{"Comments": "Writer was generously provided with ARC in exchange for my honest review: This book is comprised of a series of short stories, all of them intertwined on the larger scale. A formal dinner party at Signore Mario Amatore\u2019s restaurant inspires its participants to recall various erotic interludes preceding the event (and allowing us,<---M> the readers</---M>, to see how everyone is connected in some way).<---F> And Holy</---F>. Hell. These were not your run-of-the-mill erotic stories. Sillman writes beautifully, the attention Writer was generously provided with ARC in exchange for my honest review: This book is comprised of a series of short stories, all of them intertwined on the larger scale. A formal dinner party at Signore Mario Amatore\u2019s restaurant inspires its participants to recall various erotic interludes preceding the event (and allowing us, the readers, to see how everyone is connected in some way). And Holy. Hell. These were not your run-of-the-mill erotic stories. Sillman writes beautifully, the attention to detail is magnificent, and the way everything is woven together is quite an impressive feat. Not only that, the narratives are so intimate and personal that at times, it felt straight up voyeuristic to be reading this. Additionally, some of the stories are so dark and intense they really do require a bit of a break, as another reviewer pointed out. This was a really different read for me when it comes to the erotica genre. The way each story manages to combine eloquent prose and impressively naughty language makes the entire book feel like a peephole, with us, the reader, as the Peeping Tom. Sinfully delicious read! 5 stars!!! ...more That was hands-down the most erotic book I have ever read. And I read a lot. <---A>James Sillwood</---A> created a beautiful mosaic of short stories weave together beautifully. Each story carries his own color, flavor and feel. Some are dark and has a sort of film-noir kind of vibe, some are steamy hot, and some are so fragile and gentle that it brings tears to your eyes. But all of them with no exception are extremely erotic, and very well written. It's very tricky to write sex without making it smutty, you ne That was hands-down the most erotic book I have ever read. And I read a lot. James Sillwood created a beautiful mosaic of short stories weave together beautifully. Each story carries his own color, flavor and feel. Some are dark and has a sort of film-noir kind of vibe, some are steamy hot, and some are so fragile and gentle that it brings tears to your eyes. But all of them with no exception are extremely erotic, and very well written. It's very tricky to write sex without making it smutty, you need to stimulate the heart and brain of the reader before aiming to the lower parts of his body, having said that many books that I've read misses that and turning out to be written porn. It's even harder to do when you're writing a short story, because than you are limited and have to connect with the reader in not so many words. That is exactly what I felt in this book, it just works magic on you. James is managing to bring you from zero to hundred in a very short time and he never misses. Every reader can find some of his darkest fantasies forming to a story in that book, without any shame or apologies .My personal favorites were the garage scene and the Amazon lady. This book is a piece of art and a must read. Be advised though, that you won't be able to finish it in one go\u2026 that book requires pauses to get yourself together . ...more 3,5 Stars I received this book directly from James in return for a review. Before I contacted James I noticed that Amatore\u2019s Restaurant had a number of high-score reviews and I was intrigued. It is true- there are a lot of explicit scenes described in quite a detail for each of the characters and there are many characters! Each have their own story to tell. I must say, as I came towards the end of the book I was expecting something explosive to happen because a lot of the characters were in one way 3,5 Stars I received this book directly from James in return for a review. Before I contacted James I noticed that Amatore\u2019s Restaurant had a number of high-score reviews and I was intrigued. It is true- there are a lot of explicit scenes described in quite a detail for each of the characters and there are many characters! Each have their own story to tell. I must say, as I came towards the end of the book I was expecting something explosive to happen because a lot of the characters were in one way or another somewhat involved. For example I wanted to see a conclusion to Freya\u2019s story who had an imaginary \u201cfriend\u201d Ophelia\u2026 I was wondering if Freya indeed was an absolute psycho who had killed people and if her lesbian partner Ana was in danger? Another of the characters who peaked my interest was Pierre, a waiter at the restaurant. He just didn\u2019t give a flying and had somewhat of a shady life. In this book you won\u2019t find the fairy tale endings, the unconditional love. What you will find is a lot of simple humans, acting by their whims, jealousies, revenge\u2026 Quite realistic, in this sense. So, while there is a lot of erotic moments, I believe James has done quite a job creating such a myriad of different characters with their own absolutely insanely mind blowing stories and then have them all come together in that restaurant\u2026 To be honest, to this moment, I am not entirely sure what it is I make of the whole book\u2026 I seem to be trying to find a deeper meaning to all this and all I can come up with is- yes, we are all petty humans driven by one act, and one act only\u2026 ...more <+++>Amatore's Restaurant</+++> is a delicious, provocative and intriguing glimpse into the lives of several sets of characters who are brought together for a joint purpose and secretly or indirectly connected by their emotional pasts and alluring escapades. This book delves into a series of vignettes introducing the reader to the intimate inner worlds of these characters. The scenes are explicit in nature, but this is necessary to understand the motives, desires and human needs of these characters -- male <+++>Amatore's Restaurant</+++> is a delicious, provocative and intriguing glimpse into the lives of several sets of characters who are brought together for a joint purpose and secretly or indirectly connected by their emotional pasts and alluring escapades. This book delves into a series of vignettes introducing the reader to the intimate inner worlds of these characters. The scenes are explicit in nature, but this is necessary to understand the motives, desires and human needs of these characters -- male and female. I was impressed with Mr. Sill wood's ability to get inside the heads of both genders, and do each of them justice. I also enjoyed being privy to the inner webs of these characters; this dance. I highly recommend this book -- not merely for titillation, but for the closer examination of the complexities of physical and emotional human relationships; the gray areas. I love how he brought together such deeply veiled people with only a small degree of separation between them. A lovely, enthralling, arousing and jarring read. ...more I love the format of this novel. What a great idea, combining several short vignettes to creative a cohesive story...definitely a different read for me. What I loved the most was the character development. In a short span, Sillwood gives plenty of personality to each character, creating and intriguing cast of sexy diverse individuals who spin erotic tales from pretty much every avenue one would expect from an erotic read. Each short was every bit as naughty and sassy as the next and there was abs I love the format of this novel. What a great idea, combining several short vignettes to creative a cohesive story...definitely a different read for me. What I loved the most was the character development. In a short span, Sillwood gives plenty of personality to each character, creating and intriguing cast of sexy diverse individuals who spin erotic tales from pretty much every avenue one would expect from an erotic read. Each short was every bit as naughty and sassy as the next and there was absolutely no shortages of surprise and intrigue. I had many jaw-dropping moments and a few moments where I had to put the book down to process what I just read. I love a good erotic read that makes me feel a bit dirty while reading it...this book did exactly that and then some. Definitely a unique read in the erotic genre and one worth every flip of the page. ...more This is a very well written story and the characters were just amazing and the details were amazingly described. The story just sucks you in. Each story has its own magic and they all managed to entertain me until the very end. The erotic scenes are very sensual and exciting to read. It was the first time I read in this genre and the book made me wonder why I have never tried it before. Sillwood managed to keep my on edge through its wit, sexiness, and humor. As a woman, I was pleasantly surpris This is a very well written story and the characters were just amazing and the details were amazingly described. The story just sucks you in. Each story has its own magic and they all managed to entertain me until the very end. The erotic scenes are very sensual and exciting to read. It was the first time I read in this genre and the book made me wonder why I have never tried it before. Sillwood managed to keep my on edge through its wit, sexiness, and humor. As a woman, I was pleasantly surprised of how well the women are portrayed by a male writer. I loved it! ...more I believe the author has just about covered the seven deadly sins in this skilfully entwined story, full of entertaining characters that reveals their darkest secrets and sexual encounters through memories and the affairs of the guests and the staff of the restaurant. Where one woman admits killing her husband while having sex, by sitting on his face and smothering him with love. There are so many erotic characters that are masterfully put together it keeps you wondering what could they possibly I believe the author has just about covered the seven deadly sins in this skilfully entwined story, full of entertaining characters that reveals their darkest secrets and sexual encounters through memories and the affairs of the guests and the staff of the restaurant. Where one woman admits killing her husband while having sex, by sitting on his face and smothering him with love. There are so many erotic characters that are masterfully put together it keeps you wondering what could they possibly get up to in the next chapter. ...more This is a big strange erotic novel. It features 23 vignettes about different characters who are linked together by a dinner party at a London restaurant. The vignettes are all erotic encounters and they cover some truly diverse territory. A lot of the sex is very dirty indeed. I was reminded of other literary erotica such as the Story of the Eye (Georges Bataille) and Delta of Venus (Anais Nin). This is a complex and ambitious novel, and it was great to read something so fresh and original. Howev This is a big strange erotic novel. It features 23 vignettes about different characters who are linked together by a dinner party at a London restaurant. The vignettes are all erotic encounters and they cover some truly diverse territory. A lot of the sex is very dirty indeed. I was reminded of other literary erotica such as the Story of the Eye (Georges Bataille) and Delta of Venus (Anais Nin). This is a complex and ambitious novel, and it was great to read something so fresh and original. However the novel doesn\u2019t succeed in everything it wants to do. It feels very rough and raw in a few areas. The biggest problem I had was that despite many bridging scenes the book still feels like a collection of short stories rather than a whole novel. We are introduced to new characters in each story and mostly they don\u2019t do much outside of their own story. It\u2019s hard to remember who they all are. Is there going to be some outrageous sex party in the final chapters that will integrate all of the characters? Sadly not. The ending is very abrupt and there\u2019s no climax (surely there should be a huge climax?). There are frequent changes of perspective within chapters. The perspective shifts from character to character and moves between the first and the third person. I felt this made it unnecessarily difficult to follow the story. Another curiosity is that some of the sex scenes end almost as soon as they begin. It\u2019s almost as if they were censored. I found this a little bit unsatisfying in a couple of cases. Other scenes go into extreme pornographic detail. I would have preferred a consistent tone across the entire book. My favourite stories were towards the end of the book. I liked the Belle Charente story, where a young man enters into a dangerous relationship with his uncle\u2019s sexy and slightly mad wife. I also liked the Masquerade story, where a sexy landlady seduces a younger male tenant in exchange for extending the rent. In these stories I cared about the characters and I wasn\u2019t just waiting for the sex to happen. One chapter in particular I found rather unpleasant. In the story Bodywork, a woman apparently unsatisfied with her husband, enters into an encounter with a mechanic. The woman seems to want to degrade herself. The mechanic films her while he penetrates her every orifice, spreads banana yoghurt on her and threatens her with a dog. The mechanic also overcharges her for work on her car. It\u2019s unclear what was motivating this woman. There was no indication that she found the man sexually attractive, and why would she allow herself to be filmed if she wanted to keep the affair a secret? This one was really unsexy. I liked Amatore\u2019s Restaurant. It is a bold piece of literary erotica. However it probably needs more work in order to be the best it can be. ...more I received a copy of this novel in return for an honest review First off let me say this, Amatore's Restaurant has some truly beautiful language. The descriptions are very well written. I am giving this novel 4 stars because the story lines, characters and back ground were brilliant. However it did take some time to get used to the writing style. The story is in third person, but the characters thoughts are all first person and well.... here's an example: The traffic was clear until she reached th I received a copy of this novel in return for an honest review First off let me say this, Amatore's Restaurant has some truly beautiful language. The descriptions are very well written. I am giving this novel 4 stars because the story lines, characters and back ground were brilliant. However it did take some time to get used to the writing style. The story is in third person, but the characters thoughts are all first person and well.... here's an example: The traffic was clear until she reached the Watford by-pass. When she agreed to watch their place, Jake and Ashley definitely said they would be back in time for the dinner on Wednesday. Why does this always happen? Why, whenever I do someone a favour, do they always take advantage? If it wasn't for Duke and Fizz, I'd refuse. Of course, Jake knows I wouldn't neglect the dogs. What a hassle! I also wasn't a fan of the cover art. So those were my only complaints, after I got over the unusual writing style choice the storylines sucked me in and didn't let go. This is a very erotic novel, so if you don't like erotica you need to skip this, because there is sex and it is hot. The story starts with a powerful female who knows what she wants and goes out and gets it. The second chapter has two women lovers, an unfaithful husband and a bit that includes a school girl uniform. Each chapter is is the different recollections of past sexual encounters by members of the Recreative Theatre Company as they celebrate at Ristorante Amatore. This is not an erotica about some subservient female doing whatever a man wants. Quite the reverse. There are many sexual encounters with many characters. The author writes about these characters and the places they live and visit as if these are real people and real places. This is a very sensual novel, read it with someone that already makes you think naughty thoughts to make the experience extra spicy. Like this? Find more at ...more I can't recommend this book highly enough! From page one I was gripped. If you like lots of interesting characters and enjoy working out what makes people tick, this book is for you. Each chapter tells of a different character and their story. There is lots of erotic content covering different types of sexual activity, but don't read it for just that alone. There is lots of detail about the characters and they are very interesting. This is the most erotic book I have read, there is lesbian sex, t I can't recommend this book highly enough! From page one I was gripped. If you like lots of interesting characters and enjoy working out what makes people tick, this book is for you. Each chapter tells of a different character and their story. There is lots of erotic content covering different types of sexual activity, but don't read it for just that alone. There is lots of detail about the characters and they are very interesting. This is the most erotic book I have read, there is lesbian sex, threesomes and straight sex and S&M but there's a lot more than sex, some of the stories are in different countries and lots of the characters come from different places. This book is about the people who are acting in a play together and they meet up for dinner at Amatore's restaurant. The staff at the restaurant come into the story too and some are involved with the actors at the dinner. My favourite story is the one about the twins who come to stay with Richard and Colette. I like this subject anyway, because there are twins in my family. I also like The Garden Centre, Lucy is funny and this story made me laugh. She certainly gets what she wants with Joran, the sexy Swedish gardener. There is lots of humour in this book, I think Pierre the waiter is funny too, he hangs around the restaurant, hates his job and the guests. Pierre has his own story called Blind Man's Bluff and I like this story because he's conned when he thinks he's doing the tricking! I have just finished reading this book and am still thinking about the people and what happens to them. I hope there is going to be a follow up! \u00a9 2014 Microsoft Terms Privacy & cookies Developers English (United Kingdom) ...more Literary erotica? This is an odd mix, I admired the author for the attempt, but I'm not sure this book would appeal to fans of either erotica or literary fiction. The style is 100% literary, a dinner at a restaurant weaves the lives of guests and staff through past encounters of a sexual nature. Each chapter focuses on a different character and a specific period of usually a few days in their past involving sexual encounters, most are M/F, some are F/F and many are someone sordid, temporary, or ot Literary erotica? This is an odd mix, I admired the author for the attempt, but I'm not sure this book would appeal to fans of either erotica or literary fiction. The style is 100% literary, a dinner at a restaurant weaves the lives of guests and staff through past encounters of a sexual nature. Each chapter focuses on a different character and a specific period of usually a few days in their past involving sexual encounters, most are M/F, some are F/F and many are someone sordid, temporary, or otherwise lacking in affection although this is by no means universal. I did get lost as to how the various characters were related after 20+ different stories had been told, and frankly I did stop caring. I'm more of a fan of erotica, I love significant steam in my reading matter, but this didn't hit that button for me at all. Its very unusual for me to want to bypass sex scenes, but I did in this book,probably because I didn't feel connected to any of the characters. Yes, sex was described, a lot, but no tingles I'm afraid, and I found myself looking at the page count to go on several occasions, its a very long book, over 300 pages, which sets it outside the normal erotic range by a huge amount, but not the literary genre. For the right reader, this is a well written look at human interaction and connections through sex, cleverly put together and of literary merit. ...more Don't be fooled into thinking this is just an erotic book. It is so much more, involving complex, well developed and totally believable characters in a variety of different situations and settings. The idea of having all the actors from the theatre company meeting up for the dinner at Amatore's restaurant is such a clever one as the characters are brought together and have the opportunity to interact with each other. The staff at the restaurant are also involved in the story, sometimes interacti Don't be fooled into thinking this is just an erotic book. It is so much more, involving complex, well developed and totally believable characters in a variety of different situations and settings. The idea of having all the actors from the theatre company meeting up for the dinner at Amatore's restaurant is such a clever one as the characters are brought together and have the opportunity to interact with each other. The staff at the restaurant are also involved in the story, sometimes interacting with the guests. This is a very original book containing lots of different themes, even a murder is hinted at. There is plenty going on in these stories, lots of secrets and unresolved mysteries. Very well written, containing plenty of humour which I like in a novel, but also containing plenty of intrigue. This book is full of surprises and will keep you guessing until the end. People are shown behaving badly, using trickery and deception and taking advantage,betraying those closest to them. At the same time there is kindness, generosity and love. This is essentially a novel about human behaviour and relationships. This deserves to be widely read and I cannot recommend this highly enough. If you're looking for an original and fascinating read, this is for you. I'm still thinking about the characters and their lives. ...more A vast array of characters meet together for dinner at a restaurant. The links between the guests appear tentative, loosely formed around a theatre production company and their various roles with this company. Then, as the story progresses we see there are some who have met in the past, some who have been involved in the pastor had affairs in the past, and others who are destined to be involved in the future and leave the restaurant together, forsaking their previous partners. The majority of th A vast array of characters meet together for dinner at a restaurant. The links between the guests appear tentative, loosely formed around a theatre production company and their various roles with this company. Then, as the story progresses we see there are some who have met in the past, some who have been involved in the pastor had affairs in the past, and others who are destined to be involved in the future and leave the restaurant together, forsaking their previous partners. The majority of the book is a retelling of each person's tale and each of these tales contain erotic memories - more or less steamy, more or less compelling, and exhibiting a vast variety of settings and sexual tendencies. The erotic elements were well written and convincing. The rest of the book, where the reader pieces together the links between the characters, reminded me a little of the style of an Agatha Christie - where the clarity is only revealed at the end. I think this book is a difficult act to pull off because the author is blending elements of romance, erotica and a more literary style. I like all of those elements - so it worked for me. I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest, non-reciprocal review. ...more Amatore\u2019s Restaurant gives a sultry peek into the lives of a large group of individuals connected through a small theater group. The group meets for dinner at Amatore\u2019s and that is where the \u2018party\u2019 starts. Through flashbacks we journey through snippets of each of the character\u2019s lives, many of whom are interconnected in some way or another. The snippets are all sexual in nature and are extremely imaginative \u2013 making me feel almost like a peeping tom at times! My favorite piece was the chapter t Amatore\u2019s Restaurant gives a sultry peek into the lives of a large group of individuals connected through a small theater group. The group meets for dinner at Amatore\u2019s and that is where the \u2018party\u2019 starts. Through flashbacks we journey through snippets of each of the character\u2019s lives, many of whom are interconnected in some way or another. The snippets are all sexual in nature and are extremely imaginative \u2013 making me feel almost like a peeping tom at times! My favorite piece was the chapter titled \u2018Bodywork\u2019. As I read the chapter which revolved around \u2018Jane\u2019 and a \u2018mechanic\u2019 that she encounters I found myself wanting to find out more about these characters. Actually there were several chapters that made me feel that way. So many times I found myself saying \u2018wow, this chapter could\u2019ve been made into its own book/short story and I think that says a lot for this author. Mr. Sillwood clearly has a lot of talent as well as a very vivid imagination! Well done! *ARC kindly provided by the author for an honest review.* ...more Amatore's Restaurant is an intriguing collection of erotic vignettes, centered around a closing dinner at Ristorante di Amatore for London's Recreative Theatre Company. In a divergent and distinctive contrast from what we've come to expect in the erotic genre, Sillwood has written a compilation of sketches that simply peeks into the humanity of each character. There is a lot of sex, and it is exceptionally well written, but Sillwood's characters are well fleshed out and layered enough to make th Amatore's Restaurant is an intriguing collection of erotic vignettes, centered around a closing dinner at Ristorante di Amatore for London's Recreative Theatre Company. In a divergent and distinctive contrast from what we've come to expect in the erotic genre, Sillwood has written a compilation of sketches that simply peeks into the humanity of each character. There is a lot of sex, and it is exceptionally well written, but Sillwood's characters are well fleshed out and layered enough to make them feel authentic. The style of the book as a whole is reminiscent of Steinbeck's The Wayward Bus (although the content certainly is not) in the sense that, while reaching into a moment of time with each character, it does not come together in the end as one might expect, pushing Amatore's Restaurant into as much the genre of literary fiction as it is erotic. I would recommend this book to anyone looking for an extraordinary erotic read with real (and most often abject) emotion, in a classical literary format. ...more I love to read sex books. This book is a smorgasbord of sex stories. That makes it even more interesting. The writing is terrific, and fully explores and encompasses a very difficult story while providing loads of detail. The premise for this book is so simple that I'm surprised I didn't come up with it. It's a party of people eating dinner at a restaurant. Each of them discusses their previous sexual liaisons. Each story has my full attention, whether or not it's my preferred genre. That's beca I love to read sex books. This book is a smorgasbord of sex stories. That makes it even more interesting. The writing is terrific, and fully explores and encompasses a very difficult story while providing loads of detail. The premise for this book is so simple that I'm surprised I didn't come up with it. It's a party of people eating dinner at a restaurant. Each of them discusses their previous sexual liaisons. Each story has my full attention, whether or not it's my preferred genre. That's because it's simply delicious to be a fly on that wall!!! The author tackles Erotica, but Erotica has so many unique subgenres that it is really difficult for an author to fully explore and relate each subgenre in an interesting fashion. I'm really amazed at the author's ability to diversify in such a way. The reader gets a solid dose of many different kinds of sex. I love all of the sex. I love this book!! ...more As I said in my reviews of the three books, the erotic scenes in this are mind blowing! Nothing is left to the imagination. There's voyeurism, threesomes, group sex, lesbians, straight sex and bondage. A little bit of everything!Lots of good stories, the ones that stand out for me include Blind Mans Bluff, featuring my favourite character, Pierre,Bodywork featuring Jane and her mechanic, with a clever twist at the end, and La Belle Charente in which the evil aunt Nicole takes advantage of the in As I said in my reviews of the three books, the erotic scenes in this are mind blowing! Nothing is left to the imagination. There's voyeurism, threesomes, group sex, lesbians, straight sex and bondage. A little bit of everything!Lots of good stories, the ones that stand out for me include Blind Mans Bluff, featuring my favourite character, Pierre,Bodywork featuring Jane and her mechanic, with a clever twist at the end, and La Belle Charente in which the evil aunt Nicole takes advantage of the innocent Dale.I enjoyed all of the stories and found it easy to picture the characters. Some of the stories have a darker side. Masquerade, for instance, where Colette is driven to desperate lengths, and Postscript where foul play is hinted at. One of the most interesting characters is Freya. She appears to be completely mad but also very sly and scheming.Just like Nicole, she's totally unpredictable. A great read! ...more Amatore\u2019s Restaurant was a beautiful compilation of sexual liaisons. This is not simply an erotic thriller; it\u2019s a tale that weaves relationships between characters and develops complex backgrounds (Pierre was particularly fun). It is clear the author put a lot of thought and time into bringing his characters to life, and not a plot hole to be found. I simply loved his style of writing \u2013 it was detailed, descriptive, and professionally well done. How pleased I was to come across a writer who und Amatore\u2019s Restaurant was a beautiful compilation of sexual liaisons. This is not simply an erotic thriller; it\u2019s a tale that weaves relationships between characters and develops complex backgrounds (Pierre was particularly fun). It is clear the author put a lot of thought and time into bringing his characters to life, and not a plot hole to be found. I simply loved his style of writing \u2013 it was detailed, descriptive, and professionally well done. How pleased I was to come across a writer who understands the English language! The book is a full-length novel and pays well deserved attention to the story; nothing feels rushed or forced. I enjoyed that this story took some thought on the reader\u2019s part. Everything wasn\u2019t just laid out and outlined for them. The dinner theatre group was such a unique idea, and I feel as though few ideas are left unexplored or untouched in this narrative. A great read, and I\u2019m looking forward to seeing more! ...more I found Amatore's Restaurant to be a very cleverly written in the way it was like a series of short stories but all characters were connected somehow. I enjoyed reading everyone's stories and the sex scenes were very erotic. It did take a bit of concentrating to try and tie all the characters together but I enjoyed it when I worked out how they were all linked. They all had a variety of very different sexual experience to share with us, and let's just say we go almost everything you could imagin I found Amatore's Restaurant to be a very cleverly written in the way it was like a series of short stories but all characters were connected somehow. I enjoyed reading everyone's stories and the sex scenes were very erotic. It did take a bit of concentrating to try and tie all the characters together but I enjoyed it when I worked out how they were all linked. They all had a variety of very different sexual experience to share with us, and let's just say we go almost everything you could imagine! I was hoping for a 'WOW' moment at the end that tied everything off quite nicely but found that was missing and the ending was a bit bland. Overall a good book if you want some erotica! I received a complimentary copy from the author in exchange for my honest review. ...more Love the cover on this book!The sex scenes are explicit and well done and the characters are interesting and well developed. My favourite story is called La Belle Charente and is about Dale who goes to stay with his Aunt and Uncle in France. He soon realises his Aunt is mad, I think she is a psychopath.I liked the story Masquerade and I didn't expect the ending at all.I also liked Video Games which is about Colin who decides to watch a porn film but ends up watching his wife with two men.Lots of Love the cover on this book!The sex scenes are explicit and well done and the characters are interesting and well developed. My favourite story is called La Belle Charente and is about Dale who goes to stay with his Aunt and Uncle in France. He soon realises his Aunt is mad, I think she is a psychopath.I liked the story Masquerade and I didn't expect the ending at all.I also liked Video Games which is about Colin who decides to watch a porn film but ends up watching his wife with two men.Lots of different stories involving people from widely differing backgrounds and made up of several nationalities.I found this to be an interesting and intriguing book. ...more I was given this book to read for an honest review\u2026..Before you pick this book up read what it\u2019s about otherwise you will be lost. \u201cThe international cast meet for the end of season dinner\u201d You have to have that in your mind set. Otherwise you will get confused. Each chapter looks at one of the \u201cmembers\u201d and then you get their story, their extremely sexy, hot story. As you put together each background and connection to the other characters you have a very erotic story. I had to take my time with I was given this book to read for an honest review\u2026..Before you pick this book up read what it\u2019s about otherwise you will be lost. \u201cThe international cast meet for the end of season dinner\u201d You have to have that in your mind set. Otherwise you will get confused. Each chapter looks at one of the \u201cmembers\u201d and then you get their story, their extremely sexy, hot story. As you put together each background and connection to the other characters you have a very erotic story. I had to take my time with this book to cool off between chapters. If you love erotic stories there is something here for everyone! Take your time and savor the heat! ...more I didn't know what to expect when I started reading this book and I was pleasantly surprised. The book is like a collection of short stories and the characters meet at a restaurant for an end of season dinner. Each remembers a sexual experience that has happened to them in the past. This book contains explicit sex scenes, however there is far more than erotic fiction. The characters are interesting and well-developed and the stories are fascinating such as Nicole in La Belle Charente and Freya i I didn't know what to expect when I started reading this book and I was pleasantly surprised. The book is like a collection of short stories and the characters meet at a restaurant for an end of season dinner. Each remembers a sexual experience that has happened to them in the past. This book contains explicit sex scenes, however there is far more than erotic fiction. The characters are interesting and well-developed and the stories are fascinating such as Nicole in La Belle Charente and Freya in The Waitress' Bus-Stop. I finished this book wanting to know more. ...more Very original. The Amatore's Restaurant in is Kensington, our \u2018cast\u2019 is a group of people involved in the theatre, and we join them all for dinner. through each character we explore their relationships and encounters with each other through recollections of past encounters \u2013 there is also a murder! James Sillwood touches on some deep and sexual subjects, betrayal, lust and love which he guide us through, via letters, recollections, confessions, discussion and actions. This is a good read and I wo Very original. The Amatore's Restaurant in is Kensington, our \u2018cast\u2019 is a group of people involved in the theatre, and we join them all for dinner. through each character we explore their relationships and encounters with each other through recollections of past encounters \u2013 there is also a murder! James Sillwood touches on some deep and sexual subjects, betrayal, lust and love which he guide us through, via letters, recollections, confessions, discussion and actions. This is a good read and I would recommend it. ...more Amatore's Restaurant is populated with a complex cast of characters, and each chapter is its own short story, with every short story revealing a highly charged, sometimes kinky, and always imaginative erotic setting. Via the author's skillful prose, we learn that the characters are all tied together, some through their involvement with the theater troupe, some through familial ties, some through past sexual liaisons. And speaking of the sexual liaisons, there's enough variety in this book to ple Amatore's Restaurant is populated with a complex cast of characters, and each chapter is its own short story, with every short story revealing a highly charged, sometimes kinky, and always imaginative erotic setting. Via the author's skillful prose, we learn that the characters are all tied together, some through their involvement with the theater troupe, some through familial ties, some through past sexual liaisons. And speaking of the sexual liaisons, there's enough variety in this book to please every palate. You won't go home hungry from Amatore's Restaurant! ...more *I received a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review* This book was very interesting. You are able to learn of different characters at every turn. They all revolve around the restaurant though, and then you are thrust into one of their memories. There really isn't any main characters because every chapter is a new story that ties itself to the restaurant. Every chapter also had its own steamy scene to contend with. Everyone also just so happens to have their own dirty little secret. If you are looking for an extremely erotic read then this is the book for you. This story was a collective book of short erotic stories, some dark and other's wildly entertaining. I guarantee there isn't a fantasy that hasn't been touched on in this well written and original tale. Amatore\u2019s Restaurant is by James Sillwood. It is erotica and is meant for adults only. It is a different book and I liked the concept but without the erotica. In time, it is only one evening; but in actuality a longer time. In London, the Recreative Theatre Company had just finished its season of Night of the Portenos and the company had set up a dinner for the actors and others at the Ristorante Di Amatore. As the waiters and waitresses and others set up for the dinner and get their assignment Amatore\u2019s Restaurant is by James Sillwood. It is erotica and is meant for adults only. It is a different book and I liked the concept but without the erotica. In time, it is only one evening; but in actuality a longer time. In London, the Recreative Theatre Company had just finished its season of Night of the Portenos and the company had set up a dinner for the actors and others at the Ristorante Di Amatore. As the waiters and waitresses and others set up for the dinner and get their assignments, the chef is ready to begin cooking. The chef is Monsieur Antoine Petel from a restaurant in Paris who has come to help with the French dishes that night. He is evidently a renowned chef who Mario Amatore, the proprietor of the restaurant thought was definitely worth the money to get. Two of the waitresses are having a discussion in the cool room. When they finish, they attempt to get out the door; but the handle is broken. Finally, they manage to get the door open and get out. The handle is placed on a sack of asparagus and is later put under the asparagus. The \u201cwhy\u201d taunts and teases you throughout the book. As the guests arrive, they are given champagne and encouraged to talk to each other. They divide into small groups which eventually change; but the first grouping is of people who seem to have feelings for each other but it may be deceiving. As we are introduced to each of them, they go back in time and remember when they first met one of the other visitors. Each then proceeds to remember a sexual seduction and scene concerning themselves and another person at the party. James Sillwood gets very creative in describing these activities to the point where you can visualize what is going on. Although I did enjoy his techniques of writing and could easily see what he was doing in giving various seduction vignettes, I could have done without the explicit sexual activities. I ended up skimming the last part of the book because of the sexual content. ...more An extraordinary erotic read based on authentic characters What a book! The Recreative Theatre Company actors and others meet for the closing dinner at Ristorante di Amatore. In each of the 23 short stories we are introduced to one of the guests, as they remember when they first met one of the other visitors. Each story is unique in the sense of the character, the setting, and the type of sexual desires. The characters are all tied together in one way or another, but this very special dinner will An extraordinary erotic read based on authentic characters What a book! The Recreative Theatre Company actors and others meet for the closing dinner at Ristorante di Amatore. In each of the 23 short stories we are introduced to one of the guests, as they remember when they first met one of the other visitors. Each story is unique in the sense of the character, the setting, and the type of sexual desires. The characters are all tied together in one way or another, but this very special dinner will also influence some of their future choices of a sexual nature\u2026 Although there is a lot of explicit sex I don\u2019t see this novel as porn. I see it as extremely well written erotica; each intriguing character has its own story and so you can understand the underlying motivation for every sexual fantasy. Some stories are just very hot, some have a dark vibe, some are tender... With the exception of M/M sex, practically all other manifestations of human sexuality are described. The characters are richly developed and you feel as if you were in the situation with them. You start to understand that so called \u201cdirty secrets\u201d they share are not really dirty, but barely alternations of our natural and normal human experience (there are some dark exceptions in the book, though). This novel is constantly surprising; it activates not only your body, but also your brain. It is extremely well written and you virtually feel the hands of a skilled writer. Sillwood\u2019s unique exploration of human sexuality makes you want more! I\u2019m looking forward to reading other books by this author. Which one will be next? ...more The book \u2018Amatore\u2019s Restaurant\u2019 deals with an actors' troupe meeting for a year-end event at an upscale restaurant in London. Gradually, throughout the book, we learn who these people are, and how their lives are intertwined. We quickly find out that the acting doesn\u2019t stop for the characters, only that the stage has shifted from the theater to the hardwood floor at Amatore\u2019s. It is a unique book in that we are treated to exotic places all over the world: Marseilles, Berlin, Rome, London, Amster The book \u2018Amatore\u2019s Restaurant\u2019 deals with an actors' troupe meeting for a year-end event at an upscale restaurant in London. Gradually, throughout the book, we learn who these people are, and how their lives are intertwined. We quickly find out that the acting doesn\u2019t stop for the characters, only that the stage has shifted from the theater to the hardwood floor at Amatore\u2019s. It is a unique book in that we are treated to exotic places all over the world: Marseilles, Berlin, Rome, London, Amsterdam...all with a Hollywood flair: actors, artists, models, with sexual relations being the central theme in each chapter. Combined with a fluent style of writing, the story makes for a good read, although the editing leaves a little to be desired at some points. The characters, although many, make up for that. This is a 21st century Vanity Fair, and we are treated to the joys and miseries of the lot. Without revealing too much here, there are some very clever twists, like Hermana and who (s)he really was, and Colin\u2019s home movies. That\u2019s literally the spice in \u2018Amatore\u2019s Restaurant\u2019. Three or four chapters in, it becomes a little predictable in that we know there is going to be a steamy sex scene awaiting. To me personally, it was not so much the sex scenes that caught my attention, but the writing itself. Distant places are described very well, and the narrative is compelling. Sometimes it is a memory that tells the story, more is revealed in various conversations at dinner. I think it\u2019s a solid four stars. The only fault here is the inconsistent editing and sudden changes in perspective that threw me off. ...more Unique literary erotica with multiple explicit sexual liaisons to tantalize or excite your senses and desires. A provocative palette of sex, secrets and assignations are to be found within the pages of this unique work of literary erotica. Do not be mislead by the languorous opening to the incredibly sexy Amatore's Restaurant by James Sillwood. A sexy book, mostly set in London, you will rapidly fall into this book and live vicariously through the funny, spontaneous, and sexy intertwined lives o Unique literary erotica with multiple explicit sexual liaisons to tantalize or excite your senses and desires. A provocative palette of sex, secrets and assignations are to be found within the pages of this unique work of literary erotica. Do not be mislead by the languorous opening to the incredibly sexy Amatore's Restaurant by James Sillwood. A sexy book, mostly set in London, you will rapidly fall into this book and live vicariously through the funny, spontaneous, and sexy intertwined lives of Cordelia, Chiara, Lucia, Mario, young dancer Emily, bad-boy temporary waiter Pierre, a mysterious old man feigning blindness and his young female consort, and many, many more. SPOILER ALERT: In one flashback we learn that up-and-coming actress Cordelia, tired of her nonexistent love life, determines to take love matters into her own hands\u2026 and quickly manages to turn a boring corporate hookup into a deliciously naughty sexual role playing, a game of be dominated and \u201cpromise to be good\u201d and you will be rewarded. The end of that scene is very much a turnabouts fair play AKA reversal of the sexes. Beautifully descriptive passages, including multiple flashbacks for multiple male and female characters, details of locations, character clothes, and more, add to the author\u2019s unique prose style. NOTE: In this graphic story, there are multiple explicit sexual liaisons and drifting sexual explorations or relationships that are lesbian, heterosexual, and likely non-binary. If you like ensemble character literary erotica you will love this book. ...more<---C>James Sillwood</---C>", "Title": "Amatore's Restaurant"},
