{"Comments": "UPDATE the new version of <+++>Bloodlines</+++> is now available from Amazon.com.<---F> Kindle version also avaiable now</---F>. This is actually my own book, so its not fair to give it a rating. This book had such great reviews I purposefully sought it out when major book sellers,<---M> such as B&N</---M>, didn't carry it. I should have taken that for a sign. My biggest gripes about this book are 1) a real editor needs to proof this book (<---B>a lot!</---B>) and 2) the author needs to do a much better job on researching her facts. For my first issue I will say the flow, writing, building of the story, etc. is horrid. Thoughts are not presented clearly or reasonably as she jumps all around in her conversation This book had such great reviews I purposefully sought it out when major book sellers, such as B&N, didn't carry it. I should have taken that for a sign. My biggest gripes about this book are 1) a real editor needs to proof this book (a lot!) and 2) the author needs to do a much better job on researching her facts. For my first issue I will say the flow, writing, building of the story, etc. is horrid. Thoughts are not presented clearly or reasonably as she jumps all around in her conversation topics between the characters with no indication or background for transition (there is so much more wrong with the grammar and flow that if I put it all into words I would have a book for editing this book). Any decent editor would have caught all this and had the author rewrite until it was 90% better. Had this happened it could have been a really great - as it is, it reads as rough (very rough) draft. My second issue has to do with the very apparent fact that the author is English, as is the main character and her close friend, so it makes sense that these two characters to speak the Queen's English - BUT NOT THE REST OF THE CHARACTERS in the book. The local characters are supposed to have been born and raised in Massachusetts and yet their grammar and mannerisms are also very British/English. Americans do not refer to trash bags (or garbage bags) as \"bin bags\" (pg. 137), we don't say \"rubbish\" (pg.127), Piss Off (pg. 141), Americans don't go around kissing each other\u2019s cheeks . . . the list of errors is endless. I kept wondering where the book was taking place because I knew she wrote that they were in Salem, Massachusetts and yet everyone speaks and act as though they are from Great Britain. I forced myself to endure hoping the book would get better but I finally gave up when I reached chapter 16 - it's just too awful to continue. My best suggestion would be for the author to republish the book after a lot of editing. In the end I realized all the great reviews must have come from family and friends. Not a true representation of the quality of the book. The author definitely has potential so keep writing, keep learning and find a good editor. ...more This is my Daughters first book in a trilogy. I have read it 5 times and each time is as good as the first. Some people may think this is a biest review. But if it was rubbish, believe me, i wouldnt have encouraged her to have it published. Please give it a try, you will be hooked. I hate to say anything bad about a book because I'm certain that, bad or good, the author loves it just the same and put in an equal amount of effort. I mean this only as constructive criticism. That being said, despite its 310 pages the plot feels thin to the point of transparency, every turn is predictable. The characters read as caricatures, and the main character is a blatant Mary-Sue who displays behaviour only acceptable in a young teenage girl, not a girl in her early twenties. Where was th I hate to say anything bad about a book because I'm certain that, bad or good, the author loves it just the same and put in an equal amount of effort. I mean this only as constructive criticism. That being said, despite its 310 pages the plot feels thin to the point of transparency, every turn is predictable. The characters read as caricatures, and the main character is a blatant Mary-Sue who displays behaviour only acceptable in a young teenage girl, not a girl in her early twenties. Where was this book's editor? The punctuation was ill-used to the point of distraction. There are instances where the tense changes in the same sentence. I want to finish this on a good note, so I must say that the descriptions of their surroundings were well-written, which makes me believe that Kendal can write a very good book. This just wasn't it. ...more Wow! I don't want to be mean but...how can I not?! I couldn't even get past page thirty. The writing was childish and in desperate need of editing. I felt like I was reading a ten year old's, what I did for summer vacation, homework. For example: Why would she be telling her \"best\" friend that, of course, she didn't talk to her father about her powers because he was dead. Um, yeah. Wouldn't the best friend know that? I know the author was just trying to give us some background but having Keira d Wow! I don't want to be mean but...how can I not?! I couldn't even get past page thirty. The writing was childish and in desperate need of editing. I felt like I was reading a ten year old's, what I did for summer vacation, homework. For example: Why would she be telling her \"best\" friend that, of course, she didn't talk to her father about her powers because he was dead. Um, yeah. Wouldn't the best friend know that? I know the author was just trying to give us some background but having Keira do it in dialogue with her best friend was a bad, bad choice. Yeah, sorry, if the writing is this bad the story just isn't worth it. ...more I really enjoyed this book. I was hooked from the beginning because I didn\u2019t know what Keira was or what her gift was, until I was given a hint in the first chapter. Keira is looking for answers about her past and why she is hearing voices, but soon she realizes that maybe this wasn\u2019t the wisest decision. I really liked that there was a big group of characters \u2013 all of them playing an important part to the story. I connected with each one of them. At some points the dynamic of the group reminded m I really enjoyed this book. I was hooked from the beginning because I didn\u2019t know what Keira was or what her gift was, until I was given a hint in the first chapter. Keira is looking for answers about her past and why she is hearing voices, but soon she realizes that maybe this wasn\u2019t the wisest decision. I really liked that there was a big group of characters \u2013 all of them playing an important part to the story. I connected with each one of them. At some points the dynamic of the group reminded me of \u201cThe Secret Circle\u201d by L.J. Smith \u2013 in that they care deeply for each other. At first I thought my favorite character would be Lucian \u2013 he is such a gentleman \u2013 but halfway through the book I completely fell for Tyler. He is funny and easygoing, among other things. I won\u2019t reveal more as I don\u2019t want to spoil the book for you. Every chapter was full with mystery and made me want to know more and try to figure out everything that was going on. I didn\u2019t know what to expect. There were some slow chapters and some parts I didn\u2019t think were key to the story. And I was a little confused by the way they spoke. I wasn\u2019t sure at first, if the characters were British or if the story was set in the United States or England, but once I figured it out everything began to flow in the right direction. Definitely the last third of the book was the most exciting. At the end I was nearly screaming out in frustration because it leaves you wanting more, and many questions were unanswered. I, personally, can\u2019t wait for the next installment. I laughed, and the story brought me to tears at some point. (I definitely didn\u2019t see that one coming.) I felt like I was reading something similar to the TV show Supernatural \u2013 it reminds me a lot of this show and you gotta love Supernatural, don\u2019t you? So definitely give <+++>Bloodlines</+++> a try and stick with it to the end because you won\u2019t be disappointed. ...more You guys will think I'm crazy. Bloodlines is the story of Keira, a woman who goes to Salem, Massachusetts, to discover her past while sending the story in as many unrelated directions as possible and devoting minimal time to interesting aspects. Never mind the demons hunting the main characters and the supernatural mystery going on, we have a house to paint! (Seriously, there are about three chapters devoted to that house alone) Oh joy. The plotting of this book, if it hasn't already been made app You guys will think I'm crazy. Bloodlines is the story of Keira, a woman who goes to Salem, Massachusetts, to discover her past while sending the story in as many unrelated directions as possible and devoting minimal time to interesting aspects. Never mind the demons hunting the main characters and the supernatural mystery going on, we have a house to paint! (Seriously, there are about three chapters devoted to that house alone) Oh joy. The plotting of this book, if it hasn't already been made apparant, is horrid. The story just ignores the supernatural mystery at its center for a large segment of the book. Things don't really pick up until near the end. It's quite boring, really. An occasional interesting scene (The scene where Keira takes out her anger on the people who shot one of her friends is creepy and sufficient to get a pass) keeps the book from being a total bore, but does not have nearly enough impact to keep the story afloat. But my main beef is with the characters. Let's ignore everyone save for my least favorite: Keira. Young adult authors generally write beautiful female characters, but here they tone that up to a stupid degree. AND I HAVE A PROBLEM WITH THAT. It might just be me, but I honestly enjoy reading about female characters who are below the supermodel standard of beautiful. That's fun because it makes the characters feel more real. Keira never felt like a human being... although I guess you could argue that's the point. Maybe this is nitpicking, but it just bugs me. Even ignoring that, I detest the fact that Keira seems to have no weaknesses. One of the most annoying things in books is when an author pulls something out of absolutely nowhere. In some books, this happens once or twice. In Bloodlines, EVERY SINGLE CONFLICT is resolved via this method. Keira just develops power out of nowhere with no mention of where it came from. (view spoiler) [She even COMES BACK FROM THE DEAD at one point. It's that bad. (hide spoiler) ] And, no, the other characters are not much better. So, am I going to be reading the other books in the series? Yes. Wait, what? Bloodlines is Bad. Not terrible (I've read worse) but bad. I dislike the MAIN CHARACTER. Why would I read the other books? Go into that search bar on Goodreads right now and look up the third book in the Bloodlines trilogy. It's called \"Revelations\". Look it up and read the plot synopsis. Now come back here and honestly tell me that plot synopsis is not one of the best concepts you have ever heard in your lifetime. I can't think of any way to botch that. So, because the third book sounds so awesome, I'm willing to suffer through the first two. That's my rationale. P.S. Do any of you reading this know any good literature with good heroines? It'd appreciate it if you gave me the name in a comment. ...more I very much enjoyed this book. Its a nice change from Vampires and the new Fallen angel craze that seems to be going on. I find this story to be very original. I can relate with the main Character Keira. She feels isolated and very alone at first, desperate to find out where she comes from, and to be around people who are like her. The other characters are very likeable and I do think Danny and Tyler sound rather hot. Shame they are ficticious. I dont want to spoil this book for anyone so i wont I very much enjoyed this book. Its a nice change from Vampires and the new Fallen angel craze that seems to be going on. I find this story to be very original. I can relate with the main Character Keira. She feels isolated and very alone at first, desperate to find out where she comes from, and to be around people who are like her. The other characters are very likeable and I do think Danny and Tyler sound rather hot. Shame they are ficticious. I dont want to spoil this book for anyone so i wont be going into to much detail. This book is for all ages although I expect it will be marketed to young adults. I am 33 and I loved it. I cant wait to read the next one. Hope it is out soon, I need to know whats happening. ...more I really loved this story from the start till the end; there were some slow chapters but others were so full of action that the balance was just right. The characters are great; they all have different yet in some ways similar personalities. You can never know what the next happening will be; in most of the books I can predict the outcome, villain etc. but in this story everything was a surprise or I thought something else was gonna happen. It's so good that when you reach the end of the book; y I really loved this story from the start till the end; there were some slow chapters but others were so full of action that the balance was just right. The characters are great; they all have different yet in some ways similar personalities. You can never know what the next happening will be; in most of the books I can predict the outcome, villain etc. but in this story everything was a surprise or I thought something else was gonna happen. It's so good that when you reach the end of the book; you would like to scream out in frustration that you have to wait for the second book. ...more The sentences are a little choppy, but once you get past that, this book is actually amazing. It would have scored a 5 if it werent for the choppy parts. Keira is a likeable character, I liked her very much. The other main characters are great, all with their own thoughts and opinions. I dont like disclosing much about the storyline for fear of ruining the book for others, but I know I personally cannot wait for the next book. I\u2019ve been meaning to add this review for a long time, but since I\u2019ve just had my first child, I\u2019ve not had the chance to do so until now. This book actually gets 4.5 stars from me. My gripe is the editing. However, I\u2019ve read several times there was a ruckus about this and the Author is having the book redone with another publisher. GOOD idea, because the storyline is fantastic. It\u2019s fresh, new, definitely different. As a new author, and still learning, your previous editor should have helped you I\u2019ve been meaning to add this review for a long time, but since I\u2019ve just had my first child, I\u2019ve not had the chance to do so until now. This book actually gets 4.5 stars from me. My gripe is the editing. However, I\u2019ve read several times there was a ruckus about this and the Author is having the book redone with another publisher. GOOD idea, because the storyline is fantastic. It\u2019s fresh, new, definitely different. As a new author, and still learning, your previous editor should have helped you a lot more, I do believe this has been said on another review. I am a writer myself, and when I started out I received a lot of help from my editor, she was fantastic and very supportive. This is only meant as support, not nastily, if the editor had done their job properly, I wouldn\u2019t have been able to fault this story. So best of luck with the new publisher. The story definitely shows promise. The characters all have their own personalities, which for me is great, and none of them are boring. There is more than one POV which I love, and also the author doesn\u2019t just concentrate on building backgrounds up for her two or three main characters, all of them are equally important and play a vital role in the story. I don\u2019t spoil books for others by revealing the plot line too much, so this is what I will say. Bloodlines was a quick, and very entertaining read. The characters \u2013 well \u2013 you will either love them or hate them. Some of the men in the book I wish were real, lol, very yummy!! Keira, the main character left me a little indifferent. Sometimes I love her, her wit, sarcasm and general attitude were brilliant, but other times I wanted to strangle her. I don\u2019t dislike her, and I understand why, in the story, she is how she is at the moment, but in the end, especially in a chapter called \u2018Healer\u2019 and the last few chapters of the book, she is nothing short of AMAZING. SHE is the sort of person you would want as your friend and ally. She totally kicks arse and I can\u2019t wait to see how she goes on. I have no idea what direction this story is going to go in, but I cannot wait for the next in the series, I will definitely be purchasing it. I will also be buying the new edit!! ...more Ok so to be honest, I wasn't looking forward to reading this book after seeing some of the comments on here with regards to the editing. HOWEVER. I\u2019m very glad I did, and this book is now one of my favourites of all time. The new version of this must read a lot better, since I couldn\u2019t fault the editing at all. I hate spoilers with a passion; I like to read the book for myself. So with that in mind I will simplify this as much as possible. The story follows a young girl Keira, and her friend Lil Ok so to be honest, I wasn't looking forward to reading this book after seeing some of the comments on here with regards to the editing. HOWEVER. I\u2019m very glad I did, and this book is now one of my favourites of all time. The new version of this must read a lot better, since I couldn\u2019t fault the editing at all. I hate spoilers with a passion; I like to read the book for myself. So with that in mind I will simplify this as much as possible. The story follows a young girl Keira, and her friend Lily, as they try to find out details of Keira\u2019s ancestry. However, the girls end up in the middle of something neither one of them thought was possible. They gain new friends and allies, together, they are strong. There are many frights, lots of magic, fears, romance, friendship and tears. I let my partner read this book, and she was literally in tears at some points. What was nice to see (since at the moment a lot of the heroines out there are weak willed women who seem to love being pushed about \u2013 What a load of crap!) is that Keira is head strong. She isn\u2019t afraid to use what she is to her advantage. She will fight, and not take any shit from anyone. That was one of the best things about the book. The other characters are pretty darn cool. I especially like Danny, and a character who comes in later in the book, (who my partner, I think, is in love with) Eligos. I hope we learn more about both of these in the next instalment. I would recommend this to anyone who is a lover of urban fantasy, paranormal, magic, demons etc, but most of all, to those who LIKE SOMETHING... DIFFERENT and a KICK BUTT HEROINE! ...more This book needs to win an award for originality. There are mixed reviews about this book, and some comments on the editing. I agree the sentences are choppy at times, but I urge people to look past this and actually pay attention to the storyline, since of course, we read the book for the story, the feelings you get when you read, the bond you feel with the characters, and feeling as though you are beside the character going through everything they go through. Of course if your just an editor in t This book needs to win an award for originality. There are mixed reviews about this book, and some comments on the editing. I agree the sentences are choppy at times, but I urge people to look past this and actually pay attention to the storyline, since of course, we read the book for the story, the feelings you get when you read, the bond you feel with the characters, and feeling as though you are beside the character going through everything they go through. Of course if your just an editor in the making, or wish you were, then don't read the book. I suppose your so busy looking for errors and something to moan about that you wouldn't know what the book was about once you had finished it anyway. However, if you want to feel everything i said above, then this is the book for you. Its very atmospheric, I got creeped out, I laughed out loud at some of the sarcasm, and cried like a baby at one part two. I was on the edge of my seat reading the last few chapters, I even had butterflies. Whilst you are reading you feel as though you are in the middle of a movie and everything is going on around you. This obviously is my own opinion, but if you get the chance to read this book, then do so. You wont be disappointed. Can't wait for the second one. Does anyone know when it will be coming out? ...more I really enjoyed reading this book. Right from the first chapter. The story is different to what is out there at the moment, and it makes a refreshing change. The main character, Keira, is great. Not one of these needy helpless girls I've been reading about a lot lately. She has spunk. She is fiesty, and tough. Very nice. When you read the book you feel as though you are taking every step the characters take, all of which by the way, are very likeable. I have a couple of favourites and cant wait I really enjoyed reading this book. Right from the first chapter. The story is different to what is out there at the moment, and it makes a refreshing change. The main character, Keira, is great. Not one of these needy helpless girls I've been reading about a lot lately. She has spunk. She is fiesty, and tough. Very nice. When you read the book you feel as though you are taking every step the characters take, all of which by the way, are very likeable. I have a couple of favourites and cant wait to see how the author developes their stories. I hope the next in the projected trilogy is out soon, I cannot wait to see what happens and what direction the story is going to go. ...more Fantastic first book, a bit of work needed on the editing. A fair few mistakes left in. But the storylines is great, the characters force you to love them. Looking forward to the rest of the series. I was a little slow getting into this book, but once I had read a few chapters I was caught by the mystery, the magic and, most especially, the characters. Keira is a prickly individual with quite a temper; it is rather entertaining to watch her flinging attackers left and right and into trees. Her best friend Lily, while not nearly as tough, is also no shrinking violet. She is unfailingly loyal and sweet. The contrast and friendship between them is very well done. As much as I liked watching Kei I was a little slow getting into this book, but once I had read a few chapters I was caught by the mystery, the magic and, most especially, the characters. Keira is a prickly individual with quite a temper; it is rather entertaining to watch her flinging attackers left and right and into trees. Her best friend Lily, while not nearly as tough, is also no shrinking violet. She is unfailingly loyal and sweet. The contrast and friendship between them is very well done. As much as I liked watching Keira toss people around, the real fun started when she actually talked to them. Four of them were male, young and handsome. I could immediately see the potential for a good love triangle. Jake and Lily hit it off right away, which left the leader, Lucian, the joker, Tyler, and the one she started out hating, Danny. Since I liked them all (though Danny took some warming up to) I could tell this was going to be good. The interactions between the two new girls in town and the four boys that were as close as brothers was way to much fun to watch. I found myself enjoying the teasing more than the romance. I thought that the historical aspect of the story was interesting, with the guys and Keira descendants of five people involved in the Salem witchcraft trials. It added a nice depth to the tale. The twists and turns in this book lead to fights and mysterious visitations and culminate in a shocking attack and an ending that truly earns Ms. Kendal a place on my list of Evil Authors who write cliffhangers designed to leave you begging for more....oh yes, I liked this book. You should read it for yourself. :) ...more <---A>Lindsay Anne Kendal</---A> did a fantastic job on this novel, and that took a lot for me to say, since I don't normally read this particular genre. The plot line is extremely intriguing and contains a quite unique take on the hidden history of the Salem witch trials and the resulting generational impact that the actions of those individuals originally involved had on their subsequent \"Bloodlines.\" The main characters are immediately likable and the friendships that developed will make for interesting tie Lindsay Anne Kendal did a fantastic job on this novel, and that took a lot for me to say, since I don't normally read this particular genre. The plot line is extremely intriguing and contains a quite unique take on the hidden history of the Salem witch trials and the resulting generational impact that the actions of those individuals originally involved had on their subsequent \"Bloodlines.\" The main characters are immediately likable and the friendships that developed will make for interesting ties in the next books. The action is exciting and keeps your attention, yet it is written so well that the \"gore\" factor is not necessary, therefore, it is a perfect mixture for the target audience. Although I originally read this book to determine if it was appropriate reading material for my 13 year old daughter (which it is! - guess what she is getting for Christmas?) I am hooked on the storyline now, and will definitely purchase Torment soon, and Revelations when it is finished. You know, for my daughter. ;) ...more I have to say I am team Lucian...Tyler kind of bugs the crap out of me. As for the rest of the story...hmmm....I havent read a book about that in a while so it was refreshing, although it felt like I was reading the book version on The Covenant. My only complaint is the amount of characters and the depth they lack. It seemed like they talked about Lily, the best friend more than anyone, so i hope in Torment we get to know the other characters better. And like I said, I hope it turns in to someth I have to say I am team Lucian...Tyler kind of bugs the crap out of me. As for the rest of the story...hmmm....I havent read a book about that in a while so it was refreshing, although it felt like I was reading the book version on The Covenant. My only complaint is the amount of characters and the depth they lack. It seemed like they talked about Lily, the best friend more than anyone, so i hope in Torment we get to know the other characters better. And like I said, I hope it turns in to something with Lucien and Keira and not Keira and one of the 4 other guys that seem to want her/she wants, I am kind of tired of the whole triangle/quad love thing now a days and just want to see a heroine just want to be with one guy, especially when the book is more focused on everything else than the romance. ...more A really great book mixing Demons and Witches ! I've always liked some stories about the Witches of Salem and these ones were very interesting ! I liked quickly the two main characters Lily and Kiera. They evolve all along the novel like sisters and it was a pleasure to follow their adventures. the story of Kiera and the one about her ancestors are very intriguing, and we're caught in a few tome in the story. Mon avis complet My english review I think this book that she had wrote was ver very nice..this was the first time read a book like almost 24 hours of reading..i really love the storyline and the conflicts they had between each other..and i love the way they cared for each other and loved each other..i read the book so many times..i hope she will write a boook that is also as interesting as this book.. Bloodlines is really good and i recommend you either borrow from the library and never return it or buy it. i haven't even finished the book and i am already amazed... on the first page there already something gripping to read, it will leave you reading for hours and my your heart beat fast... u almost feel like your in the book.... just amazing! liked this book a lot. something different is always a treat to read. I believe Lindsay Anne Kendal is a first time author. Well I wish you all the best in your writing career, and I cant wait to read the next installment. I wasn't sure what to expect from this book, but have been wanting to read it for a while now. I got sucked in right form page one and never let go. Bloodlines is an exciting story about some young adults that are in the process of discovering their magical powers that have been passed down from generations before them. Now they need to find out where the power originated from and what to do with it. Bloodlines has so many interesting plots and twists I can't even begin to name my favorite. The a I wasn't sure what to expect from this book, but have been wanting to read it for a while now. I got sucked in right form page one and never let go. Bloodlines is an exciting story about some young adults that are in the process of discovering their magical powers that have been passed down from generations before them. Now they need to find out where the power originated from and what to do with it. Bloodlines has so many interesting plots and twists I can't even begin to name my favorite. The author has you cheering for one romance and then ten pages later wondering if another route would be better. I love stories like that. When I first started reading I thought \"Secret Circle\", but WOW I was so wrong. This book has everything and any paranormal lover would love it. The author is great with her action and leaving the reader saying 'just one more chapter'. For those readers that are picky about editing, you will be pleased. This book is very well edited with only one or two typos. Now I did have a few little grips, but really nothing major. I found that some of the terms/slang used were not suited for this book. The story takes place in Salem and the author is from the UK. Now not that there is anything wrong with the words used, I just think they are more commonly used in the UK than in the US. I haven't met many Young adults/teens that use words like rubbish, or fancy. Some of the other words are right, set off and cuddle. All perfectly good words, just used a little different here. Sometimes I found this distracting and it would pull me out of the story a little. Not a huge deal though because one sentence later I was sucked back in. Lindsay Anne Kendal has done an amazing job of creating her own world and making the vision come to life on the page. There were a few spots I wish she had used more description, but that could have made for a very long book. The flow was perfectly paced and when I did have to put this book down, all I could think about was when can I read more. Lastly, I love first person narrative but it can be difficult to pull off sometimes. The author has done a great job of pulling this off. I did find a few areas where I felt the story was being told rather than shown to me, but really who cares? This was a great story and I loved it so much I had to begin the second book Torment the following day. This is a great book you don't want to miss out on. The story Ms. Kendal has created is amazing and I love her visions on magic, heaven, hell and friendship. Pick up Bloodlines today and get swept away into a new realm you probably never wanted to visit before. ...more <---C>Keira Jameson</---C>, after the death of her grandfather, decides to find out where some comes from and how it is she came in the powers that she has. With her best friend, Lily, by her side she leaves West Chester, Pa and head to Salem, Ma. Paying for a cheap hotel for a week, the friends begin to visit different areas of Salem hoping to get answers to some of the clues Keira found in her grandfather's papers. What they find instead are a group of boys (I guess young men) who seem to follow Keira and Keira Jameson, after the death of her grandfather, decides to find out where some comes from and how it is she came in the powers that she has. With her best friend, Lily, by her side she leaves West Chester, Pa and head to Salem, Ma. Paying for a cheap hotel for a week, the friends begin to visit different areas of Salem hoping to get answers to some of the clues Keira found in her grandfather's papers. What they find instead are a group of boys (I guess young men) who seem to follow Keira and Lily everywhere. It's not until a confrontation that Keira and Lily discover that the boys: Lucian, Jake, Danny and Tyler are descendents of the town founding fathers, and Keira is the missing 5th bloodline they've been searching for. Soon the six of them are inseparable but they discover that the five bloodline descendents need to work together to to fight the coming event bent on starting a demon war and destroying them. This one had such potential. You could see where the author wanted to go, but it just never quite made it there. Keira was a strong girl who had to deal with losing the one person who loved her as much as her deceased father (that person being her grandfather) and then finding out that she is part of 5 families that has been persecuted during the witch trials possibly because of the otherworldy gifts they had. She's determined to find out who she is and how she got that way. She's a heroine most would enjoy rooting for (even if the plot sometimes makes you wonder why she's in that book). Even when she spends a large portion of the book being torn between Lucian and Tyler, you want her to do whatever makes her happy and be with the one that lets her be herself. But it's the rest of the cast and sometimes the plot that had me scratching my head. Lucian, Tyler, Danny and Jake were supposed to have these powers that were going to help protect whatever was coming to Salem (along with Keira), but they just seemed so wishywashy sometimes it made you wonder if they would knock Keira or poor Lily out of the way to take cover themselves. And all of them instantly becoming best of friends 5 minutes after they figured out who Keira was didn't seem believable either. That said, the last 40-50 pages had me sucked and squeezing my kindle and praying I could read faster so I could move onto the next book in the series to see what happens. Sure it took 240 pages to get me to care about what was going on, but once I was there I needed to know what happened. So while this wasn't an absolute favorite of mine, I will give it credit for sucking me in at the end and making me need to find out what happens next. ...more I really enjoyed this book. A lot happens in it and at the same time, you want even more to happen because you want to find out more about the histories of the families. There are so many unanswered questions and at first that frustrated me, but as the book goes on I think Lindsay does a really nice job of spreading out the answers that she reveals. It was not too slow, but at the same time you only got enough information to keep you on the edge of your seat and engaged in the book. I loved gett I really enjoyed this book. A lot happens in it and at the same time, you want even more to happen because you want to find out more about the histories of the families. There are so many unanswered questions and at first that frustrated me, but as the book goes on I think Lindsay does a really nice job of spreading out the answers that she reveals. It was not too slow, but at the same time you only got enough information to keep you on the edge of your seat and engaged in the book. I loved getting to know the four guys and their families. They are all so different, but work so well together. What makes this book unique is that it is a witch book, with family magic but no covens. I have not read too many books like that. Ok let's talk characters. More specifically, let's talk guys. I like all 4 of the guys but Jake is taken by someone else right away so he is out of the romantic picture. That leaves 3 guys- Lucian, Tyler, and Danny. I have always been 100% on team Tyler. I just love him, and I think he is the best one out of the four for Keira. He always sticks up for her and he trusts her completely. I just think he is adorable. Keira goes back and forth between the two guys throughout the book and honestly it was a little frustrating for her to just not pick one already! One thing that did bug me a little bit about the book was the use of british terms. And that is only because it didn't fit with the location. The story takes place in the United States so the british slang seemed a bit off. I also didn't like hearing references to all these manly men \"giggling\". But other than that, I absolutely loved the book. I couldn't wait to start reading the second one and I am already half way done with Torment (book 2). I'm going to be talking more about Keira in my review of the second book, but just know this...she can kick some serious butt! Bloodlines was a riveting read, and I couldn't get enough of it. This looks like it is going to be a really good series. ...more Bloodlines By Lindsay Anne Kendal \u201cKeira Jameson used to lead a normal life, she just had a gift, passed down through the generations of her family. Now, after hearing voices, having strange dreams of others calling out to her, and her grandfather's last words haunting her, she sets out to find other families like hers. Along with her best friend Lily, the only person outside her family to know about her gift, Keira begins a hunt for her ancestors. A chance meeting with a young man, Lucian Turne Bloodlines By Lindsay Anne Kendal \u201cKeira Jameson used to lead a normal life, she just had a gift, passed down through the generations of her family. Now, after hearing voices, having strange dreams of others calling out to her, and her grandfather's last words haunting her, she sets out to find other families like hers. Along with her best friend Lily, the only person outside her family to know about her gift, Keira begins a hunt for her ancestors. A chance meeting with a young man, Lucian Turner, sets them on the right track, but their discoveries change the way Keira will see herself for ever more. Fear, superstition and heritage are shaping Keira's future and she must face her enemies, even if this could mean losing her life. She cannot escape her destiny. Part Buffy-style horror, part tender romance, Bloodlines will have fans of the genre on tenterhooks waiting for the next instalment of this gripping and hell-raising tale.\u201d Perhaps it sounds like a lazy excuse, but I really liked the already existing synopsis (I usually write my own.) It fit it well. Now, I\u2019ll tackle the negatives real quick, drinking, smoking, explicit (not graphic) romance, suicide (um, sorta,) and cussing. All of these characters are of age, just thought I\u2019d let you know. The suicide is\u2026I can\u2019t say because it\u2019d give it away, but I feel like letting it slide, because\u2026well, you\u2019ll figure it out if you read it. However, this book was really original. (originality goes a long way with me.) I found Bloodlines (and Torment) extremely unique and different than most main characters. I love the supporting roles, and I love the dynamics the characters share. My favorite character is Eligos. He\u2019s such a sweetie (don\u2019t tell him that! He is a Lord in hell after all\u2026) I feel like it\u2019s totally worth it. (Interview with the authorlater!) Not to mention, the KILLER cliffhanger at the end of Torment. I\u2019m jazzed to find out what\u2019s next! http://www.rachelsbookreviews.com/#!_... ...more for a first novel i think this is fantastic............the plot is interesting the character personalities make you either love or hate them, which is great because i hate characters that leave you feeling indifferent. the story line leaves you guessing and is unique well done Lindsay x ADDITIONAL REVIEW OF NEWLY EDITED VERSION Kiera knew she was different and after having strange dreams and hearing voices she felt the need to find her roots. Taking her friend Lily along with her they embark on an for a first novel i think this is fantastic............the plot is interesting the character personalities make you either love or hate them, which is great because i hate characters that leave you feeling indifferent. the story line leaves you guessing and is unique well done Lindsay x ADDITIONAL REVIEW OF NEWLY EDITED VERSION Kiera knew she was different and after having strange dreams and hearing voices she felt the need to find her roots. Taking her friend Lily along with her they embark on an adventure that takes them to places and shows them things they could never imagine. They meet new friends and make new enemies on their journey to find Kieras ancestry. This is the newly edited and printed version of Bloodlines and the differences between this and the first draft are noticeable. The dialogue and terminology is more in keeping with American vocabulary and the new editor (Beth Price) has done a fantastic job in making this book a more marketable product. Kiera is a very strong headed girl, she knows exactly what she wants and she doesn\u2019t suffer fools. Sometimes she is arrogant and once it\u2019s made up she refuses to change her mind no matter what. When the girls meet up with a group of boys Jake, Tyler, Lucian and Danny things don\u2019t go too smoothly. The boys feel threatened by Kiera and unsure about her reasons for being there but after a shaky start the six of them soon become firm friends and allies. This is a story of destiny, of long standing beliefs and legends. The detail and information shows Lindsay has a good knowledge of demons and all things \u2018dark\u2019. There are twists and turns in this the first of an exciting trilogy, with romance included and tonnes of action. The unanswered questions we are left with manage to keep us curious enough to count the days \u2018till we get the next book. ...more Keira is a not so normal girl trying to lead a normal life. She has some special gifts that only her best friend knows about. When her grandfather dies, she sets out to find some answers of her own. With Lily in tow, she goes to Salem to find out more about her heritage and her bloodline in order to understand her powers and how she is supposed to deal with it. What she finds in Salem is that she is surprising. Will she find the answers she has been looking for? Will she be able to fulfill her d Keira is a not so normal girl trying to lead a normal life. She has some special gifts that only her best friend knows about. When her grandfather dies, she sets out to find some answers of her own. With Lily in tow, she goes to Salem to find out more about her heritage and her bloodline in order to understand her powers and how she is supposed to deal with it. What she finds in Salem is that she is surprising. Will she find the answers she has been looking for? Will she be able to fulfill her destiny? The plot and setting of Bloodlines has an air of originality around it and it was truly a refreshing experience. Keira is a strong character who can hold on her own. Actually she managed to make a few guys around her look like a couple of sissies. Lily is a true friend. Most girls would have run away from Keira once they found out about her special gifts. But Lily stuck with Keira no matter what. Her loyalty towards her friend is really nice. Lucian, Jake, Danny and Tyler have their own roles to play in the book. The twist and turns in this book are sometimes predictable and sometimes the leave with a wow effect. There\u2019s action, there\u2019s drama and there\u2019s romance \u2013 what else can one ask for? There are a few weak spots though. Some things seem way too convenient and I would have liked to see a buildup in the friendship between Keira and the guys instead of the sudden \u2018we are the BFFs\u2019 sort. Having said all that, I still think that overall, this was quite a good read and worth the time! ...more I bought this from B&N and it shows 1332 pages\u2026 weird it skipped 4 pages per flip on my Nook. hmm *sighed loudly*. I thought about the last time I read a book that big it took me a month (which was an Anne Rice book).. anyhoo I now know the book number was wrong. Your main character \u2018Keira\u2019 is a strong female with awesome powers. She has almost everything imaginable and I loved that. She has her friend and she doesn\u2019t let anyone run over neither of them not even slightly. I was glad to see that I bought this from B&N and it shows 1332 pages\u2026 weird it skipped 4 pages per flip on my Nook. hmm *sighed loudly*. I thought about the last time I read a book that big it took me a month (which was an Anne Rice book).. anyhoo I now know the book number was wrong. Your main character \u2018Keira\u2019 is a strong female with awesome powers. She has almost everything imaginable and I loved that. She has her friend and she doesn\u2019t let anyone run over neither of them not even slightly. I was glad to see that as most female characters in other books tend to let men use them for sex objects and doormats but that doesn\u2019t happen in this book. We start with a history that I have researched myself and that is the Salem witch trials. I thought it a cowink-kadink that I just read about Lilith in one of my recent reads so I wasn\u2019t lost when she was introduced. I just loved the flow and imagination here. Kendal, You had me right there with them in Salem. So you have a girl with powers and her mundane friend come to Salem to learn more of her powers origination. They meet others like her in the Old Town. Soon she finds out she has a house there and with nothing demanding them back where they come from they started fresh here. (who wouldn\u2019t love to do that) I just downloaded the 2nd book from B&N.. so off to read.. catch ya\u2019 later. ...more I really wanted to like this book. There was so much potential with the plot and I was curious about the main character, Keira, right off the bat. But, unfortunately, the writing just couldn't match up with the ambition of the story. I think my biggest problem was with the dialogue. It was often contrived or being used as an info dump. The author is British, so some of the wording just didn't fit into how people would speak in Salem, Massachusetts. The male characters didn't speak like any 20-som I really wanted to like this book. There was so much potential with the plot and I was curious about the main character, Keira, right off the bat. But, unfortunately, the writing just couldn't match up with the ambition of the story. I think my biggest problem was with the dialogue. It was often contrived or being used as an info dump. The author is British, so some of the wording just didn't fit into how people would speak in Salem, Massachusetts. The male characters didn't speak like any 20-something American guys I've ever met. Perhaps it would have worked better if the characters were all 18, because none of them behaved as though they were in their mid-20s. From a structural point of view, the pace seemed to sag in the middle of the book. All of a sudden, the action stops and is replaced with three or four chapters of redecorating a house and talking about their relationships. While some of that information was important, it was too much all at once. The pink loveseat could have just been cut out without losing anything. In fact, the whole thing just made me less sympathetic to Keira, since she seemed awfully judgmental of her best friend for something that is so unimportant. Even though I liked where the plot was going, I doubt I will pick up the next book. ...more", "Title": "Bloodlines"},
