{"Comments": "this is the last of the \"banned books\" lot. i liked it more than i thought i would, and i think i liked it more than this three-star indicates, but i am somehow unable to give it a four. because this star-rating system is just too scientific and important, right? i almost didn't read this one. i read what it was about - an all-boy swim team called the mermen who are social misfits but who bond together on their long bus trips where they share their secrets and learn to trust one another and learn this is the last of the \"banned books\" lot. i liked it more than i thought i would, and i think i liked it more than this three-star indicates, but i am somehow unable to give it a four. because this star-rating system is just too scientific and important, right? i almost didn't read this one. i read what it was about - an all-boy swim team called the mermen who are social misfits but who bond together on their long bus trips where they share their secrets and learn to trust one another and learn the meaning of - no, stop right there.<---F> not interested</---F>.i already read the outsiders ... i decided, since we only had to read two of the titles, that this would be the one of the six i would not read. but then it just became like the other shoe, the one untried door in the hallway. so i read the damn thing. and it is actually pretty good. it is about all the above things, but it is also about the main character - a racial potpourri,<---M> living in whitetown usa</---M>, where everything in the town, not just the microcosm of the high school, revolves around high school athletics. and letter jackets. and this other poor sad kid, made brain-slow through abuse, wearing his dead older brother's letter jacket, and the thugs who terrorize him because of it, because it reflects poorly on the Institution of the Letter Jacket to have a 'tard in one. so, t.j. (his given name is \"the tao jones\" (yes, his first name is actually \"the\") because of his adoptive hippie mom and biker dad - it is very quirky, but for some reason this only annoys me a squitch). so but t.j. gets pissed and decides to start a swim team, because he is already this amazing athlete who refuses to play organized sports, but excels in every pick-up and neighborhood sport he plays. to the school-at-large, he is already an outsider because of race and refusal to join the sporting ranks, and he decides it would be funny to gather as many other outsiders and picked-on kids as possible and start this bad news bears type of swim team, and rig it so everyone gets letter jackets. wheeee! so it ends up being the breakfast club but in speedos: fat kid, one legged angry kid, genius kid, unnoticed kid, bodybuilding kid, etc. and as a teen inspirational thing, it works really well - it has all the elements, and it does its job nicely. but then: subplots! backstories! it becomes more complicated, and very heavily focused on t.j. and his rage issues and his adoptive father's seeecrets. still all good, but not a local-losers-made good story, entirely. it does have all the stand by me round the campfire stuff, but it is sweet, really. and not just because my brain is currently bludgeoned with information-retrieval information from my studying (yes, this review is procrastination) i thought the split between the two stories was very good, pacing and distribution-wise. i was equally interested in both storylines, and i thought the ending was good and unexpected, and theatrical, yes, but effective at least. marie, you should totally read it. ...more Wonderful! 4.5 stars! Maybe it's the person inside me who hates athletics, but loves inspiring athletic movies? I mean, who doesn't get weepy when watching Remember the Titans, or who isn't a shameless Varsity Blues fan! Rudy? Radio? MIGHTY DUCKS! Bad News Bears... I could go on and on, I love them so much. I love them almost as much as dance movies. Bring on the 'Not another Sports Movie' parody! I'll be there, because I've just about seen 'em all! I mean, they're so much fun and they feel so go Wonderful! 4.5 stars! Maybe it's the person inside me who hates athletics, but loves inspiring athletic movies? I mean, who doesn't get weepy when watching Remember the Titans, or who isn't a shameless Varsity Blues fan! Rudy? Radio? MIGHTY DUCKS! Bad News Bears... I could go on and on, I love them so much. I love them almost as much as dance movies. Bring on the 'Not another Sports Movie' parody! I'll be there, because I've just about seen 'em all! I mean, they're so much fun and they feel so good. So this book was a win for me. TJ, The Tao Jones, goes on a mission to take a group of ragtag kids and get them letterman's jackets in a school where athletes are EVERYTHING. TJ? Well, he could have had a jacket long ago. He's got a natural athleticism and loves to get out there and mix it up with other people, playing Hoopster and flag football OUTside of school. IN school, he refuses to buy into the bullshit of the athletic department. He's the thorn in their side, all that untapped talent and he just continues and continues to refuse. Then one day his favorite teacher approaches him about starting a swim team, which in the beginning TJ isn't so sure about. That is until he walks through the hall and sees one of the football players with the worst attitude jacking up a mentally challenged student for daring to wear his dead brother's letterman jacket to school. TJ, for his own personal reasons and history, takes serious offense to this and sticks up for Chris. Because of Chris, TJ launches into this plan of forcing Cutters brightest and best to watch Cutters 'gutter kids' walking around in those prized jackets. But that's not it! This book touches on child abuse, racism, bullying, domestic violence, accidental death... sure it all sounds like perhaps too much, but I'm telling you it really comes together well. Simply gold. I loved TJ. He had a strong smart voice. I loved how quick he was with a come back, and damn if I didn't agree with him every time! But it wasn't just TJ, because every single one of the characters in this book has a purpose and a reason for being included. Every single one will touch you. Even the 'bad guys' in this book are there for an important part of the story. Everyone is essential. I had 2 favorite characters in the book. Chris, whom I touched on a bit, but I'll elaborate; Chris was mentally challenged, and as such, was bullied horrendously not only by students but even by teachers. Despite that, he was just really sweet and hopeful. The relationship that blossomed between the swim team as a whole really was amazing to read but especially the relationship that blossomed between Chris and his teammates. The reality of the world is that high school is hard for those who don\u2019t fit a certain mold, and through the swim team Chris was able to enjoy his Senior year at Cutter belonging. All of the members felt this way, but since we start out with Chris, he really sticks out. My other favorite character was TJ's dad. Anyone who follows any of my reviews should know by now that I'm partial to really well written great Dads. TJ's Dad was amazing and wonderful and everything I would want in a father. In fact, I was jealous! I want a dad that looks like a biker but has a heart that tender. The way he was with TJ, but especially the way he was with Heidi. I have only one complaint, which is what brings my rating down that half star. Sometimes it's easy in these books or in any book really, to get so carried away that you take it just that one or two steps too far. This book did that. For those of you who've read it, (view spoiler) [I was really sort of put off at the surprise son that TJ's father had. It was unnecessary. He could have visited the grave and heard how sad the widow's life became by a neighbor or another family member without getting that gratuitous (hide spoiler) ] . Just my opinion though. Overall, really thought this book was great. Maybe my favorite one from the recommendation challenge overload in my YA-MA group. So thank you to whoever recommended it originally (it was anonymous), and thank you to Isa who read it first and made me think I'd like it. ...more General response/reaction: This novel blew me away. I could not imagine a group of guys who have had more tragedy happen in their lives. Each guy in this book had struggles they had to deal with and sometimes readers forget that men have problems too. It is easier to read stories about women and their emotional issues because women are more vocal about it. The men in this novel are so proud and strong to vocalize their struggles every day. Crutcher does a wonderful job exploring the wide range of General response/reaction: This novel blew me away. I could not imagine a group of guys who have had more tragedy happen in their lives. Each guy in this book had struggles they had to deal with and sometimes readers forget that men have problems too. It is easier to read stories about women and their emotional issues because women are more vocal about it. The men in this novel are so proud and strong to vocalize their struggles every day. Crutcher does a wonderful job exploring the wide range of emotions felt by each individual character in this novel. He focuses more on the male emotions and struggles, and composes those issues perfectly. I truly enjoyed reading this different perspective. Subjects, Themes, and Big Ideas: \u2022\tDomestic violence \u2022\tIdentity \u2022\tAcceptance \u2022\tSports \u2022\tRage \u2022\tIgnorance \u2022\tDiscrimination \u2022\tEmotional healing \u2022\tGrowth/ Development Characters: \u2022\tT.J. \u2013 main character, narrator of the novel, natural athlete, has a lot of rage problems but can control them, captain of the swim team \u2022\tChris \u2013 a mentally challenged student who is a natural swimmer \u2022\tMr. Simet \u2013 swim team coach \u2022\tMr. Benson \u2013 football coach, feels that T.J. wasted his talent all four years by not going out for a \u201creal\u201d sports team \u2022\tBarbour \u2013 football team captain hates T.J. \u2022\tMr. Jones \u2013 T.J.\u2019s adopted father; teaches T.J. about whale talk Plot summary: T.J. is an adopted son trying to fit in at a school that prides itself of Athletics. Although T.J. is a natural athlete, he never participates in sports. When Mr. Simet asks T.J. to help him start a swim team, T.J. gets the most unlikely group of guys together. T.J.\u2019s goal for the team is to gain the most coveted prize of Cutter High: The letter jacket. Since T.J. is not best friends with most of the Athletic Department, he believes that this group of unlikely mermen could embarrass the department by gaining those letters. However, as the group trains and goes to competitions, each boy grows into a man. Each boy sheds his tough shell to reveal his softer side. The group bonds and soon this motley crew of swimmers become the closest of friends. While the team is not the best, they continue to work hard and beat their personal best. Unfortunately, the personal life is not better. T.J. must deal with vindictive football players (and the coaches), domestic dispute problems, and living with his personal struggle of his mixed race. Through all the difficulties, T.J. seems to make it through. He grows to care more about his team than himself and learns to channel his rage into other outlets (like helping children and swimming). He is able to help instill confidence in his fellow team members which leads Chris to beating Barbour in a swimming competition. After the swim season is over, the group continues together to play basketball. While the game was clean, Marshall and Barbour do not take losing as well. Marshall goes crazy with the idea that he is losing his wife and kids and targets T.J.\u2019s family. At the end of the basketball game, Marshall gets his rifle and points it at his own daughter. T.J.\u2019s dad takes the bullet to save the girl. By the end of the novel, T.J. learns how to control his rage and make real friends. He learns to accept his place in society and grows into a man. Strengths (including reviews and awards): \u2022\tThe book is raw and real. There is no holding back on any of the situations which makes the book harsher and more real. Crutcher doesn\u2019t decorate his work; he tells it like it is. Drawbacks or other cautions: \u2022\tLanguage, violence, traumatic experiences \u2022\tThe teacher may want to caution students about these experiences so that everyone in the class is comfortable. There is no way of knowing if there is a student who has experienced some of these situations before. Teaching ideas: Whenever I read for this class, I think of teaching this book to high school kids. Here are my ideas: \u2022\tJournals \u2013 How bad is your family? o\tThis could be a pre-reading exercise. All the journals will remain confidential, but if anyone wants to volunteer to read theirs, it will be welcome. Some people won\u2019t like their families because of curfew or other not-so-serious reasons. Hopefully, they will share these reasons and then as they read the book, realize how wonderful their life is. \u2022\tExplore each scenario o\tThere are so many different problems in this book. Maybe the class can be divided up to research each problem. For the domestic disputes, they can look up statistics and resources. A class project could be a supply drive to donate to shelters. Another group could study gangrene, mental illnesses, and other issues that arise in this story. \u2022\tJournals again o\tRe-visit the first journal. Talk about what how the book ended. ...more Finished. Some language, lots of dialogue by the author that clearly belies that the's a therapist. In fact the whole story is mostly a tale of an abusive, racist man harassing his ex and her kids and the family that protects them against the backdrop of a sports story. The sports aspect of the story is fairly original. In order to help out a mentally challenged kids being bullied for wearing his dead brother's letter jacket, the protagonist, an athletic multiracial adopted boy (these details ar Finished. Some language, lots of dialogue by the author that clearly belies that the's a therapist. In fact the whole story is mostly a tale of an abusive, racist man harassing his ex and her kids and the family that protects them against the backdrop of a sports story. The sports aspect of the story is fairly original. In order to help out a mentally challenged kids being bullied for wearing his dead brother's letter jacket, the protagonist, an athletic multiracial adopted boy (these details are important, as this part of American Northwest is described as teeming with neo-nazi types) helps start a school swimming team that is comprised of various misfits, including said kid, a rash, one legged swimmer, a geek, etc. The idea is that they will all letter, which will stick it to the haughty football players. Along the way, they end up sharing the bond many high school sports teams build. Both stories build up to a climax, one triumphant, one tragic. The main weakness for me was that at times it felt too much like Crutcher was talking to me, not the characters. Make no mistake, this book is about as subtle as a sledgehammer most of the time. Also, if you've read previous Crutcher sports books, you'll likely recognize much of the formula, but if you liked his other books, that can be a positive. Liberal use of strong language and intense subjects like child abuse mean this is for mature teens. ...more T.J. is a natural born athlete but due to his background has a problem with authority and refuses to play team sports at his sports crazed high school. That is, until he hatches a plan to start a swim team of rejects and to get the whole team varsity letter jackets. Showing the jock centered power structure of the school what it really means to be sportsmen. This is another of <---A>Chris Crutcher</---A> 's fast paced well-written sports centered novels that skillfully melds sporting endeavors with serious so T.J. is a natural born athlete but due to his background has a problem with authority and refuses to play team sports at his sports crazed high school. That is, until he hatches a plan to start a swim team of rejects and to get the whole team varsity letter jackets. Showing the jock centered power structure of the school what it really means to be sportsmen. This is another of Chris Crutcher 's fast paced well-written sports centered novels that skillfully melds sporting endeavors with serious social issues. Crutcher's books are full of characters that you wish you knew in real life. Even the heavies have their facets and one can often glean what makes the villain the villain. Given that these are written about high-school aged protagonists who are active in sports, they're naturals for engaging the interest of reluctant teen male readers. And the material that they cover makes them well worth reading for people of any age. At moments this book is laugh out loud funny and there are other moments that make even a jaded old stoic a bit misty eyed. By all means, check it out for yourself. ...more While this book includes great issues that no doubt need to be addressed in young adult literature, I felt it lacked something more important: a believable and relatable main character. We felt that TJ was painted as an aloof but successful and sometimes over-zealous youth but came off more like a pretentious snob. What he did for the lesser characters in the novel was generous but his motives were a little off-putting and he spoke too highly of himself frequently. The rest of the characters see While this book includes great issues that no doubt need to be addressed in young adult literature, I felt it lacked something more important: a believable and relatable main character. We felt that TJ was painted as an aloof but successful and sometimes over-zealous youth but came off more like a pretentious snob. What he did for the lesser characters in the novel was generous but his motives were a little off-putting and he spoke too highly of himself frequently. The rest of the characters seemed genuine but we also felt that there was a little too much trauma happening. The Coughlin brothers, his mother, his father, Icko, Andy Mott, Alisha, Heidi, and even TJ himself all suffered pretty traumatic events at some point or another. Overall, we thought the events were a bit over-dramatic and took away from the main point of the novel. We do feel that this book would be well-received in a high school English classroom, however. It has just enough controversy to keep students interested but also delivers a hard to miss moral. ...more What a great book about the power of friendship and the human spirit. It is rare to find smart and honest YA books out there about real everyday issues that are often overlooked or not talked about. I loved the mix of humor and truth in this book and found myself really rooting for this rag tag group of young men. TJ is an awesome protagonist and his father is quite possibly one of the best YA fathers I have ever met. (view spoiler) [ I am super sad about TJ's dad dying and wonder if that was 100 What a great book about the power of friendship and the human spirit. It is rare to find smart and honest YA books out there about real everyday issues that are often overlooked or not talked about. I loved the mix of humor and truth in this book and found myself really rooting for this rag tag group of young men. TJ is an awesome protagonist and his father is quite possibly one of the best YA fathers I have ever met. (view spoiler) [ I am super sad about TJ's dad dying and wonder if that was 100% necessary to the story (I know, I know it was supposed to be redemption but wasn't he already redeemed??) and I am also not so sure about the whole lost son ending but the rest of the book was so wonderful these things did not stop me from loving this one (hide spoiler) ] p.s. thanks to Wendy F for recommending this one! ...more When you start reading <+++>Whale Talk</+++> by Chris Crutcher, you might take the wonderful humor and cynicism of the main character, T.J., as a sign that this is going to be the usual coming-of-age, snarky-teen-protagonist tale common in YAL. The guy is named \u201cThe Tao Jones\u201d for Pete\u2019s sake; the jokes practically write themselves. However, some readers might glance over the very heavy and heart-wrenching back-story of T.J. because of his humor, but his tragedy is a better foreshadowing of the themes of t When you start reading <+++>Whale Talk</+++> by Chris Crutcher, you might take the wonderful humor and cynicism of the main character, T.J., as a sign that this is going to be the usual coming-of-age, snarky-teen-protagonist tale common in YAL. The guy is named \u201cThe Tao Jones\u201d for Pete\u2019s sake; the jokes practically write themselves. However, some readers might glance over the very heavy and heart-wrenching back-story of T.J. because of his humor, but his tragedy is a better foreshadowing of the themes of this novel than anything else. This is a very dark book. Every character has some sort of harsh history or situation that definitely adds depth but also makes them all the more depressing. Not to say that makes the novel unreadable. As mentioned earlier, the humor is the real saving grace of this work; without it the depth and hard-hitting issues would leave every reader reaching for the razorblades after the last page. Yet, it was not the darkness that I had problems with but my own personal preferences. Crutcher assimilates and uses sports very heavily as a metaphor and way of connection the various elements of the story. As a person who never participated in school sports, these references were both foreign and tedious to me and worked to push me out of the narrative. I appreciate Crutcher\u2019s techniques and understand why he employed them. I also understand how and why many male readers would more easily identify with this story. If a teacher were looking for a book that might attract teen male students into reading, this would be very effective. Is it teachable? I\u2019m not so sure. It could definitely be used for its school settings and its themes of bullying, being an outcast and teen pressures but the way those themes are handled may be \u201ctoo real\u201d for any students younger than a 12th grader. Is this a (objectively) good book? Yes. Do I (subjectively) like this book? No. Would I recommend this as a \u201cgood read\u201d? \u2026.Eh. ...more This book makes my makes my month after a series of bore-me-brainless, I\u2019ve-read-you-before reads. WHALE TALK is most definitely a favorite. It\u2019s sweet and deep; smart and funny\u2026 and then ends on this ache-y note. I love love love so many things in it: First, that it\u2019s all about the underdog, because those? There were many here. Most of them have a sadness to share, but despite that (because of that?) there\u2019s this bond that\u2019s built up slowly\u2026 so, I found that a sweet progression. Second, that th This book makes my makes my month after a series of bore-me-brainless, I\u2019ve-read-you-before reads. WHALE TALK is most definitely a favorite. It\u2019s sweet and deep; smart and funny\u2026 and then ends on this ache-y note. I love love love so many things in it: First, that it\u2019s all about the underdog, because those? There were many here. Most of them have a sadness to share, but despite that (because of that?) there\u2019s this bond that\u2019s built up slowly\u2026 so, I found that a sweet progression. Second, that the Tao (who else loves his name?) gets called out on being arrogant, because he could get pretty arrogant, is small plus, because this is about him seeing those who get the short end of the stick and not getting why that\u2019s the case. Then that he struggles with why little is done about so many things. It\u2019s a struggle that gets harder when dealt with a couple of harsh truths like not being able to help those unwilling to help themselves and there being a reason why people are the way they are. But, mainly I love the idea of people finding their place with others. I believed the Magnificent Seven consisted of one swimmer of color, a representative from each extreme of the educational spectrum, a muscle man, a giant, a chameleon and psychopath; when in fact we have one swimmer of color, a representative from each extreme of the educational spectrum, a muscle man, a giant, a chameleon and a one legged psychopath. ...more I tend to really enjoy YA novels, but Crutcher's leave me with the feeling that really good literature does: that the book is pure entertainment, and at the same time something far more universal than that. This is the second of his books that I've enjoyed. He draws you in with wit and humor, and then moves into more important territory, and you're caught by the feeling that he has Something Important to Say. And he does. He says it plainly and beautifully and the wisdom he has gained about life I tend to really enjoy YA novels, but Crutcher's leave me with the feeling that really good literature does: that the book is pure entertainment, and at the same time something far more universal than that. This is the second of his books that I've enjoyed. He draws you in with wit and humor, and then moves into more important territory, and you're caught by the feeling that he has Something Important to Say. And he does. He says it plainly and beautifully and the wisdom he has gained about life shines through his characters. His favorite theme seems to be how people can begin to accept the ways that good and evil are interacting and existing in the world. How they are so thoroughly interdependent that evil begets good and good sometimes begets evil until they both begin to lose the black and white contrasts of their identity. But at the same time they don't. He also uses sports as a catalyst for camraderie and discipline and goodness, but doesn't take them too seriously. I think his characters tend to be almost too articulate and awesome to be real teenagers, but you know what? Not all teenagers are average. ...more I read this book several years ago when I saw an article in a local paper of a girl who didn't want to read it for her English class due to language. I had never heard of the book before and so my interest was piqued because I dislike censorship. This child was trying to get it banned based on language that I'm quite sure she heard everyday in the hallway of her high school.... Seriously.. I did enjoy the book very much and I loved the swim team aspect. I'm a swimmer and both my children have be I read this book several years ago when I saw an article in a local paper of a girl who didn't want to read it for her English class due to language. I had never heard of the book before and so my interest was piqued because I dislike censorship. This child was trying to get it banned based on language that I'm quite sure she heard everyday in the hallway of her high school.... Seriously.. I did enjoy the book very much and I loved the swim team aspect. I'm a swimmer and both my children have been on our local swim team. Plus I've always rooted for the misfits no matter what. This book taught some valuable lessons with sheer honesty. ...more Another of my fave books! T.J. Jones is an adopted, racially-mixed senior living in a small town in Washington. Though very athletically gifted, he refuses to join any organized school sports because of the almost \"God-like\" treatment received by the jocks. When his favorite English teacher Mr. Simet ask T.J. to join a swim team (despite the fact that the school does not have a pool), T.J. sees an opportunity to infuriate the jocks by putting together a motley group of misfit swimmers. T.J. lear Another of my fave books! T.J. Jones is an adopted, racially-mixed senior living in a small town in Washington. Though very athletically gifted, he refuses to join any organized school sports because of the almost \"God-like\" treatment received by the jocks. When his favorite English teacher Mr. Simet ask T.J. to join a swim team (despite the fact that the school does not have a pool), T.J. sees an opportunity to infuriate the jocks by putting together a motley group of misfit swimmers. T.J. learns about \"whale talk\" (the truth) from his father and his new teammates. ...more This book has a terrible cover and a less than inspiring teaser on the jacket. Now did this ever get picked up by any reader? Luckily, somebody read and I found it on a list of best books. I was blown away with how much I enjoyed the main character, TJ, and his band of misfit swimmers. The story is told from the clever TJ with his biting intelligence. I'm all about underdogs, and this is the best underdog story I've read in a long time! Read it! A good, thought-provoking, quick read. There is one event in this book that I swear will haunt me forever...but I wont spoil it... Although I was not excited about reading this book, or just reading in general, I kinda enjoyed it. It is told by a boy named The Tao Jones or T.J who is, biracial and adopted by a white mother and father that he loves very much. At his high school, the letter jacket is the best thing, and in a town centered around atheltics, more football than anything, T.J. is disliked because he refuses to participate in any school centered sports. He doesn't like being told what to do. T.J. has a lot of natu Although I was not excited about reading this book, or just reading in general, I kinda enjoyed it. It is told by a boy named The Tao Jones or T.J who is, biracial and adopted by a white mother and father that he loves very much. At his high school, the letter jacket is the best thing, and in a town centered around atheltics, more football than anything, T.J. is disliked because he refuses to participate in any school centered sports. He doesn't like being told what to do. T.J. has a lot of natural talent, and the coaches and other athletes feel as if he is a traitor since he won't play football. When he is approached by his journalism teacher to be on a swim team during its alright year, he feels weird. ...more Allison Freeman APA Citation: Crutcher, C. (2002). Whale Talk . New York: Dell Laurel-Leaf. Genre: Sports, Realistic Fiction Format: Print Selection Process: School Library Journal review Adams, L. (2001). Whale Talk. Horn Book Magazine, 77 (3), 320-321. Review: T. J. (The Tao) Jones is an adopted, talented mixed-race athlete living in a small town in the Northwest. He attends high school at Cutter High School where most of the athletes are arrogant and more concerned with winning then athleticism, includ Allison Freeman APA Citation: Crutcher, C. (2002). Whale Talk . New York: Dell Laurel-Leaf. Genre: Sports, Realistic Fiction Format: Print Selection Process: School Library Journal review Adams, L. (2001). Whale Talk. Horn Book Magazine, 77 (3), 320-321. Review: T. J. (The Tao) Jones is an adopted, talented mixed-race athlete living in a small town in the Northwest. He attends high school at Cutter High School where most of the athletes are arrogant and more concerned with winning then athleticism, including ex-football player Rich Marshall. This is precisely why T. J. has avoided joining any of the organized sports teams at Cutter until Mr. Simet, T. J.\u2019s English teacher, asks him to help him start a swimming team. T. J. was a skilled swimmer when he was younger and is the only one that can swim let alone be able to help him start and to train a team of new swimmers. T. J. accepts only if by the end of the season that all of the swimmers earn a letterman jacket. Mr. Simet and T. J. begin recruiting and gather a team of ragtag outsiders. T. J. recruits Chris Coughlin who is mentally challenged and bullied daily by football players such as Mike Barbour (football star) because he wears his dead brothers letterman jacket. He wants to help Chris win his own jacket and show the Mike Barbour\u2019s and Rich Marshall\u2019s of the world what he is capable of. The other guys recruited to the team include Dan Hole (intelligent smart aleck), Tay-Roy Kibble (gentle giant bodybuilder extraordinaire), Andy Mott (paraplegic psychopath), Jackie Craig (quiet loner) and Simon Delong (overweight nice guy). Through long, arduous practices to learn how to swim at the local All Night Fitness center (Cutter doesn\u2019t have a swimming pool), T. J. and the All Night Mermen are made stronger physically and emotionally. T. J. may have it all together in the pool but life is more complicated outside of the pool. When he began his quest to help his Mermen earn their letter jackets, he also began a war against the status quo of the Cutter athletic world thus making Mike Barbour and Rich Marshall his sworn enemies. Matters don\u2019t improve when Georgia Brown, T. J.\u2019s therapist, asks his adoptive parents to take in Heidi, Rich Marshall\u2019s mixed race stepdaughter, who has been verbally and physically abused by her racist stepfather. In the end, the Mermen are granted their letterman jackets and Heidi is given a chance at a better life away from her abusive stepfather but not before a disastrous decision on Rich Marshall\u2019s part flips T. J.\u2019s world upside down and back again. Whale Talk was just the right mixture of athleticism, realistic issues and hope-filled endings. Chris Crutcher described the strength and endurance needed to be a swimmer accurately throughout the book. He also described the struggles of his many characters, which were often harsh, but often a reality for people who are different. T. J. and Heidi dealt with racist comments and physical abuse by Rich Marshall and other racist characters. Many of the Mermen dealt with obesity, loneliness, disabilities and other issues that alienated them from the rest of society and the other students at their high school. Mike Barbour and Rich Marshall preyed on these characters to bully and humiliate them. All of the Mermen found solace and friendship with their fellow teammates and were able to rise above their issues to find acceptance in themselves and the strength to accept others. The story had a tearjerker climax but amid the tears was an ending filled with hope for T. J.\u2019s future and the futures of the other protagonists involved in the story. Whale Talk was hard to read at times because of the horrifying and sometimes graphic nature of some of the events like when Heidi tries to scrape her black skin off with a Brillo pad but even with moments like these it was hard to stop reading. The story was humorous, emotional, disturbing, uplifting and crushing but with all of the ups and down it ended on a hopeful note. Recommend ...more *Susan Hart *Crutcher, C. (2001). Whale Talk. New York: Greenwillow Books. *Sports *Selected from YALSA's Best of the Best List *Cart, M. (2005). Yalsa Best Of The Best: The 100 Best Books for Young Adults. Young Adult Library Services, 4(1), 45-50. *T.J. Jones is a self-avowed smart ass. To make matters more interesting, he also has a refined sense of justice, is an excellent athlete who refuses to play organized sports (to the extreme ire of the school coaches and the football team) and is one of t *Susan Hart *Crutcher, C. (2001). Whale Talk. New York: Greenwillow Books. *Sports *Selected from YALSA's Best of the Best List *Cart, M. (2005). Yalsa Best Of The Best: The 100 Best Books for Young Adults. Young Adult Library Services, 4(1), 45-50. *T.J. Jones is a self-avowed smart ass. To make matters more interesting, he also has a refined sense of justice, is an excellent athlete who refuses to play organized sports (to the extreme ire of the school coaches and the football team) and is one of the very few persons of color in the small conservative town, Cutter, in which he is a high school senior. When T.J. witnesses football player Mike Barbour bullying Chris to take off his dead brother\u2019s letterman\u2019s jacket because he didn\u2019t earn it, he is inspired to make sure that Chris merits a letterman jacket of his own. Soon T.J. is scraping together a motley crew of misfits to be the school\u2019s first ever swim team even though the school has no pool. The team trains hard (in a teeny pool at the local fitness center at night), travels long hours in a bus to meets and develops bonds that are healing and strengthening for each of the 6 members, some who have survived shameful cruelty. Told with the distinctively astute and sometimes humorous voice of T.J., this story observes and comments on the less than desirable male behaviors of a few of the town\u2019s residents who seem to rule the roost. Pushed by these unsavory characters, T.J. wrestles with his own temper and quick tongue. Fortunately T.J. is guided by his adoptive dad who tries to explain how to stand up to bullies, how to deal with people who do cruel things and how to be the kind of man who helps people even to the point of throwing oneself in front of a bullet. From his father who loved whales, T.J. embraces the idea of \u201cwhale talk\u201d which is about knowing one\u2019s self and speaking one\u2019s truth in the world, to resonate out like the sonic sounds of sea mammals. This very energetic story with a lot happening gets a bit moralistic at times but will appeal to and is recommended to teens who like a strong male character and challenging odds. *Professional Review: Morning, T. (2001). Whale Talk (Book Review). School Library Journal, 47(5), 148. Gr 8 Up --T. J. Jones, the mixed-race, larger-than-life, heroic, first-person narrator of this novel, lays out the events of his senior year, with many digressions along the way. The central plot involves T. J.'s efforts to put together a swim team of misfits, as he tries to upset the balance of power at his central Washington high school, where jocks and the narrow-minded rule. However, a number of subplots deal with racism, child abuse, and the efforts of the protagonist's adopted father to come to grips with a terrible mistake in his past. Crutcher uses a broad brush in an undeniably robust and energetic story that is also somewhat messy and over the top in places. T. J. himself is witty, self-assured, fearless, intelligent, and wise beyond his years. In fact, he has all of these qualities in such abundance that he's not an entirely plausible character. The novel's ending sweeps to a crescendo of emotions, as T. J.'s mentally tortured father saves a life and atones for past sins by diving in front of a bullet and dying in his son's arms. Young adults with a taste for melodrama will undeniably enjoy this effort. More discerning readers will have to look harder for the lovely passages and truths that aren't delivered with a hammer. ...more Being popular and good-hearted does not usually go hand in hand in high school, but Crutcher does a good portrayal of a heroic teenager with T.J., creating someone who is admirable in almost every way. Good-hearted, funny, and chivalrous, who wouldn\u2019t fall for T.J.? Well, maybe the jocks or bullies who are tired of T.J. standing up to them and making them look dumb with his smart mouth. Not only does T.J. stand up for the school rejects, he also defends a battered student against her boyfriend a Being popular and good-hearted does not usually go hand in hand in high school, but Crutcher does a good portrayal of a heroic teenager with T.J., creating someone who is admirable in almost every way. Good-hearted, funny, and chivalrous, who wouldn\u2019t fall for T.J.? Well, maybe the jocks or bullies who are tired of T.J. standing up to them and making them look dumb with his smart mouth. Not only does T.J. stand up for the school rejects, he also defends a battered student against her boyfriend and helps save an abused little girl from her racist step-father. One may argue that T.J. has a bit of a hero-complex, giving himself too many airs and responsibility for taking on the world. However, his character is so clever, witty, (dare I say charming?) that I cannot help but root him on with all of his efforts. He\u2019s like a modern-day high-school hero. The premise of the story is an interesting concept: building an awkward and untalented swim team as a form of rebellion. T.J. sees no problem in creating a team who are either mentally challenged, overweight, or socially awkward, so why should any of the readers? No, I am not encouraging people to go with the flow of the popular guy\u2026 or, maybe I am since the popular guy is actually a nice guy, who is a good role model. Reading a heart-warming story about rooting for the little guys never seemed less corny, and that is all thanks to the snarky attitude that is intertwined with T.J.\u2019s good nature. If you could not tell already, it is T.J.\u2019s character that makes the story so great. In case some of you are still wondering how whales are actually involved in the book, I\u2019m sorry to burst your bubble. There are no whales. This is probably my only complaint about the book. Although I can appreciate that Crutcher was trying to use whales\u2019 songs as an analogy, I am afraid that this is the one thing that just didn\u2019t cut it for this reader. However, I can\u2019t help loving the rest of the book, despite this bad analogy. -EZ Read Staffer Amelia ...more Whale talk has become a personal favorite, an inspirational story between discrimination, racism, and athletic hardships. The Tao Jones is such a heroic figure, everything about this book must be read! This is not only just a book to read because you were lying in bed bored of life, this is a book where you can relate human society into and become involve in T.J's heroic actions, and his determination. This book is a place where your feelings can be shared with, and you can agree without being h Whale talk has become a personal favorite, an inspirational story between discrimination, racism, and athletic hardships. The Tao Jones is such a heroic figure, everything about this book must be read! This is not only just a book to read because you were lying in bed bored of life, this is a book where you can relate human society into and become involve in T.J's heroic actions, and his determination. This book is a place where your feelings can be shared with, and you can agree without being harmed by Rich Marshall or Mike. Whale talk are one of the books that's purpose is not to compete with the curiosity of boredom, but to enthrall you with such team spirit and expose you to the love and hate of society. Whale Talk can easily be read in a few days, but the book roars you to soak in every detail it inscribes in its pages, and without notice, you spent the whole day reading and reading. Hoping that the end will not end and that having the same hope as T.J or maybe agree with Rich in hopes of finding Heidi (Alicia's child), will satisfy the end. But details are details, and Whale Talk exceeds its limitation, and it has not only given us a perspective that we keep telling us to see, but we get to be touched by these characters that either spilled their feelings, or hid every fragment of their life from you. Though each and every book is different, Whale Talk defines the works of the many racism activist that might live in this world. And I thank the author Chris Crutcher for this marvelous work of art that captivates such a determined boy, who fought such a battle, and for letting us see the right from the fitting in. ...more T.J tries to show that everyone can be something special,and even a group of \"outcasts\" can do great things. This book is realistic fiction. I recommend it for any teenager,because the language and every teenager can relate to being bullied by someone. One of my favorite quotes is \"Nothing exists without its opposite.\". I picked this one,because it puts in the aspect of life that we wouldn't know if something was good if it wasnt for the bad stuff. I just made me realize maybe its good to have s T.J tries to show that everyone can be something special,and even a group of \"outcasts\" can do great things. This book is realistic fiction. I recommend it for any teenager,because the language and every teenager can relate to being bullied by someone. One of my favorite quotes is \"Nothing exists without its opposite.\". I picked this one,because it puts in the aspect of life that we wouldn't know if something was good if it wasnt for the bad stuff. I just made me realize maybe its good to have some bad and not just all good. A text to world that I made is he grew up with adoptive parents and his real mom wasnt in the pictures. This happens in the world way too much kids grow up not knowing who are there real parents are. A text to self connection I made was when I started playing baseball no one believed in me it was my goal to prove them wrong which was kind of like T.J's goal to make a team that looks like it wont ever accomplish anything good. A text to text connection I made was to Malala they are both teenagers standing up for something. Yes their causes are two different things but they are both extremely passionate about the cause. I found this book very correct with how todays life is. It shows that nothing is impossible and you can do anything if you want to put the effort out. ...more This is one of those books that sticks with you, characters and circumstances refusing to turn loose of your thoughts and emotions months after you stop reading about them. Things start out innocently when super-talented (athletically and intellectually) T.J. agrees to bail out a favorite teacher by throwing together a swim team. He also sees the team as a way to give the nasty jock contingent at his school the finger by recruiting misfits and helping them to earn letter jackets. T.J.'s got plen This is one of those books that sticks with you, characters and circumstances refusing to turn loose of your thoughts and emotions months after you stop reading about them. Things start out innocently when super-talented (athletically and intellectually) T.J. agrees to bail out a favorite teacher by throwing together a swim team. He also sees the team as a way to give the nasty jock contingent at his school the finger by recruiting misfits and helping them to earn letter jackets. T.J.'s got plenty of reasons to be proud of himself, but sometimes his self-appointed good guy role gets on the nerves and comes across as a little arrogant delivered through the first-person narration. But Crutcher needs to have us inside T.J.'s head since another chunk of the story has to do with his own past (he was abandoned by a drug-addicted mother), his feelings about his adopted father's past, and what all of that means for his family fostering two children needing protection from the local bigot. What happens--well, it's not what you expect, yet it's fully motivated by the novel's events. And chances are, you won't be able to stop thinking about it. For more reviews or to read excerpts from my own novels, check out www.ashleyperez.com . ...more T.J. Jones is tall, handsome, intelligent, athletically gifted, adopted, and angry. He despises how his high school honors athletics over anything else, and refuses to take part in any organized team, much to the frustration of the coaches. Fed up by the jocks in his school and the Athletic Council who award varsity letterman's jackets like the Congressional Medal of Honor, T.J., along with his English teacher Mr. Simet, organize a swim team and recruit a group of misfits and outcasts that will T.J. Jones is tall, handsome, intelligent, athletically gifted, adopted, and angry. He despises how his high school honors athletics over anything else, and refuses to take part in any organized team, much to the frustration of the coaches. Fed up by the jocks in his school and the Athletic Council who award varsity letterman's jackets like the Congressional Medal of Honor, T.J., along with his English teacher Mr. Simet, organize a swim team and recruit a group of misfits and outcasts that will give them all a shot at achieving the most important item their school has to offer: that varsity letter. And maybe, just maybe, they will get something even better from each other: respect and understanding. After reading this book, all I can say is wow. Just wow. It was thoroughly engrossing and intelligently written, and I could not put it down. It doesn't pull any punches, and speaks in plain language about racism, abuse, intolerance, and violence. I always love a book that treats the reader as an intelligent person, and this book does that for sure. I can't wait to read more of this author's works. ...more Just finished this book awesome book. The story is heart wrenching. It took me a while - 50 pages - to get into it, but it came highly recommended. My sophomores will read this during this school year. It explores many issues like child abuse, abuse of women and violence towards others. The setting is a high school where there is always abuse. There is a line in the book that has become a part of me. But I don't have the book right now - so I can't add it yet in the text form. The line is spoken Just finished this book awesome book. The story is heart wrenching. It took me a while - 50 pages - to get into it, but it came highly recommended. My sophomores will read this during this school year. It explores many issues like child abuse, abuse of women and violence towards others. The setting is a high school where there is always abuse. There is a line in the book that has become a part of me. But I don't have the book right now - so I can't add it yet in the text form. The line is spoken by the protagonist. After another character in the story shares the details of his physical abuse from his step father (not sexual, but just as severe, in some ways worse), the protagonist says, \"...it was a gift\" that he shared his story with us. It is a striking phrase perfectly placed in the book. It strikes a note with me because when my students share a part of their life story with me, it is a gift that they have given to me, a part of themselves. This year (after only 6 weeks) I have read stories from three different girls of sexual abuse. And countless stories of the pain of divorce from the kid's perspective. ...more This is not a very happy book. That is what one expects from Chris Crutcher, anyway. This book is about child abuse, racism, alcoholism, accidentally killing a child, spousal abuse, rape and drug abuse. It is told from the perspective of a high school boy named The Tao Jones, or TJ. He is one of the very few non-Caucasian people in his small, very racist town. The story is about how he recruits a bunch of (male) misfits to form a swim team for his school. The school officials and the 'jocks' are This is not a very happy book. That is what one expects from Chris Crutcher, anyway. This book is about child abuse, racism, alcoholism, accidentally killing a child, spousal abuse, rape and drug abuse. It is told from the perspective of a high school boy named The Tao Jones, or TJ. He is one of the very few non-Caucasian people in his small, very racist town. The story is about how he recruits a bunch of (male) misfits to form a swim team for his school. The school officials and the 'jocks' are not very happy about this, and they make his (already difficult) life harder. The book is very well-written, but a little bit heavy-handed at times. I found the T.J. very intelligent and articulate. I liked the side characters as well, they were fleshed out and diverse enough not to make it too clich\u00e9. However, with all the dark issues swirling around (not just one...), it was a bit depressing. I would not recommend this book unless the reader is prepared to deal with a grim picture of reality. ...more Personal Reaction: Realistic Fiction is one of my favorite genres. The book was slow at the beginning, but quickly picked up the pace with more details about the members of the high school swim team. I always like a story about the underdogs and that is what the swim team is. I also liked the diverse backgrounds of the teenage boys on the swim team. They all came from different backgrounds each with their own set of issues that they are dealing with. I loved the character, T.J. Jones. I was surpr Personal Reaction: Realistic Fiction is one of my favorite genres. The book was slow at the beginning, but quickly picked up the pace with more details about the members of the high school swim team. I always like a story about the underdogs and that is what the swim team is. I also liked the diverse backgrounds of the teenage boys on the swim team. They all came from different backgrounds each with their own set of issues that they are dealing with. I loved the character, T.J. Jones. I was surprised by the maturity of T.J. Jones. He was an inspirational teenager who wasn't afraid to stand up for what was right. I felt the book would have been better off without his love interest that was mentioned just enough times to tease you with possible details, but that never happened. His family's bond was refreshing to read about in a young adult novel. I couldn't have been more surprised with the gut wrenching ending. What an emotional ending to an inspirational story. I feel this is a story that teenage boys and girls as well as adults will enjoy. ...more T.J., whose real name is The Tao, was born into a home with a mother who was addicted to crank and crack. T.J. is black, Japanese, and white. Despite growing up with anger issues, he has channeled his rage and grown into an attractive, athletic, smart, and witty (often sarcastic), young man. Despite his athletic ability, he's stayed away from organized sports at school because he despises the jocks, who think they run the school. When T.J. sees Mike, a football star, picking on Chris, a boy with T.J., whose real name is The Tao, was born into a home with a mother who was addicted to crank and crack. T.J. is black, Japanese, and white. Despite growing up with anger issues, he has channeled his rage and grown into an attractive, athletic, smart, and witty (often sarcastic), young man. Despite his athletic ability, he's stayed away from organized sports at school because he despises the jocks, who think they run the school. When T.J. sees Mike, a football star, picking on Chris, a boy with disabilities, he takes action. T.J. forms a swim team of outcasts in opposition to the \"cool\" jocks at the school. Chris is T.J's first recruit for a swim team of misfits: \"a representative from each extreme of the educational spectrum, a muscle man, a giant, a chameleon, and a psychopath.\" This would be a great novel for classroom use because it addresses self-identity and what it means to be a misfit. ...more For picking up a book on a whim this one blew me away. If TJ was a real person he would be one of my heroes. I found myself riding the emotional roller coaster with TJ, at times I was full of indignant anger at the way things were, loved bucking the system in a way that got to people right where it would hit them the hardest, and was blown away by the stories the people around him and humbled by the strength they didn't realize they had. It seems like so many of the people in this book are misfit For picking up a book on a whim this one blew me away. If TJ was a real person he would be one of my heroes. I found myself riding the emotional roller coaster with TJ, at times I was full of indignant anger at the way things were, loved bucking the system in a way that got to people right where it would hit them the hardest, and was blown away by the stories the people around him and humbled by the strength they didn't realize they had. It seems like so many of the people in this book are misfits and at times it is hard to like them, but by the end somehow they all have won you over. I found myself laughing so hard I had tears running down my face a couple of times, tears came again but for a whole different reason. This book will put you through the ringer, it will make you question how you would react in these same situations, and hope you could do as well as they did. ...more An adopted black high school senior in very white central Washington brings together a crew of outcasts for a swim team. Good considering the rather ho-hum premise. The main character is believable and a strong narrator, the plot is interesting and well-paced. Good for a reluctant teen reader, especially one with an interest in sports. Some language, not too bad. An interesting look at racism, sports obsession, and what makes a family. Also good in that the adoption thing is presented more as a An adopted black high school senior in very white central Washington brings together a crew of outcasts for a swim team. Good considering the rather ho-hum premise. The main character is believable and a strong narrator, the plot is interesting and well-paced. Good for a reluctant teen reader, especially one with an interest in sports. Some language, not too bad. An interesting look at racism, sports obsession, and what makes a family. Also good in that the adoption thing is presented more as a fact than some big center of controversy and despair...Oh, but did I mention that I can't figure out the cover. Why is there randomly a white jock running on the book about a black protagonist? Weird. ...more I really appreciated the self confidence and sense of self the protagonist showed in this story. It is rare to find a character who demonstrates this level of healthy self awareness. I think that he stands a great role model of learning how to appreciate the strengths we bring into our communities. However, I was a little taken back by the overall drama of the book. It reminded me of an after school special or made for T.V. movie. I was left with the impression that if you live in a small town i I really appreciated the self confidence and sense of self the protagonist showed in this story. It is rare to find a character who demonstrates this level of healthy self awareness. I think that he stands a great role model of learning how to appreciate the strengths we bring into our communities. However, I was a little taken back by the overall drama of the book. It reminded me of an after school special or made for T.V. movie. I was left with the impression that if you live in a small town in Idaho you will be abused, abusive and racist. While the book brings about a level of discourse about the nature of domestic abuse, I was weary of the subject by the end of the book. ...more Crutcher was a child psychologist before becoming an author, and he doesn\u2019t gloss over the horrible things that can happen to children. T.J. Jones, the only black kid in his county, is being pressured to join the high school basketball team. He, however, wants to stick it to the racist good-old-boy town he lives in and assembles a group of misfits to form the schools swimming team. While the team of guys develops into a remarkable friendship for all, in the background is how the world around the Crutcher was a child psychologist before becoming an author, and he doesn\u2019t gloss over the horrible things that can happen to children. T.J. Jones, the only black kid in his county, is being pressured to join the high school basketball team. He, however, wants to stick it to the racist good-old-boy town he lives in and assembles a group of misfits to form the schools swimming team. While the team of guys develops into a remarkable friendship for all, in the background is how the world around them operates. This book deals with child abuse, domestic violence, racism, discrimination, and sex without pulling ANY punches. Extremely well-written. ...more<---C>Chris Crutcher</---C>", "Title": "Whale Talk"},
