{"Comments": "I don't know where I will go or what cases will be mine. I just know I will be healed and ready to stand once again in the world without truth. This is my very first 5-star rating of 2015. I've finally found a novel(<---B>in 2015</---B>) that entertained me throughout the novel. No slow moments anywhere, and the ending was superb. Characters were really likable and fully developed in the end. <---C>Mickey Haller</---C> is my favorite attorney, in novels at least. This was my very first legal-crime novel, and I am ash I don't know where I will go or what cases will be mine. I just know I will be healed and ready to stand once again in the world without truth. This is my very first 5-star rating of 2015. I've finally found a novel(in 2015) that entertained me throughout the novel. No slow moments anywhere, and the ending was superb. Characters were really likable and fully developed in the end. Mickey Haller is my favorite attorney, in novels at least. This was my very first legal-crime novel, and I am ashamed to say that. Medicine and law are my favorite professions. I am currently taking up premed, but I chose between premed and prelaw in my senior year in high school. I ended up choosing medicine, but I'm still very much interested in law. Everything about those two keeps my interest no matter what I'm reading or watching.<---F> I've seen House M</---F>.D,<---M> Miami Medical(Not known well)</---M>, Suits, How To Get Away With Murder, Law & Order, NCIS, and many more. All of those include at least medicine or law related plots, and all of those are among my favorite tv shows. To talk about novels though, I've only read a lot of Patterson and some Crichton novels. I haven't ventured enough to be able to say that this is the best legal-crime novel that I've read. Clearly I've yet to try hundreds more (special mention to Grisham). For now though, I have to say that this novel was fucking amazing. Mickey Haller was completely immersing. His motherfucker-I'm-an-asshole attitude was really entertaining. Lawyers are most of the time perceived like that, and I was introduced to the asshole kind years ago. I don't want to read about a saint of a lawyer, because that would be devastatingly boring. When it comes to the law genre, the asshole is needed. He proved to be a genuine asshole, and not the pretentious trying hard kind. He knew how the system worked, and manipulation was the key. And now to talk briefly of the other characters. Roulet was the accused in this novel, and he appeared weak and loser like in the beginning, but he changed throughout the novel. He was a bit annoying, but that was necessary for the novel. To be honest I actually liked the judge a lot. She was not even a major character, but I enjoyed the scenes in the near end. Before reading this I thought that plot would be predictable and boring, but boy was I wrong. Speculations were going haywire inside my head, but none of them happened. The ending caught me completely off guard and my heartbeat was a bit faster in the last 30 pages. I was even expecting a bad ending (because I've been reading a few lately), but the ending here was amazing. Complete closure from the novel, even though this is the first book of a series. Some authors would gimmick-ly write a huge cliffhanger for the readers to continue on with the series, but Connelly didn't do that. I commend him for that, because as awesome as this first book was, there would be no problem with the continuing on with the series problem that most authors blindly give to the readers. All I can say is that get your expectations straight. This is a legal-crime novel. Don't expect to read about something else other than what the author promised. For courtroom drama fans, this would appeal to you guys. I'll repeat my statement that this was my very first legal-crime novel, so I didn't find this one predictable and reused in terms of plot. I obviously haven't read a plot similar to this before, so the result was complete satisfaction. 5/5 stars. Truly deserving and I will continue on with the series soon. Courtroom drama is amazing as long as executed correctly. ...more A compulsively readable legal thriller about a cynical defense attorney who works out of his Lincoln town car (hence the title) and begins to believe he has finally found that most dreaded and improbable of all clients, an innocent man. Although this novel has its share of darkness, it is much lighter in tone than Connelly's equally absorbing Harry Bosch detective novels. I found Mickey Haller's brash personality and breezy delivery an unexpected--and welcome--change. this is my michael connelly tally so far: i have read two harry bosch and two mickey haller. i barely remember the harry bosch. the mickey haller dug a hole in my mind. this is not how things should be. harry bosch is michael connelly's hero. harry and i, though, do not connect; mickey and i are two peas in a pod. if he were real, i would very much like to be friends with mickey, though i doubt he'd want to be friends with me -- not because he wouldn't like me, but because he's the loner type an this is my michael connelly tally so far: i have read two harry bosch and two mickey haller. i barely remember the harry bosch. the mickey haller dug a hole in my mind. this is not how things should be. harry bosch is michael connelly's hero. harry and i, though, do not connect; mickey and i are two peas in a pod. if he were real, i would very much like to be friends with mickey, though i doubt he'd want to be friends with me -- not because he wouldn't like me, but because he's the loner type and doesn't seem to like to hang out, unless it's for work, and i would have nothing to offer him. unless i were a client, which i most definitely would not want to be (it would involve either being a criminal or being someone who's unjustly accused of being one). the mickey haller legal thrillers read more like hardboiled noir than legal procedurals. even the courtroom scenes are hardboiled. hardboiled feature number one: even though he's exceedingly successful as a criminal defense lawyer, mickey is considered a sleazeball, even by himself. as he tells us repeatedly, the cops don't like him and he has incurred the wrath of judges and of the california bar more than once. we, however, see nothing of this. in the novels, mickey seems ethical to a fault. the air of bad boy lingers constantly around him and we all smell it, even if we don't know where it comes from. hardboiled feature number two: he defends shady characters and his investigative work is a key part of the action, even though in both books he farms it out to proper investigators. mickey haller may be a lawyer, but for most of the book he plays private eye. hardboiled feature number three: he's a terrible father and he apparently seriously pissed off his first wife and mother of his daughter, even though, just like in hardboiled feature number one, we have no idea what he could possibly have done to piss her off. well, we do have some idea. because, hardboiled feature number four, mickey is entirely his own guy: he does what he thinks he should be doing regardless of hours and time and social obligations. like a true hardboiled sociopath, he's solely focused on his work. i suppose that would make him an asshole if you were married to him. he'd be the husband you never see, who stands you up, who comes home at 3 AM but cannot tell you where he was. also: mickey likes to drink alone. he drinks in bars and only when life is so sucky that you really have to. he drinks a lot of coffee and has breakfasts in cafes and sandwiches in his car. and here's the clincher: mickey doesn't have an office. he spends his workdays in the back of a lincoln driven by one of his deadbeat clients who is paying off a debt by being mickey's driver, or having meetings with clients in prisons, restaurants, bars, and, rarely, homes. never his. mickey is intensely about the money. his one and only reason to practice the law is to make money. unfortunately, he's remarkably unsuccessful at it because he's, you know, nice. and ethical. and his own man. i find mickey haller one of the most simpatico characters i have encountered in mystery fiction. i never remember what simpatico means in english but in italian it means charming and fetching and cool. likeable. i like that mickey has all these theories about the law and the practice of the law and the conduct of the lawyer and, of course, life and people in general, but at the end of the day it's also a lot of facade and the guy is always treading the thin path between the \"what is right\" and the \"what i would like to be the case.\" he's a big teddy bear who likes to talk big and make himself look cool, but he can take it on the chin when things go wrong and turn his failures into jokes (though he knows how to be pathetic, too, and feel sorry for himself). i like that he is so blustery and self-assured and cocky while knowing all along that he's also a big fat loser. i like that being a big fat loser and knowing it doesn't put the slightest dent in his cockiness and self-assuredness. that's the way it should be. ...more I postponed reading <+++>The Lincoln Lawyer</+++> because I thought it was going to be a courtroom drama with excessive infodumps and tedious pacing. Boy was I ever wrong. Fortunately, my wife had the foresight to spring it on me as part of our annual must-read agreement for 2015. The law was a large, rusting machine that sucked up people and lives and money. I was just a mechanic. I had become expert at going into the machine and fixing things and extracting what I needed from it in return. Don\u2019t misunderst I postponed reading <+++>The Lincoln Lawyer</+++> because I thought it was going to be a courtroom drama with excessive infodumps and tedious pacing. Boy was I ever wrong. Fortunately, my wife had the foresight to spring it on me as part of our annual must-read agreement for 2015. The law was a large, rusting machine that sucked up people and lives and money. I was just a mechanic. I had become expert at going into the machine and fixing things and extracting what I needed from it in return. Don\u2019t misunderstand, though. This is a legal thriller, for the most part, but it also doubles quite deftly as a mystery / suspense novel. A gripping one, at that. Much of society thought of me as the devil but they were wrong. I was a greasy angel. The immediacy of first person narrative seemed to suit this story better than most. The protagonist comes across as either a sleazy defense lawyer or a loveable rogue (depending on the events being depicted at the time), but there is an enormous amount of character development as he starts questioning his own morality and reasons for doing what he does - the catalyst, of course, being the specific case that this novel deals with\u2026 It seemed so far-fetched that it might actually be true. And that bothered me. \u2026and it is a layered one. The Lincoln Lawyer is a pretty twisty novel. It has a few curveballs up its sleeve, for each time when you finally think you know where the story is headed. It\u2019s easy to see why this was made into a film (which, at the time of writing this review, I haven\u2019t seen yet). A cold shiver of fear pierced my chest. This one genuinely had my stomach knotted with tension a few times. It probably won\u2019t change the way I look at the world, but it was nigh impossible to put down and scratched that thriller itch just fine. \u201cHe\u2019s telling us that the devil did it.\u201d Recommended \u2013 an easy 4 and a half, without prejudice Read as part of \u201chave-to-read\u201d agreement with my wife \u2013 2015 ...more Damn this was a great book. <---A>Michael Connelly</---A>\u2019s 2005 introduction for veteran criminal defense lawyer Mickey Haller is a first page winner. Connelly\u2019s ability to write and this character\u2019s natural charisma were on full display from cover to cover. The movie tagline and the hook to draw readers in is Haller\u2019s use of a Lincoln to drive from courthouse to courthouse in and around Los Angeles, he basically works from his backseat. But this is only a groundbreaker to set the stage. Haller is a player, a Damn this was a great book. Michael Connelly\u2019s 2005 introduction for veteran criminal defense lawyer Mickey Haller is a first page winner. Connelly\u2019s ability to write and this character\u2019s natural charisma were on full display from cover to cover. The movie tagline and the hook to draw readers in is Haller\u2019s use of a Lincoln to drive from courthouse to courthouse in and around Los Angeles, he basically works from his backseat. But this is only a groundbreaker to set the stage. Haller is a player, a criminal defense attorney who knows how to work the system, good and bad, to get results. What stayed with me the most was Haller\u2019s use of the metaphor of a Machine as the judicial system. Haller describes himself as a mechanic, a gifted technician who knows how to operate the Machine to accomplish what he wants. This cynical allegory for our courts plays into Connelly\u2019s illustration of who Haller is and the world where he finds himself. But Haller is complex \u2013 he can fearlessly and skillfully deal with motorcycle gangs and prosecutors alike, but he is haunted by an earlier deal that left a possibly innocent man in prison. Mickey gets a \u201cfranchise client\u201d \u2013 a high dollar retainer all the way through to trial in the unlikely guise of a LA real estate playboy accused of brutally attacking a high priced call girl. But things are not as they seem and Haller finds himself in a complicated mess early on. Connelly plays the reader like an experienced cross-examiner, using an eye for detail and an ability to spin a great mystery into a very enjoyable novel. Reviewer Lyn likes it, what does lawyer Lyn say? I liked it. Being a small town lawyer, a lot of the big city dog-eat-dog machinations were lost on me, but it was fun to read. I can appreciate needing to hustle for fees and being one step away from disaster all the time, working through clients\u2019 problems daily. While my dealings with the DAs is more collegial than how Connelly describes the LA county bar, I can appreciate his realistic design. The only problem I have with some prosecutors is an \u201cus and them\u201d attitude, like there is a distinct line between good guys and bad guys. And while I concede that there are some really bad folks out there, I\u2019m simply an US guy. At the end of the day, Connelly tells a great story and plays it straight \u2013 the good, the bad and the ugly. Haller is a complex character, with flaws and failings and makes mistakes. Connelly shows that money wins, sad but true; time, energy and resources are needed for these kinds of cases and the writer tells that like it is. But he also sheds some light on lesser victories and a moral compass amidst a turbulent world. I\u2019ll most definitely read more from Connelly. ...more Ova knjiga me je odu\u0161evila dok sam je \u010ditala jo\u0161 u rukopisu... Bolja mi je od Hari Bo\u0161 serijala... :) A i film nije lo\u0161 :) It's extra exciting when you read a book you enjoy and know that there's plenty more from whence it came (read: it's part of a series). Thus, I'm pretty darn pleased to have made the acquaintance of the eponymous Lincoln-riding lawyer, Mickey Haller. Haller is a defense attorney of the \u201cBetter Call Saul\u201d variety. Criminals need lawyers, and if their money's green\u2026 He's a likable guy\u2014so likable, in fact, that neither of his ex-wives (prosecutor/baby mama Maggie McFierce, and super secretary It's extra exciting when you read a book you enjoy and know that there's plenty more from whence it came (read: it's part of a series). Thus, I'm pretty darn pleased to have made the acquaintance of the eponymous Lincoln-riding lawyer, Mickey Haller. Haller is a defense attorney of the \u201cBetter Call Saul\u201d variety. Criminals need lawyers, and if their money's green\u2026 He's a likable guy\u2014so likable, in fact, that neither of his ex-wives (prosecutor/baby mama Maggie McFierce, and super secretary Lorna Taylor ) treat him with the contempt typically associated with broken marriages. Heck, they're downright helpful. The case at hand involves wealthy Los Angelean and potential \u201cfranchise\u201d/big money client, Louis Roulet (rhymes with Robert Goulet). Roulet is on the hook for the assault of a working girl, and, of course, he's innocent. Right? It's hard to describe much without risking spoiler-ing (the first four paragraphs of James' review do a damn fine job of it). Since there's an overbearing mother, and a switchblade involved, and because I'm oh so predictable, I'll leave you with this. ...more Mickey Haller is a defence attorney that basically works out of his car. Mickey doesn't particularly care if his client is innocent or guilty. He cares more about the money and fame a trial can bring him. This changes when he takes on Louis Roulet's case. I found the story a bit slow to get into. At first I was often wondering when things would pick up. The beginning mainly introduces a lot of cases Haller has worked on and doesn't begin to get more interesting until about a third of the way thr Mickey Haller is a defence attorney that basically works out of his car. Mickey doesn't particularly care if his client is innocent or guilty. He cares more about the money and fame a trial can bring him. This changes when he takes on Louis Roulet's case. I found the story a bit slow to get into. At first I was often wondering when things would pick up. The beginning mainly introduces a lot of cases Haller has worked on and doesn't begin to get more interesting until about a third of the way through when a twist is thrown in. Towards the end, I found it difficult to put down; the ending took me by surprise! At times I found parts of the story a bit confusing. This may be to do with all the different cases talked about and how some of them sort of related to each other. There is also one aspect of the story that I am still a bit confused about, though I won't say what that is because it would be a spoiler! I really liked Mickey, despite disagreeing with his values. I also liked his relationship with his ex-wives and other characters in the novel. I think they were all developed quite well. This wasn't a bad story, but I didn't think it was awesome. Even though it was just ok I will read the next one because I would like to see how Mickey's character develops. ...more This is the book in which Michael Connelly introduced Michael Haller, a lawyer who works out of an \"office\" in the back seat of his Lincoln Town Car as he navigates the various courtrooms that dot Los Angeles County. Connelly got the idea for the character in a chance meeting at a Dodgers baseball game when he sat next to an attorney who did exactly that. Mickey Haller is a bright guy who works all of the angles. Mostly he represents drug dealers, prostitutes and other low-lifes, but except for t This is the book in which Michael Connelly introduced Michael Haller, a lawyer who works out of an \"office\" in the back seat of his Lincoln Town Car as he navigates the various courtrooms that dot Los Angeles County. Connelly got the idea for the character in a chance meeting at a Dodgers baseball game when he sat next to an attorney who did exactly that. Mickey Haller is a bright guy who works all of the angles. Mostly he represents drug dealers, prostitutes and other low-lifes, but except for the very occasional pro bono case, he takes only those clients who can afford the price of his services. And like all criminal attorneys, he has his eye out for the \"franchise\" case--the one that can pay him humongous fees. He believes he's found such a case when he's asked to defend Louis Roulet, the son of a wealthy family and of a mother who will do anything--and pay anything--to save her son from jail. Roulet is accused of assaulting a woman he met at a bar. Like all of Mickey's clients, he claims to be innocent. Specifically, he claims that the victim hit him over the head, beat herself up (or had someone else do it) and then planted evidence that would point the finger at Roulet so that after the criminal trial she could sue him for big bucks in civil court. The case quickly turns into something much more complicated and sinister than it originally appeared. Haller suddenly understands that genuine evil is present in this case, and he finds himself in an impossible situation. Watching him confront the case and attempt to produce a satisfactory conclusion is great fun. Haller, who has two ex-wives and a small daughter, all of whom still love him, is a very appealing character, which is doubtless why Connelly has turned him into a series character and why Hollywood jumped at the chance to make a movie of the book. Connelly proves himself to be as adept at writing legal thrillers as he is at writing more traditional crime fiction, and it's hard to imagine that any reader who likes either would not enjoy this book. *SPOILER ALERT* Do not read beyond this point if you want to read the book or see the movie without knowing the ending in advance. I first read this book several years ago when it was initially released, and I wanted to read it again before seeing the movie. Although Matthew McConaughey does not look remotely like the Mickey Haller I imagined in the book, he's very good in the role and after watching the movie for forty-five minutes or so, I readily accepted him as Mickey Haller. In fact, everyone in the movie is very good, particularly Marisa Tomei who plays one of Haller's ex-wives. The movie is as much fun as the book. I don't remember my initial reaction to the book's ending but while it's very exciting, both in the book and on the screen, it's hopelessly implausible and really makes no sense at all. Essentially what has happened is that Haller discovers that his client, Roulet, is actually guilty of the murder of a woman who was killed some years earlier. Haller defended the man accused of the murder and the evidence was stacked so heavily against him that Haller convinced the client to plead guilty to the crime as a way of getting a life sentence instead of the death penalty. Haller is furious when he discovers the truth and rigs the situation so that he gets Roulet acquitted on the assault charge but sets him up to be arrested for the original murder, thus freeing the former client from San Quentin. How he manages to do this makes great theater, but in the real world it couldn't possibly happen. The fact is that the police and the D.A. have a killer in prison who has confessed to the murder and who had a mountain of evidence that proved his guilt. The thought that they would ignore all of that and arrest and prosecute Roulet for the crime is laughable, especially based upon the flimsy evidence against Roulet that Haller has uncovered. One wishes that the justice system would work that fairly--that in a case like this the police and prosecutors would recognize their mistake and repair it--but sadly that's not the way the world works. All too often you read about some poor schmuck who's been railroaded into prison for a crime he probably did not commit--as often as not after a coerced confession--and then later someone else comes along and actually confesses to the crime. Even in such an extreme case, it practically takes an act of God to get the first guy exonerated, and often it doesn't ever happen. The thought that the police and D.A. would turn on a dime and act as they do at the end of this book and movie makes you shake your head. Some other equally implausible things happen at the end of the book and especially at the end of the movie, but still, if you can suspend disbelief, both are fun rides. I've enjoyed the subsequent Mickey Haller books, and I would happily see another Mickey Haller movie if it were done as well as this one. ...more \"You're a sleazy defense lawyer with two ex-wifes and an eight-year-old daughter and we all love you.\" That's not writing, it's a regurgitating a cliche, and this book is litter with them, like confetti at New Year's Eve. The trouble is that the over use of cliched speeches and actions obscure a page turner, a novel decked out with top flight characters and scenes place it on the top shelf of its genre. Overall, the book is worth reading, but you'll have to fight the cliche gag reflex at least a \"You're a sleazy defense lawyer with two ex-wifes and an eight-year-old daughter and we all love you.\" That's not writing, it's a regurgitating a cliche, and this book is litter with them, like confetti at New Year's Eve. The trouble is that the over use of cliched speeches and actions obscure a page turner, a novel decked out with top flight characters and scenes place it on the top shelf of its genre. Overall, the book is worth reading, but you'll have to fight the cliche gag reflex at least a few times. Connelly pushes the novel along at a brisk pace, unfurling a solid mystery and introducing of to a goodly number of minor characters, who are well drawn and captivating. Even if the minor characters don't add to the plot, they fill in the details of what life must be like for a criminal defense lawyer who dreams of living the good life but finds himself stuck cutting deals for drug dealers. Those characters have a way of grounding the novel, setting it in seamy L.A., a subculture hopefully far away from most people's lives. In this, etchings from the justice scene in L.A., Connelly gets the details right, largely due to his ability to make the minor characters and their actions reflect the time and place, and more importantly give some depth to the main character. Well done there Connelly, well done. Telling of Connelly's strength as a writer is his ability to make his leading character, criminal defense attorney Mickey Haller, seem likable even in the face of so many cops pointing out how Haller perverts the loopholes in the system to free clients, most of whom are guilty, guilty, guilty. Of course, Connelly does this by refusing to shine the good light on anyone who draws their salary from the state, the sole exception there being his ex-wife, a prosecutor who plays by the rules and pays for it by losing promotions to lesser qualified colleagues. There's a lesson there and you don't have to look hard to figure out what it is. Connelly uses the framework of a court room procedural to background his story, a similar to the police procedural formula that's worked well for Ed McBain and his 87th Precinct series. Yes, the story does build up to a big a courtroom trial, and yes Virginia, there are couple nice twists at end that reward the reader for putting up with a phrase or two that's a stale as yesterday's meatloaf. These more than enough here to mark me down as a Connelly fan, even if he falls into that \"nobody understands how important defense lawyers are for the wheels of justice to turn evenly and fairly\" claptrap. It's the only thing that drags the book down, but if crime is your genre, don't let this one get away. ...more Ok, ok...I may have watched the movie before reading this book. It could be my old age or the fact that I've been working my butt off lately, but I may have watched the movie twice BEFORE even thinking about reading this book. What can I say I like lawyer movies, and I like movies starring Matthew McConaughey, and I like movies starring Mr. McConaughey as a lawyer. I enjoyed the twists and turns the story took and wasn't sure they'd be as interesting in a book. The thing is that while the book do Ok, ok...I may have watched the movie before reading this book. It could be my old age or the fact that I've been working my butt off lately, but I may have watched the movie twice BEFORE even thinking about reading this book. What can I say I like lawyer movies, and I like movies starring Matthew McConaughey, and I like movies starring Mr. McConaughey as a lawyer. I enjoyed the twists and turns the story took and wasn't sure they'd be as interesting in a book. The thing is that while the book doesn't move as fast as the movie...and, the movie doesn't move fast at all...there are so many pluses to reading this book. #1 Characterization I like how Connelly writes Mickey Haller just as much as I like how McConaughey plays him. This guy is a truly flawed character who has his ex working for him and a tiny list of true friends to contrast his large Christmas list. I like that the book goes into detail about how guilty Haller feels about his failed marriage, failed relationships, failed relationship with his daughter and his guilt about being a lawyer who gets his money from living in the gray. #2 Setting From the car to the court house Connelly sets the scene so well that I understand how a Lincoln can be an office, I felt the Los Angeles heat and I was there in the courtroom and in the jail cells. #3 Believable Story In the end of this book not everything is tied up and Haller must struggle with the fact that doing good weighs more on his conscious than pretending good. I liked this book and am glad that I have found another serial novelist to sink my teeth into on those nights when I should be grading or writing lesson plans. The Lincoln Lawyer was my first Michael Connelly book, I look forward to reading more.I suppose I should start with the first one. I like when I read a book after watching the movie and the book, while it has a different feel than the movie, is just as enjoyable. This is definitely one of those books. I'll be reading more Connelly in the near future. ...more \"The Lincoln Lawyer\" is a gripping, character driven thriller, full of twists and turns that kept me interested right till the end. Haller is one of those characters that you cannot help but like. He is full of attitude, charisma and charm that allows him to use and manipulate the system just enough to make money and keep clients knocking on his door. With Haller it is not so much about justice as making the system work in your favour. And then that one case lands in his lap, the case that makes \"The Lincoln Lawyer\" is a gripping, character driven thriller, full of twists and turns that kept me interested right till the end. Haller is one of those characters that you cannot help but like. He is full of attitude, charisma and charm that allows him to use and manipulate the system just enough to make money and keep clients knocking on his door. With Haller it is not so much about justice as making the system work in your favour. And then that one case lands in his lap, the case that makes things personal. Haller must throw everything he knows and learnt over the years to save himself, in more ways than one. I have to say I loved how well Connelly wrote that story, it is not perfect, there are some flaws in plot but it is a great story and definitely worth reading. ...more I got the idea to read this from Nicholson Baker's article against Amazon's Kindle device where he said he had to finish reading this on his Kindle (despite disliking doing so on such a shoddy device) because he had to know what happened in the end. I'm not predisposed toward legal/crime thrillers as I think they're a bit too melodramatic and sensationalist (I was thinking of John Grisham). However it's an unfair generalisation as I hadn't read any books from this genre. So I picked it up not ex I got the idea to read this from Nicholson Baker's article against Amazon's Kindle device where he said he had to finish reading this on his Kindle (despite disliking doing so on such a shoddy device) because he had to know what happened in the end. I'm not predisposed toward legal/crime thrillers as I think they're a bit too melodramatic and sensationalist (I was thinking of John Grisham). However it's an unfair generalisation as I hadn't read any books from this genre. So I picked it up not expecting much, probably giving up after the court room scene where the lawyer does a Pacino and spouts on to the jury about how the system is corrupt, etc. Yawn, snooze. What can I say? Pleasantly surprised? No, in fact utterly gobsmacked! What had I been missing! Who was this writer?! Michael Connelly... the name was one of those you see in charity shelves alongside James Patterson and Andy McNab, an ubiquitous author, bound to be overpraised. I'd say \"The Lincoln Lawyer\" is the best novel I've read in a year. I can't complain about any aspect of the book - the characters were solid, the main character utterly likeable, believable and real, the plot compelling, the dialogue and descriptions, right down to the legal speak seemed authoritative and right (I'm not a lawyer so I can only say it sounded like he'd done his research). The whole setup of a lawyer in a lincoln town car, the pro with years of experience dealing with judges and bikers with complete confidence, was new to me and rich in story. Even Nicholson Baker's claim that he read the last hundred pages at a gallop in one sitting turned out true - actually for me it was more like the last 150 pages in one enjoyable sunny Sunday afternoon. I cannot recommend this book more. I'm not one for legal thrillers but this was a fantastic novel. I'm already deep into the sequel \"The Brass Verdict\" and have ordered Connelly's latest \"The Scarecrow\". I urge you to check this guy out, the man knows how to write. ...more Loved this book. It is a reread for me. I couldn't remember much of it since my copy is so old there is not even a cover picture for it on GR. lol. The first read was a few decades ago. The second time around was as good as the first time. Brilliant book: entertaining, high drama, court - thriller at its best. Believable and realistic. My kind of book. Great read. But I saw the movie first, then read the novel, a process that gave away some of the plot points. Oh well. The more hapless, fatalistic Mickey Haller in print differs from the cocky, slick attorney on the silver screen. So, I ended up liking the book more, although both make for first-rate entertainment. Mr. Connelly's writing is just so smooth, and I just flowed along with the story. I like that as a reader; I admire that as a writer. I'll be reading further in the series. WOW! What a great read that was. Great plot; clear and interesting characters; action, something happening every page; twists and turns; did I say great plot? To me it was one of the best books I've read in a long time and a first for me reading Michael Connelly. I've seen his name and books but never been too interested in the hyped and hightly marketed authors which I thought defined Connelly. I was just plain wrong. Connelly writes like I like and enjoy. He writes like a professional, clear a WOW! What a great read that was. Great plot; clear and interesting characters; action, something happening every page; twists and turns; did I say great plot? To me it was one of the best books I've read in a long time and a first for me reading Michael Connelly. I've seen his name and books but never been too interested in the hyped and hightly marketed authors which I thought defined Connelly. I was just plain wrong. Connelly writes like I like and enjoy. He writes like a professional, clear and clean. So I'm now on the Connelly band wagon. This new character, Michael \"Mickey\" Haller is a defense attorney and apparently the step brother to another established character who Connelly has been writing about for quite some time. A guy by the name of Bosch. I caught this right since I like reading from the beginning rather than starting a series in the middle. Most of Haller's clients appear to be guilty and he just 'finds a crack' which opens up a gray area of doubt which keeps them from prison. He's troubled that he may not recognize innocence when he sees it and he carries that as a very heavy burden. Having the 'perfect' client who can move him finanically to the top, the client quickly becomes a burden and places Haller in a untenable situation. Great book, skillful writing and a pleasure to read. Could hardly put the book down and looking forward to reading more of Connelly, hyped or not. I think not. He's too good so it's not hype. ...more Okay...so I'm surprised. I like this book. I picked it up out of curiosity and frankly don't even recall what it was that caused me that curiosity. But, I've found a good book and plan to go on to the next in the series. This book is about a man who in many ways is nothing like me. I don't like the kind of music he likes. I probably would never espouse the belief and \"ethical\" system he does (view spoiler) [ though he does find himself rethinking parts of it later in the book (hide spoiler) ] . I do Okay...so I'm surprised. I like this book. I picked it up out of curiosity and frankly don't even recall what it was that caused me that curiosity. But, I've found a good book and plan to go on to the next in the series. This book is about a man who in many ways is nothing like me. I don't like the kind of music he likes. I probably would never espouse the belief and \"ethical\" system he does (view spoiler) [ though he does find himself rethinking parts of it later in the book (hide spoiler) ] . I do however sympathize in some ways and agree with his take on his family, or at least the take on it he's coming to here. Mike Haller is a lawyer who mostly works from the back seat of his Lincoln Town Car. His only office is in his (heavily mortgaged) home and his associate who screens his calls and does a thousand other things is his \"2nd ex-wife who works from an office in her home.\" Haller's clients vary but mostly seem to be of the \"rougher\" and \"repeat\" sort. Of course here things take...a turn. And the story of the case that turn involves is what makes up this book. I find I have always liked \"good\" courtroom dramas and this is that with a lot more to it. I can I find with some slight reservations recommend this one. Try it...it drew me in and held my interest. Enjoy. ...more This has to be one of Connelly's best books ever simply for Haller's characterization. He's a defense attorney who is all about the money at the start & that changes for a variety of reasons over the course of the book. A: What's the difference between a catfish and a lawyer? Q: One's a slimy scum-sucking bottom-dwelling scavenger; the other is a fish. An old joke that's told several times. It's even used by Haller to great effect. I disliked him at the beginning of the book. By the end, I ca This has to be one of Connelly's best books ever simply for Haller's characterization. He's a defense attorney who is all about the money at the start & that changes for a variety of reasons over the course of the book. A: What's the difference between a catfish and a lawyer? Q: One's a slimy scum-sucking bottom-dwelling scavenger; the other is a fish. An old joke that's told several times. It's even used by Haller to great effect. I disliked him at the beginning of the book. By the end, I can't say that I liked him, but I was rooting for him & even respected him. Great, twisty mystery & well read. ...more It's been a very long time since I last read Michael Connelly. Way back when he was virtually unknown I had somehow heard about him and loved his first Harry Bosch novel The Black Echo. In fact, I still have a print of Hopper's famous Nighthawks on my wall, which I was inspired to buy because of that novel. I continued to follow Bosch through a few more novels, and they began to pale for me somewhere around The Concrete Blond. Then came a new character with The Poet , which was fantastic. There were It's been a very long time since I last read Michael Connelly. Way back when he was virtually unknown I had somehow heard about him and loved his first Harry Bosch novel The Black Echo. In fact, I still have a print of Hopper's famous Nighthawks on my wall, which I was inspired to buy because of that novel. I continued to follow Bosch through a few more novels, and they began to pale for me somewhere around The Concrete Blond. Then came a new character with The Poet , which was fantastic. There were waves of unease that continued long after I had finished it. A few years after that, I read The Narrows , which was a follow-up to The Poet and it kind of fell flat for me. So now comes another new character with The Lincoln Lawyer. I was pretty excited to get into this one as it was well received by reviewers and a movie with considerable buzz had been made from it. What I liked the most about this novel was the lead character. I didn't necessarily like him, but the fact that he was unabashedly in it for the money was a refreshing change from the squeaky clean defense lawyers we've come to expect from legal thrillers. Mickey Haller does have some conscience, though: his worst clients are the ones who you know are innocent. These are cases you cannot lose for fear of seeing an innocent person sent to prison. But for Haller, winning a case for an innocent client is also a loss. It's a loss of the gravy train. Haller's bread and butter is the \"franchise\" client: he's guilty, and if he's well off, the payday can roll out through investigations, pre-trial, trial, and appeals. So, yeah...a very cool basis for a character. Unfortunately for me, this story didn't deliver the punch-in-the-gut I like to receive from legal thrillers. The story was pretty good, it certainly kept me engaged, but for the most part it was a pretty light read, and to be honest, a too easy effort from a writer I expect bigger things from. I'm glad I read it, but I'm not inclined to read more of him. ...more I chose to review the audio book and in my opinion, if you're going to read this book in any form, the audio book is the way to go. Narrated by Adam Grupper, a voice is given to Mickey Haller that is a perfect fit. Mr. Grupper transitions between characters in an eloquent and believable manner. His enunciation and the fluidity with which he speaks is simply mesmerizing. I could listen to that voice all day long. Michael Connelly has taken The Lincoln Lawyer above and beyond most thrillers out th I chose to review the audio book and in my opinion, if you're going to read this book in any form, the audio book is the way to go. Narrated by Adam Grupper, a voice is given to Mickey Haller that is a perfect fit. Mr. Grupper transitions between characters in an eloquent and believable manner. His enunciation and the fluidity with which he speaks is simply mesmerizing. I could listen to that voice all day long. Michael Connelly has taken The Lincoln Lawyer above and beyond most thrillers out there and leaves the reader begging for more of his work. With such strong willed and well developed characters as Mickey Haller, Connelly gives the main character depth and emotions you don't see in very many lawyers. The reader can relate to the way that Haller manipulates his way through his clients, the legal system and at times, his friends. This was a cleverly written book that will make you think and in my opinion, Mickey Haller could do no wrong. The climax of this book was a combination of twists and turns between lies and deceit. The Lincoln Lawyer was a bite your nails while sitting on the edge of your seat read. Outstanding! If I could pick the best audiobook that I have ever listened to, The Lincoln Lawyer would be it. Spectacular, intense, action packed and filled with manipulation, The Lincoln Lawyer is everything that I could have ever wanted in a book and then some. I have to say that this book opened my eyes as to just what can happen in the legal system. The Lincoln Lawyer is a fresh, mind tingling read that you simply cannot miss. ...more Great book, but was disappointed in the movie. Stephen King recommended book and author. He says: \"The Lincoln in question is one of a fleet in which Mickey Haller rides while doing business on the sleazier side of L.A. law. What's amazing about Michael Connelly is how much he continues to learn about the art of narrative from book to book. Each one is better than the last. And this one is \u2014 pardon me \u2014 a real Cadillac.\" 12/14/11. Finally getting around to writing a short note about my impression of this book. Seems I've been getting in a lot Stephen King recommended book and author. He says: \"The Lincoln in question is one of a fleet in which Mickey Haller rides while doing business on the sleazier side of L.A. law. What's amazing about Michael Connelly is how much he continues to learn about the art of narrative from book to book. Each one is better than the last. And this one is \u2014 pardon me \u2014 a real Cadillac.\" 12/14/11. Finally getting around to writing a short note about my impression of this book. Seems I've been getting in a lot of 4-star reads lately, and this one was no exception. I kept putting off reading it because I was judging the book by its cover and title. I'm not generally into court-room dramas, but this one was an exception. It was hard to like the lawyer, as he was a bit of a scum-bag, but I ended up caring about him anyway. Plus, the mystery was pretty darn good with some good twists here and there. ...more Michael Connelly is my go-to guy for \"mainstream\" fiction (I read mainly sf/f) his twists and turns are often unpredictable, but more importantly his characterization is vivid and there is a lot of compassion and humanity in his books. The Lincoln Lawyer is as good as the best his Harry Bosch books, the protagonist Mickey Haller is believably flawed and yet likable. Read this book before you see the (quite good) movie version to get all the nuances that could not be filmed. As legal thrillers go this one is first-rate. It's a well-paced character driven story. The only regret that I have is that I had the movie tie-in version and had to look at Matthew McConaughey's movie star mug every time I picked up the book. I enjoyed this read more than I thought I was going to, not being a big fan of lawyer based books. Micky Haller has his own quirky personality and his own code of ethics. He is somewhat cynical, and has always been afraid that he would not recognise true innocence if he ever came across it. Perhaps what he should have been afraid of is that he would not recognise true evil if he came across it. he has his pet clients, some of whom he even defends for free. But it is a hard living, and one that ha I enjoyed this read more than I thought I was going to, not being a big fan of lawyer based books. Micky Haller has his own quirky personality and his own code of ethics. He is somewhat cynical, and has always been afraid that he would not recognise true innocence if he ever came across it. Perhaps what he should have been afraid of is that he would not recognise true evil if he came across it. he has his pet clients, some of whom he even defends for free. But it is a hard living, and one that has him permanently behind on his mortgage payments and with little time to spend with his daughter. When a Beverly Hills rich boy is arrested for brutally beating a woman, Haller has his first high-paying client in years, and he intends to milk it to his full advantage. It's a franchise case and he's sure it will be a slam dunk in the courtroom. For once, he may be defending a client who is actually innocent. But soon, things begin to not add up, and then his main investigator is murdered for getting too close to the truth. Haller quickly discovers that his search for innocence may have taken him face-to-face with true evil and put his family at risk. Aside from the fact that this book was far too long as Haller reminisces about past cases and crooks, it was a good read. The narrator did a good job, and once I got into the flow of the plot it kept me interested. ...more This is one of the book in which author doesn't spend much time or pages to set the plot, within 20 pages you are sure about the plot. The are certain books, where protagonist is portrayed as idealistic personality but not in Lincoln lawyer so this book sounds realistic. Also, very pertinent details not much of the time spent to explain the surroundings or buildings or just to add length. You will not feel like any page or chapter was added unnecessarily. Very fast and brilliantly written. As th This is one of the book in which author doesn't spend much time or pages to set the plot, within 20 pages you are sure about the plot. The are certain books, where protagonist is portrayed as idealistic personality but not in Lincoln lawyer so this book sounds realistic. Also, very pertinent details not much of the time spent to explain the surroundings or buildings or just to add length. You will not feel like any page or chapter was added unnecessarily. Very fast and brilliantly written. As the book proceeds you will be able to relate with Mickey Haller, just like any other human being has his flaws and he does what he can to make a living as a defense attorney. He confides that his father, who was also an attorney, had a place in his heart for helping the less fortunate. And he tries to follow his father's footsteps. The are twist and tales in the book which will keep you glued till the end, it is one of riveting book i have read in long time. The are two ways to look at crime thriller, where a person confesses the crime or the series of events make him confess or confrontations, I generally like the latter part so although i wanted to like more but couldn't. So 4 stars. If you are into courtroom and legal fictions, just go for it blindly ...more 4.5 Stars Finally have the time to put my thoughts on this novel that introduces Michael Haller - the Lincoln lawyer - down. This was a very enjoyable, fast, and suspenseful; all trademarks of author, Michael Connelly . Some twists I was completely blindsided, and that is a very good thing. I enjoy this series, but my heart belongs to Harry Bosch - Haller's half brother. Michael (Mickey) Haller is working out of his Lincoln Town car and has a fleet of them. He is getting by and waiting for that \"fr 4.5 Stars Finally have the time to put my thoughts on this novel that introduces Michael Haller - the Lincoln lawyer - down. This was a very enjoyable, fast, and suspenseful; all trademarks of author, Michael Connelly . Some twists I was completely blindsided, and that is a very good thing. I enjoy this series, but my heart belongs to Harry Bosch - Haller's half brother. Michael (Mickey) Haller is working out of his Lincoln Town car and has a fleet of them. He is getting by and waiting for that \"franchise\" client - the one that can afford his Schedule A fees, regardless of that client's guilt or innocence. His father's worst nightmare - an innocent client has not materialized in Haller's world, yet. He's sure he would recognize innocence. He makes the best deals for his clients when necessary - and that's most of the time. He is just part of the system - a cog. But when he discovers something in an old case - he finds himself in a legal as well as a moral dilemma. One client is actually innocent! Is it the new client accused of brutally attacking a young woman or an old client that accepted a plea deal for a murder he confessed to. One is innocent, the other is the Devil. ...more The Lincoln Lawyer , a legal thriller, departs both in character and genre from Connelly's crime-fiction series starring Harry Bosch. As it turns out, Bosch and Haller are half brothers__a convenient device to link the novel to Connelly's popular series. Critics agree that his new character__a man who finds holes in the system to aid guilty clients and is forced to question his own moral code__is just as compelling as Bosch. In fact, notes The Oregonian , the novel \"seduces us into rooting for a g The Lincoln Lawyer , a legal thriller, departs both in character and genre from Connelly's crime-fiction series starring Harry Bosch. As it turns out, Bosch and Haller are half brothers__a convenient device to link the novel to Connelly's popular series. Critics agree that his new character__a man who finds holes in the system to aid guilty clients and is forced to question his own moral code__is just as compelling as Bosch. In fact, notes The Oregonian , the novel \"seduces us into rooting for a guy we detest.\" As usual, Connelly paints a convincingly shady world of flawed heroes, prostitutes, real estate agents, drug dealers, and cops, all the while delving into legal ethics, court procedures, and media issues. It's a fast-paced, unpredictable ride. This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine . ...more Michael Connelly's \"The Lincoln Lawyer\" is a terrific page-turner that serves us a palate of thrilling courtroom drama to be savoured. It is also a fitting introduction to the character of Mickey Haller, a defense attorney who, despite all his failings, is very much likeable. Despite having watched the movie starring Matthew McConaughey before, Connelly's storytelling ability held me in its sway right from start to end while helping me to understand the details of the case much better. All in al Michael Connelly's \"The Lincoln Lawyer\" is a terrific page-turner that serves us a palate of thrilling courtroom drama to be savoured. It is also a fitting introduction to the character of Mickey Haller, a defense attorney who, despite all his failings, is very much likeable. Despite having watched the movie starring Matthew McConaughey before, Connelly's storytelling ability held me in its sway right from start to end while helping me to understand the details of the case much better. All in all, the book stands out for its brilliantly-plotted narrative & the sheer cunning with which the protagonist strives to work his way around the legal dilemmas he faces. Five stars. Highly recommended for fans of legal thrillers & suspense-filled courtroom dramas. ...more This is one of the best books that I have read in the past few years. From the very first page, the reader can identify with Mickey, the protagonist, and what he has to go through to maintain his ambulance-chasing law practice and make a living. Connelly has a taught thriller where the tension and the stakes are constantly going up. Mickey is a clever lawyer but sometimes too clever. His Golden Goose client turns out to be more than he had in mind. Connelly shows that he is the master of the thri This is one of the best books that I have read in the past few years. From the very first page, the reader can identify with Mickey, the protagonist, and what he has to go through to maintain his ambulance-chasing law practice and make a living. Connelly has a taught thriller where the tension and the stakes are constantly going up. Mickey is a clever lawyer but sometimes too clever. His Golden Goose client turns out to be more than he had in mind. Connelly shows that he is the master of the thriller with this book. He will do his fans (which includes me) a great favor if he writes another one with this character and with the same gripping style. ...more", "Title": "The Lincoln Lawyer"},
