{"Comments": "Review for this book is below the PSA. The PSA does not have anything to do with the book but a TOS policy change that Goodreads deemed not to tell their faithful users.<---F> This book started out strongly</---F>. Despite the protagonist being a brat (<---B>the throwing hissy fits kind</---B>) I was very into the story. However, when it got to the middle and she completely forgot about the family she loved because \"ooooo cute boy\" and the plot seemed to focus purely on her crushing on said boy they lost me. And the ove Review for this book is below the PSA. The PSA does not have anything to do with the book but a TOS policy change that Goodreads deemed not to tell their faithful users. This book started out strongly. Despite the protagonist being a brat (the throwing hissy fits kind) I was very into the story. However, when it got to the middle and she completely forgot about the family she loved because \"ooooo cute boy\" and the plot seemed to focus purely on her crushing on said boy they lost me. And the overuse of the word \"foxy\" made me want to hit something. There was some SMASH BANG excitingness at the end but then it went into mopey melodramatic girl mode again. SPOILERS BEYOND THIS POINT (BRIEF SPOILERS & MINI RANT) Seriously I can't stand when girls are like \"Oh my relationships over I just want to die now.\" Nothing in books makes me ANGRIER. I've never called myself a feminist but this boy-centric female protagonist that is so common in paranormals makes me feel like one. It needs to stop! Girls should not lay down and hope to die just because a boy has left them. And it bothers me that women are the ones writing these weak female characters. ...more Sooo, after finishing <+++>Switched</+++> I realized 2 things: 1. I'm officially in love with <---A>Amanda Hocking</---A> 2. Trolls are hot (3. I also suspect that I am a troll due to the hair thing, but I haven't found any proof yet. I'm looking on it.) \u201cDid you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers,<---M> and I'd just be like</---M>, yeah, that sounds right.\u201d Wendy Everly, a girl whose mother tried to kill her when she w Sooo, after finishing <+++>Switched</+++> I realized 2 things: 1. I'm officially in love with Amanda Hocking 2. Trolls are hot (3. I also suspect that I am a troll due to the hair thing, but I haven't found any proof yet. I'm looking on it.) \u201cDid you think you could treat me like shit at a dance, then sneak into my room in the middle of the night and tell me that I'm a troll with magical powers, and I'd just be like, yeah, that sounds right.\u201d Wendy Everly, a girl whose mother tried to kill her when she was six and always thought that she was living someone else's life finds out that she is indeed living someone else's life, because she is a changeling , a child that is exchanged in secret for another child. Of course there is more, and she feels quite astonished when she is also told that she is a troll (although she isn't green), a royal one, the heir of the Trylle kingdom. So Wendy has to move into a palace with a cold mother when everyone prays for her downfall and another tribe wants to kidnap her for reasons unknown. And she has to fight her feelings for her sexy tracker/bodyguard, Finn. It is fun. It is so much fun. This series is the reason why all my friends call me troll-lover, but I'm not particularly concerned because if Finn was my lover, they would be concerned. And jealous. *cue evil laughter* I must admit I never thought I would want to be a troll or that a writer could make them such interesting and fascinating creatures , but Amanda did it! I loved the fast pace and the mythology and the twists in the story, Switched was an easy and entertaining read that made me forget stupid reality and stupid reality stuff! \u201cI look at you because I can't look away Wendy. That's kinda creepy. I will work on being less creepy then.\u201d I found Wendy irritating most of the times because she kept on acting before thinking and she was quite immature, but there were signs of development, plus her life was not an easy one, so I'm giving her the benefit of doubt. But I can't understand why everyone is keeping her in the darkness! Wouldn't everything be easier if they just told her what she needed to know in order to acclimate to her new life and try harder to rule someday? Just saying! I liked Finn, but I don't like the way the things between them are heading,even though I enjoyed the tension. Their love is not a healthy one. Tove is becoming one of my favorite characters, and so are Willa, Matt and <---C>Rhys</---C>! Elora, well, I'm not that fond of her but I bet there is an explanation for her behavior! To all paranormal fans all over the world, Trylle is an exciting world to dive in!! ...more A more formal (and better xD) review of this is available on my blog. Check it out! _______________________________________ I hadn't had a book infuriate me this much since A Beautiful Dark . So Wendy Everly finds out she's a changeling switched at birth, and that she's actually one of the Trylle\u2500a.k.a. trolls. She's also a princess. Every. Single. Character. In this book. Expected her to know everything about Trylle life already. Nobody even educates this girl. Sometimes Finn, the hero, tries to, bu A more formal (and better xD) review of this is available on my blog. Check it out! _______________________________________ I hadn't had a book infuriate me this much since A Beautiful Dark . So Wendy Everly finds out she's a changeling switched at birth, and that she's actually one of the Trylle\u2500a.k.a. trolls. She's also a princess. Every. Single. Character. In this book. Expected her to know everything about Trylle life already. Nobody even educates this girl. Sometimes Finn, the hero, tries to, but then they end up making out or some other annoying romantic activity. Wendy was so damn unlikable. She was close to being a TSTL heroine. When her mother, Elora, yelled at her about the stupidest things, she just stood there and took it. She needs to learn to stand up for herself. -_- I would've probably liked her, or at least respected her more, if she would just stop letting that bitchy mother of hers to treat her like fecal matter. I didn't like the characters, the story, the romance, nothing. But a friend of mine told me that it gets better in the sequel. I do see some potential in this series, I guess. I'd probably still read the sequel, just to see if it really gets better. I mean, I got a copy of it already. I bought it at the same time I got this one. I guess I just had high hopes for this series. :/ ...more Please check out Electrifying Reviews for more reviews like this, plus giveaways, interviews, and more! By now, practically everyone knows Amanda Hocking\u2019s story. Self-published wonder turned multi-millionaire, now with multiple book deals. Before all of the hoopla, I read a little book called Switched. Even before all of the fame, I loved this book. So, of course, when it was re-released, I absolutely had to read it again. And let me tell you, I loved it even more this time around! Switched is ex Please check out Electrifying Reviews for more reviews like this, plus giveaways, interviews, and more! By now, practically everyone knows Amanda Hocking\u2019s story. Self-published wonder turned multi-millionaire, now with multiple book deals. Before all of the hoopla, I read a little book called Switched. Even before all of the fame, I loved this book. So, of course, when it was re-released, I absolutely had to read it again. And let me tell you, I loved it even more this time around! Switched is extremely readable and entertaining. Both times I\u2019ve read it, I\u2019ve gotten pulled into the story immediately, and my eyes are glued to the pages until the book is done. The Trylle society is original and intricate, and I loved reading about the complexities of it, and how Wendy fits into all of it. Amanda Hocking has a smooth, exciting writing style. I\u2019ve never read something by her I haven\u2019t enjoyed immensely, even her blog posts! Her ability to create something so fun, yet thrilling in its own way is unique. I cannot wait to see where she goes in life, because I\u2019m sure that her recent surge in popularity is not temporary. Wendy is a strong-willed girl, and reading Switched from her perspective was a joy. She is in a tough position, but she doesn\u2019t budge when it comes to what she believes in, and I appreciate that. The other characters are completely enjoyable, and I loved them, and their interactions with each other. The Princess Diaries meets Tithe in Switched, the highly imaginative, immensely enjoyable novel from Amanda Hocking, an up-and-coming talent. I have nothing but love for Switched, and cannot wait to continue the story with Torn. ...more Trolls! I know, right? Flashy colorful hair, so-ugly-they're-cute dolls we all had at one point? In Amanda's world, these are all misconceptions. They're called Trylle, and they're beautiful, magical and on the brink of extinction. With an entirely unique lore, Switched is able to stand out from all the other paranormal books available. I was fascinated by the Trylle mythology: How they lived, the monarchy, their custom of switching babies at birth. It was absolutely creative. Into this world co Trolls! I know, right? Flashy colorful hair, so-ugly-they're-cute dolls we all had at one point? In Amanda's world, these are all misconceptions. They're called Trylle, and they're beautiful, magical and on the brink of extinction. With an entirely unique lore, Switched is able to stand out from all the other paranormal books available. I was fascinated by the Trylle mythology: How they lived, the monarchy, their custom of switching babies at birth. It was absolutely creative. Into this world comes a collection of commendable characters that are both well developed and easily likeable - even a select few that are fun to hate. Wendy has a big personality. She's had a difficult, traumatic childhood, but that only made her stronger for the wear. She doesn't let anyone manipulate her. She's sympathetic and kind. All of which make her really relatable. I enjoyed going through her dilemmas with her. The stressful demands of becoming a princess overnight, the boy she's falling for- it was all delightful. Almost like a modern day fairy tale. Yes! The wonderful boys! From sweet to sweaty, Wendy has got more than her pick of lovely bachelors to chose from. I absolutely loved how the romance was played out in Switched. It's passionate and heartbreaking. It doesn't fall with the clich\u00e9s of today's YA novels. It's unexpected - true to life. Truthfully, I devoured it and I can't fathom choosing a team. She can have them all, right? While there is still good story development, I did find some parts of the book were a bit slow. A good portion is dedicated to character and world building, however the book does not completely suffer from \"first book syndrome\" it does have its own beginning, middle and end, but I think the rest of the trilogy will be much more action packed with powerful plot twists. With this admirable debut, Amanda Hocking has begun a trilogy that has immense potential. Switched is just as beautiful inside as it is on the outside (definite cover lust) and I highly recommend it! -- For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads ...more First off, Switched is really gorgeous. Just look at the cover. Isn't it so beautiful? I personally chose this edition because the cover has some work of magic in it. It's like, it has an ability to suck me into its world. Beautiful! Second, the premise is really, really good. I love fae stories, and trolls are something new to me. I wanted to know more about trolls because I really find them interesting. And of course, the fact that the female character Wendy Everly is a troll and a changeling , First off, Switched is really gorgeous. Just look at the cover. Isn't it so beautiful? I personally chose this edition because the cover has some work of magic in it. It's like, it has an ability to suck me into its world. Beautiful! Second, the premise is really, really good. I love fae stories, and trolls are something new to me. I wanted to know more about trolls because I really find them interesting. And of course, the fact that the female character Wendy Everly is a troll and a changeling , I knew I will really like this book. So, was this book a yay or nay? I must say, a little bit of both. I love it because honestly, Amanda Hocking 's writing style is so flawless and very easy to read. She uses words that are light and undemanding. She doesn't complicate everything and she doesn't give me trouble analyzing such things. Her character and world-building is also non-complex. What you read is what you get. Now what made me become (a little) bit disappointed was the plot . It was neatly done, but it was weak. The progression was poorly established. I think there were scenes that weren't really necessary but they were given emphasis (I guess to lengthen the whole book) but to be honest, the interesting things only happened at the last few chapters of the book. Another thing that bothered me was the existence of the Vittras . These are the creatures that act as antagonists. They are Trylle's greatest enemies. In this book, their descriptions unfortunately didn't make an exceptional appeal. Their physicality was so vague. I couldn't really imagine how they look like. Do they look like human or something? My expectation for this book was also different. Because this book talks about trolls, I really expected to see some unworldly mythical creatures here. Creatures that look like these: Because we're talking about trolls, right? So why did I only see humans and no trolls at all? This is fantasy so I was looking for something different. Anyway, I understand it as I've read further, because the author eventually explained it through her characters that trolls don't really look mystical but instead, they look human. So yeah, I couldn't do anything about that. BUT STILL. I want to see REAL TROLLS . :-/ Nevertheless, the thing that absolutely lifted the whole story was Finn . This character is so amazing. I like him from the beginning up to the end. Even though he's brooding and he was quite snobby in most parts of the book, the gentleness and protectiveness in him were so tangible. I have nothing against Wendy, on the other hand. She's an okay character and she doesn't annoy me, but I think she needs some development . There were parts when she doesn't know what to do and she's very dependent to other people despite her extraordinary abilities. Hopefully her character will get better in the next books. As a whole, this book is good. I just think it needs more elements to make it really sensational. My friends who have already read this series told me that it's going to get better in the next installments, so we'll see. Good luck to me! (oh, it rhymes! ha!) Rating: 3 Stars ...more Picture this - a great life with a loving family,( with the exception of your mother trying to kill you when you were 5). and you're a total brat. all through out this book, i could picture Wendy whining and using her little gift of persuasion *sarcastic ooooh and ahhh* to get her way. It was her own fault for not having friends and being miserable because she never freaking tried. Its a two way street honey. You're not THAT beautiful. speaking of which i was so fucking tired of her constantly g Picture this - a great life with a loving family,( with the exception of your mother trying to kill you when you were 5). and you're a total brat. all through out this book, i could picture Wendy whining and using her little gift of persuasion *sarcastic ooooh and ahhh* to get her way. It was her own fault for not having friends and being miserable because she never freaking tried. Its a two way street honey. You're not THAT beautiful. speaking of which i was so fucking tired of her constantly getting compliments. It seemed so fake and gag-worthy. ALSO, it was one of those stupid love stories. They know each other for about TWO WEEKS, and I'm led to believe the attraction is only physical, and i quote: \"my hands were trembling, and that familiar butterfly feeling Finn gave me spread throughout my body.(here comes the funny part) I was in love with him, and I wasn't going to give him up. Not for anything in this world or the next. \" WHAT THE FUCKKKK. WHO ARE YOU!? who. are. you. to be proclaiming your love for someone after TWO WEEKS and you barely even know him past his \"gorgeous\" face. and lastly. Wendy... go home. literally. You're maybe upset for about a day or two before you forget all about the family that loved and cared for your ungrateful little ass. I mean really. (view spoiler) [ and yes I know, her and Rhys run away, but she only leaves when Finn no longer works there and she cant get what she wants anymore. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Well, this was interesting. I've read and heard some much about Amanda Hocking lately - even an article on a major Italian newspaper - that I finally decided to give it a try. I'd like to start by saying that this is my second attempt at a self published author and the first one didn't go well. The other book I read was ALMOST HUMAN ~ The First Trilogy ~ 3-in-1 Edition and the main problem with it was the editing. The book was probably 150 pages longer than necessary and there was so much intern Well, this was interesting. I've read and heard some much about Amanda Hocking lately - even an article on a major Italian newspaper - that I finally decided to give it a try. I'd like to start by saying that this is my second attempt at a self published author and the first one didn't go well. The other book I read was ALMOST HUMAN ~ The First Trilogy ~ 3-in-1 Edition and the main problem with it was the editing. The book was probably 150 pages longer than necessary and there was so much internal monologue that I skipped and skipped and skipped. With Switched the fundamental problem is basically the same: editing. This book is better than the one I mentioned above but it still needs a professional hand working through it. It certainly does not need to be cut. On the contrary. It jumped from action to action to action without any character development at all. Wendy goes from finding Finn creepy to falling in love with him without maturing the feeling inside her at all. BAM! I've fallen for him. The dialogue is horrific at times, there are long parts where the characters are just bickering and repeating things over and over. The second part of the book was definitely better than the first. The writing flowed better, even the dialogue got better and I almost never \"furrowed my brow\" like the characters so many times did. I was kind of shocked at the end when the escape scene is described in approximately 20 lines. It felt like Hocking was tired of writing or had finished her word count for the day and decided to cut it short. Plotwise once again I can't really say this book was anything new or original. I appreciated the Troll theme - that is new - but the rest is pretty much standard in YA lit now. Finn, especially, reminded me of a mix of Patch from Hush Hush (the stalking) and Sonny from Wondrous Strange . Wendy I didn't like AT ALL. What a pain in the ass she is. She kind of sounds like a badass at the beginning and then she turns in this whiny, please-Finn-save-me thing. Tove and Rhys I liked, especially Tove, an interesting character with a lot of potential. Matt is a totally underdeveloped character and i'm guessing we'll see more of him in the next installment. All in all, I can say this book was OK. Considering it is self published it is even good. But I also think that Hocking needs to mature as a writer, get published and acquire some new ideas. I will be looking for her work in a few years time. ...more Ugghh! I like Amanda Hocking. I loved her series My Blood Approves , but this book was disappointing. Originally I tried to read this when it was first self published, and couldn't finish it. I got about halfway, put it down, thinking I have way too many better things to be reading right now than this troll book. It wasn't even like I hated it, I just got incredibly bored and got to a point where realized I didn't care about Wendy or what happens to her. So we know that recently it was republishe Ugghh! I like Amanda Hocking. I loved her series My Blood Approves , but this book was disappointing. Originally I tried to read this when it was first self published, and couldn't finish it. I got about halfway, put it down, thinking I have way too many better things to be reading right now than this troll book. It wasn't even like I hated it, I just got incredibly bored and got to a point where realized I didn't care about Wendy or what happens to her. So we know that recently it was republished and a lot of my friends have rated this book in the 4-5 star range so I began to wonder if I was missing something. I was also prompted to try the repubbed version because it was supposedly polished up a bit, and so I gave it another try. Well, that was stupid. I should have just trusted my instincts and known that just because so many other people enjoyed this book didn't mean I would magically change my mind about it. Also, I'm really happy for Amanda and all of her success so I just really wanted to like this series. I'm not going to go into too much detail about the things I liked or didn't like, because there are a large amount of points already made for both, but as a simple short list the things I didn't like were: Wendy, Wendy's Mom, the dialog What I liked was: Flynn, the originality of the story and the changeling aspect. The world was creative, but the story and characters didn't offer much. The synopsis really made this book seem interesting, too. Oh well. To those who love this series I would like to know why. This book didn't \"suck me in\" from the beginning, or even by halfway. ...more *Sigh* So I went into this with low expectations. I had heard that the books were riddled with typos, so on and etc. But I made the argument to myself that most people do. \"It's only $0.99.\" What I liked... 1. good pacing. The books have a zip-zip pace to them, and I think that's what draws a lot of people in. 2. There is a sense of playfulness. What I didn't like. 1. Trolls... treillings, whatever you call them. Just, really? I just couldn't get beyond the image in my head from a Merlin episode w *Sigh* So I went into this with low expectations. I had heard that the books were riddled with typos, so on and etc. But I made the argument to myself that most people do. \"It's only $0.99.\" What I liked... 1. good pacing. The books have a zip-zip pace to them, and I think that's what draws a lot of people in. 2. There is a sense of playfulness. What I didn't like. 1. Trolls... treillings, whatever you call them. Just, really? I just couldn't get beyond the image in my head from a Merlin episode where a troll posing as a queen seduces Uther and spends most of the episode eating rotten produce. Just ew. And there wasn't really an effort made (besides the snooty name change offered by the troll-mom) to adjust the reader. 2. The typos. But meh, not the end of the world. 3. The total inconsistency of the plot. The human brother is real the heroine. And the mom trying to kill the troll daughter... um, in a different story it would be completely justifiable and she would be the protagonist. Like, you have to suspend a great deal of brain power to be like \"okay, losing your son wouldn't make you crazy...\" because I think it would. 4. The reason for the switching... is disgusting. For money? Really? REALLY? That's the only reason. At the cost of a human child being separated from their family... I couldn't get over that. Finally, a lot of this would be justifiable if the writing was more complex or had just \"a bit more.\" But I think these books are representative of works too quickly written. Sigh, I wanted to like these more, but I can't recommend that anyone else read them when compared to the whole slew of books on the market that are bettered edited and written with more care. Overall, I'd give this book more like a 1.5, but I have zero desire to read the rest. ...more AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. AWFUL. That's the only word that comes to my mind when I remember this book. I read it ONLY because it had a gorgeous cover. What a stupid book! How can anyone write such crap? My two star rating really says it best... it was ok. As other reviewers point out, the story feels really rushed in the beginning. You don't get a chance to know the characters before you are thrown into the action. And for me, that is a pretty big flaw. I need to be interested in a character before I care what happens to them. In my opinion, this is yet another book jumping on the \"Twilight\" bandwagon. Angsty teenage girl moves to a new town, starts a new school, and is immediately attracted to My two star rating really says it best... it was ok. As other reviewers point out, the story feels really rushed in the beginning. You don't get a chance to know the characters before you are thrown into the action. And for me, that is a pretty big flaw. I need to be interested in a character before I care what happens to them. In my opinion, this is yet another book jumping on the \"Twilight\" bandwagon. Angsty teenage girl moves to a new town, starts a new school, and is immediately attracted to the dark mysterious boy who stares at her in class and treats her poorly. She starts to like him and low and behold he doesn't show up to school one day, but instead appears at her bedroom window. Then it is revealed that mysterious boy is actually not a boy but a mythical creature. The only major difference here is that the girl turns out to be one too. And even though there wasn't a really obvious love triangle happening in this first book, it's pretty easy to predict that there is one developing and it will probably appear in one of the next books. The use of \"Trolls\" was really weak as well. There was nothing at all interesting about them, and they basically were no different than humans except they are picky eaters, have messy hair and don't like to wear shoes. It really just felt like the author just used Trolls because vampires and werewolves have been so overused. And finally, a large dose of deus ex machina is given to us at the end of the story. (view spoiler) [Wendy decides to escape with Rhys, and when confronted with a fence surrounding the community Rhys suddenly \"remembers\" a hole in the fence whereby the two can exit. That same hole they conclude, was also used by the Vittra to enter said community. Two very important details that are conveniently solved by a sudden appearance of a hole in a fence. (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, the book is slightly entertaining even though the reading level seems much younger than YA. There is enough action and teenage romance that I'm sure some readers will enjoy the book more than I did. ...more Buddyread with Melissa (re-read for me) Melissa's review here She couldn't get into it but its all good:) ----- 2.5 to three stars Didn't love it as much this time around but it was a nice trip down memory lane, so to speak. Some things that didn't annoy me the first time did in this re-read and in some instances the world building had me shaking my head. Don't regret reading it again but I think I'll be giving my copies of the series away now. 'Switched\u2019 by Amanda Hocking caught my eye due to its high position on Amazon Kindle\u2019s bestsellers and it\u2019s awesome price of 99 cents. Without knowing a thing about the book other than the brief synopsis I read before I downloaded the story, and the overwhelming number of positive reviews, I figured it would be an awesome quick read. \u2018Switched\u2019 is about Wendy Everly, a girl who lives with her aunt and brother in an attempt to control the chaos of her life. Her mother, Kim, tried to kill her on he 'Switched\u2019 by Amanda Hocking caught my eye due to its high position on Amazon Kindle\u2019s bestsellers and it\u2019s awesome price of 99 cents. Without knowing a thing about the book other than the brief synopsis I read before I downloaded the story, and the overwhelming number of positive reviews, I figured it would be an awesome quick read. \u2018Switched\u2019 is about Wendy Everly, a girl who lives with her aunt and brother in an attempt to control the chaos of her life. Her mother, Kim, tried to kill her on her 6th birthday, and since then her life has been a downward spiral of changing homes and failed friendships. Within this backdrop we discover that Wendy has some peculiar abilities, and is given an opportunity by a mysterious boy, Finn, to move once again to a new place where she can finally fit in. However, if she decides to make the move she will have to leave behind her brother and aunt, the only two people who have ever cared about her. I\u2019ve only revealed the first 20 pages or so and it sounds like a decent story line right? However, once the story begins to progress you discover that it doesn\u2019t go anywhere. The plot never advances, the characters are underdeveloped, the conversation is so far away from colloquial it seems as if the \u2018speaker\u2019 is rummaging through a thesaurus before deciding on each word choice, and the romantic elements in the story make you cringe with the overwhelming amount of cheesiness. I suppose if you\u2019re into the new \u2018supernatural teen romance\u2019 genre that is emerging, this book could be for you. But for anyone that is not familiar with this genre, stay clear of this book. Wendy experiences \u20190\u2032 change throughout the book and the story ends literally and figuratively exactly where it began. I was astonished to see how many positive reviews this book received, and I understand that Hocking is not attempting to write a literary masterpiece that is applauded by college English professors, but to me, the story was barely enjoyable. My 99 cents would have been better spent on the \u2018Fruit Ninja\u201d app for my iPhone. On a bookshelf with 5 shelves\u2026 shelf 5 being the highest and best, it doesn\u2019t even make it to the shelf. ...more I read the Trylle trilogy back to back on Nook in a period of 2 days, so it is hard to rate each book individually. I downloaded Amanda Hocking's books in part due to her self publishing sucess story, and the .99 cent price for the first book. Once I read the first, I was hooked and had to keep reading. YA novels are indeed a guilty pleasure for me and this series was great. I often wondered how much better the books would be with a strong editor, but they were definitely worth reading as is. Gl I read the Trylle trilogy back to back on Nook in a period of 2 days, so it is hard to rate each book individually. I downloaded Amanda Hocking's books in part due to her self publishing sucess story, and the .99 cent price for the first book. Once I read the first, I was hooked and had to keep reading. YA novels are indeed a guilty pleasure for me and this series was great. I often wondered how much better the books would be with a strong editor, but they were definitely worth reading as is. Glad to have them on my Nook and they will definitely end up being on re-reading list the next time my brain is fried and I need some bubblegum reading. ...more Originally read: 6/21/2012 Reread: 2/19/2016 full review to come.... Alright, I don't know if I'm just super generous with my stars or if these are really good books. I loved this book I couldn't put it down! Something new and of course cheesy romance but clean. Well you hear all the time about changeling stories but about the human that is taken not the other way around! This time it's actually about the changeling itself, which was nice and was brought back to the world that they are actually fr Originally read: 6/21/2012 Reread: 2/19/2016 full review to come.... Alright, I don't know if I'm just super generous with my stars or if these are really good books. I loved this book I couldn't put it down! Something new and of course cheesy romance but clean. Well you hear all the time about changeling stories but about the human that is taken not the other way around! This time it's actually about the changeling itself, which was nice and was brought back to the world that they are actually from. It was a new story for me! I liked it a lot! I really like Wendy the main character. Her narration is really strong and I could just picture her so clearly. She's a genuinely nice, level headed person despite the fact that her mother tried to kill her when she was six and everybody keeps their distance from her. The storyline with her mother was so creepy and fascinating! Finn (another character you'll love) tells Wendy she is a changling and everything goes nuts after that! It was obviously a shock for Wendy and the reader to find out that her mother wasn't crazy at all- she was telling the truth when she said Wendy had been switched at birth. But it's creepy for a \"motherly figure\" in ANY book to try to kill a character which makes it creepy. So this Finn character is supposed to be her guide in the matter of her being switched and has come to \"collect\" Wendy and bring her back. However, it did seem that she missed out on many of the undercurrents of silent communication that ran from Trylle to Trylle, and definitely that of Elora, the queen. This could be attributed to her recent arrival, and her more important place in the Trylle hierarchy, especially since Wendy is not part of the Fey but is in fact a Troll! Now these trolls are elegant and beautiful and have awesome powers. Finn explains that he\u2019s a tracker, someone who goes out into the world and brings back the changlings; changlings in these books are the troll children who are switched out for other children. Intrigued? good! It was overall a fun cute book! so check it out! tell me what you think! I can't wait to start the next book! Language: Moderate (1 F-bomb and a few other choice words) Sexual Content: Mild Drugs/Alcohol: Mild Violence: Mild Overall: I would recommend it! ...more Me trying to rate book: Scans options. Me:\"OMG! I can't put 1 star!??? What is this!!\" Grabs book and glares at it. Takes out red pen. Smiles evily. Screams: \"Why isn't there a no star option!\" Tears out hair. OMG what a disaster! I am sooooooooooo glad I borrowed this at the library! Lately I have been really interested in the fey and this book even had a promising premise......which soon utterly failed. Big time. If you like: 1. Girls who define themselves as pretty and are self-obsessed 2. Girls who Me trying to rate book: Scans options. Me:\"OMG! I can't put 1 star!??? What is this!!\" Grabs book and glares at it. Takes out red pen. Smiles evily. Screams: \"Why isn't there a no star option!\" Tears out hair. OMG what a disaster! I am sooooooooooo glad I borrowed this at the library! Lately I have been really interested in the fey and this book even had a promising premise......which soon utterly failed. Big time. If you like: 1. Girls who define themselves as pretty and are self-obsessed 2. Girls who can't figure out why every man is not interested in them 3. A story whose plot suddenly washes down the drain the moment a \"foxy\" (hot guy in the characters slang. Really annoying, shall I say) dude shows up 4. A girl who believes obsessing over both herself and the love interest to the point where I am searching Google to see if she might have some disorder-sadly she doesn't but she does now. I call it the \"Bella Epidemic (and lately a lot of girl protagonists in YA seem to have been infected with said epidemic) 5. A book that will make your eyeballs shrink and threaten to die on you while reading 6. A book that has characters sooooo annoying you wouldn't mind killing something 7. Errors so blatantly oblivious it will make you glance at that red pen on your desk when you never even dreamed of writing in a book And so many more things to offer!!! If you are ready for an eye-twitching, hair-ripping, and prolonged- screeching- in- agony- and- frustration -of -such -stupid -characters-experience, then have fun.......... My eyes are still burning:( ...more Switched follows Wendy Everly, a teenage girl who had always felt awkward and out of place (her mother trying to kill her when she was six doesn't help her self-esteem much), into a journey to discover her true origin. First she was approached by Finn, a 'tracker' who insisted that Wendy was not human but a supernatural being --I won't reveal what kind of supernatural being she is, because her true identity is pretty much interchangeable with vampire/fairy/werewolf/alien, etc. You only need to r Switched follows Wendy Everly, a teenage girl who had always felt awkward and out of place (her mother trying to kill her when she was six doesn't help her self-esteem much), into a journey to discover her true origin. First she was approached by Finn, a 'tracker' who insisted that Wendy was not human but a supernatural being --I won't reveal what kind of supernatural being she is, because her true identity is pretty much interchangeable with vampire/fairy/werewolf/alien, etc. You only need to remember that as supernatural creatures, everyone in Wendy's race is beautiful, rich and possessed one psychic power or another. You know, just the same-old, same-old YA supernatural creatures trapping. Okay, maybe there're unattractive Trylles around, but they just totally escaped Wendy's notice anyway. And then Wendy left her adoptive human family (called 'host family' in the book) behind to follow Finn into the hidden world of Trylle. *plot spoiler warning* (view spoiler) [ From this point onward we are treated with Wendy's adjusting to her new home and into her new role as the Princess of her race. It's only the beginning of the story, and I already found myself running into troubles with the characters, plot development and the setting of the story. How many times had we ran into this 'ordinary girl turns out being a princess/queen/ruler of a supernatural race' settling before? It's overused, beat-to-death, tiresome, unoriginal and wish-fulfilling to the extreme. And the author, Miss Hocking lacks the skill to make that overused setup become refreshing or believable. For her entire life, Wendy was a misfit who had a crazy mom who tried to kill her, then one day she followed that hot guy (who she knew barely a thing about) to an entirely unfamiliar Trylle's community and was told that she was in fact the daughter of the ruling Queen of said community. She just sucked it all up? What about her adoptive family? From start to end Wendy's brother and aunt had been nothing less than loving, caring and self-sacrificing to her, and after she left them behind, she didn't spend a second to miss or worry about them, while knowing said brother and aunt must be worrying themselves half to death for her? Not even a phone call to tell them she's safe? (she made one brief phone call before she escaped, but that's more or less just this) What kind of person is that!? Then out of the blue, in around page 200 we're informed that Wendy had missed her adoptive family all along. What? I need to tell you the whole book is narrated in Wendy's first person POV, but I never see she did or feel anything to indicate that she missed her poor brother and aunt! She didn't spend a second to think about them, she never lost sleep thinking of them, she didn't try to contact them, plus said brother and aunt were barely in her thoughts as far as I can see. What a classical example for the 'Tell, not show' failure. There's one little detail about Wendy being unable to zip up her dress so she asked Finn to do it for her. Goodness, why can't she ask a maid to do this, or ask Finn to find her a maid to do this!? When a girl asked a guy to zip up or zip down her dress in her private room, that can only mean: (a) she's seducing him, (b) she's too stupid to realize her request is very suggestive and the guy might get the wrong message, (c) she's too stupid to realize her request is inappropriate and might make the guy feel uncomfortable. On top of it all, Finn was supposed to be Wendy's mentor and bodyguard, not a goddam lady in waiting! As to the reason why Wendy was sent to her adoptive family as a changling, it's even more questionable. The Everly family was chosen because they are rich and powerful, therefore Wendy's birth mother, Elora, figured that if she placed her daughter inside this family, it would ensure a large sum of inheritance slipping into the Trylle's possession eventually. So Elora just sent Wendy to the Everlys even knowing something might go wrong and Wendy might end up being harmed. And after Wendy learned all about it, she barely reacted to her mother's deception. Can this be serious? Plus after all the craps Elora and almost everyone else had dumped on her, after seeing firsthand how unjust and suffocating the Trylle's lifestyle is, it takes Finn's departure to boost Wendy into deciding her life as a Trylle was miserable and she wanted to escape? That makes her look like a lovesick little fool instead of a heroine with a mind of her own. (hide spoiler) ] *end of plot spoiler* Okay, to be fair; it's stated that Wendy was uncomfortable and/or angry about a few things which were viewed as normal practices in the Trylle's society: (a) the treatment of the human changlings, (b) the practice of sending Trylle's babies to rich human families for the inheritance, (c) Elora's cold treatment to her subjects. But the problem is, so far I still haven't seen Wendy actually spoke up or acted up for herself or the people around her, she just ranted about the things she didn't like and that's it. It makes her look very spineless. That's one more thing which bothered me: ever since Wendy's arrival to the Trylle's community, no one had ever been explaining to her what was going on or how she was supposed to behave. Not even Finn, who was supposed to care about Wendy and was appointed to Wendy as her tutor at the very first day, but the guy still failed miserably at teaching the poor girl anything of importance (e.g. the Trylle's politic, the social norms, the culture, how to protect herself, etc). But then whenever Wendy did or said something wrong, she was being snapped at not only by her mother, but also by Finn himself! God, I feel that Wendy was being treated worse than a three years old. But you know what? Whenever her mother or Finn hissed at her, Wendy just sucked it up and apologized like it was her fault that no one had taught her anything useful. That girl really had no backbone. There're a lot of description about designer gowns and fancy balls but not enough of world-building to make the Trylle's supernatural world outstanding. The Trylles are supposed to be able to wield magics of different sorts but this field was rarely explored since the noble Trylles refused to use their magic and everyone delayed teaching Wendy how to control her magic. (and Wendy didn't seem to be the slightest interested in using her power, neither) That makes the Trylles look like a group of self-important blue-bloods more than anything else. The pace of the story is also terrible, most of the book is taken up by the romance/tension between Wendy and Finn, and the long, detailed progress of Wendy's makeover (view spoiler) [as a princess (hide spoiler) ] , which makes me wonder whether I was reading The Princess Diaries instead of a story about 'a world both beautiful and frightening'. The events which took place in the book are disjointed. The supposed baddio, the Vittra, attempted to kidnap Wendy at the beginning of the story and then they were nowhere to be found till the ending part. To make things worse, nobody mentioned the threat from the Vittra or ever explained to Wendy what the Vittra really was! Goodness! A Princess who will soon to be Queen isn't supposed to learn about their enemy!? What the hell!? There's a bonus story \"The Vittra Attacks\" at the end of the book, which is meant to show us how things go on the Vittra's side, but this bonus story is very forgettable and not impressive in anyway. Secondary characters such as Tove and Willa capture my attention much more than the leads: Wendy and Finn ever can, I like Tove well enough and wish that he'd establish himself as a young man who has a mind of his own and the strong will and strength to change things around him in the sequels. But no, please don't drag him down by making him one of Wendy's love interests. Tove deserves better than this. As the story progresses, I also found it getting more and more difficult to suppress my disbelief, which resulting in me bursting out with \"What. The. Fxxk! It can't be serious!\", \"Hell, no fxxking way!\" and \"Fxxk, I can't believe he/she really did/said that!\" repeatedly. I hope it's enough to let you know how bad things had gone. I just don't understand why Switched can be so much of a failure when the setup has so much to offer: we have a crazy mother trying to kill her daughter, insisting said daughter is a monster, we have a confused girl trying to come to term with her new role, we have conflicts between the heroine and her powerful but unloving birth mother. The story could have been great, but the author failed to deliver, that's it. The Final Words: Don't buy this book or download it no matter how cheap it might be, it doesn't worth it even though the book cover is quite pretty. If you want to read books about the nobles of supernatural creatures, the Vampire Academy series has so much more to offer. ...more I will probably come back to this another day but at the moment I have just too much to read and do with so little time. REVIEW I read these three books back-to-back-to-back on my Kindle. The story had me so engaged, that I could not put it down. I was reading in the car, at school, on my bed, at the dinner table, and in the media room. You could call it an obsession. In this paranormal tale, Wendy learns at the age of seventeen that she is a troll. Oh, but she isn\u2019t just ANY troll, her past is filled with mystery, deceit, and some unexpected ancestors. Amanda Hocking carefully twisted this plot with all sorts of su REVIEW I read these three books back-to-back-to-back on my Kindle. The story had me so engaged, that I could not put it down. I was reading in the car, at school, on my bed, at the dinner table, and in the media room. You could call it an obsession. In this paranormal tale, Wendy learns at the age of seventeen that she is a troll. Oh, but she isn\u2019t just ANY troll, her past is filled with mystery, deceit, and some unexpected ancestors. Amanda Hocking carefully twisted this plot with all sorts of surprises. I guarantee that you have not read a series quite like this before. Plain and simple \u2013 Wendy rocks! She starts out unsure and confused. I mean, who wouldn\u2019t be questioning things if they just found out they were a troll. The beauty lies in how Wendy grows and changes. As her confidence grows, she becomes the girl (err troll) she was always meant to be. Let\u2019s talk romance. Wendy has more boy trolls after her than she keep track of. They are all nice in their own way, but they each have their unique traits. Finn is protective. Loki is a flirt. Tove is like a brother. I loved them all. If you are looking for a battle, you have come to the right place. Amanda Hocking has written some of the most epic battle scenes ever. Sure these scenes are filled with the physical battle, but they also contain the emotions behind the fight. They were so real that I could FEEL them. This series about trolls surprised and entertained me. I will definitely be looking for more Amanda Hocking books to read. RATING 5 Loved COVER COMMENTS I like how the covers are so similar and work together to tell the story. I also love the turquoise and black because it has a mysterious feel to it. ...more DNF. So, I really didn't like Switched. Here's the deal: Wendy is probably one of the most annoying protagonists I've ever read about. It's not that the story was boring, however much I read it - that wasn't it. I really didn't like the character s (plural), and if I don't, how can I read this book? Wendy is of the following: annoying, bratty, selfish, tantrum-y, conceited, and whiny. (enter tons of bad adjectives here.) Finn is of the following: trying-to-be-dark, trying-to-be-sexy, watches-protagon DNF. So, I really didn't like Switched. Here's the deal: Wendy is probably one of the most annoying protagonists I've ever read about. It's not that the story was boring, however much I read it - that wasn't it. I really didn't like the character s (plural), and if I don't, how can I read this book? Wendy is of the following: annoying, bratty, selfish, tantrum-y, conceited, and whiny. (enter tons of bad adjectives here.) Finn is of the following: trying-to-be-dark, trying-to-be-sexy, watches-protagonist-all-the-time, stalker , has no emotion, is a complete failure. (I don't like how authors like their guys to be alluring or sexy or emotionless bastards or whatever. Sure, it's cool sometimes ... and sexy, but it's becoming some sort of YA trend and the effect of it is wearing off. I want some BAD SEXY SARCASTIC WITTY guy.) The character I probably liked-ish was Matt. But for a self-published book? Nope. Not my cup of tea. ...more *** Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog *** Switched by Amanda Hocking Book One of the Trylle trilogy Publisher: St. Martin's Griffin Publication Date: January 3, 2012 Rating: 3 stars Source: Review copy sent by the publisher Summary (from Goodreads): When Wendy Everly was six-years-old, her mother was convinced she was a monster and tried to kill her. It isn't until eleven years later that Wendy finds out her mother might've been telling the truth. With the help of Finn Holmes, Wendy finds herself *** Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog *** Switched by Amanda Hocking Book One of the Trylle trilogy Publisher: St. Martin's Griffin Publication Date: January 3, 2012 Rating: 3 stars Source: Review copy sent by the publisher Summary (from Goodreads): When Wendy Everly was six-years-old, her mother was convinced she was a monster and tried to kill her. It isn't until eleven years later that Wendy finds out her mother might've been telling the truth. With the help of Finn Holmes, Wendy finds herself in a world she never knew existed - and it's one she's not sure if she wants to be a part of. What I Liked: I featured Frostfire, Hocking's upcoming novel, on my blog a few weeks ago. I'm pretty excited about that one in particular. So when I went to request the book, the team at St. Martin's Press told me that I should probably read the Trylle series first, since Frostfire is book one of a spinoff series. And then these wonderful people offered me review copies of the Trylle series. Nice, right? I remember when this series was self-published. I remember feeling meh about the series, but wanting to give it a shot, because trolls are pretty rare in YA literature. And now I have my chance! Wendy is a changeling - she was switched at birth with a human baby, and was placed in a human family. The human baby was placed in the keeping of the Trylle (a troll tribe). Wendy had no idea of any of this, not until the Vittra (another troll tribe) attacked her. With the help of Finn, a Trylle tracker, Wendy arrives at the home of the Trylle - and her real mother, the Queen of the Trylle. Wendy has a lot to learn if she is to be Princes... Obviously I'm in the middle, with this book. But my outlook on this book is positive, overall. Hocking put together a very interesting and intriguing story. There was no point in the story where I was like, ugh, this is boring. The story is slow, taking place mostly in the Trylle Queen's palace, in which Wendy must learn everything about the Trylle and being a princess. Slow, but necessary. I can't decide if I like Wendy or not - but honestly, I was rooting for her in this book. I hated how she felt in the beginning of the book - different, unique, unhappy. She never fit in anywhere. But then, even with the Trylle, she doesn't fit in, since she is the Princess. I hated how her mother pushed her around, trying to mold her into the perfect Princess. It's not like Wendy ever asked for any of that. It's not like she's ungrateful - she just doesn't want that life. I really felt for her. I'm not saying we'd be best friends (in my opinion, she's a bit of an airhead sometimes), but I understand her. The trolls thing is cool. The reason why humans and trolls are switched at birth is because trolls loveeee riches, so they put their troll babies in very rich families, so then the troll baby will grow up with a trust fund. Some trolls have extraordinary powers - for example, Wendy has some serious persuasion skills. The romance is... weird. I've already heard things about a messy romance in this series as a whole, so I'm prepared for the \"worst\". I don't need to love this series - heck, I never planned on reading it - so I'm not worried about being super invested in the series. Overall, I'm definitely excited to read the next book. The short story at the end of this book was interesting - I hope to see more of Loki in the future. I think I know where Hocking is going with that particular situation... What I Did Not Like: Sometimes, Wendy bothered me a lot. She's an airhead at times, gaping at hot boys like they are the only boys on the planet. I mean, it's so air headed to just flat-out gawk, right? And her decision-making skills aren't always the finest. I wanted to see more of a brave Wendy, a risk-taker, the girl with the temper. It keeps getting mentioned that she has a temper, but other than the very beginning (the prologue), I didn't really see that. So, more character development from Wendy. Also, more story development? We get a taste of the bigger picture at the very end of this one, with the Vittra, so that's a good sign. I'm confused about the romance. I know for sure that Wendy has lusty feelings for Finn (and vice versa), but is Tove a part of a potential love triangle? And Rhys - making it some sort of love pyramid? Hopefully not. Would I Recommend It: Ehh, this series has been out for a while. If you were around back when it was self-published (and super cheap), then you've probably heard a lot about it. I'm keeping an open mind, and I'm reading the next two books regardless. I'm liking the series so far, but apparently the next ones are the rough ones... so we'll see! Rating: 3.5 stars -> rounded down to 3 stars. Only because I don't think I loved enough to consider it a four-star-read. I'll be reading/reviewing book two, Torn, next Friday (the 17th)! ...more I've been doing research on publishing for the last year. I'll have to write a\u00a0separate\u00a0post about the changing nature of the biz, it's relationship to other publishing\u00a0businesses\u00a0(like video games), and the rise of the self published ebook author. But in\u00a0any case, I stumbled upon this\u00a0independent and self published author who is selling very well (mostly on Amazon ) with no prior print history. I figured I'd check one out. Switched appears to be her best seller and she says on her blog that it's I've been doing research on publishing for the last year. I'll have to write a\u00a0separate\u00a0post about the changing nature of the biz, it's relationship to other publishing\u00a0businesses\u00a0(like video games), and the rise of the self published ebook author. But in\u00a0any case, I stumbled upon this\u00a0independent and self published author who is selling very well (mostly on Amazon ) with no prior print history. I figured I'd check one out. Switched appears to be her best seller and she says on her blog that it's her favorite. This is a funny little paranormal romance about a girl whose mother hates her and thinks she's a changeling -- but she is. In fact she's a troll. She's then dragged off to her real mother. The first 25% is slightly \"high school novel,\" and the later 75% \"fish out of water.\" Overall, I'm not sure what to make of the book. The first person voice was strangely engaging and I pounded through it easy in an afternoon. Still, it felt like a first (or maybe second draft), and it's full of flaws. According to her website the author has roughly ten novels, mostly written in 2010 and she pounds out the first drafts 2-4 weeks! I consider myself fast at 2,500-4,000 words a day of first draft, but I have to admire that kind of lightning pace. The book was short. Maybe 50-60k words and it could perhaps be classified as \"engaging\" but could've been \"really fun read\" with some real editing. There is a crazy amount of \"tell,\" in this book. A lot of it buried in the overzealous volume of interior monologue. Characters are constantly attributed characteristics directly, without them being shown. Often, these characteristics are never shown. The protagonist gives the straight dope on things as she sees it, but this often feels more like how the author wants the reader to see it than how it really is. In fact, there isn't a whole lot of \"show\" in the book at all. The author is a solid writer. The sentences themselves are well formed, but a lot of them needed to come out, or be trimmed down. Conversations are redundant. Dialog points are redundant. The author loves the words creepy and foxy . Really loves creepy . The important scenes feel drained of emotion as the excessive interior monologue and somewhat forced dialog rob the moments of any real drama. The more casual conversations feel better than the important ones. When there's action it's awkwardly blocked, so that you have to go back and reread lines sometimes to figure out what happened physically. The overall plot is pretty straightforward. The end was abrupt and unsatisfying too. But still.\u00a0I can't say it didn't have a certain charm. I enjoyed reading it, more than many published POCs (like for instance Personal Demons ). The fantasy concept is decent and didn't bug me. Of course the novel only cost 99 cents! The writing is probably on par with Twilight\u00a0(see my review HERE) . Not that that's high praise. It just needs a lot of revision. Some plot changes to increase drama, character\u00a0tune-ups, and most of all line editing (see my detailed post on that HERE) . This is an Indy book. It's professional, but it's also the novel\u00a0equivalent\u00a0of a B movie. Written quickly, revised quickly, and sold cheaply. The author has enough talent to shoot higher. ...more Ugh. I know this is a \"young adult\" book, but since when did young people not deserve good writing? I actually generally enjoy this genre, but I was extremely disappointed with this one. The plot is tired; how I long for something other than the normal-kid-finds-out-s/he's-secretly (or secretly in love with)-a-[name a mythical creature] theme. The plot was literally so predictable that I might have been able to announce a character's fate from the moment of his/her introduction--the first descri Ugh. I know this is a \"young adult\" book, but since when did young people not deserve good writing? I actually generally enjoy this genre, but I was extremely disappointed with this one. The plot is tired; how I long for something other than the normal-kid-finds-out-s/he's-secretly (or secretly in love with)-a-[name a mythical creature] theme. The plot was literally so predictable that I might have been able to announce a character's fate from the moment of his/her introduction--the first descriptions of a character basically gave away where the plot was going. So painful. But even a relatively mundane plot can find redemption in good execution, i.e., good writing and interesting/novel ideas. This had neither. The writing plods along at about an early high school level...and I don't mean it sounds like it was written *for* an early high-schooler--it sounds like it was written *by* one, complete with painful grammatical/style errors that will make anyone who loves the English language cringe. I actually had high hopes for these books, since I like generally to have one light-reading series in the queue at all times (Twilight, Harry Potter, Golden Compass, Hunger Games were all decent reads over the last few years). And the beginning of the book had promise. Unfortunately that promise was unfulfilled. ...more The first 2/3 of this book was downright horrible. Oh but Emily, why didn't you just DNF it? Because it was a gift is why, and conscience is a bitch. The writing was unbearably immature, but I could have overlooked that, I could have, if the characters just hadn't been so... uggh!! Amanda Hocking failed so miserably at trying to make likable MC's. Wendy runs away from her brother and aunt who she loves so much and then she spends the rest of the book not giving a single damn about them. Not t The first 2/3 of this book was downright horrible. Oh but Emily, why didn't you just DNF it? Because it was a gift is why, and conscience is a bitch. The writing was unbearably immature, but I could have overlooked that, I could have, if the characters just hadn't been so... uggh!! Amanda Hocking failed so miserably at trying to make likable MC's. Wendy runs away from her brother and aunt who she loves so much and then she spends the rest of the book not giving a single damn about them. Not to mention the amount of insta-love was so tragic I felt like eating four liters of Ben&Jerrys. Declarations of love started already at page 48, and that's just sad. No really, it's sad . And these \"Trylle's\" that we are supposed to root for are so disgusting and selfish that innocent unicorns all over the world are crying tears of shame after having read this book. It should be - actually it IS - a crime to be as selfish as they are. They **SPOILER** switch innocent little human babies for their own, so that their troll kid can grow up in a rich family, and then when they're old enough can take all the money of that family and run away with it back to the trolls. And what happens to the kidnapped human babies, you ask? They get treated like dog crap the rest of their lives. Oh joy, sounds so wonderful, right? I feel like I'm guilty of some horrible crime after having read this, like I should have stopped all this madness. How am I supposed to root for these things , for these creatures ? The only three characters I actually liked (Rhys, Tove and Willa) were constantly seen as unworthy of the \"awesomeness\" that is Trylle, and the fact that the higher Trylle's couldn't even hug the lesser Trylle's because they were \"parasites\"... I do realize that the world isn't fair, but these are the people that are supposed to be the good ones , the heroes, and that's just awful. This book is such a waste of paper! My heart goes out to all the animals that lost their homes just so that this book could be printed. ...more AMAZING!! Finally I just finished \u2018Switched\u2019 A Trylle Novel by Amanda Hocking. It made me feel exited all the way along. It mainly talks about a girl that was different than everyone else, strange and she doesn\u2019t quite fit in! Her mother tried to murder her as she accused her of having been switched at birth. Though she is not the \u2018monster\u2019 her mom claims she is\u2026. Can\u2019t tell you more hhhh :p it\u2019s one of the books that steal you attention... Couldn\u2019t stop from reading it. Re-read: 27.03.15. Still an amazing book! Though, if I remember correctly, I think I love the second book the most.. Will just have to see.. On to the next one on my re-reading! First rate: 5 stars. Second rate: 4.5 stars. ** I recently finished the spin-off of this series, and wow, it was so damn incredible, I really need more of the trylle world so I just had to come back to the beginning to give it a go. ** Trolls. This is basically Twilight with trolls. I gave it an extra star for the simple fact that it\u2019s about trolls, that not often mentioned creature (apart from in Lord of the Rings). It\u2019s the story of Wendy Everly, a seventeen-year-old who, in my head, didn\u2019t act more than 15 years of age throughout the entire book. I really could not wrap my head around the fact that she was supposed to be 17 and had to keep reminding myself so much, that I eventually gave up. Moving on, Wendy had a really ba Trolls. This is basically Twilight with trolls. I gave it an extra star for the simple fact that it\u2019s about trolls, that not often mentioned creature (apart from in Lord of the Rings). It\u2019s the story of Wendy Everly, a seventeen-year-old who, in my head, didn\u2019t act more than 15 years of age throughout the entire book. I really could not wrap my head around the fact that she was supposed to be 17 and had to keep reminding myself so much, that I eventually gave up. Moving on, Wendy had a really bad episode on her 6th birthday, because her mother kept accusing her that she was not her daughter and tried to kill her. We find out later that the lady is not THAT crazy. Trolls, I tell you. Wendy gets pretty much thrown out of every single school she goes to, which means that her guardians; her \u201caunt\u201d and her \u201cbrother\u201d Matt, have to move with her. She never feels like she ever fitted into the family. She begins attending school and gets increasingly interested in the new guy \u2013 Finn Holmes \u2013 who, for some reason, keeps staring at her. Familiar? Maaan, I only gave this book 2 stars, because it\u2019s about trolls, did I mention that? Finn is the key to why Wendy never felt she fitted. Surprise, surprise! In short, I was curious as to why Amanda Hocking became such an overnight success and I don\u2019t think I\u2019m done in my exploration of the reason, because this first book leaves a lot to desire \u2013 character and plot-wise, but just like any phenomenon like \u201cTwilight\u201d or \u201cThe Hunger Games\u201d, I can understand how the simplicity of the story and the same old characters would appeal. It\u2019s the romance. It\u2019s the only reason i stuck around too, must admit. I am a sucker for love. Quick, uncomplicated read, mostly of appeal to 12 year olds with no discerning literary knowledge, but also rather compelling, because how many books have actually told you about the origin of trolls, where and how they live? Normally, they are just these ugly\u2026 things\u2026 Purely for the novelty! ...more Review: Wendy Everly's childhood has been defined by the incident that happened when she was six years old. The incident where her mother tried to kill her, certain that Wendy was not her child. And, as she grows older, her mother holds onto that certainty, even when deemed \"insane\". Wendy's world is upended when she finds out that her mother somehow knew the real truth. She isn't an Everly. She was switched at birth by the mysterious Trylle. Now, she must return to them, and with the help of Finn Review: Wendy Everly's childhood has been defined by the incident that happened when she was six years old. The incident where her mother tried to kill her, certain that Wendy was not her child. And, as she grows older, her mother holds onto that certainty, even when deemed \"insane\". Wendy's world is upended when she finds out that her mother somehow knew the real truth. She isn't an Everly. She was switched at birth by the mysterious Trylle. Now, she must return to them, and with the help of Finn, take her rightful place amongst her own people. Wendy has to repatriate herself among people where she supposedly belonged, but has no knowledge how to be one of them. The Trylle are far from human, and she has a hard time relinquishing the idea that she is one of them. I liked the more low-key aspect of SWITCHED. Most of the fantasy that I read has ramped-up danger, death threats, and a higher octane romantic feature to it. But, this novel has more intrigue, political machinations and hidden secrets, and in less pages than the average YA print book. As a princess of the group, much is expected of Wendy, and Finn is supposed to be her guide in these matters. However, it did seem that she missed out on many of the undercurrents of silent communication that ran from Trylle to Trylle, and definitely that of Elora, the queen. This could be attributed to her recent arrival, and her more important place in the Trylle hierarchy, but I felt as if she was being a little willfully ignorant. Closer to the end, it's more clear that the tension between Finn and Wendy could actually amount to some action, in this part of the trilogy. The tipping point of their relationship is written well, and though Wendy's story itself doesn't end, Hocking writes a good completion to this part of the story, while keeping me on the hook for the rest of the series. 3.5/5 for plot 3.5/5 for characters 4/5 for language My Rating: 11/15 Recommend ...more", "Title": "Switched"},
