{"Comments": "<+++>You Really Are Full of Shit, Aren't You?</+++><---A>Karl Wiggins</---A> is a very funny man. When he goes off on a tangent, especially. The thing about this book is, yes, he can go off on a tangent and say some pretty funny stuff, but then he gets meaningful and very serious when the subject warrants it. He is brilliant and insightful,<---M> and obviously in his personal life</---M>, is a wonderful father. In parts of this book, he writes about his son, and it's obvious that he is very proud of him. (<---B>By the way, the son sounds pretty awesome.</---B>) When you read this boo Karl Wiggins is a very funny man. When he goes off on a tangent, especially. The thing about this book is, yes, he can go off on a tangent and say some pretty funny stuff, but then he gets meaningful and very serious when the subject warrants it. He is brilliant and insightful, and obviously in his personal life, is a wonderful father. In parts of this book, he writes about his son, and it's obvious that he is very proud of him. (By the way, the son sounds pretty awesome.) When you read this book, you will laugh at some things and you will be amazed at the insight in places.<---F> Great job</---F>. Carole McKee, Author ...more I loved this book. I laughed at Karl's comments and I wish he really were an advice columnist so I could read him everyday. His common sense approach to the questions posed to advice columnists is refreshing. He is not politically correct - he is simply correct. If you want a good laugh I highly recommend this book. One of my favorite authors has done it again! Karl Wiggins takes on the role of Agony Aunt, or Uncle in this case, to supply would-be answers to the sados and sickos that seek help from advice columnists. It is amazing what some people write in and ask for advice on, and Wiggins shoots back the kind of no-nonsense advice that should be offered. His insight is hilarious and is in keeping with the humor I've come to love. In his usual style, he doesn't pull any punches which is what I like about h One of my favorite authors has done it again! Karl Wiggins takes on the role of Agony Aunt, or Uncle in this case, to supply would-be answers to the sados and sickos that seek help from advice columnists. It is amazing what some people write in and ask for advice on, and Wiggins shoots back the kind of no-nonsense advice that should be offered. His insight is hilarious and is in keeping with the humor I've come to love. In his usual style, he doesn't pull any punches which is what I like about his writing. It's not watered down to avoid upsetting the over sensitive. He is genuine, forthright, and perceptive. Whoever thought common sense could make you laugh so much! Highly recommended for a good laugh. ...more Karl Wiggins is essentially an Agony Aunt or Uncle who takes no crap from anyone. If you are looking for tears, sympathy and a nice cup of tea when you write to him with your issues and problems, then look elsewhere. Karl is likely to give you a good dose of honesty served up with a drop of reality. This is one of those \"dip in, dip out\" books for me, I enjoyed it more by reading a few tidbits and woes and answers from Karl at a time. Some may enjoy reading it from cover to cover but that's how I Karl Wiggins is essentially an Agony Aunt or Uncle who takes no crap from anyone. If you are looking for tears, sympathy and a nice cup of tea when you write to him with your issues and problems, then look elsewhere. Karl is likely to give you a good dose of honesty served up with a drop of reality. This is one of those \"dip in, dip out\" books for me, I enjoyed it more by reading a few tidbits and woes and answers from Karl at a time. Some may enjoy reading it from cover to cover but that's how I liked to take on this book. I possibly didn't find it as funny as some, maybe it's that I lack some humour, certainly some bits made me smile but not a laugh out loud book for me. Maybe I am just too nice, he can be pretty brutal, but that's the whole idea. Could be fun to read out loud with a partner or friends also, a good gift book idea too. It's something different that will appeal to a lot who like this type of book, just remember this is no wishy-washy self-help book, it's more like the slap in a face with the truth by brick. 3 paw prints from Booklover Catlady for this one. For more of my reviews, book talk and giveaways go to: https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat... Many thanks to the author, Karl Wiggins for sharing a copy of his book with me in exchange for an honest review. ...more One thing I have noticed about books written by Karl Wiggins (and I\u2019ve now read quite a few) is that although he uses the same wit as a stand-up comedian at very frequent intervals in all of them, each book is unique. One book does not read like another one he has written. He can write about any and every subject and make it as fresh and original as if he had never written anything else in his life. He hits the funny bone every time with unnerving accuracy, pointing out the absurdities in life w One thing I have noticed about books written by Karl Wiggins (and I\u2019ve now read quite a few) is that although he uses the same wit as a stand-up comedian at very frequent intervals in all of them, each book is unique. One book does not read like another one he has written. He can write about any and every subject and make it as fresh and original as if he had never written anything else in his life. He hits the funny bone every time with unnerving accuracy, pointing out the absurdities in life with intelligence and humour. It\u2019s a lethal concoction adding up to books that are not easy to put down. He is very successful at it. As a fellow author, I hate the b******d. Readers, on the other hand, will love another helping of irreverent humour, but they should be warned - this book also contains poignancy, insights from someone who is far more clever than he seems, and good writing. It's not all about causing hoots of laughter on every page. Wonderful. ...more What a refreshing change to read something different that elicits emotion and dares to look at things directly. I find myself shouting out WTF. I was cringing, laughing - highly entertaining. Karl is fast becoming one of my favourite authors in this genre. He certainly has me reaching for his other books. If you are interesting in intuitive, no-nonsense advice from someone with a satirical sense of humour - I recommend this read. This is one of my new favorites from Karl. He writes exactly they way you want to tell people all the time how full of shit they are. You can really laugh out loud with this one. One of the chapters tells of something that I actually was around for, I laughed and cried. Love the book Absolutely loved this very truthful account of what an Agony Aunt (or uncle) really thinks, and what we all probably think, but are too polite to say so. Hilarious and I loved it :-) Not quite as funny as the reviews made me think it would be, but still pretty hilarious. Some of the stories had me laughing out loud. Ugh... I should have known! Not my cup of tea! Well, Karl\u2019s at it again! Bless him \u2013 this man is funny! This book takes a whole load of people\u2019s whinges and responds in kind. It\u2019s sort of what every agony aunt/uncle would dearly love (and imho should) say, but they don\u2019t have the balls to. Karl has, because Karl doesn\u2019t give a shit (as his little cartoon tells us)! :-O Very funny, as I\u2019ve come to expect from this fry witted author. And I loved the backpacking/hitchhiking story. Thank you for sharing, and for your honesty. This is the second of his books I've tried to read, and that old saying definitely applies - fool me twice, shame on me. Some might find the author's \"no bullshit,\" clipped responses funny, but I find them obnoxious and lazy. Two stars because it revealed its nature early on so I could stop without wasting much time.<---C>Karl Wiggins</---C><+++>You Really Are Full of Shit, Aren't You?</+++>", "Title": "You Really Are Full of Shit, Aren't You?"},
