{"Comments": "This book was such a disappointment. The characters were completely one dimensional and not at all interesting. The storyline was filled with cliches from every bad Lifetime movie. About three quarters of the way through, I somehow knew how it would end (because it was the one cliche that hadn't been hit yet). The book itself is primarily dialouge and not good one at that. Avoid. Hmm... well, I've never read \"Beaches\" (the book many reviewers compared this to) and I'm pretty sure I won't now. <+++>Firefly Lane</+++> was... meh. Two girls stay \"best friends\" through four decades and widely divergent paths. Only thing is, emotionally, they stay girls. They never really become women, never break their stupid patterns (and they really are stupid), never evolve. The characters are 2-dimensional at best: Kate is spineless and weak, Tully is narcissistic and bitchy.<---F> They consider themselv Hmm</---F>... well, I've never read \"Beaches\" (the book many reviewers compared this to) and I'm pretty sure I won't now. <+++>Firefly Lane</+++> was... meh. Two girls stay \"best friends\" through four decades and widely divergent paths. Only thing is, emotionally, they stay girls. They never really become women, never break their stupid patterns (and they really are stupid), never evolve. The characters are 2-dimensional at best: Kate is spineless and weak, Tully is narcissistic and bitchy. They consider themselves \"best friends\" when in reality, they are just enablers to the other one's personality weaknesses. And yet ~ I read the whole damn thing because <---A>Kristin Hannah</---A>,<---M> despite her storyline and emotionally stupid characters</---M>, is a good writer! Hence the 3 stars. A quick and easy read. Honestly, if you want something brainless, this is a good beach read (ha, no pun intended), but I wouldn't recommend it if you're feeling even a smidge intellectually and emotionally smarter than the rest of the world. 'Cause it'll really annoy you then. ...more Loved this book!! Beautifully written... Touching, funny, sad. This is the third book by Kristin Hannah that I have read and I have enjoyed them all!! Set in the 1970's- early 2000's in Washington State, it contains many references to music of the times that I found added to the story (maybe because I grew up at this time also...)! Two early teen girls couldn't have been more different than Kate and Tully. Kate comes from a loving and supportive family and is a bit awkward socially. Tully's mothe Loved this book!! Beautifully written... Touching, funny, sad. This is the third book by Kristin Hannah that I have read and I have enjoyed them all!! Set in the 1970's- early 2000's in Washington State, it contains many references to music of the times that I found added to the story (maybe because I grew up at this time also...)! Two early teen girls couldn't have been more different than Kate and Tully. Kate comes from a loving and supportive family and is a bit awkward socially. Tully's mother has abandoned her many times through her short life and Tully is popular and passionate. The book focuses on the 30+ year friendship between these girls through good and bad times and major life changes. It is beautiful and bittersweet. Favorite Quote \u201cThat was the thing about best friends. Like sisters and mothers, they could piss you off and make you cry and break your heart, but in the end, when the chips were down, they were there, making you laugh even in your darkest hours. \u201d I recommend Firefly Lane to fans of contemporary fiction and \"chick lit\". A touching and fast moving story. Can't wait to move on to Fly Away !!! ...more I really and truly thoroughly enjoyed this novel. Thank you very much Lisa for letting me borrow this! What a great book. It began the year I was born and ended in present day and followed the lives of two best friends named Tully and Kate. I loved reliving the 70's and 80's and 90's with them, all of the pop culture references made this a fun journey. The book is much more than just pop culture though as it follows two young girls who grow into wonderful women with very different personalities. I really and truly thoroughly enjoyed this novel. Thank you very much Lisa for letting me borrow this! What a great book. It began the year I was born and ended in present day and followed the lives of two best friends named Tully and Kate. I loved reliving the 70's and 80's and 90's with them, all of the pop culture references made this a fun journey. The book is much more than just pop culture though as it follows two young girls who grow into wonderful women with very different personalities. Their lives separate and entwine over and over again through the years and the adventures that ensue and the memories they create with each other are priceless. I really think the author hit the best friend/as close as a sister relationship two women can have on the head and I saw a lot of myself in Tully and a whole lot of my friend Brooke in Kate. I could identify with so much in this book and for that I truly loved it. ...more Wow. Another emotional sucker punch book by Kristin Hannah. If you are in the mood for a tear jerker she truly never disappoints. I wanted to read this one for a while, but only actually read it in anticipation of the next part, \"Fly Away\" being released soon. Also, I follow Kristin on Facebook, and this seems to be the book that all of her fans adore the most. I can see why. I love books that tell a story through multiple decades. If the author does it right you can almost feel transported to a Wow. Another emotional sucker punch book by Kristin Hannah. If you are in the mood for a tear jerker she truly never disappoints. I wanted to read this one for a while, but only actually read it in anticipation of the next part, \"Fly Away\" being released soon. Also, I follow Kristin on Facebook, and this seems to be the book that all of her fans adore the most. I can see why. I love books that tell a story through multiple decades. If the author does it right you can almost feel transported to a certain time, and I love that! Hannah, in my opinion, does an amazing job. The story starts out in the 60s with two girls who live completely different lives, yet are searching for the same things. Tully is the girl who raises her pot-head mother, and Kate is the goody goody with parents she often feels are smothering. She soon realizes that Tully has the freedom she longs for and she has the loving family Tully dreams of. The girls live out their lives with a lot of twists and turns that they could have never seen coming. As young girls they planned to be anchorwoman together doing news broadcasts, but life doesn't always turn out the way you think it will, does it? I finished this book with a face full of tears, and to me that shows that Hannah really knows how to touch her readers. She says in her afterword that this is a story that was very personal to her, and you can see why. The characters are very well written, and you always find yourself rooting for these girls to get what they want out of life. The best part about this book is how it shows that sometimes you DO get what you want out of life, and you can still be unhappy or feel as if you are missing something. This is a struggle that so many people deal with, and I think Kristin wrote this story beautifully. ...more I give this book more of a 3.5 to 3.75. I start this with a disclaimer that I rarely read chick lit. If I feel the need to clear my head after reading a deeper book, I'll pick up a mystery, or maybe a middle grades kids book. Yet I had seen two friends, Elyse and Stephanie, write poignant reviews about Firefly Lane, so I let my curiosity get the better of me, and picked it up. Firefly Lane is about the 30 year friendship of <---C>Kate Mularkey</---C> Ryan and Tully Hart. These two girls were brought together I give this book more of a 3.5 to 3.75. I start this with a disclaimer that I rarely read chick lit. If I feel the need to clear my head after reading a deeper book, I'll pick up a mystery, or maybe a middle grades kids book. Yet I had seen two friends, Elyse and Stephanie, write poignant reviews about Firefly Lane, so I let my curiosity get the better of me, and picked it up. Firefly Lane is about the 30 year friendship of Kate Mularkey Ryan and Tully Hart. These two girls were brought together at age 14 when they were so vulnerable and needed a friend to help them through the turbulent teen years. The book follows their life journey and included myriad references to the pop culture, news events, and music of the times. Even though the book is nearly 500 pages long, it read quickly because I allowed myself to get emotionally involved in the characters, so of course I could not put the book down. Kate Mularkey is the serious one. Coming from a stable family, her one desire is to find true love. Tully Hart had been abandoned by her drug addict mother too many times to recall and eventually moved in with the Mularkey family. The last thing she knew about was love, and her only desire was to be a news woman at a time when women were finally beginning to break the glass ceiling. Being the novel that it is, Tully shatters that glass ceiling forgoing family life for stardom while Kate marries Johnny her former boss and settles into not so blissful life as an at-home mom. Yet through thick and thin, the women remained best friends. What I liked about this book was the musical references, the strength of love between Kate and Johnny, and the layers to Tully's character. I also liked being reminded of a simpler time before computers and Internet and social media where kids could stay out late and parents did not need to worry much about where their kids were. After reading this, I realize why I do not read much chick lit: my life like Kate's is that of a busy at-home mom and I don't have the time to get too emotionally involved in the books that I read. As poignant as this story is, I am happier with my mysteries and detective novels. I noticed that Kristin Hannah wrote a sequel that I am interested in reading as well as The Nightingale which brought her many accolades. I recommend this to those looking for a read about friendship, and perhaps those people who enjoy the chick lit genre more than I do will enjoy it even more than I did. ...more (audiobook version) I read this at the insistence of a friend. I had a feeling I wouldn\u2019t like it very much; even though she\u2019s a friend we have some very different taste in books. She went on and on and on about how good it was, but it was only so-so for me, as expected. Firefly Lane tells the story of two girls who become best friends at age 14. It follows them for over 30 years, from the 1970s into the 2000s. The book doesn\u2019t break any new ground, really. For instance, did you know that being (audiobook version) I read this at the insistence of a friend. I had a feeling I wouldn\u2019t like it very much; even though she\u2019s a friend we have some very different taste in books. She went on and on and on about how good it was, but it was only so-so for me, as expected. Firefly Lane tells the story of two girls who become best friends at age 14. It follows them for over 30 years, from the 1970s into the 2000s. The book doesn\u2019t break any new ground, really. For instance, did you know that being rich and famous doesn\u2019t guarantee happiness? How about this: Putting your career above all else might ensure that you end up being lonely because you don\u2019t make time in your life for LOVE! Here\u2019s a revelation: Sometimes stay-at-home moms get overwhelmed and depressed. Oh, and I also learned that teenage daughters oftentimes don\u2019t get along with their mothers! The book wasn\u2019t offensive, but it was nothing special. The blurb says there is a betrayal in the story. At least I didn\u2019t guess what it was; that was one part that wasn\u2019t predictable. It was totally unbelievable, though. I wouldn\u2019t accept in a million years that one of the women does what she does to her best friend in the whole wide world. It did not work for me at all. At times I felt assaulted by the information the author used to set the time and place. It\u2019s like she had a checklist and had to mention a certain number of phrases, events, clothing styles, etc, from different time periods. Yes, we understand that time is passing. Yes, we get it that now it\u2019s 1974, or 1982, or whatever. Stop hitting me over the head with your historical references. It seemed really forced, awkward, and out of place at times. One part of the story turns into a mini public service announcement. It was kind of jarring. I understand from the author\u2019s notes that a certain cause is important to her, but the preaching seemed kind of out of place. I wonder if my sister A would like this book, only because the main characters were born the same year she was, and one of them really liked JRR Tolkien as a teen, as did A. I couldn't really recommend it to anyone else. ...more We are reading this book in my book club. I listened to it on audio book. It is the story of Kate and Tully who meet as teenagers and then remain friends for 30 years. They are bff's and it is the story of friendship between two women and a betrayal that almost destroyed it. A few CD's into this I asked another lady in the club \"Where is this going? How will she fill 15 CD's with this story?\" I kept waiting for the big betrayal / twist at the end. So, I couldn't stop listening. The story however We are reading this book in my book club. I listened to it on audio book. It is the story of Kate and Tully who meet as teenagers and then remain friends for 30 years. They are bff's and it is the story of friendship between two women and a betrayal that almost destroyed it. A few CD's into this I asked another lady in the club \"Where is this going? How will she fill 15 CD's with this story?\" I kept waiting for the big betrayal / twist at the end. So, I couldn't stop listening. The story however, was way too long for what she had to say. My favorite \"girlfriend\" book is Sula. And so I compared this book to it automatically, and it just doesn't come close. Sula is much shorter and much more poignant. I also felt like I was listening to the same story again when Kate's daughter was a teenager. Also, I would have killed that girl. There were a few things in this book that did not work for me. The first thing is that it seems the author just stereotypes women. Either you are the sexy, hot working woman, or you are the frumpy housewife. In the beginning of the story Mrs. M (Kate's mom) tells the girls they can have it both. The author then seems to prove that you can't. Women have to choose between working and staying at home? Sorry, I have been a working mom for 15 years, and we can do it! Also, Kate is always talking about all the money her best friend has but then her husband was making a lot of money as well. At one point she even says that they were almost as rich as Tully. So, why couldn't she get help with the household if she is that overwhelmed? Why couldn't she take better care of herself? My best friend is a stay at home mom, and involved in everything, with 3 little girls. And she always looks good! The other part that didn't jive is that Mrs. M tells Tully her dad was an alcoholic, and talks about how much she hated it. Yet she herself was \"making it though with alcohol\". My grandfather was an alcoholic and I can tell you the kids that hate it, do not use alcohol to make it though the day. They know how much it can hurt their families. The book had an important message about inflammatory breast cancer. I had not heard of it, and am like Kate where I do my regular exams. So that is a bit scary for all women. A powerful lesson, and makes this book worth the read. ...more This book was hard for me. I lost my sister to breast cancer 6 years ago. She was only 38 years old. Much like the girls in the story, she was my best friend forever. We grew up in the same decades that were in the stories. I remember dancing to the Jackson 5, singing to Diana Ross, fighting over who liked which Debarg, and who could do the best moon walk. Being siblings we had memories for a lifetime. It was so hard losing the one person who knows everything about you. The one person who was al This book was hard for me. I lost my sister to breast cancer 6 years ago. She was only 38 years old. Much like the girls in the story, she was my best friend forever. We grew up in the same decades that were in the stories. I remember dancing to the Jackson 5, singing to Diana Ross, fighting over who liked which Debarg, and who could do the best moon walk. Being siblings we had memories for a lifetime. It was so hard losing the one person who knows everything about you. The one person who was always on your side. Even when we fought, our lives were to closely intertwined to ever stay apart for too long. I miss her everyday but feel her in my soul and see her in my children. This book brought both laughter and tears but many sweet memories. Thanks Ms. Hannah. (sorry to whoever read this review the first time, it was written at 12:30 in the morning after I had just cried my eyes out. After reading it over I realized all the mistakes. I promise to spell check from now on. :-) ...more I felt like this book wasn't really about anything. I kept waiting for a plot but three-fourths of the way through I realized there wasn't one. It was very cliche in the sense that it read like a Lifetime Original movie. I predicted that the least-hated girl would die right around the time I realized there was no plot. The so-called friendship that this book was about was so unrealistic that I found myself wanting to tell the sheepish, pathetic, mousy girl (she was so unmemorable that I can't re I felt like this book wasn't really about anything. I kept waiting for a plot but three-fourths of the way through I realized there wasn't one. It was very cliche in the sense that it read like a Lifetime Original movie. I predicted that the least-hated girl would die right around the time I realized there was no plot. The so-called friendship that this book was about was so unrealistic that I found myself wanting to tell the sheepish, pathetic, mousy girl (she was so unmemorable that I can't remember her name) that she needed to set some major boundaries with her brash, narcissistic, over-bearing friend. I hated both main characters for dramatically different reasons. I think Hannah was trying to paint the picture of the life choices and paths of two different women. However the portrayals of both were so extreme I think most women live somewhere in the middle. ...more Firefly Lane by Kristin Hannah is a breathtaking trip down memory lane. From 70's teens to 80's young women these two girls have more than a life time worth of memories both good and bad. The 90's usher in permanent choices and the new millineum tumbles in with, \"What did I do with my life\". The harsh realities of growing up aren't always kind. Tully Hart is a product of the hippie era or as they say, \"Sex, drugs and Rock & Roll\". Being torn between living with her grandparents and the occasi Firefly Lane by Kristin Hannah is a breathtaking trip down memory lane. From 70's teens to 80's young women these two girls have more than a life time worth of memories both good and bad. The 90's usher in permanent choices and the new millineum tumbles in with, \"What did I do with my life\". The harsh realities of growing up aren't always kind. Tully Hart is a product of the hippie era or as they say, \"Sex, drugs and Rock & Roll\". Being torn between living with her grandparents and the occasional pull from her freedom seeking, drug induced mom, Tully lives life in not only the country lane but the fast lane. Growing up this way is more than difficult, more like a spawning tornado in the making. Determined, energetic, daring, unstoppable, Tully plows through the years of her life at light speed not allowing anything or anyone to slow her down. Drive and ambition get her what she wants. Katie Mularkey is ideal country girl. Kind, smart, geekie, with the average girl look which puts her on the sidelines most of her life. Paitience is a virtue and luckly for Katie she has a mountain of it. They say, \"Love is worth waiting for\", and Katie is hoping beyond hope that this is true. Standing in the shadow of her best friend is difficult at best. Trying to meet her parents high expectations keeps Katie from expressing what she truely feels and the knowledge of disappointment should she choose her own path keeps her from making the choices she would prefer. These two young girls start out by meeting at the bus stop in 70's. Disaster for Tully sends her to do what she would never do under normal circumstances, she seeks out Katie for help, friendship and understanding. The girls become one and a blood sister friendship ensues to defy the odds and time. Set upon a lifetime goal, both young women begin their college years full tilt. Together in almost every aspect of their lives thus far, they are the unstoppable \"Firefly Lane Girls\". Tully is reaching for the stars and Katie is reaching for Tully. The 80's turn out to be full of energy, excitement and wonder. Love affairs bloom, school and work are full of surprises which creates a little rift but cannot penetrate the tightness of Kate and Tully's bond. The 90's cause a stampede of emotions the result of one catastrophe after another for Katie making the bond stronger than ever between the women. Nothing can stop Tully from being there for the one truely important person in her life. The new millineum comes in like a lamb and as each year passes, Katie and Tully both wonder if they've really made the right lifetime choices. What have they each missed out on with the choices they have made and the age old question, \"What If I chose the other path\"? I think we all question our choices as we begin to stare at the half century mark in our lives. Maybe that's why we go through the change of life. It's a time of reflection to see where we've been and where we want to go. The author is brilliant, knowledgeable and so full of passion that this novel is like a spider's web. Delicate but strong, mesmerizing, deadly, heart wrenchingly painful and just what a box of tissues is made for. Like a masterpiece painting, each stroke of the authors pen makes us look deep into the meaning of how fate really can be fickle. Reviewed for Front Street Reviews http://www.frontstreetreviews.com/ ...more I cried so much throughout the last 20 or so pages of this book that my husband became genuinely concerned for my well-being. The conversation went pretty much like this: Me: /trying not to sound like I'm crying Him: \"Are you ok?\" Me: \"Yes, I'm fine.\" Him: \"Are you sure?\" Me: \"Yes, it's just sad.\" 5 minutes later... Him: \"Are you sure you're ok?\" Me: \"Yes! Leave me alone!\" Him: \"It's just that you're crying really hard.\" Me: \"I know. I'm just a big sap.\" 5 minutes later... Him: \"Are you going to be all righ I cried so much throughout the last 20 or so pages of this book that my husband became genuinely concerned for my well-being. The conversation went pretty much like this: Me: /trying not to sound like I'm crying Him: \"Are you ok?\" Me: \"Yes, I'm fine.\" Him: \"Are you sure?\" Me: \"Yes, it's just sad.\" 5 minutes later... Him: \"Are you sure you're ok?\" Me: \"Yes! Leave me alone!\" Him: \"It's just that you're crying really hard.\" Me: \"I know. I'm just a big sap.\" 5 minutes later... Him: \"Are you going to be all right?\" Me: \"I'll be fine. Quit asking!\" Him: \"It's just that you're crying like I died or something.\" Me: \"Are you kidding? When you die I'll be dancing on your grave.\" (Don't feel bad; we joke with each other like that all the time.) Eventually, I went into the bathroom so he'd stop asking me. At any rate, a lot about this book was extremely cliched, and some of it was rather annoying (i.e. the constant in-your-face cultural references), but I liked it anyway. ...more Read this with a box of tissues and lots of alone time. I went into this book thinking it was a book of friends. Their ups and downs. How friends become family, sometimes more. How strong personalities can affect a friendship in more ways than one. How jealousy can put stress on a marriage and a friendship and how wanting what is not yours can do the same. But, I didn't for one second think that I was reading a book about the ending of a friendship and a life. Or the path of eternal friendship a Read this with a box of tissues and lots of alone time. I went into this book thinking it was a book of friends. Their ups and downs. How friends become family, sometimes more. How strong personalities can affect a friendship in more ways than one. How jealousy can put stress on a marriage and a friendship and how wanting what is not yours can do the same. But, I didn't for one second think that I was reading a book about the ending of a friendship and a life. Or the path of eternal friendship and life. I work in oncology and have lost many people that I truly care about to breast cancer. This book affected more than I can tell you. To be honest, had I known what it was truly about I don't think I would have read it. I'm glad I did, but I wouldn't read it again. I felt what the characters felt. I wept when Marah and Kate would have their horrific battles. I found myself getting so mad at Tully for her selfishness. I was jealous right along with Katie when she would see Johnny and Tully together. And I suffered the loss of a friend and mom as Kate battled her cancer and died. Kristin Hannah has a true gift of pulling you into her books. I am emotionally drained. ...more Nothing I read about Firefly Lane could have prepared me for the moving story of Tully and Kate. Sure, I've read other books that were emotionally charged and brought me to tears. Several of them were also written by Kristin Hannah . She's a genius at writing human stories that make it impossible not to feel the emotions right along with her characters. This one though...this is an immeasurably touching depiction of family love & strife, career choices, and undying friendship. I haven't read Nothing I read about Firefly Lane could have prepared me for the moving story of Tully and Kate. Sure, I've read other books that were emotionally charged and brought me to tears. Several of them were also written by Kristin Hannah . She's a genius at writing human stories that make it impossible not to feel the emotions right along with her characters. This one though...this is an immeasurably touching depiction of family love & strife, career choices, and undying friendship. I haven't read a more profound fictional portrayal of those real life issues before. I'll be thinking about this book and these characters for some time. It will be that difficult to leave them behind. ...more This was a lovely heartfelt story of two girls who meet in sad circumstances and find the most unlikely of friend. Beginning in 1970s Washington state, the story follows them as they grow from angsty teenagers into young women and beyond, through careers and failed relationships, children and more. Tully and Kate are an unlikely duo, each perfectly imperfect, but somehow they cannot function without each other. One is callously ambitious, the other is more subdued. They fight, they fall out, but This was a lovely heartfelt story of two girls who meet in sad circumstances and find the most unlikely of friend. Beginning in 1970s Washington state, the story follows them as they grow from angsty teenagers into young women and beyond, through careers and failed relationships, children and more. Tully and Kate are an unlikely duo, each perfectly imperfect, but somehow they cannot function without each other. One is callously ambitious, the other is more subdued. They fight, they fall out, but they still love each other. They are a team. I thought the pace of this book was good, quite often with stories that transcend several decades the author rushes her work, however I felt that wasn't the case here. From the seventies until present day, the author described each decade with a good dose of realism (not forgetting those infamous eighties shoulder pads!) At times the story was so emotional it was almost overwhelming. Having said that, it was difficult to put down. I can see why some readers liken the book to eighties classic film The Beaches, a personal favourite of mine. I could see this novel being easily adapted for the big screen too. Thinking along the lines of My Sisters Keeper will give you an idea of how the story pans out. A high four star rating. I will continue to work my way through Hannah's novels, just hoping they all continue to be as moving as this one. ...more A long, tiresome read. The 400-plus-paged novel relies on the characters' relationships to sustain the plot and reader interest, but those relationships, like the characters, are clich\u00e9d and two-dimesional and somewhat hard to believe. Also hard to believe are the personal stories of the characters \u2014 such as Tallulah Hart, who rises to success as a TV journalist, covering everything from individuals' crises to international affairs... only to host a daytime talk show called \"The Girlfriend Hour\" A long, tiresome read. The 400-plus-paged novel relies on the characters' relationships to sustain the plot and reader interest, but those relationships, like the characters, are clich\u00e9d and two-dimesional and somewhat hard to believe. Also hard to believe are the personal stories of the characters \u2014 such as Tallulah Hart, who rises to success as a TV journalist, covering everything from individuals' crises to international affairs... only to host a daytime talk show called \"The Girlfriend Hour\" to represent the pinnacle of her success as a professional journalist? Right. The book reads as an author's first try, a very rough draft, a story that's readable enough if you have a long train ride and nothing else to do, but certainly not worth your time if you have anything better to do. The story has redeemable qualities, scattered moments in the plot that touch the reader and a few laughs here and there, but the writing is not developed enough to make the novel anything more than mediocre. Note: I received this book through the LibraryThing Early Reviewers program. ...more Friendships were like marriages in that way. Routines and patterns were poured early and hardened like cement. I did not like the first quarter of this book, I could not connect to the teenagers, and it felt like very similar personalities to the ones in Night road. Although I enjoyed the middle of the book more, I did not like Tully - according to me she is not best friend material, everything is her way or the highway. I am a sucker for a book that makes me cry like a baby, and the ending did ju Friendships were like marriages in that way. Routines and patterns were poured early and hardened like cement. I did not like the first quarter of this book, I could not connect to the teenagers, and it felt like very similar personalities to the ones in Night road. Although I enjoyed the middle of the book more, I did not like Tully - according to me she is not best friend material, everything is her way or the highway. I am a sucker for a book that makes me cry like a baby, and the ending did just that, so because of this Firefly lane went from a 2 star to a 3 star book. I am still undecided about reading Fly away which is the follow up - I may just read it to see if Tully has finally changed her ways. ...more Although I feel that the plot is somewhat formulaic (and there were parts that reminded me of the movie Beaches), the story is well-written and entertaining. I found I had trouble putting the book down, and when I wasn't reading it, I found myself thinking about the story. In one sense, I feel that the plot is a little bit predictable, but I didn't find myself minding it because the story itself and the way it's written is so engaging. It just makes you want to continue reading. A good read. This book was recommended to me and I took one look at the size and thought \"there are like 15 books on my shelf right now that I want to read\" but against my better judgement, read it and LOVED IT! By far, the best friendship book I have ever read. Each of my closest girl friends are getting a copy for Christmas. THIS IS A MUST READ! This was a great time period story, that took me back with all of the references to cloths, songs and sayings. An unlikely friendship is created when two girls are thrown together through geography and timing. Throughout their lives it becomes clear that one is a taker and one is a giver, yet somehow this becomes a complete recipe for a lifetime bond that is quite complicated but enduring. This story truly shows how tragedies and successes shape and turn all of our lives. A 3.5 listen that was t This was a great time period story, that took me back with all of the references to cloths, songs and sayings. An unlikely friendship is created when two girls are thrown together through geography and timing. Throughout their lives it becomes clear that one is a taker and one is a giver, yet somehow this becomes a complete recipe for a lifetime bond that is quite complicated but enduring. This story truly shows how tragedies and successes shape and turn all of our lives. A 3.5 listen that was taken to a 4 by Susan Ericksen's great narration. ...more Absolutely loved this book! If you've ever had a best friend that you couldn't live without, this book is for you! Kate and Tully become BFF in the summer of 1974 when they are both awkward teens. Tully is a wild, free spirit, whose mother is a drug addict and frequently absent from her life. Kate is a well-rounded, good-girl with two stable parents and a network of love and support. Tully wants so badly to have what Katie has and Katie is eager to be free of her overbearing mother. Their tight fr Absolutely loved this book! If you've ever had a best friend that you couldn't live without, this book is for you! Kate and Tully become BFF in the summer of 1974 when they are both awkward teens. Tully is a wild, free spirit, whose mother is a drug addict and frequently absent from her life. Kate is a well-rounded, good-girl with two stable parents and a network of love and support. Tully wants so badly to have what Katie has and Katie is eager to be free of her overbearing mother. Their tight friendship begins after a night that neither of them will never forget. Through the years their frienship is put to the test, but they vow to be friends \"no matter what.\" The story follows them through high school, college, first jobs, and then stardom and motherhood. There are many references to popular culture of the time period the women are in, which is a fun reminder of things past and how the world has changed. I loved, loved, loved this book. I listened to the audio version and seriously consider reading the actual text. ...more I loved this book. This book begins with the friendship of Tully and Kate at age 12. They couldn't be any more different. Tully is a gorgeous, social free spirit, whereas Kate is awkward and tightly wound. I was fascinated with this story of a long-lasting friendship as the two characters make choices about who they are and who they want to be. I enjoyed the references to music, pop culture, and news events as the girls pass through the 1970s, 80s, 90s, to present-day. Read this book if you've eve I loved this book. This book begins with the friendship of Tully and Kate at age 12. They couldn't be any more different. Tully is a gorgeous, social free spirit, whereas Kate is awkward and tightly wound. I was fascinated with this story of a long-lasting friendship as the two characters make choices about who they are and who they want to be. I enjoyed the references to music, pop culture, and news events as the girls pass through the 1970s, 80s, 90s, to present-day. Read this book if you've ever had a friend or wanted to be a friend. And keep a box of tissues nearby! ...more I ovoj knjizi od Kristi Hannah dajem pet iako se \u010desto pitam za\u0161to mi treba da \u010ditam njene knjige. Jo\u0161 jedna u nizu divno napisanih pri\u010da, sad mogu re\u0107i da sam pro\u010ditala sve koje su prevedene kod nas i nijedna nije bila lo\u0161a, ali svaki put sam u nekom gr\u010du \u010dekaju\u0107i kraj i znam da nisam jedina koja se tako osje\u0107a. U isto vrijeme sam i ljuta i tu\u017ena... bura nekih \u010dudnih emocija u meni. Zaista preporu\u010dujem ali nije bilo jednostavno zavr\u0161iti, \u010dekala sam rasplet a u isto vrijeme molila u sebi da bude I ovoj knjizi od Kristi Hannah dajem pet iako se \u010desto pitam za\u0161to mi treba da \u010ditam njene knjige. Jo\u0161 jedna u nizu divno napisanih pri\u010da, sad mogu re\u0107i da sam pro\u010ditala sve koje su prevedene kod nas i nijedna nije bila lo\u0161a, ali svaki put sam u nekom gr\u010du \u010dekaju\u0107i kraj i znam da nisam jedina koja se tako osje\u0107a. U isto vrijeme sam i ljuta i tu\u017ena... bura nekih \u010dudnih emocija u meni. Zaista preporu\u010dujem ali nije bilo jednostavno zavr\u0161iti, \u010dekala sam rasplet a u isto vrijeme molila u sebi da bude onakav kakvog ga ja pri\u017eeljkujem. I o\u010dito je da nije bilo tako. ...more \"Firefly Lane is for anyone who ever drank Boone\u2019s Farm apple wine while listening to Abba or Fleetwood Mac. More than a coming-of-age novel, it\u2019s the story of a generation of women who were both blessed and cursed by choices. It\u2019s about promises and secrets and betrayals. And ultimately, about the one person who really, truly knows you---and knows what has the power to hurt you . . . and heal you. Firefly Lane is a story you\u2019ll never forget . . . one you\u2019ll want to pass on to your best friend.\" \"Firefly Lane is for anyone who ever drank Boone\u2019s Farm apple wine while listening to Abba or Fleetwood Mac. More than a coming-of-age novel, it\u2019s the story of a generation of women who were both blessed and cursed by choices. It\u2019s about promises and secrets and betrayals. And ultimately, about the one person who really, truly knows you---and knows what has the power to hurt you . . . and heal you. Firefly Lane is a story you\u2019ll never forget . . . one you\u2019ll want to pass on to your best friend.\" KateandTully. The unique friendship starts in 1974 when Kate Mularky and Tully Hart are young teens. It follows them through high school, college, careers, love and family spanning approximately 30 years. This was my era growing up and I absolutely loved the flashback references to the times, fads, fashions, music, and issues at hand! I've been blessed(and sometimes cursed) by a group of girls from those day that are still friends today through thick and thin. Kate and Tully have teenage dreams of when they grow up. After college, Kate has a different plan and many times she caves into Tully's doings instead of standing up for her wants. Despite an era of women who can be what ever they want to be, Kate cherishes true love and a family. Tully stays on track with her dreams of being a TV personality and over the years her fame and fortune jeopardize the BFF status. She actually puts Kate's family in harm (more than once) as she uses them to further her career. The story is about really about trust and the perils of long term friendship which can actually have hurtful times. The story gets emotional near the conclusion - warning have tissues handy! In the end, Tully is there for Kate and her family, but her loyalty comes at a price. ...more I am so glad I finally read this after having bought it over 2 years ago. This was a chunky fat read that brought back such wonderful memories, as well as being a story I enjoyed. I think if you were coming of age in the mid-70's you may have much more appreciation for this story. So many songs and world events were so fresh in my mind as I read about them here. So many people I know read this, that I had a vague idea of how the book was going to end but that didn't ruin any of the story for me. I I am so glad I finally read this after having bought it over 2 years ago. This was a chunky fat read that brought back such wonderful memories, as well as being a story I enjoyed. I think if you were coming of age in the mid-70's you may have much more appreciation for this story. So many songs and world events were so fresh in my mind as I read about them here. So many people I know read this, that I had a vague idea of how the book was going to end but that didn't ruin any of the story for me. It was a wonderfully honest portrayal and journey of the friendship of two women, Tully and Kate, from the time they met as teens, into adulthood. Their lives took entirely different paths and there's a few points in the story where you will wonder if they will weather the storms that life can throw at you; you'll need to read the book to find out if their friendship survives. As I was about 3/4 into the book, I had a feeling I was going to miss Tully and Kate once I finished and I was right. The author was able to draw me into the lives of them completely. I know there is a sequel but I'm not sure I'll read it. This book also reminds us how important it is that we really watch out for ourselves and each other. ...more Tully and Kate (TullyandKate) who both feel they are outsiders meet when they are in junior high. They are complete opposites destined to one another thanks to residency on Firefly Lane. After a horrible experience happens to Tully she confides in Kate and the two become best of friends. A friendship that spans over 30 years. The two promise to do everything together and through trials and heartbreaks they end up keeping that promise. Kristin Hannah references all the styles, songs and major even Tully and Kate (TullyandKate) who both feel they are outsiders meet when they are in junior high. They are complete opposites destined to one another thanks to residency on Firefly Lane. After a horrible experience happens to Tully she confides in Kate and the two become best of friends. A friendship that spans over 30 years. The two promise to do everything together and through trials and heartbreaks they end up keeping that promise. Kristin Hannah references all the styles, songs and major events that happened during the 70's through today giving the reader memories of their own past. While some may feel she overdid her research I truly enjoyed the trip down memory lane. Get ready to get addicted to the characters and feel like you too are a Firefly Lane Girl! This is a definite quick read and one that will have you laughing and crying over and over. Make sure to keep a box of tissues close, your best friend on speed dial and an afternoon to spend dedicated to this book because you will not want to put it down. This book will hit home! ...more UGH. i guess i should begin by saying i'm not a chick lit fan. i found this book to be incredibly formulaic and contrived, and the plot almost identical to beaches (seriously, i'm thinking lawsuit). the friendship between the two main characters was supposed to be \"forever\" and such a strong force in their lives, yet it felt hollow. all of the characters in the book were too perfect. nothing about their actions rang true. the book description from the publisher indicates that the friendship is a UGH. i guess i should begin by saying i'm not a chick lit fan. i found this book to be incredibly formulaic and contrived, and the plot almost identical to beaches (seriously, i'm thinking lawsuit). the friendship between the two main characters was supposed to be \"forever\" and such a strong force in their lives, yet it felt hollow. all of the characters in the book were too perfect. nothing about their actions rang true. the book description from the publisher indicates that the friendship is almost destroyed by a single act of betrayal, yet there were several acts. it totally did not work for me. the ONLY reason i finished it was b/c i was obligated to review it. ...more Sometimes I love a good cry. Well, if you are like me, you'll love this book. I found it amusing, emotional, moving, reminiscent and sad. It had everything in it. I would highly recommend it for a guick read. It was a little predictable in that you knew something like the end was going to happen- but it didn't take away from the impact of the ending. Beautifully written story. Brought tears to my eyes. In the Summer on 1974, Kate Mularkey happened upon one of the most gorgeous girls she has ever seen; Tully Hart. Tully moved into the house across the street with her mother Cloud. Cloud (Dorothy Hart) is a pothead and didn't care much for her daughter at all. Since Tully never had the real family that she always imagined, she was essentially adopted by the Mularkey's as their second daughter. The girls got into the typical teenage trouble of sneaking out of the house, tasting alcohol and occasi In the Summer on 1974, Kate Mularkey happened upon one of the most gorgeous girls she has ever seen; Tully Hart. Tully moved into the house across the street with her mother Cloud. Cloud (Dorothy Hart) is a pothead and didn't care much for her daughter at all. Since Tully never had the real family that she always imagined, she was essentially adopted by the Mularkey's as their second daughter. The girls got into the typical teenage trouble of sneaking out of the house, tasting alcohol and occasionally smoking. By the end of the summer, they were known as \"TullyandKate\", an inseparable union. The girls dream of growing up and becoming television news anchors. Once they became known, Tully and Kate would be rich beyond their wildest dreams and travel the world together. This has to happen, it will happen as far as Tully is concerned. Once in college, Kate decides that this may not be what she has always wanted. This is a secret that she carries around with her because she is afraid to disappoint not only her best friend, but her family as well. Kate finally does find the passion that she had always been looking for: love. That is all Kate truly wants in life. However, what about her career? What will she decide to be the drive that makes her push to succeed? Tully and Kate will discover that passion, even if it means that it's not what Tully always dreamed of. As the years pass and the girls grow older, their bond seems to only get stronger. Kate and Tully both know deep down inside that no matter what, they will always be best friends. Kristin Hannah really grasps the concept of a true friendship in this story. There are ups and downs, twists and turns, and happiness and anger. No matter how hard life gets, if you have a best friend, you will never be alone. This is definitely a recommended read for everyone who cherishes the bond of their friendships. I do have to warn you that you will need a box of tissues in the final few chapters. Well done Kristin Hannah, another book that will gladly be placed upon my shelf as a cherished and favorite book! ...more", "Title": "Firefly Lane"},
