{"Comments": "when i was about one hundred pages from the end of this book,<---M> i tugged on greg's sleeve at work</---M>, and said, \"is this gonna end sad??\" and he refused to answer. i think that was a good impulse. because i almost don't wanna review this. this book was such a beautiful journey, and taking place as it does over a number of years, there are naturally high and low points, emotionally. but i'm not going to tell you how it ends up. i will tell you that i VERY NEARLY CRIED early on.<---F> like page 42-early</---F>.i misted when i was about one hundred pages from the end of this book, i tugged on greg's sleeve at work, and said, \"is this gonna end sad??\" and he refused to answer. i think that was a good impulse. because i almost don't wanna review this. this book was such a beautiful journey, and taking place as it does over a number of years, there are naturally high and low points, emotionally. but i'm not going to tell you how it ends up. i will tell you that i VERY NEARLY CRIED early on. like page 42-early.i misted, but nothing tumbled out.that is a big deal for me, and from that point on, i was hooked. i suppose i can give you some brief descriptions, for those of you who strangely don't see the cover and instantly think \"must. read.\" jack and mabel are a couple who married late(r) in life than typical for the 1920's, suffered a miscarriage, and move to alaska to try their hand at homesteading, as a way of isolating themselves from the constant reminder of their loss, their friends and families with their healthy children, and the sorrow hanging over them. now in their fifties, the idea was that the solitude would heal them, and together, they would build a new life and cleave together with a love stronger than ever. this didn't exactly pan out, and each of them descends into their own private griefs and the hardships the brutal carelessness of nature presents, and their own inability to communicate further isolates them from any potential for healing. until one night, when an unexpected levity descends upon them, and they build a snow child together, dressing her in a hat and mittens that they have, and carving the face of a beautiful girl upon her. the next morning, the snow child, and the clothing, are gone, and there are faint footprints leading away from where the snow child was built. soon, they start seeing glimpses of a little girl in the woods in the company of a red fox. fleeting, shy, wild. is this the snow child come to life? is it all a coincidence?? is there magic afoot? is it simply grief-fueled madness? cabin fever? any other explanation? with the help of their neighbors; including the amazingly plainspoken and badass character of esther, and their elusive snow child, their solitude will lessen, and these questions will be answered, while a beautiful story unfolds. this book may be based on a fairy tale, but there is no easy magical deus ex machina at work here.the bulk of the book is about survival - whether it be survival from poverty and lack, or from loneliness and loss. it is about the bonds of family, however \"family\" is necessarily redefined through circumstances,and the painful sacrifices we make for love. it is a beautiful and mature debut novel, and although i read the ARC, i am definitely going to buy the book when it comes out, because this one is a keeper. anything else i could say would ruin it. trust me. ...more I put off reading <+++>The Snow Child</+++> because it wasn't something I would have chosen for myself without the extremely positive reviews of other goodreads members. If it is not obvious to you from the description alone, then this book is not mostly plot-driven. It's charm is upheld by the characters, the relationships, and the sad, cold mood that seems to permeate the entire novel from open to close. It is the kind of novel that I sometimes have trouble with, the kind not concerned with action or dr I put off reading <+++>The Snow Child</+++> because it wasn't something I would have chosen for myself without the extremely positive reviews of other goodreads members. If it is not obvious to you from the description alone, then this book is not mostly plot-driven. It's charm is upheld by the characters, the relationships, and the sad, cold mood that seems to permeate the entire novel from open to close. It is the kind of novel that I sometimes have trouble with, the kind not concerned with action or drama, but more subdued and subtle. However, I was fortunate in that the characters held my attention throughout and the relationship between <---C>Mabel</---C> and Jack carried something simultaneously heart-warming and bittersweet that really spoke to me. Mabel and Jack are an aging couple that have escaped from their previous reality into the Alaskan wilderness. They struggle to get by with Jack trying desperately to turn the old farm where they live into something that can support them through the harsh winters. But they are also struggling with something that runs much deeper: their childlessness and the memory of the stillborn baby that continues to drive them apart. I loved the relationship between the pair, the way they often felt distanced from one another but still relied on each other for support. It was heart-breaking to picture them sat at their table feeling the absence of a child and unable to discuss it. There's something about this novel that is just plain sad. Even when nothing particularly sad seems to be happening. It's a tone that the story never shakes and perhaps it is something to do with the description of the freezing and isolated environment that made me feel like I should prepare to burst into tears at any second. I can't say for sure whether this book was supposed to be a lesson in how you cannot run away from your problems, or how bottling things up and shutting people out never works, but I can say that I took a little bit of all of this from the story. Onto the snow child herself. It could have been an intentional move on the author's part, but I felt constantly distanced from her character; I felt perhaps she was a tool by which the main players' (Mabel and Jack) could be analysed and allowed to grow and develop. This is not so much a criticism as an observation. If you aren't aware of the basic plot outline, Mabel and Jack create a child out of the snow on a winter's night and discover the creation gone the next morning with a single trail of footsteps leading away from where it had stood. Then suddenly they start to spot a young girl roaming the woods, one who is identical to their snow sculpture and they see it as an opportunity to maybe finally have the child they always wanted. I had been all set to give this book five stars, I really had. The writing is beautiful, the characters interesting, and the relationships touching... but the ending was disappointing. For me, it seemed like an unsatisfactory \"is that it, then?\" kind of ending that left me expecting some kind of twist from the epilogue that wasn't forthcoming. It wasn't enough to make me change my mind about the rest of the story and I would still highly recommend this book, but it was quite a large fault in an otherwise near-perfect novel. ...more Thank you to the Goodreads community and my friends -- for the comments of inspiration while I was reading this book. When \"The Snow Child\" was first released in 2012, other that adoring the books cover, I was sure this book wasn't for me. I'm not sure why or what I thought it was -I just 'passed-it-over'. Well, for what's it's worth...I am more than pleasantly surprised to discover how MUCH I LIKE THIS BOOK. I don't seem to remember 'anyone' telling me it was a page turner. The blend of myth and Thank you to the Goodreads community and my friends -- for the comments of inspiration while I was reading this book. When \"The Snow Child\" was first released in 2012, other that adoring the books cover, I was sure this book wasn't for me. I'm not sure why or what I thought it was -I just 'passed-it-over'. Well, for what's it's worth...I am more than pleasantly surprised to discover how MUCH I LIKE THIS BOOK. I don't seem to remember 'anyone' telling me it was a page turner. The blend of myth and naturalism are alluring and fascinating. In all fairness, I was ready for this book. I'm not sure I was 4 years ago. Besides the story itself...It's been a long time since I even thought about the homesteading hardships in Alaska. I took a class on the history and geography of Alaska when I was an under-grad at Cal over 40 years ago. A 'few' memories come back. My emotions were invested right from the start. Having a 'story' mixed with history often makes me authentically more interested in the history. The descriptions of the Alaskan wilderness were so stunning, that I ended up looking at pictures on the Internet....( brought back memories of when I was in that college class studying Alaska- 'before' computers). I loved the beginning of this novel--it's what kicked in my momentum of desire to keep reading. I knew nothing about the Russian fairy tale-- \"Snegurochka\"...the story of 'The Snow Maiden'.... a girl half-human and half-snow. I think it was a great way to tell 'this' story-- it gave me the magical/reality context I needed to enjoy this story more. Before Faina comes into the story--I felt so much sadness for Mabel and Jack, I could imagine being 50 years old back in 1920, was a 'older-in-a-sense', than it is today in 2016. Mabel and Jack never left my thoughts the entire book--even when the story shifted more to Faina and young Garrett. Mabel had already been living with so much despair...how was her relationship with Jack going to 'thrive' ( ha), survive, their already emotional traumas-- let alone the challenging elements? --- Faina, the 'orphaned wild child', brings hope - and and zesty-energy to everyone in the community. She and her red fox disappear in the summer, return in the winter. Am I the only one who wondered where they went during the summer months? lol I didn't feel that the epilogue was necessary at the end, really. It's not that I didn't 'want' to read it --- I DID---at the same time, without it, my imagination would have had a chance to take my own path. I wonder what others think? I could chat about this book now for hours...but I'll stop-- YOU GUYS HAVE READ THIS BOOK ALREADY... ( you need my thoughts like a hole in the head)... But it's all true: This is a wonderful book: sad, chilling, mysterious, magical and realistic! \"Where you off to? Jack asked as he scraped the last fork full of egg and potato from his plate \"I thought I go out for a walk, just to see the snow\". On that note ....it's still summer here in California...\"I'm walking outside for sunshine - to ride my spin-bike under the tree and continue reading. Love to my friends!!! ...more Once upon a time there lived a childless old couple... This is not an uncommon beginning to folk tales, a simple introductory line which can (and in <---A>Eowyn Ivey</---A>'s The Snow Child does) condense into a few simple words the years of pain, sadness, and intense longing for something that nature refused to give despite desperate desire. \"Where else in life, Mabel wondered, could a woman love so openly and with such abandon?\" This is where I saw the strengths of The Snow Child - not in the imagery of Al Once upon a time there lived a childless old couple... This is not an uncommon beginning to folk tales, a simple introductory line which can (and in Eowyn Ivey's The Snow Child does) condense into a few simple words the years of pain, sadness, and intense longing for something that nature refused to give despite desperate desire. \"Where else in life, Mabel wondered, could a woman love so openly and with such abandon?\" This is where I saw the strengths of The Snow Child - not in the imagery of Alaskan wilderness through the prism of magical realism, not in the enigmatic nature of the titular snow child, but in the depiction of quiet, desperate sadness and alienation that plagues a deeply unhappy couple, torn apart by the weight of grief, struggling under the burden of their perceived failures. \"Was that why they had come north\u2014 to build a life? Or did fear drive her? Fear of the gray, not just in the strands of her hair and her wilting cheeks, but the gray that ran deeper, to the bone, so that she thought she might turn into a fine dust and simply sift away in the wind.\" Jack and Mabel are an aging couple who left their old life and moved to Alaska seemingly to start a homestead but really to escape the weight of their loss that, turns out, they were not able to leave behind with their old lives. More than anything, Mabel desired to have a child, defining herself through the view of motherhood - but all she and Jack have is the memory of a tiny deformed stillborn, the one that Mabel hasn't even had a chance to say goodbye to as Jack (with the best intentions, sadly) quickly took it away for a silent nighttime burial. Years later, neither Mabel nor Jack have overcome their grief and loneliness. Instead of reaching out to each other, instead of finding ways to cope they seem to have retreated deep into each own self, allowing tiny cracks to appear in their marriage, withdrawing behind invisible doors, isolating themselves from the world filled with life and children and constant reminders of their loss and (at least in their perception) failure. In this state of mind, leaving everything behind and trying to start a brand-new life in Alaska seemed like a promise of a new better life - or so Mabel had hoped. \"Mabel had known there would be silence. That was the point, after all. No infants cooing or wailing. No neighbor children playfully hollering down the lane. No pad of small feet on wooden stairs worn smooth by generations, or clackety-clack of toys along the kitchen floor. All those sounds of her failure and regret would be left behind, and in their place there would be silence.\" But little has changed in the new place - the sadness that rules their lives, enveloped in silence and things-not-quite-said refused to be left behind. And here they are, in Alaska, still grieving, still drifting apart, Mabel suicidal in her depression, Jack preoccupied with simply trying to provide sustenance to his family, and things have never looked bleaker for the two of them. \"Was that why they had come north \u2014 to build a life? Or did fear drive her? Fear of the gray, not just in the strands of her hair and her wilting cheeks, but the gray that ran deeper, to the bone, so that she thought she might turn into a fine dust and simply sift away in the wind.\" These parts of quiet desperation in which Jack and Mabel existed - because at this point it was mere existence and not quite life - were the parts that emotionally connected with me. There is that elusive *something* in the pervasive melancholy superimposed onto the landscape beautiful but cold and severe that touches the soul and pulls on the heartstrings , and even though you know that it's calculated to precisely do just that to your poor vulnerable heartstrings you cannot help but feeling for this miserable couple deeply and sincerely. My heart ached for Mabel even though I cannot quite relate to her plight. But, unlike her, I can imagine a world where not having children can be a choice instead of a curse, where being a mother is not the sole expectation for a woman, where it is okay to admit to the lack of allure of maternity. For me, such a world is part of our reality. For Mabel, on the other hand, not having children has been out of question - and her not having them was merely unnatural in the America of the 1920s. \"If you said you didn\u2019t have children, it sounded like a choice, and what kind of craziness would that be? If you said you couldn\u2019t, the conversation turned awkward while they contemplated your manliness or your wife\u2019s health.\" And then, just as everything seems to be hopeless, the Snow Child appears - a strange and ethereal Faina, a little girl who appears on the night Jack and Mabel in a giddy trance make a snow sculpture in their yard, a child who only is seen in winter and seems one with the snow-covered stern world of Alaska. To Mabel, something about her reminds of a Russian children's story about a snow maiden that graced the lives of an old childless couple; and as far as Mabel remembers, the story does not have a happy ending. Mabel's Snow Maiden is very familiar to any Russian child. Snegurochka , a tragic young maiden made of snow, doomed to demise by the fire/spring/love in the many versions of the fairytale (beautifully depicted by the famous painter Vasnetsov below) , who through the last couple of centuries came to fill the role of the granddaughter of Father Frost, the ubiquitous presence at any kindergarten New Year's Day party, the inspiration for the many children's New Year's outfits (see baby Nataliya below as a very special snowflake/Snegurochka) : Faina, unfortunately, is the weak link in the melancholic fragile magic that is the sadness of this book. Is she real or fantastical? A snow child or an abandoned little girl? seems to be the question that plagues her adoptive parents; her vulnerable fragility masked by the exterior of strength and stubbornness is touching, indeed. But it's precisely this mysteriousness, further underscored by the quotation-mark-less dialogue every time Faina makes her appearance was what for me prevented the formation of any meaningful connection with her. Faina's appearances, right down to the 'what just happened here?' last one I found instead frustrating, jarring and interrupting the tone of the book. Mabel's friend Esther, basically the embodiment of life energy that Mabel appears to lack, a breath of vitality in the slow melancholic existence. Unfortunately, this stark contrast again breaks the mood of this book that hinges on quiet sadness. Overall, I found this book to be a lovely story, even if far from perfect. It's captivating in its own quiet way when it focuses on its strength - the fragile yet tender relationship between two aging lonely people in the cold and cruel but beautiful world. 3.5 stars and a respectful nod to Eowyn Ivey for a rather strong debut work. \"But he knelt at her feet, put his head in her lap, and they held each other and shared the sorrow of an old man and an old woman who have lost their only child.\" ...more So this story was beautiful with so many cute and heartbreaking moments. One of the best things in the book is the character development and the developing relationships throughout the story. From the start of the book, I nearly started crying because there was just scenes that were so heart wrenching especially at the end which completely broke my heart. All the characters are perfect in this novel, they all have their faults but just as many strengths and the unexpected romance towards the end So this story was beautiful with so many cute and heartbreaking moments. One of the best things in the book is the character development and the developing relationships throughout the story. From the start of the book, I nearly started crying because there was just scenes that were so heart wrenching especially at the end which completely broke my heart. All the characters are perfect in this novel, they all have their faults but just as many strengths and the unexpected romance towards the end just killed me. Faina, the snow child is one of the coolest characters I have ever met as she's a quiet badass. Her interactions with Mabel and Jack are so cute and the relationship that develops between the three of them is adorable. The neighbours, George, Esther and their children are hilarious especially Esther. She's a woman who gets stuck in and says what she's thinking. The looming tale of the Russian fairytale is beautifully woven in along the story and sometimes makes you question yourself. The way the story progresses is brilliant and everything happening in the story is engrossing. I completely fell in love with this book and I have to buy my own copy. This has definitely weaved it's way into my favourites because of the strong emotions it made my feel while reading it.A woeful tale full of both tragedies and joy but a fantastic read. ...more I loved this sweet story! So much heart and a little magic! \"'There,' he said. He stepped back. Sculpted in the white snow were perfect, lovely eyes, a nose, and small, white lips. She even thought she could see cheekbones and a little chin...How could she speak her surprise? Such delicate features. formed by his calloused hands, a glimpse at his longing. Surely, he too, had wanted children...they believed that someday their Christmas mornings would reel with running children and squeals of delight. She sewed a small stocking of their firstborn and he s \"'There,' he said. He stepped back. Sculpted in the white snow were perfect, lovely eyes, a nose, and small, white lips. She even thought she could see cheekbones and a little chin...How could she speak her surprise? Such delicate features. formed by his calloused hands, a glimpse at his longing. Surely, he too, had wanted children...they believed that someday their Christmas mornings would reel with running children and squeals of delight. She sewed a small stocking of their firstborn and he sketched plans for a rocking horse he would build. Maybe the first would be a girl, or would be a boy? How could they have known that twenty years later they would still be childless, just an old man and an old woman alone in the wildnerness?\" A fairytale retelling of the Russian fairytale, \"Snegurochka\" (\"The Snow Maiden\"), this quietly intense book captured my heart from the very beginning, and would not let go. Jack and Mabel live in 1920 in the harsh reality that is the wilderness of Alpine, Alaska, with its unbearable summer heat, then all too quickly, with its freezing bitter winter cold, snow and ice, the lack of visibility, the isolation and loneliness. Most of all, they face the fear of not being able to survive the brutal winter, they watch and wait each year for the first signs of spring. They are childless, and not by choice. Jack and Mabel hold their grief close, weighted down, buried deep within their hearts. But one night, they let go of their grief and create a beautiful child out of snow...and in that moment, their lives will change forever, hope and light will replace despair and depression. Eowyn Ivey writes so vividly that I felt I was in the middle of the snow and then a full blown snow storm, and during the summer scenes, I felt the heat of the hot sun, the mosquitoes swarming. This story is such a beautiful example of magical realism, the fantastical, the imagined, combined and layered into the every day real life. And such a life that this couple experienced in the Alaskan wilderness where nothing is taken for granted, where preparing for the upcoming winter is paramount all spring and all summer. I recommend this story to anyone that values the beauty and selflessness of true friendship, who has ever dealt with love and loss in their life, or to those who are parents, as this book speaks to the nature of giving, caring, nurturing, but eventually, having to let go... And then, the wonder of the miraculous snow child appears out of nowhere... \"The girl appeared and disappeared without warning and it unnerved Jack. There was something otherworldly in her manners and appearance, her frosty lashes and cool blue stare, the way she materialized out of the forest. In ways she was clearly just a little girl, with her small frame and rare, stifled giggles, but in others she seemed composed and wise, as if she moved through the world with knowledge beyond anything Jack had encountered.\" ...more It's truly gratifying to come across a book that evokes the senses to such a degree that its flavor is brought to the palate. Such is the case with Eowyn Ivey's debut novel, The Snow Child. Infused with aspects of pine boughs, mountain herbs, woolen mittens and inspired by happenstance, it breathes new life into an old Russian children's tale Ivey stumbled upon in her bookstore. We come to know of aging Jack and Mabel through their childless sorrows, playful intense love and survivalist fortitude It's truly gratifying to come across a book that evokes the senses to such a degree that its flavor is brought to the palate. Such is the case with Eowyn Ivey's debut novel, The Snow Child. Infused with aspects of pine boughs, mountain herbs, woolen mittens and inspired by happenstance, it breathes new life into an old Russian children's tale Ivey stumbled upon in her bookstore. We come to know of aging Jack and Mabel through their childless sorrows, playful intense love and survivalist fortitude all cruxing on a belief in dreams and a touch of magic. Through imagery spun with such crispness as to leave a skiff of snow on your heart and the bite of cold wilderness air in your lungs, it's nearly impossible not to fall deeply into the story of Faina and her enchanted sudden appearance. And I must say, the skill with which Ivey works your emotions--ebbing and flowing like tides with each of Faina's heartbreaking disappearances--belies the fact this is her first book. Devastation and light, fear and hope, all there. At the end, I found myself believing Jack, Mabel, Faina and the cast of supportive neighbors--pragmatic George, boisterous Esther and their helpful wide-eyed son Garrett--really existed somewhere, somehow. (surely these must be real Alaskan folk...) I can only leave you with this: when you bring this book into your world, carve out time to give it your full attention. Then make a space for it on your shelf of favorites, it belongs there. ...more This is a beautifully written book. The Snow Child is inspired by the Russian folktale in which a childless elderly couple make a snowchild that comes to life as a young girl. Ivey's use of the folktale is multilayered and inventive, and works very well in the book's setting of Alaska in the 1920s. I cared about the characters, but I especially loved the depictions of the Alaskan wilderness throughout the seasons. The novel also pays homage to freedom and individuality, while at the same time cel This is a beautifully written book. The Snow Child is inspired by the Russian folktale in which a childless elderly couple make a snowchild that comes to life as a young girl. Ivey's use of the folktale is multilayered and inventive, and works very well in the book's setting of Alaska in the 1920s. I cared about the characters, but I especially loved the depictions of the Alaskan wilderness throughout the seasons. The novel also pays homage to freedom and individuality, while at the same time celebrating the bonds of friendship, love and trust that tie together friends and family. One theme that resonates with me is the importance of being a part of something larger than oneself - a family, a farm, a close friendship, nature. ...more 4 stars! I truly enjoyed the experience of reading this beautifully written book! The author, Eowyn Ivey, has an unbelievably unique and astounding way with words. She paints such a clear picture that draws the reader right into the snow filled fields of the Alaskan homestead. I was completely engrossed in Jack and Mabel's love story. The struggles they endured as a couple only made their bond stronger as husband and wife. I had endless sympathy for them as I witnessed their vulnerabilities as s 4 stars! I truly enjoyed the experience of reading this beautifully written book! The author, Eowyn Ivey, has an unbelievably unique and astounding way with words. She paints such a clear picture that draws the reader right into the snow filled fields of the Alaskan homestead. I was completely engrossed in Jack and Mabel's love story. The struggles they endured as a couple only made their bond stronger as husband and wife. I had endless sympathy for them as I witnessed their vulnerabilities as struggling farmers, their hopelessness at accepting that they could not bear children, their struggles to figure out where Faina fit into their world. I loved each and every character in this story - my most favourite being Esther, Mabel and Jack's \"neighbour\". She was outspoken and overbearing, yet she had such a warm, endearing way about her - it was like she commanded your love and respect without you realizing it. She welcomed Mabel and Jack into her life with open arms and loved them like family from the moment she met them. Mabel, being a shy, reserved woman, didn't know how to handle Esther at first with her outgoing, take-charge personality. I giggled to myself a few times while reading their initial interactions. I was hesitant in picking up this book due to the \"fantasy\" aspect, however, the \"magic\" of this story is so well done that I was able to accept it and \"run with it\". While I didn't love this book quite as much as Ivey's most recent novel, To The Bright Edge Of The World, I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of reading such a unique and beautifully written story. ...more This incredibly beautiful story was inspired by and tenderly envelopes an Old Russian folktale. One evening an elderly, childless couple build a girl out of snow. Come morning it is missing, leaving faint footprints, from where the snow child once stood. Set deep in the Alaskan wilderness, the environment is like a mirror on our couple, one that Ivey breathes life into, through the many seasons of this tale. I loved the stark, majestic beauty of the always there and always demanding landscape. Ou This incredibly beautiful story was inspired by and tenderly envelopes an Old Russian folktale. One evening an elderly, childless couple build a girl out of snow. Come morning it is missing, leaving faint footprints, from where the snow child once stood. Set deep in the Alaskan wilderness, the environment is like a mirror on our couple, one that Ivey breathes life into, through the many seasons of this tale. I loved the stark, majestic beauty of the always there and always demanding landscape. Our couple, Jack and Mabel, have left Pennsylvania behind, with their still born child, and invested all they have in a homestead in Wolverine River, Alaska. Each of them pack up their own baggage, their own heartache, their own hopes, and they keep them close, insulating them from the memories of what might have been and from each other. But love has many rooms and Jack and Mabel have built a home. With the dream like quality of a good fairy tale I was quite simply enchanted. A simple story, a wonderful rendition, an enchanting cover\u2026.come on! ...more ''There once was an old man and woman who loved each other very much and were content with their lot in life except for one great sadness- they had no children of their own.'' I've often read that it is difficult to write a review about books that left you indifferent, distant. I agree, but for me, writing a review about a novel that left me speechless with its beauty is equally hard. Where do words stop? Where should we stop analyzing and dissecting a work of literature and let the power of th ''There once was an old man and woman who loved each other very much and were content with their lot in life except for one great sadness- they had no children of their own.'' I've often read that it is difficult to write a review about books that left you indifferent, distant. I agree, but for me, writing a review about a novel that left me speechless with its beauty is equally hard. Where do words stop? Where should we stop analyzing and dissecting a work of literature and let the power of the story speak for itself? Jack and Mabel is a couple that love each other unconditionally and yet, their life together is tarnished by the absence of a child. Their decision to move to Alaska, in a remote area of the Last Frontier, is their final attempt to start anew, on virgin ground, away from their relatives' gossips and silent pity. A tough place to begin again, one may say, but I believe that we are often in need of a shock, in need of a drastic change of environment, to look upon our lives under a new light, to attempt to correct our wrongs or chase our fears away. It is not easy. Far from it. And it is not easy for our protagonists either. ''November was here, and it frightened her because she knew what it brought- cold upon the valley like a coming death, glacial wind through the cracks between the cabin logs. But most of all, darkness. Darkness so complete even the pale-lit hours would be chocked.'' While Jack retains his contact with the ''outside'' world, Mabel stays home waiting, reading, baking pies, slowly letting herself become a vulnerable prey to her sadness. Then, one cold, beautiful, snowy evening, she and Jack decide to let themselves become children again, and a miracle happens. A beautiful child starts visiting them. No more about the plot, we are treading on thin ice here. Let us turn our focus to the characters. The way Ivey has created the relationship between Jack and Mabel is astonishing. It is a love that is realistic. earthy, devoted and full of equal trust. Jack is like a rock that supports Mabel in her every step, Mabel is tenderness, determination and the sole reason he keeps on going. Actually, they are each other's reason to persevere and tame the wild, formidable nature and make it their home. Mabel adds to the ambiguity of the narration. There is an intense feeling of uncertainty, especially in the first half of the story. Is she a reliable narrator? What is this young girl that seems to appear out of nowhere? Is she a forest child spirit? A creature of winter? Or is she a human child of flesh and blood with an unquenched, primeval instict of survival? The characters that move in the periphery of the action are quite interesting in their own merit. Aside from Faina, Esther and Garrett occupy much of the plot. Esther is a solid character, a strong woman, as strong as the harsh landscape. I'm sure that most of us would like to have her as our close friend. Garrett takes on quite a distinctive role during the second half of the novel. Ivey writes her tale in a language of impeccable beauty, creating immediate images in the mind of a reader, with a vividness that takes you away, carrying you into the heart of the story. The characters jump out of the page, you are able to smell and feel the wintry air on your face, the aroma of the cold and the fur trees. You can feel the softness of the snow, the crispiness of a newly - formed snowball, the heat from the woodstove and its cozy light around the wooden cabin. There is a nightly ice - skating sequence that is, possibly, one of the finest, most beautiful, heartwarming passages I've ever read. ''We never know what is going to happen, do we? Life is always throwing us this way and that. That's where the adventure is.'' Based on a Russian fairy-tale, this story resembles every bit of the beauty of the Russian folk tales. It is sad, hopeful and sensitive, its characters are people like us. It is an example of how exciting can the mixture of realism and magic realism become when done right. It is a creation of love, nature, darkness and light. A creation of persistance and strength, of all those elements we encounter in our daily lives, those we adopt and the dark ones that we try to scare away. The way I see it, these are the ingredients of a beautiful, classic story. The Snow Child by Eowyn Ivey is certain to become one. So forget all pretentious ''philosophies'' about the ''deeper meaning the author wanted to convey'', and allow yourselves to become children, playing with the snow on a starry night. Escape to a snowy plain in Alaska and let magic in. You will not be disappointed... ...more Amazing talent, beautifully delivered. This is a five sense book, and maybe a sixth and seventh as well. I could hear a bull moose snorting, swan screaming, snow crunching, river ice cracking. I could taste moose meat for the thirtieth and 100th time; smell wet wool and blood, birch fire and moonshine. I could touch the two-man saw, feel the weight of an ax, and the tiny threads of intricate embroidery. And always, always the snow and the earth beneath. I could see rows and rows of crops growing Amazing talent, beautifully delivered. This is a five sense book, and maybe a sixth and seventh as well. I could hear a bull moose snorting, swan screaming, snow crunching, river ice cracking. I could taste moose meat for the thirtieth and 100th time; smell wet wool and blood, birch fire and moonshine. I could touch the two-man saw, feel the weight of an ax, and the tiny threads of intricate embroidery. And always, always the snow and the earth beneath. I could see rows and rows of crops growing in the heat of the short Alaska season - in fact I dreamed about it last night. Sense of place is superbly developed, as expertly crafted as a prize winning pie, or a winter coat made reverently by hand. Ivey grew up in Alaska and clearly loves where she still lives. The characters in this debut novel are cradled, grown, tried and triumphed in the rugged, unforgiving wilderness. And out of the night in an Alaska blizzard, when grief and solitude are crusted around homesteader hearts, a little girl with pale eyelashes and a fur hat appears in the frost on the window. ...more There is a special kind of emptiness in a marriage, when both the partners long for a child without success. Their private moments change from solitude to loneliness: intimate chatter degenerates into monosyllables before ultimately descending into dark silence. The carefree laughter of a child, the picture of a smiling cherubic face, or the pitter-patter of small feet on the road all become exquisite torture - reminders of some esoteric happiness forever out of reach. I know... I have been there There is a special kind of emptiness in a marriage, when both the partners long for a child without success. Their private moments change from solitude to loneliness: intimate chatter degenerates into monosyllables before ultimately descending into dark silence. The carefree laughter of a child, the picture of a smiling cherubic face, or the pitter-patter of small feet on the road all become exquisite torture - reminders of some esoteric happiness forever out of reach. I know... I have been there. It must be (at least in part) to tackle this anxiety creatively that fairy-tales use the trope of the childless couple quite frequently. The story is quite formulaic: there will be an old couple (mostly on the edge of a wood) who would have been longing for a child without success for ages. Finally out of desperation, the woman (or in some cases, both the partners together) would fashion a child's likeness out of some unlikely object such as wood or mud, treat it like a human child for one night, and - hey presto! - it would become human overnight. The overjoyed couple would raise it as their own, but the story would usually end badly, with the breaking of some taboo resulting in the child going away. \"Snegurochka\" (Snow Maiden) is a Russian fairy tale where the child is fashioned out of snow by a childless woodcutter and his wife, and subsequently brought to life by Father Frost, the spirit of the winter, who takes pity on them. The snow maiden lives with her foster parents quite happily until she falls for a human boy against the express admonitions of Father Frost - the warmth inside melts her, and she fades away bringing spring to the countryside in the process. From myths.e2bn.org: As the snow maiden faded away, spring spread over the land: the frost retreated and the small flowers of the fields began to bloom. Everyone was cheered by the return of spring. Everyone that is except, the young shepherd who felt desolate and cold, despite the warmth of the sun. As for the old couple, they felt their loss deeply but, in their hearts, they had always known the magic could not last. They were just thankful for the beautiful snow maiden who had brought such warmth and joy to their lives and given them hope in the depths of winter. But what of the snow maiden? Well, it is said that, as she melted away, her spirit was caught by Father Frost who retreated to far lands with the advance of Mother Spring. He took the spirit of his daughter across the stars to the frozen lands of the north, where she again took the form of a beautiful young woman. Here she plays all through the summer - on the frozen seas. But, each year in winter, on the first day of the New Year, Father Frost and the Snow Maiden return to Russia in their troika (sleigh). And they continue to work their magic, as they did long ago for the woodcutter and his wife, for those who are good and kind, particularly the children, bringing them small gifts and helping to make their dreams come true. ----------------------------------------- Eowyn Ivey has taken this bittersweet story, transplanted it to the rural Alaska of 1920's, and woven a tale which is every bit as magical as the original. Her protagonists are Mabel and Jack, who are trying to make a living on their farm, fighting against the unforgiving climate as well as life, which has given them only the memory of a stillborn child to live on. The couple are slowly moving apart, and Mabel is on the verge of suicide when, in one blustery night of mad gaiety they a fashion a girl out of snow in front of their cabin. Next day, the child is gone - and a wild girl starts visiting them, clandestinely at first, then more and more openly. The girl, Faina, is more or less adopted by the couple soon. Their close friends George and Esther initially consider the unseen girl as a hallucination conjured up by Mabel, but after the initial shock of meeting her in person, comes to accept her as she is. Their youngest son, Garrett, a boy of the forest himself is initially antagonistic. Well, as so often happens, antagonism changes to fascination, mutual attraction and love... and the story moves towards its expected climax (and no, this is not a spoiler!). The beauty of this novel is that it does not follow the trope of the fairy tale blindly. Faina (the child) has a mysterious past as the daughter of an eccentric trapper who died in the forest. She lives off the wild, hunting and eating animals in a strangely feral manner. It is left to us to decide whether Faina is real or a phantasm. While such a style could easily become contrived, Ivey walks the tightrope expertly. There are times when we feel that the novelist is slipping into the realms of fantasy, but every time she pulls back just in time. Contrasted with Faina are Mabel and Jack, who are very real. Mabel, with her cultured upbringing and artistic tendencies, is the bridge that links the gritty and unromantic world of rural America to the poesy of the snowy slopes of the far north. In fact, the story is almost self-referential in the sense that Mabel owns a book telling the story of the snow maiden, which her father (a literature professor) used to read to her: however, she learns as an adult that he only pretended to read, because the tale is in Russian! Only the pictures make sense, including the terrifying last one of the melted maiden. We follow the characters with bated breath as they move along their pre-ordained paths - but the end, when it comes, is refreshingly different from yet absolutely faithful to the original. I will leave it at that. ----------------------------------------- From myths.e2bn.org: In countries that had long harsh winters, the coming of spring was also an immensely important event, particularly to the poor for whom the winters could be extremely harsh. The Russian story of the Snow Maiden sees the battle between the eternal forces of nature (Father Frost and Mother Spring) for warmth to return to the land. And for spring to return, winter has to die. The theme and the interaction of these mythical characters with mortal people like Kupava and Mizgir through the character of the Snow Maiden, would have been very meaningful to people, who longed for and celebrated the return of spring. Birth, death, rebirth - these are the themes of ageless tales. There are no full stops in life, but an endless cycle of seasons through which we eke out our existence - brief candles, whose flames are ephemeral yet eternal at some level. Four well-deserved stars. ...more \u201cNo warm blood in me doth glow, Water in my veins doth flow; Yet I\u2019ll laugh and sing and play By frosty night and frosty day\u2013 Little daughter of the Snow. \u201cBut whenever I do know That you love me little, then I shall melt away again. Back into the sky I\u2019ll go\u2013 Little daughter of the Snow.\u201d - An extract from Little Daughter of the Snow by Arthur Ransome. You can read the short story here. This book... it's a dream. An unhurried, ethereal, captivating dream - so captivating, that I cleared out my currently-r \u201cNo warm blood in me doth glow, Water in my veins doth flow; Yet I\u2019ll laugh and sing and play By frosty night and frosty day\u2013 Little daughter of the Snow. \u201cBut whenever I do know That you love me little, then I shall melt away again. Back into the sky I\u2019ll go\u2013 Little daughter of the Snow.\u201d - An extract from Little Daughter of the Snow by Arthur Ransome. You can read the short story here. This book... it's a dream. An unhurried, ethereal, captivating dream - so captivating, that I cleared out my currently-reading shelf after the first two pages so that I could bask unhindered in the spell this book cast on me. The Snow Child is a retelling of the Russian fairy-tale Snegurochka or The Snow Maiden . Eowyn Ivey's debut tells the story of an old childless couple in the Alaskan wilderness, who shape a little girl from snow during the winter's first snowfall. What happens thereafter is pretty obvious. The first half of this book is absolute perfection. The Alaskan setting, the characters, the magic in the winter air - everything comes alive through Ivey's gorgeous prose. Somewhere past the halfway mark however, the story takes a detour from the original fairy-tale and things get impossibly more real with every page, finally ending on a note that's too bizarre to fully comprehend. The Snow Child constantly hovers on the border between illusion and reality , which may either be the book's strongest point or it's undoing, because if you think about the plot too long, many threads come untethered and threaten to unravel. Jack and Mabel are some of the realest characters I've ever encountered. I cannot claim to exactly understand their anguish; I'm too young for that. But I could feel it - in the silence, in the breath of the narration, in the things that were deliberately left unsaid. I understand how the absence of something (or someone) can haunt a person like a presence. I understand why seeking an explanation may not be so important when the thing you most desire ends up at your doorstep. On the contrary, the Snow Child herself, or Faina as she's called, never felt real to me. I'm guessing this was the author's intention. It works well in the beginning when Faina is more of an illusion, coming and going like a shadow. The second half adds (or tries to add) more substance to Faina - something I had trouble digesting - which is probably why it felt weaker in comparison. The entire story has an undercurrent of sorrow to it. In the beginning, Jack and Mabel grieve for what they never had. Once Faina enters their lives, this grief takes the form of a quiet desperation; the dread of losing what they now have, even though Faina is more of a phantom-child than a real daughter. Another thing that struck me was the occasional streak of violence . There are many animal killings in the book. Surviving in a landscape like Alaska would entail hunting for meat but in retrospect, I feel these scenes were strategically placed at intervals. Like the visual of blood on snow was meant to combat the fascinating idea of a child born of snow. Not much happens in the book plot-wise. Some of the most enchanting parts are also the quietest. It's like peering into a snow-globe - the scenery does not change; yet, there's something so captivating in simply watching the glitter settle, and also this feeling of fragility, like how the world inside the globe could shatter in a single fall. Fairy-tale or not, The Snow Child requires you to follow the rules of one: It doesn't matter why or how things happen; just that they happen . If you can do that, this book will take you on an enchanting journey. A stunning, stunning debut. Highly recommended. ...more Poor Eowyn Ivey. Well, not literally. This novel probably secures her pension annuity better than anyone else\u2019s. Its Big (both novel, hence, pension). But if she is the woman I suspect she is, she\u2019s likely twisting and turning at night over how she botched a masterpiece and brought a spectacular turn to heel. Of course any reference to \u2018masterpiece\u2019 is biased. One man\u2019s meat and another\u2019s poison applies. But. There is something, something, about screwing around with childhood folklore, which guar Poor Eowyn Ivey. Well, not literally. This novel probably secures her pension annuity better than anyone else\u2019s. Its Big (both novel, hence, pension). But if she is the woman I suspect she is, she\u2019s likely twisting and turning at night over how she botched a masterpiece and brought a spectacular turn to heel. Of course any reference to \u2018masterpiece\u2019 is biased. One man\u2019s meat and another\u2019s poison applies. But. There is something, something, about screwing around with childhood folklore, which guarantees instant and unconditional empathy. Inasmuch as we are all weaned on the magic of folktale generality, our first foray into making sense of the world, so that any return to it is so sacred an author needs only to wrestle failure out of guaranteed success. Ivey falls captive to the tale of Snegurochka, and tries her hand. Already she is ahead of the game. Running a bookshop in Alaska, she is no stranger to snow, remoteness, isolation, and the magical synechdoche of man and nature. The woman has a toolkit you and I don\u2019t: so bring it. And she\u2019s off to a stunning start. An elderly couple in Alaska. A snow maiden. Is she real? Is she a fayrie? A slow tease in exquisite narrative continuo layers realism with phantasia in a blancmange of unfettered expectation: I\u2019m swept along in ephemeral tidings of crenulated reality: a splintering of dimension which rivets and furrows into logica long forgotten and discounted: a resurrection of belief and hope and wondering: a sense of wonder, a surreal wisp. And then: Ivey reaches a stumbling block: I can picture her frantic tepishorean agony as she searches for a way forward, and....flounders. A half baked incoherent denouement where maiden thrives in heat but melts in cold: huh, huh? A cold mother, a listless entity? Come on, Ivey: what did you do to Snegurochka? Child abandonment? Really? No. Snegurochka abandons. But only those who are worthy. Don\u2019t muck with my childhood bread and butter. I really, really, don\u2019t need a 21c Grimm. I\u2019m grim enough as it is. ...more The Snow Child by Eowyn Ivey is a wonderful fairytale for adults(and whoever fancies it) set against the harsh backdrop of 1920s Alaska. Sometimes a little of what you fancy does you good ! And so I fancied a fairytale and it did me the world of good!!! This is the story of Jack and Mabel a childless couple who move to Alaska to farm and to etch a living from the harsh and frozen land. A man and woman set in their ways, Jack the stubborn sort who is too proud to ask for help and Mabel who fears f The Snow Child by Eowyn Ivey is a wonderful fairytale for adults(and whoever fancies it) set against the harsh backdrop of 1920s Alaska. Sometimes a little of what you fancy does you good ! And so I fancied a fairytale and it did me the world of good!!! This is the story of Jack and Mabel a childless couple who move to Alaska to farm and to etch a living from the harsh and frozen land. A man and woman set in their ways, Jack the stubborn sort who is too proud to ask for help and Mabel who fears friendship and both mourning the loss of their only child in their own lonely way. One night after a heavy snowfall they make a snow child and adorning the figure with mittens and scarf. The following morning the snow child has been trampled and the mittens and scarf are missing and the couple spot a small figure running through the trees. Mabel recalls an old Russian Fairy tale about a snow child coming to life and hopes she has made her longed for child that she can love. Is she real or a just imagined by Mabel and Jack? There is so much to love about this story, I was so excited to read an adult fairytale, The details of Pioneer life in Alaska are beautifully written along with the description of the harsh winter environment and the animals naive to this country. This is a novel rich in characters and prose and for a debut novel it is extremely well written. A tale of love and loss of friendships and hardships. A book that will stay with you long after you finish. ...more I, is for Ivey 5 Stars I'll let you in on a little secret *shhhhh* I love fairy tales, and the darker they are the better I like them. There is something so intriguing to me about the extremity of these stories, they appeal my twisted little brain. Oftentimes in darker, Grimm-style tales the punishment is so unsuitable for the indiscretion. It reminds me of \"Hannibal\" and his penchant for serving up people who are rude to him for dinner. So EXTREME , so deliciously *snicker* finite. I mention the I, is for Ivey 5 Stars I'll let you in on a little secret *shhhhh* I love fairy tales, and the darker they are the better I like them. There is something so intriguing to me about the extremity of these stories, they appeal my twisted little brain. Oftentimes in darker, Grimm-style tales the punishment is so unsuitable for the indiscretion. It reminds me of \"Hannibal\" and his penchant for serving up people who are rude to him for dinner. So EXTREME , so deliciously *snicker* finite. I mention the above as backstory to me, not to this story. This isn\u2019t that type of story. This is a dark, rather bleak retelling of The Snow Maiden (A fairytale I have NOT read but have heard several variations of in my life). The Snow Child is set in the 1920\u2019s in the brutal and uncompromising land of Alaska. A land where the beauty is truly sublime!! Mother Nature can, and will, kill you if you don\u2019t bow to her whims. There we meet Mabel and Jack, an older couple who has moved to Alaska after the traumatic loss of a child, and encounter the ferocity that is nature. This is a story with much texture and anguish to it. It\u2019s backbreaking work eeking out a living on a homestead in Alaska and Ivey holds no punches in showing the reader just what a toll those conditions will take on a person. There is A LOT of humanity to this tale; a bevy of miscommunications and secret keepings take place between these two along the line. And while there is a fantastical side to this tale, Ivey does an incredible job of making that fantastical believable. The Snow Child is a beautiful and raw tale. The hunting scenes are AMAZING which, as the daughter of a hunter, I thoroughly applaud Ivey for. This isn\u2019t a cookie-cutter retelling here. I would recommend this story to anyone who loves darker fairy tales and/or stories of human resourcefulness and survival. ...more 4.5 shining stars Utterly, utterly gorgeous. Review to come. I'm puzzled as to why this isn't considered Young Adult. Well, more of an eyebrow raise of sardonic 'Really? You're going to go that way?', for I have a pretty good idea of why this was pushed up into the adult realm. I simply don't agree with the argument for such. Now, I adore new renditions of old tales as a matter of principle, for a host of reasons ranging from the past being a foreign and sometimes hateful country, to a childhood lust for urban fantasy that I never quite outgrew. Any story I'm puzzled as to why this isn't considered Young Adult. Well, more of an eyebrow raise of sardonic 'Really? You're going to go that way?', for I have a pretty good idea of why this was pushed up into the adult realm. I simply don't agree with the argument for such. Now, I adore new renditions of old tales as a matter of principle, for a host of reasons ranging from the past being a foreign and sometimes hateful country, to a childhood lust for urban fantasy that I never quite outgrew. Any story may be retold, but even my current appetite for more sedate literature has not dampened the intrigue that sparks up whenever I see mention of a fairy tale told anew. It is that otherworldly aura in the hard-bitten setting of modern times that I crave, the best being the exquisite balance between the baleful spikes of reality and the Old Testament viciousness of Grimm. Needless to say, I went into this story with definite expectations. Said expectations were not carried through. The characters were solid yet utterly predictable, the plot meandered along the original story line with little effort to circumvent the old with the delightful heartbeat of the new, and that visual imagery I had heard so much about failed to inspire the slightest bit of enraptured imagination. Instead, I was left with the feeling that while the author should get credit for creating realistic letters for her non-writerly characters to send to each other, I would have preferred it had this subpar decency not carried through the entirety of the book. When choosing between characters at a realistic level of scripting and a masterful author more concerned with writing than with believable differentiation, I will always choose the latter. I must mention that during the reading of this I was also being simultaneously bowled over by Wide Sargasso Sea , whose sharply lined prose of dripping luridness would likely have paled the majority of most novels' imagery to a fraction of their power when in solitude. This dual reading may have also contributed to the feeling of reading drag. WSS is half the length of TSC with much briefer sentences, but every word of every line of every page is steeped in meaningful craftsmanship. Compared to this, TSC comes off as both clumsy in structure and bloated in the packing peanuts rather than the dense sense of the word; the page paid per inch of insight was high with this one. In the end, it is this overarching simplicity that both failed to appeal to me as well as made me wonder at the lack of Young Adult label on this book. Granted, there are a number of references to sex and other more erotic undertakings, but never were they explicated beyond a few vague hints at the less 'obscene' body parts. 'Twas this reason that likely shoved the rating up, a false inflation in my mind that is no way accompanied by the usual increase in brutality or complexity of literature for maturer audiences. Ah well. At least it didn't win the Pulitzer. That would have sunk my evaluation of the Prize itself even lower. ...more Poignant, melancholy and slow-moving, The Snow Child probably isn't for everyone and I'll admit that it probably would have been a 3 1/2 star if I hadn't read it at such a seasonally appropriate time. With temperatures in the single digits, the wind whipping outside, and my part of the world brought to a halt by the \"wintry mix\" falling from the sky, this was the perfect book to curl up with and therefore I'm tacking on that extra half star anyway. Well past middle-age, Jack and Mabel strike out Poignant, melancholy and slow-moving, The Snow Child probably isn't for everyone and I'll admit that it probably would have been a 3 1/2 star if I hadn't read it at such a seasonally appropriate time. With temperatures in the single digits, the wind whipping outside, and my part of the world brought to a halt by the \"wintry mix\" falling from the sky, this was the perfect book to curl up with and therefore I'm tacking on that extra half star anyway. Well past middle-age, Jack and Mabel strike out on their own when they move to Alaska in the 1920's. Such an adventure would typically be a young couple's game, but Jack and Mabel are lured to the recently acquired U.S. territory in the hope that it will allow them to leave behind the one great disappointment in their lives: the stillborn child they buried in an orchard back home. Proximity to friends and family who have children of their own means that Jack and Mabel's emotional wound has never fully healed, so they purposefully break away in the hope that they will be drawn closer together and move past their grief. It's not long, however, before the long, dark Alaskan winters take their toll on the couple. Isolated in their own spheres--Jack in the fields, Mabel in the home--depression and blame begin to settle into an otherwise happy marriage. In a moment of youthful spontaneity, the couple builds a snow child one night and it's not long before they begin to see a young girl, a wild thing at home in the cold and the forest, moving through the woods and causing them to tentatively believe that maybe they've at last been granted a child of their own making. Based upon a Russian fairy tale, The Snow Child could easily be maddening to those who like definitive answers and clear resolutions. Is the young girl (whose name, we learn, is Faina) an orphaned child, a daughter born of snow and winter come to life, or a figment created from depression and longing? There are no clear answers to these questions, but I don't think they are questions that really matter because, in the end, The Snow Child is about grief and forgiveness. In her portrayal of Jack and Mabel, Ivey gives us the basic template for any marriage: no matter how strong the bond, individual grievances, both real and imagined, can build and fester. Whether or not a couple confronts these grievances determines if the marriage will fall apart or hold together. There's also complexity to the characters. At first, Mabel seems too refined and erudite for survival in the rugged wilderness, while Jack faces both the past and the future with unflinching stoicism. As we're allowed into their interior lives, however, we learn that Mabel has hidden strengths that hold her in good stead and Jack hurts far more than he's willing to admit, lest it render him unable to protect Mabel. Through their relationship with Faina, Jack and Mabel confront the painful past together and are ultimately blessed with the life they believed was well beyond their grasp. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more Is she real or is this just a fairy tale ? It didn't matter - the writing is just so amazing ! I felt the brutal cold , saw the landscape , felt the deep pain of Mabel & Jack and loved Faina . This will stay with me for a long time . \u201cWe never know what is going to happen, do we? Life is always throwing us this way and that. That\u2019s where the adventure is. Not knowing where you\u2019ll end up or how you\u2019ll fare. It\u2019s all a mystery, and when we say any different, we\u2019re just lying to ourselves. Tell me, when have you felt most alive?\u201d The Snow Child takes place somewhere around the 1920s and tells the story of Jack and Mabel, a couple in their early 50s who moved to Alaskan wilderness in an attempt to start a new life. Mabel is una \u201cWe never know what is going to happen, do we? Life is always throwing us this way and that. That\u2019s where the adventure is. Not knowing where you\u2019ll end up or how you\u2019ll fare. It\u2019s all a mystery, and when we say any different, we\u2019re just lying to ourselves. Tell me, when have you felt most alive?\u201d The Snow Child takes place somewhere around the 1920s and tells the story of Jack and Mabel, a couple in their early 50s who moved to Alaskan wilderness in an attempt to start a new life. Mabel is unable to have a child of their own after suffering a stillbirth back in Philadelphia and she feels scrutinized by their family and friends. In the dark Alaskan winter they find loneliness and a remaining abyss between them until one day they build a snowman into the shape of a girl. They place mittens and scarf around it and later they spy a girl in the forest wearing the same scarf and mittens. Who is she? Could she possibly be the actual snowgirl in human form? Is she a fairytale creature or not? The story is based on the Russian folktale of Snegurochka - a snow maiden, where a snow figure comes to life and draws her makers into its magical world. Will the book mirror the fairytale or stray into a new direction? What I liked: 1) I enjoyed the opening chapters. The book started out mysterious and magical. 2) The best aspect of this book is the setting. Descriptions of the Alaskan nature are beautiful, vivid and chilling. The setting played an important role in the loneliness and desolation experienced by Jack and Mable. It is truly a character in itself. 3) The theme of the infertility and infant death was poignant. It is an incredibly tough and very personal experience to lose a child, and no matther how much time has passed, it leaves hidden scars that surface years later in a relationship. By moving to Alaska, Mabel has simply run away from her grief, not actually deal with it and the isolation definitely isn\u2019t improving matters, the author perfectly portrayed how no one cannot run away from their problems. The book also explores very well what it means to grow older and for life to not turn out the way you planned it. What I didn't like: 1) My biggest problem with the book is that I wish the author had either gone all the way in with the magic or not alluded to it at all because throughtout the book there is a strong hint that you\u2019re reading a fairy-tale but you\u2019re never quite sure. Maybe this was intentional but I didn\u2019t like how in the beginning of the book (view spoiler) [Faina was very mysterious, then she became an ordinary human - the major plot point of the story was that Faina can\u2019t stay during spring because she will melt and leaves every winter but in the third part suddenly she didn\u2019t have problem with that. (hide spoiler) ] I think the book would have been stronger if Faina\u2019s origins weren\u2019t explained and we had been left guessing who she really is until the very end and that would have retained her mystique. 2) The book is divided into three parts, in addition to the chapters. I enjoyed the first part of the novel but somewhere near the middle, the ending became predictable because it follows the fairy-tale formula. I don\u2019t have a problem that it\u2019s not a happy ending but it\u2019s hardly believable that Faina falls for Garrett so quickly, gets pregnant, has a baby, and then disappears into the woods once again. 3) The novel is centrally focused on Jack and Mabel, their history and desire for the child that never came, and not that much on the snow girl. While we had great detail about her appearance, it is very hard to get a hold on her true being because we never had any insight into how she feels. 4) Some of the characters are two dimensional. The presence of such benevolent neighbors that were ready to help at any cost seems far too convenient. And Mabel\u2019s transformation was very quickly \u2013 from refusing to see anyone, being depressed and secretly contemplating suicide to a romantic, having nice time with her new friend, Esther. All in all , I like the premise - is the girl real or not? The concept is interesting and I wish it gives more magic and mystery as in the description of the book. The story starts out strong, the description of the landscape is very good, and the secrets of the mysterious girl kept me intrigued but then the novel loses the fairy-tale feeling. The line between reality and the chimerical is vague, with neither explored completely, the author tried too hard to stay on both sides of the fence. \u201cCan we choose our own endings, joy over sorrow? Or does the cruel world just give and take, give and take, while we flounder through the wilderness?\u201d ...more Whilst reading this, a line from the movie 'From Dusk Till Dawn' came into my head... George Clooney's character says something like \"I don't give a rat's ass about you or your f****** family. You can all live forever or die this second - I don't care which.\" Well, that pretty much sums up how I felt about the characters in this book. Once again, for me, this was yet another book devoid of conflict and tension - or any kind of plot, actually. And what plot there was, was lifted from a fairy tale. Whilst reading this, a line from the movie 'From Dusk Till Dawn' came into my head... George Clooney's character says something like \"I don't give a rat's ass about you or your f****** family. You can all live forever or die this second - I don't care which.\" Well, that pretty much sums up how I felt about the characters in this book. Once again, for me, this was yet another book devoid of conflict and tension - or any kind of plot, actually. And what plot there was, was lifted from a fairy tale. A plot within a plot? Someone page Leonardo DiCaprio! The characters were barely two dimensional - all I learned about them was that they wanted a child, and they ate a lot of dead stuff. Oh, and there was a lot of snow. I found my attention wandering as I read - and when I snapped back into reality following yet another Skarsgard reverie, I found I had missed nothing. Except snow, and longing for a child (the characters, not me). And more dead stuff. In fact, by the end I was having twenty-page long reveries about Skarsgard, and still missed nothing. For me, the only thing I enjoyed about this book was that it was over quickly. And the reveries. ...more Evokes a strong sense of place...the frigid and unforgiving Alaskan landscape. Charming and magical story. I'm not a fan of fantasy novels so I was surprised at just how much I loved this book. All the characters were well developed, likable and their relationships with each other were tender and loving. I especially enjoyed Esther, their salty but lovable \"Ma Kettle\" like neighbor. She provided lively, laugh out loud moments in an otherwise gentle and restrained fairy tale. On the cover is an adorable little blond girl out in the snow peaking out from behind\u00a0 a tree.\u00a0 This image stuck with me every time she was mentioned in the book.\u00a0 Fantasies are usually not my thing at all, but I loved this little girl and the sweet, childless couple she graced.\u00a0 Where did she come from and where did she go each time she disappeared?\u00a0 The writing was so beautiful and flawless, I could picture every scene.\u00a0\u00a0 A lovely story apropos to this frigid January. ***NO SPOILERS*** Eowyn Ivey\u2019s dreamy tale is very difficult to describe in a way that will do it justice; it\u2019s truly as unique, as, well, a snowflake. One good description for it is a single word: atmospheric, but maybe the best place to start is simply to discuss its genre; this is \u201cmagical realism,\u201d the integration of magical elements in a realistic setting. The Snow Child is a great choice for readers who dislike fantasy and also those who dislike straight-up realistic fiction or literary fic ***NO SPOILERS*** Eowyn Ivey\u2019s dreamy tale is very difficult to describe in a way that will do it justice; it\u2019s truly as unique, as, well, a snowflake. One good description for it is a single word: atmospheric, but maybe the best place to start is simply to discuss its genre; this is \u201cmagical realism,\u201d the integration of magical elements in a realistic setting. The Snow Child is a great choice for readers who dislike fantasy and also those who dislike straight-up realistic fiction or literary fiction. Ivey\u2019s blending of the magical and realistic is enviably perfect; she interwove the magical elements so seamlessly that it seems completely reasonable that a snow girl could come to life, hunt in the woods daily with a pet fox, and become a surrogate daughter to an older childless couple. Ivey was inspired by a Russian folk legend called \u201cSnegurochka,\u201d but The Snow Child is very much her own. The titular snow child--Faina--is easily the most fascinating of all the characters and what keeps suspense very high from beginning to end. She\u2019s sprightly, extremely mysterious, elusive--and exhibits some magical powers. More than once, a main character refers to her as a \u201csprite,\u201d and this is fitting. Each sighting is an event that\u2019s just as exciting for the reader as it is for the couple who fashioned her one snowy night on a whim, and impressively, even as Faina lets down her guard and shares more about herself, she remains perplexing to the end; in so many ways she seems so human, yet in other ways, she doesn\u2019t. The suspense never once wanes. The realistic element to the story will have readers reaching for an extra sweater and turning on a space heater. Ivey\u2019s snowy setting is astonishingly well crafted. The Alaskan winter shows no mercy. The story is replete with descriptions of biting, howling wind; log-cabin windows frosted over from the inside; regular trudging through high, heavy snow; the numbness of nose and ears. Ivey spares no details when it comes to the grim reality of homesteading life in Alaska. The people regularly hunt--everything from moose to lynx--and these depictions are raw and real. Wood must constantly be chopped, long fields ploughed and planted during a short window of time when the ground is finally pliable enough. Creature comforts are few, and exhausting chores are neverending. As the story continues, however, it quickly becomes clear that Faina herself isn\u2019t all that\u2019s magical. Where she is, there\u2019s magic in the very snowfalls that make homesteading life so much more laborious. Here, Ivey somehow made a gloomy season wondrous and enchanting. There\u2019s a supernatural quality to the portrayal, as if this lonely Alaskan wilderness of the 1920s is an unreachable, mystical place, where of course a being such as a snow child could exist. It\u2019s all one big icy dream where snow is a feathery powder to frolic in, skip across, and seek out. Ivey created such a strange but brilliant juxtaposition: the realistic element of a brutal winter and the magical element of a peaceful, snow-globe winter, playing a kind of tug-of-war. The Snow Child was a Pulitzer Prize nominee in 2013. Possibly the only thing holding it back from winning the prize was Ivey\u2019s prose. She was a newspaper reporter for ten years, and it shows; her style is very direct and unfortunately, mundane. Her writing could use a healthy dose of artistry, and a clich\u00e9d phrase or two (e.g.,\u201cslipped through her fingers like water...\u201d) should have been nixed before the book\u2019s final printing. Ivey\u2019s story itself is so lovely that it seems to beg for a more elevated, poetic type of prose to match; nevertheless, the story itself is too magnificent to be spoiled by less-than-impressive writing. The Snow Child will leave readers awe-struck. Final verdict: A unique, un-put-downable story suitable for a variety of readers. Readers new to magical realism in particular won\u2019t regret starting with this one. ...more 5 out of 5 stars without doubt! I'm so happy I read this book during Christmas and while it was snowing outside, because if there's one book that is suited for winter, this is the one! From the very first pages, I could feel the cold of the snow and the bleak mood of the winter which was portrayed in the book, and even though the story started out depressing I loved it! Mabel and Jack were some of the best main characters I've read about for a long time. Their marriage and their relationship and 5 out of 5 stars without doubt! I'm so happy I read this book during Christmas and while it was snowing outside, because if there's one book that is suited for winter, this is the one! From the very first pages, I could feel the cold of the snow and the bleak mood of the winter which was portrayed in the book, and even though the story started out depressing I loved it! Mabel and Jack were some of the best main characters I've read about for a long time. Their marriage and their relationship and habits were the best and I quickly fell in love head over heels with both of them. Luckily, we get this story from both their perspectives and I read about them and their stubborn personalities with a smile on my face. The story grows even more beautiful with each chapter, and one of the best things was how everything wrapped up. Eowyn Ivey does it so beautifully and leaves you with a magic tale about love, loss, despair and happiness. READ IT READ IT READ IT! :) ...more Achingly beautiful. How is it that someone who struggles with fantasy and more so with sci-fi can embrace fairy-tales so willingly? There may be a fine line between the two but the best way I have seen the differences described is that fairy-tales are handed down stories, folklore, and that fantasy is the product of one person's imagination. Regardless of where you put The Snow Child in genre, it is magical. It's a hard book to talk about without spoiling the whole for the next reader. The author, Achingly beautiful. How is it that someone who struggles with fantasy and more so with sci-fi can embrace fairy-tales so willingly? There may be a fine line between the two but the best way I have seen the differences described is that fairy-tales are handed down stories, folklore, and that fantasy is the product of one person's imagination. Regardless of where you put The Snow Child in genre, it is magical. It's a hard book to talk about without spoiling the whole for the next reader. The author, Eowyn Ivy, states that it is based on a Russian tale, Snegurochka, or The Snow Maiden, about an older couple unable to have children of their own and are saddened by this. One day they build a snow child, a little girl who comes to life. And there you have the premise of The Snow Child which takes place in 1920's wilderness Alaska. The childless couple, Mabel and Jack, find themselves in Alaska when the happiness of family and laughter of children, which Mabel describes as noise, becomes to much for her. You might describe this as running away. Mabel soon finds out that the harsh realities of life in Alaska may be worse then what she has left behind in Pennsylvania. Farming the land is hard, supplies are hard to get, they know little of how to exist in this foreign place yet there is a determination to do so. Add to this the long light of short summers and the dreary darkness, cold and snow of long winters and you can feel their despair. At the first snow, Mabel surprises Jack with lost playfulness when she starts a snow ball fight. This scene turns out to be one of the best in the book for me. The rest of the fairy-tale is there but best to read for yourself. For a wonderful interview with the author take a listen on The Readers Episode 22. It gives solid background to the story but might be better to hear after you've read the book as it does give tidbits away. I've never liked the cold or tons of snow but through Ivey's eyes, she has challenged me to see what she loves about her life and home in Alaska. A fairy-tale for adults, The Snow Child is subtle, thought-provoking and delightful storytelling. ...more Mabel and Jack, a childless couple in their fifties, have decided to try homesteading in Alaska in 1920. The harsh realities and loneliness of life there are taking their toll, as is Mabel's grief at having failed to give her husband children. As the story opens, she is contemplating suicide. But on the night of the first snowfall, their spirits lift as they enjoy playing in the snow together, creating a little girl out of snow, complete with mittens, scarf and facial features carved into the sn Mabel and Jack, a childless couple in their fifties, have decided to try homesteading in Alaska in 1920. The harsh realities and loneliness of life there are taking their toll, as is Mabel's grief at having failed to give her husband children. As the story opens, she is contemplating suicide. But on the night of the first snowfall, their spirits lift as they enjoy playing in the snow together, creating a little girl out of snow, complete with mittens, scarf and facial features carved into the snow. The next morning, the snow-girl is gone but they see a single line of tracks leading away into the woods. Soon they both catch glimpses of a little girl and her fox companion. Mabel remembers an old Russian folk tale about a snow-girl coming to life that her father read to her as a child--is that what is happening here? Or is this a feral child, somehow surviving on her own in the wild? An interesting blend of magical-realism with wildlife adventure story, a tale of friendship, love and survival set in a harsh but beautiful land. A very good read. ...more", "Title": "The Snow Child"},
