{"Comments": "don't read this in public..<---F>especially if you're by yourself</---F>... this book has been on my wishlist for years (<---B>apparently it was earning rave reviews from readers online</---B>) and yet everytime i come across this at bookstores i'd tell myself to postpone buying it since it had many copies on shelf. i never even bothered leafing through it. but one day i just decided to actually read its back cover and see what all the hoopla's about. and then i saw the line, \" Secrets she wouldn't share with anyone in the don't read this in public..especially if you're by yourself... this book has been on my wishlist for years (apparently it was earning rave reviews from readers online) and yet everytime i come across this at bookstores i'd tell myself to postpone buying it since it had many copies on shelf. i never even bothered leafing through it. but one day i just decided to actually read its back cover and see what all the hoopla's about. and then i saw the line, \" Secrets she wouldn't share with anyone in the world: I have no idea what NATO stands for. Or even what it is. \" and honest to god, i just grinned like an idiot. i had to read it. i actually went to a nearby cafe right after buying this from the store just so that i could begin. which turned out to be a bad idea cos it was literally difficult to keep a straight face once i read the first few chapters. you ever had that experience when something is really really funny but you can't laugh outright or even smile cos people around you will start getting wary? this book is deadly. you have to read it on some secluded (preferably enclosed [okay make it enclosed and sound-proof]) place so you can laugh without being hampered. this book may even be funnier than her shopaholic series. there's just something so natural and so human about the insecurities and then the delusions of Emma. and though this might be a comic story first, this was a very cheeky romantic romp for me. and is it just me or was Jack sexy?? i just wanted to skip on the next scene where he'll appear--i can't wait what next secret he'll be dangling for Emma to squirm over. it's not even your run-of-the-mill chick-lit cos there were some parts that became serious they were heartbreaking. all in all,<---M> this is a highly recommended</---M>, feel good story. you'll never want to put it down (even when you know that someone soon will approach you and politely ask you to leave their premises cos you're scaring some people...) ...more This was so funny and cute! It didn't blow me away, but I was in the mood for a rom-com style read and that's exactly what this was! Definitely looking forward to reading more <---A>Sophie Kinsella</---A> when I need something lighthearted and fun. So...I really wanted to dislike this book. I was determined not to allow myself to be one of \"those girls.\" You know...the ones who plan ladies night out to watch Sex and the City . I've never had a desire to read Bridget Jones' Diary or The Devil Wears Prada (although I do hate to admit that I actually liked Devil as a movie) I mean, it's Chick Lit . Fluff without the smut. What fun is that? Turns out, it's more fun than I was expecting. The book started out in such a way that I was expecting to g So...I really wanted to dislike this book. I was determined not to allow myself to be one of \"those girls.\" You know...the ones who plan ladies night out to watch Sex and the City . I've never had a desire to read Bridget Jones' Diary or The Devil Wears Prada (although I do hate to admit that I actually liked Devil as a movie) I mean, it's Chick Lit . Fluff without the smut. What fun is that? Turns out, it's more fun than I was expecting. The book started out in such a way that I was expecting to give up before making it past a few chapters. I practically sighed with exasperation over the flighty, bumbling, office girl who embarrasses herself in front of her boss without knowing who he is. The thoughts in my head were practically burning a hole in the Nook. No, I don't care about what crappy fashion you're wearing to the office. No, I don't care that you're really a size 12 but tell people you're an 8. No, I don't care that you have a lame ass boyfriend who listens to jazz and likes bad movies. Just as I was about to hit \"delete\" and ditch the book from my ereader, something happened. I started laughing. A LOT. Not the polite little giggly \"oh that's cute\" type of laughter. The snorting, choking, oh-my-god I'm dying laughter. My husband even looked up from his zombie like trance mid-video-game to give me a wtf? look. It took several chapters for me to warm up to the book and truth be told, if I hadn't promised myself that I wanted to finish at least one chick lit book just to say that I had given the genre a shot, I would have quit out before getting to the part where it started to get good. Once I got past the mediocre parts revolving around the main character's office and family life, and got into the part where she was spending most of her time trying to figure out how to make a relationship with her boss work, I was along for the ride. It was quite the fun ride, too. I was pleasantly surprised. Will I continue to read chick lit after this? Hmmm...I don't know. This book was fun and I'm completely glad that I read it, but I still am not fond of the office girl/modern day girl formula that seems to be pretty big in this genre. Even with as funny as this book was, I've browsed some reviews for the author's books and it looks like she tends to stick with a similar subject matter for most of her books. ...more Goal : Read a light book and laugh my ass off. Result : Read a stupid book that made me want to cut it into little pieces. Overall Goal : Happiness. Overall Result : A sh*tty headache. All my friends gave Can You Keep A Secret? a high score, all of them loved it, all of them asked me to read it. So I did. Yep. And I ended up having a headache. Literally. Mrs. Kinsella you owe me a pack of meds and a nice foot massage. So why did all my friends love this book and I didn\u2019t? I have no idea, to tell you the tr Goal : Read a light book and laugh my ass off. Result : Read a stupid book that made me want to cut it into little pieces. Overall Goal : Happiness. Overall Result : A sh*tty headache. All my friends gave Can You Keep A Secret? a high score, all of them loved it, all of them asked me to read it. So I did. Yep. And I ended up having a headache. Literally. Mrs. Kinsella you owe me a pack of meds and a nice foot massage. So why did all my friends love this book and I didn\u2019t? I have no idea, to tell you the truth. I just know this: Emma is an idiot. A shallow clownish stupid boring insecure clueless loser. She\u2019s the reason why I hated the book. \u201d'Please promote me,' I say desperately. 'Please. I have to get a promotion to impress my family. It's the only thing I want in the whole world, and I'll work so hard, I promise, I'll come in at weekends, and I'll \u2026 I'll wear smart suits.\u201d Facepalm compilation in 3 2 1 And btw, wtf is this Panther Cola crap? Is it cola that panthers drink or cola made out of panthers? ...more Two point five-ish stars ^^ Quirky, hilarious read about a 25 year old clumsy, silly, awkward Emma who is always caught in the most embarrassing situations and thinking she\u2019s probably not yet embarrassed enough, spewed out every single one of her deepest, darkest most embarrassing secrets to a stranger on a plane when she thought they were going to die during a violent turbulence. The horrific result: strange man isn\u2019t a stranger after all. LMAO! While I wasn\u2019t a fan of Emma (and of any other cha Two point five-ish stars ^^ Quirky, hilarious read about a 25 year old clumsy, silly, awkward Emma who is always caught in the most embarrassing situations and thinking she\u2019s probably not yet embarrassed enough, spewed out every single one of her deepest, darkest most embarrassing secrets to a stranger on a plane when she thought they were going to die during a violent turbulence. The horrific result: strange man isn\u2019t a stranger after all. LMAO! While I wasn\u2019t a fan of Emma (and of any other character in the story for that matter) and thought she was awful and ridiculous with every single decision she made (She says it\u2019s good when it\u2019s bad, okay when it\u2019s not, yes when she means no, in short she lies all the time), the hilarity of her story and predictability of the more than slightly rubbish plot are entertaining. It\u2019s my first Sophie Kinsella read and although it wasn\u2019t completely successful, I have a feeling I\u2019ll enjoy her YA novel, Finding Audrey more. Here\u2019s my lovely friend\u2019s, Alice\u2019s review of said YA book.^^ Happy birthday, my Dear Alice. Despite the few stars, I enjoyed the read so it\u2019s all good. I\u2019ll certainly give Ms. Kinsella another chance. I hope you\u2019re having the time of your life on your very special day. Love you, girl! <3 ...more This was such a fun and entertaining book! I laughed out loud multiple times and I also cringed several times because of how embarrassed I was for Emma. My only problem with this book is that I felt like it could have been longer! It felt rushed at times and I wished there was more of an ending. I wanted to know how it all came together and like, for example, how Kerry was doing (terribly, I hope). Nevertheless, I really enjoyed reading this book and I can't wait to read more of her novels in the This was such a fun and entertaining book! I laughed out loud multiple times and I also cringed several times because of how embarrassed I was for Emma. My only problem with this book is that I felt like it could have been longer! It felt rushed at times and I wished there was more of an ending. I wanted to know how it all came together and like, for example, how Kerry was doing (terribly, I hope). Nevertheless, I really enjoyed reading this book and I can't wait to read more of her novels in the future! ...more Gosh, this books was so much fun!!! Often times when I\u2019m told a book is funny, I usually find that it turns out being more painful to read than anything. But damn, is Sophie Kinsella hilarious! Can You Keep a Secret follows the charismatic tale of Emma Corrigan. This woman is a hoot, let me tell you. She\u2019s hilariously paranoid and completely outrageous. She is the \u201cordinary, nothing-special sort of girl\u201d but oh, does she have her secrets. Secrets that she probably shouldn\u2019t have blurted out Gosh, this books was so much fun!!! Often times when I\u2019m told a book is funny, I usually find that it turns out being more painful to read than anything. But damn, is Sophie Kinsella hilarious! Can You Keep a Secret follows the charismatic tale of Emma Corrigan. This woman is a hoot, let me tell you. She\u2019s hilariously paranoid and completely outrageous. She is the \u201cordinary, nothing-special sort of girl\u201d but oh, does she have her secrets. Secrets that she probably shouldn\u2019t have blurted out while clutching onto the arm of a strange during a rocky flight. But, oh well, can\u2019t do anything about that now, can we? \u201cOh God. I'm losing it. Everyone knows this is how criminals get caught. They add too many details and trip themselves up.\u201d ^^That\u2019s basically Emma\u2019s entire existence. So this book was adorable and sweet and really really charming in a lot of ways. It was such an easy read and really brought on that little bits of glee that usually accompany a great book. Oh, and I really love Jack!! What a little darling. But there were parts of the book that I found excessive. For example the fact that Emma seemed to face problem after problem after problem. It\u2019s not a HUGE deal but I just found it tiring because here we are, smiling and happy for a single sentence and then BAM, another problem takes place. Kinda excessive if ya ask me. :p Anywho. . . I was never a huge fan of chick-lit but after reading this one, I\u2019m definitely not done with this genre or this author! \u201cI've always had this deep-down conviction that I'm not like everybody else, and there's an amazingly exciting new life waiting for me just around the corner.\u201d 3.5 stars!! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Need cute and fluffy and I need to binge read Sophie Kinsella , so, here I gooooooooooo!!! ...more \u201cCan You Keep A Secret?\u201d Are you serious?!!??!? NO! I\u2019m gonna spill all your secrets to my friends, Emma. You cannot trust me on this! I\u2019m a bitch, I know. hahaha 1st secret: Guys.. this clumsy lady, Emma Corrigan is so damn lucky! She not that have much money, but she met an sweet-angel air-hostess so this sweetie air-hostess invite Emma to sit on the plane in Business class!!! She cheat!!! Without anyone else know! so she pretends to be businesswoman. See what she did! BUT HAHAHAHAAAAAAA\u2026. 2rd se \u201cCan You Keep A Secret?\u201d Are you serious?!!??!? NO! I\u2019m gonna spill all your secrets to my friends, Emma. You cannot trust me on this! I\u2019m a bitch, I know. hahaha 1st secret: Guys.. this clumsy lady, Emma Corrigan is so damn lucky! She not that have much money, but she met an sweet-angel air-hostess so this sweetie air-hostess invite Emma to sit on the plane in Business class!!! She cheat!!! Without anyone else know! so she pretends to be businesswoman. See what she did! BUT HAHAHAHAAAAAAA\u2026. 2rd secret: The plane got turbulence so she thinks she gonna die!!! There is guy sit next to her.. She hold his hand tightly Oops and spill all her secrets blah blah blah.. to that guy like a naked girl. O.O It became she not die! OKay her life is go on.. One day, she go to work.. Someone BIG visit her work place.. OMG Is that guy??? Yess the guy she unintentionally spill all her ( top ) secrets to is her CEO. \u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026.. This book is funny! This Emma Corrigan kinda reminds me of Meg Cabot\u2019s heroine, Idk. Hahaha She is clumsy, whinny, and funny that made me laugh so hard until having face palms for her. Whatever, this like a modern fairy-tale! An ordinary girl is interested by a handsome wealthy dreamy man. That\u2019s why Kinsella\u2019 story kinda my cuppa tea, I think. Nahh\u2026 I just want something like this happen real to my life! Why it has to be only in fiction? *sobs* Not just it\u2019s funny, there is drama, too. Sometimes secrets are shameful, right? That\u2019s why we all have secrets to keep. Anytime Emma\u2019s secrets reveal, I laugh so hard! ( My dad even say \"Pang gone crazy!\" *damn* ) But sometimes the situation made me hurt, too. I can feel how hurt and embarrassed she is. Like.. I don\u2019t want it happen to me, too. Not just Emma, but also Jack ( our hero ) who is so mysterious with something he not gonna tell anyone.. I will let you know by yourself! Xoxo Pang. ...more OMG, this book is laugh out loud funny, like sitting in my cubicle at work just giggling to myself. In the days, I spent reading this one I told numerous people about it because I was just so excited and happy to find a book that made me actual loud out loud. Some of my best friends raved about this book during our girls weekend last year and I was repeatedly told, you have to read this! Emma Corrigan is a typical girl, just like us or me at least. She is awkward, inappropriate and just trying to OMG, this book is laugh out loud funny, like sitting in my cubicle at work just giggling to myself. In the days, I spent reading this one I told numerous people about it because I was just so excited and happy to find a book that made me actual loud out loud. Some of my best friends raved about this book during our girls weekend last year and I was repeatedly told, you have to read this! Emma Corrigan is a typical girl, just like us or me at least. She is awkward, inappropriate and just trying to prove herself. Emma is flying back from a business trip, that of course went horribly bad. During the flight, there is some extreme turbulence and she thinks she is going to die. During her freak out she precedes to unload all her secrets on everyone around her. Monday morning comes with a big surprise, one of the passengers is the owner of Emma\u2019s company and he remember everything. All her secrets are out, some as small as hating g-strings and the coffee at work, to her insecurities with her family and lesbian dream she had about her best friend. This story is so freaking perfect. It\u2019s so funny, it's freaking cute as shit and the love stories is so sweet. This is my first book by Sophie Kinsella, but it will not be my last. The audiobook is absolutely fantastic and made me believe the narrator was Emma. Teaser created by me with stock images purchased from depositphotos. ...more Rating Breakdown: Enjoyment - 5 stars Story - 3 stars Emma - 3.5 stars Jack - 2 stars Side characters - 5 stars Ending - 2.5 stars The average is 3.5 stars, but since enjoyment is my number one reason for reading in the first place, I'll round it up to 4 stars. This book is, hands-down, the funniest book I've ever read. I laughed so hard, I had tears in my eyes and cramps in my tummy throughout. This book should come with a warning label, something like, <+++>Can You Keep a Secret?</+++>... AKA The Sole Cause of Rating Breakdown: Enjoyment - 5 stars Story - 3 stars Emma - 3.5 stars Jack - 2 stars Side characters - 5 stars Ending - 2.5 stars The average is 3.5 stars, but since enjoyment is my number one reason for reading in the first place, I'll round it up to 4 stars. This book is, hands-down, the funniest book I've ever read. I laughed so hard, I had tears in my eyes and cramps in my tummy throughout. This book should come with a warning label, something like, <+++>Can You Keep a Secret?</+++>... AKA The Sole Cause of Death by Laughter World-Wide! It's nearly impossible to hate a book after it makes you feel so warm and fuzzy inside. Most of this book is solid 5-star material. There's humor, romance, lesbian fantasies, drama, and good decision-making, along with some of the most outrageously hilarious characters ever to be created (yes, I mean you, Jemima). Unfortunately, the ending sorely lacks closure, and is the main reason why I didn't give this a higher rating. All my other problems mainly stem from this one issue. The ending left me entirely unsatisfied and highly doubtful about the future of Emma and Jack, as a couple and otherwise. Basically, it didn't feel like an ending. It was rushed and anti-climactic, in addition to being slightly unrealistic. It would have been the perfect ending had this been a series, but since it's a stand-alone novel, I got the distinct impression that there were still several chapters left, and they were simply missing from the version of the book I read. Not the greatest feeling to have after finishing a book, to be sure. Emma is a lot better at confrontations and standing up for herself than the other two heroines of Kinsella's I've read, namely Poppy from I've Got Your Number: A Novel and Lexi from Remember Me? I'm sure most female readers can relate to her in one aspect or the other. I really loved Jack too, until he (view spoiler) [betrayed Emma (hide spoiler) ] . I never truly accepted his excuse, nor did I entirely forgive him for it. After everything that happened between Emma and Jack, especially the whole deal with their respective secrets, I would have really liked to see more of them as a couple, to genuinely believe they had anything lasting going on. These are two individuals from vastly different backgrounds, and let's face it: the man's a multimillionaire, and the girl's his employee. In real life, these kind of relationships hardly ever work out, and I would have liked Kinsella to prove me wrong by actually showing Emma and Jack in a stable relationship, one where they both learn to talk their problems out instead of jumping to conclusions. We never really get to know Jack as someone besides \"Jack Harper, the man who founded the Panther Corporation\", and the trust between Emma and him seems too delicate and fragile for anything but a temporary affair. I guess I was simply expecting more from this book, and while it was one of the best light reads I've read in a while, that annoying feeling I got, the one where I really don't feel the ending did justice to the story, sort of ruined it for me. That aside, this is truly a fantastic book, one of the rare ones I'll certainly be re-reading in the years to come. THANK YOU to everyone who urged me to read this book ASAP! I am forever indebted to you. \u2665\u2665\u2665 For more reviews, visit my blog . ...more I have a stack of Sophie Kinsella books I'm working my way through, which might be the greatest choice I've made so far this year. This read like a rom com screenplay and was HILARIOUS. I skimmed Confessions of a Shopaholic a few years ago before I saw the movie but I'm probably going to go back and read it now because the characters in this book had such real voices. Like I might not have the same personality as Emma, but I could still relate to her just because she was so entertaining and lika I have a stack of Sophie Kinsella books I'm working my way through, which might be the greatest choice I've made so far this year. This read like a rom com screenplay and was HILARIOUS. I skimmed Confessions of a Shopaholic a few years ago before I saw the movie but I'm probably going to go back and read it now because the characters in this book had such real voices. Like I might not have the same personality as Emma, but I could still relate to her just because she was so entertaining and likable. Basically, Emma drinks a bit too much on a flight with turbulence and ends up spilling all of her secrets in a panicked rush to the guy sitting next to her... and it's like EVERYTHING. Her entire life story + every embarrassing detail. So she goes back to her boring boyfriend and normal life, but then that guy shows up at her work. Turns out he owns her company and is some multi-billionaire. The story's predictable and a bit on the simple side, but gets really funny. The side characters like Emma's roommates and embarrassing family made it so much better, too. So I don't care how formulaic this was because it was so much fun! I'd probably give it 4.5 stars?? I loved it but I'm not like SUPER enthusiastic about it to the point where I'd shove it at everyone I see... unless it becomes a movie. Then I totally would. ...more My first - and almost certainly last - foray into chick lit. Very shallow, contrived and implausible, albeit in a self-conscious (\"ironic\"?) way. Although the \"plot\" may excuse the improbable co-incidences, there is no justification for the ludicrously artificial dialogue. I find all the \"poor fluffy little me struggling to bluff it in the big bad grown up world\" nauseating. Not as funny as it thinks because the humour, such as it is, is entirely reliant on very cliched stereotypes. If it were w My first - and almost certainly last - foray into chick lit. Very shallow, contrived and implausible, albeit in a self-conscious (\"ironic\"?) way. Although the \"plot\" may excuse the improbable co-incidences, there is no justification for the ludicrously artificial dialogue. I find all the \"poor fluffy little me struggling to bluff it in the big bad grown up world\" nauseating. Not as funny as it thinks because the humour, such as it is, is entirely reliant on very cliched stereotypes. If it were written by a man, people would be outraged at how sexist it is. Even if Kinsella was once ahead of the game by writing in this way, its startling unoriginality is just another annoyance. I expected a juice bar/coffee shop rather than Heston Blumenthal's molecular gastronomy, but I ended up with soggy fluorescent candy floss. ...more This was really cute and funny! A great lighthearted read. Review to come! I swear the moment I was done with this book...I was just so..soo.. SO DAMN FRUSTRATED The ending seemed so...lacking? Disappointing? Hell ! Fr the first time,in my history of reading books.I actually ended up hating the hero Jack, (view spoiler) [(who spilled all her secrets on NATIONAL TELEVISION ), (hide spoiler) ] instead of the heroine,along with her cousin Kerry (who basically STOLE THE HEROINE'S ENTIRE CHILDHOOD) and her fashion/mommy obsessed roommate Jemima (who basically spent the whole b I swear the moment I was done with this book...I was just so..soo.. SO DAMN FRUSTRATED The ending seemed so...lacking? Disappointing? Hell ! Fr the first time,in my history of reading books.I actually ended up hating the hero Jack, (view spoiler) [(who spilled all her secrets on NATIONAL TELEVISION ), (hide spoiler) ] instead of the heroine,along with her cousin Kerry (who basically STOLE THE HEROINE'S ENTIRE CHILDHOOD) and her fashion/mommy obsessed roommate Jemima (who basically spent the whole book determined to expose jack's supposedly BIG SECRET )... I'm mean seriously you guys, I wish I could say I loved this as much as I enjoyed this author's I've Got Your Number but sadly this didn't even score half of it's rating... DISSAPOINTMENT :( [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more First of all thank you, Jasprit, for insisting I read this one. A couple of days ago I was sick and in bed all day. I had just finished another book and was wondering which book to start next. I saw this on my Nook and remembered you said it's her best book. This book really made me feel better when I was under the weather. Emma is 25 and has been through many jobs. She has had a job in marketing for over a year now, and although she does okay, she's not exactly moving up the corporate ladder. Sh First of all thank you, Jasprit, for insisting I read this one. A couple of days ago I was sick and in bed all day. I had just finished another book and was wondering which book to start next. I saw this on my Nook and remembered you said it's her best book. This book really made me feel better when I was under the weather. Emma is 25 and has been through many jobs. She has had a job in marketing for over a year now, and although she does okay, she's not exactly moving up the corporate ladder. She lives with her bff Lissy and has a boyfriend that she thinks is almost too cute and perfect. One day on a terrifying plane crash she turns to the man next to her and starts blabbering every random secret she has to the stranger next to her. She tells him everything including several things that could get her in trouble at work. A few days later when this stranger walks in her workplace and she's made aware that he is the founder of her company she is mortified. Can he keep her secrets? I've gotten to the point where I feel like if you have reviewed one Sophie Kinsella book you have reviewed them all. The same things always apply. Laugh out loud humor, a loveable but usually quite clueless heroine, some barely there romance, and a picture perfect ending. They also usually include a subtle message from which the character learns something important about life. The fact that you know what you're getting when you go into one of her books can be a good thing or a bad thing. For me I like it. I know what to expect and she never lets me down. Note: I have read a few of her singles, but still haven't gotten to the Shopaholic series, so don't hold me to that. My only complaint and reason for giving this 4 stars instead of 5 is because of the predictability. See how I said it could go both ways? I like knowing what to expect, but I would also like a bit of surprise with the ending. This one had a formula that seemed so similar to \"I've got Your Number\" in regards to the boyfriend factor. Why bother giving the heroines a boyfriend at the start of the book? We always know how that's going to end. I know Sophie Kinsella has it in her to write something more original and unique for the chick-lit genre and when she does that's when I will give her my 5 stars. Fans of Kinsella will not be disappointed with this one, and I agree with Jasprit. This is her best that I've read so far. ...more This book was hilarious. The basic idea is, imagine what would happen if in a moment of panic you were to spill all your darkest secrets to a perfect stranger and of course that stranger was extremely attractive and turned out to be a new big shot at your company, genius uh? When Emma spills it all out it makes you want to cover your eyes with your hands and tell her: The fun, as always with Kinsella standalone novels, is guaranteed and the romance is just witty and cute. (view spoiler) [ The cousi This book was hilarious. The basic idea is, imagine what would happen if in a moment of panic you were to spill all your darkest secrets to a perfect stranger and of course that stranger was extremely attractive and turned out to be a new big shot at your company, genius uh? When Emma spills it all out it makes you want to cover your eyes with your hands and tell her: The fun, as always with Kinsella standalone novels, is guaranteed and the romance is just witty and cute. (view spoiler) [ The cousin was so bad!!! In the final retribution moment I was yeah! I actually pictured myself kicking her in the derriere a couple of times!! (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Worst book I have read in a LONG, long time. Seriously, How could so many of you like this book? Now I remember why I hate chick-lit so much. After having read and adored Something Borrowed and Something Blue I thought I wasn't giving enough credit to this genre, I thought there were some good books on it out there. Because of this, I went to a list with the best chick-lit books and added them to my TBR pile. This is the first one I try and I completely abhorred it. I found this read and most of Worst book I have read in a LONG, long time. Seriously, How could so many of you like this book? Now I remember why I hate chick-lit so much. After having read and adored Something Borrowed and Something Blue I thought I wasn't giving enough credit to this genre, I thought there were some good books on it out there. Because of this, I went to a list with the best chick-lit books and added them to my TBR pile. This is the first one I try and I completely abhorred it. I found this read and most of the characters absolutely shallow. The only character I did like was the Hero and we never really get to know him. The rest of the characters are vain, arrogant and egocentric. Book's most discussed topics: Shoes, bags and celebrities. OMG, I just can't believe there are so many books discussing these things. And I can't understand how someone can enjoy this type of reads. Seriously, if what you are looking for are funny, quick and entreating reads, you must search for contemporary romance. Just don't read more books in this genre... they can't be good for people's IQ. I just know there must be better books on this genre because those 2 I mentioned at the beginning of this review were great and I enjoyed them big time... I was expecting much more of everything form this book. I can't think of a thing I liked about it. I'll try another book of this author because I just can't believe everybody likes her so much and I enjoyed this book so little, maybe it was just the topic. ...more 3.5 stars Alright, I've been reading romance novels off late. It's one of those phases. And this is one of my favourites. Did Emma get on my nerves by whining too much? Sure. Was Jack way, way out of her league? Sure. But thing is, this woman knows how to pen chick-lit. She gets you right in the feelers and doesn't let go until you're sucked dry. Emma, who I'm sure suffers from some form of anxiety, spills all her secrets to the gorgeous American sitting next to her. What transpires next is a ser 3.5 stars Alright, I've been reading romance novels off late. It's one of those phases. And this is one of my favourites. Did Emma get on my nerves by whining too much? Sure. Was Jack way, way out of her league? Sure. But thing is, this woman knows how to pen chick-lit. She gets you right in the feelers and doesn't let go until you're sucked dry. Emma, who I'm sure suffers from some form of anxiety, spills all her secrets to the gorgeous American sitting next to her. What transpires next is a series of misadventures as she finds out he's none other than her boss. Like the boss man, boss; he owns the company she works for. Emma is your run of the mill, regular, working class girl. She takes the bus and hates her colleagues. She's a chronic underachiever, all thanks to her cousin Kerry. She loves her gramps, and is in one of those relationships. She has a best friend, she has a frenemy. And she has secrets. Lots of them. Jack on the other hand, oh Jack. He's smart, hot, and a little bit of an asshole. He kinda wears his heart on his sleeve, and fucks up majorly. But yeah, like every chick-lit books, they beat the odds together. Still, you know, this makes for a pleasing read. ...more 2.5 stars \"it was ok\" is seriously such an accurate description of this book. good job, description-that-hovers-over-the-2-star-rating! emma, our main character, is monumentally irritating. she compulsively lies about things that she shouldn't have to lie about, and is so horrendously unprofessional in her workplace, it's a wonder that she's maintained her job for as long as she has. and yet, somehow, she's an interesting and genuine person in the eyes of a multimillionaire. ok. i think there's a 2.5 stars \"it was ok\" is seriously such an accurate description of this book. good job, description-that-hovers-over-the-2-star-rating! emma, our main character, is monumentally irritating. she compulsively lies about things that she shouldn't have to lie about, and is so horrendously unprofessional in her workplace, it's a wonder that she's maintained her job for as long as she has. and yet, somehow, she's an interesting and genuine person in the eyes of a multimillionaire. ok. i think there's a marked improvement in the book's storytelling and humor past the halfway mark, which is quite a commitment tbh. but there are a few lines where i laughed out loud. it takes a while for the humor to be funny, but when it gets there, it's great. ...more Emma doesn't like airplanes. In fact, she's terrified of them. One day she's on a flight when the airplane hits turbulance. Emma being Emma freaks out and begins to babble, thinking it was her last moment of life, she spilled all of her secrets to the stranger next to her. Her darkest secrets. Her deepest fears. Her most intimate thoughts. But it's not such a big deal, because she's never going to see him again, right?? LOL!!! It was a fun book for the most part. There were times when I was annoyed with Emma doesn't like airplanes. In fact, she's terrified of them. One day she's on a flight when the airplane hits turbulance. Emma being Emma freaks out and begins to babble, thinking it was her last moment of life, she spilled all of her secrets to the stranger next to her. Her darkest secrets. Her deepest fears. Her most intimate thoughts. But it's not such a big deal, because she's never going to see him again, right?? LOL!!! It was a fun book for the most part. There were times when I was annoyed with Emma's attitude. Sophie Kinsella's characters tend to have that effect on me. But then it got better and I especially loved the way Emma matured throughout the book and stood up for herself often. When they were on their first date and Jack was ordering everything for Emma and basically controlling everything, Emma started yelling at him for it, I was like you go girl! Tell him! I was impressed that she told him to quite choosing for her because she told him what her favorite meal was on the plain or whatever. Like, what if she wasn't in the mood for champagne? Anyways, everything (view spoiler) [worked out great (hide spoiler) ] in the end, and I was happy :D I also loved the way Jack's mindset grew and developed after associating and spending time with Emma! It was a wonderful development! I would recommend this one if you are at least somewhat patient! ...more *full review to come* 2.5 stars - Spoilers This was kind of fun but also kind of awful, as expected the heroine was an utter idiot and the plot was beyond silly, but I have to admit that there were some funny moments and the story despite being nonsensical was easy to get through and somewhat entertaining. -Who the hell would reveal ALL their secrets to a total stranger? The heroine (Emma) blurted out every little detail of her life to some random guy sitting next to her just because the plane she was on was going thro 2.5 stars - Spoilers This was kind of fun but also kind of awful, as expected the heroine was an utter idiot and the plot was beyond silly, but I have to admit that there were some funny moments and the story despite being nonsensical was easy to get through and somewhat entertaining. -Who the hell would reveal ALL their secrets to a total stranger? The heroine (Emma) blurted out every little detail of her life to some random guy sitting next to her just because the plane she was on was going through some turbulence. Naturally, the random guy turned out to be her sexy, bazillionaire boss who used her secrets against her the first chance he got (never mind professionalism and good work ethic). -All the female characters were men obsessed idiots, their only goal in life was getting married and having babies. Nothing else was important, career and family didn't matter, it was all about landing a man. That was the ultimate achievement. Ugh. -Why did Emma keep banging on about getting a promotion at work when she hadn't been there long enough or proved herself or done anything worthy? She was seriously deluded. -Why did Emma keep saying Jack was in love with her? Not once did he tell her he loved her and there was nothing in his actions that suggested he was. They'd had two dates and one night of sex and that somehow made Emma think Jack was in love with her. What a stupid cow. -Why didn't Emma ever stick up for herself? Why are all of Kinsella's heroines such doormats? Emma was on a whole other level of doormat, she just smiled and kept her mouth shut whenever her family or someone else bitched at her. It was beyond infuriating to read the POV of someone who was so unable to stand up for themselves. -Emma's parents were such dicks, they treated her like crap and never showed her any love or support. They saved all that for their niece (Kerry), and treated her better than their own daughter. Emma was the one who needed love and emotional support, not Kerry. When her jerk parents finally realised how they'd been favouring Kerry over their only child for years, all they did was give a lame apology and act mildly remorseful. And silly cow Emma immediately accepted their apology and was over the top grateful for them finally acting like half decent parents. Yea, as fucking if. A halfhearted apology doesn't erase years of rubbish parenting, Emma's reaction was so unrealistic. In reality she would have still been hurt and bitter about how unloved she'd felt growing up, I didn't expect her to rant and rage at them but some real emotions would have been appreciated. Instead she went on like they were the best parents in the world, and magically forgot their douchey behaviour after a sentence or two of mild remorse. Yea right. -There was more passion and emotion from Jack and his dead friend than Jack/Emma. The way Jack talked about him, it was like they had an epic love affair or something. I ended up wanting to read about them instead of Jack/Emma's relationship. -Jack spilling all of Emma's secrets on TV was a dick move. And then him acting like it was unintentional was beyond ridiculous, he revealed every little thing about her and then he was all 'duh, it was an accident. I'm sowwy.' The whole thing was ridiculous, and Emma was bonkers to let him off the hook. They were both such idiots. -Really liked Emma's friendships with Liss and Jemima, it was the highlight of the book. A ridiculous read, but it was still quite funny and entertaining in a cheesy, predictable, cliched, silly sort of way. ...more What to say about this book? I remember when my friends and I went to Cebu (another BIG island next to ours. Philippines is composed of of 7,107 islands..) We went to a supermarket before going to our campsite to buy some basic stuffs. One of my friends, Jeffrey was with me.(I don't know why he keeps on tagging along with me) I know my period is just around the corner so I was looking for some tampons. Now, tell me ladies. Can you buy a tampon with a straight face if one of your very male, very What to say about this book? I remember when my friends and I went to Cebu (another BIG island next to ours. Philippines is composed of of 7,107 islands..) We went to a supermarket before going to our campsite to buy some basic stuffs. One of my friends, Jeffrey was with me.(I don't know why he keeps on tagging along with me) I know my period is just around the corner so I was looking for some tampons. Now, tell me ladies. Can you buy a tampon with a straight face if one of your very male, very virile friend is with you? Even if he is the kind of friend who I share a single lollipop without having second thoughts, I tell you, NO. Bad: the store is SO big I can't find where they put the fucking tampons and I'm having a hard time looking for it. The freaking sales ladies were not around at that times so there's no one to ask. The time came when he noticed I'm not buying anything, just strolling around. He asked me if there's something I'm looking for and I'm too embarrassed to tell him I'm looking for a you know what. I just can't tell him to leave me alone because he'll know I'm hiding something. (In his universe, the only reason I'll send him away is when I'm planning to buy chocolates and I'm not planning to give him anything.) Worse: Jeff is the type of guy who won't stop badgering you if he knows you are hiding something so I just can't send him away. I'm getting antsy because we only have a limited time in the store and I still can't find the tampons, so no other choice, I whispered: \"Quiet you, I'm looking for some tampons.\" To which he replied: OH YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A TAMPON?! WHY DIDN'T YOU SAY SO?! LET'S LOOK FOR YOUR TAMPONS! HOW MANY TAMPONS DO YOU NEED? Did I mention that he keeps on saying-excuse me- shouting the word TAMPON? I was so mortified because a group of guys were looking at us and some high-school girls were laughing. I wanted to punch the son-of-a-gun and maybe cripple him a little but I can't because he was one of the people I love so much and no matter how embarrassing that scenario was, my fondness for him was bigger than the mortification. Same with this bloody book. It was embarrassing in a way that I was embarrassed for the heroine when she found her self in those certain situations. I died a little when the secret was out in her workplace. But no matter what, I just can't hate or put the book down because I learned to love it. I love it and it was worth it. Now, why did I keep on remembering that scene with me, Jeff and the tampon? Hell, I don't know. Maybe because I miss the jerk and it's been a while since we last saw each other. Now excuse me while I call the big guy. *fades away...* ...more Absolutely hilarious and entertaining! Can You Keep a Secret is the type of novel you pick up to relax your imagination and enjoy the ride. I laughed throughout this entire book as Emma Corrigan stumbled through life tripping on mishap after mishap! She was an absolute delightful disaster! In this novel, Emma Corrigan has high hopes for herself. She\u2019s given an opportunity to represent her corporation in an important client campaign meeting. When the meeting falls apart, that\u2019s only the beginning Absolutely hilarious and entertaining! Can You Keep a Secret is the type of novel you pick up to relax your imagination and enjoy the ride. I laughed throughout this entire book as Emma Corrigan stumbled through life tripping on mishap after mishap! She was an absolute delightful disaster! In this novel, Emma Corrigan has high hopes for herself. She\u2019s given an opportunity to represent her corporation in an important client campaign meeting. When the meeting falls apart, that\u2019s only the beginning of her troubles. Now that she sees her chances of a promotion slipping away, she can\u2019t stop the downward spiral. She takes a flight back home and the airplane hits turbulence causing the passengers and herself to panic. In sheer terror of a possible crash, Emma turns to the handsome stranger sitting next to her and spills her secrets in a mindless ramble. When she lands safely and returns to work the next day, she realizes the stranger that sat next to her and heard her dramatic soliloquy is the corporate owner of her company! Well, it goes without saying things just keep getting more and more complicated, but in the truest form of hilarious entertainment. I absolutely adored Emma Corrigan\u2019s narration. Everything she confessed, all of her wild musings, her irrational decisions were pure delight. Jack Harper was a nice compliment to this story, and I was absolutely impressed that he remembered all of her confessions. There were times that I appreciated his protective manner to right some of the wrongs Emma had shared, but there was one moment when Jack crossed the line. I\u2019m happy with how he handled his indiscretion, and I believed he was remorseful, so that all worked out well. Overall, Can You Keep a Secret was filled with laugh out loud moments, cringing, guffawing and all sorts of reactions that shouldn\u2019t be displayed in public. Yes, this is definitely a story you should read in a secluded corner! Waves of Fiction 2015 Reading Challenge - A book you shouldn't read in public. ...more Another fun book from Sophie Kinsella! I always have such a great time with her books, they always put a smile on my face and make me chuckle, and this book is no exception! I loved the premise of this story, telling a complete stranger all your secrets in a moment of panic, thinking your secrets are safe then BOOM that stranger isn't a stranger anymore! I think it such a fun idea and as always I really enjoyed the characters. I found I could relate with Emma and I enjoyed hearing her story and t Another fun book from Sophie Kinsella! I always have such a great time with her books, they always put a smile on my face and make me chuckle, and this book is no exception! I loved the premise of this story, telling a complete stranger all your secrets in a moment of panic, thinking your secrets are safe then BOOM that stranger isn't a stranger anymore! I think it such a fun idea and as always I really enjoyed the characters. I found I could relate with Emma and I enjoyed hearing her story and thinking about all the little secrets I have as well! If your looking for a cute funny book, I recommend this one for sure! ...more I completely forgot I read this book until I saw some reference to Sophie Kinsella and thought, \"Wait, didn't I read something by her?\" That's exactly what this book was: mildly entertaining and completely forgettable. Can You Keep a Secret is possibly my favorite Kinsella standalone. It follows the story of Emma, an ordinary, slightly ditzy girl (think Anna from Anna and the French Kiss ) who accidentally spills all her secrets to a stranger on the plane. And that stranger later turns out to be her boss. In honor of this book\u2014and because I absolutely suck at writing reviews for books I love, I am going to spill to you, strangers of the Internet, all of my secrets. Okay, not all, but five. 1. I used to be majorly Can You Keep a Secret is possibly my favorite Kinsella standalone. It follows the story of Emma, an ordinary, slightly ditzy girl (think Anna from Anna and the French Kiss ) who accidentally spills all her secrets to a stranger on the plane. And that stranger later turns out to be her boss. In honor of this book\u2014and because I absolutely suck at writing reviews for books I love, I am going to spill to you, strangers of the Internet, all of my secrets. Okay, not all, but five. 1. I used to be majorly obsessed with Seventeen magazine. Back then, I begged my parents numerous times over the dinner table to buy me a subscription (all the savings!), but they always refused. In hindsight, that was probably a good thing because I soon got tired of all the high-definition pages of clothes, shoes, and make-up. The real sustenance was located in the back and only covered 4-5 pages. I'm proud to say that nowadays I blow my money on more worthy things, like badly-written YA novels that induce headaches. 2. That's a biggie. 3. I'm a huge fan of Taylor Swift, even though liking her is an extremely uncool thing these days. Her lyrics are prose spun into music, that's all the reason I need. 4. I sometimes think The Book Thief is better than the Harry Potter series. Then I make a pro-vs-con list in my head and all is right in the world once more. 5. I love Kinsella's work. A lot of people hate them and I get it. Her heroines are essentially recycled book to book. The love interest is usually American and a logical businessman compared to the scatterbrained MC. They're filled with first-world problems and limited character growth. The problems work themselves out most of the time and the MC and Mr. Businessman go home happy and schmooze. But at the same time, they're also fun, compulsively readable, and keep me up reading til 2am on a school night because I can't stop flipping the pages. They remind me that reading is indeed a hobby and something I look forward to after a long day, unlike some books I could mention *cough* The Death Cure *cough* So the next time someone asks me who my favorite authors are, I'll say: \"Stephen King, J. K Rowling, George R.R. Martin, Julie Kagawa, Markus Zusak, Meg Cabot, Sophie Kinsella\u2014Yes, Sophie Kinsella.\" ...more Sophie Kinsella's \"Can You Keep a Secret?\" blew me away with its wit and humor. There were times when I roared out loud with laughter and there was a time near the end of the book where I wanted to weep. This book surpassed my expectations. After reading the Undomestic Goddess , I was expecting a book that was similarly amusing, but Emma is a much funnier character. ***Spoiler Alert*** When we meet Emma Corrigan she totally messes up a \"slam-dunk\" business meeting and is headed back to London from Sophie Kinsella's \"Can You Keep a Secret?\" blew me away with its wit and humor. There were times when I roared out loud with laughter and there was a time near the end of the book where I wanted to weep. This book surpassed my expectations. After reading the Undomestic Goddess , I was expecting a book that was similarly amusing, but Emma is a much funnier character. ***Spoiler Alert*** When we meet Emma Corrigan she totally messes up a \"slam-dunk\" business meeting and is headed back to London from Scotland on a flight that gets rather turbulent in more ways than one. In some ways, the turbulent plane ride becomes a metaphor for her life throughout much of the book after meeting a fellow business executive, who turns out to be her firm's founding owner--Jack Harper. Emma spills all of her secrets to this stranger on the flight while others on the flight are praying that they will land safely in London. These secrets range from her hatred of crochet to her attempts to kill a co-worker's plant with orange juice. She thinks nothing much of it at the time because he is a mere stranger on the plane. However, she soon gets back to the office to discover that the man on the plane is none other than Jack Harper, the partial owner of Panther Corporation. The banter between Emma and Jack sets the stage for the ultimate betrayal. Emma runs the gamut of emotions in this book from pleased with herself that she and the CEO have a secret understanding to head-over-heels in love to disappointment, embarrassment, and betrayal. ***End Spoiler Alert*** This books examines relationships in their many forms: love, romance, friendship, family. Emma learns a lot about her familial relationships and that even the best of friends have secrets from one another. She learns that honesty may be the hardest option in some cases, but it generally is the best road to undertake. Her evolution throughout the novel is fantastic and well-paced. I enjoyed Emma's struggles, which often reflect many of the struggles other women have in balancing the many relationships we have. It begs the question, who do you trust you secrets to? I for one spread them around to various people. I have to keep everyone guessing at some point, don't I? It also makes me wonder, how many of my secrets have been passed along to others in the heat of the moment. That's a question for readers...Have you told a secret to one person and not another, and why? And have you ever blurted out someone's secret accidentally without meaning to harm the person entrusting you with that secret? ...more sebuah pengakuan.. um.. setengah pengakuan lebih tepatnya chiklit.. chicklit.. cik ah okay.. okay.. gw baca chicklit juga ahirnya. kesan pertama baca chiklit gw jadi punya perasaan udah ngintip kehidupan seorang cewe dan rahasia-rahasia mereka. oo.. jadi gini kalo cw lagi ember, oo.. jadi gini cewe kalo lagi dandan, oo.. jadi gini kalo cewe lagi ngegosipin cowo, oo.. jadi gini kalo cewe lagi ngadat, tanpa bermaksud untuk menyamaratakan cewe, jadi maaf kalo ada cewe yang merasa gak seperti itu ya.. sebuah pengakuan.. um.. setengah pengakuan lebih tepatnya chiklit.. chicklit.. cik ah okay.. okay.. gw baca chicklit juga ahirnya. kesan pertama baca chiklit gw jadi punya perasaan udah ngintip kehidupan seorang cewe dan rahasia-rahasia mereka. oo.. jadi gini kalo cw lagi ember, oo.. jadi gini cewe kalo lagi dandan, oo.. jadi gini kalo cewe lagi ngegosipin cowo, oo.. jadi gini kalo cewe lagi ngadat, tanpa bermaksud untuk menyamaratakan cewe, jadi maaf kalo ada cewe yang merasa gak seperti itu ya.. hehehe. secara umum buku ini bisa bikin nyengir ato malah ketawa ngakak lah. salah satu joke yang paling nonjok (buat gw pribadi) yaitu ketika Connor (yang jelas-jelas ingin meniru seorang Humprey Bogart-meski secara konteks jauuuuh banget) yang udah diputusin Emma bilang, \"We'll always have jazz.\" disini gw ngakak kenceng banget tengah malem karena buat gw pribadi sebagai fans berat film Casablanca joke ini sangat personal sekaleee... karakter seorang Jemima yang bisa bikin gw menjambak-jambak sorban ama janggot gw karena frustrasi berat ketika membacanya (ampuuuuun deh). Eh, emang didunia nyata ada tipe cewe kayak dia? *nyabutin jenggot dengan penuh kengerian ngebayangin balas dendam pake minyak cabe * sumprit, buat kaum testosteron joke kayak ginian bisa dibilang personal. ugh.. bener-bener cewe tipe Fatal Atraction abis, hahaha... um.. um.. jadi riset kecil-kecilan nih, di friendlist gw ada 30 orang yang udah baca buku ini, cewe semua. dan semua yang ngerating buku ini nyaris cewe semua. pada kemana cowonya? yah, jadi bertanya-tanya sendiri... sebegitu segmented kah sebuah genre chicklit ini, sehingga hanya dibaca oleh cewe? (kadar estrogen buku ini emang pekat banget sih) sebegitu alergikah (ato gengsi?) kaum testosteron dengan chicklit? sehingga genre ini terkesan \"dihindari\" oleh kaum testosteron, ato kemungkinan lain yaitu, ada kaum testosteron yang udah baca chiklit tapi gak mau mengakuinya :-p *menatap curiga pada bokap yang lagi anteng baca koran* so, call it self-defense, denial, etc, I don't mind that, heuheu.. jadi harap maklum saja kalo gw terlihat malu-malu ato gengsi untuk mengakui kalo gw baca buku ini. sebodo ah, toh pada akhirnya gw ngaku juga kalo gw suka... eh, uh, maksudnya sudah baca buku ini :-p *nutupin muka pake kresek* baca chicklit lagi? jangan? baca lagi? jangan? baca? jangan? *ngitung kancing sambil ngelus-ngelus \"Remember Me?\" * hmm.. very tempting. ...more I adored this one! Emma spills all her secrets to a stranger on a plane when she thinks they're about to die- then he turns out to be the millionaire head of the company she works for. The rest of the story is well paced and enjoyable. Emma was a very likable and easy to relate to character and I definitely found myself hoping things would work out for her. The writing is light and witty and the book is impossible to put down. It was a very fun read and definitely on par with Kinsella's Shopahol I adored this one! Emma spills all her secrets to a stranger on a plane when she thinks they're about to die- then he turns out to be the millionaire head of the company she works for. The rest of the story is well paced and enjoyable. Emma was a very likable and easy to relate to character and I definitely found myself hoping things would work out for her. The writing is light and witty and the book is impossible to put down. It was a very fun read and definitely on par with Kinsella's Shopaholic books. For more of my reviews and recommendations, visit my blog: here ...more<---C>Artemis</---C>", "Title": "Can You Keep a Secret?"},
