{"Comments": "It's about time I write this review. I wasn't blown away by Shiver, but that doesn't mean I wasn't eagerly waiting for <+++>Linger</+++>. I seem to be in the minority here, but I liked <+++>Linger</+++> more than I did Shiver.<---F> I still don't understand Sam though</---F>. I've decided not call him gay anymore, because he makes it abundantly clear that he loves Grace. So instead, I will just call him feminine. I mean this boy 1. bakes bread 2. reads German poetry 3. writes sappy love songs 4. cooks 5. folds paper 6. is sensitive (ak It's about time I write this review. I wasn't blown away by Shiver, but that doesn't mean I wasn't eagerly waiting for Linger. I seem to be in the minority here, but I liked Linger more than I did Shiver. I still don't understand Sam though. I've decided not call him gay anymore, because he makes it abundantly clear that he loves Grace. So instead, I will just call him feminine. I mean this boy 1. bakes bread 2. reads German poetry 3. writes sappy love songs 4. cooks 5. folds paper 6. is sensitive (aka moody). And not in the sexy-never-know-what-hes gonna-do way, but in the oh-no-hes-crying-again way. Seriously, this boy would get eaten alive in any high school. I still like Grace though. She's neat. Smart and savvy. But I am glad its not just those two anymore. If I had to read another 350 paged sappy lovefest between those two, I wouldn't be able to take it. So I'm glad for the new POV of Isabel and Cole. I've always liked Isabel. She's ballsy but not invulnerable. I like how she isn't portayed as perfect. And then there's Cole....I won't even try to hide the crush I have on him. *shrugs* I have a thing for damaged rock stars. It was interesting to see the whole situation through their eyes. It kept the story fresh, and I didn't get confused when ever there was a shift in perspective. And I don't care much about Isabel and Cole as a couple. That's not really necessary. And of course I was pissed at the parents. Not because they did what did in itself, but because they did it without precedent. Its kinda like when my mother let my dog run around the yard just after installing the electric fence. My dog was running around,<---M> not a care in the world</---M>, unaware that a few feet away was an underground wire that would shock her if she came near it. My dog was not aware that the boundry existed, which is why it was made all the more cruel when she got zapped. The writing, as usual, was good. There is something so delicate about it that sets the mood for the story. The story would be absolutely suckish if the writing wasn't so good, which is probably why I was able to tolerate the slow pace. So I liked it, and definitely have a few questions. Forever needs to come NOW. ...more Hm. When this book arrived, I wasn't so sure if I should read it right away or if it would be better to wait for the final book of the trilogy, Forever , to be available. In the end, I was simply too curious ;). But a small warning: This book ends on a major cliffhanger. Altogether, the book wasn't bad - rather slow, though - but it was one of those sequels that wouldn't really have been necessary in my opinion. While I wasn't totally ecstatic about Shiver, I definitely would have remembered it as Hm. When this book arrived, I wasn't so sure if I should read it right away or if it would be better to wait for the final book of the trilogy, Forever , to be available. In the end, I was simply too curious ;). But a small warning: This book ends on a major cliffhanger. Altogether, the book wasn't bad - rather slow, though - but it was one of those sequels that wouldn't really have been necessary in my opinion. While I wasn't totally ecstatic about Shiver, I definitely would have remembered it as a beautifully written stand-alone book with an ending that made me hope for a better future for the two main characters. It didn't need a sequel. Now, in Linger, the whole story seems to move backward instead of forward: Grace suddenly feels sick, and it is indicated that she can't escape her destiny to be a wolf much longer (Seriously, why exactly now ?). Sam struggles with his new-found life and also with the young wolves Beck has brought with him from Canada. The only aspect that added something new was the introduction of Isabel's and Cole's point of view, which made the story more fresh and interesting. I already liked Isabel in Shiver and although Cole is a rather uncomfortable character, making those close to him suffer with his self-destructive beheaviour, I couldn't help but like him as well. What really infuriated me though were Grace's parents. They suddenly get the idea that they should keep an eye on their teenage daughter because her boyfriend is clearly having a bad influence on her. Sure. And they do it in exactly the way that makes children hate their parents for not taking them seriously. I'm really not sure why they behaved the way they did - maybe there will be an explanation in the next book - but to me, it felt like a rather weak plot device to make Grace and Sam's relationship more difficult and add a forbidden flavour. All in all, I couldn't shake the feeling that some of the conflicts here were only created to have something to write about, therefore only three stars from me. But I have to admit that I'm going to read Forever nevertheless (I suppose a normal reaction concerning that cliffhanger), I simply want to know how the story progresses. Edit: I've decided to remove a star here. Now that it's been a while, my curiosity to read the sequel has diminished and I'm actually not the slightest bit interested in the story anymore. I think Grace's and Sam's relationship - and let's face it, that's the only thing these books are about - has never really resonated with me. ...more <---A>Maggie Stiefvater</---A> has a divine way with words. She describes things in vivid detail that had the ability to enchant anyone. She concocts beautiful colloquies that leaves the reader in raptures. I am a reader. So why the hell am I giving the book Linger, which was written by an exceptionally talented Maggie Stiefvater, two stars if I'm all praises at her writing? What the hell went wrong? Well, I honestly don't know either, but despite the writing being lyrical as most goodread users put it, the book Maggie Stiefvater has a divine way with words. She describes things in vivid detail that had the ability to enchant anyone. She concocts beautiful colloquies that leaves the reader in raptures. I am a reader. So why the hell am I giving the book Linger, which was written by an exceptionally talented Maggie Stiefvater, two stars if I'm all praises at her writing? What the hell went wrong? Well, I honestly don't know either, but despite the writing being lyrical as most goodread users put it, the book failed to grab me. Maybe owe it to the fact that I was grabbing it, but still. It didn't hook me. It felt like I was just reading just for the sake of having something to read. The feeling sucked. But to prove that I really read the book, here's a short synopsis: Spoiler Alert! Well, Sam is back as human. He could no longer shift back to being a wolf. Then there's this new suicidal wolf who is a rockstar . How cool is that? I'm being sarcastic. Grace is sick, but she tries hiding this from Sam. They try having a relationship, but her parents get in between. But then from being sick, Grace is then dying. And apparently, the only thing that could save her is to turn wolf. The End. End of Spoilers. I read this book, because I had a reading challenge, where I should pick something with an artsy cover. Well, this is it. Look at the cover, it's dazzling. But this book sure defines a reading challenge. And I put emphasis on the word challenge . It was a challenge, not because the words were complicated and hard to understand, but because I found this boring and tedious that I had to stop for long breaks only to dread the time that I had to read this again. Hell! Asta lavista! I just want to get rid of this book from my memory ASAP, not because I hated it, but because I didn't like it either. I just feel absolutely numb about it. Just like what I feel when I read a dictionary. But at least, I would have given a dictionary 5 stars. ...more 5.5 stars You know that feeling when you\u2019re floating on water? All your senses are dampened, you are weightless, careless and completely relaxed. There aren\u2019t any loud sounds, you are safe, perfectly happy and everything else seems a mile away... That\u2019s EXACTLY how Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s writing makes me feel. I want to hug this book and never ever let it out of my sight. Grace and Sam are finally together, but they live in fear. They are constantly afraid that things will go back to the way they we 5.5 stars You know that feeling when you\u2019re floating on water? All your senses are dampened, you are weightless, careless and completely relaxed. There aren\u2019t any loud sounds, you are safe, perfectly happy and everything else seems a mile away... That\u2019s EXACTLY how Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s writing makes me feel. I want to hug this book and never ever let it out of my sight. Grace and Sam are finally together, but they live in fear. They are constantly afraid that things will go back to the way they were before, and unfortunately, it\u2019s not something either of them can control. There are several new wolves in the woods and it\u2019s up to Sam to take care of them all now \u2013 the old and the new. In addition, Grace\u2019s parents finally started noticing things and decided to start honing their parenting skills. Linger brings us two additional POVs. We get to see some of the events through the eyes of Isabel, to whom we were introduced in Shiver, and Cole, one of the new wolves. The two of them are so very different from Sam and Grace and having four POVs instead of two brought amazing balance to the story. While this would certainly bother me in Shiver, I was thrilled by it now. That doesn\u2019t mean that I like Grace and Sam any less. In fact, if I had feelings for those characters before, it was nothing compared to how I feel about them now. They are both beautiful and strong in their own way. I\u2019ve noticed that my favorite quotes usually come from Sam\u2019s chapters, although Grace has her moments, too. There\u2019s a reason for that, of course. Sam is just the type of gentle soul I can start loving in a heartbeat, and after all, he\u2019s supposed to be good with words. There isn\u2019t a character in YA literature I could ever love more than I love Sam. A look in his eyes is all it takes to make me cry! I did my best to find a flaw in Linger \u2013 this may sound odd, but I wanted to have at least one small thing to complain about because I thought it would add credibility to the rest of my review. I tried my best and failed miserably. Oh, I\u2019ve read my friends\u2019 reviews but I simply don\u2019t agree with any of them. The first half was not slow for me, it was soft and beautiful. Isabel and Cole weren\u2019t irritating, they were troubled and interesting. The prose wasn\u2019t purple, it was\u2026 I already said that, didn\u2019t I? I could go on and on for days, but it wouldn\u2019t do much good. This is the second book in a series that needs to be read in order. If you liked Shiver, you are going to like Linger too, I have no doubt about it. ...more Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. I can't even describe how I feel right now.. I love this book so much :( After pretty much loving Shiver despite its flaws like the lack of plot and the bleeding-womb-incident, I was really looking forward to Linger. Well, I really hate to say it, but I did not love Linger. I tried to love it, but sadly, I just don\u2019t. And here is why: 1. Plot I did not care for the plot, or rather, the lack thereof. What little mystery and suspense there could have been never even gets a chance due to the spoilery prologue, that pretty much sums up the whole book. What Shiver lacked i After pretty much loving Shiver despite its flaws like the lack of plot and the bleeding-womb-incident, I was really looking forward to Linger. Well, I really hate to say it, but I did not love Linger. I tried to love it, but sadly, I just don\u2019t. And here is why: 1.\tPlot I did not care for the plot, or rather, the lack thereof. What little mystery and suspense there could have been never even gets a chance due to the spoilery prologue, that pretty much sums up the whole book. What Shiver lacked in plot it made up in mood and the ever present countdown in form of the dropping temperature. Linger, sadly, had nothing that managed to make up for the nonexistent plot. 2.\tThe parents I had no problem, with the portrayal of Grace\u2019s parents in Shiver. Of course it was a little too convenient for them to always be absent, but let\u2019s face it: parents like that do exist. What I did not get was, why they suddenly disapproved of Grace\u2019s and Sam\u2019s relationship. In Shiver Grace\u2019s father seemed relieved that she (finally) had a boyfriend and now he is against their relationship? Why? Would he rather his daughter had a new boyfriend every other week? And Grace\u2019s mother loved Sam in Shiver. She even had this scene with him, where she identifies him as the one in a million that would choose love over lust. And they definitely bond over the arts. And now she is all \u201cYou\u2019re in lust\u201d? I don\u2019t get it. If you put all the other parents in the mix, you really have to wonder if Mercy Falls is a shelter for abused and neglected teens. There was no sane or capable parent anywhere around and after a while that just gets old. 3.\tThe obsession There is a thin line between love and obsession and in my opinion Linger came out on the obsession side far too often. In Shiver it was sweet, in Linger it was bordering creepy sometimes. It would be sweet when they missed each other while falling asleep. But the fact that Sam has to roam the house at night when Grace is not with him strikes me as pathological. There is also one passage when Cole is narrating where he mentions, how they both light up, when the other one is around. It\u2019s almost as if the can\u2019t cope with life without the other one, even if it is for two days, and that is just sad, not romantic. The worst part was, when they both totally ignore the fact that Grace is getting worse and worse and refuse to talk about what this could mean. When they finally take actions it is almost too late and even then it took Isabel telling Sam to finally man up, before anything happened. That in itself is so immature that I have a hard time taking them seriously when they talk about college, let alone marriage. 4.\tEnding The last thirty or so pages of Shiver I cried my eyes out. Here: nothing. We all new, what would happen in the end, so maybe that ruined it. Or maybe it was the whole hospital-weirdness: How one minute Grace is surrounded by like twenty members of the hospital staff and just in the moment when they figure out the problem she is alone in her room, while bleeding to death? Really? And the way Cole came up with the totally new werewolf lore practically out of nowhere? The worst part was, when they lifted Grace out of the window. Wouldn\u2019t she be like hooked up to lots of machines that would go off as soon as you detach her? And what person in their right mind, let alone a doctor, would believe that a dying, bloodless girl could escape the hospital on foot, her healthy boyfriend unable to stop her? Another thing about the end that bothered me was that I distinctly remember Maggie Stiefvater stating, that she herself did not care for cliffhangers and would write her books in a way that they could be standalones, even when part of a series. Well, this was the cliffhangeryest cliffhanger since Catching Fire, let\u2019s leave it at that. There are still things I liked about Linger, which is why I still give it two stars. The writing was overall beautifully poetic and I still care about the characters. I hope Forever will bring the series to a satisfying conclusion. ...more While reading Linger , I kept thinking, \"Wow, I really like this. This is awesome. But I still like Shiver better...\" And I kept that sentiment up until the last few chapters. Then it ended. And now, I have to say that I like both books EQUALLY. I agree, Linger 's ending isn't entirely out of the blue, and I actually had my suspicions that the story *would* end \"that way,\" but my reading experience was still enjoyable and engrossing. I do think it's fair to say that the tones of Linger and Shiver a While reading Linger , I kept thinking, \"Wow, I really like this. This is awesome. But I still like Shiver better...\" And I kept that sentiment up until the last few chapters. Then it ended. And now, I have to say that I like both books EQUALLY. I agree, Linger 's ending isn't entirely out of the blue, and I actually had my suspicions that the story *would* end \"that way,\" but my reading experience was still enjoyable and engrossing. I do think it's fair to say that the tones of Linger and Shiver are a tad different. Linger (in my opinion) didn't seem quite as urgent and while I still felt a sense of foreboding, it wasn't quite as strong as with the preceding book. For me, Linger was like a cool-down lap around the track: the story moved at a steadier pace, and that enabled the reader (me) to examine characters a little better and focus on other parts of the story that took a back seat to the main upfront obstacle of Shiver . I hope that makes sense. I will not say that Shiver was 'exciting' and Linger was 'boring,' because that's not true. But Linger was...well, \"lingering.\" I was actually very impressed with the characterization of this story. Yes, there are 4 perspectives here as compared to only 2 in the previous book. Isabel is now a main character, and a new character named Cole is introduced. I was a little wary going in to Linger about this setup, and in all honesty, I was prepared to skim the I&C segments, just because I had already told myself that Grace and Sam \"were the important ones.\" Well, I quickly changed my tune. I loved how Maggie incorporated all 4 narratives into the overall story, and I think it was a really smart move story-wise. Isabel and Cole are more complex than Sam and Grace, even though all 4 characters have dysfunctional elements (do you guys notice that pretty much all of the main characters come from varying degrees of crappy families?). What made characterization of this story so enjoyable to me was a the delicate balance of similar and contrasting behaviors - Isabel and Cole are not such polar opposites from Grace and Sam that they have nothing in common. Rather, they compliment each other well: where one is weak, the other is strong, where one is impulsive, the other is cool and controlled. The only little \"thing\" I had with the 4 narratives was that sometimes perspectives would change multiple times throughout a single chapter, and it made the transitions really abrupt. Like from what I can remember in Shiver , Grace and Sam for the most part alternated by chapter. Here, there were some occasions were each of the 4 perspectives would be featured in a single chapter, and so the transitioning was just kind of abrupt. But to the author's credit, I always knew who was speaking, and I don't just mean because at the top it said \"COLE\" or \"ISABEL.\" The voices were so distinct that I quickly got an idea of who was now narrating. Also what I liked about the characters (and I'm emphasizing Isabel and Cole more) is that while they were all complicated and flawed, they never really used their flaws as crutches. Well, Cole does a little bit, but (without dropping spoilers) he eventually makes himself useful and actually starts to give a wang about other people. So that was interesting to watch him grow. And Isabel is just about the coolest character since Thalia: I LOVED her so much because while she is snarky and a little on the bossy side, she's a very hands-on, take charge kind of girl, and she was exactly what Sam and Grace needed. I love Sam and Grace, but even they needed a little nudging here and there. Isabel's strengths are balanced by her anxieties, and that made her seem real but also inspiring. I like characters you can not only relate to but also look up to , and there's a lot to be learned from Isabel (in particular). And now it's July 2010 and I've got a whole freaking year until this series comes to a close! Agghh! So in a nutshell: Linger was just as enjoyable and exciting as Shiver , and fans of the first book will NOT be disappointed. Figure skater Maggie has earned another gold medal with this one :) ...more There are certain books that inspire me so tremendously, so irrevocably, that I know these books fuel the flames of my passion for reading and writing. Shiver , and now Linger , have joined these ranks. Linger is the sequel to Shiver , and continues the bittersweet story of Sam and Grace, two lovers who fight for the right to be together. Sam stays sorrowful in the absence of Grace and desperately tries to avoid his past. Grace grows weak and frightful, while her hopes of a future with Sam dissipate There are certain books that inspire me so tremendously, so irrevocably, that I know these books fuel the flames of my passion for reading and writing. Shiver , and now Linger , have joined these ranks. Linger is the sequel to Shiver , and continues the bittersweet story of Sam and Grace, two lovers who fight for the right to be together. Sam stays sorrowful in the absence of Grace and desperately tries to avoid his past. Grace grows weak and frightful, while her hopes of a future with Sam dissipate and decrease. And there is a new addition to the werewolf pack: Cole, a former rock star who would go to any length to escape his body, his pain. These three separate individuals were brought together by the shifting seasons and ties to the wolves of Mercy Falls\u2026 but will the forces that led them to each other also tear them apart? Linger was not without its flaws. For some readers, the pacing of the plot may be rather slow in the beginning, and Stiefvater\u2019s prose may border on purple. And yet, I could not bear to put this book down. I could not bear the agony of not knowing what happened to these magnificently drawn characters. Instead of receiving narration from just Sam and Grace, Isabel and newcomer Cole also get to share their side of the story. Although it seems like having four paradigms instead of a single pair may detract from the story, the addition of Isabel and Cole only enhanced the depth of these characters. Grace and Sam\u2019s chemistry was touching as always, but there was something about the relationship between Isabel and Cole that might have ignited an even larger fire in my heart. And Isabel, as well as Cole, was perfectly fleshed out. Isabel\u2019s guilt for losing her brother, and Cole\u2019s need for release from a painful past, tore me up inside. Once again, Stiefvater has written a lyrical tale about love and loss, and fate and destiny. You need to read this book. Want to read more of my reviews? Follow me here . ...more \"If you don\u2019t have memories, it\u2019s like you never existed.\" Linger is book 2 of the The Wolves of Mercy Falls series, a sequel to Shiver . The Prologue says almost everything about the story, so the ending is not very surprising. Despite its predictability, the story has still many beautiful and heartbreaking moments. Linger is melancholy, sometimes maddening and frustrating with Grace\u2019s mysterious illness, Sam\u2019s misgivings and disorientation, Cole\u2019s emptiness and suicidal thoughts, Isabel\u2019s sad \"If you don\u2019t have memories, it\u2019s like you never existed.\" Linger is book 2 of the The Wolves of Mercy Falls series, a sequel to Shiver . The Prologue says almost everything about the story, so the ending is not very surprising. Despite its predictability, the story has still many beautiful and heartbreaking moments. Linger is melancholy, sometimes maddening and frustrating with Grace\u2019s mysterious illness, Sam\u2019s misgivings and disorientation, Cole\u2019s emptiness and suicidal thoughts, Isabel\u2019s sad cynicism, and Tom Culpeper\u2019s wrath provide the dramatic atmosphere. All of this is intertwined with the refreshing viewpoints of Isabel and Cole, making the story lively, even funny. I like Isabel , she is so harsh, bright, and vibrant. She is also very able and strong. \u201cI\u2019m only telling you this so you know that I have wanted to escape about a hundred thousand times since then. I\u2019ve thought about taking one of my dad\u2019s eight million guns and putting it to my head and blowing my brains out. Sad part? Not even because I miss Jack. I mean, I do, but that\u2019s not why I want to do it. It\u2019s because I feel so damn guilty about how I killed him. I killed him. And some days I just can\u2019t live with that. But I do. Because that\u2019s life, Cole. Life\u2019s pain. You just have to get over as much of it as you can.\u201d Cole is more dynamic and vigorous than all the others together. He got what he expected, but ironically he is incapable staying a wolf for a longer period. He experiences completely different and more serious anguish than he had before. I am wondering if it is an explanation for Cole and Victor\u2019s completely different reactions to wolf-toxin. The doe blinked again, face extraordinarily gentle, and my stomach lurched. She was dead, and I wanted to be. I was going to find out how to keep myself a wolf. Or I just couldn\u2019t do this anymore. Sam His disbelief and joy because of his healing is so moving and heartwarming. \u201cStill waking up,\u201d I said. He looked at me. \u201cYour album. Still Waking Up.\u201d He looked at me, expression intense. Surprised, maybe, that I\u2019d come close. \u201cThat\u2019s exactly how it feels. That\u2019s exactly it. One of these days, I\u2019m going to get used to the idea that it\u2019s morning and I\u2019m going to be a guy for the rest of the day. For all the rest of all the days. But until then, I\u2019m stumbling around.\u201d Grace and Sam The honesty and openness Sam and Grace had in Shiver hardly appear in Linger. They try to keep away problems and menace by not talking about them, pretending they don\u2019t exist. These unspoken words create a barrier between them, eroding the intimacy they had before. Their love is said to be beautiful and described poetically but sadly you can't feel it. He\u2019d only been gone two seconds, but the room got brighter when they were together, as if they were two elements that became brilliant in proximity. At Sam\u2019s clumsy efforts to carry the vacuum, Grace smiled a new smile that I thought only he ever got, and he shot her a withering look full of the sort of subtext you could only get from a lot of conversations whispered after dark. It was astonishing to see the loneliness and neglect of these teens, without the help of parents, or adults, relying only on each other. It is so hard to live and deal with this huge secret all alone. Some grumblings - Sam \u2013 he is not a man of deeds in this book. I hoped that he would become a stronger character than he was in Shiver, but it didn't happen. - Grace - I don\u2019t understand why Grace thinks that not talking to Sam about her illness is a good idea. She is absolutely aware of the fact that he already knows it, so I really don\u2019t get it. - The girl Beck had changed in Shiver. Who is she? Where is she? - Olivia \u2013 where is she? I hope I\u2019ll get answers and happy endings in book 3, Forever. Originally posted on my blog on August 28, 2012. My favorite quotes. ...more In the second installment to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series: Sam is having trouble believing in his cure, Grace is acting strangely and feeling like she doesn't fit into her own skin anymore, and a new wolf is in Mercy Falls: Cole, the once lead singer of a popular rock band, NARKOTIKA, is dealing with the issues of straddling the line between man and wolf. But honestly? He'd rather stay a wolf than deal with the problems that come with being human. Meanwhile, Isabel, the girl who had to deal w In the second installment to the Wolves of Mercy Falls series: Sam is having trouble believing in his cure, Grace is acting strangely and feeling like she doesn't fit into her own skin anymore, and a new wolf is in Mercy Falls: Cole, the once lead singer of a popular rock band, NARKOTIKA, is dealing with the issues of straddling the line between man and wolf. But honestly? He'd rather stay a wolf than deal with the problems that come with being human. Meanwhile, Isabel, the girl who had to deal with losing her brother twice, believes she is falling for Cole. Maggie has said in interviews that she meant for Cole's character to be the complete opposite of Sam's. Well, in the beginning of Linger she succeeded and because of that I wasn't able to empathize with Cole upon first reading Linger . For personal reasons I've never been empathetic with drug addicts, and Cole was no exception. In Linger Cole tells Sam that he is just as bad as him, just as damaged. He is referring to Sam's issue with bathtubs. But the difference between Sam's problem and Cole's is that Sam had something terrible done to him by his own parents, whereas all of Cole's problems have been brought on by himself. Despite all of this, though, I truly liked Cole a lot more this time around than my first time reading Linger . For me, the best thing about Cole is that he's very redeemable. And if you look carefully enough, he has what I call \"bright spots\" where you can see that he is human \u2013 even though he doesn't want to be \u2013 and that he does care for others, even if it is an imperceptible degree. And the reactions and emotions Cole has towards the end of Linger give me hope that I'll like him even more in Forever . Linger is quite different than its predecessor, Shiver \u2013 what with Sam now being human and the introduction of a new character, Cole. Plus, Isabel steps out of her former role as side character and into the forefront with her own POV \u2013 and what an interesting POV it is. Some may not like Isabel, and I can understand why, but I like her just fine. She's kind of . . . unconventional \u2013 especially when compared to Grace \u2013 but she's not bad. One thing is for sure: Isabel's definitely the perfect match for Cole. And then there's that pesky wolf smell wafting off of Grace \u2013 that can't be a good sign. You see, lots of things are different in Linger , which is probably why so many don't like it as much as they did Shiver . I will admit to liking it a minuscule degree less than Shiver , but that certainly didn't hinder me from enjoying it. In fact, I believe I enjoyed it even more the second time around. And Linger's ending is just as sad if not more so than Shiver's. And besides \u2013 if you ever see me give a book with Sam Roth in it anything less than five stars, know that it is a clone and the real Lora has been taken by aliens. FAVORITE QUOTES: \"I'm trying to remember who I was before I couldn't stand myself.\" \u2013 Cole \"I wasn't sure if I admired him for feeling everything so hard and fiercely, or if I was contemptuous of him for having so much emotion that he had to spill it out every window of the house.\" \u2013 Isabel \"I was suddenly overwhelmed by what an incredible person this boy was, standing in front of me, and by the fact that he was mine and I was his.\" \u2013 Grace \"I wanted to take her hand and lead her upstairs to my bedroom and whisper, Stay. Just stay .\" \u2013 Sam As cheesy as this may sound, I really do cherish these books. My copies of them still smell like the store I bought them from \u2013 that's how well I've taken care of them. ____________________________________________________ My reviews of other titles in this series: Shiver ...more This one barley made 4 stars for me... Sadness. Despair. Hopelessness. Depression. Impending doom. This is the tone of the second book in Ms. Stievfater\u2019s Mercy Falls series. I absolutely loved Shiver, but the tone of Linger just brought me down. I should have been able to read this in one or two days, but it took a week because I kept putting it down. Sam and Grace are still the main focus in this story. Sam is no longer a wolf, and things should be great right? Wrong. Sam is conflicted about los This one barley made 4 stars for me... Sadness. Despair. Hopelessness. Depression. Impending doom. This is the tone of the second book in Ms. Stievfater\u2019s Mercy Falls series. I absolutely loved Shiver, but the tone of Linger just brought me down. I should have been able to read this in one or two days, but it took a week because I kept putting it down. Sam and Grace are still the main focus in this story. Sam is no longer a wolf, and things should be great right? Wrong. Sam is conflicted about losing his wolf self and family, and the pack is threatened by something or someone killing the wolves. Grace is sick with a fever and they cannot figure out what is wrong with her. I feared the whole book that Grace was going to die or turn into a wolf. We get to know Cole, a new wolf in this book. When he was changed, he was a famous strung out rock star. He chose to become a wolf to lose himself and not have to be miserable any longer. I really liked Cole, even though he came off as a cocky ass most of the time. Isabelle, Grace\u2019s friend, has a large role in this book as well. I still don\u2019t like her that much. She\u2019s one of those women that just shoots off whatever they are thinking without regard to anyone\u2019s feelings. She is drawn to Cole, but doesn\u2019t want to be. She can\u2019t understand why anyone would choose to be a wolf, since she watched her brother die last year while fighting to not become a wolf. All four POV were given throughout out the book. Each chapter was headed by whose POV it was, but if I put the book down and came back later I\u2019d forgot who I was reading because the thinking was pretty similar. I\u2019d get frustrated and have to go back and look. The third book isn\u2019t released for over six months from now! Damn it all, after that cliffhanger of an ending. ...more Linger gets off to a slow start - which I didn\u2019t mind b/c the prose is engaging and I liked the characters from last time - so it was nice to settle into the groove. Problem is - the slow start lingers until halfway through the book. 200 pages of Not A Lot Happening. At which point I check the blurb to try and figure out what the book is about anyways - because half way in and I had no idea. sooo... after finishing it i\u2019m still not sure what it is about? what were the stakes? what did the protags Linger gets off to a slow start - which I didn\u2019t mind b/c the prose is engaging and I liked the characters from last time - so it was nice to settle into the groove. Problem is - the slow start lingers until halfway through the book. 200 pages of Not A Lot Happening. At which point I check the blurb to try and figure out what the book is about anyways - because half way in and I had no idea. sooo... after finishing it i\u2019m still not sure what it is about? what were the stakes? what did the protags want? :/ Some points: I think the prologue (a key scene from the climax) served as a way of having at least something happen. so after 300 pages of meandering around we know it is going to get to a point. Unfortunately, the same prologue gives away the ending and therefore any mystery that could\u2019ve been built into that plot-line. It also robs readers of any satisfaction they may get in figuring things out before the protags do. Makes for a rather passive reading experience - being told the ending before the story has even begun. Then there\u2019s Cole, hot muso boy. Naked. A lot. And making out with Isabel. some people didn't like them. I did. Mainly as at least it felt like something was happening when they were on the scene whereas Grace and Sam\u2019s scenes fell completely flat for me. As for Grace's parents. sigh. I don\u2019t care if parents are used and abused for plot purposes. I get that. But I do like it to at least seem organic. Their reactions didn\u2019t entirely make sense to me and didn't seem in line from what we know of them from Shiver. Obviously, judging from the ratings and that it\u2019s a best seller, I am in the minority here (as I often am). The prose is gorgeous, though as times meandering. As much as I loved reading the lyrical stuff- I was tempted at times to skim to try and get to some action... I felt like I read this simply for the sake of reading. I also feel like Shiver is a great stand-alone book ~ it wraps things up quite nicely and I would prefer to leave this series at that. Note: I don't read a lot of YA paranormal romance* ~ so keep that in mind, haha ~ if you love the genre, you'll probably enjoy this more than I did. *Books like this are probably why :) ...more i wasn't a big fan of shiver and linger did not make me a convert. parts of the story bored me to tears. it felt like the main characters - sam & grace were just going through the motions and their story dragged on with absolutely NOTHING interesting happening. i can't speak for everyone but when i read shiver's ending, i knew sam and grace's situations were going to be reversed and i thought linger would deal with the aftermath. turns out, this entire book would be about getting to that \"re i wasn't a big fan of shiver and linger did not make me a convert. parts of the story bored me to tears. it felt like the main characters - sam & grace were just going through the motions and their story dragged on with absolutely NOTHING interesting happening. i can't speak for everyone but when i read shiver's ending, i knew sam and grace's situations were going to be reversed and i thought linger would deal with the aftermath. turns out, this entire book would be about getting to that \"reversal\" point without explaining anything at all. i mean, in linger, it says that the change in grace was brought about by the toxin that had been lying dormant in her until it sort of needed to get out right? but didn't grace get bitten by shelby in the first book? shouldn't that have affected whatever insane reaction this wolf toxin's supposed to have on her body? maybe the author has an explanation for that in the third book but for me, it just doesn't jell. also, sam and grace's voices don't sound like teenagers at all! really, which 17, 18 year olds talk/think like that? even 100+ year old vampires sound more like a teenager than those two. one thing i liked about this book was the addition of cole and isabel's POV. their story wasn't all that great but at least they weren't as lifeless as sam and grace. and when isabel was pounding on sam about taking care of the wolves and finding out what was wrong with grace, i was thinking along with her: damn right! get some balls, you spineless wuss. seriously, i wanted to slap some sense into sam's insipid character. if not for cole and isabel, i don't think i care enough to know what happens next. ...more I can say that Maggie still showed her talent of writing beautifully in this novel, the way she wrote it was really really good that it made the book tolerable despite its flaws. The book for me was okay it could be amazing but my problem with the book was it's completely plotless, plotless, plotless, and it was also extremely slow in pace. I think the last part of the book was the only one that makes sense that I thought finally that...okay, somehow it has a plot and probably I would still be re I can say that Maggie still showed her talent of writing beautifully in this novel, the way she wrote it was really really good that it made the book tolerable despite its flaws. The book for me was okay it could be amazing but my problem with the book was it's completely plotless, plotless, plotless, and it was also extremely slow in pace. I think the last part of the book was the only one that makes sense that I thought finally that...okay, somehow it has a plot and probably I would still be reading the last book. I don't know, it's just while reading this it's like nothing was really happening until the last part when finally something happened. And the additional characters Cole and Isabel...I really don't get them, I really didn't feel like they have chemistry or whatever. But still it's really okay for me, because for most parts it didn't give the feeling of excitement. The book was more on romance than action and the conflict mostly was with Sam and Grace's parents which I don't buy. I also felt that when something like supernatural like being a werewolf and then it would be explained scientifically somehow it became unrealistic and surely it will contain major plot holes. I just didn't get the theory yet it seems hard to believe and it was also not explain very well. But if you like Shiver, it's okay to read it, just don't have high expectations so you'd not be disappointed. ------------------------------------------------------------------------- Wow this book series has excellent beautiful book covers. Love the title! ...more OMG :c Tengo que calmarme con otras lecturas antes de seguir con el \u00faltimo libro Originally posted at: rivreads.blogspot.com I was a little tentative to start Linger because of the multiple points of view. As you know, instead of Shiver's two characters-Grace and Sam-we have four; the original two along with Isabel and Cole. I felt like the plot buildup was a little slow. It started out awesome; I had high expectations. Then something happened that made me really excited, but then it died down again very quickly. The main problem was something wrong with Grace, and I felt like Originally posted at: rivreads.blogspot.com I was a little tentative to start Linger because of the multiple points of view. As you know, instead of Shiver's two characters-Grace and Sam-we have four; the original two along with Isabel and Cole. I felt like the plot buildup was a little slow. It started out awesome; I had high expectations. Then something happened that made me really excited, but then it died down again very quickly. The main problem was something wrong with Grace, and I felt like this problem wasn't emphasized as much as it should be. This could be done on-purpose, but I felt like I was ignoring it, just to find out it was the main problem. Instead, I found myself focusing on Sam and his problem with Cole, which didn't turn out the way I expected it to. Look to the right for a line graph I made on the buildup. On to Cole. He surprised me. He started off as this obnoxious kid, doing idiotic things and being an overall jerk. But...he was really intelligent. The intelligence doesn't seem to fit with the image I have of him; and I don't like it. It's fun to watch him not be a jerk though, like with Isabel... Which brings me to the romance. In Shiver, Sam wanted to stay human so he could be with Grace; the romance was a key part of the book. In Linger, I felt like the romance wasn't emphasized like it was supposed to be. There was no \"I love you\" and only a bit of \"I miss you\" when Grace and Sam weren't together. There was also very little kissing between the two. This brings us to the Cole-Isabel relationship. I was led to believe that there was something there but...there wasn't. One of my favorite parts of the book was when Cole showed some of his genius and came up with a theory about the werewolves. It put a whole twist on the generic idea of why werewolves (or at least these werewolves) are the way they are. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this part. Overall, I think Shiver was better, but I enjoyed Linger too. I loved the ending, and now I'm dying for Forever. You may have heard \"I now have to wait forever for Forever\" so I'm going to spare you the cheesy lines. It was good. I look forward to Forever. I'm the type that when I finish a good book, I'm excited for the next because I liked it. But after a while, that initial desire fades a bit and my thoughts change to \"I'm excited because I know I liked it.\" I know that I know that I want it. After reading Shiver, I felt this way about Linger; the initial desire is slowly fading as I await book 3. I hope you enjoyed the review, and weren't annoyed by the length. OVERALL RATING: ****/ 4 and a half stars, but because I'm prejudice nice, I'll give it 5. A little added bit: In Shiver, I was hoping that Sam would go visit his parents in jail. He didn't. When I received Linger, I was looking forward to possibly meeting his parents. He didn't go to them, which left me with a feeling of disappointment. I doubt any of you are like this, but I was looking forward to meeting Mr. and Mrs. Roth. I sincerely hope that Maggie Stiefvater brings them into the picture in the final book. One thing that irritated me immensely was Maggie's overuse of a certain character trait and plot developer. Isabel and Cole had many heartfelt discussions. Every time, the character whose point of view it is does something like, \"I wondered why I was telling him/her everything. It was because I knew s/he wouldn't care.\" Every time they spoke, whoever was telling had the same thought: I'm doing it because Cole/Isabel doesn't care anyways, and won't feel bad for me. Once or twice this is fine, but it got increasingly annoying as the book progressed. ...more How do you start the review of one of the best books you have ever read? Do justice to it? I'll do my best. Linger is the story of Sam, Grace, Isabel with the introduction of a new character to the mix Cole. I don't believe in spoilers. I believe in telling people the reasons why this book is such a need for readers of the genre. Here it goes. Words describing what to expect. Grace: Changing, Unpredictable, Strong, stoic, beautiful as ever, In pain, loving, considerate, and for the first time extre How do you start the review of one of the best books you have ever read? Do justice to it? I'll do my best. Linger is the story of Sam, Grace, Isabel with the introduction of a new character to the mix Cole. I don't believe in spoilers. I believe in telling people the reasons why this book is such a need for readers of the genre. Here it goes. Words describing what to expect. Grace: Changing, Unpredictable, Strong, stoic, beautiful as ever, In pain, loving, considerate, and for the first time extremely risky and disobedient. (cheers to that Grace) Sam: Skeptic about his cure, deep, loving, sensitive, growing, maturing, evaluating life and it's possibilities for the first time. Isabel: Being Isabel . =) Direct. Without filters, cold detach, consumed, lonely, reaching out, needing to feel something, trying to connect. Cole: Learning, expanding, converting, unlocking, hiding, hating, unmasking from the inside out. Trying to tolerate his own reflection. Moving on. Forgetting. Now mix them all together, shake the bag. TATA. MAGIC. In Linger Maggie's beautiful writing takes you from one narrative to the next, making the story seamless, never boring, always moving forward. I read the book in one sitting. 4 Hours ignoring the world because I couldn't put it down. I was given an ARC by a friend, we both had been counting the days to receive it. Then when we got it I was terrified to read it because I knew after it I had to wait a year to know what's next. Totally worth it... I have 12 months of re-reading to do. =) Linger is an amazing second installment for this trilogy. This second book makes the trilogy's concept stronger, the characters more colorful, human, deep and believable. Maggie takes you for an amazing ride, going through Sam's heart felt emotions, Isabel's constant needs for security, Grace's changes from the inside out, and Cole. Well... You get to meet Cole, and all I have to say is ... What a first impression. Burned out rock start, that will blow your mind... In a good way. I LOVED LINGER... I highly recommend this book for lovers of well written and thought out YA. Paranormal that are tired of reading the same old. This is IT. ...more Rating Clarification: 3.5 Stars Let me start off by saying that I did enjoy the book Linger \u2026 for the most part that is. Grace and Sam are definitely a likeable set of characters and the overall plot has a strong dose of intrigue to it. However, I found it a bit too slow paced for the first 300 pages or so as our main character suffered through headaches, fevers, bloody noses and fatigue waiting for the inevitable to occur. The multiple POVs had me skeptical at first, and I think Stiefvater could Rating Clarification: 3.5 Stars Let me start off by saying that I did enjoy the book Linger \u2026 for the most part that is. Grace and Sam are definitely a likeable set of characters and the overall plot has a strong dose of intrigue to it. However, I found it a bit too slow paced for the first 300 pages or so as our main character suffered through headaches, fevers, bloody noses and fatigue waiting for the inevitable to occur. The multiple POVs had me skeptical at first, and I think Stiefvater could have easily cut out Isabel\u2019s perspective without sacrificing any significant insight. But overall, the story did deliver at the final hour and I think fans of Shiver will be pleased with this installment. I will note that I read Shiver over nine months ago and I did have a hard time transitioning into the storyline because I don\u2019t feel Stiefvater offers any assistance in that area. She truly picks up right where she left off without any subtle back-story to help out. So I wish I would have re-read Shiver before jumping into the sequel because I was struggling for a bit to recall the details I felt were relevant to the story. In this installment, Grace has suddenly found herself under the watchful eye of her once MIA parents. I don\u2019t quite understand why they changed their tune of suddenly wanting to be the doting, responsible parents, but that\u2019s beside the point. As Grace begins to feel physical changes happening within her body, she and Sam are faced with a change that will threaten their future. Linger introduces a new character, Cole St. Clair and brings a few others into the forefront while Beck, Paul, Ulrich and the rest of the wolf pack are pushed to the backdrop of the woods. Overall, entertaining sequel that ends in a cliffhanger that will leave you howling for more, but for fans of Shiver, it\u2019s definitely worth the investment. ...more What can I say? Except I loved Shiver and truth be told, I always fret a little bit about sequels. I mean, can an author capture that feeling of my first infatuation with a book? That delicious little feeling of \"Wow, I have to keep reading this?\" Well, I have to say that Maggie Stiefvater did. She did it all over again and I sit back amazed at her storytelling skills. This time around it's not just about Sam and Grace. There's more...in fact there are four POVs represented in the book. And while What can I say? Except I loved Shiver and truth be told, I always fret a little bit about sequels. I mean, can an author capture that feeling of my first infatuation with a book? That delicious little feeling of \"Wow, I have to keep reading this?\" Well, I have to say that Maggie Stiefvater did. She did it all over again and I sit back amazed at her storytelling skills. This time around it's not just about Sam and Grace. There's more...in fact there are four POVs represented in the book. And while some might think that sounds confusing, I have to tell you that it was brilliant to read four POVs. Just brilliant. I won't spoil it for those who haven't read it yet. But I will say that I loved it. And I'm very very picky about wolf legends, in general, which is to say that I'm usually slightly bored by them. Not in this case. Not at all. Maggie, you left me completely out of breath when I turned that last page. In fact, I might have even uttered a \"dammit\" and I'm a mom of three who tries hard not to say these things. I just didn't want it to end. So now begins the wait. The one year long wait until the final installment, Forever, is released. What a very long year that will be. ...more Well, Shiver I thought was a very good book. And in a way, I guess Linger matched my expectations. NOTE: Just because I gave this book three stars doesn't mean I didn't like it, it means that I \"liked it\" according to the rating chart. Just FYI. I got the advanced reader's copy from my teacher, who got it at a confrence. At first, I had no idea what Linger was. Then I found out about Shiver and immeadietly put it on my to-read list and my Christmas list. After I finished Shiver, I-of course-moved Well, Shiver I thought was a very good book. And in a way, I guess Linger matched my expectations. NOTE: Just because I gave this book three stars doesn't mean I didn't like it, it means that I \"liked it\" according to the rating chart. Just FYI. I got the advanced reader's copy from my teacher, who got it at a confrence. At first, I had no idea what Linger was. Then I found out about Shiver and immeadietly put it on my to-read list and my Christmas list. After I finished Shiver, I-of course-moved on to Linger. Linger was an awesome book for many reasons-I thought that the first 100 pages or so were amazing. They were great. They were what I was looking for. The dialouge drew me in, there was great conflict, I loved it, and I loved Rachael's meltdown. Maggie Stiefvater, you are a very talented writer, and everything you write is very descrpitive. That being said, I think that was part of my problem with the book. Towards the end I found that in a way some of the paragraph's were just repeating after the first sentence. I found myself trying to skip paragraphs in order to get to the dialouge. I think that this 350+ page book could have been 240. On another note, I thought there was too many POV changes. And maybe not too many, but they were too frequent. Like, sometimes it'd be on Cole, one of the new wolves, and he'd say something to Grace that would sound like something Sam would say. A lot of times I had to look back at who's POV it said it was so that I could get eveything straight. And the ending. Oh the ending. I swear, I saw it coming since like page 150. It was very predictable, and I felt that Maggie dragged it out. I knew it had to happen, it was just a matter of when. In a way I found myself finishing this book becuase I was currious as to how the book would end for the characters, not because the writing was a spectacular wonder. Same with the next book. I am going to read it becuase I hope it will blow Linger away and I am very currious about Sam, Grace, Isabel, Cole, and surprisingly Olivia, who got like zero air time in this book-which I was slightly dissapointed in. She was in the first few pages and then she quickly dissolved, coming back ever-so-often like the coffee taste in a frapachino. It doesn't last. Also, I thought there was waaaaaaay too much \"romancey\" type of stuff in this book. In the other book, I felt adventure, more with romance on the side. However, in this instalment, I felt like all we were talking about was Sam and the Bristbanes end on end. I mean really, that's not really what I went into this book caring about. Sure, I love and can feel the love between Sam and Grace, but I wasn't even feeling love in this, more like an obsessive thing about making love. It was everywhere. It was rather dissapointing and that being said it was a lot more..........hm........ difficult to get through. So, Maggie, job well done, but I'm crossing my fingers that your next feat will blow this one right out of the water. ...more I am not going to compare Linger with Shiver by saying it was better or worse because really, for me, that's like comparing snowflakes: very different but the same. Linger still had Sam, Grace, Isabel, the cold air, the sad feeling. But it also was different. New character, new point of views, new realizations. As a Shiver fan, I was worried that these two new point of views (Isabel and Cole) would just be painful chapters while waiting for Sam and Grace to talk, but this was not the case. Part o I am not going to compare Linger with Shiver by saying it was better or worse because really, for me, that's like comparing snowflakes: very different but the same. Linger still had Sam, Grace, Isabel, the cold air, the sad feeling. But it also was different. New character, new point of views, new realizations. As a Shiver fan, I was worried that these two new point of views (Isabel and Cole) would just be painful chapters while waiting for Sam and Grace to talk, but this was not the case. Part of this is because Maggie's writing creates a conversation in your head where ten pages feel like one, and when it's over, you look up and realize that it's gone, not real. Another part was because of the characters. Maggie has created real human beings, people who you get to know, love, hate, and care for. A lot of people speculate about who Cole is. Cole is Cole. He is a new character that you have to care for because you get to know him so much. Cole is rather depressing, wanting to simply die or stay wolf forever. I sabel sets her role in this book too. Isabel is one of the strongest characters I have ever read, dealing with tragedy in her own way, not letting people see through her, saying what needs to be said. Even though Isabel has a stone heart, she has an incredibly big one. Grace and Sam have to deal with something both of them can't stop. Parents. Although Grace's parents have never been around, they make her relationship with Sam more difficult, not understanding the circumstances. Linger was able to put me in a spot of pure hopelessness. It goes through dark holes, hits bottom, and you can't get out.Linger's last chapters gave a definition of hopelessness: no one able to make a move, no one able to fix things, to stop them. I kept thinking: this is what it feels like when time slows down and you see a bullet come right at you, but you can't move. Nothing to do. You keep waiting for Superman to come to the rescue but realize that he's not exactly real. Linger was not as...action packed as Shiver, but it was still full of everything it needed and more. Maggie gave us a scientific view of werewolves, gave us 4 completely different humans, gave us love, sorrow, happiness. She gave us Linger!I truly loved it. Thank you Maggie! ...more \u03a5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf!!! \" \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1;\" \" \u038c\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bf\u03cd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\" \u03b5\u03af\u03c0\u03b5 \u03bf \u03a3\u03b1\u03bc. \" \u038c\u03c7\u03b9 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03cd\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2\". \" \u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9. \u0395\u03c3\u03cd \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03ce\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03ac\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u0393\u03ba\u03c1\u03ad\u03b9\u03c2, \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ce \u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c3\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03ba\u03af\u03bd\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c7\u03bf\u03c2, \u03be\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2\". This is the second book in The Wolves of Mercy Falls series, and it is no less magical than the first. Sam is trying to adjust to being a full time human AND the leader of the pack of winter wolves as an early spring thaw occurs. Some of the new members are having problems, and a new theory of how the \"changes\" occur is formed out of desperation as wolves die and Grace seems to be suffering from the same sort of illness they are. The sense of the ticking clock is very prevalent in this book, and This is the second book in The Wolves of Mercy Falls series, and it is no less magical than the first. Sam is trying to adjust to being a full time human AND the leader of the pack of winter wolves as an early spring thaw occurs. Some of the new members are having problems, and a new theory of how the \"changes\" occur is formed out of desperation as wolves die and Grace seems to be suffering from the same sort of illness they are. The sense of the ticking clock is very prevalent in this book, and I admit to forgetting to breathe while reading the last 20 pages. There is a cliff hanging sort of ending that's gonna have ME baying at the moon until part #3 comes out some time in 2011. ...more Well, wasn't that the best. I don't see how it could've been much better - except for if Isabel narrated the whole book. :). I really enjoyed the werewolf science parts - they were awesome! My favourite character remains Isabel. This book marks my 30th review on Goodreads! Every time I read a Maggie book I often stop to think about how beautiful her writing is. It\u2019s gorgeous, even. However\u2026 I liked this book less than it\u2019s precedent to be honest. I was a little disappointed because it didn\u2019t draw me in the way Shiver did. I remember I couldn\u2019t put that book down and Linger put up more of a struggle. I wished I re-read Shiver first, I lost so many details. (thank you for the recap girls). The 4 POV\u2019s were a little confusing sometimes. In the beginning I kept losing Every time I read a Maggie book I often stop to think about how beautiful her writing is. It\u2019s gorgeous, even. However\u2026 I liked this book less than it\u2019s precedent to be honest. I was a little disappointed because it didn\u2019t draw me in the way Shiver did. I remember I couldn\u2019t put that book down and Linger put up more of a struggle. I wished I re-read Shiver first, I lost so many details. (thank you for the recap girls). The 4 POV\u2019s were a little confusing sometimes. In the beginning I kept losing track of whose head I was in. I got the hang of it when I got to know each person\u2019s voice (Sam and Grace\u2019s being the easiest, because they were familiar territory). My biggest annoyance: The parents. Who the hell do they think they are? They keep forgetting they have a teenage daughter living with them, but as soon as they notice Grace has a boyfriend and therefore could be having *gasps* The Sex, they turn into two prison guards from hell. I\u2019m not saying they should tolerate everything Sam and Grace do, because I\u2019m not sure I\u2019d approve of him sneaking up in her room every night if she was my daughter, but puh-lease. Not even putting any effort into getting to know him, not trusting Grace\u2019s judgment, being rude to Sam, forbidding them to see each other because it\u2019s \u2018lust not love\u2019\u2026 Why? What\u2019s the point even? Isn\u2019t that the way it\u2019s supposed to be when you first fall in love? To be consumed by it, to think you can\u2019t breathe without each other? What are they trying to do exactly? Turn her into a nun? Might as well shove a plug up there and lock her in the dungeon because, god forbid, some sweet guy might think unchaste thoughts about their neglected daughter. If that\u2019s the only reason you start paying attention to the third person who lives in your house, who just happens to be your offspring, then I think there is something seriously wrong with your morals. Goddamn hypocrites. Sam is still the sweetest fictional non-gay guy I\u2019ve ever read about. He\u2019s more in touch with his feelings than most 16-year old girls are. I adore him. Cole is\u2026 well Cole. What can I say about him? He\u2019s one of the most self-destructive and at the same time down to earth characters I\u2019ve met in a long time. It\u2019s interesting he\u2019s caught in between wanting to kill himself and wanting to escape himself. He obviously doesn\u2019t have it in him to choose suicide; otherwise he would have done it already. He has easy access to any kind of drug and it wouldn\u2019t take a lot of effort for him to OD on something. Instead he chooses to live inside the skin of a wolf, which is the most bizarre thing. It\u2019s like he cut the wire that connects his brain to his emotions. I wonder what happened. I\u2019m a little afraid Grace will be the one who will draw him out in Forever. I couldn\u2019t stand to see Grace suffer so much so in the end I was both glad and sad she ended up as a wolf. It\u2019s not like we didn\u2019t see it coming, but I wished I didn\u2019t have to witness her vomiting blood for so long before Cole re-infected her. I keep saying this because it\u2019s true: the middle book is always the hardest, because it neither begins nor ends a story. It\u2019s difficult to keep the reader interested and let\u2019s face it; we already know we are going to end up with our heart getting ripped out or something along those lines. Happy endings never seem to do it for us. Forever, it will seem like forever now for you to get here. ...more In a cover letter in the ARC of Shiver that I received a year ago Stiefvater said it best. \u201cWhen I wrote Shiver, I committed the cardinal writerly sin of falling in love with my characters. My objectivity was toast.\u201d I\u2019m afraid that has happened to me as well. Grace, stoic Grace, all hard angles and pragmatic - Sam, lovely Sam, all open wound and broken. When I closed my copy of Shiver I cried a little. It was such a beautiful ending I didn\u2019t want to let them go. Now Stiefvater continues their me In a cover letter in the ARC of Shiver that I received a year ago Stiefvater said it best. \u201cWhen I wrote Shiver, I committed the cardinal writerly sin of falling in love with my characters. My objectivity was toast.\u201d I\u2019m afraid that has happened to me as well. Grace, stoic Grace, all hard angles and pragmatic - Sam, lovely Sam, all open wound and broken. When I closed my copy of Shiver I cried a little. It was such a beautiful ending I didn\u2019t want to let them go. Now Stiefvater continues their mesmerizing love affair but adds several new layers. Grace now deals with a reality that may separate her from Sam permanently while Sam struggles to believe in his cure. Throw in Isabel (whose brother\u2019s death has left her angry and sharp tongued as she refuses to fake her way through a happy life) and Cole (the rock musician with several different personas all of which want, more than anything, to die) and you have a new twist on a story that will thrill fans of Stiefvater\u2019s original creation. Shiver was a weird book for me. I struggled in places to finish it. I wasn\u2019t feeling the mood or the characters... something I can\u2019t explain. But somewhere along the line I fell utterly in love with everything about it\u2026 with Stiefvater\u2019s glorious writing, which is some of the most original sentence and word structuring I have ever read\u2026 with the characters she creates, who feel so real you envision them in the room having the conversation before you\u2026 with the story, so simple and yet so complex. With Linger I have reawakened that passion and let it completely absorb and overwhelm me. I wasn\u2019t 100 pages into the book when I was sobbing openly over the story and believe me, I do not often weep at books. I cried more than once reading \u201cLinger\u201d. Does that make it a better book? Stiefvater accomplishes something lyrically amazing here\u2026 she turns words into weapons, into daggers and into darts\u2026 but she also turns them into soft sighs and smiles and gives you lifts and falls that you cannot comprehend. It would be a shame for me to ruin Linger for you by telling you what happens in it. Just, be assured, that if you are a fan of Stiefvater, or Shiver, or Sam or Grace, or the Wolves of Mercy Falls that you will be an ardent fan of Linger and the possibilities of this simply crushing emotional journey. I\u2019ve been done with the book for a few days and I still can\u2019t extract myself out of the words. Mercy Falls won\u2019t let me go. Again. Blast you Stiefvater, again! How do you manage to wrap yourself around my brain like that? ...more I did not like it, I wasn't interested in the story line or the characters at all. I SHOULDN'T HAVE READ IT . There is no trace here of what made me love Shiver so much. I regret reading this book immensely , to me the story was closed in the first book and there was no need for a continuation. Originally, when I first finished reading Shiver I had no intention of reading Linger (or any other book of the series for that matter), I was flawlessly happy and content with how it ended, but then I rea I did not like it, I wasn't interested in the story line or the characters at all. I SHOULDN'T HAVE READ IT . There is no trace here of what made me love Shiver so much. I regret reading this book immensely , to me the story was closed in the first book and there was no need for a continuation. Originally, when I first finished reading Shiver I had no intention of reading Linger (or any other book of the series for that matter), I was flawlessly happy and content with how it ended, but then I read some great reviews about the sequel and I went for it. I DEEPLY REGRET IT NOW. I loved Shiver and exactly as I feared, adding another installment has sucked all the magic out of it . What a DISAPPOINTMENT ! Linger is not only completely unnecessary, is also a huge detriment to Shiver . What a way of ruining things, she had a perfectly lovely and enthralling story and she went and crushed it , urgh! It makes me so mad! I wish I had never read this book. . ...more 2.5 Stars! I didn't enjoy this book as much as the first one, and I was annoyed by essentially all the characters, especially Grace and her parents. Will I read the final book? Undecided. For now I'm moving on. Stief-fever. Come at me Book III It seems a long time ago now that I first read Shiver --the first book in the Wolves of Mercy Falls trilogy. But looking back I started it on the plane ride to BEA and finished it there in the conference center, fingers gripping the cover tightly, while sitting on the floor in one of the many autograph lines. And now it's May again and BEA is right around the corner and I emerge from my recent and nasty reading slump stupor to find a copy of LINGER sitting in my mailbox like a glove thrown down i It seems a long time ago now that I first read Shiver --the first book in the Wolves of Mercy Falls trilogy. But looking back I started it on the plane ride to BEA and finished it there in the conference center, fingers gripping the cover tightly, while sitting on the floor in one of the many autograph lines. And now it's May again and BEA is right around the corner and I emerge from my recent and nasty reading slump stupor to find a copy of LINGER sitting in my mailbox like a glove thrown down in the dirt. \"I will be the one to pull you out,\" it whispers to me slyly. \"Just open me up and take a sip. I promise--one sip is all it will take.\" And I look at it with fear and longing written all over my face. \"You promise?\" I ask intently. \"Because it's been a long walk in the cold and I'm not sure I can take another disappointment.\" \"Just open me up,\" it says, confidence written all over its cover. And so I do. And everything else falls away. Sam and Grace are trying to take up the reins of their lives again after the cataclysmic events of the previous winter. Sam is human. Despite the lingering cold as spring grows ever closer, he will not be changing into a wolf. Whatever it was that caused it has been seemingly eradicated and suddenly he has an entire lifetime stretching out ahead of him. And Grace is all set to share that life with him, to make plans, to pick colleges, to get away from her disapproving parents as soon as possible. But their cautious attempts to move forward are curtailed when a new wolf arrives in town--the fruits of Beck's final act as pack protector. It's immediately clear that something is very off about Cole, but Sam can't quite put his finger on what. And he doesn't have much time to dedicate to figuring out his new charge (of sorts) as Grace is fighting her own battle with a nameless threat and it feels like she's drifting farther and farther away with every day. Meanwhile, Isabel is thrashing around the way only Isabel can. Unable to come to terms with her brother's death and certain as certain that Sam and Grace are unwittingly headed for disaster, Isabel finds herself playing the voice of reason. And as she seems to literally run across Cole at every turn, these interactions push her closer and closer to finding out his secret and the real explanation behind Grace's strained smiles and uneasy silences. I was somewhat concerned about reading LINGER. It was definitely not the writing that concerned me, because I adore Maggie Stiefvater 's elegant prose. And it was not the characters, because any time spent with Sam and Grace (and Isabel) is time well spent. But I loved how Shiver ended. It was perfect. And I wondered where exactly things could go from there, you know? What direction their story could take that wouldn't feel forced. With so many series lately, it feels like they're being kept alive on life support. And I was worried about the fragile beauty of where things ended and having that peace ruined. But I should have known better. I should have had more faith. From here on out there will be no doubt. There will be no fear. Because LINGER is that most rare and wonderful of books--an absolutely gorgeous, riveting sequel. It made good on all its promises. I was sucked out of the slump I was in within the handful of seconds it took me to read the first page. There are so many things to love about this book. But I have to mention, first and foremost, the writing. It washes over you in waves of lyrical longing and puts other, lesser storytelling to shame. A favorite passage early on (from my uncorrected ARC): \u2022Sam\u2022 Later, I thought of the things I could have added to the list of resolutions, things I'd wanted back before I realized what being a wolf meant for my future. Things like Write a novel and Find a band and Get a degree in obscure poetry in translation and Travel the world . It felt indulgent and fanciful to be considering those things now after reminding myself for so long that they were impossible. I tried to imagine myself filling out a college application. Writing a synopsis. Tacking a sign saying DRUMMERS WANTED on the corkboard opposite Beck's post office box. The words danced in my head, dazzling in their sudden nearness. I wanted to add them to my index card of resolutions, but I just . . . couldn't. That night, while Grace showered, I got out the card and looked at it again. And I wrote: Believe in my cure. I actually felt lighter the further I read, despite the gravity and sense of impending doom that pervades the text. But it is so unbelievably refreshing to be buoyed up by the astonishing turns of phrase rather than bogged down by lackluster wordsmithing. I would read Maggie Stiefvater 's cereal box copy. But happily, I shall never be forced to do so as her characters and plot lines are both sympathetic and nuanced. The woman positively excels at young male protagonists. Like James in Ballad: The Gathering of Faerie , Sam is so very endearing, if in a much less angsty and overt way. His breathtaking blend of maturity and vulnerability tugs at my heartstrings and the strength of his relationship with Grace is true and unswerving. I'm also delighted to report that the supporting characters Isabel and Cole are no less outstanding. In fact, I may have been most captivated by Cole's sections, as the narrative is split between the four of them. His depth of damage mixed with the faintest glimmer of hope enriched the whole for me and I loved watching the four so distinct threads weave together by the inevitable climax. I was consumed by LINGER, loved it even more than its predecessor, and am positively thrumming with excitement for Forever --the final installment in the Wolves of Mercy Falls trilogy. LINGER is due out July 20th. Reading order: Shiver , LINGER ...more<---C>Shelby</---C>", "Title": "Linger"},
