{"Comments": "The <---C>Harold Fry</---C> that leaves to mail a letter to his dying friend is drained by life, full of self-loathing and incapable of mending his ruined marriage. \u2018For years they had been in a place where language had no significance\u2019. He just keeps walking in the belief that his journey will save her life. I wanted to shout \u201ckeep going Harold!\u201d, to remind him of the adage \u2018absence makes the heart grow fonder\u2019 because Harold\u2019s journey was testament to its truth. A journey just as much about having the cour The Harold Fry that leaves to mail a letter to his dying friend is drained by life, full of self-loathing and incapable of mending his ruined marriage. \u2018For years they had been in a place where language had no significance\u2019. He just keeps walking in the belief that his journey will save her life. I wanted to shout \u201ckeep going Harold!\u201d, to remind him of the adage \u2018absence makes the heart grow fonder\u2019 because Harold\u2019s journey was testament to its truth. A journey just as much about having the courage to reflect back as about going forward. Solitude forces him to open the door to his personal demons. Simply walking requires behavior that\u2019s totally out of character; an ability to connect with both nature & mankind. He draws the strength to keep going from his new found awareness of nature's intricate beauty. The humanity of random strangers, those \u2018great unwashed\u2019 he\u2019s spent a lifetime tuning out, offer insight and comfort. Harold had abided by the British unspoken rule not to ask for help,<---M> yet it is constantly offered</---M>, and with such civility! I loved this book on so many levels. It\u2019s unapologetically sentimental though not cloyingly so. It\u2019s a great adult love story that deals unflinchingly with the challenges of lifelong commitment. It focuses on the value of friendship, humility, self-forgiveness and human kindness. And it\u2019s a tremendous 1st novel which I\u2019d love to see performed on stage; this would make for a fabulous play. \u201cit never ceases to amaze me how difficult the things that are supposed to be instinctive really are\u201d ...more Found at The Sunday Edition : <+++>The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry</+++> is the story of one man's faith in his feet. (OneEighteen/photopin) \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 So well narrated by the wonderful Jim Broadbent. If you'd like to hear a bit of it, go here and click on the pod casts.<---F> It touched my heart</---F>. Jim Broadbent North Devon coastline Clovelly, North Devon Taunton, U.K. You can see the paving stones. Walled gardens in Taunton. Glastonbury England - The Resting place of the Legendary King Arthur Mendip Hills horse chestnut Eu Found at The Sunday Edition : <+++>The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry</+++> is the story of one man's faith in his feet. (OneEighteen/photopin) \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 So well narrated by the wonderful Jim Broadbent. If you'd like to hear a bit of it, go here and click on the pod casts. It touched my heart. Jim Broadbent North Devon coastline Clovelly, North Devon Taunton, U.K. You can see the paving stones. Walled gardens in Taunton. Glastonbury England - The Resting place of the Legendary King Arthur Mendip Hills horse chestnut European Robin Among Apple Blossoms England. Posted by PictureGirl. bluebells along the path in England Bath, England Sheep in Cotswold Stratford Berwick Upon Tweed Northumberland England Lindisfarne Castle, Holy Island, Berwick upon Tweed, England - A beautiful romantic 15th century castle accessible from the mainland through a causeway during low tide. ...more Three star review has moved to Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud. But really, there are better ways to spend your eyeblinks than reading this mawkish treacle. stil mulling this one. sometimes i really liked it and other moments i was...a little bored. there was definitely an overuse of \"put one foot in front of the other\" that verged on becoming a drinking game. the premise of the story is lovely but it did get a bit schlocky and mitch albom-y for my tastes. mentions of both facebook and twitter in the book were curious. edited to add (pasted in from my comment below, in case people don't read the comments here): you know, the further i get from reading stil mulling this one. sometimes i really liked it and other moments i was...a little bored. there was definitely an overuse of \"put one foot in front of the other\" that verged on becoming a drinking game. the premise of the story is lovely but it did get a bit schlocky and mitch albom-y for my tastes. mentions of both facebook and twitter in the book were curious. edited to add (pasted in from my comment below, in case people don't read the comments here): you know, the further i get from reading this book, the more it is sitting with me in a way that is far deeper than i originally stated. it's an introspective story and deals with a lot of issues quietly - but i have been thinking about the story off and on for the last several days. i think it would make for a really good in-person book club discussion. i had the chance to meet joyce and hear her read and talk about the book. she's a lovely woman and believes so strongly in harold that you can't help but wish the very best for both of them. as far as the booker: it would be very interesting if she/it won. it's not the typical book for booker - it's a simple & sentimental story. but, it's touching a chord with many, many people. that shouldn't sway the judges though. it's a tremendous achievement to have accomplished a longlist spot with a first novel. amazing!! ...more Harold Fry has never done the unexpected, having spent the last 65 years living a quiet sheltered life. Retired for the last six months Harold shaves each morning and puts on a tie only to sit in the same chair with nowhere to go as his wife Maureen silently cleans. One day he recieves a letter from an woman from his past who informs him she is dying. Harold pens his reply only to be disappointed by his response so he makes a snap decision to walk across England from Kingsbridge to Berwick Upton Harold Fry has never done the unexpected, having spent the last 65 years living a quiet sheltered life. Retired for the last six months Harold shaves each morning and puts on a tie only to sit in the same chair with nowhere to go as his wife Maureen silently cleans. One day he recieves a letter from an woman from his past who informs him she is dying. Harold pens his reply only to be disappointed by his response so he makes a snap decision to walk across England from Kingsbridge to Berwick Upton Tweed to save her. With nothing but the clothes he is wearing and the small supplies he buys along the way Harold slowly makes his way across the country. Along the way Harold will initially be critical of himself as he sees himself alone in the world thanks to uncertainty that he had all throughout his life from a young boy, a father to David and then with a wife he no longer communicates with. It's only when he begins going out of his comfort zone by talking to others along the way that he soon discovers the sad and beautiful truth that he is not alone and there are many people just like him that are struggling to put one foot infront of the other. But for all the profound sorrow Harold encounters this is not a sad read. Rather it suggest that new beginnings can always be found and it is never to late to do something extroidinary. British playwright <---A>Rachel Joyce</---A>s first novel is an endearing debut full of emotion. I found myself riding all the emotions with Harold and was willing him on all the way. At the heart of this is a story of a simple man, a threadbare marriage and a fractured country. All of this makes for an unforgettable and thoughtful story. Do yourself a favour and take a walk with Harold a simple man who will get into your heart and leave you with a smile from ear to ear. ...more I have just browsed through a bunch of reviews that are literally glowing with praise, so I feel rather embarrassed that I cannot be more enthused about this novel. I was really taken in by the premise and rather enjoyed the beginning of the book, probably until celebrity, hype and disciples befall Harold. From that point on, I started to find the book predictable, if not a little trite even. I also think that while I have nothing against a good dose of pathos, this may have bordered on the overdo I have just browsed through a bunch of reviews that are literally glowing with praise, so I feel rather embarrassed that I cannot be more enthused about this novel. I was really taken in by the premise and rather enjoyed the beginning of the book, probably until celebrity, hype and disciples befall Harold. From that point on, I started to find the book predictable, if not a little trite even. I also think that while I have nothing against a good dose of pathos, this may have bordered on the overdose. I am very sorry I feel this way, but I do, but I do... ...more I just finished this lovely book, and I'm never going to forget it. To those who say nobody wants to read about \"old people\", I'd say, read this book. The fact is, as long as you're alive, you should be open to growth and change, right? But how many of us stop growing after middle age? We find a formula that works and we stick with it, missing opportunities to experience joyous awakening. Maybe we start saying things like, \"I'm too old to do X any more.\" And we shut down, close off. We fail to n I just finished this lovely book, and I'm never going to forget it. To those who say nobody wants to read about \"old people\", I'd say, read this book. The fact is, as long as you're alive, you should be open to growth and change, right? But how many of us stop growing after middle age? We find a formula that works and we stick with it, missing opportunities to experience joyous awakening. Maybe we start saying things like, \"I'm too old to do X any more.\" And we shut down, close off. We fail to notice the continuing wonder and miracle of life. In this story, a couple in their 60s have made their peace, of sorts, following a horrific event in middle age. They live together, married in name only, settling for having another person in proximity (to take out the trash. To do the laundry. She snaps at him, he looks away.) The author conveys emotion so skillfully, not overwriting by one syllable. Then, something happens, and the husband, Harold, begins a journey both mental and actual - he sets off on a walk from the south of Great Britain to a point 500 miles north. I won't tell you if he makes it or what happens, but I will say that the story was so good, I put it in a class with Gilead by Marilynne Robinson. This author, Rachel Joyce, has achieved this miracle: she describes the sweetness and difficulty of life in such a way that you can't separate the two, and are a better person for having realized this fact. Many thanks to Ms. Joyce for this winner. ...more What to say about The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry ; a lovely read, a phenomenal book, exceptional and captivating. How I lingered over this book; read it slowly to truly savour and appreciate the story. The author doesn't try to impress you with pretentious words nor does she bamboozle you with a convoluted plot. It's an unembellished story. The 'hero' is not good-looking or rich; he's a simple man who embarks on the journey of a lifetime. I loved the absolute clarity of foresight into the What to say about The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry ; a lovely read, a phenomenal book, exceptional and captivating. How I lingered over this book; read it slowly to truly savour and appreciate the story. The author doesn't try to impress you with pretentious words nor does she bamboozle you with a convoluted plot. It's an unembellished story. The 'hero' is not good-looking or rich; he's a simple man who embarks on the journey of a lifetime. I loved the absolute clarity of foresight into the mind and heart of a very ordinary man. Harold is an unobtrusive, tentative and unassuming person; he has been that way all his life. Now in his 60's, he is filled with regret; feels loss about situations he is no longer able to change. Since his retirement a few months prior, he has done virtually nothing but sit, much to the chagrin of his wife Maureen. Harold and Maureen's relationship has, over time, become one of simply sharing a house; rarely speaking and no longer even sharing a bed. The portrayal of their life together filled me with sorrow; two people in their 60's living together but each in a terrible aloneness. One ordinary day, he receives a letter from an old work colleague, Queenie, who is in a hospice. He sets off to post his reply but upon reaching the post box, realises that a letter is simply not enough. Queenie has been a friend, someone who stood up in defence of him; Harold feels that as Queenie had once 'saved' him, now he will save her. So he decides to walk to visit Queenie. It is indeed a pilgrimage; a walk of faith. He truly believes with all his heart and soul that his walking will save her. Each day he walks will be one day longer that she lives. I've been in Harold's position albeit with a loved one but I didn't walk; I cleaned. So I understand Harold's mission. I know just where he is coming from. The belief Harold has in his walk is infectious; as I read on, I found a little voice in my head saying in my head: 'I hope she lives, I hope she lives' . Although his walk is basically a solitary one, he has some, mostly, wonderful encounters with strangers. He feels their tenderness towards him and as he realises \"he feels his own tenderness towards them\u201d . For the first time, \u201che realises that we are all alone, just putting one foot in front of the other\u201d . But a solitary walk from one end of England to the other gives much time for retrospect. There are contemplations on his life with Maureen, painful reflections on his relationship with their son David and of course thoughts of Queenie. And, with no intent on his behalf, he becomes a minor celebrity: as he encounters people and towns, they cheer and barrack him on. This spurs him on with renewed vigour. Having said that this is a lovely read, I will add that I found the last couple of chapters a bit harrowing: the letter to The Girl at the Garage and what he finds at the hospice particularly so. The ending is bitter-sweet; but I'm glad it was. I smiled in places and I cried in others; a big lump sat in my throat for the last ten or so pages. Ultimately, Harold loses something but also finds something else that he has longed for. Rachel Joyce doesn't offer a warm, fuzzy read; your spirits will soar and they will plummet. If you're going to read anything, then read this wonderful book . Who knows, maybe we could all use a pilgrimage of our own? ...more I fear I am heartless. Some people I respect as readers give this book five stars and I just can't. Basically, it is about a man taking a walk. Beginning, middle, end. He gets bad news about an old friend and just starts walking, wearing the wrong kind of shoes and without bringing his 'mobile.' Most of the book is about regret and finding his way back to what matters. So, I get that, but it didn't poke through my tough exterior, I guess. You have my permission to call me heartless. I listened to t I fear I am heartless. Some people I respect as readers give this book five stars and I just can't. Basically, it is about a man taking a walk. Beginning, middle, end. He gets bad news about an old friend and just starts walking, wearing the wrong kind of shoes and without bringing his 'mobile.' Most of the book is about regret and finding his way back to what matters. So, I get that, but it didn't poke through my tough exterior, I guess. You have my permission to call me heartless. I listened to the audio, which may be partly to blame for the plodding pace to the book. Still, Jim Broadbent was a great reader. I shall have to try to find him reading something else! This book was on the longlist for the Booker, but didn't make the shortlist. One book that did is also about a walk, but has far more complexity and emotional range. I'd recommend it entirely. ( The Lighthouse ) I'm noticing that lately, books about humdrummity are really getting to me. I need some profundity and depth, or lacking that, some interesting characters with interesting lives. Some of Harold's observations: \"Life was very different when you walked through it.\" \"Life is made up of people putting one foot in front of the other.\" \"Nobody's frightening, if you stop and listen.\" ...more \" Harold could no longer pass a stranger without acknowledging the truth that everyone was the same, and also unique; and that this was the dilemma of being human .\" I just finished this book on New Year's Eve, and I'm so happy I did, because this is a book about new beginnings, even the ones begun in the twilight of our lives. I have to begin by being perfectly honest which is, I feel, not only in keeping with the spirit of this book, but also the way that Harold would have wanted it. I feel like a \" Harold could no longer pass a stranger without acknowledging the truth that everyone was the same, and also unique; and that this was the dilemma of being human .\" I just finished this book on New Year's Eve, and I'm so happy I did, because this is a book about new beginnings, even the ones begun in the twilight of our lives. I have to begin by being perfectly honest which is, I feel, not only in keeping with the spirit of this book, but also the way that Harold would have wanted it. I feel like after what he's been through and having proved himself to be more than ordinarily resilient, that Harold can take the truth. For a while this book really irritated me. It wasn't that I found the characters unbelievable--I actually found them all to be very real and human. It wasn't the setting, the writing, or the pacing of the story-telling. It was the actual walking, or, as the title calls it--the pilgrimage. For the longest time I just didn't understand why Harold didn't hitch a ride, take a bus, hop a train or even get on a horse. The walk to me seemed impractible, unfeasible, and completely unrealistic. It seemed like a mere plot gimmick--hey! I'll write a book about a guy who decides to walk. Another image I couldn't get out of my head as much as I wanted to (once I had thought of it it was just THERE--like a gnawing little itch) was that of another walking (running, actually) literary/film character...Forest Gump. I just kept thinking...this story has been told before...we've seen this. He just starts walking and he doesn't stop. People join in along the way. He becomes famous. He runs, and it isn't about the destination, it's about the journey. Been there, seen that. But somewhere toward the end, this author really pulled this story together for me. There is an effective twist, that was the most heartbreaking part of the story for me, that made me realize Harold had been through circumstances that might render a man quite mad...mad enough to start walking and not stop, and all of a sudden his walk became a lot more understandable and a lot more feasible. I also came to better terms with the metaphorical ramifications of Harold's walk and I quit being so dang literal and worrying about Harold sleeping out on the highway with the foxes without bathing, and I started looking more inward to Harold and his tortured soul. Harold's interaction with Queenie, near the end, is one of the most chilling encounters I have read in fiction. But it was so real, and so true, and so meaningful, I fell for the book all at once, right there at its very close. So if someone asked me what I liked about Harold Frye doing all that walking or what I got from reading about Harold and the circumstances that shaped him until he finally was able to throw them all off there on the side of England's highways...I would first say that I think the author meant for us to realize how we all carry our own particular burdens. That is rather obvious in the characters that Harold encounters and how they had their own unique crosses to bear. \" It must be the same all over England. People were buying milk or filling their cars with petrol, or even posting letters. And what no one else knew was the appalling weight of the thing they were carrying inside .\" But I would also say that I was reminded that it's never too late to start over. That we all have to come face to face with our ghosts, and that doesn't happen on our own time. It happens on it's on natural course undetermined by us (much like all aspects of our lives). I am reminded of the courage it takes to face our demons, and how we cannot begin to live fully, openly, or honestly until we have looked them dead in the eyes, no matter how difficult or implausible the journey is that takes us to meet them. ...more \u201cThe people he met, the places he passed, were all steps in his journey, and he kept a place inside his heart for each of them.\u201d This was such a powerful book! I'm so glad I took the time to read it. I loved the writing style! BRILLIANT! I loved the purity and spare beauty of this sad but uplifting tale. At first I wondered how I could possibly get involved in this apparently absurd story. A retired salesman for a brewery receives a letter of goodbye from an old friend, Queenie, who is dying of cancer, and, on the way to the mailbox with a return reply, ends up setting out on a 500 mile walk to visit her. But it was a quick read and full of pleasant surprises and many special moments where the clouds of life\u2019s travails and burie I loved the purity and spare beauty of this sad but uplifting tale. At first I wondered how I could possibly get involved in this apparently absurd story. A retired salesman for a brewery receives a letter of goodbye from an old friend, Queenie, who is dying of cancer, and, on the way to the mailbox with a return reply, ends up setting out on a 500 mile walk to visit her. But it was a quick read and full of pleasant surprises and many special moments where the clouds of life\u2019s travails and buried mistakes clear away for sunlit visions of redemption and truth. Part of Harold\u2019s impetus comes from a stranger at a gas station who gives him the idea that faith and positive thinking can cure cancer. The other push is \u201cthat he wasn\u2019t so much walking to Queenie as away from himself.\u201d He has been shut down emotionally for a long time, with no apparent pathway to bring life back to his marriage or relieve his sense of failure over the raising of his son. I liked how his journey begins to get some flow out of the frozen river of his life: In walking, he freed the past that he had spent twenty years seeking to avoid, and now it chattered and played through his head with a wild energy that was his own. He no longer saw distance in terms of miles. He measured it with his remembering. When strangers he encounters on the way open up to him about secrets in their lives, I was bowled away by the perspectives it renders, as illustrated here: He was a chap like himself, with a unique pain; and yet there would be no knowing that if you passed him in the street, or sat opposite him in a caf\u00e9 and didn\u2019t share his teacake. Harold pictured the gentleman on a station platform, smart in his suit, looking no different from anyone else. It must be the same all over England. People were buying milk, or filling their cars with petrol, or even posting letters. And what no one else knew was the appalling weight of the thing they were carrying inside. The inhuman effort it took sometimes to be normal, and a part of things that appeared both easy and everyday. The loneliness of that. There are a lot of hardships on Harold\u2019s journey, which often cast doubt on his new sense of purpose: Harold\u2019s mind grew limpid, and his body melted. Rain began to patter on the roof and against the tarpaulin, but it was a gentle sound, full of patience, like Maureen singing David to sleep when he was little. When the sound stopped he missed it, as of it had become part of what he knew. He felt there was no longer anything substantial between himself and the earth and the sky. Joyce seems effortlessly eloquent in capturing feelings we all have about our insignificance: His footprints, however firm, would be washed away by rain. It was as if he had never been in any of the places he had been, or met the strangers he had met. He looked behind, and already there was no trace, no sign of him anywhere. There is more to the story than Harold\u2019s walk, which would be a spoiler to reveal. A good part of the narrative deals with Maureen\u2019s reaction to Harold\u2019s mission, and there is slow unfolding of the meaning Harold\u2019s relationship to Queenie, an accountant who worked at the brewery twenty years before. I was quite moved by the resolution of the tale. I compare the experience of this read with the revelations of the power of secret grief in Harding\u2019s Tinkers . I also find a nice parallel of outward and inward journeys as portrayed on a grander scale in Matthiessen\u2019s The Snow Leopard . Others have pointed out a similarity in form of Harold\u2019s walk with the running spree of Forrest Gump as an outlet for his inability to digest a tragedy in his life. Despite these similarities, Joyce\u2019s rendering of the sweetness and sadness of Harold\u2019s story stands out for me as brilliant and fresh. ...more What the heck, Goodreads?? What the HECK? Though I did not finish this, I feel that is proof enough of this book's ridiculousness. Maybe I am all the more indignant because I was all, hey, check it out, it got this crazy good rating, and yay, my library managed to get it before I got too old to read, and isn't goodreads amazing because wow it alerts me to wonderful books and SO I DON'T HAVE TO READ BAD ONES ANYMORE EXCEPT THIS TIME I STILL DID! What is it with you people? I mean seriously?? Let's What the heck, Goodreads?? What the HECK? Though I did not finish this, I feel that is proof enough of this book's ridiculousness. Maybe I am all the more indignant because I was all, hey, check it out, it got this crazy good rating, and yay, my library managed to get it before I got too old to read, and isn't goodreads amazing because wow it alerts me to wonderful books and SO I DON'T HAVE TO READ BAD ONES ANYMORE EXCEPT THIS TIME I STILL DID! What is it with you people? I mean seriously?? Let's start with the writing. We have a nine year old's perception of old people, and small town life, and cancer. The wife is an irritated, fussy woman. The husband is dottering and boring. \"It was small as an apology.\" Hmmm?? Have you ever apologized? It ain't small I'll tell you that. Similes for that sake of similes, I HATE that. \"Harold tried to cross the street to avoid (the mailbox) but there it was.\" There it was, indeed. Wow, really? Even though you crossed the street? You mean that didn't work? Then we have the \"plot.\" He discovers an old friend has cancer and so HE WILL WALK THE LOTS OF MILES TO SEE HER BECAUSE HE THINKS THIS WILL MAKE HER LIVE??? SHE IS IN FREAKING HOSPICE! Keep reading! Says the offended goodreads rater. You never know! Yeah but sometimes you do. ...more Attention all yacht shoe wearers! Please unite for this wonderfully heartwarming, sometimes heartbreaking tale of loss, sorrow and redemption. *REVIEW CONTAINS NO SPOILERS* For reasons unimaginable, some (ahem!) fair-minded readers have offered this cleverly-crafted book an oh-so-generous one star, out of five! Seriously, WTF? It may be true that TUPOHF is more likely to be better-received by mature readers and would also appeal to Anglophiles who are the wrong side of forty (effectively old gits, Attention all yacht shoe wearers! Please unite for this wonderfully heartwarming, sometimes heartbreaking tale of loss, sorrow and redemption. *REVIEW CONTAINS NO SPOILERS* For reasons unimaginable, some (ahem!) fair-minded readers have offered this cleverly-crafted book an oh-so-generous one star, out of five! Seriously, WTF? It may be true that TUPOHF is more likely to be better-received by mature readers and would also appeal to Anglophiles who are the wrong side of forty (effectively old gits, similar to myself), but come on! Unworldly Englishman, Harold Fry, a retired brewery salesman pops out to post a sympathy letter to an old work colleague (Queenie), who resides 627 miles away. But instead of doing this, he spontaneously heads off in her faraway direction, wearing clothes that are better-suited for a trip to the local garden centre. In an unconscious attempt to exorcise his own demons, his accidental journey somehow becomes an inspirational, perhaps heroic, pilgrimage. There is something delightfully Quixotic about his unrealistic quest, and readers of this story will find themselves walking with him, in spirit, each painful step of the way. The crudeness of modernity and the grunge of the great outdoors are the antithesis of his usually disciplined existence; the fractiousness of other members of society offers a comedic contrast to Harold's unfailing innocence. Joyce optimistically recognises the kindness of strangers, who are happy to contribute to a good cause; although (because I am English) I would have at least expected a box of KFC bones to have been hurled at his head from a passing car, or for a farmer to have gurgled, \"Get off my land!\" This tenderly-written novel is the best I've read all year: it will cause you to chuckle from time to time, and there's a good chance it will bring a tear to your eye. So, if raw life experiences have left you mature beyond your years, or if you're a wrinkled old coffin-dodger, about to pop your clogs, this might be right up your street! And please abandon whatever it is you're reading. Release your inner Harold and join his pilgrimage! *Immediately after reading this, if you enjoyed Harold's pilgrimage, please read its companion book: The Love Song of Miss Queenie Hennessy * ...more Where to next Sancho? Harold Fry is definitely an unlikely hero. He would also have easily been voted \u2018least likely to go on a spiritual quest\u2019. This makes him perfect for this story because it\u2019s about unlikely thoughts, friendships, marriages, what have you. Harold\u2019s quest begins with a letter from a former co-worker he thinks of fondly. They\u2019ve shared a pivotal moment in Harold\u2019s life. He reads the letter soon after he retires from said job and he reads it in front of his continually carping wi Where to next Sancho? Harold Fry is definitely an unlikely hero. He would also have easily been voted \u2018least likely to go on a spiritual quest\u2019. This makes him perfect for this story because it\u2019s about unlikely thoughts, friendships, marriages, what have you. Harold\u2019s quest begins with a letter from a former co-worker he thinks of fondly. They\u2019ve shared a pivotal moment in Harold\u2019s life. He reads the letter soon after he retires from said job and he reads it in front of his continually carping wife, Maureen. Harold doesn\u2019t even mean to go on a quest. He scribbles some benign well wishes on a card to his dying co-worker and sets out to mail it and somewhere along that mini quest his journey becomes epic as he decides to walk to her hospice with a vague belief that she\u2019ll HAVE to wait to die until he gets to her. His steps will heal her. He meets many kind, odd, and not so kind people along the way. Mostly he gets caught in his head and in his not so perfect past. He sometimes spins in circles, he has moments of clarity, epiphanies. Usually he just tries to put one foot in front of the other. Even this is a challenge when he realizes he\u2019s going the wrong direction or in loops. There is a place in the book where I was afraid things were going to go down an ordinary path. I felt let down. Then Joyce showed the reason she teased us with that route. I loved the humor in \u201cThe Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry\u201d. I loved the spiritual quest even more. ...more 4.4\u2605 An allegorical adventure that speaks to the reader gently, quietly, and personally. Harold\u2019s odyssey if you will in Forrest Gump fashion taking it one day at a time. Burdened by a life where he has ended up feeling like nothing he did mattered, in a souless marriage that appears to be well past its expiration date, Harold has a destination in mind but of course it\u2019s all about the journey getting there. Haunted by buried memories and words left unsaid he takes a first literal step and then man 4.4\u2605 An allegorical adventure that speaks to the reader gently, quietly, and personally. Harold\u2019s odyssey if you will in Forrest Gump fashion taking it one day at a time. Burdened by a life where he has ended up feeling like nothing he did mattered, in a souless marriage that appears to be well past its expiration date, Harold has a destination in mind but of course it\u2019s all about the journey getting there. Haunted by buried memories and words left unsaid he takes a first literal step and then many more on a quest to right one of his many wrongs and make a difference before it\u2019s too late. For me it was like getting lost in an adult fairy tale and I loved suspending reality for two days and following along as a pilgrim watching the progress. I would have liked to read this one for book club and some good discussion. If he was on GR I would recommend this one to the Dalai Lama. \"Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible.\" \u2665\ufe0e ...more I won't be pursuing this read. After the first few chapters, the book and I decided to sit down and seriously talk about where this read was headed. The conversation went something like this: ME: Look, I don't mean to appear impatient, ok, I know you're doing your best to hold my attention in this read, but I have to admit to you, and I hope you can understand that this is in no way an indictement of the style or structure, but the whole plot feels rather contrived. TUPOHF: Where is this headed? A I won't be pursuing this read. After the first few chapters, the book and I decided to sit down and seriously talk about where this read was headed. The conversation went something like this: ME: Look, I don't mean to appear impatient, ok, I know you're doing your best to hold my attention in this read, but I have to admit to you, and I hope you can understand that this is in no way an indictement of the style or structure, but the whole plot feels rather contrived. TUPOHF: Where is this headed? Are you saying you're going to quit reading? ME: Whoah! Let's not jump to any conclusions, the whole goal of this discussion is just to figure out where we stand, and where we're headed, and if we want to go there and how much we're prepared to invest in terms of time and cognitive load... TUPOHF: Look, there are important revelations ahead for our main character Harold Fry, he's going to meet all these ordinary people who are just shock-full of life-changing, earth-moving wisdom... ME: Harold Fry. Let's start with him. I'm finding the character a little wooden, if you'll forgive the expression, but isn't the retiree who always avoided the limelight and just did his best to do his duty while resisting escapist urges a little overdone? Really, there are no Harold Frys in the real world, he's just a straw-man waiting to be blown over. TUPOHF: Yes, of course, and so much will be revealed later, because the woman dying of cancer who wrote to let him know did something for him years ago, something extremely helpful. ME: You've mentionned that. And, having mentionned it, there was no reason to withhold what it was she did for Harold. So what is it? TUPOHF: Can't say. It's a huge surprise. ME: This is blackmail. TUPOHF: Lots of other people would be glad to read me. ME: Maybe so, but I have a lot of books I need to get to, it's not that I'm not enjoying the read, and really I'm quite interested in characters who deviate from the regular course of things to seize meaning for their existence and also characters who are on the verge of dying because only when there's no time left do the important things become so clearly sallient. But the course appears predetermined. It feels a little preachy, to be perfectly honest. TUPOHF: I can only recommend you continue the read. The wisdom of all these people he meets on the road will blow your socks off. ME: I don't require sock-blowing to get into a story... TUPOHF: Just blow your socks off. Mostly poor, hardworking female characters who take the time to articulate to a perfect stranger these golden nuggets of folk wisdom, like chicken mcnuggets of the soul. Most of the male characters are silly, linear thinkers always in a rush through life, always looking at their watches... ME: Oh my, look at the time. No really, I won't be finishing this read. ...more There is only one book that has ever made me cry. That book is The Kite Runner. I had always wondered if I would ever read another book that would make me cry and if so, which book would it be? Harold Fry\u2026 you made me cry and cry and cry and then when I thought I was finished crying\u2026you made me cry again. Harold Fry, now retired, receives a letter from an old friend and work colleague, Queenie Hennessy. Queenie, who hasn\u2019t seen Harold for over twenty years, is saying goodbye. So begins Harold\u2019s j There is only one book that has ever made me cry. That book is The Kite Runner. I had always wondered if I would ever read another book that would make me cry and if so, which book would it be? Harold Fry\u2026 you made me cry and cry and cry and then when I thought I was finished crying\u2026you made me cry again. Harold Fry, now retired, receives a letter from an old friend and work colleague, Queenie Hennessy. Queenie, who hasn\u2019t seen Harold for over twenty years, is saying goodbye. So begins Harold\u2019s journey. A journey which will reconcile Harold with his future and a journey which will bring him back to his past. This book examines so many themes; life, relationships, marriage, loss, love, characters, regrets, friendships, those small acts of kindness that are significant from both strangers and friends, the courage and fears we all experience in our everyday lives and the difficulties that can arise when we are unable to or don\u2019t know how to express our thoughts and feelings. This debut novel by Rachel Joyce is quite simply superb and wonderful in every respect. There is nothing I can find fault with. From the wonderful array of interesting characters in the book, the simple yet beautiful prose, the perfect pacing of the story, the delicate and vivid imagery, to the absolute thought provoking, sentimental, poignant and emotional feelings that the story aroused throughout. This is a story which will pull at your heart strings many times, in so many ways. It is a story that will remain with you long after you have finished reading it. I adored this book and it is definitely one of my top five reads for 2012. I have great pleasure adding this to my five star favourite shelf. It is well, well deserved. ...more Sweet and wonderful story... Harold Fry walked 600 miles through villages, his life and relationships and sometimes lugubrious past, his marriage and his future. It was almost as if he had died and was now reviewing everything about his life, his failures, his successes, the psychology of what made him what he had become with an angel or spiritual guide and now perhaps can find ways to finally resolve and improve what life he has left in him. Here are my random thoughts and reasons I really loved the book. 1. This book could Harold Fry walked 600 miles through villages, his life and relationships and sometimes lugubrious past, his marriage and his future. It was almost as if he had died and was now reviewing everything about his life, his failures, his successes, the psychology of what made him what he had become with an angel or spiritual guide and now perhaps can find ways to finally resolve and improve what life he has left in him. Here are my random thoughts and reasons I really loved the book. 1. This book couldn't have been written by a youngster, say someone in their forties. The author has experienced these emotions and life's lessons first hand and does what is hard to do: Explain complicated relationships and human behavior. She's a pro and brings each of these behavior and emotions to the deepest part of the gut and then to the surface. 2. In the beginning, I thought the whole idea of the pilgrimage seemed too theoretical and unrealistic. However it turns out to be a brilliant and extremely effective way to accomplish the goal of the author to verbalize feelings about life and death and relationships with others. But it's not just a metaphor. It becomes real and believable. 3. Having become somewhat of a recluse and uninvolved person, Harold's journey forces him to learn how to communicate with others and accept other's care and generosity. As he does this, he learns and becomes a better man. One of the messages is how important it is to allow others to be a part of your life, even people you may not like at first. There were many people who gave Harold what he needed when he needed it primarily because he became so humble and and vulnerable. 4. For various reasons I won't list, Harold's marriage had become nothing. The book does a solid job of describing the anatomy of a marriage gone bad. And yet, at the core, there were reasons it could still work if only serious issues from the past could be resolved. Harold's journey is also a parallel journey with his wife's journey and I found it to be quite touching and realistic. It is touching, gritty and a fast and extemely good read. ...more Absolutely delightful - sheer reading pleasure at its very best. Harold and Maureen are a retired couple living a quiet, mundane life in Devon, where hardly anything ever happens and they hardly ever talk to each other any more, when they do its barely an exchange of words followed by Maureens usual put down \"I think not\" One day a letter arrives for Harold which informs him that an old work colleague Queenie is in a hospice in Berwick on Tweed. Harold pens a reply and walks out of the door to pos Absolutely delightful - sheer reading pleasure at its very best. Harold and Maureen are a retired couple living a quiet, mundane life in Devon, where hardly anything ever happens and they hardly ever talk to each other any more, when they do its barely an exchange of words followed by Maureens usual put down \"I think not\" One day a letter arrives for Harold which informs him that an old work colleague Queenie is in a hospice in Berwick on Tweed. Harold pens a reply and walks out of the door to post it on the corner of the street, then decides to walk on to the next postbox - then the next until postboxes become towns and he just carries on walking deciding to deliver the letter by hand. As he walks he reminisces and we begin to realise there was something between him and Queenie, his story is gradually revealed as his walk continues and its evident that there are many things lurking beneath the surface of his and Maureens relationship. Back at home Maureen struggles to adapt to life without him, she talks to their son David and strikes up a friendship with an elderly neighbour and as days turn into weeks Harolds walk becomes a pilgrimage which stands for so much more than delivering a letter by hand. Along the way he meets many unusual characters, the misfits and the lonely and learns more about himself than he bargained on. With quirky flashes of humour, and moments of poignant tenderness the story is a little darker than I imagined it would be, although its essentially a love story it had me reduced to tears on the Arriva bus trying to pretend I had hayfever! Loved it - highly recommended! ...more I loved the premise of this book, that a man could just decide one day, whilst out to post a letter, to keep walking away from his life. Ostensibly he is on a mercy mission to a former colleague who is terminally ill with cancer, but the journey is more than that, as is suggested by the title. It is an old man's journey to find himself. Harold Fry is ill-equipped for such a journey as clad only in his deck-shoes he sets off to walk from Devon to Berwick-upon Tweed - the length of England. Inevit I loved the premise of this book, that a man could just decide one day, whilst out to post a letter, to keep walking away from his life. Ostensibly he is on a mercy mission to a former colleague who is terminally ill with cancer, but the journey is more than that, as is suggested by the title. It is an old man's journey to find himself. Harold Fry is ill-equipped for such a journey as clad only in his deck-shoes he sets off to walk from Devon to Berwick-upon Tweed - the length of England. Inevitably, in exploring his country on foot he finds a simpler, less packaged life at odds with that of his wife and neighbours. What has happened in his life before this decision gradually unravels before the reader; his failing marriage and a tragic inability to communicate with his work-mates or his son, plus his lack of understanding of himself. All this is excellently done, the major characters are intriguing and the staleness of a life without change is well-drawn. I enjoyed particularly his wife's reaction to the enterprise - her gradual warming to her husband's mission was subtly and delicately done. So why only four stars? Where I felt it slipped a little was in the characterisation of the entourage that developed around Harold in the latter pages of the book. These characters became more stereotypical and less believable and weakened what was otherwise an excellent read. ...more This has proved to be a very rewarding reading experience and I found that I liked it's slow reveal of Harold's life and of Harold, Maureen and Queenie's back stories. It seemed as the book progressed that Harold slowly began to realize, or to admit to himself, why he had to walk. His past began to open up to him and, in parallel, at home, his wife began to have much the same experience. This is not a novel of big moments. It is one of small moments---the remembered grasp of a son's hand, a dog d This has proved to be a very rewarding reading experience and I found that I liked it's slow reveal of Harold's life and of Harold, Maureen and Queenie's back stories. It seemed as the book progressed that Harold slowly began to realize, or to admit to himself, why he had to walk. His past began to open up to him and, in parallel, at home, his wife began to have much the same experience. This is not a novel of big moments. It is one of small moments---the remembered grasp of a son's hand, a dog dropping a stone at his feet, a neighbor with a map, the last look at his mother leaving. All these thoughts running through Harold's head as if he is finally free to experience the full span of his life and how he has become so paralyzed in recent years. As he mused: \"Life was very different when you walked through it.\"(p 40) And \"It surprised him that he was remembering all this. Maybe it was the walking. Maybe you saw even more than the land when you got out of the car and used your feet..\"(p 43) Certainly Harold did see more, much of it internal. Yes, he did notice the beauty of the sky and the flowers on those days it wasn't pouring rain, but he also saw deep into himself and his past and the life he'd led. This walk with a purpose freed him to rethink his life. And to think about Life. \"Harold pictured the gentleman on a station platform, smart in his suit, looking no different from anyone else. It must be the same all over England. People were buying milk, or filling their cars with petrol, or even posting letters. And what no one else knew was the appalling weight of the thing they were carrying inside. The inhuman effort it took sometimes to be normal and a part of things that appeared both easy and everyday. (p 90) I definitely recommend you take this journey of self-discovery along with Harold Fry. ...more Harold Fry goes to his mailbox to send a letter, and then decides to walk to the next mailbox, once he gets there he decides to walk a little further. Eventually he decides to have faith and walk across the country to hand deliver the letter to Queenie Hennessy. A person that just went through life's motions without ever really living, a shell of a man who decides to take control back and DO something about it. This book was a deep character study of seemingly normal characters shelved away and Harold Fry goes to his mailbox to send a letter, and then decides to walk to the next mailbox, once he gets there he decides to walk a little further. Eventually he decides to have faith and walk across the country to hand deliver the letter to Queenie Hennessy. A person that just went through life's motions without ever really living, a shell of a man who decides to take control back and DO something about it. This book was a deep character study of seemingly normal characters shelved away and living out their lives without meaning. Harold grabbed my heartstrings from the very first blister and I, too, found myself believing in him and something greater pushing us all along on the journey that is life. I laughed, I cried, and fell in love with these characters. A read that went quicker than the 87 days of walking Harold did. My only reason for holding back on the fifth star was the group that eventually joined in with Harold (didn't like that direction, and really felt it was unnecessary- (view spoiler) [Also, I hated the final interaction with Queenie-- SERIOUSLY?!?! What WAS that?? (hide spoiler) ] This book reminded me slightly of The Casual Vacancy . ...more I don't want to say much about the book, since so many have read and reviewed it already. Touching, endearing, realistic, emotional, good. It is one of the books on my To-Be-Read list that constantly landed on top, and I finally relented. I am not sorry at all. I took the time to venture off with Harold Fry with his letter to Queenie, felt the blisters, muscle spasms and emotional denouement as we walked 627 miles from south to north through England to deliver a letter personally. We dissected li I don't want to say much about the book, since so many have read and reviewed it already. Touching, endearing, realistic, emotional, good. It is one of the books on my To-Be-Read list that constantly landed on top, and I finally relented. I am not sorry at all. I took the time to venture off with Harold Fry with his letter to Queenie, felt the blisters, muscle spasms and emotional denouement as we walked 627 miles from south to north through England to deliver a letter personally. We dissected life as it happened for him until his 63rd birthday, and we found closure on many heartbreak and sorrows. And then of course, for moments as the reader, we leave Harold to return to his wife Maureen who stayed behind and had unexpectedly had to confront her own past and how she contributed to the events. It was painful and uplifting. It was dignified and respectful. But overall it was very real. A good experience. This book deserves all the attention it received. ...more Oh wow, and wow...a book that actually made me cry, I think that's a first. This book I so wish was chosen by my book club to read, it's so touching, so moving, so funny, so human and has one of the most powerful endings. I felt like I knew Harold personally, I cheered him on with his pilgrimage walk. This book is special, is about the human spirit, it felt so real at times it could almost be a true story, everyone should read this book. Some breathtaking paragraphs that touched me so very deepl Oh wow, and wow...a book that actually made me cry, I think that's a first. This book I so wish was chosen by my book club to read, it's so touching, so moving, so funny, so human and has one of the most powerful endings. I felt like I knew Harold personally, I cheered him on with his pilgrimage walk. This book is special, is about the human spirit, it felt so real at times it could almost be a true story, everyone should read this book. Some breathtaking paragraphs that touched me so very deeply. Wonderful book that you must read through to the end. Now I need a strong cup of tea. ...more 5\u2605 This is a journey to the past. Each slow step, each blister, each new person Harold meets reveals something of the truth of his life to him and to us. An unwanted, neglected boy grew up to be an unremarkable man. But for a brief instant, he frolicked at a dance and attracted the loveliest girl, Maureen. They dreamed and planned and married. They made a lovely home with veggie gardens and had one son, David. Harold worked at the brewery for 45 years for an obnoxious bully of a boss (like his fath 5\u2605 This is a journey to the past. Each slow step, each blister, each new person Harold meets reveals something of the truth of his life to him and to us. An unwanted, neglected boy grew up to be an unremarkable man. But for a brief instant, he frolicked at a dance and attracted the loveliest girl, Maureen. They dreamed and planned and married. They made a lovely home with veggie gardens and had one son, David. Harold worked at the brewery for 45 years for an obnoxious bully of a boss (like his father), but Harold learned early to escape notice by fading into the woodwork. Queenie Hennessey worked in finances at the brewery and was an equally unremarkable person. Harold used to drive her to inspect the books of regional pubs. Suddenly, after many years, she was fired and disappeared. . . from the brewery and from his routine. We sense unfinished business. Now, twenty years later, Harold has received a letter from her saying she is in a hospice, dying of inoperable cancer. Harold is disconsolate that he never got to say good-bye. Maureen shrugs, says she\u2019s sorry, but please pass the jam. \u201cThat\u2019s the marmalade, Harold. Jam is red. If you look at things before you pick them up, you\u2019ll find it helps.\u201d Hardly happily-ever-after stuff. This is not a stop-and-smell-the-roses parable about how to overcome cancer with positive thinking or how to find yourself by following a quest. This is a specific story about the peculiar forces that caused this relationship to form and disintegrate. Many of Harold\u2019s reminiscences (and Maureen\u2019s) are shadowy and disturbed. He and Maureen became more and more estranged as David grew up and left home and rejected them. Harold writes Queenie a letter and sets off to post it. \u201cHarold thought of the words he had written to Queenie, and their inadequacy shamed him. . . .The letter rested on the dark mouth of the post box. He couldn\u2019t let it go.\u201d He continues walking to another post box, gets hungry, and stops for something to eat, explaining to the girl at the garage where he\u2019s stopped that he\u2019s not buying fuel, just walking to post a letter to someone he knew once who has cancer. She tells him it\u2019s everywhere, but: \u201cYou have to believe. That\u2019s what I think. It\u2019s not about medicine and all that stuff. You have to believe a person can get better. There is so much in the human mind we don\u2019t understand. But, you see, if you have faith, you can do anything. . . I don\u2019t mean like religious. I mean . . . believing you can make a difference.\u201d About her aunt, \u201cShe said it gave her hope when everything else had gone--.\u201d Harold is thunderstruck. Hope! He can give that! He finds a phone, rings the hospice and announces he is walking to see Queenie and they must please tell her to wait for him. \u201cBecause I am going to save her, you see. I will keep walking and she must keep living.\u201d He takes off from the bottom SW toe of England to the top NE corner of the border with Scotland (627 miles). He\u2019s an unremarkable man with, at last, a remarkable purpose \u2013 to save a friend. He shares his story with everyone who asks, and they in turn, share their deepest fears \u2013 as passengers on a plane do. Old ladies at tea (who offer encouragement), professional trekkers (who offer walking and camping tips), kindly villagers (who offer food and sometimes a bed). There\u2019s a map at the back of the book that traces the route with place names for those of us unfamiliar with the geography. I loved the descriptions of the landscape, the weather and the towns as well as the beautiful illustrations by Andrew Davidson. P.S. For me, it was particularly interesting reading this because I had just read Us , the story of a man trekking across Europe after his son, which had the same impulsiveness (and blisters) and a difficult relationship between father, mother and son. And immediately before this, I read Tim Winton \u2019s early book of short stories, Scission , which includes \u201cWilderness\u201d, the story of a couple whose only real connection with each other is accumulating exactly the right hiking and camping equipment and doing treks together. That was their glue. My reviews of those two are below. Us https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Scission https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more If I had received a letter informing me someone I once knew was dying of cancer, I would either post a letter, at least a paragraph or two long, most likely expressing my sympathies and recalling some of our times we shared together, or I would want to go and visit, preferably arriving as quickly as possible. Mr Harold Fry, however, on discovering that Queenie, someone he used to work with, is dying of cancer, despite feeling profoundly affected by this news, initially decides to write back 2 st If I had received a letter informing me someone I once knew was dying of cancer, I would either post a letter, at least a paragraph or two long, most likely expressing my sympathies and recalling some of our times we shared together, or I would want to go and visit, preferably arriving as quickly as possible. Mr Harold Fry, however, on discovering that Queenie, someone he used to work with, is dying of cancer, despite feeling profoundly affected by this news, initially decides to write back 2 stark lines: Dear Queenie, Thank you for your letter. I am very sorry. Best wishes - Harold (Fry) Upon going to the post box to post this letter, he decides to walk on to the next post box, and then on to the post office and before long, he has decided to go and see Queenie in person. But on foot. In the north of England. From his home in the south of England. \"\u2018I admit it is an awfully long way to Berwick. I admit I am wearing the wrong clothes. And I also admit I have not the training, or the physique, for my walk. I can't explain why I think I can get there, when all the odds are against it. But I do. Even when a big part of me is saying I should give up, I can't. Even when I don't want to keep going, I still do it.\u2019\" p126 Don't get me wrong - I enjoyed the story and the writing, but I did have issues with the plausibility. However I guess I'm judging the plausibility based on my own rationalism, and Harold doesn't seem to rationalise the way I do. I was definitely frustrated at times by Harold and I think he was very fortunate on his walk for reasons unspecified to avoid giving anything away, given his lack of self care while he was walking!! Nevertheless, despite my disbelief and frustrations and the tedium of his journey at times, I liked the people Harold met along the way and the glimpses into his sad childhood. And his sad adulthood. Parts of it made me chuckle, but most of it just made me very sorry for Harold. I enjoyed that we were given glimpses into Harold's wife, Maureen's, side of the story. And there were a couple of mysteries - what happened between Queenie and Harold (and between Queenie and their boss), and what was keeping Harold's son from returning home even for a visit?? And in the end, the resolution of these mysteries and news from Queenie's carers made some of the things I'd struggled with through the book make a bit more sense. This one is a 3.5 star read and I will look forward to reading the author's further work. ...more I have recently reread parts of this book in conjunction with reading The Love Song of Miss Queenie Hennessy and I am revising my rating from 4 to 5 stars . There was a lot of insight and charm to this novel and lots of fascinating characters. If Queenie Hennessy had not written a goodbye letter to Harold he might never have discovered the commitment, strength and power he had inside in and it was a realisation so profound it was to change the course of his life. In his embarkment to see Queenie to resolve some unfinished business he unlocks his heart and generates a deep and profound emotional healing.", "Title": "The Unlikely Pilgrimage of Harold Fry"},
