{"Comments": "\u201cPlease,<---M> mein Herr</---M>, shoot the children cleanly.\u201d \u2015 <---A>Jonathan Littell</---A>, <+++>The Kindly Ones</+++> Such a fiercely compelling novel, one of the most evil stories ever told. I had to listen to the audio book while taking my walks and let all the evil from the novel run down my legs and out the bottom of my feet; so much evil, thus my initial reluctance to write a review and highly recommend. However, the writing is excellent and the insights on human nature, history and culture numerous. The first-person narrator \u201cPlease, mein Herr, shoot the children cleanly.\u201d \u2015 Jonathan Littell, <+++>The Kindly Ones</+++> Such a fiercely compelling novel, one of the most evil stories ever told. I had to listen to the audio book while taking my walks and let all the evil from the novel run down my legs and out the bottom of my feet; so much evil, thus my initial reluctance to write a review and highly recommend. However, the writing is excellent and the insights on human nature, history and culture numerous. The first-person narrator starts his story by telling us nowadays his head begins to rage with the roar of a crematorium, that when he is at a bar he pictures someone entering with a shotgun and blasting away; that when he is watching a film in a theater he imagines a live grenade under the seats; that when he is among dozens of happy families on a pleasant Sunday afternoon attending a festival in the town square he sees a car filled with explosives blowing up, turning the festivities into unending carnage, blood and guts everywhere, groan, screams, pitiful cries filling the air and then a long harrowing silence and emptiness for the survivors. Such are his thoughts since, as he also tells us, he is a veritable memory machine, unceasingly manufacturing memories whenever he has the time to think. Thus, he discovers when he once took a leave-of-absence from his responsibilities as manager of a lace factory, he can\u2019t be left alone too long to think. So, Little\u2019s novel has Maximilien Aue recounting memories in the spaces between his normal round of work and family, recounting memories as a man in his mid-fifties currently living in 1970s France. And what is the focus of his memories? Back when he was a young man, an Untersturmf\u00fchrer, that is, a Nazi SS Lieutenant living through the bitter cold and mass killings at the Russian Front, the slaughter of the concentration camps, the murders he committed with both his own pistol or his own hands, the perversions of his personal life and violence of his family life, all recounted and reported in chilling detail, in a narrative voice unflinchingly calculating and as cold and as hard as steel, say the steel of an abandoned tank in subzero January. As a good number of readers have remarked once finishing this thousand pager, not an easy read, in many respects, a downright harrowing and horrifying read.<---F> Once read, never forgotten</---F>. Rather than the killings, slaughter, perversions and other violations of humanity in Max\u2019s waking life, I will synopsize four of the Nazi SS officer\u2019s vivid, intense dreams: ONE: Max is on a high cliff watching a procession of gondolas glide down a river, he clearly sees his gorgeous identical twin sister sitting cross-legged, her long flowing black hair falling over her perfectly shaped breasts. (Sidebar: in real life Max is sexual infatuated and romantically in love with Una, his identical twin sister). Max shouts her name many times. She raises her head and their eyes meet. At this point Max feels violent stomach cramps, undoes his pants and squats down, but instead of shit, real live bees, spiders and scorpions gush out his anus. He screams out and then turns his head and sees identical twin young boys staring at him in silence. TWO: Max is gliding at different levels high up in the sky looking down, almost more like a camera than a human, looking down at a huge city set out on a uniform grid, seeing thousands and thousands of blue-eyed men and women and children, faceless, moving mechanically through birth, growth, adulthood and death creating a perfect equilibrium which reminds Max of what an ideal concentration camp would be like. THREE: In a dark bedroom Max sees a tall beautiful woman in a long white dress. He recognizes the woman is his sister. She suffers uncontrollable convulsions and diarrhea, black shit oozes through her white dress causing Max to experience great disgust and nausea. FOUR: Max exchanges cloths with his sister Una, he putting on her dress, she putting on his uniform. He sits in her chair at her dressing table and then Una carefully makes up his face, combing his hair, applying lipstick. Una then straps on an ebony phallus. After an intense session of intertwining like snakes, Max rests on the floor and says he is her sister and she is her brother to which Una replies that you are my sister and I am your brother. Of course, we could envision what a psychoanalyst, either a Freudian or a Jungian or an analyst from any other school would make of Max\u2019s dreams. Let me simply conclude by saying that anybody wishing to read this novel must be prepared for the many more brutal, cruel and murderous scenes of Max\u2019s waking life, reminding me of the hell scenes of the artist Hieronymus Bosch . Again, one of the most evil tales ever told. ...more Lugging this gigantic book around, from Omaha to Minneapolis to Dubai to Chicago back to Omaha, I began to question why I was reading it. It's nearly a thousand pages long; it's poorly translated; it was apparently edited by a monkey dying of Ebola; it has paragraphs that run on for pages, and pages, and pages; for some reason, there is no indentation for dialogue, so you're left guessing which indistinguishable character is saying which facile/stilted/cliched/boring thing; the translation is im Lugging this gigantic book around, from Omaha to Minneapolis to Dubai to Chicago back to Omaha, I began to question why I was reading it. It's nearly a thousand pages long; it's poorly translated; it was apparently edited by a monkey dying of Ebola; it has paragraphs that run on for pages, and pages, and pages; for some reason, there is no indentation for dialogue, so you're left guessing which indistinguishable character is saying which facile/stilted/cliched/boring thing; the translation is imprecise; and the overuse of the semicolon is rampant. In the end, the unasked question - why are you reading this? - is answered by a phrase provided me by the US Supreme Court's case-law on obscenity: it appealed to my \"prurient interest.\" The Kindly Ones is an ambitious wreck. It's a hot mess, but with aspirations. (It's opening line - \"Oh my human brothers, let me tell you how it happened\" - smacks of Homer). Indeed, right up until the penultimate chapter, I was halfway enjoying it. The novel, told in first person my SS officer Maximilien Aue, attempts to encompass the whole horror of the Holocaust. Like a sadistic, bloodstained Forrest Gump, Aue bounces from einsatz aktions in the Caucuses (there is a grim depiction of the massacre at Babi Yar), to the winter hell of Stalingrad, to the concentration camps of Auschwitz, and finally to Hitler's bunker and the twilight of the gods. I heard of this book by way of its controversy. It was a big hit in France, which should forever lay to rest any lingering belief that the French know anything about art. Here in America, it was severely panned by none other than Michiko Kakutani. When she described its unsavory elements - murder, incest, sodomy, unrelenting gore - I knew I had to purchase this work immediately. At first, through about 850 pages, I thought the controversy was a whole lot of nothing. Yes, there were some graphic passages, especially dealing with the einsatzkommandos slaughtering thousands of Jews and other undesirables by firing squad. Yet this is what good historical fiction does: it takes us to that place in time. In this instance, that place and time is unimaginably dark, but that doesn't mean that some light shouldn't be shed. I thought the recreation of the Belorussian slaughter was powerful. I also thought there were some clever moments, as when Aue meets a Caucasian peasant who has been gifted with the ability to have all memories at once. The peasant leads Aue to the mountain summit where Aue is supposed to kill him. For the most part, though, the book was - and I hate to say the word - dull. Hannah Arendt was right: evil is banal. The book is filled with non-characters. There are names - a veritable who's who of Nazi Germany, with cameos by Himmler, Kaltenbrunner, Speer, Eichmann, and Mengele. For the most part, though, they remain names, an undifferentiated mass. There is an fascinating bit, here and there, such as a dinner party with Eichmann, or a grouse hunt with Speer, but they are lost in a sea of never-ending crap prose. There are lengthy, turgid passages on Caucasian languages, and a dense, meandering conversation about the similarities between Bolshevism and Fascism. Also, there are endless mentions of poop. Its smell; Aue's need to evacuate his bowels; detailed descriptions of said evacuation, etc. I've never been exposed to such scatological descriptions, and hope never to be again. Still, nothing too loopy. Sure, Aue is in love with his twin sister, with whom he had an incestuous relationship, but this dark angle is not dwelt upon (in relation to how much Aue dwells on poop). And he also may-or-may-not have killed his mother, but this is just soap-drama. I started to think that Michiko might have been wrong. Where is the sick, depraved stuff that lured me in (and just to editorialize a little, I feel that many of these book reviews are very regressive when it comes to sexuality; just because Aue is a homosexual does not make him \"deviant\"; there is an underlying whiff of homophobia in many of the pans I've read). Then, at page 865, I came to that chapter. Suffice it to say, it involves a lot of auto-asphyxiation, masturbation, and defecation. I could've done without that. Moreover, this all occurs while the Russians are encircling Berlin. With the whole nation collapses, Aue manages to get vacation time so he can spend some time with himself. That stretches credulity. In fact, the whole endgame of this enormous book is terrible. Everything falls apart. There isn't a single believable instance (Anthony Beevor, I'm surprised at you for suggesting this book!) It's not just that Aue is led to Hitler's bunker and does something completely ridiculous, it's that in the final pages, all the main characters somehow meet each other. Really? The Russians are pouring into the city, bombs are bursting, mortar rounds are exploding, buildings are burning, bullets are whistling, yet everyone manages to come together for a final, bloody denouement. This utter collapse - the same malady affecting The Dark Knight - really ruined things for me. For as I said, up till that time, this book has a lot of interesting things to offer. There are vivid, nightmarish descriptions that would make Dante proud. There is a strangely beautiful, ghastly scene in which Aue goes swimming in the Volga outside Stalingrad: The swift current created whirlpools that soon carried me away under the ice. All kinds of things were passing by me, which I could clearly make out in this green water: horses whose feet the current was moving as if they were galloping, fat and almost flat fish, bottom-feeders, Russian corpses with swollen faces, entwined in their curious brown capes...Above me, the ice formed an opaque screen, but the air lasted in my lungs, I wasn't worried and kept swimming, passing sunken barges full of handsome young men sitting in rows, their weapons still in their hands, little fish threading through their hair agitated by the current. Then slowly in front of me the water grew lighter, columns of green light plunged down from holes in the ice, became a forest, then melded into each other as the blocks of ice drifted farther apart. There are parts of this book that reminded me of the sweep of Herman Wouk's The Winds of War and War and Remembrance , if those great books had been written by Cormac McCarthy. Then there are parts of this book that remind me of Team America: World Police . It's an interesting book, and I mean \"interesting\" in the Confucian sense. There are incredible moments, some of which I've mentioned, others I can only note in passing, such as gripping scenes set during the bombing of Berlin. There are moments of pure inanity, as Aue - a self-righteous, pretentious, preening gasbag - holds forth on various topics in his grating, solipsistic manner (the tragedy of Aue not being able to fornicate with his sister tends to pale next to the murder of 6 million Jews). Then there are moments of sheer weirdness, such as a dream sequence in which Rudolf Hoess, commandant of Auschwitz, masturbates next to Aue's bed. I don't know why, though perhaps this could be a thesis topic if I ever go for my PhD in English. I guess the best praise I can give this book is that it got a reaction from me. Which ain't nothing. ...more \"I live, I do what can be done, it's the same for everyone, I am a man like other men, I am a man like you. I tell you I am just like you!\" -- Jonathan Littell, The Kindly Ones This is a hard book to review. It is like walking out of a David Lynch movie and feeling brain raped by the artist. How exactly to you attempt to explore the depths of Nazi Germany without feeling dark, abused, and sick afterwards? From conversations I've had with those who've hated this novel (and British critics I've rea \"I live, I do what can be done, it's the same for everyone, I am a man like other men, I am a man like you. I tell you I am just like you!\" -- Jonathan Littell, The Kindly Ones This is a hard book to review. It is like walking out of a David Lynch movie and feeling brain raped by the artist. How exactly to you attempt to explore the depths of Nazi Germany without feeling dark, abused, and sick afterwards? From conversations I've had with those who've hated this novel (and British critics I've read) there is far too much shit, incest, anal sex and death. Certainly. But how exactly do you descend into the depths of Nazi hell without pushing through gouts of madness, clumps of wickedness and wads of depravity? You don't. Littell uses Obersturmbannf\u00fchrer Maximilien Aue (a \"cultured\", SS Zelig) to explore how an unrepentant rationalist, a bureaucrat, an intellectual could participate in, defend, and justify the extermination of a race. Aue doesn't wrestle any Jewish angels. No, he wrestles himself, his country, his ideology, his sanity. The slow decent of mad Max is a way for Littell to explore the absurd and tortured NAZI self-justifications for their actions. Littell also uses Max to incriminate us all as a species. How close are we to those in Germany during WWII? We like to think we are better, more moral, kinder, respectable, innocent. Are we? Or are we simply blessed by chance because we don't find ourselves surrounded by madness, wickedness, and final solutions? Does circumstance and chance really make us better? Does the fact that we find ourselves, by fate's mad roll, distant from both victim AND victimizer give us any room to think we exist in a field that really separates us from the horrors of Germany (or Nigeria, or Sudan, or Afghanistan, or Somolia, or Serbia, or Cambodia, or Burma, or North Korea)? Again, this is not a novel for the faint of heart (or my mother). It doesn't have a happy ending. Hell, it doesn't have a happy beginning, middle, or single clean signature. It is a cold book sewn together with sick corruptions, musical madness, and omnipresent death. It is a dance of evil, a fugue of plagues, a bile-filled nightmare on every page. Yes, I'm glad I read it, but I'm also sure as f#&k glad it is finished. ...more Rating: 3* of five The Publisher Says : \"Oh my human brothers, let me tell you how it happened.\" So begins the chilling fictional memoir of Dr. Maximilien Aue, a former Nazi officer who has reinvented himself, many years after the war, as a middle-class family man and factory owner in France. Max is an intellectual steeped in philosophy, literature, and classical music. He is also a cold-blooded assassin and the consummate bureaucrat. Through the eyes of this cultivated yet monstrous man, we experi Rating: 3* of five The Publisher Says : \"Oh my human brothers, let me tell you how it happened.\" So begins the chilling fictional memoir of Dr. Maximilien Aue, a former Nazi officer who has reinvented himself, many years after the war, as a middle-class family man and factory owner in France. Max is an intellectual steeped in philosophy, literature, and classical music. He is also a cold-blooded assassin and the consummate bureaucrat. Through the eyes of this cultivated yet monstrous man, we experience in disturbingly precise detail the horrors of the Second World War and the Nazi genocide of the Jews. During the period from June 1941 through April 1945, Max is posted to Poland, the Ukraine, and the Caucasus; he is present at the Battle of Stalingrad and at Auschwitz; and he lives through the chaos of the final days of the Nazi regime in Berlin. Although Max is a totally imagined character, his world is peopled by real historical figures, such as Eichmann, Himmler, Goring, Speer, Heyrich, Hoss, and Hitler himself. A supreme historical epic and a haunting work of fiction, Jonathan Littell's masterpiece is intense, hallucinatory, and utterly original. Published to impressive critical acclaim in France in 2006, it went on to win the Prix Goncourt, that country's most prestigious literary award, and sparked a broad range of responses and questions from readers: How does fiction deal with the nature of human evil? How should a novel encompass the Holocaust? At what point do history and fiction come together and where do they separate? A provocative and controversial work of literature, The Kindly Ones is a morally challenging read; it holds up a mirror to humanity--and the reader cannot look away. My Review : The Kindly Ones is more than a morally challenging read; it makes me feel deeply unclean. I don't have any idea what I would do, in the same circumstances as the author sets his protagonist into, but I suspect I would have been this protagonist had the same things happened to me at the same ages. Now...well, a 50-year-old is a different creature than a 22-year-old, no matter that us 50+ers want to think otherwise. I abandoned this book, a library 14-day checkout, at p364. Ivan and Max (who is our protagonist) are scuttling around looking for Croats, and I ran aground when \"Feldgendarmen\" and \"ACHTUNG! MINIEN!\" occurred in close proximity. I just could not endure one more moment of German military terminology and I dislike the German language with sincere fervor, and then there is the slickly sickly slimy Max, with whom I can't bear to spend one more eyeblink; but good lord people, the amount I've already read would be a novel by itself! As anyone who's ever read one of my reviews knows, I don't do book reports. The events of this book aren't in any way a surprise to you if you've been awake in the past year. I can say, though, that anyone who wants to deny the existence of a Holocaust would do well to read this novel. It feels like the events could not possibly be true. No one could live through this, perpetrator or not, and face life as a sane being ever again. So far as I am aware, the German nation did not have a huge insanity problem after WWII, so ipso facto there was no Holocaust! Littell's story shows how well he understands the history of the (factual) Holocaust, and his choice of a protagonist shows how well he understands human nature and its strengths. It's a deeply disturbing book for that reason alone. That a man could imagine this character, could write about him in his own voice and with clarity, precision, and artistry, is unsettling to my vision of authors as refiners of reality into truth. If Truth can contain this, there is no safe place anywhere. And there isn't. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more So . . . the war. The Second one. Or is that the Second One? Do we capitalise all Things Pertaining to the War? I think it\u2019s appropriate to capitalise when referring to the Greatest Atrocity in All of Mankind . . . or if not appropriate, respectful. And people, well, people keep writing books about It. That War. That Pesky War! This near-1000-page novel is the rambling testament of SS officer Dr. <---C>Max Aue</---C>, devoted Hauptsturmf\u00fchrer (Captain), later Standartenf\u00fchrer (Major), semi-repentant monster So . . . the war. The Second one. Or is that the Second One? Do we capitalise all Things Pertaining to the War? I think it\u2019s appropriate to capitalise when referring to the Greatest Atrocity in All of Mankind . . . or if not appropriate, respectful. And people, well, people keep writing books about It. That War. That Pesky War! This near-1000-page novel is the rambling testament of SS officer Dr. Max Aue, devoted Hauptsturmf\u00fchrer (Captain), later Standartenf\u00fchrer (Major), semi-repentant monster and lunatic, following his humble beginnings liquidating all non-Aryans to his time, uh, liquidating all non-Aryans. The novel is written in a flat first-person prose, heavily factual with some surgical dissections of the narrator\u2019s complex emotional life. The breadth of research on display is outstanding (Littell spent five years researching and less than a year writing the book) and the reader gets swept along in these rhythmic flows of gruesome insider information\u2014blandly descriptive horrors keep the reader going through shock, acting as an unfortunate emotional catalyst. Largely, however, the book is about the collapsing bureaucracy of the Nazi regime, rendering absurd their illogical brand of single-minded barbarism as a kind of Weltanschauung through cold unbiased fact. Critics of the book complain about the narrator\u2019s obsession with excrement, but excrement acts as an unpleasant metaphor for his disturbed mental state, for the rotten world of wartime Europe\u2014Max Aue might have murdered his mother and stepfather, and still holds a torch for his sister whom he sodomised as a teenager. This warped one-way romance builds to a devastating pitch 900 pages in (worth the wait) where he falls into a perverse erotic fantasy, merging his body to his sister\u2019s by writhing in her bed sheets, imagining himself back in the snug seat of his mother\u2019s womb. The suggestion being Max, nor his colleagues, should have ever left the womb, or ever ceased being infants. Plus, critics hate long novels. They have to review four or five per week, they can\u2019t be doing with 1000-page monsters with conflicting moral messages. This Novel About the War, however, is an absolutely breathtaking piece\u2014a fresh and contentious addition to an already bursting market. Sure, it has its flaws: suffocating marshes of micro-detail and long dialogues between SS officers of an often tedious nature, but the overall execution is coolly done, as if JG Ballard had written about the War. Oh, hang on . . . So, if you have a spare 25 hours this week, make this one a priority. A modern classic? No. But damn good. ...more Eu at\u00e9 tinha isto mais ou menos alinhavado na minha cabe\u00e7a. At\u00e9 chegar \u00e0s \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas e perder o ch\u00e3o; e perder definitivamente a pouca paz que ainda me restava. Ao longo de mais de 800 p\u00e1ginas, em que Max Aue se atormentou e me atormentou, fui-lhe dando o benef\u00edcio da d\u00favida; fui tentando justificar o seu comportamento pelo sofrimento que carregava desde a inf\u00e2ncia; pela dor atroz que um amor incestuoso, imposs\u00edvel, o condenou a viver. Subestimei as afirma\u00e7\u00f5es em que negava arrependimento ou Eu at\u00e9 tinha isto mais ou menos alinhavado na minha cabe\u00e7a. At\u00e9 chegar \u00e0s \u00faltimas p\u00e1ginas e perder o ch\u00e3o; e perder definitivamente a pouca paz que ainda me restava. Ao longo de mais de 800 p\u00e1ginas, em que Max Aue se atormentou e me atormentou, fui-lhe dando o benef\u00edcio da d\u00favida; fui tentando justificar o seu comportamento pelo sofrimento que carregava desde a inf\u00e2ncia; pela dor atroz que um amor incestuoso, imposs\u00edvel, o condenou a viver. Subestimei as afirma\u00e7\u00f5es em que negava arrependimento ou remorsos, achei que o pr\u00f3prio se condenava mas logo se contradizia quando defendia melhorias no tratamento aos prisioneiros dos campos de concentra\u00e7\u00e3o, quando denunciava a brutalidade dos guardas, quando vomitava as entranhas ao ver um cr\u00e2nio esmagado\u2026 Na pen\u00faltima p\u00e1gina as minhas ilus\u00f5es ca\u00edram por terra: Maximilien Aue, oficial SS do regime nazi, um homem culto e inteligente, apreciador de boa literatura e boa m\u00fasica, afirmou-se indiscutivelmente como mais uma pe\u00e7a da hierarquia destrutiva convicta da sua superioridade racial, na qual se justificava e absolvia. Ainda assim, n\u00e3o o consigo odiar. Internem-me! Atrav\u00e9s das suas mem\u00f3rias temos acesso detalhado ao funcionamento da m\u00e1quina de guerra nazi at\u00e9 \u00e0 derrocada final, aos meandros dos campos de concentra\u00e7\u00e3o, \u00e0s perversidades irracionais de quem decidiu erradicar outros seres humanos da face da terra, como \u201csolu\u00e7\u00e3o final\u201d e contributo para a ascens\u00e3o de um povo e de uma \u201cra\u00e7a superior\u201d. \u00c9 um livro dif\u00edcil de ler por v\u00e1rias raz\u00f5es: -Pelos cap\u00edtulos excessivamente longos - embora o autor tenha sido capaz de ir mudando de assunto de forma muito natural e flu\u00edda. -Pelos termos em alem\u00e3o \u2013 para quem n\u00e3o domina a l\u00edngua, \u00e9 cansativo estar sempre \u00e0 procura de tradu\u00e7\u00e3o. As explica\u00e7\u00f5es do gloss\u00e1rio s\u00e3o t\u00e3o extensas que desisti ap\u00f3s as primeiras tentativas. -Pelas explica\u00e7\u00f5es da enorme burocracia do regime, que nos cansam a paci\u00eancia apesar de revelarem o quanto eram minuciosos e controladores, e as enormes rivalidades e trai\u00e7\u00f5es existentes entre departamentos. Apesar disso, apesar das descri\u00e7\u00f5es terr\u00edveis de grande viol\u00eancia, de mostrar como o homem se pode tornar monstruoso em nome de uma ideologia professada por um psicopata que arrastou multid\u00f5es na sua loucura, apesar disto tudo e muito mais, \u00e9 um livro que me ficar\u00e1 sempre na mem\u00f3ria e que marcou um ponto de viragem nas minhas leituras sobre o holocausto. A dada altura da narrativa diz Max Aue: \u201c N\u00e3o pedi para me tornar um assassino; se pudesse escolher, optaria pela literatura.\u201d Parece t\u00e3o simples. N\u00e3o teremos op\u00e7\u00e3o? Servir\u00e1 de desculpa? ...more \"...que triste \u00e9 isto que encontro! Se n\u00e3o te interpretasse bem estaria surdo e cego, E embora entenda o que dizes ensombra-me o pensamento.\" Robert Browning, \"A Toccata of Galuppi's\" 1. Toccata Jonathan Littell escreve um romance monumental sobre a Segunda Guerra Mundial. Embora seja filho de judeus, f\u00e1-lo sobre o ponto de vista dos nazis o que torna esta obra uma pe\u00e7a original e fascinante, quer pelo conte\u00fado hist\u00f3rico e humano, quer por abalar a consci\u00eancia do leitor, obrigando-o a questionar-se \"...que triste \u00e9 isto que encontro! Se n\u00e3o te interpretasse bem estaria surdo e cego, E embora entenda o que dizes ensombra-me o pensamento.\" Robert Browning, \"A Toccata of Galuppi's\" 1. Toccata Jonathan Littell escreve um romance monumental sobre a Segunda Guerra Mundial. Embora seja filho de judeus, f\u00e1-lo sobre o ponto de vista dos nazis o que torna esta obra uma pe\u00e7a original e fascinante, quer pelo conte\u00fado hist\u00f3rico e humano, quer por abalar a consci\u00eancia do leitor, obrigando-o a questionar-se sobre o que faria nas mesmas circunst\u00e2ncias. \"Os fil\u00f3sofos pol\u00edticos t\u00eam feito notar muitas vezes que em tempo de guerra o cidad\u00e3o, do sexo masculino pelo menos, perde um dos seus direitos mais elementares, o de viver (...) Mas raramente notaram que o mesmo cidad\u00e3o perde ao mesmo tempo um outro direito, igualmente elementar e talvez ainda mais vital, no que diz respeito \u00e0 ideia que faz de si pr\u00f3prio enquanto homem civilizado: o direito de n\u00e3o matar.\" 2. Allemandes O livro est\u00e1 estruturado em sete cap\u00edtulos, cada um tendo como t\u00edtulo um tema musical, ao longo dos quais o narrador, qual bailarino do inferno, subjuga o leitor perante uma dan\u00e7a de morte, representada pela guerra e pelos dem\u00f3nios que ela gera nos homens. 3. Courante As Benevolentes, ou Er\u00ednias, s\u00e3o as deusas da vingan\u00e7a que t\u00eam como miss\u00e3o castigar os homens pelos seus crimes (a leitura do mito de Orestes, e a sua associa\u00e7\u00e3o a Aue, ajuda a compreender e tirar conclus\u00f5es acerca de algumas situa\u00e7\u00f5es deixadas em aberto por Littell). William-Adolphe Bouguereau, The Remorse of Orestes 4. Sarabanda Maximilien Aue \u00e9 um jurista que durante a guerra integra as SS, tendo como miss\u00e3o garantir a efici\u00eancia dos campos de concentra\u00e7\u00e3o explorando, pelo trabalho, os mais fortes e eliminando os in\u00fateis. Essencialmente, o seu trabalho consiste em acompanhar e vigiar os \"t\u00e9cnicos\" e os \"executores\" e elaborar relat\u00f3rios para os seus superiores. N\u00e3o toma, voluntariamente, ac\u00e7\u00e3o nas tarefas de morte, nem se questiona muito sobre o que faz e v\u00ea, pois entende que tem de fazer o que lhe mandam. Vive atormentado de paix\u00e3o pela \u00fanica pessoa que amou, e pelos seus fantasmas e dem\u00f3nios que exorciza atrav\u00e9s do sexo. Dirigindo-se ao leitor faz uma confiss\u00e3o de quem foi, do que fez e no que se tornou. N\u00e3o \u00e9 o alem\u00e3o cruel, mas tamb\u00e9m n\u00e3o o alem\u00e3o bonzinho, ou seja, n\u00e3o \u00e9 carrasco nem \u00e9 v\u00edtima; \u00e9 apenas um ser humano que se preocupa apenas consigo pr\u00f3prio e que faz tudo pela sua sobreviv\u00eancia. Um ser, aparentemente, abomin\u00e1vel, mas que esta leitora, a quem ele mostrou a sua alma, n\u00e3o consegue odiar... \"Os que me l\u00eaem nunca poder\u00e3o dizer: N\u00e3o matarei, \u00e9 imposs\u00edvel; poder\u00e3o dizer quando muito: Espero n\u00e3o matar.\" Edvard Munch, Self-Portrait in Hell 5. Minuete Hitler, Himmler, Mengele, Eichmann, H\u00f6ss, Goebbels s\u00e3o alguns dos bem conhecidos burocratas respons\u00e1veis pela perda de milh\u00f5es de vidas - na sua maioria russos e alem\u00e3es - e pelo genoc\u00eddio de cerca de seis milh\u00f5es de judeus, cujos planos de \"solu\u00e7\u00e3o final\" eram discutidos e fundamentados como se tratassem de insectos a exterminar por forma a preservar a sobreviv\u00eancia do povo alem\u00e3o. Jose Clemente Orozco, The Clowns of War Arguing in Hell 6. Air Nas minhas opini\u00f5es sobre um livro tenho tend\u00eancia a sintetizar o meu pensamento e elaborar opini\u00f5es curtas, mas em rela\u00e7\u00e3o a As Benevolentes, cuja leitura foi extremamente perturbadora, os pensamentos e sentimentos atropelam-se-me e sinto alguma dificuldade em calar a mente; seria capaz de estar horas e dias a falar sobre este livro, particularmente sobre Aue que considero uma das personagens mais complexas, profundas, terr\u00edveis e fascinantes da literatura. Sem d\u00favida, que este \u00e9 um dos livros mais marcantes que j\u00e1 li e, certamente, sempre que ler ou ouvir falar sobre nazismo lembrar-me-ei de Maximilien Aue. 7. Giga Recomendo este livro mas apenas a leitores corajosos. As descri\u00e7\u00f5es das atrocidades, sofridas pelas v\u00edtimas e por alguns carrascos, s\u00e3o de uma crueza arrepiante que nos obrigam a interromper a leitura, tentando-nos a abandonar definitivamente o livro; tamb\u00e9m certas reac\u00e7\u00f5es fisiol\u00f3gicas de Aue podem tornar-se repugnantes para um leitor mais sens\u00edvel; assim como a descri\u00e7\u00e3o das suas experi\u00eancias sexuais, fora do comum, podem provocar alguma repulsa. \"Se nasceram num pa\u00eds ou numa \u00e9poca em que n\u00e3o s\u00f3 ningu\u00e9m aparece para matar as vossas mulheres, os vossos filhos, mas em que ningu\u00e9m aparece tamb\u00e9m para vos dizer que matem as mulheres e os filhos dos outros, d\u00eaem gra\u00e7as a Deus e v\u00e3o em paz.\" ...more Este livro \u00e9 uma obra e tanto! \u00c9 tamb\u00e9m, seguramente, um dos romances mais pesados e violentos que j\u00e1 li. As descri\u00e7\u00f5es muito gr\u00e1ficas e a enorme componente de facto hist\u00f3rico d\u00e3o \u00e0 viol\u00eancia retratada grande vividez e tangibilidade. Trata-se de um relato de acontecimentos da Segunda Guerra Mundial pela voz de um ex-oficial SS, Maximilien Aue, alem\u00e3o de ascend\u00eancia francesa, jurista de forma\u00e7\u00e3o, sobrevivente da guerra e que, numa idade mais avan\u00e7ada, nos conta as suas mem\u00f3rias - os combates na f Este livro \u00e9 uma obra e tanto! \u00c9 tamb\u00e9m, seguramente, um dos romances mais pesados e violentos que j\u00e1 li. As descri\u00e7\u00f5es muito gr\u00e1ficas e a enorme componente de facto hist\u00f3rico d\u00e3o \u00e0 viol\u00eancia retratada grande vividez e tangibilidade. Trata-se de um relato de acontecimentos da Segunda Guerra Mundial pela voz de um ex-oficial SS, Maximilien Aue, alem\u00e3o de ascend\u00eancia francesa, jurista de forma\u00e7\u00e3o, sobrevivente da guerra e que, numa idade mais avan\u00e7ada, nos conta as suas mem\u00f3rias - os combates na frente russa e na Ucr\u00e2nia, as condi\u00e7\u00f5es prec\u00e1rias dos soldados que a\u00ed combatiam, a \"gest\u00e3o\" dos prisioneiros e dos campos de concentra\u00e7\u00e3o, os fuzilamentos, os exterm\u00ednios em massa, o avan\u00e7o das tropas aliadas at\u00e9 ao colapso alem\u00e3o. Um relato \u00e9pico e sem filtros que evidencia de forma muito v\u00edvida os horrores da guerra e os seus efeitos materiais, f\u00edsicos e psicol\u00f3gicos. As fun\u00e7\u00f5es de Max Aue enquanto oficial SS n\u00e3o s\u00e3o as de executor. O seu papel \u00e9 o de inspeccionar cen\u00e1rios e elaborar os respectivos relat\u00f3rios a serem apresentados aos seus superiores. N\u00e3o exerce a crueldade ou a viol\u00eancia gratuitas, preocupando-se apenas em dar o seu contributo para a optimiza\u00e7\u00e3o do funcionamento da m\u00e1quina de guerra alem\u00e3 e, desta forma, ou por esse motivo, descreve uma realidade horrenda e monstruosa num tom \"seco\", totalmente desapaixonado, e cujos ju\u00edzos de valor, quando existem, nunca dizem respeito a quest\u00f5es \u00e9ticas ou humanistas mas apenas a quest\u00f5es log\u00edsticas e de efici\u00eancia. Exerce o que considera ser o seu dever, sem qualquer tipo de vol\u00fapia mas tamb\u00e9m sem contri\u00e7\u00e3o e sem se questionar moralmente. O discurso s\u00f3 se torna apaixonado, por vezes quase demente, quando se foca na vida pessoal e na individualidade de Aue - a inf\u00e2ncia, a fam\u00edlia, o amor imposs\u00edvel. Uma personagem, eu diria, menos atormentada pela guerra do que pelo seu passado e pela sua paix\u00e3o infact\u00edvel que o conduz a uma homossexualidade depravada e selvagem, desapegada de qualquer sentimento afectivo. Uma personagem de grande complexidade, de constru\u00e7\u00e3o not\u00e1vel. A quantidade de informa\u00e7\u00e3o presente neste romance \u00e9 enorme. As descri\u00e7\u00f5es do aparelho pol\u00edtico-militar, do funcionamento das hierarquias, das rivalidades entre organiza\u00e7\u00f5es, das tomadas de decis\u00e3o e das ac\u00e7\u00f5es efectivadas distinguem-se pelo enorme detalhe e realismo, dando-nos uma perspectiva de estarmos situados em pleno cen\u00e1rio, a viver a guerra e as \"politiquices\" por dentro. Houve momentos em que quase me esquecia que estava a ler uma obra ficcional. Acredito que este seja um livro merecedor de cinco estrelas. O ter-lhe subtra\u00eddo uma tem a ver com algumas dificuldades que senti ao longo da leitura, nomeadamente a minha incapacidade de acompanhar na totalidade o imenso palavreado alem\u00e3o e as numerosas siglas que o autor utiliza, sobretudo para se referir a patentes militares, organiza\u00e7\u00f5es, servi\u00e7os e outras situa\u00e7\u00f5es, obrigando-me a recorrer frequentemente ao gloss\u00e1rio que \u00e9 apresentado no fim do livro (e que al\u00e9m de incompleto \u00e9 de consulta pouco pr\u00e1tica). Senti que este detalhe me deixou algumas vezes \"a apanhar bon\u00e9s\" e retirou alguma fluidez \u00e0 leitura. Em resumo, uma leitura longa, densa, pesada e exigente mas que recompensou com toda a certeza o tempo nela empregue. Ningu\u00e9m sabe de nada excepto aqueles que fazem o trabalho sujo. Para onde foram os teus vizinhos judeus de Moabit? Nunca te perguntaste nada parecido? Para o Leste? Mandaram-nos trabalhar para o Leste? Para onde? Se houvesse seis ou sete milh\u00f5es de judeus a trabalhar no Leste, ter\u00edamos constru\u00eddo cidades inteiras! N\u00e3o ouves a BBC? Eles sabem, eles! Toda a gente sabe, salvo os bons alem\u00e3es que nada querem saber. ...more Reading \u201cThe Kindly Ones\u201d is like roaming around a dilapidated mansion \u2013 it begs you to explore; it is both fascinating and repulsive. The book is very ambitious, and it\u2019s a pleasure to read literature that takes on a serious if uncomfortable subject, and literature that takes itself seriously. I would have given this five stars, and I do find it largely successful, but there are some snags in the subplot that don\u2019t quite work. The overarching historical plot works well. The protagonist, Maximili Reading \u201cThe Kindly Ones\u201d is like roaming around a dilapidated mansion \u2013 it begs you to explore; it is both fascinating and repulsive. The book is very ambitious, and it\u2019s a pleasure to read literature that takes on a serious if uncomfortable subject, and literature that takes itself seriously. I would have given this five stars, and I do find it largely successful, but there are some snags in the subplot that don\u2019t quite work. The overarching historical plot works well. The protagonist, Maximilien Aue, visits the WWII hot spots: Babi Yar, Stalingrad, Auschwitz, and Berlin as it falls. I found the perspective gripping. And rather than finding his interaction with actual notorious Nazis ridiculous - Himmler, Speer, Eichmann, H\u00f6ss, Mengele, Hitler and Bormann, his mustache brush - I found the approach better than fictionalizing the bigwigs with aliases we\u2019d have to guess at. Mostly, I appreciated the point of view \u2013 I\u2019ve read other WWII novels but few if any in which we\u2019re escorted through by a perpetrator of the Holocaust. It\u2019s a privileged if disgusting view. While there is obscene crime in the book, no need to get all righteous about it and refuse to read on. (If your stomach is weak, don\u2019t even try this book.) The protagonist would tell you that everything that happened in WWII was caused by human beings, not monsters or genetic mutants. Aue himself doesn\u2019t seem designed to represent some horrid beast. For the most part, he appears to be a cultivated, educated but otherwise ordinary man sucked into the infernal machine. And yet \u2013 and here comes my problem with the subplot \u2013 he\u2019s not some ordinary man. He is one fucked-up cookie with some heavy issues, mostly being obsessively in love with his twin sister, with whom he longs to be one. And he unfairly despises his French mother, whom he feels betrayed his German father, thus setting up psychologically Aue\u2019s allegiance to the Fatherland. And he is not just compelled to murder as a consequence of war, but he\u2019s also an out-and-out murderer. Aue would also have preferred to be a woman. No sin there, but definitely not some ordinary guy tricked into doing the devil\u2019s business. His sexual perversions don\u2019t stop at desiring his sister. He also gets it on with a specially whittled tree branch at the tail-end of an excessive and prolonged masturbatory orgy. The fantasies! Ugh. I was both surprised and not surprised that \u201cThe Kindly Ones\u201d won the \u201cBad Sex Award\u201d for fiction in 2009. Not for sex that takes place \u2013 rather a wet dream. Oy. At the end, Aue is pursued both by oncoming Russians but also by \u201cthe kindly ones,\u201d aka the Furies, for his personal crimes. I both enjoyed this mix of main plot/subplot and found it distracting. And in all cases, Aue knows he is guilty and yet doesn\u2019t seem to regret anything, for various reasons. On the downside, the author does tend to go off on tangents that can be worse than tedious \u2013 they\u2019re sometimes hard to follow. Many deal with bureaucratic issues, but for me the most exasperating was the long monologue on Caucasian linguistics by Aue\u2019s friend Voss. I suppose the point about the difficulty and/or futility of being able to identify a language\u2019s/people\u2019s true origins was clear, still the author really begged the reader\u2019s patience. I can only imagine that such passages are intended to play up the contrast of how tedium exists alongside horror. Nevertheless, whereas I would have given up on other books, this was too interesting to put down. Once the dull spots were slogged through, it was easy to get caught up again. My favorite parts of the book were the hallucinatory segments. When Aue\u2019s arm frees itself from his body of its own accord and goes off shooting wildly, disconnected from him. When he is shot in Stalingrad and suddenly he\u2019s swimming the Volga, then floating about in a dirigible with a mad scientist type. When the masturbatory episode exhausts itself and Aue imagines a dead figure in the snow. Finally, I liked the figure of Helene. It was important to me that she was part of the book. The scene where Aue tells her what the deal out east really is brings it home for me. She says the German people will have to pay for their crimes, and Aue responds, yes, if they lose, their enemies will be pitiless. But Helene says even if the Germans win they are going to pay. So true! I found her a sobering anchor-point in this sprawling book. Unfortunately, Helene has to be abandoned, because Aue is guilty and condemned and although human, he must be divorced from human comfort. ...more \"A new War and Peace ... Never, in the recent history of French literature, has an early work been so ambitious, so masterfully written, so meticulous in its detail or so serenely horrifying.\" -Le Nouvel Observateur, taken from the back cover \u201cWhat is this shit?\u201d -A former French resistance fighter on this book, as quoted by Laurent Binet in The Millions This is a book that could have been. There were brief flashes of fascination, tantalizing ideas, lost in an interminable sea of dreck. The opening T \"A new War and Peace ... Never, in the recent history of French literature, has an early work been so ambitious, so masterfully written, so meticulous in its detail or so serenely horrifying.\" -Le Nouvel Observateur, taken from the back cover \u201cWhat is this shit?\u201d -A former French resistance fighter on this book, as quoted by Laurent Binet in The Millions This is a book that could have been. There were brief flashes of fascination, tantalizing ideas, lost in an interminable sea of dreck. The opening Toccata gives us a few teasing sentences: \"Oh my human brothers, let me tell you how it happened.\" says the SS-Officer, and ends with \"I am a man like other man, I am a man like you. I tell you I am just like you.\" Now is this a pleasing lie to himself or a plea to persuade? This brings to mind Arendt's study Eichmann in Jerusalem , on how ordinary people can be convinced or seduced to commit great evils and justify them. But the book turns sour. The chapters with their musical titles of Allemandes, Courante, Sarabande, so on, are played largo in E minor. It is to be understood, in a book like this, that there is due to be excessive violence. This is, after all, about an SS-Officer in the Eastern Front. It is gruesome, but endurable. And furthermore, I must give credit to the author for doing his research. He apparently got the hierarchy of titles and organizations right, as far as I can tell. And his long information dumps are intensely fascinating. I particularly enjoyed the discussion of languages and ethnicities of the Caucus, and the absurdity of trying to classify them into Jewish or not-Jewish so they can be exterminated shows the foolish ideal of the Nazi goal of racial conquest. For those, I give the author credit. And he has had his experience with war and suffering - mainly, volunteer work in the DR-Congo. But after that, there is little investigation of moral dilemmas at all. Just chronology. Atrocity, extermination, rear-guard action, pincer movement, all become a dull sludge. Only a few cursory fragments, as tempting as they are, give us reason to think. But otherwise it is a catalog of atrocities. Speaking of sludge, what is it feces and this book? Perhaps it may have been written as a shock factor, but instead of any contemplation or angst at all, we see a more physical psychosomatic reaction. Do something evil? Just poop it out! Your nation and ethos crumbling around you? Put a sausage up your butt in the Siege of Berlin, 1945 and cry thinking about fucking your twin sister! I'm not saying that feces as a metaphor is inherently bad. Nor does the gratuitous and forced incest make an inherently bad novel, although they can understandably disgust so many readers and either dissuade or titillate so many others. Instead, they are more like a substitute for something more important, as though a long and difficult conversation is being avoided or hidden with more gratuitous shock value. The author seldom mentions the simmering occupation of France. Only a few mentions, if perhaps at all. If the author spoke of atrocities there, say Oradour-sur-Glane, would the book arouse such prurient interest, visceral recognition of true evil? But that, too, is another omission. Tant pis. 1 star, not because the whole work is to be discarded (at least, all but the beginning), but because of how much it frustrated and disappointed. ...more The English translation of les Bienveillantes is a travesti. All the sardonic irony and the disgust of the author for his protagonist is lost; imagine taking seriously the Blagojevich defence (I am being punished for doing the right thing for the people who voted for me)! It starts with the double-entendres (the word 'bienveillant' means 'kind' of course, but it can also denote watchfulness, or paternalism or 'meaning well', depending on the context) when ambiguity is the book's medium; then it m The English translation of les Bienveillantes is a travesti. All the sardonic irony and the disgust of the author for his protagonist is lost; imagine taking seriously the Blagojevich defence (I am being punished for doing the right thing for the people who voted for me)! It starts with the double-entendres (the word 'bienveillant' means 'kind' of course, but it can also denote watchfulness, or paternalism or 'meaning well', depending on the context) when ambiguity is the book's medium; then it misses the nuances of mode, tense and syntax. There is indeed something \"pointlessly depraved\" and \"deeply wrong\" about this book: its subject matter, those ordinary people who could kiss their children goodnight and go to sleep with a clear conscience after spending each day doing hundreds of acts of degradation, terrorizing, torture and abject murder (each one of these acts would have landed them in jail had they done it to an animal). By eradicating Jews, homosexuals, insane, homeless, communists and handicapped, they were just improving the gene pool. What this book does is make it impossible for us to dismiss the nazis as inhuman monsters we have nothing in common with. The torturers are all too human and that's why this book is so uncomfortably ambiguous. And their lack of remorse is echoed in our society too, not just by the KKK and their lynchings, or by those who set to cure homosexuality with a baseball bat, but also by those who advocate punishing the poor for their misfortune, or segregate people for their sexual orientation: the act itself is of course less despicable, but the selfrighteousness is the same. If you can't stand to look at that, then indeed you have the power of \"closing the book and throwing it in the trash\". The rest of us are left with the gnawing uncertainty: how much of a hatemonger am I? It's only a matter of degree, not a difference in nature. ...more Madness. Despicably disgustingly amazingly crafted madness. The ability of authors to write out these scenarios, diving into and drowning in the minds of the most horrific human beings imaginable, without completely losing their minds astounds me sometimes. Maximilian Aue is just a byproduct of this whole history, if you can believe it. He starts out with horrific tendencies, to be sure (view spoiler) [: incest from an extremely young age, coprophilia, murderous inclinations (hide spoiler) ] . And Madness. Despicably disgustingly amazingly crafted madness. The ability of authors to write out these scenarios, diving into and drowning in the minds of the most horrific human beings imaginable, without completely losing their minds astounds me sometimes. Maximilian Aue is just a byproduct of this whole history, if you can believe it. He starts out with horrific tendencies, to be sure (view spoiler) [: incest from an extremely young age, coprophilia, murderous inclinations (hide spoiler) ] . And then comes the war and its horrible mesh of insane procedures combined with genocide in the name of a logic that only exists in minds blinded by 'the bigger picture'. The motto of the war? It's someone else's responsibility. Every bit of it. And the sheer idiocy of it: setting out to wipe out entire races while simultaneously saving them for an efficient work force? The entire war effort of the Germans degenerated into a paradox along these lines; at the end it became nothing more than an atrocious mess of confusion and futile attempts at maintaining order, and above all rampant killing. You look at Dr. Aue, and you look at a microcosm that contains a good deal of the horrors. The thing is, even he wasn't enough of a monster to fully appreciate them (view spoiler) [; the war machine around him combined with extreme physical trauma tormented his conscience into complete insanity (hide spoiler) ] . One of the more completely fucked up characters of literature. You have to appreciate the detail of the book; it's so easy to sink into the world described from every aspect of cultural/political/societal context. Of course the sick taste of madness never fully leaves the pages; the aim of the book is not to leave you comfortable. Yes, quite a bit of this book will turn your stomach. But if you condemn it solely because of that, you're missing the entire point that Germany in WWII was not a nice place. It would sicken you then, so there's no point if it doesn't sicken you now. In a more accredited person's words: As long as war is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination. When it is looked upon as vulgar, it will cease to be popular. -Oscar Wilde ...more You're given a free trip to Europe, time-travelling back to world war two. Your vehicle is one of the two characters you are free to choose from: one, a Jew who hid for many months, was caught by the Germans, placed in a concentration camp, then died before the war was over; the other a Nazi officer who had been everywhere, practically met everyone of consequence in the German military, and survived the war. You will be like the character's shadow. You will be with him wherever he goes, 24/7. Yo You're given a free trip to Europe, time-travelling back to world war two. Your vehicle is one of the two characters you are free to choose from: one, a Jew who hid for many months, was caught by the Germans, placed in a concentration camp, then died before the war was over; the other a Nazi officer who had been everywhere, practically met everyone of consequence in the German military, and survived the war. You will be like the character's shadow. You will be with him wherever he goes, 24/7. You will see, hear and experience everything within the ambit of his senses. You will suffer no harm, but neither can you change anything that had happened. Which character will you choose to hitch a ride with? Read this book and you'll be the shadow of Sturmbannfuhrer Maximilian Aue (later promoted to Obersturmbannfuhrer, the rank equivalent to the Lieutenent-Colonel of the American army), an officer in the SS in an almost perpetual state of throwing up and diarrhea. He is a lawyer, an expert in constitutional law, but prefers to call himself a jurist, thus \"Dr. Aue,\" before the war. He is also gay, yet has an infantile, obsessive and unbreakable incestuous bond with is only sibling, his twin sister. With him, you'll see Europe at war, criss-crossing Germany, Poland, France, Russia, etc. He was even there at Stalingrad, surviving the siege a false hero. Through this guy you'll see the glory of Nazi Germany at its mightiest and the horrors of the concentration camps it created. You'll have close contacts with the architects of the Holocaust, guys like Heinrich Himmler, Adolf Eichmann and even Hitler himself whose nose Aue manages to bite, and hear them discuss philosophy, music and their inmates' diet. The common holocaust literature is written from the Jews' point of view. Here, you'll meet the SUFFERING German officers and soldiers, driven to savagery, brutality and, sometimes, insanity because they are forced to do things \"for Germany\" which deep inside their hearts they know are morally reprehensible. Like they are forced to gas their own parents, children or friends, they cannot disobey, these people had become Germany's enemies, so they instead vent their anger upon these unfortunate, innocent victims, blaming them FOR BEING THERE. I could have easily disliked this book because of the novel written in it. The novel's length alone makes it unattractive to one like me whose TBR list grows longer everytime I visit a bookstore (which is everyday). The paragraphs are long; Aue sounds ridiculous in his supposedly dramatic moments; those improbable coincidences in an otherwise historically-accurate events; unmemorable prose, pretentious declamations and, again, Aue's fountains of shit and vomit which you can practically smell in every page. But who cares? I had gone into an adventure, went to hell and now I'm back. Which novel you've read can boast of accomplishing something like this for its readers? Thus, four stars and to hell with its critics! ...more I believe this book is going to become a classic. I have looked at a number of reviews and I think a lot of people are disturbed by what they read, both by the descriptions of atrocities and by Max Aue's perverted character. It is true that it is a deeply disturbing book, but this does not in any way diminish the quality of the work. There is a lot to say about \"Les Bienveillantes\", and I suppose that its reception will diversify with time. The main reason why its is so deeply shocking is becaus I believe this book is going to become a classic. I have looked at a number of reviews and I think a lot of people are disturbed by what they read, both by the descriptions of atrocities and by Max Aue's perverted character. It is true that it is a deeply disturbing book, but this does not in any way diminish the quality of the work. There is a lot to say about \"Les Bienveillantes\", and I suppose that its reception will diversify with time. The main reason why its is so deeply shocking is because it explores and portrays evil both internally and externally. Max is both a common criminal, of his own volition, and a war criminal, within the context of the holocaust. Max Aue is a subjective correlative to what is going on around him. He is as deranged mentally as the world is deranged by the Second World War and the Holocaust. Caught between an inner and outer nightmare, Max Aue has nowhere to turn but culture. He reads, he listens to classical music, he enjoys architecture. Indeed his various interests seem portrayed even naively. In addition to this, he complains about the lack of good conversation when he is trapped with less intelligent or less educated soldiers, implying a form of (self-perceived) cultural sophistication. It is interesting to look at the people he comes close to and their occupations. Thomas is is closest friend, in the SS like him, he is alike a better version of himself, a party-going womanizer, honest, faithful an most importantly he is better at advancing his career than Max. Hohenegger is a cynical army doctor, who seems to be oblivious to the destruction and carnage around him. Voss is one of the most interesting, he is a linguist who follows Germany's invading armies into the Caucasus to study the local languages. In one particular exchange he gets angry about the lack of evidence supporting the racial theories of the Nazi regime. All three characters seems to have something that Max is missing, Thomas is a better version of himself at work, Hohenegger manages to stay aloof from the horror and Voss has more intellectual integrity. What characterises Max is a strong sense of fate, since his childhood and his separation from his sister (with whom he had an incestuous relation) he lives his life as if it was on a determined path. This fate seems to mirror the fate of the Third Reich, advancing slowly from horrendous crimes to destruction through 900 pages of genocide and war. He is a deeply incomplete man, he has lost his father, his sister, and he hates his mother. As he notes at one point, he is lucky to be in a war without having to worry about anyone waiting for him at home, since he doesn't have one. As the plot advances, the extent of his psychopathic personality emerges, showing its full extent in the final pages. The Holocaust is described through Max's eyes, which is all the more troubling as he is in the SD. He is a participant in the horrors of Baby Yar in Kiev and then later the concentration camp system. He does not seem particularly moved by what he sees, indeed he believes that he is just doing his job. The battle of Stalingrad and the fall of Berlin seem to be more disturbing for him, since he is on the losing side. This attitude is troubling to the reader because it makes sense from an egotistical point of view. The horror seems to touch him only when he is a potential victim. The only time he is shocked by the violence perpetrated by the Nazis is when he witnesses the death of Zoya Kosmodemyanskaya. He views her as a symbol of purity, and as such her death is totally pointless to him. The only answer I could give to the people who did not like this book because of the horrors described is first, you are right to be horrified, everyone should be. But also, no one should omit that what is described happened! the Holocaust is not just a convenient German-bashing concept! The Nazi regime deliberately destroyed millions of innocent lives. Now, the repercussions of the Holocaust are not finished, for the survivors of course, but also for the rest of humanity, although maybe more so in Europe where the war was fought. The question of how we are supposed to live or how any human activity is supposed to make sense after such horror is a question that was raised by authors such as Primo levi or Jorge Semprun. The Kindly Ones is only part of the process of trying to make sense. ...more Most of what has been said in criticism of this book has deeply misrepresented it: yes, there is horrible brutality well beyond simple war narration (which you will find in almost every post-WWI novel or non-fiction book). This brutality will disturb every reader (or should). Yes, some of the main character's sexual obsessions will make most readers squirm a bit even if they aren't exactly squeamish. But to read these elements as the basic character and most memorable aspects of the book is cher Most of what has been said in criticism of this book has deeply misrepresented it: yes, there is horrible brutality well beyond simple war narration (which you will find in almost every post-WWI novel or non-fiction book). This brutality will disturb every reader (or should). Yes, some of the main character's sexual obsessions will make most readers squirm a bit even if they aren't exactly squeamish. But to read these elements as the basic character and most memorable aspects of the book is cherry-picking--it's not a question of poor interpretation but just poor representation of the actual experience of reading this book. The representation of bureaucracy and the rather Mann-like dialogues peppering the book are, I feel, much closer to the heart of the experience of reading the novel--this is what drives the book forward and this is what really finds a home in the reader. I'm certainly not saying that everyone will find this book engaging, and I certainly dislike the attitude of some critics who are using this book to separate the wheat from the chaff, as it were. Asking anyone to read nearly a 1000 pages is a little presumptuous, and 1000 pages that contains maybe 75-100 extremely brutal and/or scatological pages even more so. I think the book justifies its inclusion of those 100 or so pages, and I think those 100 pages are critical to an understanding of the book, but I do not think they are, as they have been made out to be, the whole book, nor do they saturate the book. If you have merely been put off by the negative reviews, but were originally intending to read this book, please do. ...more \u0412 \u043d\u0430\u0447\u0430\u043b\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0447\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0445 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u043b\u0438 \u0441\u043c\u0438\u0441\u044a\u043b \u0434\u0430 \u044f \u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438/\u0444\u0438\u043b\u043c\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0412\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u0437\u0430 \u0425\u043e\u043b\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u2026 \u041d\u043e \u0431\u044a\u0440\u0437\u043e \u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430 \u044f\u0441\u043d\u043e, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0435 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u0437\u0430 1-5-20 \u043c\u0438\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u0440\u0442\u0432\u0438 \u2013 \u0440\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438, \u043f\u043e\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438, \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438 \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0446\u0438. \u0422\u0443\u043a \u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441 \u0437\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u043f\u043e-\u0433\u043b\u043e\u0431\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u2013 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e; \u0438 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043d\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0434\u0435\u043b\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u0430 \u043b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442. \u0412\u0441\u044a\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a, \u043a\u043e\u0439\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0443\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0438\u043a\u0430 \u0438 \u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438\u044f. \u0422\u0443\u043a \u0438 \u0430\u0437 \u043f\u043e-\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0440\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0427\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u0430 (\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u0430?). \u0412 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043c\u0435\u0442\u043a\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430, \u043d\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u044a\u043d\u0437 \u0412 \u043d\u0430\u0447\u0430\u043b\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0447\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0445 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u043b\u0438 \u0441\u043c\u0438\u0441\u044a\u043b \u0434\u0430 \u044f \u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438/\u0444\u0438\u043b\u043c\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0412\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u0437\u0430 \u0425\u043e\u043b\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u2026 \u041d\u043e \u0431\u044a\u0440\u0437\u043e \u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430 \u044f\u0441\u043d\u043e, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0435 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u0437\u0430 1-5-20 \u043c\u0438\u043b\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u0440\u0442\u0432\u0438 \u2013 \u0440\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438, \u043f\u043e\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438, \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438 \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0446\u0438. \u0422\u0443\u043a \u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441 \u0437\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u043f\u043e-\u0433\u043b\u043e\u0431\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u2013 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e; \u0438 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043d\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0434\u0435\u043b\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u0430 \u043b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442. \u0412\u0441\u044a\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a, \u043a\u043e\u0439\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0443\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0438\u043a\u0430 \u0438 \u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438\u044f. \u0422\u0443\u043a \u0438 \u0430\u0437 \u043f\u043e-\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0440\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0427\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u0430 (\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u0430?). \u0412 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043c\u0435\u0442\u043a\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430, \u043d\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u044a\u043d\u0437\u0435\u043c\u043d\u0438\u2026 \u041d\u0435 \u0431\u044f\u0445 \u0447\u0435\u043b\u0430/\u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043b\u0430 \u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0442\u044a\u0447\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0447\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043a\u0438 \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440\u0438, \u043f\u043e-\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0449\u0430\u043c\u0435 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438/\u0444\u0438\u043b\u043c\u0438 \u043e\u0442 \u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043d\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0447\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435 (\u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0440\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u043c\u0435\u0440\u043d\u0430\u043b \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d \u0434\u0435\u0442\u0430\u0439\u043b \u0432 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u2013 \u043a\u0430\u043a \u201e\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0435\u0449\u0438\u044f\u0442\u201c \u0432 \u043a\u043e\u043d\u0446\u043b\u0430\u0433\u0435\u0440 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043a\u0438 \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e \u0435 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a, \u043a\u043e\u0439\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0443\u0442\u0440\u0438\u043d \u0446\u0435\u043b\u0443\u0432\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u0438 \u0434\u0435\u0442\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0442\u0440\u044a\u0433\u043d\u0435 \u0437\u0430 \u201e\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0430\u201c). \u0417\u0430\u0431\u0435\u043b\u044f\u0437\u0430\u0445, \u0447\u0435 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0430 \u0422\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u043f\u043e\u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043d\u0430\u0445 \u043f\u043e-\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430\u0442\u044a\u043a \u0438 \u0432\u0438\u0434\u044f\u0445, \u0447\u0435 \u0438 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0438 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0442 \u043d\u0430\u0438\u043c\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0447\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u044e\u0438\u0442\u0430 \u2013 \u0421\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0431\u0430\u043d\u0434\u0430, \u041c\u0435\u043d\u0443\u0435\u0442, \u0416\u0438\u0433\u0430\u2026 \u041f\u043e\u0437\u0430\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438\u043b\u0430 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u043c\u0443\u0437\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u0444\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0438, \u043d\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0441 \u0441\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0447\u0435\u0440\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0438 \u0430\u0444\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0435\u0441\u0435\u0441\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0446 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043c\u0443\u0437\u0438\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u0438\u0437\u043e\u0431\u0449\u043e \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0438\u0437\u043a\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430. \u0412\u044a\u0432 \u0444\u0438\u043b\u043c\u0438 \u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438 \u0441\u043c\u0435 \u0432\u0438\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438, \u0447\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438 \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0445\u0430\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u043a\u043b\u0430\u0441\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0443\u0437\u0438\u043a\u0430. \u0417\u0430\u0449\u043e \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0441\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f\u043b\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0433\u0440\u0435\u0448\u043d\u043e, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u044f \u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0430\u0437\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u201e\u0432\u044a\u0437\u0432\u0438\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u201c \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u044a\u043d \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u0438\u0434\u0435\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0438\u044f?! \u0410 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043a\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440 \u0432 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0443\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u043c\u0443\u0437\u0438\u043a\u0430, \u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0443\u0440\u0430, \u0444\u0438\u043b\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0444\u0438\u044f. \u041e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u043d\u043e (\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0442\u0438\u0432\u043d\u043e) \u0435 \u201e\u043e\u0431\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e\u201c \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0425\u043e\u043b\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430, \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u043e\u0449\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u043e\u0442\u0447\u0430\u0439\u0432\u0430\u0449\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u043d. \u0427\u0443\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0431\u0435\u0437 \u043c\u043e\u0437\u044a\u043a \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0447\u0443\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0441 \u043c\u043e\u0437\u044a\u043a. \u041a\u043e\u0435 \u0435 \u0437\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043f\u043e\u0447\u0438\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0435? \u0410\u043a\u043e \u0438\u0437\u043e\u0431\u0449\u043e... \u0418 \u043d\u0430\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0437\u0432\u0443\u0447\u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0447\u0442\u0438 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0443\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e, \u0432 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u044a\u0432 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0430\u0439 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438\u0447\u043d\u043e-\u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0441\u043a\u043e. \u201e\u0417\u0430\u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0441 \u0422\u043e\u043c\u0430\u0441 \u0438 \u0434-\u0440 \u0424\u0440\u0430\u0439, \u0431\u0438\u0432\u0448 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0436\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b \u043d\u0430 SD, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0438\u043d\u0430\u043b \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0422\u043e\u043c\u0430\u0441 \u0432 Staatspolizei, \u0431\u044f\u0445 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043e\u0447\u043d\u0430\u043b \u0434\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0438\u0441\u043a\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0443\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043a\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0441\u043e\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430.\u201c (view spoiler) [\u201e\u0410\u043a\u043e \u0441\u0442\u0435 \u0440\u043e\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0432 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0430 \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435, \u043a\u044a\u0434\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435 \u0438\u0434\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0435 \u0432\u0430\u0448\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0430, \u0432\u0430\u0448\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0434\u0435\u0446\u0430, \u043d\u043e \u0438 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435 \u0438\u0441\u043a\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u0432\u0430\u0441 \u0434\u0430 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0435 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438 \u0434\u0435\u0446\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0442\u043e \u0431\u043b\u0430\u0433\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0440\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0411\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u0438 \u0441\u0438 \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u0441 \u043c\u0438\u0440. \u041d\u043e \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0432\u044f\u0439\u0442\u0435: \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0442\u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435 \u043a\u044a\u0441\u043c\u0435\u0442 \u043e\u0442 \u043c\u0435\u043d, \u043d\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0438. \u0417\u0430\u0449\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0430\u043a\u043e \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0433\u043b\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0442\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0435, \u0441 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043e\u0447\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0448\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e.\u201c \u201e\u041a\u0430\u043a\u0442\u043e \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430, \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0438\u0441\u043a\u0430\u043b \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0435\u0446. \u0412\u0435\u0447\u0435 \u0433\u043e \u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u0445, \u0430\u043a\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435\u0445, \u0449\u044f\u0445 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043d\u0438\u043c\u0430\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0441 \u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0443\u0440\u0430. \u0414\u0430 \u043f\u0438\u0448\u0430, \u0430\u043a\u043e \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0445 \u0442\u0430\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0442, \u0430\u043a\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u2013 \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043f\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430\u043c; \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0435, \u043d\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u0435\u044f \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u0435, \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0442\u0432\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u0436\u0438.\u201c (hide spoiler) ] \u0412 \u043d\u0430\u0447\u0430\u043b\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0432\u043d\u0438\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0432\u043b\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0434\u0435\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0438: \u201e\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u0438 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0439\u0441\u043a\u0438 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u0442\u0435\u0445\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0434\u0435\u0446\u0430\u201c??! \u0421\u044a\u0449\u043e \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430: \u201e\u0438\u0437\u043a\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u201c, \u201c\u0438\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0447\u043a\u0430\u201c, \u201e\u0435\u043b\u0435\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0442\u043d\u043e\u201c. \u041a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0438 \u0445\u0443\u0431\u0430\u0432\u0438 \u043b\u044e\u0431\u0438\u043c\u0438 \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438. \u0410 \u0435\u0442\u043e \u043a\u0430\u043a \u0441\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438: \u201e\u2026\u0432\u043e\u0435\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438\u0437\u043a\u0443\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u201c; \u201e\u0413\u0430\u0437\u044a\u0442, \u043e\u0431\u044f\u0441\u043d\u0438 \u0442\u043e\u0439, \u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u0435\u043b\u0435\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0442\u043d\u043e \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e.\u201c; \u201e\u0417\u0430\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0445\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0435\u0442\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0438 \u043a\u0430\u043c\u0438\u043e\u043d \u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0441\u043e\u0431\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0438 \u043e\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0433\u0430\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0435, \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0434\u0443\u0448\u0438 \u043d\u0430\u043c\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0449\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u044a\u0442\u0440\u0435 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430; \u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e, \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u0443 \u043b\u0438\u043f\u0441\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u043d\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0435\u043b\u0435\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442, \u043d\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0438\u043a\u043e\u043d\u043e\u043c\u0438\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442.\u201c; \u0437\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0433\u0430\u0437\u043e\u0432 \u043a\u0430\u043c\u0438\u043e\u043d: \u201e\u0411\u043b\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043b \u0431\u0435 \u0432\u044a\u043e\u0434\u0443\u0448\u0435\u0432\u0435\u043d: \u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0447\u043a\u0430 \u043c\u0443 \u0445\u0430\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435, \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0442\u044a\u0440\u043f\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u044f \u0438\u0437\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0430.\u201c \u041e\u0449\u0435: \u201e\u0441\u043f\u0435\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u043a\u0430\u201c (\u0443\u043c\u044a\u0440\u0442\u0432\u044f\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e, \u0442.\u0435. \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435) \u2013 \u0438 \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u044f, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u0438\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0437 \u0441\u0435 \u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430, \u0437\u0430\u0449\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e \u0433\u043e\u043b\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0442\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0442 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0435\u044f\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u041d\u0421 \u0431\u044e\u0440\u043e\u043a\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0438\u0447\u0435\u043d \u0435\u0437\u0438\u043a\u2026 \u0417\u0430 \u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0434\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u0433\u0430\u0437 \u0437\u0430 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430 \u201e\u041c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0435 \u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0438.\u201c \u041e\u0431\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u0434\u0435\u044f\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0442 \u0441 \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u201e\u043e\u0441\u044a\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u201c \u0438 \u201e\u043f\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0438\u201c. \u0418 \u0434\u0432\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0430\u0431\u0441\u0443\u0440\u0434\u043d\u0438! \u0414\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440 \u0410\u0443\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u0431\u0435\u043b\u044f\u0437\u0432\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0447\u0440\u0435\u0437 b\u00fcrokratisches Amtsdeutsch \u0441\u0435 \u0438\u0437\u0431\u044f\u0433\u0432\u0430 \u043b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u2013 \u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u0430\u0441\u0438\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u0444\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0430, \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u044f\u0441\u043d\u043e \u043a\u043e\u0439 \u0435 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0448\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044f\u0442: \u201e\u0431\u0435 \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0435\u043d\u043e\u201c, \u201e\u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0431\u044f\u0445\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u043b\u043e\u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043f\u0435\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u043c\u0435\u0440\u043a\u0438\u201c\u2026 \u0418\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u043d\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0438 \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u201e\u0441\u043f\u0435\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u201c \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438 \u043e\u0442 \u0435\u0437\u0438\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0431\u044e\u0440\u043e\u043a\u0440\u0430\u0446\u0438\u044f \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u043c\u0441\u043a\u0438, \u043c\u0430\u043a\u0430\u0440 \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u0447\u0443\u0434\u0438\u0445 \u043f\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u043b\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u0436\u0435\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0435\u0444\u0435\u043a\u0442 \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0437\u043d\u0430\u044f\u0442 \u043d\u0435\u043c\u0441\u043a\u0438. \u0421\u043f\u043e\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u043e\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0434\u043e\u043f\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0430\u0441\u044f\u0442 \u0437\u0430 \u0443\u0441\u0435\u0449\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0443\u0445\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0441\u043e\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430 \u0438 \u0446\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0443 \u043e\u0440\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0437\u0430\u0446\u0438\u044f. \u0415\u0442\u043e \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u0438 \u043e\u0442 \u201e\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430\u201c \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438\u0434\u0435\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0438\u044f \u2013 Rasenschande (\u0440\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0432\u043e o\u043c\u044a\u0440\u0441\u044f\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435), Entdeutschung (\u0434\u0435\u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0437\u0430\u0446\u0438\u044f), Endl\u00f6sung (\u043e\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0447\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435) \u0438 \u0442.\u043d. \u041d\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u043c\u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e \u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0430 \u0432 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0447\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0438 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0441\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435, \u0441\u0435\u043b\u0430, \u0433\u0430\u0440\u0438 \u2013 \u043d\u0430\u0432\u0441\u044f\u043a\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u0438\u0437 \u043d\u0435\u043e\u0431\u044f\u0442\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u041f\u043e\u043b\u0448\u0430, \u0423\u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u041a\u0430\u0432\u043a\u0430\u0437. \u041e\u0449\u0435 \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d \u0432\u0430\u0436\u0435\u043d \u0435\u043b\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0442 - \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0437 50-100 \u0441\u0442\u0440. \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0435\u0442\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e. \u041e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440 \u0410\u0443\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0442\u044f\u0445 \u043e\u0442 \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u0441 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0438 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0441\u044a\u0436\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f. \u041d\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0442\u0430 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043c\u0430\u0439\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0430\u043d\u0442\u0438-\u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u044a\u0442 \u0441\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0442\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0432\u0430: \u201e\u0441\u0435\u0433\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043c\u0438 \u0431\u044f\u0445\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433 \u043f\u043e\u0440\u044f\u0434\u044a\u043a, \u0433\u043e\u0440\u0447\u0438\u0432\u0438, \u0438\u0437\u043f\u044a\u043b\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0441 \u043e\u043c\u0440\u0430\u0437\u0430, \u0441 \u043e\u0442\u0441\u0435\u043d\u043a\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0440\u0430\u043c. \u041a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u0431\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043e\u0447\u043d\u0430\u043b\u043e \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430? \u041e\u0449\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0440\u0430\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043c\u0438? \u0412\u044a\u0437\u043c\u043e\u0436\u043d\u043e \u043b\u0438 \u0435 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0431\u044f\u0445 \u0443\u0441\u043f\u044f\u043b \u0434\u0430 \u0439 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u044f \u043c\u043e\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0440\u0430\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u2013 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0443\u043c\u043d\u043e \u0430\u0440\u043e\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0442\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043e, \u043a\u043e\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u0431\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0441\u0432\u043e\u0438\u043b\u0430?\u201c (\u0421\u043f\u043e\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0430\u0439\u043d\u043e, \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0435\u0442\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0432 \u043d\u043e\u0432 \u043f\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444 \u2013 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0442\u043e \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0441\u044a\u0436\u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0410\u0443\u0435, \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0434\u043d\u044a\u0436 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430 \u0432 \u0434\u0435\u0442\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e, \u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0435 \u043f\u0430\u043a \u0432\u043d\u0435\u0437\u0430\u043f\u043d\u043e \u0431\u0435\u0437 \u043d\u043e\u0432 \u043f\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444 \u0441\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u0432\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u043c\u044f\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u0412\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430). \u0414\u0438\u0430\u043b\u043e\u0437\u0438\u0442\u0435 - \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0440\u043d\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u0437\u0432\u0443\u0447\u0430\u0445\u0430. \u0414\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0435 \u043e\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0437\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u043c\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435\u0440\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0449\u0443\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u0432 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0443\u043a\u0442\u0443\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0441\u043e\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430 (\u043d\u043e \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430-\u043c\u0435\u043c\u043e\u0430\u0440 \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u044f\u043a\u0430 \u0440\u0435\u0447, \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0447\u044a\u0442 \u0433\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0432 \u043a\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0438, \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0438 \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043d\u043e\u0432\u0438 \u0430\u0431\u0437\u0430\u0446\u0438 \u0438 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0438, \u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u043e\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e\u043d\u0435\u043d \u0442\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0442 \u2013 \u0434\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u0447\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0432\u0438\u0437\u0443\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e.) \u0423\u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0435\u043d \u043e\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0437 \u043d\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0439 - \u041c\u0430\u043a\u0441\u0438\u043c\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0430\u043d \u0410\u0443\u0435. \u041c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0447\u0435\u0442\u0435\u043d \u0438 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u043b\u0438\u0433\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0435\u043d, \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0438, \u043b\u0438\u043d\u0433\u0432\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u0438\u0434\u0435\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0438 \u0438\u0437\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0447\u0440\u0435\u0437 \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0447\u0440\u0435\u0437 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0438. \u041d\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0440\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043c\u0443 \u0441\u0430 \u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0431\u0438\u043b\u043d\u0438. \u041a\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430; \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0438 \u0434\u0435\u0442\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438, \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0438 \u0440\u0430\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 (\u201c\u0422\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0440\u0430\u0434\u0432\u0430\u0448, \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u0438 \u0436\u0438\u0432. - \u0414\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0440\u0430\u0434\u0432\u0430\u043c, \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0436\u0438\u0432? \u0421\u0442\u0440\u0443\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0443\u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e, \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0442\u043e \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0441\u0435 \u0440\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043b.\u201c) \u0410 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0443 \u0438 \u0443\u043f\u043e\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0430 \u201e\u043b\u044e\u0431\u043e\u0432\u201c \u2013 \u0447\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0445 \u0441\u0435 \u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u043e\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0447\u0430\u0432\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u041c\u0430\u043a\u0441 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0447\u0438\u0442\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0441\u043f\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d \u0434\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0438\u0447\u0430 \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0431\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u043e\u0431\u0438\u0447\u0430\u043d \u043e\u0442 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433, \u0441\u0442\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u043c\u0443 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0433\u0430\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0442\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043b\u044e\u0431\u043e\u0432 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0430, \u043c\u0430\u043a\u0430\u0440 \u0447\u0435 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e \u0432 \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0430\u2026 O\u0441\u0432\u0435\u043d \u043c\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0442\u0440\u0435\u0431\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u043c\u044a\u0440\u0442\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u201e\u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0438\u201c \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430 \u2013 \u041c\u0430\u043a\u0441 \u0410\u0443\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u043f\u0430\u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u044f\u0445 \u0438 \u043c\u0443 \u0435 \u0442\u0435\u0436\u043a\u043e, \u043d\u0435 \u0442\u044a\u0440\u043f\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0430\u2026 \u0421\u0442\u0440\u0443\u0432\u0430 \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0434\u044a\u043b\u0436\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u044a\u043b\u0431\u043e\u043a\u0430 \u0445\u0443\u043c\u0430\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 - \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u0435 \u0433\u043d\u0443\u0441\u043b\u0438\u0432 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u044a\u0442, \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0438 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0437\u0430 \u0441\u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0435\u0434\u043b\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0438 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442, \u043c\u0430\u043a\u0430\u0440 \u0447\u0435 \u0438\u043d\u0430\u0447\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e \u0435 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u0433\u043d\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0438 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438 \u0438 \u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u044f. \u0417\u0430\u043f\u043e\u043c\u043d\u044f\u0449 \u0441\u0435 \u0435 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0440 \u043c\u0435\u0436\u0434\u0443 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043a\u0438\u044f \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440 \u0438 \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0443\u043d\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0438\u044f \u201e\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0440\u0443\u043a\u201c. \u041d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0437\u044a\u043c \u2248 \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0443\u043d\u0438\u0437\u044a\u043c?! (view spoiler) [\u201c\u0412\u0435\u0440\u043e\u044f\u0442\u043d\u043e \u0432 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043a\u0440\u0438\u0435 \u043e\u0433\u0440\u043e\u043c\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0438\u043c\u0443\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0440\u0435\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0438\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u043d\u0430\u0434 \u0441\u043b\u0430\u0431\u0438\u0442\u0435: \u0438 \u0435\u0434\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0438 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u044f\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u043e\u0442 \u0442\u0440\u0435\u0432\u043e\u0433\u0438, \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0445\u043e\u0432\u0435, \u0441\u044a\u043c\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f, \u043d\u043e \u0441\u043b\u0430\u0431\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0433\u043e \u0437\u043d\u0430\u044f\u0442 \u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0430\u0442 \u043e\u0442 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430, \u0434\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0435 \u0433\u043e \u0432\u0438\u0436\u0434\u0430\u0442, \u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0437\u0434\u0440\u0430\u0432\u044f\u0442 \u043e\u0449\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u043a\u043e\u044f\u0442\u043e \u0433\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043f\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0434\u044a\u043d\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0434\u043d\u0430, \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0431\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430\u0442 \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0449\u0443 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0447\u0438\u044f\u0442\u043e \u0442\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0434\u0435 \u044f\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u043a\u0440\u0435\u0445\u043a\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043b\u0430\u0448\u0432\u0430 \u0442\u044f\u0445\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043a\u0440\u0435\u0445\u043a\u0430 \u0443\u0432\u0435\u0440\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442. \u0422\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u0441\u043b\u0430\u0431\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043b\u0430\u0448\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0441\u0438\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043d\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043d\u0430\u0441\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0435 \u0438 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0435\u0437\u043f\u043e\u0449\u0430\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0440\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0432\u044a\u0440\u0445\u0443 \u0442\u044f\u0445. \u0418 \u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0441\u043b\u044f\u043f\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u043d\u0435\u0443\u0434\u044a\u0440\u0436\u0438\u043c\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0441\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0435 \u0443\u0434\u0430\u0440\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u0439 \u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043f\u043e-\u0441\u0438\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0441\u0442\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u044f\u0445\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0443\u0432\u0435\u0440\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u043f\u0443\u043a\u0432\u0430: \u0447\u0430\u043a \u0442\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u0439 \u0440\u0435\u0434 \u0441\u0438 \u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0441\u043c\u0435\u0442\u043a\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0433\u0438 \u043e\u0447\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0430 \u0438 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0442, \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438. \u0422\u043e\u0447\u043d\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u044a\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u043e\u0442 6-\u0430 \u0430\u0440\u043c\u0438\u044f, \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0433\u043e\u0440\u0434\u0438, \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0434\u043c\u0435\u043d\u043d\u0438, \u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0441\u043c\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u0440\u0443\u0441\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0434\u0438\u0432\u0438\u0437\u0438\u0438, \u043e\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0431\u0432\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u0446\u0438\u0432\u0438\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0438\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043c\u0443\u0445\u0438 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0437\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435: \u0441\u0435\u0433\u0430, \u043d\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u043c\u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0441\u044a\u0432\u0435\u0442\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0430\u0440\u0442\u0438\u043b\u0435\u0440\u0438\u044f \u0438 \u0441\u043d\u0430\u0439\u043f\u0435\u0440\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438, \u043e\u0442 \u0441\u0442\u0443\u0434\u0430, \u0431\u043e\u043b\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0434\u0430, \u0433\u0438 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0431\u0430\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0434\u0438\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u0442\u0440\u0435\u0448\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0432. \u0422\u043e\u0439 \u0441\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0434\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0438 \u0432 \u043c\u0435\u043d, \u043f\u0430\u0440\u043b\u0438\u0432 \u0438 \u0432\u043e\u043d\u044f\u0449 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0441\u043b\u0430\u0434\u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0440\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u2026\u201c (hide spoiler) ] \u041d\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u0432 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 (\u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u0435\u043a\u0438 \u0441\u043c\u0440\u0430\u0437\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0449\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0443\u0436\u0430\u0441\u0438 \u0432 \u043d\u0435\u044f - \u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430 \u043b\u0438 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e, \u043a\u043e\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u043c\u0435 \u0447\u0435\u043b\u0438/\u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438 (\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0430\u0433\u0430\u043b\u0438), \u0447\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0432\u0430\u043b\u043e \u043f\u043e \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0432 \u043a\u043e\u043d\u0446\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043b\u0430\u0433\u0435\u0440\u0438) - \u0442\u0443\u043a \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0435 \u201e\u043e\u0431\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u043e\u201c. \u0421\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430 \u0447\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438 \u0441 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u0438 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043a\u0440\u0438\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0447\u0438\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0441\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e \u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0430\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0446\u0435\u0441\u0438 \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0449\u0443 \u0432\u043e\u0435\u043d\u043d\u043e\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0442\u044a\u043f\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 1945 \u0433. \u0441\u0430 \u0447\u0443\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u0438 \u043e\u0431\u044f\u0441\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f. \u041d\u043e \u0430\u0437 \u0437\u0430 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438 \u043f\u044a\u0442 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0449\u0430\u043c \u0441 \u0442\u044f\u0445. \u0427\u0443\u0432\u0430\u043b\u0430 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e, \u0447\u0435 \u043e\u0431\u0432\u0438\u043d\u044f\u0435\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0446\u0435\u0441\u0438 \u0438\u0441\u043a\u0440\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0434\u043e\u0443\u043c\u044f\u0432\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u0441 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0433\u0440\u0435\u0448\u0438\u043b\u0438 (\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u043f\u043e-\u043a\u044a\u0441\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0432 \u0431\u0438\u0432\u0448\u0430 \u042e\u0433\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0438\u044f). \u0415\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0438\u043c\u0435\u0440 \u0447\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u043f\u044a\u0437\u0435\u043b\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u201e\u043e\u0431\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430\u201c: (view spoiler) [\u201e\u041f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0438\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0445 \u0434\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0436\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0430\u043a\u043e \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0434\u043e\u0431\u044a\u0440, \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0442\u043e \u0442\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0434\u044f\u0445\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0435\u0442\u0438 \u0438 \u0444\u0438\u043b\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0444\u0438, \u0442\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0440\u043e\u0434\u043d\u043e \u043b\u043e\u0448: \u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u0437\u043b\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0440\u0438\u0438, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0443\u0436\u0430\u0442 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u044f\u0442 \u043f\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0438\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0430\u0434\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a \u0441\u043f\u0440\u044f\u043c\u043e \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433, \u043d\u043e \u0441\u043f\u043e\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u0441\u0430 \u0434\u044a\u043b\u0431\u043e\u043a\u043e \u043d\u0435\u043f\u0440\u0438\u0433\u043e\u0434\u043d\u0438, \u0434\u0430\u0436\u0435 \u043d\u0435\u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0435\u043c\u0438, \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0446\u0435\u043d\u0438\u043c \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0432\u0430 \u0432 \u0441\u044a\u0440\u0446\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a. \u0414\u044c\u043e\u043b \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u043a\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430, \u0437\u043d\u0430\u0447\u0438 \u0435 \u0417\u043b\u043e\u0442\u043e; \u043d\u043e \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e \u043f\u043e \u0441\u0435\u0431\u0435 \u0441\u0438 \u0442\u043e\u043a \u0431\u0435 \u0434\u043e\u0431\u044a\u0440 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0431\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0438 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a, \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0447\u0435\u043d \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438, \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435, \u0441\u044a\u0431\u043b\u044e\u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0449 \u0437\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435. \u041a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435 \u0438\u0441\u043a\u0430\u043c\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u043a\u043e\u0439\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0435\u043d \u0433\u0440\u0430\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0438\u043d. \u041d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0448\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0446\u0438\u0432\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u0434\u0435\u043c\u043e\u043a\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0433\u0440\u0430\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0435? \u0418 \u043a\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e \u0444\u0438\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0442\u0440\u043e\u043f\u0438 \u043f\u043e \u0446\u0435\u043b\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0432\u044f\u0442, \u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u0438 \u0441 \u0435\u043a\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0442\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u0449\u0435\u0434\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442, \u0432\u0441\u044a\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0441\u0430 \u0435\u0433\u043e\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0443\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0447\u0443\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0449\u0430, \u0436\u0430\u0434\u043d\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0430, \u0438\u0437\u043f\u044a\u043b\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u044a\u0441 \u0441\u0443\u0435\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442, \u0442\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0431\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0438. \u0412\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0438 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0434\u043e\u0432\u043e\u043b\u0438 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0443\u0436\u0434\u0438 \u0438 \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0447\u0435\u043d \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043d\u0443\u0436\u0434\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435. \u0418 \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043c\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u0435\u044f\u0442 \u0437\u0430\u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e, \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u0431\u0435\u0433\u043d\u0435\u043c \u043e\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0425\u043e\u0431\u0441 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0441\u0442\u043e\u044f\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u201e\u0432\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0438 \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0449\u0443 \u0432\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0438\u201c, \u0430, \u043d\u0430\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0442\u0438\u0432, \u0431\u043b\u0430\u0433\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0437\u0442\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0449\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0432\u0437\u0430\u0438\u043c\u043e\u043f\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0449 \u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0448\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0437\u0432\u043e\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0434\u043e\u0432\u043e\u043b\u044f\u0432\u0430\u043c\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435 \u0442\u0435\u0445\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0436\u0435\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435, \u043d\u0435\u043e\u0431\u0445\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0430 \u0440\u0435\u0433\u0443\u043b\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0449\u0438 \u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0446\u0438\u0438, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u043e\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u044f\u0442 \u0433\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u0436\u0435\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u0440\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0442\u0435: \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u043c\u0435\u0445\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0437\u044a\u043c \u0435 \u0417\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d\u044a\u0442. \u041d\u043e \u0435 \u043d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u0435\u0433\u043e\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0432\u043e\u043b\u0435\u0432\u0438, \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0435\u043c\u0430\u0442 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043d\u0443\u0434\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0417\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0430, \u0430 \u0442\u044f \u0442\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u043d\u0448\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043f\u0440\u044f\u043c\u043e \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u0430 \u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0446\u0438\u044f, \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0438\u043b\u0430, \u043a\u043e\u044f\u0442\u043e \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a \u0432\u044a\u0437\u043f\u0440\u0438\u0435\u043c\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043f\u043e-\u0432\u0438\u0441\u0448\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u0441\u0435\u0431\u0435 \u0441\u0438. \u2026 \u0411\u0438\u0431\u043b\u0435\u0439\u0441\u043a\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0437\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d \u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430: \u043d\u0435 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0439 \u2013 \u0438 \u043d\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0432\u0438\u0436\u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0438\u0437\u043a\u043b\u044e\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435; \u043d\u043e \u0432\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0438 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u043d \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0445\u0440\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u044f\u043d\u0438\u043d \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0435\u043c\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u043f\u043e \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u0437\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0442\u043c\u0435\u043d\u044f, \u0447\u0435 \u0435 \u0441\u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0435\u0434\u043b\u0438\u0432\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0443\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0448 \u0432\u0440\u0430\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u044f \u043d\u0430\u0440\u043e\u0434, \u0447\u0435 \u0432 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u044a\u0432 \u0433\u0440\u044f\u0445; \u0449\u043e\u043c \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043a\u043b\u044e\u0447\u0438 \u0438 \u043e\u0440\u044a\u0436\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0431\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442, \u0441\u0442\u0430\u0440\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0437\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u043c\u0438\u0440\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0438 \u0445\u043e\u0434, \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0447\u0435 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u043b\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043a\u044a\u0441\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435. \u0422\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0446\u0430 \u2013 \u0434\u0430 \u0431\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u0434\u043e\u0431\u044a\u0440 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0446, \u043e\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0447\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0447\u0438\u043d\u044f\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u2013 \u043d\u0430 \u0424\u044e\u0440\u0435\u0440\u0430\u2026\u201c (hide spoiler) ] \u0418 \u0442.\u043d. \u0438 \u0442.\u043d. \u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u0438 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0441\u044a\u0436\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043e\u0442 \u043f\u043e \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0442\u0435\u043c\u0438, \u0432\u043a\u043b\u044e\u0447\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0438 \u043a\u043e\u043d\u043a\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u0430\u043d\u0442\u0438\u0441\u0435\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430 (\u0430 \u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0440\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u2013 \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u201e\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0438\u201c; \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430 \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u044f\u0441\u043d\u043e \u2013 \u043e\u0441\u0432\u0435\u043d \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0438 \u043d\u0435\u0443\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0441\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e \u0438 \u0433\u043e\u043b\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0447\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442, \u0437\u0430\u0449\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u0441\u0447\u0438\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u201e\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u0438\u201c). \u0418\u043c\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438 \u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0411\u043e\u0433, \u0437\u0430 \u0414\u043e\u0431\u0440\u043e \u0438 \u0417\u043b\u043e, \u0430\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u0440\u0435\u043b\u0438\u0433\u0438\u0438, \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0438, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u043d\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0444\u0438\u043b\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0444\u0438\u0438\u2026 \u041c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0443\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0445\u0432\u044a\u0440\u043b\u044f\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u044a\u043b\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0432\u044a\u0440\u0445\u0443 \u0417\u0430\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0430. \u0412\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0437\u0432\u0443\u0447\u0438 \u0443\u0431\u0435\u0434\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0432 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u0438 \u0430\u0441\u043f\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0438, \u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u0432 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043c\u0435\u0442\u043a\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0432\u0435\u0436\u0434\u0430 \u0434\u043e \u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e: \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u201e\u0442\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0447\u0435\u043d\u201c, \u0441\u0442\u0438\u0441\u043d\u0430\u0442, \u0435\u0433\u043e\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u0435\u043d, \u0441\u0443\u0435\u0442\u0435\u043d - \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0435, \u0443\u0436 \u201e\u043b\u043e\u0448\u043e\u201c - \u043d\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043d\u044f\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0442\u043d\u0435\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u0438 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u2026 \u0432 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0435 \u043c\u0430\u0449\u0430\u0431\u0438\u2026 \u041d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0441\u043a\u043b\u043e\u043d\u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0434\u0435\u043b\u044f \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u044a\u0436\u0435 \u0438 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438 (\u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0423\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0430\u043c \u0423\u043e\u0440\u0442\u044a\u043d \u0438\u0441\u043a\u0430\u043c \u0434\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u044f \u0437\u0430 \u0442\u044f\u0445 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u0431\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438) \u0438 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u043a\u043b\u044e\u0447\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0432 \u043f\u043e\u043f\u0443\u043b\u044f\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u201e \u043c\u044a\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0438\u0432\u0430\u2026\u201c, \u201e\u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u043e\u043d\u0430\u043a\u0438\u0432\u0430\u2026\u201c. \u0421\u0435\u0433\u0430 \u0441 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0438 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u044f \u0433\u043d\u0435\u0432\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043c\u044a\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0435 (\u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u043d\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0437\u0430 \u2013 \u043a\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0430 \u0440\u043e\u043b\u044f \u043b\u0438 \u0441\u0430 \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430\u043b\u0438). \u0422\u044a\u043a\u043c\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u0437\u0430\u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0445 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u201e\u043e\u0431\u0438\u043a\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435\u201c \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0446\u0438 (\u043f\u0440\u0438\u043c\u0435\u0440\u043d\u043e \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0443\u0447\u0430\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u043f\u0440\u044f\u043a\u043e \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430) \u2013 \u043a\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0438, \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0435\u043b\u0438, \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0442 \u043b\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u044a\u0441\u0442 \u0432 \u0446\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0430 \u2013 \u0438 \u041b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b \u0437\u0430\u0441\u0435\u0433\u043d\u0430 \u0438 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u0442\u0435\u043c\u0430. \u0421\u0430\u043c \u0410\u0443\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e \u0433\u043e \u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430 \u201e \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0447\u0438 \u043c\u044a\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0411\u043e\u0433 \u0435 \u0434\u0430\u043b \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u044a\u0436\u0435\u0442\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430\u201c (\u0437\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u2013 \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0437\u043a\u0430 \u0441 \u0445\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0443\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430). \u0418 \u0434\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u0445\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0443\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u0438 \u0435 \u0438\u0434\u0432\u0430\u043b\u043e \u043e\u0442\u0432\u044a\u0442\u0440\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430\u043c \u043e\u043d\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u043e\u0431\u0438\u0434\u043d\u0438 \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0438 \u0438 \u0438\u0437\u043e\u0431\u0449\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0438 \u043a\u0430\u043f\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u043f\u0440\u0438\u044f\u0437\u044a\u043d, \u0437\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0431\u0438\u0445 \u043a\u0430\u0437\u0430\u043b\u0430 \u201e\u0425\u0435\u0439, \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u2013 \u0441 \u043c\u0430\u043b\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438 \u0433\u043e\u043b\u0435\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0438!!!\u201c \u0427\u0443\u0432\u0430\u043b\u0430 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0438 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u043e\u0442 \u0440\u043e\u0434\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0438 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438. \u041e\u0431\u0430\u0447\u0435 \u0432 \u0431\u043b\u0438\u0437\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0432\u0435\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u201e\u0440\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0442\u0438\u0437\u044a\u043c\u201c \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0435\u0432\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0430\u0439 \u043b\u0438\u043f\u0441\u0432\u0430. \u041e\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e \u201creductio ad absurdum\u201c \u043d\u0430 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u0430 \u0432 \u0410\u0443\u0448\u0432\u0438\u0446 \u2013 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u044f\u043a\u0430\u0448 \u0438\u0437\u043e\u0431\u0449\u043e \u0435 \u0444\u0438\u043b\u043e\u0441\u043e\u0444\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u0430\u043c\u0438\u044f \u0410\u0443\u0435 \u0437\u0430 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u0430 - \u043d\u0435\u043d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442. \u041f\u0440\u0438 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0447\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0441\u0442 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0430\u0445 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u201e\u043c\u043e\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0446\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430\u201c \u043d\u0430 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e \u0438 \u043e\u0442\u043a\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0430\u043c\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0432\u043e\u043b\u044f \u0434\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0430\u043f\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434. \u0417\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u043b\u0435\u0433\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043c\u0443 \u0441 \u043f\u043e-\u0433\u043e\u043b\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u201e\u0436\u0438\u0437\u043d\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u201c (\u043f\u043e\u043d\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0432\u0438\u0434\u043d\u0430) \u043c\u0438 \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u043e\u0431\u044f\u0441\u043d\u0438\u043c\u043e \u043a\u0430\u043a \u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0441 \u0435\u043d\u0442\u0443\u0441\u0438\u0430\u0437\u044a\u043c \u0438 \u0443\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442. \u0421\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043a\u044a\u0441\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430 (\u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u044f \u043d\u043e\u0441\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0435\u043a\u0441\u043a\u0443\u0440\u0437\u0438\u044f) \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438 \u043c\u0435 \u0442\u0440\u0435\u0441\u043d\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u0441 \u0446\u0438\u0444\u0440\u0438 \u2013 \u0441\u044f\u043a\u0430\u0448 \u0441\u0435 \u0431\u0440\u043e\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0438 \u201e\u0441\u0435\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0446\u0438\u043e\u043d\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0448\u0435\u201c \u0441\u0442\u043e\u043a\u0430, \u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u0438 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430. \u0411\u0440\u043e\u0439\u043a\u0438, \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0446\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0438 \u2013 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0430 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u043b\u0430\u0433\u0435\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0435. \u041f\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0437\u0432\u043e\u0434\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u2013 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u0432\u0438\u0441\u0448\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0446\u0435\u043b. \u0421 \u043e\u0433\u0440\u043e\u043c\u043d\u043e \u0443\u0441\u044a\u0440\u0434\u0438\u0435 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0448\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u201e\u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u0430\u0442\u0430\u201c \u0441\u0438 \u043e\u0442\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0440\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0437\u0430 \u043b\u0430\u0433\u0435\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440\u0438. \u041b\u044e\u0431\u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u043d\u043e \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0435\u043a\u0437\u0435\u043a\u0443\u0446\u0438\u0438 \u0441 \u043b\u0430\u0433\u0435\u0440\u0438 (\u0441 \u201e\u0447\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435\u201c \u0433\u0430\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0438 \u043a\u0430\u043c\u0435\u0440\u0438) \u2013 \u043e\u0441\u0432\u0435\u043d \u0438\u043a\u043e\u043d\u043e\u043c\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0446\u0435\u043b, \u0432\u0430\u0436\u043d\u043e \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e \u043f\u0441\u0438\u0445\u0438\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0434\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0448\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u0430\u0441\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0435\u043b\u0438 (\u043e\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0440\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435, \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0449\u0430\u0442 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0430\u0434\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u0438\u0437\u0431\u043b\u0438\u0446\u0438, \u0441\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0443\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u0441\u043c\u0443\u0449\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0438 \u0442.\u043d.), \u0437\u0430\u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0433\u0440\u0438\u0436\u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u0442\u044f\u0445\u2026 (view spoiler) [\u201c\u0422\u0435\u0445\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0440\u0435\u0430\u043a\u0446\u0438\u0438, \u0442\u044f\u0445\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0441\u0442, \u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0437\u044a\u043c, \u043d\u0435\u0440\u0432\u043d\u0438 \u0434\u0435\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0438\u0438, \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e\u0443\u0431\u0438\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u043c\u043e\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u043e\u0431\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u0442\u044a\u0433\u0430 \u2013 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435, \u0447\u0435 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0443\u0432\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433, \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e \u0438 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u043b\u044f, \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0430 \u0438\u0434\u0435\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0438\u044f, \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u043a\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e \u0433\u043b\u0443\u043f\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0438 \u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0445\u043e\u043b \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u043a\u044a\u0441\u043d\u0435 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u0442\u044a\u043d\u043a\u0430, \u043d\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0437\u0440\u0443\u0448\u0438\u043c\u0430 \u043d\u0438\u0448\u043a\u0430. \u0422\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u0444\u0430\u043a\u0442, \u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435.\u201c (hide spoiler) ] \u0421\u0430\u0434\u0438\u0437\u043c\u044a\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u0438\u043d\u0434\u0438\u0432\u0438\u0434\u0443\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u043d\u0438\u0432\u043e \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0431\u0441\u044a\u0436\u0434\u0430, \u043d\u043e \u0446\u044f\u043b\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435 (\u201eEndl\u00f6sung\u201d) \u043d\u0435 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0433\u043b\u0435\u0436\u0434\u0430\u0442 \u043e\u0442 \u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043d\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0447\u043a\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0445\u0443\u043c\u0430\u043d\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0442\u0430 \u0435\u0441\u0435\u0441\u043e\u0432\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 (\u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0432 \u043f\u043e-\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0433\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043a\u043e \u043e\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u043b\u043e \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u043c\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441, \u043d\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0438 \u0441\u0430\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430, \u0430 \u043e\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0432\u043e \u0438\u0437\u0446\u044f\u043b\u043e \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0437\u043a\u0430 \u0441 \u0438\u043d\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0422\u0440\u0435\u0442\u0438\u044f \u0420\u0430\u0439\u0445). \u041e\u0441\u0432\u0435\u043d \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0441\u044a\u0436\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0439 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0444\u0438\u0446\u0435\u0440\u0438 \u043e\u0442 \u043e\u0431\u043a\u0440\u044a\u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043c\u0443 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u0431\u044f\u0445\u0430 \u043b\u044e\u0431\u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u043d\u0438 \u2013 \u0442\u0430\u043a\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u043e\u0449\u0435 \u043f\u043e-\u0446\u044f\u043b\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043d\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0440\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u044f\u0441\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0437\u043c\u0430 \u0438 \u0438\u0437\u043e\u0431\u0449\u043e \u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0413\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u043e \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430. \u0420\u0430\u0437\u0431\u0440\u0430\u0445, \u0447\u0435 \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e \u043d\u0435\u043e\u0431\u0445\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043c\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0437\u043d\u0430\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0438 \u041f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0433\u043b\u043e\u0431\u044f \u0446\u044f\u043b\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0440\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0412\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430. \u0418 \u0430\u043a\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0430\u0445 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f \u201e\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430\u201c \u0438 \u0432\u044f\u0440\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u0438\u0441\u0448\u0438\u044f \u0435\u0448\u0430\u043b\u043e\u043d \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438\u0434\u0435\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0438\u044f, \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0449\u0435 \u043c\u0438 \u0435 \u0442\u0440\u0443\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0443\u043c\u0435\u044f \u043c\u0430\u0449\u0430\u0431\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u043b\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u043f\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u0438. \u0414\u0440\u0443\u0433 \u201e\u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0439\u201c (\u0433\u0440\u0443\u043f\u0435\u043d\u0444\u044e\u0440\u0435\u0440 \u041c\u044e\u043b\u0435\u0440) \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0441\u044a\u0436\u0434\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u043e\u0431\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0438 \u0441 \u043f\u0435\u0440\u0441\u043f\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430. (view spoiler) [\u201e\u0415\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e, \u0410\u0439\u0445\u043c\u0430\u043d, \u0435 \u0447\u0435 \u043d\u0435 \u0442\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435. \u041d\u0430\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0430, \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0430 \u0441\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u0433\u043e\u043b\u0435\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043d\u0438 \u0432\u0440\u0430\u0433\u043e\u0432\u0435. \u041d\u043e \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0439\u0441\u043a\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441 \u0432\u0435\u0447\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0447\u0442\u0438 \u0435 \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0435\u043d \u0432 \u0415\u0432\u0440\u043e\u043f\u0430. \u0421\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u0423\u043d\u0433\u0430\u0440\u0438\u044f \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430\u0442 \u043e\u0441\u043e\u0431\u0435\u043d\u043e \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e. \u0422\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u043c \u0437\u0430 \u0431\u044a\u0434\u0435\u0449\u0435\u0442\u043e. \u0410 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u043c\u0435 \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u0432\u0440\u0430\u0433\u043e\u0432\u0435. \u0422\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u043c \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438\u043c \u0441 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435. \u0411\u0435\u0437\u0441\u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0443\u043d\u0438\u0449\u043e\u0436\u0438\u043c \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u043d\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0438\u043c \u043f\u043e\u043b\u044f\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435. \u0418 \u0442\u0443\u043a \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e, \u0432 \u0413\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f. \u0412\u0435\u0447\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u043e\u0447\u043d\u0430\u0445\u043c\u0435, \u043d\u043e \u0442\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u0433\u043d\u0435\u043c \u0434\u043e \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439. \u041d\u0435\u043e\u0431\u0445\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043c\u043e \u043d\u0438 \u0435 \u0438 Endl\u00f6sung der Sozialfrage, \u043e\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0447\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043e\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441. \u0412\u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0449\u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0442\u0432\u044a\u0440\u0434\u0435 \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0442\u044a\u043f\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438, \u0430\u0441\u043e\u0446\u0438\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0438 \u0442\u0438\u043f\u043e\u0432\u0435, \u0441\u043a\u0438\u0442\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438, \u0446\u0438\u0433\u0430\u043d\u0438, \u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0445\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0446\u0438, \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0443\u0442\u043a\u0438, \u0445\u043e\u043c\u043e\u0441\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0443\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438. \u0422\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u043c \u0437\u0430 \u0442\u0443\u0431\u0435\u0440\u043a\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0437\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0437\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0437\u0434\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430. \u0417\u0430 \u0441\u044a\u0440\u0434\u0435\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0431\u043e\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u043a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0440\u0430\u0437\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u043b\u043e\u0448\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u043a\u0440\u044a\u0432 \u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0443\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0446\u044f\u043b\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0441\u0442\u043e\u044f\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0437\u0434\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043e\u043f\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e: \u0442\u044f\u0445 \u043f\u043e\u043d\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u0442\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430\u043b\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0433\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0437\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043c\u0435. \u0422\u0440\u044f\u0431\u0432\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0437\u0430\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043c \u0441 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430, \u043a\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0440\u0438\u044f \u043f\u043e \u043a\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0440\u0438\u044f. \u0410 \u043d\u0430\u0448\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0434\u043e \u0431\u0440\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0438 \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0446\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0442\u0438\u0432\u043e\u043f\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f, \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u0438\u0437\u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u044f\u0442 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0438 \u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f. \u0417\u0430\u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0421\u0442\u0430\u043b\u0438\u043d \u0435 \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0438\u043b\u0435\u043d: \u0443\u043c\u0435\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0440\u0430 \u0445\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u043c\u0443 \u0441\u0435 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0447\u0438\u043d\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0442 \u0438 \u0443\u043c\u0435\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u0434\u043e \u043a\u0440\u0430\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u0430\u0442\u0430.\u201c (hide spoiler) ] \u0421\u0430\u043c\u0438\u044f\u0442 \u0410\u0443\u0435 \u0434\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u0443\u0431\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430\u044f\u0432\u044f\u0432\u0430 (\u0437\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u043e\u0439 \u043a\u043e\u043b\u0435\u0433\u0430 \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0437\u043a\u0430 \u0441 \u0435\u0432\u0430\u043a\u0443\u0438\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435): \u201e\u0422\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435 \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d, \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0438 \u0431\u044f\u0445\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e, \u0438 \u0430\u0437 \u0431\u044f\u0445 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e, \u0438 \u0432\u0438\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043e, \u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e \u043c\u044f\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0449\u044f\u0445\u0442\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0442\u0435 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e.\u201c \u0414\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u043e\u0431\u044f\u0441\u043d\u044f\u0432\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438 \u0432\u0438\u0436\u0434\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043f\u043e \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435 - \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u044a\u043b\u0442\u0430 \u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0439, \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0443\u043c\u0435\u043d \u043f\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u043e\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0435\u043b (\u043d\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0447\u0438 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u044a\u043b\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0443 \u043b\u043e\u044f\u043b\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0438 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0438\u043a\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0424\u044e\u0440\u0435\u0440\u0430). \u0421\u043c\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0449\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0434\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u0438\u0437\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u044a\u0436\u0430\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043a\u044a\u043c \u201e\u043e\u0441\u044a\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435\u201c \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438 (\u043d\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0438\u043a\u0430\u043a \u043d\u0435 \u0432\u043b\u0438\u044f\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0435\u0439\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0443) \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0431\u0438 \u043f\u043e-\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0440\u043e \u043a\u044a\u043c \u0441\u0435\u0431\u0435 \u0441\u0438?!. \u041c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u043f\u043e-\u043b\u0435\u0441\u043d\u0430 \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0430 \u0434\u043e\u0441\u0435\u0433\u0430\u0448\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u0435\u0441\u0435\u0441\u043e\u0432\u0446\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0430\u0431\u0441\u043e\u043b\u044e\u0442\u043d\u0438 \u0437\u0432\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0432\u0435?! (view spoiler) [ \"\u2026\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f\u0445 \u0441\u0438 \u0441\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0442\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0437\u0430\u0433\u0430\u0434\u044a\u0447\u043d\u043e \u043f\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0434 \u0433\u0430\u0437\u0430, \u043e\u0442 \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438 \u0441\u044a\u0440\u0446\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0431\u0440\u044a\u0449\u0430\u0448\u0435, \u043d\u043e \u043d\u0438\u0449\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438, \u0433\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0430\u0445 \u0431\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043d\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0438 \u0438 \u0441\u0438 \u0433\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f\u0445 \u0432 \u0433\u0430\u0437\u043e\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043a\u0430\u043c\u0435\u0440\u0438, \u0441 \u0440\u044a\u0446\u0435 \u0432\u044a\u0440\u0445\u0443 \u0438\u0437\u0434\u0443\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043a\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0438, \u0441 \u0443\u0436\u0430\u0441 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0430\u0445 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u043e \u043b\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0441 \u043f\u043b\u043e\u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0433\u0430\u0437\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u0436\u0435\u043d\u0430, \u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u0443\u043c\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0432\u0435\u0434\u043d\u0430\u0433\u0430 \u0441 \u043c\u0430\u0439\u043a\u0430 \u0441\u0438, \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u0435\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u043c\u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u043d\u0435\u044f, \u0437\u0430\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d \u0432 \u043c\u044a\u0440\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438\u043c \u043e\u0431\u0432\u0438\u0432\u043a\u0430, \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0432\u0438\u044f \u0437\u0430\u0434\u0443\u0448\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0449 \u0440\u0430\u0439, \u0438 \u0432\u0435\u0434\u043d\u0430\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0445\u043b\u0443\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0423\u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430, \u0438 \u0437\u0430 \u043f\u044a\u0440\u0432\u0438 \u043f\u044a\u0442 \u043e\u0442 \u0434\u044a\u043b\u0433\u043e \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0445 \u0436\u0435\u043b\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u044a\u0440\u043d\u0430, \u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0432\u044a\u0440\u043d\u0430 \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0441\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0435\u0442\u043e, \u0442\u044a\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u043d\u0435\u043d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0441\u0438 \u0436\u0438\u0432\u043e\u0442.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] \u041a\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430\u0431\u043b\u0438\u0436\u0438 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u044f\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u0432 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430\u0441\u0442\u044a\u043f\u0438 \u043e\u0431\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0447\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u2013 \u0442\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0432\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u0438\u0436\u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0435 \u0446\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0440\u0443\u0445\u0430 - \u043c\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0438\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0443\u0445\u043e\u0432\u043d\u043e \u043e\u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0448\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435, \u0438\u0437\u0443\u043c\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0431\u0435\u0437\u0441\u043c\u0438\u0441\u043b\u0438\u0435 \u2013 \u0437\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0438. \u0423\u0436\u0430\u0441\u044f\u0432\u0430\u0449\u043e \u0431\u0438 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e \u0432 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0442 (\u043a\u0440\u0430\u044f \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430) \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0438 \u0437\u0430\u0434\u0430\u0434\u0435 \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0430 \u2013 \u201e\u0417\u0430\u0449\u043e \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430?!\u201c \u041d\u0430 \u0444\u043e\u043d\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0446\u0435\u043b\u0438\u044f \u0443\u0436\u0430\u0441 \u0441\u044a\u043b\u0437\u0438 \u0440\u044f\u0434\u043a\u043e \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0448\u0435, \u0440\u0435\u0430\u0433\u0438\u0440\u0430\u0445 \u043f\u043e-\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0440\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u043e\u0441\u043a\u044a\u0434\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u044f\u0432\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u043e \u2013 \u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0438 \u043e\u0442\u0441\u0442\u044a\u043f\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0438 \u043d\u0430\u0446\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0436\u0434\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u0435\u0432\u0440\u0435\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u043b\u0430\u0433\u0435\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0435 (\u043d\u0435 \u043e\u0442 \u0445\u0443\u043c\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0437\u044a\u043c, \u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u043f\u0430\u0437\u044f\u0442 \u0440\u0430\u0431\u043e\u0442\u043d\u0430 \u0440\u044a\u043a\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0432\u043e\u0434\u0438\u0442\u0435), \u043f\u043e \u0441\u0435\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0432\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u043c \u043f\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0434\u0430\u0442 \u0445\u043b\u044f\u0431 (\u0440\u0430\u0437\u0431\u0438\u0440\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0431\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0445\u0430 \u0433\u0440\u0443\u0431\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0438\u0447\u0430\u043d\u0438). \u041a\u043e\u0438\u0442\u043e \u0441\u0430 \u0447\u0435\u043b\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0438 \u0441\u0438 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u043c\u043d\u044f\u0442 \u0441\u0442\u0440. 777 (\u0434\u043e \u043a\u044a\u043c 780), \u0441\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e \u0449\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u0433\u043b\u0430\u0441\u044f\u0442, \u0447\u0435 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0435 \u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d \u043e\u0442 \u043d\u0430\u0439-\u043f\u043e\u0442\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0449\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0438 (\u0431\u0430\u043d\u0434\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0447\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0410\u0434\u0430\u043c). \u0410\u043a\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0432 \u0446\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430, \u0442\u043e \u0442\u0443\u043a \u0441\u044a\u0441 \u0441\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u0441\u0435 \u0447\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0445 \u043a\u0430\u043a \u0441 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u201e\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0443\u0440\u0441\u201c \u0415\u0432\u0440\u043e\u043f\u0430 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043f\u0430\u043a \u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0430 \u0433\u043e\u0440\u0435-\u0434\u043e\u043b\u0443 \u043d\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0430\u043b\u043d\u0430\u2026 \u0417\u0430 \u0432\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u043f\u044a\u0442 \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0443\u0447\u0432\u0430 (\u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u201e\u041c\u0430\u0439\u043a\u0438\u0442\u0435\u201c) \u0434\u0430 \u043e\u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0434\u0430\u044f \u0438\u0437\u043f\u043e\u043b\u0437\u0432\u0430\u043d\u0435\u0442\u043e \u043d\u0430 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u0430 \u0430\u0433\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0438\u044f (\u0434\u0435\u0446\u0430?!) \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0443\u043f\u0440\u0435\u0436\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435. \u041f\u0440\u0438 \u0441\u0446\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 777 \u0441\u0438 \u043f\u043e\u0437\u0432\u043e\u043b\u0438\u0445 \u0430\u0431\u0441\u0443\u0440\u0434\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0432\u044a\u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441 \u201e\u041d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u0430 \u043b\u0438 \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u0430 \u0412\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0441\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0430\u201c \u0438 \u0430\u0431\u0441\u0443\u0440\u0434\u043d\u0438\u044f \u043e\u0442\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0440 \u2013 \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u0435 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e \u043d\u0443\u0436\u043d\u043e \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0438\u0433\u043d\u0435 \u0434\u043e \u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u0438 \u043a\u0440\u0430\u0439\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438, \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0431\u044a\u0434\u0435 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0415\u0432\u0440\u043e\u043f\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0430 \u2013 \u0434\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u0438 \u0441 \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u043a\u043e\u043b\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435, \u043a\u043e\u0435\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u043e\u043f\u0438\u0441\u0430\u043d\u043e (\u0410\u0434\u0430\u043c & co). \u0414\u043e\u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0446\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0443\u0432\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0440\u0435\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0430, \u0442\u0435\u0437\u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0446\u0438 \u0441\u0438 \u0431\u044f\u0445\u0430 \u043d\u0430\u043f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043e \u0441\u044e\u0440\u0440\u0435\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 (\u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u043e \u0443\u0441\u0435\u0449\u0430\u043d\u0435 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u0448\u0435 \u0438 \u0432 \u201e\u0421\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043d\u043e\u0449\u043d\u0438 \u0434\u0435\u0446\u0430\u201c \u0438 \u201e\u041f\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0435\u043a \u0438 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0438 \u0432\u0440\u0435\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u2013 \u043f\u0430\u043a \u0432\u044a\u0432 \u0432\u0440\u044a\u0437\u043a\u0430 \u0441 \u0432\u043e\u0439\u043d\u0438). \u041d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u043a \u0434\u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0436\u0430 \u043e\u0431\u0438\u0447\u0430\u0439\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u201e\u0445\u0430\u0440\u0435\u0441\u0430 \u043c\u0438 \u043c\u043d\u043e\u0433\u043e\u201c \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430. \u041f\u043e\u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u0433\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438 \u0434\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u201e\u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e\u201c \u043e\u0442 600 \u0441\u0442\u0440. \u0441\u044a\u043c \u043a\u0430\u0437\u0432\u0430\u043b\u0430, \u0447\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e \u0434\u043e\u0431\u0440\u0435 \u0434\u0430 \u0441\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u043c\u0435\u0440\u043d\u043e 300-400. \u0417\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u0437\u0438 \u0440\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043d \u043e\u0442 \u043e\u043a\u043e\u043b\u043e (\u0440\u0435\u0430\u043b\u043d\u043e \u2013 \u0437\u0430\u0440\u0430\u0434\u0438 \u0434\u0440\u0435\u0431\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0448\u0440\u0438\u0444\u0442) 1000 \u0441\u0442\u0440. \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430\u0445 \u0447\u0443\u0432\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e, \u0447\u0435 \u043d\u0435\u0449\u043e \u0435 \u0438\u0437\u043b\u0438\u0448\u043d\u043e, \u043c\u0430\u043a\u0430\u0440 \u0447\u0435 \u043d\u044f\u043a\u043e\u0438 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0442\u0438 \u043d\u0430\u0438\u0441\u0442\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u043c\u0438\u043d\u0430\u0432\u0430\u0445 \u043f\u043e-\u0431\u044a\u0440\u0437\u043e. \u0418\u0437\u043e\u0431\u0438\u043b\u043d\u043e\u0442\u043e \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0441\u044a\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u0432\u0441\u044f\u043a\u0430\u043a\u0432\u0438 \u0444\u0438\u0437\u0438\u043e\u043b\u043e\u0433\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0438 \u043d\u0443\u0436\u0434\u0438 \u0441\u043f\u043e\u0440\u0435\u0434 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u043d\u0435 \u0435 \u0441\u0430\u043c\u043e\u0446\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e \u0438\u043b\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u0434\u0430 \u0438\u0437\u0433\u043b\u0435\u0436\u0434\u0430 \u043f\u043e-\u0433\u0430\u0434\u043d\u043e \u0432\u0441\u0438\u0447\u043a\u043e, \u043c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u043d\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u0442\u0430\u0444\u043e\u0440\u0430. \u041f\u043e-\u0433\u043d\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0447\u0435\u043b\u0430, \u0432\u0441\u044a\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442 \u043d\u0435 \u0447\u0435\u0442\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0433\u043d\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0438, \u043d\u043e \u0442\u0443\u043a \u0442\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0438\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433 \u0441\u043c\u0438\u0441\u044a\u043b. \u0421\u0438\u0433\u0443\u0440\u043d\u043e \u043d\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0430 \u043f\u043e\u0434\u043e\u0431\u043d\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430, \u043a\u043e\u044f\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0438\u0445 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0447\u0435\u043b\u0430 \u2013 \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433 \u0432\u043a\u0443\u0441 \u0438\u043c\u0430\u043c, \u0434\u0440\u0443\u0433\u0430 \u0447\u0443\u0432\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442. \u041d\u043e \u043c\u0438 \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u043d\u0435\u043e\u0431\u0445\u043e\u0434\u0438\u043c\u0430. \u041f\u043e\u0447\u0442\u0438 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u043c \u0438\u043c\u0430\u043b\u0430 \u043a\u043e\u043b\u0435\u0431\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f \u0434\u0430\u043b\u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u044f \u043e\u0441\u0442\u0430\u0432\u044f. \u0412\u0441\u0435 \u043f\u0430\u043a \u043d\u0435 \u044f \u0447\u0435\u0442\u043e\u0445 \u0441 \u043d\u0430\u043f\u044a\u043b\u043d\u043e \u043e\u0442\u0432\u043e\u0440\u0435\u043d\u043e \u0441\u044a\u0437\u043d\u0430\u043d\u0438\u0435, \u0440\u0435\u0448\u0438\u0445 \u0434\u0430 \u201e\u043f\u0443\u0441\u043d\u0430 \u0437\u0430\u0432\u0435\u0441\u0430\u0442\u0430\u201c \u043c\u0430\u043b\u043a\u043e \u0438 \u0434\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u0432\u0436\u0438\u0432\u044f\u0432\u0430\u043c \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0432 \u0436\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438\u0442\u0435, \u0438\u0437\u0432\u0440\u0430\u0449\u0435\u043d\u0438\u044f\u0442\u0430. \u0410\u0432\u0442\u043e\u0440\u044a\u0442 \u043c\u0438 \u0441\u0435 \u0441\u0442\u043e\u0440\u0438 \u0438\u0437\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0434\u0432\u0430\u0449\u043e \u043c\u043b\u0430\u0434 \u0437\u0430 \u0442\u043e\u043b\u043a\u043e\u0432\u0430 \u0433\u0440\u0430\u043d\u0434\u0438\u043e\u0437\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0437\u0432\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435. \u0421\u044f\u043a\u0430\u0448 \u041b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u043b \u0435 \u043f\u0440\u0438\u0441\u044a\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0430\u043b, \u0431\u0438\u043b \u0435 \u043f\u0440\u044f\u043a \u0441\u0432\u0438\u0434\u0435\u0442\u0435\u043b. \u041c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0435 \u201e\u0433\u043e\u043b\u044f\u043c\u0430 \u0433\u043b\u0430\u0432\u0430\u201c? :) (\u0441\u044a\u043e\u0442\u0432\u0435\u0442\u043d\u043e \u0442\u0440\u0443\u0434\u044a\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u043f\u0440\u0435\u0432\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0447\u0430 \u0435 \u043a\u044a\u0440\u0442\u043e\u0432\u0441\u043a\u0438). \u0412\u044a\u0437\u043f\u0440\u0438\u0435\u043c\u0430\u043c \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0435 \u043a\u0430\u043a\u0442\u043e \u201e\u043e\u0431\u0438\u043a\u043d\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0442\u0430\u201c \u0445\u0443\u0434\u043e\u0436\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043d\u0430 \u043b\u0438\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0430\u0442\u0443\u0440\u0430, \u0430 \u043a\u0430\u0442\u043e \u0438\u043d\u0444\u043e\u0440\u043c\u0430\u0442\u0438\u0432\u043d\u043e-\u0430\u043d\u0430\u043b\u0438\u0442\u0438\u0447\u043d\u0430 \u0442\u0432\u043e\u0440\u0431\u0430. \u0417\u0430 \u043c\u0435\u043d \u0432\u0430\u0436\u043d\u0430 \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0438\u0447\u043a\u0430 \u043e\u0442 \u0442\u0430\u0437\u0438 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430 \u0431\u0435\u0448\u0435 \u201e\u0431\u0435\u0437\u0441\u0438\u043b\u0438\u0435\u201c. \u041d\u043e \u0438\u0437\u043d\u0435\u043d\u0430\u0434\u0432\u0430\u0449\u043e \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0442\u0447\u0430\u044f\u0445 \u043e\u0442 \u0441\u044a\u0449\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0442\u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0447\u043e\u0432\u0435\u0448\u043a\u0438\u044f \u0440\u043e\u0434 \u0438 \u043f\u0435\u0440\u0441\u043f\u0435\u043a\u0442\u0438\u0432\u0430\u0442\u0430 \u0437\u0430 \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0432\u043e\u0442\u043e \u0431\u044a\u0434\u0435\u0449\u0435. \u041c\u043e\u0436\u0435 \u0431\u0438 \u0431\u043b\u0430\u0433\u043e\u0434\u0430\u0440\u0435\u043d\u0438\u0435 \u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0430 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0430\u0442\u0430, \u0430 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043b\u0435\u0434\u0432\u0430\u0449\u0438\u0442\u0435 \u0434\u0435\u0441\u0435\u0442\u0438\u043b\u0435\u0442\u0438\u044f \u0432 \u0415\u0432\u0440\u043e\u043f\u0430, \u043c\u0430\u043a\u0430\u0440 \u0438 \u043d\u0435 \u0441\u044a\u0432\u0441\u0435\u043c \u0431\u0435\u0437\u043e\u0431\u043b\u0430\u0447\u043d\u0438\u2026 ...more \u0394\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b7\u03b8\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03c9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03ae\u03c7\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc, \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ac\u03be\u03b9\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03af. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf\u03c0\u03c9\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03b5\u03af\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03af\u03b1. \u039c\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf\u03b8\u03ae\u03ba\u03b7\u03c2: \u03bc\u03cc\u03bb\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c7\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03be\u03b5\u03c6\u03cd\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2. \u0394\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03b1, \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03c9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03b4\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf \u0391\u03b9\u03c3\u03c7\u03cd\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ad\u03c2 \u0395\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cd\u03b5\u03c2, \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ac\u03c4\u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b5\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2, \u03c3\u03b5 \u0394\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b7\u03b8\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03c9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03b1, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03ae\u03c7\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc, \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ac\u03be\u03b9\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03af. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf\u03c0\u03c9\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03bc\u03bf\u03cd \u03b5\u03af\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03af\u03b1. \u039c\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf\u03b8\u03ae\u03ba\u03b7\u03c2: \u03bc\u03cc\u03bb\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03ae\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c7\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03be\u03b5\u03c6\u03cd\u03bb\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2. \u0394\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03ae\u03b8\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03b1, \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03c9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03b4\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf \u0391\u03b9\u03c3\u03c7\u03cd\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03c4\u03c1\u03ad\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ad\u03c2 \u0395\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cd\u03b5\u03c2, \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ac\u03c4\u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b5\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2, \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c0\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03ba\u03bb\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03c9\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03c7\u03ce\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b7. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ce\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03bf \u0386\u03bf\u03c5\u03b5: \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03af-\u03ae\u03c1\u03c9\u03b1, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03b7\u03c1\u03ad\u03c4\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 SS, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c9\u03bc\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c1\u03b5\u03b1\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5, \u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03cc \u03b1\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b2\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5, \u03bf\u03b4\u03b7\u03b3\u03ce\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03ba\u03cd\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2, \u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03bf\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c6\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5, \u03b4\u03b5 \u03b2\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03bc\u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03ac \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2, \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039d\u03b1\u03b6\u03af \u03b1\u03be\u03b9\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03b5\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03bb\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c7\u03c1\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c0\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03b5\u03c1\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd \u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b5\u03ba\u03bc\u03b7\u03c1\u03b9\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c6\u03c5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b1\u03c0\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd \u03bb\u03b1\u03ce\u03bd, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7 Weltanschauung \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 F\u00fchrer \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 Volk \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9\u03b5\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c7\u03ae \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2. \u0391\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ae \u03ae\u03b4\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b9\u03bb\u03ac \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03af\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c7\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bf \u03ac\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03bc\u03bf: \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b6\u03b5\u03b9. \u03a9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf, \u03c7\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b7, \u03b5\u03be\u03af\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b8\u03b5\u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ce\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03af\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1: \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b7 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9. \u0391\u03bd\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03cd\u03bf \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ac \u03cc\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03bf\u03b2\u03b1\u03c4\u03b5\u03af \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9, \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03ac\u03c3\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03ad\u03c1\u03bc\u03b1\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b4\u03af\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5, \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c4\u03bf\u03c7\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03bf \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2: \u03cc\u03c7\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03bf\u03c1\u03b8\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03be\u03b5\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 F\u00fchrer-\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b1\u03bc\u03c6\u03b9\u03c3\u03b2\u03b7\u03c4\u03b5\u03af\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5, \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03c0\u03bf \u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b5\u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b4\u03ac\u03ba\u03c4\u03c9\u03c1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03b8\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5\u03af \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c8\u03cd\u03c7\u03c1\u03b1\u03b9\u03bc\u03b7, \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ce\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b1\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03bd\u03cc\u03b7\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03b7\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03b5\u03c1\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03cd \u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac \u03b2\u03ac\u03b8\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03af, \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ac\u03c3\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03c5\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5 \u03bb\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9, \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03b7\u03c3\u03af\u03c3\u03bf\u03c6\u03bf\u03c2. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03bf\u03bd \u03bf\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ae \u03b7 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf\u03c6\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5: \u03bf \u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03bc\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9, \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c8\u03c5\u03c7\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03c8\u03b5\u03b9, \u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bf\u03c1\u03ac\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c6\u03b9\u03ac\u03bb\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd\u03af\u03b6\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd. \u039f \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c7\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bb\u03ad\u03bf\u03bd \u03b7 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03b2\u03af\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7: \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2; \u0394\u03b5 \u03c3\u03bf\u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03cc\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1, \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03cc \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u03a9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b7\u03bc\u03ac \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03bc\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf: \u0388\u03c3\u03c4\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b2\u03c1\u03ad\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c7\u03bf\u03cd\u03c6\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03c9\u03bd, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03b5\u03be\u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ae\u03c2 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc, \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03b8\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd Hitler. \u0388\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bf\u03bb\u03cc\u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b1\u03cc\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03bf Volk, \u03c0\u03ce\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03cd\u03c1\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5; \u03a0\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b5\u03cd\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03b5\u03ba\u03ba\u03bb\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03b9\u03bd\u03b7 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae; \u03a0\u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03b1\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03ba\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b5\u03c9\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b5\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c9\u03c2 \u03ad\u03c7\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03ce\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2; http://mysundayafternoons.blogspot.gr... ...more Assigning a star rating to this book is impossible. I can see why it was necessary for it to be written - to remind us of what we are capable - but that doesn't make this book readable. Personally, I couldn't get beyond page 120 or thereabouts. My difficulty lay in reconciling the chilling, dispassionate voice of the narrator with the brutal and horrifying scenes he was witnessing. I became paralysed by the awful, stomach churning fear of what he would recount next. I have never experienced such Assigning a star rating to this book is impossible. I can see why it was necessary for it to be written - to remind us of what we are capable - but that doesn't make this book readable. Personally, I couldn't get beyond page 120 or thereabouts. My difficulty lay in reconciling the chilling, dispassionate voice of the narrator with the brutal and horrifying scenes he was witnessing. I became paralysed by the awful, stomach churning fear of what he would recount next. I have never experienced such a feeling from a book. I had no choice but to abandon it. ...more O melhor livro da d\u00e9cada. O primeiro livro de um americano que escreve em franc\u00eas. No ano em que saiu, ganhou tudo e vendeu 750 000 exemplares em Fran\u00e7a. \u00c9 absolutamente avassalador. Acompanhamos a ascens\u00e3o de um oficial SS, executante do holocausto, do in\u00edcio da carreira at\u00e9 ao fim que j\u00e1 conhecemos. Personagem odiosa mas brutalmente magn\u00e9tica por magia do talento de Littell. Uma odisseia \u00e9pica com um enorme grau de detalhe hist\u00f3rico. O Who's Who da hierarquia nazi da II Guerra desfila ao longo O melhor livro da d\u00e9cada. O primeiro livro de um americano que escreve em franc\u00eas. No ano em que saiu, ganhou tudo e vendeu 750 000 exemplares em Fran\u00e7a. \u00c9 absolutamente avassalador. Acompanhamos a ascens\u00e3o de um oficial SS, executante do holocausto, do in\u00edcio da carreira at\u00e9 ao fim que j\u00e1 conhecemos. Personagem odiosa mas brutalmente magn\u00e9tica por magia do talento de Littell. Uma odisseia \u00e9pica com um enorme grau de detalhe hist\u00f3rico. O Who's Who da hierarquia nazi da II Guerra desfila ao longo das quase 1000 p\u00e1ginas, sem nunca cair na banalidade, no cansa\u00e7o ou perder fulgor. Uma escrita de primeira \u00e1gua, um cl\u00e1ssico instant\u00e2neo. ...more When the The Kindly Ones came out a few years ago in France it sold millions and won some of Europe's most prestigious literary awards . I was surprised therefore, to read so many negative reviews when it was recently released here in the U.S. It seems people either loved it or hated it. Well add me to the list of those who loved it ! Yes, its dark, depressing, and in places, deranged to the point of perversion. But that's what makes it so fascinating. And I have no doubt, that in the future, t When the The Kindly Ones came out a few years ago in France it sold millions and won some of Europe's most prestigious literary awards . I was surprised therefore, to read so many negative reviews when it was recently released here in the U.S. It seems people either loved it or hated it. Well add me to the list of those who loved it ! Yes, its dark, depressing, and in places, deranged to the point of perversion. But that's what makes it so fascinating. And I have no doubt, that in the future, this novel will be known as one of the seminal masterpieces of modern literature. ...more Pages and pages of gore, entrails, decapitations, burnings, burials, shootings, burnings.... as if we didn't know that certain \"people\" had done these things. I do not and will never understand why this was a Prix Goncourt. It should have been Prix du Mauvais Gout. This may not be evident, but I tend to avoid historical fiction set during World War II. I'm not sure why: it's an obvious (perhaps too obvious) source of material for exploring the human condition. I'm not squeamish about the details of the Holocaust. Maybe it's just that a lot of World War II fiction focuses on the battles, the military strategy and tactics, and it's military fiction that I'm avoiding. In the last month, however, I read Time's Arrow and The Kindly Ones , both of which are mem This may not be evident, but I tend to avoid historical fiction set during World War II. I'm not sure why: it's an obvious (perhaps too obvious) source of material for exploring the human condition. I'm not squeamish about the details of the Holocaust. Maybe it's just that a lot of World War II fiction focuses on the battles, the military strategy and tactics, and it's military fiction that I'm avoiding. In the last month, however, I read Time's Arrow and The Kindly Ones , both of which are memoirs to an extent; now I'm reading A Thread of Grace . Compared to Martin Amis, Jonathan Littell gets at least one thing right: he tells the story in roughly chronological order. And you know what, Amis? It works better that way. Unfortunately, The Kindly Ones eludes the masterpiece status being accorded to it by some reviewers. Maybe it deserves more credit than I'm willing to give it, but some of the critical acclaim it has received is just . . . silly. The back cover of my edition has a blurb from Kirkus Reviews : \"Littell's apocalyptic ending is like nothing else in the literature. . . . The closing is a tour de force. But so is the entire book . . . with not a wasted word.\" That is serious hyperbole for any book, and it's outright preposterous for this ponderous 983-page novel. A book this thick does not get the benefit of a doubt. And the page count is only the beginning, for The Kindly Ones shelters monstrous multi-page paragraphs\u2014in fact, I think no paragraph is under one page in length, and I counted one as long as seven pages. If the scope of this novel is broad enough to stretch from occupied France to the Russian front, the level of detail dives down toward the infinitesimal. This book is a prime example of why I have a \"literary pretentious\" shelf at all. Of course, pretentiousness and ponderousness are not ipso facto bad . Still, there is a reason that all fiction must elide certain parts of the narrative; it's simply impractical to include every detail about every event from the beginning to the end of the story. An author chisels a good narrative from a block of wild, untamed story, wrapping it in perspectives and limitations until we can comprehend the tale. The skill requires knowing which parts to remove as well as which parts to keep (and a good editor helps too). As with any rule of writing, it's permissible to bend or break this one. But I'm sceptical The Kindly Ones earns such permission. It's obvious that Littell has done his research , and this results in an immersive depiction of Nazi Europe I have not often encountered. Nevertheless, for every harrowing description of the treatment of prisoners or the twisted veneer of civilization in Berlin, there is a passage submerged in a quagmire of impenetrable military jargon from which the glossary at the end provides no relief. Reading this book is a little bit like going to war against it. Though the book itself may sometimes forget this fact, The Kindly Ones is a memoir. Maximilien Aue is an officer in the SS, but he is not a soldier, not in the classical, warrior sense. He is a bureaucrat, a legal scholar\u2014an intellectual, which is always an interesting and controversial word. There is plenty of violence, death, and bloodshed, but this is not a book about the battles or the strategy. Aue himself, when quizzed on these subjects, reminds people that strategy isn't his department: he's a paper-pusher who, for some reason, often ends up too close to the firing line, whether literal or metaphorical. Most importantly, Aue offers us\u2014or seems to offer us\u2014the perspective of a Nazi soldier who does not unreservedly hate all Jews and want to wipe them from the face of the Earth. Yes, he works toward this goal, but only because it's a logistical necessity toward winning the war\u2014or so he claims. Whether or not Aue's apathy toward anti-Semitism is genuine, Littell does manage to create a complex picture of German attitudes toward the Holocaust. He emphasizes that the Nazi treatment of Jews extended to other demographics as well. Most importantly, amid the rabid and stereotypical Jew-hating Nazis he includes soldiers and citizens who, far from hating Jews, regret and lament the F\u00fchrer's Final Solution. In a way, these people's existence is even more terrifying than the existence of villains like Hitler and Himmler\u2014they are a reminder that supposedly rational and reasonable individuals recognized how wrong the Holocaust was and still did nothing about it. Sure, we can demonize every SS man and claim that they were all pure evil. Yet that, in my opinion, diminishes the sincerity with which we remember the Holocaust. It is a manufacturing of an Other where there is none, an attempt to distance ourselves from those who committed these atrocities. Rightly horrified by the Holocaust, we declare, \"Only Others could have done this, only monsters,\" because it reassures us that we do not possess any such darkness within ourselves. This conceit Aue seeks to refute. Almost immediately he explains that, regardless of his flaws (and there are oh so many) he is still a human being: But I don't think I'm a devil. There were always reasons for what I did. Good reasons or bad reasons, I don't know, in any case human reasons. Those who kill are humans, just like those who are killed, that's what's terrible. The tragedy is not that extremist bigots exist but that ordinary people will, given the proper motivation, follow those bigots and participate in disasters like the Holocaust. War is terrible precisely because it is not a natural disaster, an act of God that we can neither prevent nor mitigate. War is a human action, an evil perpetrated on humans by humans. And few humans can ever say that they will never kill, regardless of the circumstance: You can never say: I shall never kill, that's impossible; the most you can say is: I hope I shall never kill. I too hoped so, I too wanted to live a good and useful life, to be a man among men, equal to others, I too wanted to add my brick to our common house. But my hopes were dashed, and my sincerity was betrayed and placed at the services of an ultimately evil and corrupt work, and I crossed over to the dark shores , and all this evil entered my own life, and none of this can be made whole, ever. This passage affected me the most. It's a reminder of the uncomfortable truth of my own humanity. I'm not saying I'd sign up for the SS and start marching and saluting the F\u00fchrer. But maybe I wouldn't be brave enough to stand against it. And certainly, given the right circumstances, I could be driven to kill. So Littell reaches into the core of my being . . . on page 24, barely 2 per cent of the way through this epic. Yes, everything after this point is downhill (although not evenly so; there are various crests and troughs along the way). There are several reasons for this decline, but one in particular relates to Littell's theme of ordinary people participating in extraordinary atrocities. Aue insists that he is \"a man like other men, I am a man like you. I tell you I am just like you!\" Except he isn't . At the extreme end, Littell has decided to rehash the Oresteia with Nazis. Aue is a psychopath. He murders his mother and stepfather, and later, several more people in cold blood. I'm willing to attribute these over-the-top actions to the bullet he takes through the brain while in Stalingrad. Still, he was having fantasies about his sister long before he joined the SS; they just intensify as the war goes on and Aue becomes increasingly unhinged and unpredictable. I don't begrudge Littell his Greek allusions or Aue's psychological baggage\u2014but they do bely any claim that Aue is somehow \"like us.\" Honestly, though, I didn't get the point of Aue's baggage. If we want to get Freudian, we're supposed to believe it all stems from animosity toward a harsh, and later absentee, father. He resents his mother for not breastfeeding him (he was allergic to her milk). And his frustrated, unrequited desire for his sister has fouled any notion of heterosexual intimacy; rather, he seeks sodomy with other men in an attempt to feel closer to his sister through the act of penetration. But what's the point of the hallucinatory, unreliable flashbacks and memories that Aue recounts to us? Is this Littell's way of justifying Aue's solitary nature (why does this need to be justified)? Or does Littell include this out of the sheer disturbing fascination it provokes? This part of the story culminates in Aue's complete surrender to his fantasies while occupying his sister's empty house in Pomerania. Aue has spent the last week wandering his sister's house while naked, masturbating in the woods, and experiencing . . . scatological perturbations. Thomas, arguably his only friend, comes to retrieve him. The Russians have advanced almost past this point, and their return to Berlin becomes a flight from the encroaching enemy. But by this point in the novel, I'm skimming, and I've lost any sense of sympathy or empathy for Aue. If Maximilien Aue were the only thing The Kindly Ones had to offer, it would be a sorry excuse for a novel. Fortunately, Littell's prose supplies solutions as well as problems. Aue shows us aspects of the war that, if not undocumented in fiction, certainly escape the history books. In school, I learned about World War II as a series of episodic battles, culminating in V-E and V-J days. Perhaps necessarily simplistic, this presentation ignores the quotidian operations behind the front. The two most captivating parts of this slow-paced story were Stalingrad and the latter half of Berlin. In both cases, Aue was involved in administrative work. Normally that would be dull, but in this case it provides a perspective on the war effort to which I am unaccustomed. Also, there are some serious ruminations on ideology and methodology in this book. Aue has a nice conversation with a Communist prisoner, who compares National Socialism to Communism: both are deterministic and assert the existence of an objective enemy. These philosophical digressions are a welcome interlude from the jargon-laden descriptions of military activity. Now if only the dialogue was separated by paragraphs . . . ugh. And while Aue did not impress me, and Thomas was very transparently opportunistic, there were two characters who found a place in my heart. Both met untimely ends. Voss, a linguist who befriends Aue, is the least evil Nazi I've ever seen. He's a specialist in Indo-Germanic languages, but he's using the war as an excuse to plunder rare texts from the libraries of occupied countries. (OK, this might be an evil act, but when you're up against \"killing all the Jews,\" even the destruction of cultural heritage pales in comparison.) Piontek, Aue's driver, is loyal and competent. He reminds me a little of another character, Ivan, who protects Aue while he's in Stalingrad. Piontek is a grunt, and thus doesn't have much personality of his own, but along with Thomas and Helene he is one of the few people with whom Aue has any sort of healthy comradeship. The emphasis there is on \"healthy.\" Aue's experiences during wartime are, for the most part, distinctly unhealthy. And he's right to blame the war\u2014after all, what is it good for? Yet the war can't be entirely to blame, and Aue never does seem contrite, just crazy. The Kindly Ones consists of many serious, worthwhile ideas suspended in a robust but tasteless broth of prose. Is it too long? Well, it does itself no favours by being this length, and a shorter book would probably earn more leniency (I'm not saying the system is fair). To condemn it on length alone is a shallow assessment, though. The Kindly Ones isn't just overly long; it's messy , so merely cutting out material isn't going to remedy much. There are fascinating and moving parts to this book, enough so that it's not a total loss. But I can't be much more enthusiastic than that, nor can I really recommend it to others. And that's where the length becomes the true issue: pages are investments, and for all of Littell's obvious research and effort, The Kindly Ones is an investment that provides little return. ...more M\u00e9 rozhodnut\u00ed p\u0159e\u010d\u00edst si mne dosud nezn\u00e1mou knihu Jonathana Littella se dostavilo ihned pot\u00e9, co jsem se o n\u00ed dozv\u011bd\u011bl z jedn\u00e9 recenze. Ono odhodl\u00e1n\u00ed padlo na z\u00e1klad\u011b recenzentovy v\u00fdtky, \u017ee autor jaksi zapomn\u011bl na \u201emor\u00e1ln\u00ed r\u00e1mec\u201c. Jen\u017ee p\u0159esn\u011b tohle bych od knihy \u010dekal. A\u0165 samozvan\u00ed moralist\u00e9 t\u00e1hnout t\u0159eba i na Sibi\u0159. A\u0165 si lid\u00e9 tou\u017e\u00edc\u00ed po serv\u00edrovan\u00e9m a jasn\u011b okomentovan\u00e9m dobru a zlu zalezou do d\u0159evn\u00edku a \u010dtou si zjednodu\u0161en\u00e9 poh\u00e1dky pro ment\u00e1ln\u011b zaostalej\u0161\u00ed. Dobro a zlo nejsou jedni\u010dka a nula. M\u00e9 rozhodnut\u00ed p\u0159e\u010d\u00edst si mne dosud nezn\u00e1mou knihu Jonathana Littella se dostavilo ihned pot\u00e9, co jsem se o n\u00ed dozv\u011bd\u011bl z jedn\u00e9 recenze. Ono odhodl\u00e1n\u00ed padlo na z\u00e1klad\u011b recenzentovy v\u00fdtky, \u017ee autor jaksi zapomn\u011bl na \u201emor\u00e1ln\u00ed r\u00e1mec\u201c. Jen\u017ee p\u0159esn\u011b tohle bych od knihy \u010dekal. A\u0165 samozvan\u00ed moralist\u00e9 t\u00e1hnout t\u0159eba i na Sibi\u0159. A\u0165 si lid\u00e9 tou\u017e\u00edc\u00ed po serv\u00edrovan\u00e9m a jasn\u011b okomentovan\u00e9m dobru a zlu zalezou do d\u0159evn\u00edku a \u010dtou si zjednodu\u0161en\u00e9 poh\u00e1dky pro ment\u00e1ln\u011b zaostalej\u0161\u00ed. Dobro a zlo nejsou jedni\u010dka a nula. A ono rozhodnut\u00ed, zda pr\u00e1v\u011b \u010dten\u00e1 pas\u00e1\u017e m\u00e1 n\u011bjak\u00fd obraz v men\u0161\u00ed \u010di v\u011bt\u0161\u00ed \u010d\u00e1sti dobra a stejn\u011b tak ve v\u011bt\u0161\u00ed \u010di men\u0161\u00ed \u010d\u00e1sti zla, nech\u0165 je na rozhodnut\u00ed \u010dten\u00e1\u0159ov\u011b. Je to stejn\u00fd p\u0159\u00edpad, jak kdy\u017e kritici p\u0159ed lety volali po tom, aby Main Kampf vy\u0161el pouze s p\u0159\u00edslu\u0161n\u00fdmi koment\u00e1\u0159i. Prob\u016fh, jen a\u0165 si obecenstvo neud\u011bl\u00e1 vlastn\u00ed n\u00e1zor. Nedej bo\u017ee rozd\u00edln\u00fd od toho \u201espr\u00e1vn\u00e9ho\u201c. Ano, tihle mravok\u00e1rci, tihle inkvizito\u0159i, tihle dikt\u00e1to\u0159i, ti maj\u00ed b\u00fdt setnuti hned v po\u010d\u00e1tku jejich sna\u017een\u00ed. Ale zp\u011bt k na\u0161im bohyn\u00edm. Laskav\u00e9 bohyn\u011b, jak autor knihu nazval, je fiktivn\u00edm p\u0159\u00edb\u011bhem zaryt\u00e9ho nacisty a d\u016fstojn\u00edka SS v jedn\u00e9 osob\u011b. Sp\u00ed\u0161e by se dalo napsat den\u00edkem, nebo\u0165 pro vypr\u00e1v\u011bn\u00ed byla zvolena prvn\u00ed osoba jednotn\u00e9ho \u010d\u00edsla (co\u017e je dal\u0161\u00ed vyt\u00fdkan\u00e1 vlastnost). Ten m\u016f\u017eeme zjednodu\u0161en\u011b rozd\u011blit do n\u011bkolika \u010d\u00e1st\u00ed \u2013 genocida na Ukrajin\u011b, bitva o Stalingrad a p\u00e1r posledn\u00edch m\u011bs\u00edc\u016f v\u00e1lky v Berl\u00edn\u011b (sv\u00fdm zp\u016fsobem to p\u0159ipom\u00edn\u00e1 Forresta Gumpa). To zn\u00ed zna\u010dn\u011b unyle, ale zp\u016fsob, jak\u00fdm to Littell p\u0159edkl\u00e1d\u00e1, probouz\u00ed, ba p\u0159\u00edmo burcuje nutk\u00e1n\u00ed \u010d\u00edst dal\u0161\u00ed a dal\u0161\u00ed odstavce, a to i v p\u0159\u00edpad\u011b, kdy jeden odstavec zabere klidn\u011b t\u0159i str\u00e1nky. Jeho stroh\u00fd popis procesu vyvra\u017e\u010fov\u00e1n\u00ed tis\u00edc\u016f \u017eid\u016f se st\u0159\u00edd\u00e1 s \u010dasto filosofick\u00fdmi debatami nejen nad v\u00e1le\u010dn\u00fdmi ud\u00e1lostmi \u010di n\u00e1rodn\u00edm socialismem, ale i homosexu\u00e1ln\u00edmi tu\u017ebami nebo b\u011b\u017en\u00fdm \u017eivotem voj\u00e1ka SS. Zr\u016fdnost \u010din\u016f, \u010dasto naturalisticky popisov\u00e1na, b\u00fdv\u00e1 zv\u00fdraz\u0148ov\u00e1na t\u00e9m\u011b\u0159 romantick\u00fdm rozj\u00edm\u00e1n\u00edm nad kr\u00e1sou p\u0159\u00edrody kolem rod\u00edc\u00ed se ho masov\u00e9ho hrobu. Vr\u00e1t\u00edm se v\u0161ak je\u0161t\u011b k filosofick\u00fdm polemik\u00e1m, kter\u00fdch je v knize nespo\u010det. Nestane se, aby \u010dten\u00e1\u0159 nebyl nucen zamyslet se a \u0159\u00edct si alespo\u0148 s\u00e1m pro sebe, zda je dan\u00fd postoj spr\u00e1vn\u00fd a pokud ne, utvo\u0159it si vlastn\u00ed. A to pr\u00e1v\u011b proto, \u017ee hlavn\u00ed hrdina ne\u0159\u00edk\u00e1, co je \u0161patn\u011b \u010di dobr\u00e9. Je \u010di nen\u00ed homosexualita sou\u010d\u00e1st\u00ed n\u00e1rodn\u00edho socialismu? Je komunismus sv\u00fdm zp\u016fsobem tot\u00e9\u017e jako nacizmus? Je mo\u017en\u00e9 vyvra\u017edit mal\u00fd n\u00e1rod v hor\u00e1ch jen na z\u00e1klad\u011b jazyka, kter\u00fdm mluv\u00ed? Kdo konkr\u00e9tn\u011b je vinen za holocaust \u2013 kolektiv? Jednotlivec? Vzhledem k tomu, \u017ee Littell p\u011bt let studoval problematiku, d\u00e1 se o\u010dek\u00e1vat, \u017ee ve\u0161ker\u00e9 historick\u00e9 souvislosti budou odpov\u00eddat realit\u011b. Pokud m\u00e1me v\u011b\u0159it v\u0161em recenz\u00edm, anal\u00fdz\u00e1m \u010di zm\u00ednk\u00e1m dostupn\u00fdch na Internetu, pak se mu to povedlo. Nikdo zat\u00edm nena\u0161el nic, co by historick\u00e1 fakta zpochyb\u0148ovalo. To knize p\u0159id\u00e1v\u00e1 dal\u0161\u00ed hodnotnou dimenzi. Pokud jste ve \u0161kole ned\u00e1vali pozor (a pokud jste se v\u016fbec k t\u00e9to l\u00e1tce v na\u0161em uboh\u00e9m \u0161kolstv\u00ed dostali), pak zde na\u010derp\u00e1te mnoho znalost\u00ed z ned\u00e1vn\u00e9 historie a to nenucenou formou. Dojem z knihy mi kazily \u010dty\u0159i v\u011bci. Zvolen\u00fd font na m\u011b ze za\u010d\u00e1tku p\u016fsobil odpudiv\u011b, ale po n\u011bkolika des\u00edtk\u00e1ch stran jsem si zvykl. Ob\u010das se vyskytne p\u0159eklep (v\u0161iml jsem si asi \u010dty\u0159), na dvou m\u00edstech autor pou\u017e\u00edv\u00e1 a\u017e trapn\u00fd osl\u00ed m\u016fstek, jak se z jedn\u00e9 situace dostat do dal\u0161\u00ed a kone\u010dn\u011b to, co hlavn\u00ed postava provedla Hitlerovi, bylo a\u017e nem\u00edstn\u011b trapn\u00e9/sm\u011b\u0161n\u00e9 (nehod\u00edc\u00ed se \u0161krtn\u011bte). Na druhou stranu \u0161lo o drobnosti, kter\u00e9 mohu odpustit. V\u0161e ostatn\u00ed d\u00e1v\u00e1 na tyto nedostatky zapomenout a cel\u00e1 kniha graduje do z\u00e1v\u011bre\u010dn\u00e9 sc\u00e9ny, kterou jsem rozhodn\u011b ne\u010dekal (pravda, dala se p\u0159edpokl\u00e1dat). Rozhodn\u011b ale po p\u0159e\u010dten\u00ed doporu\u010duji vr\u00e1tit se na \u00favod. Znovu si uv\u011bdomit to, co je z\u00e1sadn\u00ed \u2013 kdo je vlastn\u011b nejnebezpe\u010dn\u011bj\u0161\u00ed. Z toho m\u016f\u017ee toti\u017e zatrnout asi nejv\u00edc. Zvl\u00e1\u0161t\u011b, pokud najde paralely s dne\u0161n\u00edm sv\u011btem. Kniha z\u0159ejm\u011b nebude pro ka\u017ed\u00e9ho, by\u0165 ji lze ka\u017ed\u00e9mu p\u0159edlo\u017eit. Cel\u00fd text je zna\u010dn\u011b emotivn\u00ed a ovliv\u0148uje psychiku a chov\u00e1n\u00ed. \u010clov\u011bk si uv\u011bdomuje, \u017ee to cel\u00e9 kolem n\u011bj, \u010d\u00edm dnes \u017eije v t\u00e9to republice pln\u00e9 malosti, je jen iluze l\u00e1sky k \u017eivotu. ...more (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) Middle-aged French intellectual Jonathan Littell caused a sensation in 2006 with his infamous The Kindly Ones (finally published in the US for the first time in 2008), a thousand-page historical novel which attempts to take the most complicated look ever at what turned a bunch of otherwise boring, middle- (Reprinted from the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:]. I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted illegally.) Middle-aged French intellectual Jonathan Littell caused a sensation in 2006 with his infamous The Kindly Ones (finally published in the US for the first time in 2008), a thousand-page historical novel which attempts to take the most complicated look ever at what turned a bunch of otherwise boring, middle-class Germans into amoral monsters during the Nazi period of the 1920s through '40s (which, by the way, turns out to mostly be the same things that turned a bunch of otherwise boring, middle-class Americans into amoral monsters during the Bush years), chief among these reasons the culture of endless brutal public violence that was perpetuated in those days, said endless violence of which Littell faithfully reproduces in his own book, which is what mainly caused its infamy in the first place. But as I quickly realized when starting to make my way through it myself a few weeks ago, Littell could've actually accomplished this in a tight 300-page manuscript if he wanted; so what this doorstop mostly turns out to be instead is an insanely exhaustive examination of the jumbled bureaucracy that held Nazi Germany together, containing thousands upon thousands of offhanded references to the hundreds of sub-divisions within the party's executive structure and military setup, none of which are explained within the text itself but rather in a dense glossary at the end of the book. Seriously, Littell, you're freaking killing me here. Also, Littell made the unfortunate decision to make our everyman narrator the perpetrator of a whole series of ultra-prurient sexual fetishes as well, references to which the narrator is constantly dropping into his recollection here of the war years, as casually as if he were discussing the weather (take for example his nostalgic reminisces about the solo nighttime forest wanderings he used to be able to take as a child, before mentioning that the main reason he treasures them is because he was able to indulge in his habit of auto-erotic asphyxiation without any interruptions); and this not only dilutes the book's main message (that most evil acts in history are not committed by inherently evil people, but rather normal people put into evil circumstances), but is also something I personally found profoundly offputting and completely pointless as well. The good parts of this book really are good, don't get me wrong, just that they're miniscule and surrounded by dozens of pages of needlessly disgusting or yawn-inducing fluff; and that's why I gave up on The Kindly Ones less than 200 pages into it, and recommend that you not even start it at all. Out of 10: 5.4 ...more Non capisco tutto l'entusiasmo per questo romanzo. Prima di tutto non capisco la necessit\u00e0 di fare di Aue un nazista: il protagonista \u00e8 un burocrate che potrebbe appartenere ad ogni paese e ad ogni tempo. Anzi, questa carriera nelle SS forse toglie qualcosa allo spessore del personaggio; Aue ha una sua propria pazzia che, inserita nel contesto nazista, sembra vadano a scusarsi l'una con l'altro: solo un pazzo pu\u00f2 fare una tale carriera nell'esercito tedesco e solo un nazista pu\u00f2 avere certi sogn Non capisco tutto l'entusiasmo per questo romanzo. Prima di tutto non capisco la necessit\u00e0 di fare di Aue un nazista: il protagonista \u00e8 un burocrate che potrebbe appartenere ad ogni paese e ad ogni tempo. Anzi, questa carriera nelle SS forse toglie qualcosa allo spessore del personaggio; Aue ha una sua propria pazzia che, inserita nel contesto nazista, sembra vadano a scusarsi l'una con l'altro: solo un pazzo pu\u00f2 fare una tale carriera nell'esercito tedesco e solo un nazista pu\u00f2 avere certi sogni (dovuti certamente anche alle cose fatte e viste da sveglio) e certe uscite scatologiche. La parte pi\u00f9 interessante \u00e8 quella iniziale, sul fronte russo, con Voss e il suo lavoro di linguista, con i dibattiti antropologico-razziali e con la comparsa del vecchio ebreo dall'aurea mistica. Al rientro da Stalingrado l'ambientazione storica mi diventa pi\u00f9 conosciuta, con Berlino e i vari campi e i russi che entrano in citt\u00e0. Non \u00e8 un brutto libro, affatto, ma non \u00e8 quello scandalo dichiarato da alcuni critici e nemmeno quel ricettacolo di malvagit\u00e0 descritto in alcune recensioni. A livello di crudelt\u00e0 Littell non inventa nulla e si limita a rieditare le testimonianze dei sopravvissuti ai lager, grazie al cielo senza romanzarle troppo. Sinceramente \u00e8 pi\u00f9 lungo del dovuto e forse avrebbe dovuto dedicare qualche pagina in pi\u00f9 alla pazzia e alla personalit\u00e0 di Aue, alla sua relazione con la sorella e alla sua infanzia. ...more I read this book in its French original version - which is important, because many American reviews are harsh with the author's writing style, and that may be due to the translation: Littell's French is actually quite beautiful - he writes in a direct, precise, elegantly classic way, and it does perfectly serve his story as well as it fits the narrator's voice. This story is, of course, at the center of the huge controversy the novel is creating - a controversy that has exploded in every country I read this book in its French original version - which is important, because many American reviews are harsh with the author's writing style, and that may be due to the translation: Littell's French is actually quite beautiful - he writes in a direct, precise, elegantly classic way, and it does perfectly serve his story as well as it fits the narrator's voice. This story is, of course, at the center of the huge controversy the novel is creating - a controversy that has exploded in every country where the book has been published, including in France, although the book won two of the most prestigious French literary prizes, and became a gigantic best-seller. Let's put it this way: The Kindly Ones is an extraordinary book, but it's also not without some flaws, and it is sometimes extremely difficult to read because of its subject matter. The Holocaust, and the horrors perpetrated by the Nazis, will always remain controversial material for any book of fiction - and that's understandable. Littell, though, has done the unthinkable: he's put himself into the skin of a member of the SS, who narrates his experiences through WWII - sparing us no details of the horrendous actions the Nazis did in Ukraine or in the camps, for example, but also taking us to the siege of Stalingrad, one of the darkest hour of WWII, or to the apocalyptic fall of Germany, and, more precisely, Berlin. All those pages are so vividly written, with such an incredible and indelible sense of detail, that the reader feels he's right there, where the action is taking place. Many people have been offended by those pages - mostly the ones describing the massacres of the Jews. But the thing is, those pages describe what happened, and how it happened - not with the intellectual distance of the historian, but through the eyes of a willing participant who obliges the reader to look, and to smell, and to walk among the bodies, and not to turn away. Yes, it's hell on Earth. But these events are not fiction. The horror was real - and Littell wants us to feel it in every way. His amazing talent is to write about all this as if he had been there, at the time. It's certainly very disturbing - but Littell never excuses his anti-hero, nor does he in any way condone his actions. The author's other incredible achievement is the way he describes how the Nazi machine worked during the war: the structure in power was an amazingly complex political machine, yet Littell seems to know all there is to know about it, and he takes the reader inside that world like no other writer has done it. His novel is massive: 900 pages, and it clearly hopes to be on the level of Grossman's masterpiece Life and Fate. It comes close. I read it fast. Despite the myriads of names, actions, scenes, and the intricate details of the war events that follow each other in an unstoppable flow (there are no chapters), it never is an incomprehensible book. On the contrary. Now, of course, the question is: what has Littell tried to achieve? Everybody has an opinion on the matter. I personally believe that he has tried to show us how what happened could happen, and what kind of men (sometimes intelligent, educated, sophisticated men) did what they did. What better way to do that but to let a Nazi speak? Littell's narrator believes in Nazism, is anti-semitic, participates to the holocaust: through him, we have a glimpse of how some people can justify their actions to themselves, feel a certain way about another group of human beings, and be an active part of a repressive system. As for the capacity of violence, obviously Littell thinks that everybody has it in itself: it's not a very new idea, but he demonstrates its reality with startling effects. One problem is that the main character, Aue,happens to be a very tortured man, whose past is littered with dark secrets, and who is a psychopath: I wonder if the book would not have been stronger if Aue had been a much more ordinary man. Most Germans were. When it comes to the parts of the story that are pure fiction (Aue's past, his loves, etc), Littell's is on more shaky grounds, and is not as in control of his narration as he is when he writes about the war. He's even boring and repetitive when he goes on and on about his character's sexual fantasies. The last 100 pages suffer from those flaws. But overall, The Kindly Ones is an extremely impressive achievement, which shows us the \"bowels\" of the Nazi party (much more than the bowels of Nazi Germany - there is a difference) like nobody else has done it before - actually, like nobody else has ever dared doing it. It is shocking, often disgusting, and you'll have nightmares. But it is an important book. I don't think, unlike some critics, that it's an unhealthy, perverse, gross, sick novel. Quite the contrary. The tour of hell it obliges us to take is a tour of humankind at its worse, and it's essential, in our days and age, to have the courage to face what supposedly civilized people can do. Yes, the events that Littell writes about are repulsive and unbelievably horrific. But he has not invented them. He has just found a way (reprehensible, according to some) to bring us as close as possible to them, and to one of the most nightmarish moment of our History, not because he wants us to take pleasure in reading about it all (and unless you're a sick person, you won't), but to make us think. And, indeed, this book made me think like few books have. It is a very unique novel. I wouldn't recommend it to everybody, for obvious reasons. But I do believe it'll remain one of the great, even if always controversial, novels of our era. ...more Creator of the biggest literary storm in France since the Surrealists trashed Latin Quarter caf\u00e9s, Littel's first-person narrative of an SS officer's participation in the death squads has attracted moral and historical wranglings from fields as far as Julia Kristeva to Shoah survivors to opportunistic politicians. No-one does literary controversy like the French; but in spite of this, French critics have all but ignored certain aspects of a mainly extraordinary book, (aspects which will no doubt Creator of the biggest literary storm in France since the Surrealists trashed Latin Quarter caf\u00e9s, Littel's first-person narrative of an SS officer's participation in the death squads has attracted moral and historical wranglings from fields as far as Julia Kristeva to Shoah survivors to opportunistic politicians. No-one does literary controversy like the French; but in spite of this, French critics have all but ignored certain aspects of a mainly extraordinary book, (aspects which will no doubt be addressed once the German and American translations are released), namely, the book's utterly pulp nature in parts, its genre-melding and clich\u00e9-abounding, which, though Littel used to write science fiction, critics here seem blind to. One of the most important books of the France of the new century, with no doubt. ...more Mi ritiro per deliberare. I read this in 2011 and wrote a lengthy review at the time, so may as well post it here. * * * Reading this book was a very intense experience, which I'm now going to ramble about. 'The Kindly Ones' is an account of the second world war told in the first person by an SS officer, so be warned that it is not what you would call pleasant. I suppose there may also be spoilers, although I will avoid any details that would in my view affect the experience of reading it yourself. I hardly know where to st I read this in 2011 and wrote a lengthy review at the time, so may as well post it here. * * * Reading this book was a very intense experience, which I'm now going to ramble about. 'The Kindly Ones' is an account of the second world war told in the first person by an SS officer, so be warned that it is not what you would call pleasant. I suppose there may also be spoilers, although I will avoid any details that would in my view affect the experience of reading it yourself. I hardly know where to start. This novel is as dense, intense, and horrifying as any I've ever read. It has been translated from French and includes quite a lot of German terms (all relating to the SS and its activities). The sentences are long, the paragraphs interminable and abrupt-ending. All this adds to the sense that you are in the head of the narrator, Dr. Max Aue. The book is his memoir and revolves so closely around him as to feel claustrophobic. No character he encounters has any real depth, nor clear motives. The reader experiences the second world war through Aue's eyes and other senses. By the end, I felt as if I knew him, much better than I wanted to and too well to be able to make any unequivocal judgement about him. At the start of the novel, Dr. Aue is at pains to point out to the reader that he is just like us, an ordinary man who did horrible things due to circumstance. He is articulate and persuasive, presenting the point that in war men not only lose their right to live, but also their right not to kill. However even at the very start, when we know nothing of his life, there is a deeply unsettling undercurrent to this. For one thing, we know he was in the SS. For another, he drops hints and describes physical ailments which seem like manifestations of deep psychological disturbance. I initially read this introductory chapter then put aside the book for a few weeks to read five others. None of them were bad, but when I came back to this it was as if I was drinking black coffee after nothing but glasses of water. I finished the remaining 800 pages in just over a week. As the novel unfolds, you follow Aue across Europe as he is sent to undertake various bureaucratic tasks. Because, essentially, he is a bureaucrat. In point of fact, this novel is enough to give you a phobia of bureaucracy. Aue is not a soldier, he is an intellectual who claims that in another life he would have been happy writing literature and playing the piano. His tasks as an SS officer largely involve writing reports, the macabre horror of which lies in their implications. Whilst in the Ukraine, he is tasked with determining whether a race of so-called 'mountain Jews' are Jews according to the Nazi definition. This involves quite a bit of data-gathering, the consultation of experts, and ultimately a conference. The implication remains unspoken - if his report decides that this group are in fact sufficiently Jewish to meet the definition, they will all be killed. To Aue, this is a purely academic matter, and it irritates him that different groups within the occupying German force try to sully his endeavour with political machinations. He has no interest in the fate of the Mountain Jews after he makes his report; that is someone else's job. That is horrifying enough. Later in the book, he is given a much more shocking task - to inspect the concentration camps and determine how to make their inmates more productive as workers. By this point, the Nazis are starting to lose the war and a contradiction is emerging; slave labour can only be used to help the war effort as long as the slaves are kept alive. Different government ministries have different aims (production, destruction) with overlapping jurisdictions. But ultimately the whole infrastructure has been put in place primarily to ensure that the Jews, criminals, gypsies, Poles, and political dissidents die as quickly as possible. Aue writes many reports on how greater productivity could be wrung from the concentration camps, but is constantly frustrated by the inability of his superiors to implement his ideas. By this point, he tells us, it is too late and events have their own momentum. A more stark illustration of the principles of political economy would be hard to find. The depictions of the concentration camps are horrific, as you might expect, yet it is still more unsettling to hear them framed as administrative complaints, with the constants deaths a mere inefficiency. One character who stuck in my mind was a judge determined to bring a number of concentration camp administrators to justice for corruption; they stole money, clothes, etc from the camp's victims. He is presented as a principled man, outraged that the perpetrators are stealing German state property. The fact that these items were stolen from Jews and other camp inmates, who were then killed, he doesn't even think to address. Again, someone else's job. It is the contrasts, I think, that make The Kindly Ones so disturbing. The banality of meetings with functionaries and report-preparation, when compared with their genocidal subject matter. In addition, the contrast of methodical bureaucratic procedure with chaotic madness, which constantly hovers at the edge of events and at times completely subsumes them. Aue is an unreliable narrator, apparently oblivious to or uncaring of his mental instability. There are periods when illness or memory tips him into utter insanity and melodramatic perversion. Not for nothing did this novel win a Bad Sex award. In another setting, his hallucinations and obsessions could seem laughable, perhaps pathetic. In context, they add to the terrible atmosphere of a society that has gone horribly wrong and is trying to repress the fact. Moreover, they make the narrative strikingly tense and unpredictable; the reader already knows with the benefit of hindsight that Germany is going to lose the war. The sequences in which Aue encounters front-line fighting are characterised by mayhem and insanity, which fits with the non-fiction accounts that I've read. On the other hand, such first-hand accounts ('With the Old Breed', 'Band of Brothers', etc) always emphasise the close bonds of soldiers, that sustain them in terrible conditions. There is none of that in Aue's world. His relationships are probably best described as complicated; too much detail might spoil the plot. Comradeship seems alien to him, he loves only one person and likes very few. Those he does form connections with frequently leave or even perish. This isn't surprising given his job and the war, but also seems to reinforce his underlying madness. He avoids people, pushes them away, damages them. Has the war and the SS warped him, or was he already damaged and thus ended up where he did? The disjunct between personal and professional is a matter to ponder. In his job, Aue is controlled and precise, whereas his personal life is very much the opposite. Nevertheless, a certain callousness pervade both. In the latter half of the book, I toyed with thoughts of Aue as a metaphor for all Nazi Germany. This is a comparison he makes himself at one point, but it's not a simple one. He knows himself to be responsible for murdering many people, both with his own hands and tacitly through report-writing, but refuses to regret or feel guilt. The institutional edifice in which he found himself made it unthinkable to do other than as he did, or to believe other than that it was necessary for Germany. As the war is lost, he saves himself and starts afresh. This brings us to the title. The Kindly Ones are the Furies of Greek myth; you might remember them from the Sandman series. Also known as the Erinyes, they personify vengeance for horrible crimes, specifically the murder of family members. In the novel, two detectives are clear personifications of the Furies, pursuing Aue through the increasing chaos and violence of war until he finally escapes them at the end. I was shocked by own ambivalence about this; the writing is such that you feel Aue's desperation at the pursuit of the avenging detectives. They are surely right to pursue him, as he has committed terrible crimes, some of which he won't even admit to himself. Yet you feel Aue's claustrophobic sense of needing to escape, from his pursuers, from the chaos of war, from his past. The reader is invited to understand him, I wouldn't go so far as to say sympathise, and to despise his Furies. There's so much more I could say, but I'm out of practise at literary analysis and 975 pages of complex prose could provoke an endless stream of thoughts. To conclude, what is truly amazing about this novel, to me, is that it feels honest. It may be fiction, but Dr. Max Aue is a convincing character and the big events that he describes happened. If a particularly articulate mid-ranking SS officer were to write his memoirs, who can say that they wouldn't have this tone? Why did I read this novel? Because a couple of years ago I came across a review of it, in the London Review of Books I think, which stuck with me until I saw it in the library. Like many, I find the horrifying parts of recent history fascinating, and I feel a hunger to try and understand why terrible things happened. There's truth in the old saw that those who cannot remember the past are doomed to repeat it, in my view. Surely this is why the rise of Hitler and the Nazis is taught so intensively in GCSE and A-level history? The Holocaust happened within living memory, when my grandparents were my age. Other crimes against humanity have happened before and since, but this one holds particular sway over the British psyche, I think. Perhaps because it happened so nearby? I'm not a historian and shouldn't speculate. 'The Kindly Ones' has no easy answers. I could unequivocally condemn Max Aue as a criminal, a murderer, and a monster, but what would that achieve? How did he come to commit such crimes? Were his actions any worse than those of his peers? How did norms of behaviour become so extreme and horrifying at that time? Can we blame the abstraction of war, as Aue seems to? How much can political leaders take the blame for individual action? Pondering this reminds me that so much current fiction, TV, and films, unwittingly or otherwise trivialises violence and death. For a novel entirely suffused with both, 'The Kindly Ones' most definitely does not. It takes great writing to confront you with so many fundamental questions. 'The Kindly Ones' is relentless, horrifying, and stunning; I will carry on thinking about it for a long time. * * * 'The Kindly Ones' has indeed stayed in my mind. I'll re-read it one of these days. ...more I don't think I've ever read a book that received a more sound bludgeoning by both critics and readers alike. While I'm decidedly not in the voluminous camp that found this work to be entirely loathsome, I'm not certain that in some ways it doesn't deserve at least a few of the many expressions of disapproval it has garnered. But having said that, I feel initially compelled to state emphatically that many of these negative critical assertions, such as those that state the text represents nothing I don't think I've ever read a book that received a more sound bludgeoning by both critics and readers alike. While I'm decidedly not in the voluminous camp that found this work to be entirely loathsome, I'm not certain that in some ways it doesn't deserve at least a few of the many expressions of disapproval it has garnered. But having said that, I feel initially compelled to state emphatically that many of these negative critical assertions, such as those that state the text represents nothing but \"Holocaust Porn\", or that the book contains pages and pages of pointlessly violent images heaped upon pointlessly violent images, are simply inaccurate and misleading. So much so that I genuinely wonder if those who make these claims actually read the book. Having read a fair amount on the subject of WWII, I feel somewhat comfortable in attesting to the fact that Littell's depictions, while unquestionably horrible and truly violent, are hardly gratuitous in nature, and ultimately serve, at least in this reader's opinion, to portray the events in question with considerable realism and accuracy. It is true that Littell does get a little carried away with this realism, but not when it comes to his portrayal of violent events. The issue is mainly evident in his many repeated references to Nazi bureaucracy. Despite the presence of a glossary in the back of the book, as one reads the text, it quickly becomes nearly impossible to disentangle the multitude of agencies and governing bodies the Nazis carved their world up into. But I think the accurate depiction of that governing system was integral to the point Littell was trying to get across. The reader isn't meant to comprehend the dizzying complexity of the Nazi system of authority any more than the characters in the text do. What is important to take away from these confusing descriptions is the understanding that the Nazis found it necessary to bury their activities in layer upon layer of labyrinthine executive and military systems in order to perpetuate and execute the inhuman objectives of the regime. Through these descriptions we also get a detailed glimpse into the monumental level of obsession the Nazis had with the Jews. Littell carefully and methodically reveals to us the impossible, yet comprehensible, reasoning behind why the Nazis continued to pursue their insane need to eradicate the Jews, even if in the face of losing the war. I always knew the Nazis lost the war due in large part to their diversion of precious resources to resolving the \"Jewish Question\", but I didn't understand the why and the how of it. Littell goes a long way towards giving us that information. There are a lot of passages in this book that will have lasting historical value, but I think the sequences that top the list have to be those which deal with the battle of Stalingrad and the fall of Berlin. Littell gives us an unbelievable perspective into what it was like to be trapped in the Kessel outside Stalingrad, wherein the German 6th army was surrounded by Soviet forces. He also give us riveting passages regarding the final moments before Russian forces finally marched in and took Berlin. During these sections I could not put this book down. In the end, If I were to make complaints about the text I would most certainly have to mention the inclusion of the mental instability of the main character. If we are to believe, as the narrator himself leads us to believe, that part of Littell's objective for this book was to show how a normal human being can be made to willingly commit horrible acts of atrocity, then by giving the main character an intensely traumatic childhood, and a consequently heavily damaged and deviant adult psychology, Littell has only served to muddy his thematic waters. I'm not certain why he felt it was necessary to include prolonged and highly disturbing sequences dealing with lurid portrayals of incest and incidents of graphic sexual deviancy. But these passages were infrequent and I passed over them rather than dwell on them, so perhaps someone of stronger constitution will be better able to provide a meaningful analysis as to there textual and thematic merit. Overall I felt this book was an important document in our continued struggle to understand the events of WWII. If you have an interest in this period and in this subject, then I would submit to you this book is now on the list of required reading. ...more", "Title": "The Kindly Ones"},
