{"Comments": "I read Moneyball at a time when I wasn't reading too much besides preschool kids books and reread it for the baseball book club I am a part of on good reads. <---A>Michael</---A> Lewis follows the story of general manager Billy Bean and his 2002 Oakland As, a low budget baseball team that managed to win their division going away. What is remarkable is that Bean built his team focusing on sabermetrics, not home runs and RBIs. He knew he did not have money to compete with the Yankees of the world and assembled I read Moneyball at a time when I wasn't reading too much besides preschool kids books and reread it for the baseball book club I am a part of on good reads. Michael Lewis follows the story of general manager Billy Bean and his 2002 Oakland As, a low budget baseball team that managed to win their division going away. What is remarkable is that Bean built his team focusing on sabermetrics, not home runs and RBIs. He knew he did not have money to compete with the Yankees of the world and assembled a team of Harvard brainiacs to read stats in order to then assemble the best low cost baseball team his money could buy. An amazing thing happened: the As team of damaged players won 20 games in a row on their way to a division title. The east coast establishment took notice and offered Bean a job at season's end. He declined and these years later his heart is still with the As determined to win in their crumbling ballpark with a lower budget team than before. Postscript: teams are focusing on sabermetrics and big budget teams like the Yankees are floundering. The last World Series champion, the Royals. The best two up and coming teams with stocked farm systems who have entire teams of Harvard brainiacs at their disposal running stats: the Cubs and Astros. Even the Yankees are building their team around up and coming players. Sabermetrics is here to stay even if it isn't as fun to watch as a home run. I have tried to read Lewis' other books but did not got get into them because they are about money, not baseball. Maybe I will try again because Lewis writes in a manner that makes his subject accessible to all readers.<---F> Highly recommended to all</---F>. ...more \u201cThe pleasure of rooting for Goliath is that you can expect to win. The pleasure of rooting for David is that,<---M> while you don\u2019t know what to expect</---M>, you stand at least a chance of being inspired.\u201d This book came out in 2003, and the movie version came out in 2011; yet, it is amazing to me that despite the success shown by the Oakland As under the guidance of Billy Beane, baseball, for the most part, is still focusing on the wrong things. Just recently the manager of the New York Mets, Terry Colli \u201cThe pleasure of rooting for Goliath is that you can expect to win. The pleasure of rooting for David is that, while you don\u2019t know what to expect, you stand at least a chance of being inspired.\u201d This book came out in 2003, and the movie version came out in 2011; yet, it is amazing to me that despite the success shown by the Oakland As under the guidance of Billy Beane, baseball, for the most part, is still focusing on the wrong things. Just recently the manager of the New York Mets, Terry Collins, who commands one of the best teams in the world, said in an interview after the World Series: \u201cI\u2019m not sure how much an old-school guy can add to the game today,\u2019\u2019 Collins told USA Today. \u201cIt\u2019s become a young man\u2019s game, especially with all of the technology stuff you\u2019ve got to be involved in. I\u2019m not very good at it. I don\u2019t enjoy it like other people do. I\u2019m not going to sit there today and look at all of these (expletive) numbers and try to predict this guy is going to be a great player. OPS this. OPS that. GPS. LCSs. DSDs. You know who has good numbers? Good (expletive) players.\u201d Terry Collins said: \u201cShit Happens\u201d at a press conference. Billy Beane must have rolled his eyes. The MLB network show Hot Stove was incensed that Collins would make such a statement in this day and age, especially since they could track several \u201cgut\u201d decisions he made during the World Series that probably cost them a chance to win it. The most glaring error was when he decided to pull the pitcher, Matt Harvey, in the 9th inning of game five only to change his mind and send him back out there after Harvey complained. Collins looked into the player\u2019s eyes and saw what he wanted to see. It was the third time through the order. Harvey had pitched brilliantly, but statistically, that bad word that Collins doesn\u2019t like. When you look at the Royals, they get to pitchers late. The Royals got to Harvey and knocked him out of the game, which left a mess for Jeurys Familia to come into the game to try and save. Royals Win! Eric Hosmer going off the Billy Beane script for success, but man, was it dramatic. I about had a heartattack. The Royals deviate from Billy Beane ball at many junctures. One being the most dramatic play of the series when Eric Hosmer steals home. Beane does not believe in stealing bases, too risky, and if you steal a base on a Billy Beane team, you better make sure you are safe. The Royals also occasionally bunt to move a runner, which doesn\u2019t fit the Beane philosophy. He believes in managing outs and never giving up an out to advance a runner. The Royals have speedy wheels and frequently turn bunts into base hits, which would probably keep them from finding themselves subjugated to a Billy Beane lecture. You can go off script, but just be right. The Royals are a homegrown team. Most of the players have come from the farm club system, although they are a bit too athletic and good looking for a Billy Beane ball club. One of the things that Beane talks about is getting away from players who could sell jeans. He should know; he was one of those players that looked like a Greek God in a uniform. He was drafted in 1980 along with another phenom that even those people who don\u2019t follow baseball probably recognize his name...Darryl Strawberry. Beane was an interesting enough prospect that, for a while, the Mets were even considering taking him in the draft first instead of Strawberry. Both were amazing specimens of what we want athletes to look like. The Mets ended up taking Beane, too, but with the 23rd pick. Beane had all the physical gifts to be successful, but sports is not just about the body; it is about the mind. Billy had a lot of expectations for himself, and those expectations became insecurities that eventually evolved into a gifted player being unable to play the game. Billy Beane on the verge of a stardom that somehow eluded him. He is exactly the player who Billy now tries to avoid. He asked for a job in the As front office, and that began an odyssey in search of those players who were \u201dballplayers\u201d , not pretty head cases, not players that hit home runs and created RBIs, but players that could control the strike zone. As he tore apart the As organization, he got rid of the scouts who were still insisting on signing Apolloesque ballplayers and sold off overpriced talent. Ownership wasn\u2019t giving him much money to work with anyway, so instead of buying expensive talent, he had to sell expensive talent and replace it with a motley group of players whom no one else wanted, but who had the one important element he wanted most, OPS (on base plus slugging), i.e. these guys knew how to get on base. These players had a menagerie of interesting things wrong with them that had other clubs looking to get rid of them, which made them perfect for Billy Beane. One pitcher had club feet. They were below average fielders. They were overweight. They threw sidearm pitches. They were older players on their way out. They were players too green for any other team to consider playing them. You can\u2019t win with players like this! Well, maybe you can. Exhibit A: The standings at the end of the season in the American League West in 2002. Wins Losses Games Behind Payroll Oakland 103 59 ---- $41,942,665 Anaheim 99 63 4 $62,757,041 Seattle 93 69 10 $86,084,710 Texas 72 90 31 $106,915,180 Now the interesting thing is notice the payroll compared to the wins. The more money a team spent the fewer games they won. If I had been the Texas Rangers owner, I\u2019d be looking at these results and think to myself, What am I paying for? Baseball is in love with RBIs and Home Runs. They think those are the things about baseball that put butts in seats. As the Royals made their way through the playoffs in the American league in 2015, they encountered two teams that depended on the home run to win ball games. The Royals hit 95 home runs in 2014, which placed them dead last at 30th among major league baseball teams. In 2015, they improved to 139 home runs, but were still 24th in the league. Their opponent in the playoffs in 2015, the Toronto Blue Jays, were 1st in all of major league baseball with 232 home runs. Their other opponent, the Houston Astros, hit 230 home runs and were second in the league for home runs. Jose Bautista hit several dramatic home runs in the playoffs, including the famous bat flip home run, but despite those fence clearing bombs, they were unable to advance in the playoffs. Jacking up home runs might equal playoffs, but it doesn\u2019t seem to equal winning world championships. Even the Mets hit 177 home runs for 9th in the league. They did win the pennant, but still fell short of winning a world championship. To my eye, they are a more complete offensive ballclub than Houston or Toronto and will be contenders again this year, but not because they hit a lot of home runs. So why is major league baseball so reluctant to embrace the philosophy of Moneyball? \u201dAnti-intellectual resentment is common in all of American life and it has many diverse expressions.\u201d For instance, preferring high school players in the draft over college players, even though statistically college players do better. College athletes have played against stiffer competition. They have honed their skills. They have more reliable stats to give a general manager a better clue to how they will perform at the next level. I admire the Mets. They are a terrific team. I still have a lot of nostalgia for Gary Carter and the Miracle Mets of 1986, and if the Royals hadn\u2019t been playing against them last year, I would have been rooting for them in the World Series. I have to say that Terry Collins\u2019 comments about basically comparing statistics to voodoo was disappointing to me. I don\u2019t mean to pick on Collins, but his comments came after he made several decisions in the face of a pile of data to the contrary that probably cost his team at least a better chance to win the World Series. He is not alone. Baseball is still filled with owners, GMs, and managers who believe that home runs and RBIs are the most important statistics and the best way to win championships. The Royals, after all, are an anomaly, right? It was the same things teams were saying about the As in the early 2000s. I think of all those ballplayers who really know how to play the game, who are stuck in the minor leagues because they hit too many singles or walked too many times, and didn\u2019t launch enough missiles over the back fence. I loved this book because I\u2019m a fan of baseball, but the book had a much bigger impact on me. I started thinking about and applying Billy Beane principles to my own business. We are a company mired in traditions and traditional thinking and long overdue for an overhaul in philosophy to meet new challenges. Like all companies, we need to become more efficient, more lean, more targeted to what wins ball games rather than what creates a big splash. I\u2019m buying copies of this book for the rest of the management staff, and we are going to talk about singles and doubles and managing our outs. Maybe we, too, can get our Royal on. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more Having the misfortune of being a Kansas City Royals fan, I thought I\u2019d had any interest in baseball beaten out of me by season after season of humiliation. Plus, the endless debate about the unfairness of large market vs. small market baseball had made my eyes glaze over years ago so I didn\u2019t pay much attention to the Moneyball story until the movie came out last year and caught my interest enough to finally check this out. Despite being a small market team and outspent by tens of millions of dol Having the misfortune of being a Kansas City Royals fan, I thought I\u2019d had any interest in baseball beaten out of me by season after season of humiliation. Plus, the endless debate about the unfairness of large market vs. small market baseball had made my eyes glaze over years ago so I didn\u2019t pay much attention to the Moneyball story until the movie came out last year and caught my interest enough to finally check this out. Despite being a small market team and outspent by tens of millions of dollars by clubs like the Yankees, the Oakland A\u2019s managed to be extremely competitive from 1999 through 2006. They did this when their general manager Billy Beane embraced a new type of baseball statistics called sabermetrics that had been championed by a stat head from Kansas named Bill James. James had pored over box scores and started seriously questioning the traditional ways of measuring the performance of players with his initially self-published digests that eventually became must reads for hardcore baseball nerdlingers. As the digital age made mountains of baseball stats available on-line, fans with a mathematical frame of mind (And there are a lot of them.) started coming up with ways of looking at the data that called the old ways of evaluating players into question. Beane had plenty of reason to distrust the old way of scouting since he had once been identified as a can\u2019t-miss prospect who ended up quitting as a player to take a job in the front office after his career flamed out. By coming up with new ways to grade performance and ignoring things that other teams deemed flaws like being overweight or having a peculiar throwing motion, the A\u2019s went after low dollar high-impact players who made them one of the winningest teams with the lowest payroll in baseball. The sport has always had a weird intersection of nerd and jock, and this story illustrates that dynamic very well as Beane and his staff decided to trust the numbers rather than conventional wisdom. The conflict between the two worlds is a fascinating story, and the brash Beane makes a great focal point. It\u2019s a great book not just for sports fans, but for anyone who likes stories about people trying to shake up an established way of doing things. And if you\u2019re a math geek or have a thing for hard nosed business deals, there\u2019s a lot to like here. By framing the story in terms of the people involved, Lewis keeps it relatable in human terms and not just a dry recitation of on base percentages. The movie is also extremely well done and entertaining (Hence the Oscar nomination for Best Picture.),but the Aaron Sorkin screenplay vastly simplifies the story and Hollywoodizes it to an extreme degree. Still, it\u2019s a great flick for anyone who has a soft spot for stories about underdogs. ...more This is a good book, but not as good as I thought it was going to be. Sometimes I find technical writing to be a bit repetitive and this definitely leans more toward technical non-fiction than biography (I was hoping for more of a human interest story here)\u2014because even though Billy Beane takes up a large chunk of the story, it isn\u2019t really a story about Billy Bean per se. Moneyball was published in 2003, only a year after John Henry bought the Boston Red Sox. Before that time, very few people in This is a good book, but not as good as I thought it was going to be. Sometimes I find technical writing to be a bit repetitive and this definitely leans more toward technical non-fiction than biography (I was hoping for more of a human interest story here)\u2014because even though Billy Beane takes up a large chunk of the story, it isn\u2019t really a story about Billy Bean per se. Moneyball was published in 2003, only a year after John Henry bought the Boston Red Sox. Before that time, very few people in baseball had ever heard the term sabermetrics , never mind tried to implement it into a strategy for drafting and trading players\u2014very few people, that is, besides Billy Beane. What\u2019s fascinating about Beane is how much he had to struggle against the tide in order to apply the statistical approach of sabermetrics to his managing of the Oakland Athletics. Of course, given the payroll of the A\u2019s in the early 2000s one might argue that he had no choice. But still, he was the first general manager in baseball to attempt it, so his story is unique. But why the struggle? Any baseball fan could tell you how important it is to get on base, that patience at the plate is in fact doubly rewarding as it wears down opposing pitching and draws walks. And walks are huge! They extend an inning by avoiding an out, and they put a man on base which statistically leads to a greater probability of runs scored. The reverse is also true: base stealing attempts and sacrifice bunts are no-no\u2019s in the world of sabermetrics precisely because they have the effect of potentially shortening an inning, leading to a lower probability of runs scored. It is simply not worth the calculated risk to try to advance a base runner. So why were these concepts so difficult for baseball operations managers (besides Beane) to understand? This is essentially what the author investigates here, and the easy answer lies somewhere in the fact that baseball managers are curmudgeons who are used to doing things a certain way and don\u2019t want any smart alec college boy with his pocket protector changin\u2019 the way things \u2018er done. Also, Joe Morgan is a buffoon. I think this is basically old news, but I was still pleased to have my suspicions confirmed. So the story here is definitely interesting, but like I said, the argument in favor of a more objective approach to baseball decision-making is something that I already subscribe to ( Yeah, Science! ), so the argument itself does become rather repetitive. Being a baseball fan, though, there are a few things I did enjoy, specifically Billy Beane trying to steal Kevin Youkilis out from under the noses of the Red Sox brass. At first, even though I obviously knew how things would turn out, I was almost rooting for Beane (who, by the way, was John Henry\u2019s initial choice for managing his new organization), but I quickly checked myself and did a Jersey Shore\u2013style fist pump when Theo Epstein refuses to let himself be outsmarted by that West Coast punk! And now that I\u2019ve read this book, I think I\u2019ll see the movie. ...more \u201cIt breaks your heart,\u201d A. Bartlett Giamatti wrote of baseball in a piece called The Green Fields of the Mind . \u201cIt is designed to break your heart.\u201d And so it does, year after year. Baseball, as has often been noted, is a game predicated on failure. The game\u2019s best hitters only succeed in roughly three out of ten at bats. A 162-game season presents a tremendous sample size, which should iron out aberrations; and yet year after year, entire seasons come down to a single bad bounce or mistimed swi \u201cIt breaks your heart,\u201d A. Bartlett Giamatti wrote of baseball in a piece called The Green Fields of the Mind . \u201cIt is designed to break your heart.\u201d And so it does, year after year. Baseball, as has often been noted, is a game predicated on failure. The game\u2019s best hitters only succeed in roughly three out of ten at bats. A 162-game season presents a tremendous sample size, which should iron out aberrations; and yet year after year, entire seasons come down to a single bad bounce or mistimed swing or hanging curve or missed call. You can spend an entire summer of lazy days drinking beer and cheering for your 100-win team, only to watch them sputter and die in a five-game series in October. It doesn\u2019t seem fair, sometimes. Michael Lewis\u2019s Moneyball is about a man who tried to crack the code, to find the secret to winning an \u201cunfair\u201d game. That man is Billy Beane, the general manager of the small market Oakland Athletics. In 2002, the A\u2019s were coming off a tremendously successful season in which they\u2019d won 102 games. After the season, however, they lost three key free agents, including all-around masher (and later-admitted PED user) Jason Giambi. Beane wanted to replicate his team\u2019s success, but he had to do it on a shoestring budget. Beane\u2019s approach was to find undervalued players with a knack for getting on base. Instead of looking simply at the time-honored statistics of batting average, home runs, and RBIs, he turned to more obscure figures like on base percentage (OBP). He believed that getting on base more-closely correlated to wins than any other metric. The baseball world largely doubted Beane\u2019s sanity. Yet the 2002 A\u2019s ended up winning one more game than their star-heavy 2001 model. Beane\u2019s revolution didn\u2019t result in a championship (for which Beane is often unfairly maligned), but it help change the game of baseball, a sport that is historically resistant to transformation. It\u2019s a testament to the impact of Lewis\u2019s book that the title has become a shorthand of sorts for the entire sabermetric movement that has altered the way players are watched, judged, and paid. Like all of Michael Lewis\u2019s books, Moneyball is addictively readable. Getting my almost-two-year-old to fall asleep every night has become an epic battle of wills. If you leave the room before she is sound asleep, she will hop up in her crib and unleash a sound akin to the war cry of the orcs on the Pelennor Fields. Then, once you get her to sleep, she will randomly wake up screaming as though her Daniel Tiger doll has caught on fire. The only way to ease her into unconsciousness is to sit with her. That\u2019s become my job. I sit with her in a dark room reading with a headlamp. Moneyball proved to be perfect for this task. It is fast paced, perceptive, and filled with memorable character sketches. Lewis has an uncanny knack for making his readers feel smart. He can take complex subjects and boil them down with such ease that you start to feel like you can learn anything. (Of course, one of the knocks on Lewis is that he is an over-simplifier. Perhaps. But that\u2019s better than a needless confuser). Lewis is a gifted storyteller. As such, he tends to find idiosyncratic characters upon which to hang his story. Beane proves to be a good choice. He ia a former ballplayer, a highly touted 5-tool athlete who became a high draft pick and a major bust. It is easy to see how his failures as a player made him eager to find a better rubric for evaluating talent. In Lewis\u2019s hands, Beane is a passionate convert with a bucketful of neuroses, such as an inability to watch the A\u2019s play live. Moneyball is partly Beane\u2019s biography. Beane, however, did not create the sabermetric movement. In this area, he stood on the shoulders of giants math nerds. The godfather of advanced statistics is Bill James, founder of the self-published statistical compilation Baseball Abstract . Lewis rightfully devotes an entire chapter to James and his acolytes, many of whom were hired by various Major League teams. They devised a new model; Beane implemented it. Moneyball was originally published in 2003, and has since been made into a motion picture. It\u2019s interesting to read it now, in light of all that has transpired. When the book first came out, it angered a lot of people in Major League Baseball. There are, it seems, a lot of innumerate luddites in the baseball world who couldn\u2019t stand the way Beane (and others like him) viewed their game. I mean, you got a guy like Dusty Baker \u2013 a freaking manager \u2013 who doesn\u2019t like walks because they \u201cclog up the bases.\u201d This kind of wrongheaded institutionalized dogma makes it difficult for fresh views to gain traction. The popularity of Moneyball helped bring the stat geeks into the mainstream. Today, advanced statistics are the norm, and even casual baseball articles make reference to wins above replacement (WAR), weighted on-base average (wOBA), and fielding-independent pitching (FIP). Beane isn\u2019t a prophet or really even a pioneer. Other teams were using advanced stats. Beane just staked a lot more on it. He also had a great promoter in Michael Lewis. In some ways, his tactics were pretty rudimentary. For instance, one of the center pieces of Moneyball is Scott Hatteberg\u2019s transition from catcher to first base. Hatteberg was an on-base machine, so Beane plugged him into first base, despite having no experience playing there. Today, with advanced defensive metrics, such a move would be even more suspect than it was at the time. As it turned out, Hatteberg ended up playing decent first base. The point is that Beane\u2019s deprecation of defense now seems rather shortsighted for a value-oriented GM. (He also undervalued the bullpen, which looks especially wrongheaded in the age of ace middle relievers and closers). Many of the players mentioned in the book as Beane favorites never quite panned out (including catcher Jeremy Brown, who plays a large role). This isn\u2019t to say that Beane was wrong in the premises, only that the game of baseball will always remain unfair. The term \u201cmoneyball\u201d has outrun its original meaning. Teams like the Red Sox and Cubs that are known for using sabermetrics also happen to have all the money in the world. Small market winners like the Kansas City Royals use a different kind of moneyball, by utilizing young, cost-controlled players, valuing defense, and utilizing outside the box thinking, such as their stocked bullpen which effectively shortens games to 6 innings. (The Royals and their manager Ned Yost did employ one quintessential Beane tactic: refusing to bunt or steal. Yost, of course, was disparaged throughout two playoff runs, right up until the moment he won the World Series. In fact, baseball\u2019s wise men are still griping that the Royals won despite the man, rather than because of him. This is par for the course in baseball). Beane and the A\u2019s have not won a World Series since the publication of Moneyball . As Beane himself admits, his tactics are great for the regular season, but don\u2019t mean squat in the playoffs. That is the nature of baseball and life. You think you have all the time in the world to get things done, and then suddenly you don\u2019t. \u201cThe game begins in the spring, when everything else begins again,\u201d A. Bartlett Giamatti wrote. \u201cWhen you need it most, it stops.\u201d ...more It was a better story before I knew the whole story. Almost every book on randomness I have read had a reference to Moneyball and I had built up my own version about this story (I had even told a few people that version!) and it imagined everybody doing what Billy Beane was doing, and Billy Beane doing some sort of probability distribution among all players and randomly picking his team, winning emphatically, and thus proving that a truly random pick of players is the equivalent of a true-simula It was a better story before I knew the whole story. Almost every book on randomness I have read had a reference to Moneyball and I had built up my own version about this story (I had even told a few people that version!) and it imagined everybody doing what Billy Beane was doing, and Billy Beane doing some sort of probability distribution among all players and randomly picking his team, winning emphatically, and thus proving that a truly random pick of players is the equivalent of a true-simulation of the market and just like how no considered selection of stock picks can ever outperform the market in the long run, a truly random representation of the baseball market cannot be outperformed by the interventionist methods of other teams over a long season. That is the story I wanted to hear. My apologies to anyone to whom I have spouted this story - it is not true. It is still probable though, when the next radical Billy Beane comes along in sports. ...more Michael Lewis hit this one out of the park. I love his writing style -- he is able to explain complex and insider ideas to a layperson, and he makes it interesting. That skill is as valuable to a reporter as a baseball player's on-base percentage was to the Oakland Athletics. The story follows the Oakland A's during the 2002 baseball season, which was when their general manager, Billy Beane, was following a different set of principles for assembling a team than the majority of the league. Beane a Michael Lewis hit this one out of the park. I love his writing style -- he is able to explain complex and insider ideas to a layperson, and he makes it interesting. That skill is as valuable to a reporter as a baseball player's on-base percentage was to the Oakland Athletics. The story follows the Oakland A's during the 2002 baseball season, which was when their general manager, Billy Beane, was following a different set of principles for assembling a team than the majority of the league. Beane and his assistant, Paul DePodesta, were applying sabermetrics, which meant they were looking for players with certain qualities that the rest of the league had undervalued. This was critical because the Oakland A's had very little money -- back then their payroll was about $40 million, compared to the New York Yankees payroll of $126 million. The stats Beane and DePodesta were most interested in were a player's on-base percentage and slugging percentage. The A's experiment worked and the team had a historical 20-game winning streak and made it to the playoffs. By now, the A's analytical tactics have widely been adopted by Major League Baseball, but back in 2002, the strategy was mocked by almost everyone inside the league. In addition to explaining baseball stats, Lewis makes the story more compelling by bringing in sports psychology, game theory and sharing the stories of statistician Bill James, Beane, and a few key players. Beane had himself played in the major leagues, but he lacked the skills to be a consistent hitter. Beane was recruited out of high school and had to decide between a pro-baseball contract or going to Stanford. \"I made one decision based on money in my life -- when I signed with the Mets rather than go to Stanford -- and I promised I'd never do it again.\" After several disappointing seasons as a player, Beane decided he would rather be a scout, and quit playing to work his way up in the A's front office. Another interesting story was that of A's first baseman Scott Hatteberg. Hatte had been a catcher for the Boston Red Sox, but after suffering nerve damage in his elbow, he could never catch again. Beane and DePodesta saw in him the potential to be a good hitter and trained him to play first base. One of my favorite chapters in the book was about Hatte and how thoughtful he was about his hitting. In a great scene, he's in the team's video room watching footage of pitcher Jamie Moyer, who Hatte will be facing later that day. Moyer was a tough pitcher and Hatte was trying to figure out a strategy. \"Moyer was one of the few pitchers in baseball who would think about Scott Hatteberg as much as Hatteberg thought about him. Moyer would know that Hatteberg never swung at the first pitch -- except to keep a pitcher honest -- and so Moyer might just throw a first-pitch strike. But Moyer would also know that Hatteberg knew that Moyer knew. Which brought Hatteberg back to square one. He was knee-deep in game theory, and he had only an hour before he had to play the game.\" I would highly recommend this book to baseball fans, even if they've seen the movie version, because the book is more in-depth and has great stories that didn't make it into the film. I think readers who like stories about underdogs would also enjoy it, because it shows how a poor team was able to change the institution of baseball. ...more This is one of the best baseball books I have ever read, and that is saying something. Lewis\u2019 focus is on Billy Bean, the GM of the Oakland Athletics. Because Oakland is a small-market team, Bean must use his brain to tease out the players who can help his team, at a reasonable cost. This makes him a sort of anti-Steinbrenner. Lewis goes into some detail on how Bean manages to field competitive teams almost every year under dire fiscal constraints. Must-read for any true baseball fan, and a sour This is one of the best baseball books I have ever read, and that is saying something. Lewis\u2019 focus is on Billy Bean, the GM of the Oakland Athletics. Because Oakland is a small-market team, Bean must use his brain to tease out the players who can help his team, at a reasonable cost. This makes him a sort of anti-Steinbrenner. Lewis goes into some detail on how Bean manages to field competitive teams almost every year under dire fiscal constraints. Must-read for any true baseball fan, and a source of hope for fans of small-market teams. The film version was a top-notch interpretation of the book, a lovely surprise. ...more In honor of the MLB postseason, I am resurrecting a book review that I wrote back in 2009. I hardly know where to begin in attempting a review of Michael Lewis\u2019 <+++>Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game</+++> . It isn\u2019t that I don\u2019t think that the book is well written, because it is. It isn\u2019t that I disagree with the conclusions that are reached in the book, because, for the most part, I don\u2019t. What bothers me, as a recovering baseball fanatic, is that I don\u2019t enjoy the game that utilizes the approac In honor of the MLB postseason, I am resurrecting a book review that I wrote back in 2009. I hardly know where to begin in attempting a review of Michael Lewis\u2019 <+++>Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game</+++> . It isn\u2019t that I don\u2019t think that the book is well written, because it is. It isn\u2019t that I disagree with the conclusions that are reached in the book, because, for the most part, I don\u2019t. What bothers me, as a recovering baseball fanatic, is that I don\u2019t enjoy the game that utilizes the approaches that are proposed in this book. Moneyball describes how the general manager of the Oakland A\u2019s, Billy Beane, has been able to use sabermetrics (statistical analysis originated by Bill James and others) to more intelligently draft players and win games. According to the proponents of this new approach: 1) offense is more important than pitching; 2) defense hardly matters at all; 3) the most important baseball statistic is on-base percentage, followed by slugging percentage; 4) stealing bases should not be attempted because it is not worth the risk; 5) the same goes for the hit-and-run; 6) never sacrifice because it is not worth giving up the out; 7) scouts are unnecessary; and 8) line-ups and game strategy are dictated to the manager by the general manager and his statistical analysts, making managers almost as unnecessary as scouts. Beane and his statistical guru, and not the scouts, decide who should be drafted. According to Lewis, the most important statistic to Beane and his statistician in determining what position players to draft is the ability of players to draw walks. They look for players (only college players for they never draft high school players) who have exhibited the ability to work deep in the count and to draw walks. I can\u2019t speak for others, but I don\u2019t watch baseball games in order to watch hitters work deep into the count, draw a walk, camp out on the bases until somebody gets an extra-base hit (or two) to drive them home. The strategy utilized by Beane and his proponents may produce a more efficient style of baseball, about that I am in no position to quibble. It may be the only way that a small market team like the Oakland A\u2019s can compete with the deep pockets of the New York Yankees and other large market teams (the \u2018unfair game\u2019 mentioned in the book\u2019s subtitle). However, to repeat, I find the emphasis on this approach to result in a game that is much less fun to watch. ...more I read the book and then immediately watched the movie, and I can confirm that (once again) the book is better than its silver screen counterpart, even when its written by the legendary Aaron Sorkin. A little about why this book was important to me personally. I am not a baseball fan, but I do work in professional sports, and specifically deal with analytics to now measure things which used to be very hand-wavvy. This book can actually be a nail-biter at times. Don't get me wrong, it's still a lot I read the book and then immediately watched the movie, and I can confirm that (once again) the book is better than its silver screen counterpart, even when its written by the legendary Aaron Sorkin. A little about why this book was important to me personally. I am not a baseball fan, but I do work in professional sports, and specifically deal with analytics to now measure things which used to be very hand-wavvy. This book can actually be a nail-biter at times. Don't get me wrong, it's still a lot of BASEBALL! and SPORTS! for a noob like me, but it's not too hard to power through. Solid insights about the industry, change, and having new perspectives on long-held beliefs. The only downside of this book was that the flow was illogical and disjointed. It was more a series of short chapters than a cohesive story. I'm not really sure who I would recommend this book to. If you like sports, sure, but I like how it focussed on the business of baseball. I don't know. It had come up in conversation with a friend and I had to read it ASAP, which I did. It was one of those impulsive reads because I was in the perfect mood for it. ...more Moneyball is a book that shook the world of professional baseball, but not necessarily in the way it should have. Let me explain... Moneyball is framed around the story of Billy Beane, a hot prospect who never panned out in the majors, who became general manager of the Oakland A's in 1997. Since that time, the A's, while consistently having one of the lowest payrolls in baseball, have been one of the best teams in the game. How is this possible? The book details how Beane and a few trusted associ Moneyball is a book that shook the world of professional baseball, but not necessarily in the way it should have. Let me explain... Moneyball is framed around the story of Billy Beane, a hot prospect who never panned out in the majors, who became general manager of the Oakland A's in 1997. Since that time, the A's, while consistently having one of the lowest payrolls in baseball, have been one of the best teams in the game. How is this possible? The book details how Beane and a few trusted associates began looking at the game in a different way. Instead of trusting scouting intuition and traditional baseball thinking, the A's began focusing on particular assets of players that were being undervalued by other teams. In this way, they were able to build winning teams using players that were overlooked or discarded by wealthier or less skilled organizations. While straightforward statistical analysis is interesting enough to me (see my review of Baseball Between The Numbers), where Moneyball shines is it's more detailed investigations into the development of statistical analysis in baseball, and some of the individual players who made up the A's successful 2002 squad. It is these investigations that give the Beane storyline depth and character, and add credence to the statistical analysis strategies the A's employed. I also appreciated the way Lewis outlines the response FROM the baseball community to the release of Moneyball, which is included in the later paperback edition. This even more firmly establishes the view that most baseball organizations are wasteful and subjective in their approach to analyzing the game they spend hundreds of millions to play. However, Moneyball also explains how teams such as the Toronto Blue Jays and, more impressively due to their two World Series wins in 3 years, Boston Red Sox have hired statistically-minded and data-crunching GM's to run their organizations - showing that the future will perhaps indeed have on base and slugging percantage be our primary focus rather than batting average and RBIs. Not if Joe Morgan has anything to do with it, though. ...more A couple cons: The writing\u2019s a little heavy-handed in places, which might just be a hazard of writing about baseball. Ex: \u201cThe batter\u2019s box was a cage designed to crush his spirit.\u201d Plus, as a poet, I always feel guilty reading books like this when I could/should be reading Proust or Shakespeare\u2026 But: Overall, I really enjoyed Moneyball , and I\u2019m glad I read it. Even though it\u2019s focused on the emergence of new baseball-thinking, Moneyball seems much more comprehensive, and much more narrative than A couple cons: The writing\u2019s a little heavy-handed in places, which might just be a hazard of writing about baseball. Ex: \u201cThe batter\u2019s box was a cage designed to crush his spirit.\u201d Plus, as a poet, I always feel guilty reading books like this when I could/should be reading Proust or Shakespeare\u2026 But: Overall, I really enjoyed Moneyball , and I\u2019m glad I read it. Even though it\u2019s focused on the emergence of new baseball-thinking, Moneyball seems much more comprehensive, and much more narrative than I expected. Essentially, Lewis tells the story of a new way of thinking about baseball. Bill James, this smartypants non-athletic geek, challenges the traditional way of thinking about baseball, subverting \u201cthe foolishness of many conventional baseball strategies.\u201d With the most pitiful bank account in the AL West, Oakland A\u2019s listen to James, apply his theories, and improve exponentially. \u201cConventional baseball strategies\u201d includes such nonsense as: discouraging plate discipline, encouraging recklessness, and pooh-poohing walks ( I\u2019m still shocked to know that drawing walks used to be, and sometimes still is, considered a failed at-bat). Anyway, James, The A\u2019s, and now the Red Sox, operate\u2014thrive\u2014by challenging conventional thinking and looking for ways to locate and manipulate inefficiencies in the baseball market. They rely on stuff like logic and math to evaluate performance, rather than the good-ole\u2019 traditional scouting system (drafting/evaluation based on non-quantifiable qualities like hunches, scout observation, the player\u2019s \u201cpresence\u201d). Although there\u2019s still some problems about what this actually means and how to implement or manipulate stats, it\u2019s clear to me that math and logic beats out chutzpah. Things about Moneyball I particularly enjoyed, and think you will too: --Anytime Lewis discusses the language of baseball. (BTW, for an awesome book about baseball language and signs, read Dickson\u2019s The Hidden Language of Baseball ). --Issues of the value of and tensions between emotional and intellectual intelligence, or lack thereof, in baseball\u2014Lewis tell of scouts ranking a player with \u201cpersonal problems,\u201d such as psychological issues and jail records on the same plane as a player who\u2019s \u201ctoo smart\u201d(!). Then he writes: \u201cPhysical gifts required to play pro ball were\u2026less extraordinary than the mental ones. Only a psychological freak could approach a 100mph fastball aimed not all that far from his head without total confidence.\u201d (I like thinking about this when I watch games now.) --Even though Billy Beane\u2019s sort of the *star* of the story, I found Bill James\u2019s, Chad Bradford\u2019s and Scott Hatteberg\u2019s stories especially, surprisingly, endearing. --Challenges to unchecked tradition, which basically run through the whole book. This includes questioning insider baseball journalists, talking heads, Bud Selig, Joe Morgan & co. What can I say?\u2014-Selig & Morgan might not actually care about Lewis\u2019s jabs at them...but reading them does kinda fill me with glee. ...more Really enjoyed this, partly because reading a baseball book in October when your team is in the playoffs gives you a great high and partly because I was surprisingly and honestly fascinated by the science of sabermetrics. Science and math have never been my strong points, but like Jurassic Park or The Martian, I was nevertheless intrigued. Coupled with the handful of recognizable players scattered through the book, I had a good time with this one. I also remember seeing the film a few years ago; Really enjoyed this, partly because reading a baseball book in October when your team is in the playoffs gives you a great high and partly because I was surprisingly and honestly fascinated by the science of sabermetrics. Science and math have never been my strong points, but like Jurassic Park or The Martian, I was nevertheless intrigued. Coupled with the handful of recognizable players scattered through the book, I had a good time with this one. I also remember seeing the film a few years ago; gotta watch it again. It's not nearly as accurate to the book as it should be, but that's an adaptation for you. October 2016 Baseball Book Club group read ...more I fucking hate watching sports. Hate it. Then how is it that this book, about applying pertinent statistical analyis to creating baseball teams and playing basesball, so captivated me? It's a testament to a) the skill of the author, Michael Lewis, but also b) the unequivocal appeal of the underlying story: how hard it is to change the status quo (and how one can succeed despite that) and the man Lewis profiles, Billy Beane. A fantastic narrative for fans of spectator sports or folks like me who'd I fucking hate watching sports. Hate it. Then how is it that this book, about applying pertinent statistical analyis to creating baseball teams and playing basesball, so captivated me? It's a testament to a) the skill of the author, Michael Lewis, but also b) the unequivocal appeal of the underlying story: how hard it is to change the status quo (and how one can succeed despite that) and the man Lewis profiles, Billy Beane. A fantastic narrative for fans of spectator sports or folks like me who'd rather clean a toilet bowl with his tongue than watch a ball game. ...more Boy did I read Michael Lewis' Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game at the right time: January. (The off-season.) Over the last two years, I've made a real effort to learn about sports. Hockey? Not a problem. The NBA? A gossipy league, but I think it's more popular because of it. The NFL? Short but sweet. No matter how hard I try -- I'll score the game, I'll eat the peanuts, but I draw the line at chew -- I just cannot develop an interest in baseball. I recently talked to a former ESPN writ Boy did I read Michael Lewis' Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game at the right time: January. (The off-season.) Over the last two years, I've made a real effort to learn about sports. Hockey? Not a problem. The NBA? A gossipy league, but I think it's more popular because of it. The NFL? Short but sweet. No matter how hard I try -- I'll score the game, I'll eat the peanuts, but I draw the line at chew -- I just cannot develop an interest in baseball. I recently talked to a former ESPN writer, and he told me that football's popularity is often attributed to its TV friendly format. I can see what he means. When I watch a football game, there's a lot of action, the replays are good, and there are only a few games so it's hard to become bored with the season. Baseball strikes me as a radio friendly game, particularly the many sounds we think of when we think of baseball. Unfortunately, radio went out of style decades ago. So even after watching an entire season of baseball games, the first association that comes to mind when I think of baseball is this line from The Simpsons : \"And now there's a beach ball on the field. And the ball boys are discussing which one of them is going to go get.\" In Moneyball , Michael Lewis mostly ignores the game of baseball. Instead, he looks into why the Oakland Athletics, a team with the second smallest payroll in the league, was for a brief while able to compete with the New York Yankees. It turns out that Billy Beane, the A's general manager, decided to found his strategy on decisions that tend to lead to wins. Runs lead to wins; outs do not. For example, stealing second and sacrifice bunts tend to lead to outs. So don't do those things. Relying on Bill James' analysis, Beane ignores defense and invests in hitters that get on base because a high on-base percentage tends to correlate with a lot of wins. Because Beane has an idea of how to measure players that can lead to wins, he can find players that are undervalued. The best parts of Moneyball may be when Lewis explains the archaic thinking that is guiding the Major Leagues' managers. For example, a relief pitcher's value increases as he accumulates saves. But how often does the relief pitcher \"save\" the game? Rarely. Consequently, Beane realizes that he can buy cheap pitchers, plays them until they accumulate a lot of saves, and then sell them at a profit. It's not that the other teams don't have access to the same statistics as Beane. It's just that they don't seem to care. Lewis explains that there are outsiders and insiders, and the insiders want nothing to do with the horn-rimmed glasses wearing, ivy league educated, statistic gathering nerds that point out that teams can win more games paying less if they pay attention to these few undervalued skills that have been tied to wins. What makes Moneyball work is that its central figure, Billy Beane, is actually an insider. He had the \"good face,\" and he looked good in a baseball uniform. He should have been big. He had a ticket to a free education at Stanford, but he traded that in to become a Met. Beane ended up leaving the game to become an advance scout. Beane seems to have a vendetta against the traditional, \"go with your gut\" decision making that guides the league and, arguably, ruined his life. Watching him outwit other managers because he is willing to consider non-traditional approaches to the game is real joy, and Lewis does a fantastic job in these sequences. There are moments that don't work so well. For example, Lewis is happy to praise Beane, which is fine. However, after writing an entire book about how every aspect of baseball can be broken down into statistical likelihoods, he then explains Oakland's failure to make it out of the first round of the playoffs is that the playoffs are a \"crapshoot.\" We could argue that an NFL playoff game is a crapshoot, but baseball teams are eliminated in a series. Although there's little data to gain from a single series, there are many playoff series to study. Lewis and Beane want to embrace moneyball, even though it fails in the playoffs. Why they should accept Beane's claim that \"my shit doesn't work in the playoffs?\" Lewis also gives little attention to what happens when other teams do begin to realize the importance of on-base percentage. I've read on Marginal Revolution that the size of a team's payroll is a bigger predictor of success now than it was ten years ago. That may have been inevitable, but it's not irrelevant. Still, I have to admit that for over 300 pages, Lewis had my interest. I once read that the best non-fiction books transcend their subject, and I think Lewis has produced that caliber of non-fiction here. It was almost as though baseball itself was interesting. But that may just have been because there it's been a long time since I watched a baseball game. After all, it is January. ...more If you're a baseball fan, you'll really appreciate this book. It is more or less a primer on the way the emphasis on statistics has come to prominence in many circles around the sport, and provides insight into some of the seemingly more arcane terms around the sport, such as OBP, OPS, VORP, etc. It's really quite valuable in that regard. It has also come to represent the term for the organizations that embrace this approach to scouting, although that assessment is not entirely accurate. The book If you're a baseball fan, you'll really appreciate this book. It is more or less a primer on the way the emphasis on statistics has come to prominence in many circles around the sport, and provides insight into some of the seemingly more arcane terms around the sport, such as OBP, OPS, VORP, etc. It's really quite valuable in that regard. It has also come to represent the term for the organizations that embrace this approach to scouting, although that assessment is not entirely accurate. The book focuses on Oakland Athletics' General Manager Billy Beane and the way he has been able to field a consistently competitive team despite a lack of resources available to other teams around the league. It just so happens that the approach he used (valuing On-Base Percentage over traditional means of measuring a player's worth, drafting lower ceiling college players as opposed high school players with more upside but also more risk, etc.) was not being employed by other teams. In other words, Beane's approach is to find what is undervalued around the league and exploit that to the benefit of his ballclub. At the time of this book's publishing, that entailed the methods described above. However, these days that is not necessarily the case, yet the specific traits Beane looked for in players at that time has come to be known as the 'Moneyball' approach, whether that is appropriate or not (I lean towards 'not'). Many traditionalists (I'm looking at you Joe Morgan) dismiss the book and Beane's methods, but are erroneous to do so. It's an interesting read and should be required for any true baseball fan, if only to see what all the fuss is about. It's become bigger than it should be--it's no better or worse than some of Lewis's other profile-type books--but is a solid, interesting read. ...more I know next to nothing about baseball, and less than that about statistics, but this book about applying new statistical thinking in baseball to the selection of a winning team (the Oakland A's) was absolutely riveting reading for me. Michael Lewis is just that good. A wee bit all over the place and rambling but more than made up for by the fascinating subject matter. As a writer, Michael Lewis has that amazing ability to write about one thing but actually be writing about something else entirely. Sometimes it\u2019s meanings within meanings, and it often requires a deeper read between the lines. \u201cMoneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game\u201d is, ostensibly, about the economics of baseball, how baseball can be looked at as a financial microcosm of the real world: the wealth inequalities between major league teams and how rich teams tend to win many more games than As a writer, Michael Lewis has that amazing ability to write about one thing but actually be writing about something else entirely. Sometimes it\u2019s meanings within meanings, and it often requires a deeper read between the lines. \u201cMoneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game\u201d is, ostensibly, about the economics of baseball, how baseball can be looked at as a financial microcosm of the real world: the wealth inequalities between major league teams and how rich teams tend to win many more games than poor teams and why that is. Insofar as any book ever written about baseball is never actually about baseball, one can still enjoy \u201cMoneyball\u201d as a basic underdog story, and it has the distinction of being that rare literary beast of an underdog story: a true one. But it\u2019s even more than a metaphorical look at the unfairness of how our economic system works. Going deeper, it\u2019s actually about our 21st-century disinterest in and---more worrisome---inexplicable discouragement of innovative \u201cout-of-the-box\u201d thinking, perhaps because true \u201cout-of-the-box\u201d thinking has the perception of being counterintuitive and diametrically opposed to everything we\u2019ve been taught. In 2002, Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland A\u2019s, decided to do something so radical as to have the appearance of utter insanity. Rather than listen to his talent scouts---seasoned veterans of the sport and guys who could recognize real talent---in regards to picking players for the upcoming season roster, Beane chose to listen to his assistant Paul DePodesta, an economics graduate from Harvard with a laptop always at the ready. Beane\u2019s theory was this: picking players based on an outdated and somewhat mystifying and undefined je ne sais quoi of inherent talent was too subjective to be reliable, and, not only that, it simply didn\u2019t work. How did he know this? Beane was living proof that it didn\u2019t work. By all rights, according to the talent scouts, Beane should have been one of the sport\u2019s all-time best players ever. He hit all the markers: running, catching, hitting, throwing, looks. In 1980, fresh out of high school, he was signed by the New York Mets. Everyone knew, absolutely, that Beane was going to go places. Everyone, of course, except Beane. The truth was, Beane\u2019s heart wasn\u2019t in it. If any of the myriad of scouts had asked him what he really wanted to do---go to college, for one---his life may have been drastically different. Unfortunately, Beane\u2019s baseball career was a series of trades to teams who didn\u2019t know what to do with a decent player who didn\u2019t really want to be there. As General Manager, Beane decided in 2002 that doing it the old-fashioned way just wasn\u2019t cutting it. There had to be a better way. Enter DePodesta. Like Beane, DePodesta loved baseball but saw that the sport was growing stagnant and major changes needed to be made, even changes that might initially seem destructive but would, in the long term, be better overall for the sport. One of the changes was the way baseball statistics were being used. Basing their new philosophy on the writings of historian and statistician (and baseball lover) Bill James, Beane and DePodesta looked at the stats of the players in a way that most people didn\u2019t. Most of the stats that scouts looked at were irrelevant, and scouts often overlooked more important stats. In a nutshell, Beane and DePodesta were looking for a player to do one thing: ensure a win. The team that Beane/DePodesta picked looked, on the face of it, like a nightmare of rookies, has-beens, and never-wases. At one point, someone referred to the 2002 Oakland A\u2019s roster as \u201cthe island of misfit toys\u201d, and to most people it was an appropriate moniker. As the season opened, the Oakland A\u2019s lost every single game they played for the first two weeks. Then, something interesting started happening. They started winning games. It bumped their standing up from dead last in the league to, well, second to last. But it was something. Then, something even more interesting started to happen. They started winning more games, until, at one point, they had a 19 game winning streak that didn\u2019t appear to let up. Sadly, the A\u2019s lost in the postseason against the Minnesota Twins, and while their success to that point was something incredible, many of Beane\u2019s naysayers pointed to the postseason loss as an \u201cI told you so\u201d moment, negating everything Beane was trying to do. Clearly, he was a failure, and his ideas were hokum. Except, he wasn\u2019t, and they weren\u2019t. Since 2002, more teams have begun adopting the same philosophy and methods that Beane used for his team, to great success. Indeed, the Boston Red Sox (a team that offered Beane a $12.5 million salary to be general manager, an offer that he turned down) won the 2004 World Series utilizing the same metrics and philosophies pioneered by Beane. Clearly, many people in baseball were changing their minds about Beane\u2019s ideas: they weren\u2019t hokum. While Lewis\u2019s book may seem like it might be a dry look at numbers that won\u2019t interest anyone other than people who are die-hard baseball fans, it is anything but dry. Besides being beautifully written, Lewis never forgets the human element---the \u201cromantic\u201d side---of baseball in his characterizations of an ensemble cast of fascinating, flawed, and idiosyncratic people. He also knows what makes for an exciting baseball underdog story, ending the book with the climactic tension-filled now-famous early-September game against the Kansas City Royals, where the A\u2019s, starting off with an 11-0 lead, slowly began to lose the lead until the final inning, a score of 11-11. This was the game that would have either broken their 19-game winning streak or continued on to a 20-game streak. It was a nail-biter of a game, and Lewis captures it brilliantly on the page. Beneath all the baseball and the economic theory, though, Lewis is telling another story about the American people, one that isn\u2019t very pretty. According to Lewis, people like Beane---idea people, outliers with highly innovative new ways of doing things---must fight their way past almost-unstoppable barriers of ignorance, anti-intellectalism, and traditionalism. Sometimes people like Beane never get heard. For every Beane, Steve Jobs, or Bernie Sanders, there are countless millions who may have had revolutionary ways of changing health care, education, the economy, the environment, etc. who simply gave up trying. There is the secret tragedy that hides behind the upbeat and optimistic pages of \u201cMoneyball\u201d. It is a tragedy, I think, that Lewis hopes to avert in the future by telling Beane\u2019s amazing story. ...more Billy Beane raises his right hand up- \u201cThere are rich teams, there are poor teams, there is 50 feet of crap and then there is US.\u201d reaches the table level. Thirty pages into book I knew this book is going to be completely different from movie version only time to decide if it\u2019s engaging or uncompelling. So I thought I would find a way to supply my patience fuel for another thirty pages or so, then I shall confidently decide on quitting or no because after all, this was not the story I fell in l Billy Beane raises his right hand up- \u201cThere are rich teams, there are poor teams, there is 50 feet of crap and then there is US.\u201d reaches the table level. Thirty pages into book I knew this book is going to be completely different from movie version only time to decide if it\u2019s engaging or uncompelling. So I thought I would find a way to supply my patience fuel for another thirty pages or so, then I shall confidently decide on quitting or no because after all, this was not the story I fell in love with after watching the movie. Few parts are soothingly inspiring, otherwise I daresay I struggled with those first 50 odd pages, which move back and forth between Billy Bean\u2019s childhood & his disastrous Baseball career, in short, time what he did with before joining as general manager of Oakland A\u2019s, which movie version never cared to mention. I\u2019m not complaining either. Adding to this, somewhere in the midway, author takes a great leap into the life & writing career of revolutionary Bill James, only to fill pages about baseball statistics (on base percentage, slugging percentage), saber metrics etc., even before we get to main story. But, having said that, it\u2019s not completely irrelevant either, only less of a joy ride. Next 150pages is where book\u2019s real intentions lie at. Sometimes, I bet you can sense author\u2019s brutal honesty in depiction and his gutsy approach in narration. Having given an insight into Billy\u2019s & his assistant Paul\u2019s back stories in first 50 pages he sincerely tries to find answers in the rest, to a very sincere question which has been puzzling whole of the baseball community for years How in the world one of the poorest teams in Baseball, Oakland A\u2019s, win so many games?, but beauty of the book is he doesn't try to answer this in pure baseball lingo but with human emotion, connecting all the dots between Billy Beane, Paul, scouts, managers, players and everyone else involved in this ball game, very interestingly. As for writing I agree it\u2019s sometimes overwhelming with author trying to fill pages and pages with statistics\u2019 jargon only to prove how important it is to understand the orthodox methods and again to prove them wrong. And sometimes, it also feels like, in order to establish a small relation between a random player and Billy author starts off into a way too long back say from player\u2019s childhood days, his influences, or his playing style etc., which seems out of the track a bit. May be a regular baseball fan finds it interesting/exciting. besides that rest of all is in perfect place and surprisingly, there's nothing much to complain about too. As for differences from movie version, movie focuses only on these two stubborn guys Billy Beane and his assistant Paul who risked everything to enjoy their experimentation to reinvent a whole new system by questioning the existing one, and carve out a perfect team out of $40 million which is just one third of what rich teams spend on an average wherein book, it also throws light on players\u2019 necessary transformation some big names roll here , psychology of his colleagues & players involved in or against Oakland A\u2019s winnings and many more off the record categorized incidents. One thing I liked about book in particular was Oakland A\u2019s winning or their rewriting history was not as dramatic as they made me believe in the movie. Finally, if you are a sports fanatic, or a serious baseball follower or someone who has an appetite for underdog stories (like me) this is a perfect book for you. I installed the game in my phone since I spent too much time playing baseball in my TV video game as a kid. Other than this I have no other premium knowledge on baseball or whatsoever, but I still enjoyed rather inspired by this book. Easily 4/5 ...more Well, its kind of about baseball. Its more really about Billy Beane and how terrific a GM he is and, as an extra bonus, he is so much like the swell guys on Wall Street who have it all figured out. Well kinda. You see, the Oakland Athletics were/are a \"poor\" ballclub. They do not have the cash of teams like the Yankees or Red Sox so they can not afford much in the way of scouting and even if they do scout they do not have the money to sign the best players (actually I mean the players the rich t Well, its kind of about baseball. Its more really about Billy Beane and how terrific a GM he is and, as an extra bonus, he is so much like the swell guys on Wall Street who have it all figured out. Well kinda. You see, the Oakland Athletics were/are a \"poor\" ballclub. They do not have the cash of teams like the Yankees or Red Sox so they can not afford much in the way of scouting and even if they do scout they do not have the money to sign the best players (actually I mean the players the rich team want, so forget the word \"best\")... free agents or anyone else. So they had to come up with something different. They did. They said they would use \"stats\" and look at things other teams did not look at... like On Base Percentage... and sign those guys. This did two things. First, it cut the expense of scouting (you do not need to pay so many real people to go see real players), but then they could not afford much of this anyway. Second, they could hire someone to pour over numbers on a PC and \"Voila!\" they got scouting! And its cheaper!! OK, it worked. Kinda. That is until the rich ballclubs hired stat guys with PCs too. The Red Sox hired the best stat guys around. Guys who are famous in the stat world. Guys the Oakland team could not afford. The rich teams said \"If it works for Oakland, we will really throw a ton of money at it and it will work EVEN BETTER for us!!\" (It really didn't but that's another story.) See, baseball is a business that works like this: If you have good success with something, then everyone else copies it and your good success isn't good any more on account of now everyone is doing it and the rich clubs do it better than you do on account of they have all the money. They still sign the \"best\" players because like anyone the \"best\" players want as much money as possible for being the \"best\" players. (This is not a new thing either... goes back to 1901 at least). Every so often a poor or losing club will come up with a new idea because they want to win and the old ideas are not working or just cost too much. Owning minor league teams, signing players from the Dominican Republic or some other country, guys who hit tons of homers, guys who stole lots of bases, guys who get lots of walks... these were all new ideas at one time and once a team has good success, it becomes a \"Revolutionary Idea!! That Changes The Game!!\" because everyone else follows and does it too, figuring that is the quickest road to good success. Then those new ideas just become the way everyone does it and the poor or losing clubs need to come up with another new, revolutionary idea that changes the game. Now, to the book. Its OK, but I think the author does not know much about ballclubs and rather too much about Wall Street. Beane's idea worked for a time but was not all that revolutionary or fantabulous to begin with. The stat stuff has been around for a long time for basic scouting and player contract negotiations.... like since at least 1908, probably even before that but I can not remember right now. That Beane concentrated on OBP (On Base Percentage) ain't a particularly new idea either (may I introduce you to John McGraw and Connie Mack). Using PC's and stats has been around in ballclubs since the 80's. I do not really grasp what this author thought was so great. Its just a guy running a poor ballclub that needs to come up with a new idea. For Bill Veeck it was a midget, the Yankees got Babe Ruth, Whitey Herzog got speedy guys... there's always a new idea. Some work, some work for a while and some don't work at all. An OK read, but no news here. Maybe his Wall Street books are better. This one was not so good. ...more I found this book extremely interesting, especially since I didn't read it until eight years after it came out, meaning I knew how all the draft picks and other players mentioned in the book panned out (a topic on which a good deal has now been written). Only my rule of always reading the book before seeing the movie prompted me pick it up now, a decision I don't regret. The book had some interesting tidbits I wasn't aware of, such as where the term sabremetrics came from (\"The name derives from I found this book extremely interesting, especially since I didn't read it until eight years after it came out, meaning I knew how all the draft picks and other players mentioned in the book panned out (a topic on which a good deal has now been written). Only my rule of always reading the book before seeing the movie prompted me pick it up now, a decision I don't regret. The book had some interesting tidbits I wasn't aware of, such as where the term sabremetrics came from (\"The name derives from SABR, the acronym of the Society for American Baseball Research\") and the origin story for Rotisserie Baseball (\"1980 a group of friends, led by Sports Illustrated writer Dan Okrent, met at La Rotisserie Fran\u00e7aise, a restaurant in Manhattan, and created what became known, to the confusion of a nation, as Rotisserie Baseball\"). It also had some great quotes on the mindset of Billy Beane (\"He'd flirted with the idea of firing all the scouts and just drafting the kids straight from Paul's laptop\") and the team he managed (\"The Oakland A's are baseball's answer to the Island of Misfit Toys\"). The book probably could have been a bit shorter -- I could have done with a bit less on Beane's backstory as a failed player and a lot less of Chad Bradford's life story -- but overall Moneyball was a great read that should be mandatory for any serious baseball fan. ...more To most people, this book is about stats, how some stats are inadequate, and moreover, how important stats are ignored. But that's not why I like this book. The real story for me is how people with fewer means succeed. It is more than an undercurrent in the book, and it is sadly ignored by most readers. The Oakland A's took baseball's detritus--fat guys, skinny guys, short guys--and composed championship-caliber teams with them. Moneyball to me isn't about the stats, it's about making the best o To most people, this book is about stats, how some stats are inadequate, and moreover, how important stats are ignored. But that's not why I like this book. The real story for me is how people with fewer means succeed. It is more than an undercurrent in the book, and it is sadly ignored by most readers. The Oakland A's took baseball's detritus--fat guys, skinny guys, short guys--and composed championship-caliber teams with them. Moneyball to me isn't about the stats, it's about making the best of what you have. Rather than evaluating players on their weight, height, and pedigree, some readers want to clothe them instead in their OPS+, DIPS, and VORP. Yes I agree, that's closer to whatever the ideal valuations are, and it's fascinating. But the coolness of these new numbers overlooks the true content of the book. The real story is about baseball's castoffs. They're ignored by scouts and teams, sent to the outlands and forgotten. These small town boys were taught how to pitch by their preachers, signed contracts after losing the ability to grip a ball, or nearly went undrafted because everyone else said they were too fat and slow. We see these nobodies get a chance, and those stories cover a significant portion of the content. I know the stats and they inspire my intellect. But reading about these men in Moneyball , it tugs at the very crux of my hopes as a common man. ...more If you haven't already seen the movie, you ought to see the movie. And after you have seen the movie, you ought to read the book. I loved the film adaptation, it adds magic and melancholy to the story. This book stands out to me not because it's a good underdog story (though it is a very good underdog story), and not because it's a good non-fiction story (and it is a very good non-fiction story), but because of the symbolic power and universality of its core message: there is unseen value in eve If you haven't already seen the movie, you ought to see the movie. And after you have seen the movie, you ought to read the book. I loved the film adaptation, it adds magic and melancholy to the story. This book stands out to me not because it's a good underdog story (though it is a very good underdog story), and not because it's a good non-fiction story (and it is a very good non-fiction story), but because of the symbolic power and universality of its core message: there is unseen value in every human being. People are overlooked and undervalued because of all kinds of perceived flaws such as age, appearance, personality, and other superficial attributes. What makes Billly Beane and Paul DePodesta such great heroes in this story is how they see past the superficiality and bring out the value of people like Chad Bradford, Scott Hatteberg, Jeremy Brown and Kevin Youkilis. The chapter on Hatteberg alone made the $5 Kindle Book worth the money I spent. The epilogue on the pudgy Jeremy Brown is touching, especially the way it's depicted at the end of the film: he doesn't realize that he has just hit a home run. My recommendation comes with the condition that you must be willing to tolerate baseball clubhouse language. I was too into the story to really notice, but the semi-frequent use of the f-word may be the only thing some people see if they read this. They won't know what they're missing. ...more So here's the thing: before I started reading, this book had everything going against it for me. Despite my love of sports, I don't like baseball (at all) and I don't watch it. I know the basics of the game but otherwise, really don't know anything about the game and only recognize the names of really famous players. I don't like math or statistics (which are a big part of baseball and in a small way, this book) and I don't generally love nonfiction, though I do read it, it's not more than a cou So here's the thing: before I started reading, this book had everything going against it for me. Despite my love of sports, I don't like baseball (at all) and I don't watch it. I know the basics of the game but otherwise, really don't know anything about the game and only recognize the names of really famous players. I don't like math or statistics (which are a big part of baseball and in a small way, this book) and I don't generally love nonfiction, though I do read it, it's not more than a couple books a year. But several people had talked about this book, and how much they enjoyed it, not just because of the story but the broader business ideas that could be taken from it. Truthfully, I didn't really care a lot about that either (I guess I'm just not big on \"bettering\" myself :P ) but I downloaded the sample randomly one day, out of curiousity. I didn't open the sample right away but waited until a day when I was looking for something random to read, and opened this one without any conscious reason. And I was hooked. The author, Michael Lewis, is an excellent and riveting storyteller. He has the amazing talent of taking what should have been a story I had no interest in, and made it compelling. I read this book nonstop for two days (nonstop as in, I didn't read anything else in between, as I generally do when I'm reading nonfiction. A nonfic book usually takes me weeks or months to finish). Truthfully, while I thought some of the takeaways that could be applied to other business were interesting, I didn't read it for inspiration, nor did I particularly find any. But I did think the history that Michael Lewis was really fascinating, and his ability to make this a story of human interest and draw the reader in is what makes this such a great read. Also, I have to say, the epilogue (which is obvious was not in the original book but was later added to a new edition) was almost my favorite. It's like the best response to reviewers and people who hated the book without even reading it. I highly recommend this book for anyone who likes baseball, nonfiction, or is just looking for a great human-interest story that drags you along for the ride. ...more I've always found baseball fascinating, but have rarely admitted it publicly. That's because the revelation always seemed to be followed by someone trying to engage me in a conversation about the game. And that conversation would always, always end up revolving around statistics I neither cared about nor cared to learn. Not because Math Is Haaaaaard, but because I always had a niggling suspicion that baseball-nerd numbers really weren't that important. Lewis proved me half right; some of the num I've always found baseball fascinating, but have rarely admitted it publicly. That's because the revelation always seemed to be followed by someone trying to engage me in a conversation about the game. And that conversation would always, always end up revolving around statistics I neither cared about nor cared to learn. Not because Math Is Haaaaaard, but because I always had a niggling suspicion that baseball-nerd numbers really weren't that important. Lewis proved me half right; some of the numbers formerly used to make judgments about the quality of a player or team *weren't* that important -- but there were other, lesser known numbers that *could* tell you something. And it was Oakland A's general manager Billy Beane who used the \"new\" numbers to build a 2002 team that managed to rack up wins without a Yankees-style payroll. Moneyball is a captivating look at just how Beane did it. So why a 4 -- really, a 3.5 -- instead of 5? For all his smarts and talents as a writer, my God, is Lewis ever a repeat-o-monster. He drums in a point over and over like no other. This was a more serious problem in The New New Thing, which fell into murky unreadability every time Lewis reminded us how smart! and rich! Jim Clark was (you know, every other page or so). I get it, Lewis: Billy Beane's a maverick, and you're crazy impressed with him. But that level of overkill put just the slightest damper on what was otherwise enjoyable and instructive. ...more Lewis is a brilliant writer, and I give credit where credit is due: He sketches a memorable portrait of Billy Beane, maestro of the Oakland A's, and of his ideas and approach. My three main problems with the book are that it leaves people with the impression that more had changed than it really had; looking for guys others had missed who had a knack for drawing walks and getting on base was a long-standing passion of, for example, Sandy Alderson, Beane's mentor, here given short-shrift; two, it Lewis is a brilliant writer, and I give credit where credit is due: He sketches a memorable portrait of Billy Beane, maestro of the Oakland A's, and of his ideas and approach. My three main problems with the book are that it leaves people with the impression that more had changed than it really had; looking for guys others had missed who had a knack for drawing walks and getting on base was a long-standing passion of, for example, Sandy Alderson, Beane's mentor, here given short-shrift; two, it exalts the art of winning regular-season games on a shoestring without ever confronting the painful reality that winning it all, a World Series, was not necessarily any more likely using this method; and three, it resorts to flat-out self-caricature in pushing the idea that in baseball the field manager (whether Joe Torre or Tony La Russa or Art Howe) does not matter at all, since the GM is the auteur of the show, and was just plain mean in casting Howe as an absolute dunce. ...more This is one of those rare instances when the movie was a lot better than the book. There's so much math and statistics that seem to go on and on for several chapters that tend to bore the reader to death if they're not a big fan of baseball or a mathematical genius. But the author does an adequate job of making his point and is engaging. It's a problem you think you need to explain your self ..DON'T ...TO ANYONE At the risk of sounding cliche, Michael Lewis hit this one out of the park. I am not a huge follower of baseball - don't get me wrong, I like it, especially when I can watch it in person - but baseball is not something that translates to a small screen easily and I have no big league teams nearby (although I do love seeing the minor league Nashville Sounds just down the road). Suffice it to say that I was probably not in the target audience for this book. Lewis hits just the right tone with Mone At the risk of sounding cliche, Michael Lewis hit this one out of the park. I am not a huge follower of baseball - don't get me wrong, I like it, especially when I can watch it in person - but baseball is not something that translates to a small screen easily and I have no big league teams nearby (although I do love seeing the minor league Nashville Sounds just down the road). Suffice it to say that I was probably not in the target audience for this book. Lewis hits just the right tone with Moneyball - there's a fascinating GM, an interesting statistical problem, and some less-than-traditional ball players. The book largely follows Billy Beane (played in the movie by Brad Pitt) - and his story is interesting. He was a superb athlete when he is drafted out of high school and decides to sign with the Mets instead of going to Stanford. He is not the great ballplayer that he was expected to be - due to a combination of factors including a huge temper - and eventually moves to baseball management. The Oakland A's were not funded as well as most of the teams in professional baseball. So when Beane takes over as general manager, he looks for other ways to succeed. He finds a Harvard graduate who's a whiz at statistics and changes the way the A's recruit and trade players. The statistics themselves are pretty interesting - they were developed by a guy named Bill James on his off time who just wanted a better way to evaluate the players. James became almost a cult figure when fantasy baseball hit the scene and Billy Beane and Paul DePodesta use his stats to build one of the most efficient teams ever - in 2002 they were the best in their league with the lowest payroll. This rocked the traditional assumption that teams needed to recruit the star athletes out of high school. They defied the conventional wisdom that stealing bases and sacrifice bunts were needed to win games. They looked beyond the surface and dug into the meat of what wins. Finally, there are these less than traditional ballplayers - there's the overweight college catcher and powerhouse hitter from Alabama who was expected to go in the 15th round, but is signed by Beane in the 1st round to everyone's amazement including his own; there's a sidearm pitcher who's almost impossible to hit who's discounted by most because he doesn't fit the mold, his ball is too slow; and a catcher who is remolded into a first baseman. Beane sees beyond the surface to the true jewels and while he's not revolutionized baseball, there are plenty who've taken notice. This book was fun for so many reasons - I liked the geeky statistical challenges. I liked the nontraditional approach to building a team and the stunning results in the 2002 season. But mostly I loved the characters - these guys were not the superstars of the game when drafted, they just loved to play. Give me the nice guy from Mississippi who learned to pitch from his dad (who'd had a stroke and was not expected to even walk again, much less throw with his son). Give me the slightly chubby guy from Alabama who is stunned to find out that he's been drafted in the first round. These are the underdogs, the Everyman that we all like to cheer for and see succeed - because in them there's hope that someday maybe we'll succeed at our passion. Quotes to remember: Kelly Heath had played second base in the Royals organization, and had exactly one at bat, in 1982, after the Royals' regular second baseman, Frank White, decided in the middle of a game that his hemorrhoids were bothering him. As one of the other scouts put it, Kelly was the only player in history whose entire big league career was made possible by a single asshole. The inability to envision a certain kind of person doing a certain kind of thing because you've never seen someone who looks like him do it before is not just a vice. It's a luxury. What begins as a failure of imagination ends as a market inefficiency: when you rule out an entire class of people from doing a job simply by their appearance, you are less likely to find the best person for the job. It's looking at process rather than outcomes...Too many people make decision based on outcomes rather than process. The pleasure of rooting for Goliath is that you can expect to win. The pleasure of rooting for David is that, while you don't know what to expect, you stand at least a chance of being inspired. From Bill James' 1983 Abstract , the laws of competitive balance (when I read these I thought this man was baseball's Sun-Tzu): There exists in the world a negative momentum which acts constantly to reduce the differences between strong teams and weak teams, teams which are ahead and teams which are behind, or good players and poor players. The corollaries are: 1. Every form of strength covers one weakness and creates another, and therefore every form of strength is also a form of weakness, and every weakness a strength. 2. The balance of strategies always favors the team which is behind. 3. Psychology tends to pull the winners down and push the losers upwards. ...more<---C>Michael   Lewis</---C>", "Title": "Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game"},
