{"Comments": "I think there's a big difference between literature and fiction, and this book is a perfect example - as is obvious from the number of negative reviews posted on this website! Some books can be read purely for their entertainment value. We like reading them because the plots and settings and characters capture our interest.<---F> That's what fiction does</---F>. But some books provide an additional dimension for readers who are willing to put a little more time and thought into what they are reading and who I think there's a big difference between literature and fiction, and this book is a perfect example - as is obvious from the number of negative reviews posted on this website! Some books can be read purely for their entertainment value. We like reading them because the plots and settings and characters capture our interest. That's what fiction does. But some books provide an additional dimension for readers who are willing to put a little more time and thought into what they are reading and who enjoy digging a little deeper below the plot line to think about the things that motivate the characters to behave the way they do. Those of us who who are looking for more than plot and characterization in a good book, tend to be intrigued by the way authors use language and amazingly enough we actually enjoy discovering new words even though it means looking them up in a dictionary!! Banville's writing is going to be lost on a lot of readers because it's much more than a work of fiction. But for the rest of us, it's a great example of why we love to read in the first place....it's because we love to see our language used so beautifully in the hands of a writer who has such deep insights into some of the great themes that good literature has always dealt with. This is one of those books. It's a profound reflection on love,loss,regret, and the role memory plays in the grieving process. Those who love to read because they enjoy thinking about the insights to be found in books that are beautifully written will most likely love this book. Obviously not everyone reads for that reason, which is fine for them....but for the rest of us it's easy to see why Banville is considered such a fine writer. ...more Night,<---M> and everything so quiet</---M>, as if there were no one, not even myself. I cannot hear the sea, which on other nights rumbles and growls, now near grating, now afar and faint. I do not want to be alone like this. Why have you not come back to haunt me? Is the least I would have expected of you. Why this silence day after day, night after interminable night? It is like a fog, this silence of yours. What is <---A>John Banville</---A> \u2019s <+++>The Sea</+++> all about? An infinite weave of contemplative and melancholic fee Night, and everything so quiet, as if there were no one, not even myself. I cannot hear the sea, which on other nights rumbles and growls, now near grating, now afar and faint. I do not want to be alone like this. Why have you not come back to haunt me? Is the least I would have expected of you. Why this silence day after day, night after interminable night? It is like a fog, this silence of yours. What is John Banville \u2019s <+++>The Sea</+++> all about? An infinite weave of contemplative and melancholic feelings of a man lost in his sufferings. It is about the impossibility of hope; the harshness of loss, and the inescapability of pain. A convulsive probe into the past, it revisits times gone by that sets it all adrift. Constant guilt for what could not have been changed, accounts of resentments, and the restraints and combat of a man to the intimacy of grief. All coupled with constant images and metaphors of a turbulent and immeasurable sea. There were things of course the boy that I was then would not have allowed himself to foresee, in his eager anticipations, even if he had been able. Loss, grief, the sombre days and the sleepless nights, such surprises tend not to register on the prophetic imagination's photographic plate. The story is narrated by Max, a retired art critic, who is mourning the death of his wife, Anna, and now living at The Cedars, which he remembers from his youth. Whether recalling those days when he lived with his family in more modest surroundings and gawked eagerly into the house and its inhabitants, the Graces. John Banville impresses with his beautiful, splendid and brittle writing. His protagonist Max is governed by his whims, which twists and weakens before its sorrowfulness, his mourning, the sutures of old dislikes, and the trace of his fossilized tears. These days I must take the world in small and carefully measured doses, it is a sort of homeopathic cure I am undergoing, though I am not certain what this cure is meant to mend. Perhaps I am learning to live among the living again. Practising, I mean. But no, that is not it. Being here is just a way of not being anywhere. Among meditations on losses and presages of death, we encounter once in a while a specter of happiness, might we dream of hope? Possibly this is too far to imagine, but even Banville protagonist\u2019s wanderings remember to point to the existence of peace if not happiness. Like the sun that steals a chance to come through on an overcast and dark sky, with its rays reflecting alluringly in the tumultuous sea. How does Banville present us with a scene not so wistful, how can he, amidst so such melancholy, bring up moments of joy? His only escape is through remembrances of a long gone past: a past of friendship, a past with wisps of seduction, forgetting the losses that followed for mere moments. Those moments invariably invoke the sea with its vastness and its depths, along with its mysterious personal allure. Still that day of license and illicit invitation was not done. As Mrs. Grace, stretched there on the grassy bank, continued softly snoring, a torpor descended on the rest of us in that little dell, the invisible net of lassitude that falls over a company when one of its number detaches and drops away into sleep. ... Suddenly she was the centre of the scene, the vanishing-point upon which everything converged, suddenly it was she for whom these patterns and these shades had been arranged with such meticulous artlessness: that white cloth on the polished glass, the leaning, blue-green tree, the frilled ferns, even those little clouds, trying to seem not to move, high up in the limitless marine sky. All is not darkness; the memories bring back those long ago days of lightness. Thus, there are furtive moments of carefree recollection that appear to console our protagonist: Happiness was different in childhood. It was so much a matter of simply of accumulation, of taking things - new experiences, new emotions - and applying them like so many polished tiles to what would someday be the marvelously finished pavilion of the self. And incredulity, that too was a large part of being happy, I mean that euphoric inability fully to believe one's simple luck. I have always loved the sea with its ever changing tides and undercurrents, and its massive waters always invoked sentiments of peace or turbulence in me; never of melancholy and sorrow. Thus, Banville through Max seems to view a different sea from mine. No matter what sea we contemplate: a lush tropical one or Max\u2019s frigid and bleak one, the differences persist. Could a more austere sea invoke the sentiments Max tells us in his narrative? No, I do not think it comes from the sea but from inside. And it seems frozen by the winds of gloom in Max\u2019s heart. However, there are rare moments of peace and hopefulness, even if short lived. And ultimately he returns to his sufferings and the loss that so ravaged him. We forgave each other for all that we were not. What more could be expected, in this vale of torments and tears? Do not look so worried, Anna said, I hated you, too, a little, we were human beings, after all. Yet for all that, I cannot rid myself of the convictions that we missed something, that I missed something, only I do not know what it might have been. Thus, Anna tried to liberate Max of his guilt. Yes, we are allowed to hate those we love; and if we can hate is solely because we loved. That\u2019s how human beings can form relationships, by being truthful to themselves. However, Max was not ready to give up on his guilt that still hangs on together with his memories of Anna. Still drowning in his grief, from his hard and recent loss, we read and feel for its inevitability, like the tide that stops for nothing, and Max unavoidable memories hurt and haunt him. His memories only escalate his sentiment of gloom and remorse. I have to confess that this was one of the scattered moments where I read more than the beauty of Banville well-chosen words; his suffering with the loss of his wife touched me deeply. I sat in the bay of the window and watched the day darken. Bare trees across the road were black against the last flares of the setting sun, and the rooks in a raucous flock were wheeling and dropping, settling disputatiously for the night. I was thinking of Anna. I make myself think of her, I do it as an exercise. She is lodged in me like a knife and yet I am beginning to forget her. However, Max not ready yet to let Anna go, calls for her in his immense sadness, like a sinking boat that is missing the saving grace of a gracious wind that picks up on the waves of forgetfulness, which would push him to a safe shore and acceptance. I said something, some fatuous thing such as Don't go, or Stay with me, but again she gave that impatient shake of the head, and tugged my hand to draw me closer. \"They are stopping the clocks,\" she said, the merest threat of a whisper, conspiratorial. \"I have stopped time.\" And she nodded, a solemn, knowing nod, and smiled, too, I would swear it was a smile. Alas, all Banville\u2019s lyrical and bittersweet chronicle left me with plenty of beautiful quotes. Yes, I was carried away by his lyricism and kept going between quotes. Banville mostly gives us poetry in prose. However, I felt Banville's eloquence and his gorgeously passionate way of phrasing what he wants to say somehow impacts adversely on his storytelling ability. I recently read Virginia Woolf\u2019s The Waves , and there her lyricism worked because that was what she aimed to do. There was no storyline, no plot and it worked perfectly. No so here, I felt Banville\u2019s characters suffered from the weight of his lyrical prose. I ended loving it for its poetry but not loving it so much for his characters. Yes, Max is not the kind of protagonist I appreciate. Yes, the themes are explored to the fullest. Yes, Banville tells his tale alluringly, with a delightful language that few writers can glue together. Yes, I loved the theme, it's profound reflections on love, loss, regret, and the role memory plays in the grieving process. His insights are certainly great literature. But it left me wanting more, wanting a protagonist I could fully comprehend and grasp. Perhaps it is not so terrible to be left wanting more, hence do not judge me harshly for my dissatisfaction. Nevertheless, highly recommended. ___ ...more \"And I, who timidly hate life, fear death with fascination.\" Livro do desassossego, Fernando Pessoa \u201cPerhaps all of life is no more than a long preparation for the leaving of it\u201d proclaims Max Morten, narrator and main character of The Sea , after his wife Anna passes away victim of a long and enduring illness. Drowning in the grief which comes with the vast and ruthless sea of loss, he decides to seclude himself in the little coastal village where he spent his summers as a boy. A flood of unavoidab \"And I, who timidly hate life, fear death with fascination.\" Livro do desassossego, Fernando Pessoa \u201cPerhaps all of life is no more than a long preparation for the leaving of it\u201d proclaims Max Morten, narrator and main character of The Sea , after his wife Anna passes away victim of a long and enduring illness. Drowning in the grief which comes with the vast and ruthless sea of loss, he decides to seclude himself in the little coastal village where he spent his summers as a boy. A flood of unavoidable memories charged with haunted emotion and digressive meditations recreate that dreamy atmosphere that only childhood can nurture. New found memories which serve to wash away his conflicting emotions between the impotence of witnessing life quietly fading away and the cruel complacency of ordinary things allowing death to happen indifferently. But as Max invades his frozen memories he awakens ghosts long gone though never forgotten and the unsettling and seductive Grace twins, his childhood friends, will become sharply delineated on the wall of his memory, prompting unintended recollections about the strangeness and dislocation of one\u2019s own existence and the immortal burden of being the survivor. \u201dYou are not even allowed to hate me a little, any more, like you used to\u201d says Anna to Max with a sad, knowing smile. Isn't it true that we can\u2019t help hating the ones we love the most? We are human beings after all. And the guilt and the anger and the violence which come after our beloved have been irrevocably usurped from us, leaving us alone with all that self-disgust, with no one to save us from ourselves, hating them, the gone, even more. Banville threads a complex pattern between the gratuitous dramas of memory, past traumas and an intolerable present which engages in eternal conflict with the enduring intensity of the natural world which, with all its ruthless beauty and nonchalance, mocks at our human insignificance. And it is precisely when we are devastated by this insurmountable, catastrophic truth that Banville's crafted poetry starts delivering rhythmic tides of controlled pleasure, dropping pearls of beauty , easing the sting of the meaningless words, holding us together, creating a new pregnant life full of wonder and possibilities. I\u2019m aware Banville's style might not appeal to every reader, he doesn't rush, he digresses languidly, teasing and eroding your perceptions relentlessly, his mortally serious ways can seem overdone, but I responded to his uncompromising tone, so graceful and precise. Poetry in prose. Memories may say nothing but they are never silent , pulling and pushing, futilely turned the wrong way, urging us to be drowned and get lost in them, never to return. But somehow these little vessels of sadness, these sinking boats we all are, sailing in muffled silence in this hollow sea of impotence and disregard, manage to catch the smooth rolling swells coming from the deeps only to be lifted and carried away towards the shore as if nothing had happened. And as our feet touch the ground we realize that our lives have been, in spite of everything, in spite of ourselves, acts of pure love and only for that, they are worth living. (\u2026) and it was as if I were walking into the sea. ...more Ah, the sea - especially the smell of the sea, a phrase as familiar as the idea that aromas have a visceral power to exhume memories we didn\u2019t know we had ever had and lost. Smells of all sorts permeate the pages of this book and waft up, creating a synaesthetic connection to people and places in Max\u2019s life. My second-hand paper book added a medley of vague aromas of its own. Not something to read on Kindle (though for me, nothing is). Scents This is an intensely sensual book, but not in the usual Ah, the sea - especially the smell of the sea, a phrase as familiar as the idea that aromas have a visceral power to exhume memories we didn\u2019t know we had ever had and lost. Smells of all sorts permeate the pages of this book and waft up, creating a synaesthetic connection to people and places in Max\u2019s life. My second-hand paper book added a medley of vague aromas of its own. Not something to read on Kindle (though for me, nothing is). Scents This is an intensely sensual book, but not in the usual sense. It\u2019s about the power of one of the senses, smell, in the context of bereaved reminiscence. Max frequently mentions the smell of things. Not all are pleasant, but they colour his memories in a profound way. Smell and taste are interdependent. Unlike the other senses, it\u2019s almost impossible to describe them except in comparison with other smells and tastes - hence wines with undertones of apricot, accents of peat, and aftertaste of daisies. I think it\u2019s also why it's so difficult to remember, let alone imagine smells at will. One's mind's eye and ear are so much more biddable. Even touch is easier to recall and describe. Banville prompted me to to try, though. Sit or lie somewhere comfortable, quiet, and dark. Touch is easy: start by noticing what you can actually feel: the curve of the chair, the fabric and seams of your clothes, the warmth of the sun on your skin. Then remember or imagine touches: the shrill blast of a strong salt sea breeze on your face, stroking the soft silky fur of a cat, the abrasion of warm, wet, sand between your toes. Now add sights and sounds: the view of the ocean and howl of the wind, the purring of the inscrutable black cat, the colour of the sand and the hiss of the waves coming down on it. You can see and hear and feel it all. But smell and taste? Much harder. Think of a favourite food ( siu mai ). You can see it, you can feel its texture, and hear the sound as you bite into it. But can you describe, let alone experience its taste and smell? Maybe it\u2019s precisely because smells don\u2019t readily convert to similes and metaphors that they are such powerful triggers? Back to the book... Narrators: Banville = Morden = Cleave? \u201c We sought to escape from an intolerable present in the only tense possible, the past. \u201d <---C>Max Morden</---C> is barely distinguishable from Alex Cleave in the Eclipse, Shroud, Ancient Light trilogy (Ancient Light reviewed HERE ), who is apparently rather similar to Banville. Max and Alex narrate in exactly the same rambling, occasionally introspective, self-centred, curmudgeonly, largely guilt-free, and invariably misogynistic voice. The writing is sweet and sour. And beautiful. Fluency disguises an underlying inarticulacy in the face of recent and ancient tragedies, where \u201cthe cruel complacency of ordinary things\u201d is epitomised by \u201ctight-lipped awkwardness\u201d of furniture, and for the people involved, \u201cFrom this day forward, all would be dissembling. There would be no other way to live with death.\u201d Even the land is inarticulate: \u201cMarsh and mud flats where everything seemed turned away from the land, looking desperately towards the horizon as if in mute search for a sign of rescue.\u201d And web-toed Myles is literally mute: \u201cBeing alone with Myles was like being in a room which someone had just violently left. His muteness was a pervasive and cloying emanation.\u201d Both narrators are forever questioning their own motives and pointing out the inconsistencies of their memories: \u201cIt has all begun to run together, past and possible future and impossible present\u201d. As an art historian, Max is familiar with touching up portraits: \u201cMemories are always eager to match themselves seamlessly to the things and places of a revisited past\u201d Alex, and especially Max, are trying to write. They both have a problematic daughter, referred to by two names beginning with C. Both had, or fantasised about, a youthful relationship with a mother figure, the similarly named Mrs Grace and Mrs Gray. And in this case, the inadvertent temptress even offers him an apple. Most importantly, both have past and present tragedies, and revisit the former to understand and cope with the latter. The ending is rushed (too many events and revelations) and I do not like Max or Alex - to the extent I almost wonder why I like these books: \u201cWith women, wait long enough and one will have one\u2019s way\u201d and his reveries are \u201cin the unvarying form of pursuit and capture and violent overmastering\u201d! Nevertheless, Banville\u2019s skill is such that I have some sympathy for them, and I want to know their stories. Quotes - Smells * \t\u201cMy daughter\u2026 usually has no smell at all\u201d unlike her mother, \u201cwhose feral reek, for me the stewy fragrance of life itself, and which the strongest perfume could not quite suppress, was the thing that first drew me to her.\u201d * \t\u201cIn her last months, she smelt, at her best, of pharmacopoeia.\u201d * \t\u201cThe cool thick secret smell of milk made me think of Mrs Grace.\u201d * \t\u201cA mingled smell of spilt beer and stale cigarette smoke.\u201d * \t\u201cAs I was heaving myself over in a tangle of sheets\u2026 I caught a whiff of my own warm cheesy smell.\u201d * \t\u201cShe smelled of sweat and cold cream and, faintly, of cooking fat.\u201d * \t\u201cA whiff of her sweat-dampened civet scent.\u201d * \t\u201cHer milk-and-vinegar smell.\u201d * \t\u201cLittle animals we were, sniffing at each other. I liked in particular\u2026 the cheesy tang in the crevices of her elbows and knees\u2026 In general she gave off\u2026 a flattish, fawnish odour, like that which comes out of, which used to come out of, empty biscuit tins in shop.\u201d * \tRecently bereaved, new places are \u201clike a wedding suit smelling of moth-balls and no longer fitting.\u201d * \t\u201cPeppermints\u2026 the faint sickly smell of which pervades the house\u201d. * \t\u201cThe squat black gas stove sullen in its corner and smelling of the previous lodger\u2019s fried dinners.\u201d * \t\u201cThe smell in the hall was like the smell of my breath when I breathed and rebreathed it into my cupped hands.\u201d * \t\u201cSmells of exhaust smoke, the sea, the garden\u2019s autumn rot.\u201d * \tRailway \u201cgiving off its mephtic whiff of ash and gas.\u201d * \tIn a tree, \u201cat this height the breeze\u2026 smelling of inland things, earth, and smoke, and animals\u201d. * \tAn abandoned beach hut, \u201csmelling of old urine\u201d. * \tOn the point of death, \u201cher breath gave off a mild, dry stink, as of withered flowers\u201d. Quotes - Sea * \t\"The waves clawed at the suave sand along the waterline, scrabbling to hold their ground but steadily failing.\" * \t\u201cLead-blue and malignantly agleam.\u201d * \t\"A white seabird, dazzling against the wall of cloud, flew up on sickle wings and turned with a soundless snap and plunged itself, a shutting chevron, into the sea's unruly back.\" * \t\u201cThe seabirds rose and dived like torn scraps of rag.\u201d * \t\u201cThe salt-sharpened light.\u201d * \t\u201cBy the sea, there is a special quality to the silence at night\u2026 It is like the silence that I knew in the sickrooms of my childhood\u2026 It is a place like the place where I feel that I am now, miles from anywhere, and anyone.\u201d * \t\u201cHearing the monotonously repeated ragged collapse of waves down on the beach.\u201d Quotes - Memories, Aging, Past, Future * \t\u201cThe past beats inside me like a second heart.\u201d * \t\u201cI have been elbowed aside by a parody of myself.\u201d * \t\u201cThese days I must take the world in small and carefully measured doses, it is a sort of homeopathic cure\u2026 Perhaps I am learning to live amongst the living again\u2026 But no, that\u2019s not it. Being here is just a way of not being anywhere.\u201d * \t\u201cThe image that I hold of her in my head is fraying, bits of pigment, flakes of gold leaf, are chipping off.\u201d * \t\u201cHappiness was different in childhood\u2026 a matter of simple accumulation, of taking things\u2026 and applying them like so many polished tiles to what would someday be the marvellously finished pavilion of the self.\u201d Quotes - Other * \t\"To be concealed, protected, guarded, that is all I have ever truly wanted, to burrow down into a place of womby warmth, and cower there, hidden from the sky's indifferent gaze and the harsh air's damagings.\" * \t\u201cRust has reduced its struts to a tremulous filigree.\u201d A gate. * \tThe wink of a new neighbour, \u201cjaunty, intimate and faintly satanic\u201d. * \t\u201cThe smile she reserved for him [husband], sceptical, tolerant, languidly amused.\u201d * \t\u201cThe chalet that we rented was a slightly less than life-sized wooden model of a house.\u201d * \tFather returns \u201cin a wordless fury, bearing the fruits of his day like so much luggage clutched in his clenched fists.\u201d * \t\u201cTheir unhappiness was one of the constants of my earliest years, a high, unceasing buzz just beyond hearing\u2026 I loved them, probably. Only they were in my way, obscuring my view of the future. In time I would be able to see right through them, my transparent parents.\u201d * \t\u201cEven from inside the car we could hear the palms on the lawn in from dreamily clacking their dry fronds.\u201d * \t\u201cDespite the glacial air a muted hint of past carousings lingered.\u201d * \t\u201cBeyond the smouldering sunlight there is the placid gloom of indoors.\u201d * \t\u201cPerhaps all life is no more than a long preparation for the leaving of it.\u201d * \t\u201cLight of summer thick as honey fell from the tall windows and glowed on the figured carpets.\u201d * \t\u201cThat fretful, dry, papery rustle that harbinges autumn.\u201d * \t\u201cThe Godhead for me was a menace, and I responded with fear and its inevitable concomitant, guilt.\u201d But that\u2019s as a child. * \t\u201cDevout as holy drinkers, dipped our faces towards each other\u2026 I tasted her urgent breath.\u201d * \t\u201cIt was as if the evening, in all the drench and drip of its fallacious pathos, had temporarily taken over from me the burden of grieving.\u201d * \t\u201cThe open doorway from which a fat slab of sunlight lay fallen at our feet. Now and then a breeze from outside would wander in absent-mindedly.\u201d * \t\"For even at such a tender age I knew there is always a lover and a loved, and knew which one, in this case, I would be.\u201d * \t\u201cA series of more or less enraptured humiliations. She accepted me as a supplicant at her shrine with disconcerting complacency\u2026 Her willful vagueness tormented and infuriated me.\u201d * \t\u201cIs this not the secret aim of all of us, to be no longer flesh but transformed utterly into the gossamer of unsuffering spirit?\u201d * \t\u201cA chintz-covered sofa sprawls as if aghast, its two arms flung wide and cushions sagging\u2026 Piano, its lid shut, stands against the back wall as if in tight-lipped resentment of its gaudy rival opposite.\u201d * \t\u201cThe canned audience doing our laughing for us.\u201d * \t\u201cThe polished pewter light of the emptied afternoon.\u201d \u201cThe copper-coloured light of the late-autumn evening.\u201d * \t\u201cPuddles on the road that now were paler than the sky, as if the last of day were dying in them.\u201d * \t\u201c Drowning is the gentlest death .\u201d Image source of nose sculpture on a beach at Colmslie Beach Reserve in Brisbane: http://www.weekendnotes.com/im/002/05... Originally recommended by Dolors, in relation to The Sense of an Ending. Her review of this is here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ...more This is a Booker Prize winner. The language in this short novel is very, very rich, evocative and annoyingly, sent me to the dictionary far too many times for comfort. Banville is just showing off, descending into literary affectation perhaps. Two time-lines interweave as Max, a retired art critic, now living at The Cedars, a grand house of note from his youth, recalls those days when he lived with his family in much more modest surroundings and peered longingly into this place. Of course, it wa This is a Booker Prize winner. The language in this short novel is very, very rich, evocative and annoyingly, sent me to the dictionary far too many times for comfort. Banville is just showing off, descending into literary affectation perhaps. Two time-lines interweave as Max, a retired art critic, now living at The Cedars, a grand house of note from his youth, recalls those days when he lived with his family in much more modest surroundings and peered longingly into this place. Of course, it was not wealth per se that drew his 11 year old interest, but the presence of The Graces, not a religious fascination, but a family. A pan-like, goatish father, Carlo, an earth mother, Constance, white-haired (and thus summoning Children of the Damned notions) twins, a strange mute boy, Myles, who is sometimes comedic and sometimes sinister, a maybe-sociopathic girl, Chloe, and another girl, Rose, who appeared to be a mere friend, but was their governess. That this is left unclear for much of the book seems odd. Young Max enjoys the social step up he gets by hanging out with the twins, and is quite willing to go along with their cruelties to subservient locals, but is most taken with Constance Grace, pining for her in an awakening sexual way, until, of course, his heart, or some bodily part, is stolen by Chloe. There is a scent here of Gatsby-ish longing, and Max is indeed a social climber. Death figures very prominently in The Sea. \u201cThey departed, the gods, on the day of the strange tide,\u201d is how it opens, and goes on very briefly to summon an image of a rising sea intent on devouring all. I will spare you the final death scene, but Max does indeed cope with death, the passing of his wife, Anna, contemplation of his own ultimate demise and how death, as personified by the sea, not only affected his life, but seems always with us. This is I suppose a novel of coming and going of age. Banville is quite fond of deitific references, finding a different god or goddess for each of his characters. And his art-critic narrator sprinkles the narration with references to paintings. Sadly for me, I am completely unfamiliar with the works noted, so may have missed key references. Max is not a nice person. He engages in cruel behavior as a child and appears to lack a strong core of humanity, confessing that he doesn\u2019t really know his daughter very well, and not seeming to care much. I was almost satisfied with the ending, which recalls the most significant event of his youth, but I felt that it left unsatisfactorily unexplained the reasons for its occurrence. I was also frustrated by the slowness of the book. Although it is a short novel, it seemed to take a long time to get going. And the central characters do not call out for any of us to relate to them. All that said, while I might not award it a Booker, I would recommend it. The language is sublime (tote a dictionary while you read. You will need it.) and the payoff is good enough to justify the slow pace. PS - for a very different and fascinating take on the novel be sure to check out Cecily's review ...more The past beats inside me like a second heart. Max Morden had met once gods. They came in the guise of Grace family. Father, noisy lecherous satyr. Mother, oozing sensuality indolent goddess, will become his first erotic fascination. And twins. Chloe, very mature for her age, feisty girl with rather strong personality and Myles, shy and impish boy. There was Rose yet, nanny or governess, a sad nymph holding a secret in her heart. They rented at the seaside a summer house, called The Cedars. And no The past beats inside me like a second heart. Max Morden had met once gods. They came in the guise of Grace family. Father, noisy lecherous satyr. Mother, oozing sensuality indolent goddess, will become his first erotic fascination. And twins. Chloe, very mature for her age, feisty girl with rather strong personality and Myles, shy and impish boy. There was Rose yet, nanny or governess, a sad nymph holding a secret in her heart. They rented at the seaside a summer house, called The Cedars. And now, half a century later, widowed and lonely Max is in that place again. He\u2019s a man who never had a personality, not in the way that others have, or think they have. I was always a distinct no-one whose fiercest wish was to be an indistinct someone as he disarmingly admits. He takes a room in the Cedars but memory plays tricks on him. Everything has changed though seems to be the same and invariant. It\u2019s naivety to expect even prospect of return, isn\u2019t it ? Only the sea appears to be unchangeable. What is he looking for here ? Alleviation, calm, death, answer, missing piece of the puzzle ? This memorable summer, painted with golden sun and inky shadow, creates the first plan of the novel. Just then Max had gained this sad knowledge that there is always a lover and a loved and which role he would be playing in that act. There is another plan as well also given in flashbacks. It concerns Morden\u2019s marriage, illness and finally death of his wife. These two plans are mixing alternately with his present stay at the seaside. Such is the nature of memory that one recollection leads to another gradually unveiling more and more from our past and showing intimate image of our life. The sea then, with its tides, is a record of that process, coming to terms with loss, dismantling of memory, family, love, past . Banville\u2019s prose, perfectly fitting in with the gray and cold ubiquity of the sea, is elegiac and poetic. And concluding paragraph is profoundly purifying. I do not remember well that day when the gods departed. But I know where I can find them now. They remain incessantly like insects caught in a drop of resin, like the blades of grass trapped in the amber. They possessed for good this mythical land, that distant Arcadia of my childhood. And I believe that still have the key to that land. ...more I wish to thank my wonderful friend Seemita, who is truly an amazing reviewer, for inspiring me to read this book. \" The silence about me was heavy as the sea .\" Silence. It is a special kind of language. The language of the dead, of those long gone, of the forgotten, the misunderstood, the hurt, the mad and, sometimes, the content. What do they tell me? What does silence tell me? What does it tell Max Morden? It tells him a story. The story of his life. It embraces him, caresses him, whispers to hi I wish to thank my wonderful friend Seemita, who is truly an amazing reviewer, for inspiring me to read this book. \" The silence about me was heavy as the sea .\" Silence. It is a special kind of language. The language of the dead, of those long gone, of the forgotten, the misunderstood, the hurt, the mad and, sometimes, the content. What do they tell me? What does silence tell me? What does it tell Max Morden? It tells him a story. The story of his life. It embraces him, caresses him, whispers to him of everyone and everything lost. He holds on to it. It is his only companion, his only friend, the lover that will never tire of him. It is his secret path to a better world. The world of the past. \u201cTo be concealed, protected, that is all I have ever truly wanted, to be hidden from the sky\u2019s indifferent gaze and the harsh air\u2019s damagings. That is why the past is just such a retreat for me, I go there eagerly, shaking off the cold present and the colder future\u201d Yet, he discovers that silence has been his companion his whole life. He knows and understands it like he has never known and understood anybody, including himself. \u201cI have come to realise how little I knew her. I know so little of myself, how should I think to know another?\u201d Has he walked into it for so long as to not be able to understand the world around him? Has he truly wanted to? It is often easier to let go of the truth, dispose of it like of unnecessary, heavy and unattractive object and create another version of it, \"new reality\" \u201cWhich is the more real, the woman reclining on the grassy bank of my recollections, or the strew of dust and dried marrow that is all the earth any longer retains of her?\u201d Which is more real? The past or the present? And when we cannot find refuge in the past, the present is painful, the future unattainable, unimaginable, where is the sanctuary? Is it within us? What does lay within us besides ourselves? Those whom we refuse to let go of? Max believes that no one is truly gone as long as they are remembered. \u201cAnd yet people do go, do vanish. That is the greatest mystery of all\u201d Duality. Ambiguity. Isn\u2019t it part of us all, of everything that surrounds us? We die, yet, we go on living. Time passes, nobody can escape change. \u201cAt what moment, of all our moments, is life not utterly, utterly changed, until the final, most momentous change of all?\u201d Yet, time is still. Our memory always brings us back to what we thought we\u2019ve left behind. \u201cThe past beats inside me like a second heart\u201d . And the more we walk within the realms of our own minds, the more we realize that we are like the sea. Ambivalent. We are cruel and merciful, placid and tempestuous, generous and harsh, known and mysterious. But unlike it, we are boundless. \"The waves before me at the water\u2019s edge speak with animate voice, whispering eagerly of some ancient catastrophe, the sack of Troy, perhaps, or the sinking of Atlantis\u2026I see the black ship in the distance, looming imperceptibly nearer at every instant. I am there. I hear your siren\u2019s song. I am there, almost there.\" Our minds, our pasts, are territories we explore, yet, there is so much that is left unexplored. What do they eagerly whisper to us? What song do they sing to us? What is revealed, what is left concealed? Are we ready to take that chance? Are we ready to immerse into the depths of the dark and mysterious past, are we ready to face the cold and painful present, do we dare hope for the obscure future? Who are we, what stories do we have to tell, and to whom do we tell them? Sometimes silence is the only one that listens. Sometimes that\u2019s enough. And sometimes it is not. \u201dThere is a special quality to the silence at night\u201d Read count: 1 P.S. The whole time while reading the book and then, while writing my review, I was listening to The Cure's \"Lullaby\". I think it fits perfectly. ...more I just have to say it: it's semiunremarkable until page 170 or so (this book, like many in the modern canon, such as \u201cAmsterdam,\u201d another Booker winner, is short in that bittersweet sort of way\u2014perilously malingering, at 200 pages, between being almost a novel, but not quite a novella)\u2014the plot ebbs and flows (ha) through an ocean of profound memories. The narrator chronicles, basically, two points in his life which left him devastated. His first ever, and his latest, all revolve around the sea, I just have to say it: it's semiunremarkable until page 170 or so (this book, like many in the modern canon, such as \u201cAmsterdam,\u201d another Booker winner, is short in that bittersweet sort of way\u2014perilously malingering, at 200 pages, between being almost a novel, but not quite a novella)\u2014the plot ebbs and flows (ha) through an ocean of profound memories. The narrator chronicles, basically, two points in his life which left him devastated. His first ever, and his latest, all revolve around the sea, its massiveness and its depths, its personal mysterious allure. He meditates on the last one of these presages of death, that looming event itself, so final and sad\u2014and the end really is like dynamite. I can only compare it to \u201cEveryman\u201d by Roth, even \u201cThe Death of Ivan Ilych\u201d in its management of such a theme which is, at first glimpse, frankly, droll & overdone. The poetry which had been glimpsed at before creates a lasting impact on the reader at its speedy conclusion. The tedium and clich\u00e9d tactics become very much negligible once the ending gets there. Here is a paramount example of how the ending makes the book. ...more The silence about me was heavy as the sea. Sitting by the sea, I am trying hard to evade the embrace of camphoric memories that hover schemingly, stroked by the amorous waves. Often this colossal sapphire vial of solitude, seduced by a flicker of cuprous sky or a kiss of the timorous breeze, changes colour and instead of heaping balms of comfort, loathes me with a vision so sharp that a part of me detaches with a vile force and travels into the dense, supine but thorny gardens of bygone land. The silence about me was heavy as the sea. Sitting by the sea, I am trying hard to evade the embrace of camphoric memories that hover schemingly, stroked by the amorous waves. Often this colossal sapphire vial of solitude, seduced by a flicker of cuprous sky or a kiss of the timorous breeze, changes colour and instead of heaping balms of comfort, loathes me with a vision so sharp that a part of me detaches with a vile force and travels into the dense, supine but thorny gardens of bygone land. And then begins a passionate journey between these two warriors who might belong to the same clan but having grown under two vastly different masters, have acquired their traits \u2013 past and present do not let any pupil off easily. In present , Max Morden, having lost his beloved wife, Anna and in a bid to subdue his bereavement, has returned to his childhood town of Ballyless, to \u2018The Cedars\u2019, a high-class hotel. In past , \u2018The Cedars\u2019 was the hallowed cloister of his teenage assaults which had often boomeranged on his own poor, chalet-resident soul. In present , he checks into a prime room that oversees the jeweled crust of the sea-line, enameled with stony webs and insensitive tourists. In past , this epoch room was one with his vision of infinite pool, sinking in whose bosom with an acerbic joy was his indomitable dream. In present , he gingerly maneuvers the kitchen maze and noiselessly slips into the dining chair with a cerebral ray of sunlight keeping him painfully agile. In past , that very table held his lean legs and strong arms to heighten his nubile passion for Mrs. Grace and idolatrous love for Mrs. Grace\u2019s daughter, Chloe (view spoiler) [( in that order) (hide spoiler) ] , its inhabitants. As the gusts of past hurl at the present , heavy boulders of questions, flanked by incredulity and guilt, the present retaliates with a torrid shower of indifference and futility, armed with occasional pelting of tranquil hailstones. The crystal clear mirror that his life had become was merciless in throwing his reflections which neither seemed to fit the past mantle nor could adorn the present portico. But despite such denouncement, Morden keeps the mirror in utmost care, as if his life depended on it. And that is no surprise. We all have a small box, tucked carefully under a bed or inside an old cupboard, whose only purpose in our lives is to reshuffle it. Its occupants might wear the tags of \u2018abandoned\u2019, \u2018faulty\u2019, \u2018useless\u2019, \u2018childish\u2019, \u2018silly\u2019, \u2018vulgar\u2019, \u2018scary\u2019, \u2018ignominious\u2019 but they form a part of us that made us what we are today. And no part which plays that part is ever worth giving up. So, it beseeches the stormy nights when we witnessed our cold hearts and we let it; it invokes those blinding days when our burning pursuits ensnarled us and we let it; it inspires us with unbelievable vignettes of our audacity; it vanquishes us with equally unbelievable imprints of our timidity. Its flickering pulse does enough to keep our life monitors active and we simply take solace in the fact that it adorns our life; much like a vintage clock that does not show the right time any more but the time it shows cannot be displayed by any modern timepiece. I return my glance to the sea and wonder if it ever felt the need to demerge past and present to keep the belligerent duo from infiltrating the fragile fabric of human heart that comes to its arms in search of aching succor. But by sending a colossal army of waves my way, it appears to have answered my pondering in Banville\u2019s restorative thought: Has this not always been my aim, is this not, indeed, the secret aim of all of us, to be no longer flesh but transformed utterly into a gossamer of un-suffering spirit? ...more \u201cThe past beats inside me like a second heart.\u201d - John Banville, The Sea Over the years, I've collected about 3 or 4 Banville books (just bought a slog more). The first was given to me by a girl I liked in HS, but never got around to reading it or dating her. I was finally inspired (or moved?) to read 'the Sea' (and a couple other Ireland-themed novels) because I was going to spend a week with the wife in Ireland and there is nothing better to read about on vacation than sex*, death, loss and san \u201cThe past beats inside me like a second heart.\u201d - John Banville, The Sea Over the years, I've collected about 3 or 4 Banville books (just bought a slog more). The first was given to me by a girl I liked in HS, but never got around to reading it or dating her. I was finally inspired (or moved?) to read 'the Sea' (and a couple other Ireland-themed novels) because I was going to spend a week with the wife in Ireland and there is nothing better to read about on vacation than sex*, death, loss and sand. It was beautiful. It was poetry. It was nearly perfect. It is easy to borrow images and allusions from other critics. It is a snap to fit the Banville piece in the puzzle among his Irish peers (piers?). It is a picnic to park Banville's summer blanket next to Beckett or Joyce (yes, fine, they all dropped from their mother's wombs onto the same emerald island). It is easy to play the literary cousin game and compare Banville to Proust or Nabokov or Henry James. These things are all true. They are also all fictions and obvious short cuts. I haven't read enough of Banville to say he measures up to Proust or Nabokov, but damn this book was fine. There really must be something in the water because I'm reading Enright's The Gathering right now and my first thought was 'da feck'? Two Man Bookers by Irish novelists about drowning, death and memory. I'm sure there is more than water and whiskey to this island. Anyway, I loved and adored 'The Sea'. I used those slick little page-markers everytime I came across a line of Banville's that seemed especially quoteable. I gave up when I ran out of markers. The edge of the book looked like a colorful Stegosaurus with markers dancing up and down the pages. * On a side note. It is VERY rare that a writer can actually write about sex without making me want to run from the room. They either make it too clinical (like a doctor popping zits) or too silly (like the cover of a romance novel) or too ethereal (like clouds copulating). Joyce could do it. Nabokov could do it. And I'm proud to say Banville can do it too. ...more The Sea really bugged me. I've never read another John Banville novel, so I don't know whether this one is typical of his writing in general, but nothing irritates me more these days than a writer who has considerable gifts at his command who writes novels that function as elegant window displays for the considerable gifts at his command. The plot of the book, such as it is, finds middle-aged Max Morden retiring to a rented house by the sea, near the \"chalets\" where he spent his boyhood summers, The Sea really bugged me. I've never read another John Banville novel, so I don't know whether this one is typical of his writing in general, but nothing irritates me more these days than a writer who has considerable gifts at his command who writes novels that function as elegant window displays for the considerable gifts at his command. The plot of the book, such as it is, finds middle-aged Max Morden retiring to a rented house by the sea, near the \"chalets\" where he spent his boyhood summers, to mourn his wife's death and think about the past. The first person account intercuts Max's memories of his wife's final months with his memories of a \"significant\" summer he spent by the sea, during which he became fascinated with the Graces, a family a rung or two higher on the social ladder than Max himself. I put \"significant\" in quotation marks, because I can't for the life of me figure out what's significant about Max's relationship with the Graces, other than the opportunity it affords Banville to display his considerable gifts, and -- what's worse -- I can't even fathom what's significant about his wife's death other than the opportunity it affords Banville . . . well, you get the idea. The premise of the novel seems to be \"Hey, look at me, everybody, I'm the 'heir to Nabokov.' The back of the book says so. And besides, my book is filled with Beautiful Prose.\" The linking of Banville's name with Nabokov on the back of the book does Banville a considerable disservice. I kept expecting withering satire and a devastating prose style (Banville is good, but he's not that good), and all I got was the narrator's tendency to pepper his recollections with big, bloated words. \"Character-driven\" novels are not of themselves a bad thing. Perhaps my favorite novel of the last thirty years (Gilead) relies more on character than on plot. If you're going to rely on character, however, you'd better make sure your characters are at least one, and preferably all, of the following: a) sympathetic; b) compelling; c) more than merely a place marker for inflated, if not particularly profound, ruminations on the Big Questions. One of Banville's passages may illustrate what bothers me most about this book. In the passage, Morden describes the photographs his terminally ill amateur-photographer wife has taken of fellow hospital patients -- all of whom have, apparently cheerfully, consented to expose their scars, wounds, and afflictions for the sake of . . . photographic immortality? . . . the gratification of their exhibitionist desires? . . . the betterment of mankind? I got stuck, as I read this passage, trying to figure out why the people in the photographs had agreed to present their private suffering in so public a fashion. Then I realized they were props, placed on stage to be rearranged and remarked upon, to give the leading man something to do while he wows us with his method acting. Oh, come on, one might object, isn't Yorick's skull a prop? Of course, but it's not merely a prop. We admire Hamlet's ability to make him live again, but that's just it. He makes him live again. Nobody really lives in Banville's novel, including his narrator, and perhaps that's not surprising in a novel that is mostly about death. What's more surprising, though, is that, for all his lovely style, Banville leaves us with very little impression that anyone in this book ever really has lived. In the book's final passages, Max Morden likens the moment of his wife's death to a moment in his childhood when he had been lifted up by a suddenly surging sea, carried toward shore a bit, and then set down again. It was, he says, \"as if nothing had happened. And indeed nothing had happened, a momentous nothing, just another of the great world's shrugs of indifference.\" That's what it feels like to read ...more The Sea - All that water, perhaps, that inexorable slow flood , or perhaps, that relentless ambulatory constant, is one that consumes time, more like dedimentionizes time, if that's a word, provides a cathartic shoulder, and stands remorselessly tall as if symbolizing an indifferent eternity. It cries within like a whimpering child as if it is made purely of emotions, and it roars in insurmountable outrage at the shore which is in a constant tussle to bind it. But it also retreats like a capric The Sea - All that water, perhaps, that inexorable slow flood , or perhaps, that relentless ambulatory constant, is one that consumes time, more like dedimentionizes time, if that's a word, provides a cathartic shoulder, and stands remorselessly tall as if symbolizing an indifferent eternity. It cries within like a whimpering child as if it is made purely of emotions, and it roars in insurmountable outrage at the shore which is in a constant tussle to bind it. But it also retreats like a capricious child and sometimes shimmers like a model posing for a portrait. Not only in the photographs, but also in our lives it acts as a backdrop, tailoring a distinct bookmark for each of our memories. Or so it happened with Max Morden and his implacable past that beat in him like a second heart. The story here really doesn't make an impact because that's not where we are allowed to focus even for one second in this marvelous little book. For, when we are in the mind of a character and sifting through his memories anachronistically, we only see the still images speaking to us from various corners. For example, An old empty eatery by the sea with sun rays slashing through an open window as if trying to brighten the somber air and a gush of wind pushing a stray piece of paper across the floor for someone to pick up and make a conversation. Or a bright sunny day on the beach when a child lying on sand looking at the idiosyncrasies of a family who came out for a picnic, a stern-disinterested father reclining listlessly on a chair, a pair of little twins going about their own adventures, a provocatively beautiful mother/wife looking for something to catch her fancy, and an enigmatic figure of a young nanny sitting with her knees to her chest and hands wrapped around, looking far into nothingness. Such are the images I am left with after putting this book down. There were times when I read about one of Max's memories and somehow time traveled to one of mines finding myself lost in it and having read a few pages of which I had no recollection. I found answers to certain questions in the form of crude revelations as if I always knew them but never thought of them in such a pristine manner. For example: Max's dying wife: 'You are not even allowed to hate me a little, any more, like you used to'. She looked out at the trees a while and then turned back to me again and smiled again and patted my hand. 'Don't look so worried,' she said. 'I hated you, too, a little. We were human beings, after all.' By then the past tense was the only one she cared to employ. Doesn't it sound like a perfect manifestation of love towards each other? And when Max tries to explain how his identity was defined through his wife in a relative way like a rose is red only for the eyes that sees it, or like if a tree falls in a forest, the sound is heard only by the dwellers and no one else. He also made me realize that memory is quite precarious, it gains its strength only by retelling or reminiscing. It also has an element of fantasy with the actual which makes it a little iffy because it vanishes or amends itself whilst encountering the reality again. But most of all, it most assuredly has a character of its own, like a person living in our heads. This day when I find myself indulged so completely in my memories and how similarly or differently I look at them as compared to Max, I realize the multitudes of spaces, dimensions, emotions, and time that we are capable of traversing and transcending. It is truly overwhelming. ...more I actually put this book in the same category as James Frey's \"Million Little Pieces\": so bad, it was enjoyable to read. But of course this was bad in entirely more ambitious, pretentious ways than Frey could ever achieve. It's been about two years since I read this, so forgive my lack of specificity, but I'll try to pin down some examples of appalling devices that both rankled and tickled me. -Balliteration: Banville, perhaps due to his over fondness for the first letter of his last name (as ot I actually put this book in the same category as James Frey's \"Million Little Pieces\": so bad, it was enjoyable to read. But of course this was bad in entirely more ambitious, pretentious ways than Frey could ever achieve. It's been about two years since I read this, so forgive my lack of specificity, but I'll try to pin down some examples of appalling devices that both rankled and tickled me. -Balliteration: Banville, perhaps due to his over fondness for the first letter of his last name (as others have been shown to feel, in psychology studies), found it wise to buffet us with a bounty of bubbly, bouncy balloonish words beginning with \"b\" to give us a sense of what, I'm still not sure. -What was it called again? A device. Numerous times, Banville shows a sudden amnesia for common objects, which comes off as implausible after he has put so much attention showing off his knowledge. An example was his not knowing a common tree: a pine, was it? And what is that tool we use to record our thoughts? A pen? -Which leads very well in to my next observation: I had the distinct sense Banville wrote this with a thesaurus in one hand and his cock in the other (I apologize to younger readers of this review). Am I merely hurt that I had to look up so many words I'd never heard of before? No. What shocked me was that, when I looked up all four definitions of one word, not one of them made sense in the context in which it was used, and it was not a term that could possibly be used as a symbol or metaphor, due to the specific nature of the word. Unfortunately, I forget which it was, but for a while, Frank and I did have a game of testing our memory of the various words Banville used. -His choice to leave all identifiable plot to the last twenty pages, so that . . . we could see he was capable of telling a story? So the book ended on a high note of grief? So that the book of loose ends is tied up and made whole? I've read too many books in which the plot occurs in the last chapter to be amazed or blown away or impressed by the conclusion. In the end, it's a mere device to produce tension when it couldn't be created in a more honest fashion (because of course the protagonist already knows all the secrets that are kept from the reader). What was most surprising was that, when I picked up \"Christine Falls,\" which Banville felt it necessary to publish under the name Benjamin Black dare his reputation as a serious writer be tarnished, I discovered he could in fact write properly and engagingly without the above devices. Does that point to my having more common tastes? I trust my intelligence enough to say that this discovery merely points to the fact that Banville has lost sight of what \"impressive writing\" is. But for whatever it's worth, it was fun to mark up the margins of this book. Bravo? ...more This review may contain spoilers. Max Morden, recently widowed and father of a grown daughter, has traveled back to the sea, back to the seaside property that was the scene of a tragic event some fifty odd years ago. He would remember meeting the Grace family and becoming emotionally attached to the mother, Mrs. Grace, and to falling in love with her daughter Chloe. This is my first Banville book and I must say I was pleasantly surprised. Not because I didn't think it would be good, but by how goo This review may contain spoilers. Max Morden, recently widowed and father of a grown daughter, has traveled back to the sea, back to the seaside property that was the scene of a tragic event some fifty odd years ago. He would remember meeting the Grace family and becoming emotionally attached to the mother, Mrs. Grace, and to falling in love with her daughter Chloe. This is my first Banville book and I must say I was pleasantly surprised. Not because I didn't think it would be good, but by how good it was, how good the writing was. The prose was so flowing and beautiful, although slightly above my reading level. The style is so uniquely different than anything I've read before. The Sea won the 2005 Man Booker Prize, beating Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go by one vote. I haven't read that so I won't compare. But I liked this book, I like Banville's writing, and I give it four solid stars. ...more \"In those endless October nights, lying side by side in the darkness, toppled statues of ourselves, we sought escape from an intolerable present in the only tense possible, the past, that is the faraway past.\" The other week as I was chatting to my mum on the phone we got to talking about books. It's a frequent topic of conversation between us. My mum is very much the reason that I am a lover of the written word. I can just about recall my very first visit to our local library as a little girl \"In those endless October nights, lying side by side in the darkness, toppled statues of ourselves, we sought escape from an intolerable present in the only tense possible, the past, that is the faraway past.\" The other week as I was chatting to my mum on the phone we got to talking about books. It's a frequent topic of conversation between us. My mum is very much the reason that I am a lover of the written word. I can just about recall my very first visit to our local library as a little girl with her and the excitement I felt at being able to choose two books to bring home with me. Happily these days I can borrow twelve books at a time from my current local library! But I digress... As we were chatting I informed her that I had finally borrowed The Sea by John Banville . Her response, I'm paraphrasing here, essentially she informed me that she thought I would not like his writing style but she wished me good luck and she was looking forward to my opinions. Sounds ominous, right? And so, like every good daughter, I wanted to prove my mother wrong...... Damn it, I hate it when she's right!!!!!! So I got back on the phone to my mum a few days later, tail between my legs...okay not really between my legs because I was joking earlier. I knew she'd be right and it doesn't bother me. She's my mum! She really does know me better then anyone. But anyway, back on the phone and we had a lovely rant civilised conversation discussing the complexities of the book. We both appreciated the talents of Mr Banville. His command of the English language is phenomenal! My mum may have called him a show off, yikes! However, I had to politely disagree with her there but purely because I think I'm a bit more pretentious than she is!! We both agreed that we felt he lacked something when it comes to storytelling. We are Irish. John Banville is Irish. And storytelling is innate to us as a people. It's a common feature of Irish society. It's in our blood. And especially so when it comes to our writers. And for some reason I think that John Banville's eloquence and his gorgeously lyrical way of phrasing what he wants to say, somehow impacts negatively on his storytelling ability. His words are too perfectly formed into these short, and often breathtakingly beautiful, passages that somehow the greater picture is lost. As if you can't see the forest for the trees. The Sea has a great premise. A man looking back on significant moments in his life; a story of loss, grief, family... All great subjects in my opinion. And I absolutely loved the disjointed nature of the different timelines used within the book. I thought the slowly unfurling storylines was a great plot device. But for whatever reason, the premise never fully delivered on a story, it didn't feel like a truly rewarding read. I found that I could never completely connect emotionally with the story. Which seems peculiar because Max, the main character, is clearly experiencing deep emotion. Which led me to the opinion that John Banville truly is a poet in novelists clothing to paraphrase the old saying. I took so many notes when reading. I copied countless passages down and to me, they make for beautiful poetry. Taken singularly they inspire deep emotion within me but all written into this novel I felt his beautiful words were almost lost on me. I don't know if anyone else has felt like this. It reminds me of a YA book I read earlier this year, Lovely, Dark and Deep , review here. An entirely different type of book but with the most beautiful prose within its pages and like The Sea, some intangible something held me back from truly loving it. I'll post some of my favourite quotes and passages from The Sea at the end of this review. There was quite a lot of controversy when this book won The Booker Prize in '05. Many felt that Kazuo Ishiguro 's novel Never Let Me Go would have been a more suitable winner. As I have not yet read that I can't comment on that particular argument but I do have to question this as a winner because of the lack of pure emotional connection I had with the book... But what's new? I have yet to award any Booker Prize winners that I have read a full five stars. What can I say, I love to disagree with the critics!! And so, after all that, would I actually recommend The Sea? Absolutely! Go for it!!! First off. It won the Booker prize so it's always interesting to read them and formulate your own opinions about what passes for critically acclaimed modern literature. And a lot of fun to disagree like crazy with the result if you decide to agree with me!! But the main reason anyone should read this is for the writing. I really do think his command of English is breathtaking. And wholly natural. Frequently with critically acclaimed novels I find that authors tend to say things a million different ways just to show off that they can! The Luminaries was one of those books in my opinion. ( You can read my review of that here. ) John Banville doesn't do that, or at least he hides it better! Sometimes less is more. His purple prose is more subtle. It's quieter. More haunting. It really does feel like you are reading art! And that is the resounding feeling I will take with me after reading this book. I feel like I've gone to some beautiful museum and been part of an interactive literary installation. \"Strange, is it not, the way they lodge in the mind, the seemingly inconsidered things?\" I'll definitely read more John Banville in the future. And maybe another of his books will deliver on the storytelling aspect for me and then it truly will be a five star read. But for now, three stars. ------------- Favourite Quotes and Passages \"So much of life was stillness then, when we were young, or so it seems now; a biding stillness; a vigilance. We were waiting in our as yet unfashioned world, scanning the future as the boy and I had scanned each other, like soldiers in the field, watching for what was to come.\" \"The kettle came to the boil and switched itself off and the seething water inside it settled down grumpily. I marvelled, not for the first time, at the cruel complacency of ordinary things. But no, not cruel, not complacent, only indifferent, as how could they be otherwise? Henceforth I would have to address things as they are, not as I might imagine them, for this was a new version of reality.\" \"It was a sumptuous, oh, truly a sumptuous Autumn day, all Byzantine coppers and golds under a Tiepolo sky of enamelled blue, the countryside all fixed and glassy, seeming not so much itself as its own reflection in the still surface of a lake. It was the kind of day on which, latterly, the sun for me is the world's fat eye looking on in rich enjoyment as I writhe in my misery.\" \"Down here, by the sea, there is a special quality to the silence at night. I do not know if this is my doing, I mean if this quality is something I bring to the silence of my room, and even of the whole house, or if it is a local effect due to the salt in the air., perhaps, or the seaside climate in general. I do not recall noticing it when I was young and staying in the Field. It is dense and at the same time hollow. It took me a long while, nights and nights, to identify what it reminds me of. It is like the silence that I knew in the sickrooms of my childhood, when I would lie in a fever, cocooned under a hot, moist mound of blankets, with the emptiness squeezing in on my eardrums like the air in a bathysphere. Sickness in those days was a special place, a place apart, where no one else could enter, not the doctor with his shiver-inducing stethoscope or even my mother when she put her cool hand on my burning brow. It is a place like the place where I feel that I am now, miles from anywhere, and anyone.\" \"But I did not really care, not deep down, deep past guilt and suchlike affects. Love, as we call it, has a fickle tendency to transfer itself, by a heartless, sidewise shift, from one bright object to a brighter, in the most inappropriate of circumstances.\" \"Night, and everything so quiet, as if there were no one, not even myself. I cannot hear the sea, which on other nights rumbles and growls, now near and grating,meow afar and faint. I do not want to be alone like this. Why have you not come back to haunt me?\" ...more Reading John Banville is like taking a long, sumptuous bath. In my book, he is one of the finest prose stylists alive. The man can write. His language and sentences are gorgeous. I\u2019d like to say Banville is a marvel at describing characters but in fact he\u2019s a marvel at describing everything, from a breeze to a rain barrel: \u201cIt was a wooden barrel, a real one, full-size, the staves blackened with age and the iron hoops eaten to frills by rust. The rim was nicely bevelled, and so smooth that one cou Reading John Banville is like taking a long, sumptuous bath. In my book, he is one of the finest prose stylists alive. The man can write. His language and sentences are gorgeous. I\u2019d like to say Banville is a marvel at describing characters but in fact he\u2019s a marvel at describing everything, from a breeze to a rain barrel: \u201cIt was a wooden barrel, a real one, full-size, the staves blackened with age and the iron hoops eaten to frills by rust. The rim was nicely bevelled, and so smooth that one could hardly feel the joins between the staves; smoothly sawn, that is, and planed, but in texture the sodden grain-end of the wood there was slightly furry, or napped, rather, like the pod of a bulrush, only tougher to the touch, and chillier, and more moist. Although it must have held I do not know how many scores of gallons, it was always full almost to the brim, thanks to the frequency of rain in these parts, even, or especially, in summer.\u201d The narrator is pretending to write a book about the painter Bonnard and here is one of my favorite passages from The Sea , which surely brought to mind the sumptuous bath of language: \u201cIn 1927, Bonnard bought a house, Le Bosquet, in the undistinguished little town of Le Cannet on the Cote d\u2019Azur, where he lived with Marthe, bound with her in intermittenly tormented seclusion, until her death fifteen years later. At Le Bosquet she developed a habit of spending long hours in the bath, and it was in her bath that Bonnard painted her, over and over, continuing the series even after she had died. The 'Baignoires' are the triumphant culmination of his life\u2019s work. In the 'Nude in her bath, with dog,' begun in 1941, a year before Marthe\u2019s death and not completed until 1946, she lies there, pink and mauve and gold, a goddess of the floating world, attenuated, ageless, as much dead as alive, beside her on the tiles her little brown dog, her familiar, a dachshund, I think, curled watchful on its mat or what may be a square of flaking sunlight falling from an unseen window. The narrow room that is her refuge vibrates around her, throbbing in its colors. Her feet, the left one tensed at the end of its impossibly long leg, seem to have pushed the bath out of shape and made it bulge at the left end, and beneath the bath on that side, in the same force-field, the floor is pulled out of alignment too, and seems on the point of pouring away into the corner, not like a floor at all but a moving pool of dappled water.\u201d I was well aware of Banville\u2019s powers going into this book, and the fact that this one won the Booker Prize made me hope it would be the best. But for all its beautiful ruminating, I would have appreciated a tiny bit more plot. And I felt that the narrator asked me to plunge too quickly into sympathy with him with his \u201cah me\u201ds and other emphatics on the first pages. Not that they were huge on plot but I found Athena or The Book of Evidence superior to The Sea. Athena had its dark mystery, The Book of Evidence its blunter, more ironic dark. I think the Booker folks were afraid, having let some other Banville beauties go by, that if they didn't give this one the Booker Prize they might not see its ilk again. (In a similar case, Ian McEwan won the Booker for \"Amsterdam,\" which had to be one of his worst books, in my opinion.) ...more In the face of so many sublime reviews of this book I come up short. After the loss of his wife, Max comes adrift and seeks some kind of fertilization from visiting the seaside town of holidays in his childhood. Nice immersion in people and memories, but ultimately the book came off as too bland as Max had too little at stake, too little impetus to reshape his vision of the world, and not enough angst to take real risks. The Depths of Vocabulary John Banville loves words just as they are. Words like losel, and finical, gleet, scurf, bosky, cinerial, and merd that will really screw up your spell-checker. It's part of his masterful charm. Add his ability to put these words together in velvet sentences, and combine sentences into exquisite narrative, and voila: a writer worth his salt...as it were, especially with a title like The Sea. Inspired by Henry James? Very possibly, particularly by The Turn of the Screw and The Depths of Vocabulary John Banville loves words just as they are. Words like losel, and finical, gleet, scurf, bosky, cinerial, and merd that will really screw up your spell-checker. It's part of his masterful charm. Add his ability to put these words together in velvet sentences, and combine sentences into exquisite narrative, and voila: a writer worth his salt...as it were, especially with a title like The Sea. Inspired by Henry James? Very possibly, particularly by The Turn of the Screw and its permanent mystery. Nonetheless, uniquely and unmistakeably Banville. ...more Rating: 3.5* of five The Book Description : When Max Morden returns to the coastal town where he spent a holiday in his youth he is both escaping from a recent loss and confronting a distant trauma. The Grace family appear that long ago summer as if from another world. Drawn to the Grace twins, Chloe and Myles, Max soon finds himself entangled in their lives, which are as seductive as they are unsettling. What ensues will haunt him for the rest of his years and shape everything that is to follow. J Rating: 3.5* of five The Book Description : When Max Morden returns to the coastal town where he spent a holiday in his youth he is both escaping from a recent loss and confronting a distant trauma. The Grace family appear that long ago summer as if from another world. Drawn to the Grace twins, Chloe and Myles, Max soon finds himself entangled in their lives, which are as seductive as they are unsettling. What ensues will haunt him for the rest of his years and shape everything that is to follow. John Banville is one of the most sublime writers working in the English language. Utterly compelling, profoundly moving and illuminating, The Sea is quite possibly the best thing he has ever written. My Review : The experience of reading Banville is akin to the experience of going to a whole museum dedicated to Renoir or Monet: At first, the awestruck lip-smacking chin-drooling moaning of readerly joy: They departed, the gods, on the day of the strange tide. All morning under a milky sky the waters in the bay had swelled and swelled, rising to unheard-of heights, the small waves creeping over parched sand that for years had known no wetting save for rain and lapping the very bases of the dunes. The rusted hulk of the freighter that had run aground at the far end of the bay longer ago than any of us could remember must have thought it was being granted a relaunch. I would not swim again, after that day. The seabirds mewled and swooped, unnerved, it seemed, by the spectacle of that bowl of water bulging like a blister, lead-blue and malignantly agleam. (p3, Picador hardcover edition) This gorgeous, sumptuous repast, this unsettling, foreboding atmosphere, this unbearably tense muscle in the brain MUST be leading to some cathartic, catastrophic release! There is a great change coming, there is something to contrast this soft and lovely tone, this unsettling beauty, this pastry cream in a pool of custard frosted with whipped cream with. Well, now: Could we, could I, have done otherwise? Could I have lived differently? Fruitless interrogation. Of course I could, but I did not, and therein lies the absurdity of even asking. Anyway, where are the paragons of authenticity against whom my concocted self might be measured? In those final bathroom paintings that Bonnard did of the septuagenarian Marthe he was still depicting her as the teenager he had thought she was when he first met her. Why should I demand more veracity of vision of myself than of a great and tragic artist? (p218, Picador hardcover edition) And there it is, the catharsis. Sorta kinda, anyway. As much as you'll be getting, so take it and like it. There's a backstory to the catharsis, but it's all written in the ever-so-much of a writer's writing, and like the sugary sweetness of Renoir and Monet, in large doses it simply doesn't wear all that well. One longs for a smudge of dirt on the painting, or a misplaced modifier in the sentence, or even no modifier at all. But no. No indeed, there is no surcease, and therefore there is surfeit. Now if the assembled company will pardon me, I am off to eat plain Zweiback, drink tap water, and stare at a blank wall for a while, until my senses are defatted. ...more A gentleman reflects on his life, especially his youth, after the death of his wife. He returns to the formative landscape of his childhood, a modest seaside town and inn in Ireland. It is also the site of the formative tragedy of his childhood. In effect, we have a coming-of-age novel as reflected upon in later life. Instead of the psychological depth of Danish author Jens Grondahl reflecting on his marriage in Silence in October, we get lush descriptions and beautiful turns of phrase. Thoughtf A gentleman reflects on his life, especially his youth, after the death of his wife. He returns to the formative landscape of his childhood, a modest seaside town and inn in Ireland. It is also the site of the formative tragedy of his childhood. In effect, we have a coming-of-age novel as reflected upon in later life. Instead of the psychological depth of Danish author Jens Grondahl reflecting on his marriage in Silence in October, we get lush descriptions and beautiful turns of phrase. Thoughtful, slow reading; a treasure with many lines to savor. The Sea won the Booker Prize in 2005 and was picked as Novel of the Year by the Irish Book Awards in 2006. ...more \u201cElegiac\u201d is one of those literary adjectives, having to do with death. You get your fill of that with this one. Hell, the main character is named Max Morden, so what do you expect? Unfortunately, the better written an elegiac novel is, the sadder it seems. Banville, it\u2019s fair to say, is a writer\u2019s writer. This one got him a Booker Prize, so, lit cred out the wazoo, right? (I love playing the lowbrow in the face of such splendid erudition.) Actually, I can see how highbrows might value The Sea f \u201cElegiac\u201d is one of those literary adjectives, having to do with death. You get your fill of that with this one. Hell, the main character is named Max Morden, so what do you expect? Unfortunately, the better written an elegiac novel is, the sadder it seems. Banville, it\u2019s fair to say, is a writer\u2019s writer. This one got him a Booker Prize, so, lit cred out the wazoo, right? (I love playing the lowbrow in the face of such splendid erudition.) Actually, I can see how highbrows might value The Sea for its craft. It had sentences with lots of commas and a discernably tuneful cadence. It was structured well, too, switching often among settings: his boyhood summers in a seaside town, obsessed by young love; his last year with his charming, though human, wife; and his visit again to the sea as an older man with his memories and a bottle. The atmosphere was dense in a foggy sort of way. I\u2019m debating between 3 and 4 stars. When I think back, maybe it was a little too lyrical for my taste (which surprised me because I don\u2019t remember feeling that way with the other Banville book I read, The Untouchable ). At some level, I could appreciate the pain and the verity, but I\u2019m not sure I really wanted to. Three it is. ...more What in the hell just happened. Did I really trudge through all that overly-wrought prose only to curse Banville for producing the hint of redemption in the end of this thesaurus-spawn mud puddle? Thank you Booker Prize for yet another quality laugh. Here's a quality quote for those in doubt: \"seeming not to walk but bounce, rather, awkward as a half-inflated barrage balloon buffeted by successive breath-robbing blows out of the past.\" You've got to be kidding me John: here here I say to b'alliter What in the hell just happened. Did I really trudge through all that overly-wrought prose only to curse Banville for producing the hint of redemption in the end of this thesaurus-spawn mud puddle? Thank you Booker Prize for yet another quality laugh. Here's a quality quote for those in doubt: \"seeming not to walk but bounce, rather, awkward as a half-inflated barrage balloon buffeted by successive breath-robbing blows out of the past.\" You've got to be kidding me John: here here I say to b'alliteration. Here here to absolute bullshit. Or how about \"Deedle Deedle This World...\" If some scholarly genius can tell me what this offal means I'd be in your debt. Once again the Booker Prize anoints a gangrenous heel their stain of approval. ...more Prose style: 2 Plot : 2 Depth of characters: 2 Overall sense of aesthetic: 1 Originality: 3 Entertaining: 1 Emotional Reaction: 1 Intellectual Stimulation: 3 Social Relevance: 2 Writerly Inspiration: 1 Average = 1.8 I think this suffers from one basic writerly technique; describe what something is, not what something is like. If there were characters, a story or some kind of dramatic tension in this pile of high brow prattle, it was buried underneath the weight of endless adjectives and billowy senten Prose style: 2 Plot : 2 Depth of characters: 2 Overall sense of aesthetic: 1 Originality: 3 Entertaining: 1 Emotional Reaction: 1 Intellectual Stimulation: 3 Social Relevance: 2 Writerly Inspiration: 1 Average = 1.8 I think this suffers from one basic writerly technique; describe what something is, not what something is like. If there were characters, a story or some kind of dramatic tension in this pile of high brow prattle, it was buried underneath the weight of endless adjectives and billowy sentences. I began to really affirm my position that a large vocabulary doesn't add up to tremendous writing. In fact the two are almost mutually exclusive. There are many fantastic works of literature that draw from an incredible amount and complexity of words; Lolita , Infinite Jest , Absalom, Absalom! (okay, sure debatable). But as Papa Ernest proved time and time again \"big words don't mean big emotions!\" That being said, I think it is important to expand your vocabulary so that you have more options to choose from. I don't think one should use large words for the sake of themselves. One should carefully pick so as to make the perfect turn of phrase in that specific dramatic moment. Or your vocabulary is so big and your brain so large that you can write in any style, genre or situation! The Sea isn't great literature. This is an author desperately trying to write great literature. The book follows a man dealing with a traumatic loss and it jumps from time to time to simulate a man sifting through his memory to make sense of it all. Despite this justification of extreme leaps in time, it didn't bring me into the story at all. Instead it pushed me away. I had so little to grab onto. Maybe that was the point; to simulate the constant ethereal of water in the ocean. But again, it didn't make me feel anything for the characters or the plot lines. I'm not done with Banville. I'm reading The Book of Evidence very soon. I've heard great things about it and I'm excited for it. I was utterly disappointed by this one after all the gushing reviews of Banville's work. Oh well, off to bigger and better things ! ...more \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03ba\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u03a0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac, \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03b6\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039c\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03b2\u03b9\u03bb \u03c3\u03b1\u03b3\u03b7\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7, \u03c3\u03c5\u03c7\u03bd\u03ac \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ae\u03c1\u03c9\u03b1. \u0397 \u03bf\u03be\u03c5\u03b4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b4\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03c9\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03ba\u03b7. \u03a0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf 230 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03c9\u03bd, \u03bf\u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bf \u03b1\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03ad\u03bb\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03c8\u03b7 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03b2\u03bb\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1, \u03af\u03c3\u03b1 \u03af\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc \u03ac\u03ba\u03c1\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf. \u03a3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1, \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8 \u0395\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b7 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc\u03ba\u03bb\u03b9\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03bc\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03b9\u03cc\u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03c9\u03bd \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u03a0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac, \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03b6\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u039c\u03c0\u03b1\u03bd\u03b2\u03b9\u03bb \u03c3\u03b1\u03b3\u03b7\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bd\u03b5\u03c5\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7, \u03c3\u03c5\u03c7\u03bd\u03ac \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b9\u03bd\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03bb\u03bf\u03ba\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ae\u03c1\u03c9\u03b1. \u0397 \u03bf\u03be\u03c5\u03b4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03b4\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03c9\u03c3\u03b9\u03b1\u03ba\u03b7. \u03a0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf 230 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03c9\u03bd, \u03bf\u03c0\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5 \u03bf \u03b1\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03ad\u03bb\u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03c8\u03b7 \u03b4\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03b2\u03bb\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1, \u03af\u03c3\u03b1 \u03af\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c1\u03c5\u03b8\u03bc\u03cc \u03ac\u03ba\u03c1\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c4\u03c5\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf. \u03a3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1, \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c6\u03b9\u03bb\u03bf\u03c3\u03bf\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bd\u03bf\u03ae\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03ac\u03bb\u03c5\u03c3\u03b7, \u03b4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bb\u03b5\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b7 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03c5\u03c4\u03b1\u03af\u03b1 \u03bb\u03ad\u03be\u03b7 \u03b3\u03bb\u03ce\u03c3\u03c3\u03b1 (\u03bc\u03b5 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03b3\u03bc\u03ad\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03be\u03ad\u03c6\u03b5\u03c5\u03b3\u03b5), \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5\u03b4\u03b1\u03af\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. ...more The Sea is one of those rare books that I not only gave up on, but actually sold to a second-hand shop afterwards. Booker Prize winner, highly lauded in rec.arts.books and a handful of internet forums that I frequented in those days, and a pastel pastiche of hyper-pictorial pablum. Frankly, I don't remember a whole lot of this very brief excursion into Banvillea other than the endless, and I do mean endless descriptions and depictions of the sky\u2014the shape and color of the clouds, whether it was The Sea is one of those rare books that I not only gave up on, but actually sold to a second-hand shop afterwards. Booker Prize winner, highly lauded in rec.arts.books and a handful of internet forums that I frequented in those days, and a pastel pastiche of hyper-pictorial pablum. Frankly, I don't remember a whole lot of this very brief excursion into Banvillea other than the endless, and I do mean endless descriptions and depictions of the sky\u2014the shape and color of the clouds, whether it was enlivening or forbidding, whether wind-swept or barren, stark blue or multi-hued. Meanwhile, what passed for the story itself advanced, to no seeming purpose, the poncy reminiscences of a thoroughbred arsehole about his relationship with his empty space of a daughter. Normally I will be quite indulgent in allowing the author ample room in which to run up a full head of story steam\u2014but this particular book, shuffling its feet and lazily whistling whilst running out one bit of sky puffery after another\u2014got under my skin in record time. ...more I myself have lived near the edge of the sea for almost half a century, but I will never again regard the sea the same way after reading John Banville's The Sea . This is one of those rare books where you will keep coming back to its first line: \"They departed, the gods, on the day of the strange tide.\" The place is Ballyless, a hardscrabble coastal town with some cheap \"chalets\" in which dwell the lower classes, including the family of Max Gorner, the book's narrator. Nearby is a seaside cottage I myself have lived near the edge of the sea for almost half a century, but I will never again regard the sea the same way after reading John Banville's The Sea . This is one of those rare books where you will keep coming back to its first line: \"They departed, the gods, on the day of the strange tide.\" The place is Ballyless, a hardscrabble coastal town with some cheap \"chalets\" in which dwell the lower classes, including the family of Max Gorner, the book's narrator. Nearby is a seaside cottage called The Cedars in which Max sees a young family, the Graces, move in with their twin children, Chloe and Myles, and a governess named Rosie. As Max says: So much of life was stillness then, when we were young, or so it seems now; a biding stillness; a vigilance. We were waiting in our as yet unfashioned world, scanning the future as the boy [Myles] and I had scanned each other, like soldiers in the field, watching for what was to come. Max is drawn to the Graces, at first to the wife, Connie, and then to Chloe. There is a glitter to their lives that is missing from his rather dysfunctional family. Their table is set with high-class gadgets that leave Max both curious and a bit anxious. We skip forward (for the time, at least -- the story keeps returning to The Cedars for fresh insights) to Max's marriage to Annie. It is a successful marriage, with Max living the life of a dilettante, presumably working on his grand project of a book on the French painter Bonnard, but actually spending Annie's money in modest comfort. This comes to an end when she is diagnosed with cancer. Most of what we hear about Max's marriage is Annie's long slow fade-out. After Annie's death, Max returns to The Cedars as a lodger. It is now a boarding house of sorts with Miss Vavasour, the manager, the Colonel, and himself. But we keep rubber-banding back to the Graces and to Annie's death. Banville never really lets go, like a dog relentlessly chewing a bone. But what a bone it is! This is the first book I have read by Banville, and, God willing, it won't be the last. The Irishman is a master stylist who keeps coming back to his scenes like a pointillist painter putting new touches on his various canvases. One suddenly comes upon passages such as this: My life seemed to be passing before me, not in a flash as it is said to do for those about to drown, but in a sort of leisurely convulsion, emptying itself of its secrets and its quotidian mysteries in preparation for the moment when I must step into the black boat on the shadowed river with the coin of passage cold in my already coldening hand. Excuse me while I adjust my facial expression, as I seem to be gaping. No one ever said that Banville is a cheery writer. The scene where, after his wife's death, he stands in front of the mirror shaving at The Cedars and commenting about the strangeness of his aging face, is one of the most somber scenes in recent literature. And then, at the very end of the book, there are several shocking surprises which left me stunned, but which I hesitate to divulge. In the end, it could all be summarized with Max's exclamation, at one point, \"What a little vessel of sadness we are, sailing in this muffled silence through the autumn dark.\" ...more Vociferous ocean; aqueous words; the smell of the sea between the pages, lyrical, hypnotic, themes of redemption, melancholic twins, what\u2019s not to like? Plus, I read this book when I was Human as opposed to a Werewolf I\u2019m now; head filled with the elusive scent of hooded, red-cloaked, girl. This book had a fragrance of its own. An individual, distinctively lugubrious scent can be found within its pages, if you pressed your face between them hard enough. I can read this again and again and again, Vociferous ocean; aqueous words; the smell of the sea between the pages, lyrical, hypnotic, themes of redemption, melancholic twins, what\u2019s not to like? Plus, I read this book when I was Human as opposed to a Werewolf I\u2019m now; head filled with the elusive scent of hooded, red-cloaked, girl. This book had a fragrance of its own. An individual, distinctively lugubrious scent can be found within its pages, if you pressed your face between them hard enough. I can read this again and again and again, and enjoy it every time. ...more I'm reasonably confident that I will never read this book, but I'm definitely clipping Barry Forshaw's incandescent review as fodder for my collection of hackneyed review cliches. In three taut, elegant paragraphs, Forshaw leaves the reader breathless, stunned by the vacuous pomposity of his unusually moribund parade of bloviated buzzwords. Never one to eschew the sesquipedalian latinate impenetrability, Forshaw deploys them throughout his review with laserlike precision and beautifully text I'm reasonably confident that I will never read this book, but I'm definitely clipping Barry Forshaw's incandescent review as fodder for my collection of hackneyed review cliches. In three taut, elegant paragraphs, Forshaw leaves the reader breathless, stunned by the vacuous pomposity of his unusually moribund parade of bloviated buzzwords. Never one to eschew the sesquipedalian latinate impenetrability, Forshaw deploys them throughout his review with laserlike precision and beautifully textured transparency. Meaningless adjectives are scattered throughout the review to delight the reader, much like the partially gnawed limbs of the Donner Party. This review will make you pee your pants, it's such a fracking fully realised tour de force . As the link to Forshaw's review is no longer accessible, I include it below: Incandescent prose. Beautifully textured characterisation. Transparent narratives. The adjectives to describe the writing of John Banville are all affirmative, and The Sea is a ringing affirmation of all his best qualities. His publishers are claiming that this novel by the Booker-shortlisted author is his finest yet, and while that claim may have an element of hyperbole, there is no denying that this perfectly balanced book is among the writer\u2019s most accomplished work. Max Morden has reached a crossroads in his life, and is trying hard to deal with several disturbing things. A recent loss is still taking its toll on him, and a trauma in his past is similarly proving hard to deal with. He decides that he will return to a town on the coast at which he spent a memorable holiday when a boy. His memory of that time devolves on the charismatic Grace family, particularly the seductive twins Myles and Chloe. In a very short time, Max found himself drawn into a strange relationship with them, and pursuant events left their mark on him for the rest of his life. But will he be able to exorcise those memories of the past? The fashion in which John Banville draws the reader into this hypnotic and disturbing world is non pareil, and the very complex relationships between his brilliantly delineated cast of characters are orchestrated with a master\u2019s skill. As in such books as Shroud and The Book of Evidence, the author eschews the obvious at all times, and the narrative is delivered with subtlety and understatement. The genuine moments of drama, when they do occur, are commensurately more powerful. --Barry Forshaw ...more The Miasma of Self-Regard What does it mean to be able to write so gorgeously, to be apparently incapable of writing normally, like an ordinary novelist, and to perennially attract clich\u00e9s like 'lush,' 'beautiful,' 'mesmerizing,' 'virtuouso' -- and yet be hopelessly, permanently incapable of giving a novel drive, impetus, force, tension, forward movement: and to know that you never can, and to make a virtue of that fault, constructing books that seem to require lassitude, torpor, mulling and medi The Miasma of Self-Regard What does it mean to be able to write so gorgeously, to be apparently incapable of writing normally, like an ordinary novelist, and to perennially attract clich\u00e9s like 'lush,' 'beautiful,' 'mesmerizing,' 'virtuouso' -- and yet be hopelessly, permanently incapable of giving a novel drive, impetus, force, tension, forward movement: and to know that you never can, and to make a virtue of that fault, constructing books that seem to require lassitude, torpor, mulling and meditation, and then, perhaps because of your fame and the insulation it produces, to be unaware that readers can see that for what it is, and not even take pleasure in its desperation? ...more 4.5 Because I took an unconscionably long time to read this in the midst of winter holidays and a family health crisis, I wasn't really able to give it the full concentration it richly deserves, so I hope to return to it one day with a clearer mind. However, there is no mistaking Banville's glorious prose, and I fully intend to also read other of his works in the near future.", "Title": "The Sea"},
