{"Comments": "A friend of the family loaned me two <---A>Nicholas Sparks</---A> books.<---F> The friend is very nice</---F>. However,<---M> reading Nicholas Sparks</---M>, to quote Tommy Smothers, makes me realize why some animals eat their young. <+++>The Wedding</+++> almost seemed like it was specifically written for me to hate - and it's been a long time since I've disliked a book this much. There's no real art to it (<---B>people are \"white as paper\" and so forth</---B>), but it's written for people who don't exactly have alternative lifestyles or world views. The baby boomer housewife married her husband because he respected her desire to be a housewife at a time when \"most people our age wanted to change the world,\" and she knew he'd be a good provider. A <+++>The Wedding</+++> almost seemed like it was specifically written for me to hate - and it's been a long time since I've disliked a book this much. There's no real art to it (people are \"white as paper\" and so forth), but it's written for people who don't exactly have alternative lifestyles or world views. The baby boomer housewife married her husband because he respected her desire to be a housewife at a time when \"most people our age wanted to change the world,\" and she knew he'd be a good provider. As someone who eloped (and really upset her mother), I flinched when the wife freaked out just because her daughter wanted a small wedding (and says she would be horrified if her daughter had eloped). The entire book is devoted to wedding plans - the narrator will say something like \"I spent the afternoon in my den making calls for the wedding\" and then DETAIL them (called the sheetrock guy, who said...called the gardener, who said...). These are conversations that bore me in real life, so why would I want to read them in a book I'm ostensibly reading for pleasure??? And it is so over-the-top - the daughter asks her mom to be her matron of honor, and then there's a twist at the end that is impossible to believe would ever happen. Still, there are folks that will love this book despite its sappiness, and I don't want to rain on their parade more than I already have. ...more Most Nicholas Sparks' books are tear jerkers and heartbreaking, I just didn't expect this one to make me cry a little. It's more of happy tears than sad ones. I'm just incredibly touched with the story. Noah Calhoun's words helped Wilson Lewis to become a better man to his wife, Jane. Realizations of how much time he lost because he's too busy at work and doesn't pay much attention to his family. Wilson made a mistake of forgetting their wedding anniversary and hurts Jane's feelings. To make up Most Nicholas Sparks' books are tear jerkers and heartbreaking, I just didn't expect this one to make me cry a little. It's more of happy tears than sad ones. I'm just incredibly touched with the story. Noah Calhoun's words helped Wilson Lewis to become a better man to his wife, Jane. Realizations of how much time he lost because he's too busy at work and doesn't pay much attention to his family. Wilson made a mistake of forgetting their wedding anniversary and hurts Jane's feelings. To make up for it, he prepared something special on their next anniversary. . The ending is just really sweet in my opinion. I really like it. ...more So this is basically part 2 of The Notebook, the book and movie which made grown men cry. OK. So, Wilson forgets to bring a big bouquet of flowers and an expensive bottle of perfume through the door on their 29th anniversary. He has forgotten. Jane pouts until bedtime when she tells him what he has done now. That is the beginning of all the trouble. Then, Jane runs off to spend time in her son's out-of-state flat. Apparently thinking about leaving Wilson, The Husband Who Has Forgotten Their Anni So this is basically part 2 of The Notebook, the book and movie which made grown men cry. OK. So, Wilson forgets to bring a big bouquet of flowers and an expensive bottle of perfume through the door on their 29th anniversary. He has forgotten. Jane pouts until bedtime when she tells him what he has done now. That is the beginning of all the trouble. Then, Jane runs off to spend time in her son's out-of-state flat. Apparently thinking about leaving Wilson, The Husband Who Has Forgotten Their Anniversary. The son then tells his dad how devastated his mother was. Shame on you, Dad. Wilson shuffles into high gear when he realizes he may lose Jane. Taking time off work (he has become a workaholic), he pulls together a grand and beautiful and expensive wedding for his daughter (in a week's time) while he also tries desperately to woo Jane back. For someone who has been \"neglectful\" for years, I am surprised at his creativity and alacrity in planning all these events. Meanwhile back at the ranch, Jane's father (Noah, of Notebook fame)is suffering health setbacks and she is panicky and irritible. He spends his days sitting by the lake feeding a swan and now he's in hospital insisting he's all right. And Jane... Help me here... she feels she must be treated like a princess when she wants to be (her 30th birthday, she is only given a diamond tennis bracelet instead of driven in a limo and given every single thing she wants). She quietly mopes instead of taking the initiative and saying something like: \"we're growing apart, what can we do?\" and waits for Wilson to pick up on her silences. (Boohoo, I'm not getting any attention, etc.) Then she has the gall to hate the swan that her father is feeding at the retirement facility. I dunno Jane. Get a grip. Anyway, in the end it all works out for everyone, especially Jane who feels like a queen once again instead of just a friend. Perhaps it's because I've never seen this kind of marriage and would shrink at a man fawning over me like that. (It might make me wonder what he's done wrong.) But then, that's just me and I don't speak for the rest of the world. I also think I'm done reading anything by this author. ...more I read this book right after I read Twilight because I was on a romance kick (very rare, I promise) and I couldn't get my hands on New Moon . At first I was worried it was going to be lame because it makes it seem like it's going to be another story about what a jerk the main guy is and how he's neglecting his wife. However, I really liked the way the author made Wilson not a bad guy, but a good guy who just doesn't know any better. I usually don't like mushy books because it always seems like it I read this book right after I read Twilight because I was on a romance kick (very rare, I promise) and I couldn't get my hands on New Moon . At first I was worried it was going to be lame because it makes it seem like it's going to be another story about what a jerk the main guy is and how he's neglecting his wife. However, I really liked the way the author made Wilson not a bad guy, but a good guy who just doesn't know any better. I usually don't like mushy books because it always seems like it's way overdone, but this book was really sweet. The one aspect I didn't really like was the author ties the book to his previous one (which I love) The Notebook. I guess you could argue that it plays a big part in this story, but I really don't think so. I kinda think the author tied the two together to get people to buy this second book. However, I think it stands fine on it's own. Warning:: If you cry easily in books, this could get you to tear up. Plus, if you are one of those girls who always hopes your husband were a hopeless romantic, but honestly, he never has been so chances are he never will be, don't read this book. Well, I take that back. Read it if you can look at it as sort of a guide on things YOU can do yourself FOR your husband. It made me want to be a lot nicer to JD. ...more Noah is now living at Creekside, where he and Allie had moved toward the end of her life. He spends his time feeding a lone female swan, distinguished by a dark patch of color on her chest. Noah feels that this is Allie come back to him, and his children feel that he's lost touch with the world. Noah, however, never gives up on his theory and insists that it is his dear beloved wife. Noah and Allie's oldest daughter, Jane, is married to Wilson Lewis. They've been married for nearly 30 years and h Noah is now living at Creekside, where he and Allie had moved toward the end of her life. He spends his time feeding a lone female swan, distinguished by a dark patch of color on her chest. Noah feels that this is Allie come back to him, and his children feel that he's lost touch with the world. Noah, however, never gives up on his theory and insists that it is his dear beloved wife. Noah and Allie's oldest daughter, Jane, is married to Wilson Lewis. They've been married for nearly 30 years and have raised three children, all of whom are now adults. Jane and Wilson's story is told in flashbacks, as Wilson remembers what brought him and Jane together all those years ago. The reason for his reflections, though, is that he knows Jane is very unhappy with their marriage. So unhappy, that she leaves town for a few weeks to spend with their son Joseph. She doesn't say exactly why she left, but Wilson knows she needs to get away to think things over. In the meantime, their oldest daughter Anna has announced that she and her boyfriend Keith plan to be married in a few weeks. She doesn't want anything fancy, and plans to marry at the justice of the peace. However, this is not what Jane wants for her daughter. Suddenly, Jane shows a new interest in life, and with the help of Wilson the two of them proceed to organize the best wedding any daughter ever had. As the wedding plans take shape, Wilson keeps Noah up to date. During their visits, Wilson notes how Noah dotes on the swan, talking to her and sharing his thoughts with her. A few odd events almost convince Wilson that maybe this is indeed Allie reborn, but he always keeps these thoughts to himself. And all through these visits, Noah reminisces about his wife, while Wilson remembers his own first love Jane ...more This was my very first Nicholas Sparks book. I never had time nor made time for reading, other than educational reads for health and career. I decided to choose a book in the airport before boarding the plane. I figured it may keep my mind off of flying- I never in my life thought I would spend the next 3 days unable to put the book down. From that day on I continue to read Nicholas Sparks books. For me I find his books to be captivating, always drawing me in and keeping me there as I continue t This was my very first Nicholas Sparks book. I never had time nor made time for reading, other than educational reads for health and career. I decided to choose a book in the airport before boarding the plane. I figured it may keep my mind off of flying- I never in my life thought I would spend the next 3 days unable to put the book down. From that day on I continue to read Nicholas Sparks books. For me I find his books to be captivating, always drawing me in and keeping me there as I continue to be unable to put his books down. I truly enjoy his novels and I now enjoy reading for pleasure. I must admit his books make me cry, but I still love to read them! ...more \"How many people are ever given that chance? To have someone you love fall in love with you over and over?\" The book was not typical for me because I was used to read romantic stories about young or middle-aged people who haven't been married yet. But this story is about a married couple and at first I thought that I would get bored. Wilson wanted to prepare something special for his wife, Jane on their 30th anniversary but a week before the date their daughter announced that she was getting marr \"How many people are ever given that chance? To have someone you love fall in love with you over and over?\" The book was not typical for me because I was used to read romantic stories about young or middle-aged people who haven't been married yet. But this story is about a married couple and at first I thought that I would get bored. Wilson wanted to prepare something special for his wife, Jane on their 30th anniversary but a week before the date their daughter announced that she was getting married. Wilson's wife organized the wedding with all her heart according to her dreams. Wilson made a great progress during the year, prepared a great surprise and I was shocked by the fact that their daughter's wedding was fake! \"This was never my wedding, Mom. It's always been your wedding.\" The book has a perfect ending and, moreover, this is the first book of Sparks which I read which has a happy ending. Anyone, who knows what it feels like when relationship looses its magic through time, will enjoy the book. The book offers interesting and useful food for thought and makes you believe that any relationship can be saved if both parts are willing to cope with difficulties and work hard at it, instead than just giving up. Even stale and non-romantic people can change themselves for the sake of their love when they notice how much their part needs attention. It surprised me how touching and romantic relationship can be even if people have lived together more than I have lived at all (I'm 21 now!). I will definitely advise this book especially to married couples or people who need to refresh their relationship. I'm just glad I've read the book before being married because now I'm excited about wedding even more and I know that there is always a way to fix any trouble if you want to fight for your love and happiness! ...more Opening Line: \"Is it possible, I wonder, for a man to truely change?\" Although not the best book in Nicholas Sparks 's collection this is an easy and sweet (sometimes sickly) read without the usual gut-wrenching heartbreak at the end. I found it amazing and a credit to Sparks as a writer that he was able to craft an entire book out of the simple premise of a wedding and a few flashbacks. This is almost like a Seinfeld episode in that it's about nothing but still intriguing to watch unfold. And eve Opening Line: \"Is it possible, I wonder, for a man to truely change?\" Although not the best book in Nicholas Sparks 's collection this is an easy and sweet (sometimes sickly) read without the usual gut-wrenching heartbreak at the end. I found it amazing and a credit to Sparks as a writer that he was able to craft an entire book out of the simple premise of a wedding and a few flashbacks. This is almost like a Seinfeld episode in that it's about nothing but still intriguing to watch unfold. And even though he tries to be sneaky you'll have a pretty good idea early on of how it's going to play out. Despite the shining example set by his in-laws (Noah and Allie from The Notebook )THE WEDDING tells the story of middle aged workaholic lawyer Wilson Lewis and his year long romantic journey to rebuild his failing marriage. This is basically filler but it is good to hear from THE NOTEBOOK's Noah and Allie again. Wilson has spent too little time at home and too much time at the office during his marriage. Neglecting his wife and missing his children grow up. The crux comes when Wilson forgets their 29th wedding anniversary and after witnessing his wife's tears and subsequent departure is forced to face a painful truth. Jane has fallen out of love with him and it's entirely his fault. Unable to express his true feelings in words (although we get to hear all his internal dialogue and more than once I wanted to shout at him; tell your wife how you feel, don't just think it.) Wilson vows to make some serious changes and somehow get his wife fall in love with him again. Wilson spends the next year planning their 30th wedding anniversary. He also goes on a diet, learns to cook romantic dinners and begins really listening to what his wife has to say. As the day approaches their oldest daughter Anna suddenly announces that she's getting married and as a tribute to her parents wants to do it on their anniversary, overshadowing Wilson's secret plans. Jane however is excited and begins showing new interest in both her routine life and as Wilson helps with the hurried preparations, their long neglected marriage. Jane and Wilson's story is then told in a series of flashbacks as Wilson remembers what brought them together all those years ago. Throughout the arrangements Wilson visits Noah at Creekside retirement home updating the cantankerous old man on the preparations and getting advice on how to save his marriage. For me Noah was the best part of this book and I loved revisiting this spunky yet heartbroken character. He is absolutely endearing here, spending his days feeding and talking to a lone female swan who in herself becomes a character. With the memories of Noah and Allie as a guide and their old family home as a setting the wedding plans come together. But has Wilson been able to change himself and their relationship enough to see them through things afterwards? Will he be able to show her how much she has meant to him all these years? And will it be enough? ...more This book was different in two ways. First, it was written in one person's point of view, the male character. Second, it is not a story about two people meeting and falling in love. No. These couple met and married each other. And the story starts off thirty years later. This book was so adorable. I thought it was realistic and it had zero percent cheesiness. I learned a lot about marriage from Wilson, the husband. I learned that marriage is a battle everyday where you have to fight to keep the This book was different in two ways. First, it was written in one person's point of view, the male character. Second, it is not a story about two people meeting and falling in love. No. These couple met and married each other. And the story starts off thirty years later. This book was so adorable. I thought it was realistic and it had zero percent cheesiness. I learned a lot about marriage from Wilson, the husband. I learned that marriage is a battle everyday where you have to fight to keep the romance alive. I also learned that in order to keep your marriage strong, you have to appreciate, compliment and listen to your spouse. And always be there and make them know that you'll always be there for them. What else can I say about this book? I loved the surprise ending of course! Nicholas always writes the best conclusions. And I am proud to say that i knew what would happen even though it wasn't obvious. Still, i was totally surprised! I also learned that if you want to get your spouse the perfect present, you don't need to worry about the details because it'll come from the heart and you'll know what to get him/her. I thought the present Wilson got was perfectly thoughtful and romantic. All in all, it was good to read something different for a change. I would really love to see this turn into a movie though. Side note: I just opened my very own blog! I'd be so happy to see people reading my reviews and telling me what they think of them. Join me and let's talk books ;) Here's the link: reemalomari.wix.com/literature-blog My social media: Instagram: @reemobooks Twitter: @ReemoAlomari Email: reem.alomari@gmail.com Youtube: reemobooks ...more This is the second Nicholas Sparks book that I have read; the first being The Notebook. This is a follow up to that book focusing on one of Noah's daughters. It was a decent read but not quite as engaging as The Notebook. It could be the \"male perspective\" that comes across so clearly to me. However, that being said, I suppose as a married woman, I should be glad to have a closer look at the \"male perspective.\" I am getting used to Sparks' style of writing which I wouldn't say is quite chic lit. This is the second Nicholas Sparks book that I have read; the first being The Notebook. This is a follow up to that book focusing on one of Noah's daughters. It was a decent read but not quite as engaging as The Notebook. It could be the \"male perspective\" that comes across so clearly to me. However, that being said, I suppose as a married woman, I should be glad to have a closer look at the \"male perspective.\" I am getting used to Sparks' style of writing which I wouldn't say is quite chic lit. The story was a bit slow in the beginning but I really enjoyed the ending which turned out quite romantic. The book offers hope that marriages can be turned around for the better if a positive effort is put forth and both parties aren't quite ready to let go. ...more Most love stories happen before and end with marriage, and the story ends and they've supposedly lived happily ever after. This book, however, shows that even after the rocky path that follows marriage, there's still a loving ending. The concept of the book is so beautiful, but the way it was presented was very difficult to get into at first. I also found that after reading many of his books, they start to become very similar, and predictable. The story was incredibly heartfelt, nonetheless, and Most love stories happen before and end with marriage, and the story ends and they've supposedly lived happily ever after. This book, however, shows that even after the rocky path that follows marriage, there's still a loving ending. The concept of the book is so beautiful, but the way it was presented was very difficult to get into at first. I also found that after reading many of his books, they start to become very similar, and predictable. The story was incredibly heartfelt, nonetheless, and I was so touched. ...more What an amazing read, I enjoyed every page. Actually it will be really hard to rate this book as I feel I loved it but it wasn't as deep and tragically as most Spark's books usually are. I have been dying t read this book for years as I heard it was the only one with a HEA this author wrote. Well, I'm happy to tell you guys that's true. Not a single person dies in here which is usually how Spark's books go. This has pro's and con's. While I enjoyed everything being happy and nice, I missed those What an amazing read, I enjoyed every page. Actually it will be really hard to rate this book as I feel I loved it but it wasn't as deep and tragically as most Spark's books usually are. I have been dying t read this book for years as I heard it was the only one with a HEA this author wrote. Well, I'm happy to tell you guys that's true. Not a single person dies in here which is usually how Spark's books go. This has pro's and con's. While I enjoyed everything being happy and nice, I missed those deep feeling Sparks usually makes me feel with his books. But it was a nice change. I did loved it, and I definitely recommend it. In my case, I just prefer his usual style and that's what I will be looking forward in the future, I guess when it comes to NS I enjoyed being tortured, maybe he has changed me into a bit of a masochist,LOL. Another thing I adore about this author is the way he writes, so many descriptions you can't help but to feel part of the story. In this book we get to read about a couple who has been married for 30 years and while they had an amazing marriage, with time it has become nothing as it used to be. With this book you'll face a harsh reality and something almost most couples get to go through with time. It was so fascinating to see them fighting to stay together, to see the love the have for one anther and how even though with time a person can screw it over and over it's still possible to make things better. Good things come with sacrifice, but they are always worth it, we just have to fight for them. Sparks takes us to everyday situations and makes us analyze them and understand things we give for granted. There's no other author that has his effect on me. Moreover, THE NOTEBOOK has been an all time fav for me, and I loved to see some of the characters again. Great read. I'm not giving 5 stars to it because I enjoy his other type of books better but definitely a book I would recommend. ...more 4,8 Is this book a sequel to the Notebook? Because it makes references to the Notebook, but maybe he's just trying to get your interest piqued so that you want to go and find his other books and read. I loved this book. It was so cute. I want to find rose petals all throughout the house and find a cute dress and high heels. I don't even need to be picked up in the limo. I think a great romantic night planned would be absolutely incredible! I swooned when I read it. While I personally don't agree with Is this book a sequel to the Notebook? Because it makes references to the Notebook, but maybe he's just trying to get your interest piqued so that you want to go and find his other books and read. I loved this book. It was so cute. I want to find rose petals all throughout the house and find a cute dress and high heels. I don't even need to be picked up in the limo. I think a great romantic night planned would be absolutely incredible! I swooned when I read it. While I personally don't agree with renewing of vows, I think in this case they did a good job at it. To keep that big of a secret - pretty awesome. And not only was he trying to show her he had changed, he was also trying to make up for their actual wedding which wasn't at all what she wanted but she sacrificed for him. It was cute. And I'm really glad to say that my parents didn't do that lovey dovey stuff when I was a teenager - or as an adult - cuz I'm fairly certain that would creep me out. . . Just saying. ...more Okay so nobody died. Yay! Still, it was boring.It was basically this guy who was making calls the whole year to get things in order. I was waiting for a conflict but there was none whatsoever. That's a lot coming from someone who doesn't like conflict very much. It also got predictable halfway through the book. As in I knew, somehow, who the wedding was for. I think it was because she said her daughter would regret it if she didn't have a \"proper wedding\" ... but that's just me. The book was well Okay so nobody died. Yay! Still, it was boring.It was basically this guy who was making calls the whole year to get things in order. I was waiting for a conflict but there was none whatsoever. That's a lot coming from someone who doesn't like conflict very much. It also got predictable halfway through the book. As in I knew, somehow, who the wedding was for. I think it was because she said her daughter would regret it if she didn't have a \"proper wedding\" ... but that's just me. The book was well written as in it was easy to read so it was okay. My major issue is in the story. I see why most women would love this book (that may sound stereotypical but, hey ...). I mean, who wouldn't want to feel like a queen and have her husband court her again ... and over and over again? I'd love that too but I feel for a guy who is faithful to his wife and did his best to provide for his family but, apparently, is still \"majorly\" flawed because ... I dunno, he couldn't say \"I love you\" all the time because it wasn't in his nature. It seems a bit petty. If, for example, he brought her perfume for their anniversary, one that he let his secretary pick, would he have known that she felt that way? Would she have cried? Would she go to NY to be away on her own? Also, I'm not an expert on being a parent and in marital affairs but would a mother go to her kids about marital issues? Would a mother burden her children about it? Hey why don't I make my son the shock absorber, never mind that he'll surely pick my side and hate his father afterwards. Again, I'm no expert but I think I'd go to my friends. Or my siblings, even. There's another side to this so why lay blame? Maybe she was too busy tending to the kids too that when they left, she, herself, didn't know what to do with the two of them being alone. She did bury and busy herself in redecorating the house after their kids left, right? And they didn't say in the book that she asked him to go away on vacation or anything. Men can be dense. Don't get me wrong. I loved that they made the marriage work in the end. Or I should say HE did something to make it work in the end. But people say a relationship is always a two-way street ... ...more 2 stars is a bit harsh, I'd give it another half if I could. It's not that I didn't kind of enjoy this book, it's just that it seemed a little, okay a lot contrived. There is no way a man would ever behave this way...even a good and decent and worthwhile one. Even a romantic one. I just think books like this contribute to divorced women who sit at home reading sappy romances and wondering why they can't find a man like that. Give the guys a break. How does Nicholas Sparks come up with this stuff 2 stars is a bit harsh, I'd give it another half if I could. It's not that I didn't kind of enjoy this book, it's just that it seemed a little, okay a lot contrived. There is no way a man would ever behave this way...even a good and decent and worthwhile one. Even a romantic one. I just think books like this contribute to divorced women who sit at home reading sappy romances and wondering why they can't find a man like that. Give the guys a break. How does Nicholas Sparks come up with this stuff? It reminds me of a 30 Rock episode I saw a while back where they are trying to make an older Latina woman change her bad opinion of the villain in her favorite soap opera. So they write the script for him to become charming to the point of asking to see photos of the older heroine's grandchildren. Things like that just don't happen in real life. It was good for a laugh on a comedy show. Less good for a romance that's not trying to be funny. That's all. It was okay. Wouldn't recommend it, but also wouldn't judge you if you enjoyed it. ...more Audio book read by Tom Wopat This is a sequel to Sparks\u2019s incredibly popular The Notebook . This book focuses on Noah and Allie\u2019s oldest daughter, Jane, and her husband Wilson. After forgetting their anniversary, Wilson spends the next year trying to figure out how to make it up to Jane, with some sage advice from his father-in-law, Noah. But when their daughter announces she\u2019s getting married on their anniversary, all Wilson\u2019s plans are circumvented. I\u2019ve read a couple of books by Sparks. I actua Audio book read by Tom Wopat This is a sequel to Sparks\u2019s incredibly popular The Notebook . This book focuses on Noah and Allie\u2019s oldest daughter, Jane, and her husband Wilson. After forgetting their anniversary, Wilson spends the next year trying to figure out how to make it up to Jane, with some sage advice from his father-in-law, Noah. But when their daughter announces she\u2019s getting married on their anniversary, all Wilson\u2019s plans are circumvented. I\u2019ve read a couple of books by Sparks. I actually enjoyed one of them. But this one is maudlin, overwrought, over-written, and saccharine. I figured out the twist in the first chapter. I finished it only because it fulfilled several challenges. I listened to the first half on audio but read the last half of the book in one evening. Tom Wopat does a surprisingly good job of the audio. He even manages believable voices for the women. His performance earns a star. ...more Some of my friends here know how I feel about Mr. Sparks, and may wonder, \"why the hell is she trying another of his books?\" Well I ask myself the same question! However, I saw it on my shelf and the swans on the cover drew me. (Yes, sometimes I am easy). I blew off the dust (I've had it forever), and peeked at page one... 10 mins and 20 pages later I realized, \"Well, I 'spose I'm giving Ole Sparks a chance again\". If you are a fan of The Notebook, you may enjoy this sequel. Having been married f Some of my friends here know how I feel about Mr. Sparks, and may wonder, \"why the hell is she trying another of his books?\" Well I ask myself the same question! However, I saw it on my shelf and the swans on the cover drew me. (Yes, sometimes I am easy). I blew off the dust (I've had it forever), and peeked at page one... 10 mins and 20 pages later I realized, \"Well, I 'spose I'm giving Ole Sparks a chance again\". If you are a fan of The Notebook, you may enjoy this sequel. Having been married for double digit years myself, I identified with Jane and Wilson's feelings. After a period of time, you settle into a routine, and may start to realize, what happened? Towards the end, I kept thinking \"Ok, whos going to die? Who are you killing Sparks?\". But no! He got me this time. I was totally surprised at the twist at the end, and found I actually enjoyed it! Whatever, Mr. Sparks. Whatever, indeed. ...more Awesome!! I loved the book!! its one of the best romantic books i have ever read!! Though its a sequel to \"The Notebook\" , there is no compulsion that one shud that before reading this!! Frankly, i liked the sequel more than the prequel!! I am sure that people in their mid 40s wud def feel connected!! i have to admit that at first i didnt really want to read this book, for some reason a long time ago i bought it because i love nicholas sparks but the back description of the book bored me to death. Well, i'm glad I finally took the time to read it because i absolutely love it! and i mean LOVE it! It was better than the notebook. Definitely now in my tops of nicholas sparks and i've read them all. The Wedding is a story about a couple that has fallen out of love because the Husband chooses work i have to admit that at first i didnt really want to read this book, for some reason a long time ago i bought it because i love nicholas sparks but the back description of the book bored me to death. Well, i'm glad I finally took the time to read it because i absolutely love it! and i mean LOVE it! It was better than the notebook. Definitely now in my tops of nicholas sparks and i've read them all. The Wedding is a story about a couple that has fallen out of love because the Husband chooses work over his family. Jane (the daughter of Noah Calhoun) wishes her husband was more romantic just like her parents were, but Wilson (Jane's husband) always chose to work to provide for the family. Always at the office instead of childrens birthdays or sports games, they didnt even have a proper big wedding like she would have wanted they did a quick in front of the judge marriage so he could return to work. One year when their family is all grown up and moved out he forgets their anniversary. He realizes how much he loves his wife and is determined to make them fall back into love. Maybe i shouldnt say fall back into love because they've always loved each other, but they just sorta have grown apart maybe is what i should say. Well from the day he forgot their anniversary he promises to himself that he will do his best to make his wife love him again. He spends all year working on a project for her for the next anniversary, one that he knows will blow her away and show him how much he actually loves her. A little over a week before their anniversary he decides to take some time off as to get ready for his suprise when their oldest daughter announces to them that she is getting married and would like to do it the very next weekend so that Noah could attend (he's been having some strokes and one recently so she wanted to make sure that he could make it). Jane doesnt want her to get married in front of the judge and insist to her daughter that somehow they will throw her a proper ceremony if nothing else. So they both set on the quest of preparing a wedding in only a week. While they both have had time off Wilson does this with Jane that slowly make her fall back in love with him and he helps with the wedding plans. Some how they master a most beautiful wedding unlike any other in such a short amount of time with Wilson pulling strings with people. He celebrates they anniversary a night before the wedding since he figures they will not have time to do so on the day of their actual anniversary. And that is when you truly know he's paid attention to her and worked very hard for their anniversary and to prove that he loves her. But the most biggest surprise is the day of the wedding ;) ...more First off, I like Nicholas Sparks books usually. I know many people scoff off at his name. But amongst the books of his that I have read, I have liked a few while others have been average. If you are into travel, you should read \u2018Three weeks with my brother\u2019, I really liked it. About this book, it was good to begin with, and then it slowed down considerably in the middle. It\u2019s been quite some time since I picked up a Nicholas Sparks so I forgot how it read like. I have got so used to fast-paced First off, I like Nicholas Sparks books usually. I know many people scoff off at his name. But amongst the books of his that I have read, I have liked a few while others have been average. If you are into travel, you should read \u2018Three weeks with my brother\u2019, I really liked it. About this book, it was good to begin with, and then it slowed down considerably in the middle. It\u2019s been quite some time since I picked up a Nicholas Sparks so I forgot how it read like. I have got so used to fast-paced books now that it felt real slow and I did want to stop reading. But well, that quirk of mine of not wanting to leave books unfinished, kept me at it. And I am glad I did. This is a cute, emotional story about a husband wanting to make amends for being a lousy husband all his life. And if you are one of them, pick up this book now. It will teach you a few lessons. And no, it\u2019s not preachy. It\u2019s just a cute story. One thing I like about the author\u2019s books is the emphasis on feelings and relationships and how it tugs at the heart. When you reach the middle phase and feel like its chugging, I would ask you to go on, it pretty much makes it worth in the end. In all, a beautiful story of love and life. Pick it up when you are in the mood for a slow, relaxed read. ...more Nunta este o continuare a c\u0103r\u021bii Jurnalul unei iubiri, \u00een care ginerele lui Noah, Wilson Lewis \u00eencearc\u0103 s\u0103 rec\u00e2\u0219tige dragostea so\u021biei lui, dup\u0103 30 de ani de c\u0103snicie \u00een care s-a ocupat \u00een mare parte de carier\u0103. A\u0219a c\u0103 dup\u0103 ce uit\u0103 de aniversarea lor de 29 de ani, timp de un an \u00eentreg pune la cale o surpriz\u0103 pentru Jane, sper\u00e2nd c\u0103 aceasta \u00eel va ierta \u0219i c\u0103 dragostea lor va rena\u0219te. \u00cen paralele cu asta, Wilson \u00ee\u0219i reaminte\u0219te cum s-au cunoscut \u0219i multe momente importante de la \u00eenceputul rela\u021biei Nunta este o continuare a c\u0103r\u021bii Jurnalul unei iubiri, \u00een care ginerele lui Noah, Wilson Lewis \u00eencearc\u0103 s\u0103 rec\u00e2\u0219tige dragostea so\u021biei lui, dup\u0103 30 de ani de c\u0103snicie \u00een care s-a ocupat \u00een mare parte de carier\u0103. A\u0219a c\u0103 dup\u0103 ce uit\u0103 de aniversarea lor de 29 de ani, timp de un an \u00eentreg pune la cale o surpriz\u0103 pentru Jane, sper\u00e2nd c\u0103 aceasta \u00eel va ierta \u0219i c\u0103 dragostea lor va rena\u0219te. \u00cen paralele cu asta, Wilson \u00ee\u0219i reaminte\u0219te cum s-au cunoscut \u0219i multe momente importante de la \u00eenceputul rela\u021biei lui cu Jane. Sf\u00e2r\u0219itul este nea\u0219teptat \u0219i incredibil de romantic. ...more The novel was super slow compared to the pace of The Notebook, it's companion novel. I did enjoy the story up until about half way through when it really began to drag even slower than it had before. Normally, I am able to fly through his books within a couple days but, this book took me a little over a week to complete. I never DNF his books but, this one had me contemplating it. The characters were super well rounded and the story was written very well. i enjoyed this one! i love how he did all of the surprises in the end to her wife who does not know anything at all, thinking that this is for their daughter. this is also a story about a couple's struggle to save them and the love for each other really did save their marriage. this is so sweet. loving the story and the twist and turns towards the end of the book. I'm so surprised that I loved The Wedding. I have read many negative reviews about it so I wasn't expecting much. this is the 8th book I read by NS and he never disappointed me. or maybe it is just me loving anything with Mr. Sparks's name on its cover. anyway this book is so beautiful maybe unrealistic but I loved it. another great read from Nicholas Sparks. The story of a man who forgot his anniversary and used the whole next year to make up for it. I thought I knew the secret he was planning, and would have been disapointed if I was wrong. great love story all around. The Wedding (The Notebook, #2), Nicholas Sparks \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u0639\u0634\u0642 \u06af\u0645\u0634\u062f\u0647\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u0646\u06cc\u06a9\u0644\u0627\u0633 \u0627\u0633\u067e\u0627\u0631\u06a9\u0633\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0646\u0641\u06cc\u0633\u0647 \u0645\u0639\u062a\u06a9\u0641\u061b \u0648\u06cc\u0631\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0631: \u062d\u0645\u06cc\u062f\u0647 \u0631\u0633\u062a\u0645\u06cc\u061b \u0645\u0634\u062e\u0635\u0627\u062a \u0646\u0634\u0631: \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0646\u0634\u0631 \u0639\u0644\u0645\u060c 1383\u060c \u062f\u0631 358 \u0635\u060c \u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639: \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u06af\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0645\u0631\u06cc\u06a9\u0627\u06cc\u06cc Mais uma linda hist\u00f3ria t\u00e3o ao estilo de Nicholas Sparks! E claro que terminei com uma l\u00e1grima ao canto do olho... If you are looking for a book that will absolutely tug at your heartstrings until your heart is about to burst out of your chest then you have found the one. This book had me bawling by the end. And I don't cry when I read. Ever. So for this to make me absolutely lose it (and not the cute little sniffles kind of crying- the all out, don't look at me, kind of crying) is quite a feat. This is my first Nicholas Sparks read (although I have seen The Notebook about 1 million and 2 times) and I alread If you are looking for a book that will absolutely tug at your heartstrings until your heart is about to burst out of your chest then you have found the one. This book had me bawling by the end. And I don't cry when I read. Ever. So for this to make me absolutely lose it (and not the cute little sniffles kind of crying- the all out, don't look at me, kind of crying) is quite a feat. This is my first Nicholas Sparks read (although I have seen The Notebook about 1 million and 2 times) and I already know it will not be the last. At first, I was a little concerned because I had very high expectations for this book and it seemed to be starting off kind of slow. Once I got a few chapters in though I couldn't stop. I ended up reading almost the entire book in my flight from SLC to Washington D.C. and then finished once I got to my hotel room. The Wedding absolutely exceeded my expectations because it really is a different kind of love story. Especially with it being in connection with The Notebook. This is not a story about that fiery passionate love of two people who can't stand to be apart no matter what. No, this is a story about a flawed man who has realized his neglect and only wants to right his wrongs and make up for those lost years. A story about a man who decides he wants to make his wife fall in love with him all over again. And let met tell you, he KILLS it. Knocks it out of the park. 10 out of 10 and 5 stars. My absolute favorite thing about this book is the message that comes across. Love is not easy. You can be in love with someone to the moon and back but a relationship still takes work. It takes communication and putting yourself out there. To love is natural, to show your love is a more difficult task. \"But love, I've come to understand, is more than three words mumbled before bedtime. Love is sustained by action, a pattern of devotion in the things we do for each other every day\" {pg. 65} I absolutely recommend this book and for sure will be reading it again in the future. ...more<---C>Nicholas Sparks</---C>", "Title": "The Wedding"},
