{"Comments": "<+++>Magical Thinking: True Stories</+++>Shameless.<---F> Unabashed</---F>. He just does not care whether you like him or not. These are what make Augusten Burrough's memoirs very different from what I've read so far. He does not give an eff when he recounts how many Catholic gay priests he had sex with. He tells each sexual encounter like he is telling them to his gay close friend inside an enclosed room. All the details,<---M> including the unprintables</---M>, are mentioned and their intimate conversations in verbatim. This is my fifth book by Burroughs. I use Shameless. Unabashed. He just does not care whether you like him or not. These are what make Augusten Burrough's memoirs very different from what I've read so far. He does not give an eff when he recounts how many Catholic gay priests he had sex with. He tells each sexual encounter like he is telling them to his gay close friend inside an enclosed room. All the details, including the unprintables, are mentioned and their intimate conversations in verbatim. This is my fifth book by Burroughs. I used to hate him: Running With Scissors (<---B>2 stars</---B>); Wolf at My Table (1 star) and You Better Not Cry (2 stars). I did not like his hysterics and his stories seemed to be insensitive to the people he grew up with. I mean why wash your laundry in public when you can do it in private? It was only a couple of months back when I began to understand his style, since it seems to be consistent throughout all his works. This was when I read Dry (3 stars) and his sensitive gay side comes out when he said inside the gay bar: \"this place is full of naked lonely souls.\" So, in this book, when he said \"I am not normal in anyway.\" I believed him. He is hysterical. He is shameless. He does not fear anyone. He is what he is. So, if you don't like him, don't buy and read his books. Which for me is originality. The guy has the balls to show to the world who he is. He knows that he is read mostly by gay guys and he is not ashamed that he gets fan mails with gay guys sending him pictures of their penis. He was fascinated though, when old women recognized him on the street and told him that they've read his works. He told a couple of stories about those encounters and I just laughed out loud this morning. What am I doing reading all these books by Burroughs? Ah, don't entertain the idea that I am gay. This is my last book by him in my possession and I have no plan to buy and read his other works. I am done with Burroughs. I just wanted to heal my hatred for him and there was no other way I could do that but know more about him. So, I read these two other books, Dry and Magical Thinking. My hatred for him used to be as high as the sky and had I stopped there, my soul would not be at peace. I don't want to have that hate in my heart when I die. Lesson: After a book and you hate a certain author, read more books by him/her. Reading books by a certain author gives you more idea of who he/she is as a person. Chances are, you'll accept and love him/her just the same. Then you don't have that hate in your heart anymore. Only love resides in your heart. I love the fact that I now understand <---A>Augusten Burroughs</---A>. ...more A few years ago I read Running with Scissors and found it over-the-top but tolerable. Then I read the sequel ( Dry ) and thought it was okay. Last year, I read Sellevision and detested it, swearing off Burroughs forever. But then I realized something: Burroughs is not a fiction writer \u2013 he\u2019s a memoirist. So I decided to give Magical Thinking a chance because Burroughs was going back to his strength, and because rather than a full-length memoir, Magical Thinking is a series of short snippets of his A few years ago I read Running with Scissors and found it over-the-top but tolerable. Then I read the sequel ( Dry ) and thought it was okay. Last year, I read Sellevision and detested it, swearing off Burroughs forever. But then I realized something: Burroughs is not a fiction writer \u2013 he\u2019s a memoirist. So I decided to give Magical Thinking a chance because Burroughs was going back to his strength, and because rather than a full-length memoir, Magical Thinking is a series of short snippets of his life. Overall, I found it uneven. There are several snippets that are hysterical (my favorite being \u201cVanderbilt Genes\u201d), but there a number that are fairly uninteresting. Burroughs\u2019 trademark wit is still here, so I\u2019m sure fans of Burroughs will like this very much. My biggest problem is, as I have written elsewhere, Burroughs is a poor man\u2019s David Sedaris \u2013 the same crazy life stories flush with humor \u2013 but Burroughs lacks likability, and he admits that. Burroughs admits that he\u2019s a terrible person with lots of issues, so the only thing that I can think of that makes him so popular is that he\u2019s so open to revealing his terrible side to everyone it\u2019s captivating in a horrible way. It\u2019s like watching a train wreck happen. If you\u2019re into keeping up with what stupid thing Britney Spears did this week, you\u2019ll probably enjoy the Burroughs memoirs, too. I think this one is the last one for me, thanks. ...more Hmmm something happened after I read the Chapter \"The Rat Thing\". I struggled. A lot. I found myself unable to connect with him anymore. I couldn't laugh anymore because I thought he was just plain cruel most of the time whether it be to animals, children or adults. Now I havent read Running with Scissors or Dry yet but I do understand that he had a very screwed up childhood...but that fact still doesnt make me like the fact that he is so incredibly self-absorbed and mean (even if he does have h Hmmm something happened after I read the Chapter \"The Rat Thing\". I struggled. A lot. I found myself unable to connect with him anymore. I couldn't laugh anymore because I thought he was just plain cruel most of the time whether it be to animals, children or adults. Now I havent read Running with Scissors or Dry yet but I do understand that he had a very screwed up childhood...but that fact still doesnt make me like the fact that he is so incredibly self-absorbed and mean (even if he does have his guilty moments - and I do have a sense of humour - honest!)...the backcover blurb says \"Augusten Burroughs gives voice to the thoughts we all have but dare not mention\" - ummm nope not me. I have a lot of trouble laughing at other peoples pain, Augusten seems to revel in it and make it a source of his happiness. Bleh. ...more Augusten Burroughs is an immature jerk that I wouldn\u2019t give the time of day. I found nothing nothing charming about Magical Thinking and while I was reading it all I could think was that he represents the unshaven underarm of society \u2013 the type of person who finds everything wrong with the world and the slice of pie he has been delivered but fails to notice the good things like the fact that he is eating pie. Why am I so disgusted by him? This is the type of guy that steps on a child\u2019s hand in a Augusten Burroughs is an immature jerk that I wouldn\u2019t give the time of day. I found nothing nothing charming about Magical Thinking and while I was reading it all I could think was that he represents the unshaven underarm of society \u2013 the type of person who finds everything wrong with the world and the slice of pie he has been delivered but fails to notice the good things like the fact that he is eating pie. Why am I so disgusted by him? This is the type of guy that steps on a child\u2019s hand in a store and instead of comforting the child, he slips away unnoticed because the child has a delay in her cry response that gives him the opportune amount of time to flee the scene \u2013 and then he writes a story about it that makes him pays his bills. That is just one of the examples of the cynical \u201cvoices of the new century,\u201d to quote the cover\u2019s excerpt from USA Today, yeah, the USA Today. The only reason I finished Magical Thinking was that I needed something to occupy my time in the bathroom. ...more The government called and said we can't afford David Sedaris anymore. It's the recession, y'know. Guess it's the poorest man's David Sedaris: Augusten Burroughs. Burroughs would be better if he'd at least admit he's a bitchy gay man instead of trying to tack on \"But everybody is okay\" drivel messages at the end of his bitchiness. He reminds me of guys I know who make up obviously bullshit stories made more annoying by the obvious fact they expect you are impressed by it (I'm not). Only vaguely a The government called and said we can't afford David Sedaris anymore. It's the recession, y'know. Guess it's the poorest man's David Sedaris: Augusten Burroughs. Burroughs would be better if he'd at least admit he's a bitchy gay man instead of trying to tack on \"But everybody is okay\" drivel messages at the end of his bitchiness. He reminds me of guys I know who make up obviously bullshit stories made more annoying by the obvious fact they expect you are impressed by it (I'm not). Only vaguely amusing... (Or people who tack on \"Now don't get offended\" before being absolutely offensive dicks...) I couldn't help but remember all of Bill Hicks' anti-advertising people bits when reading this. Wonder what Hicks would have made of Don Draper. I dig how immoral and ethical Draper is, and how he relates advertising to what people think everybody else thinks and try to conform to that view (however, I'm never impressed by his epiphanies. I don't care about selling things catchily). That's Burrough's problem. Not that he's good enough for me to bother with. I only read this 'cause it was a Christmas prezzie. (Christmas rolls around once a year and I'm gonna get more books I feel obligated to read... I'd rather read my own crap.) ...more Nice Augusten Burroughs book. My favorite after Dry. 03/06/2014 RE-READ I am going to describe each of these stories for you in a Victorian Chapter Title. Because it's fun. :) 1.) Commercial Break. In Which Young Augusten Is Selected to Be In a Tang Commercial, But Discovers He is Horrible At Acting. 2.) Vanderbilt Genes. In Which Young Augusten Discovers What He's Suspected All Along \u2013 His Parents Aren't Really His Parents but Instead He Is A Lost Vanderbilt Child, Heir to Millions. 3.) Transfixed by Transsexuals. In Which Augusten Explains His Obses 03/06/2014 RE-READ I am going to describe each of these stories for you in a Victorian Chapter Title. Because it's fun. :) 1.) Commercial Break. In Which Young Augusten Is Selected to Be In a Tang Commercial, But Discovers He is Horrible At Acting. 2.) Vanderbilt Genes. In Which Young Augusten Discovers What He's Suspected All Along \u2013 His Parents Aren't Really His Parents but Instead He Is A Lost Vanderbilt Child, Heir to Millions. 3.) Transfixed by Transsexuals. In Which Augusten Explains His Obsession with Transsexuals, Which Began in the Fourth Grade. 4.) Model Behavior. In Which Augusten Tells Us About Modeling School. 5.) I Dated An Undertaker. (Self-explanatory) 6.) And Now a Word From Our Sponsor. In Which Augusten Talks About His Hair, Or Lack Thereof. 7.) The Rat/Thing. In Which Augusten Kills a Mouse. Horrifying. I can't read this. Animal cruelty. 8.) Debby's Requirements. In Which Augusten Hires a Pscyho Maid. Psycho maid vs. psycho Augusten. Hilariously funny story. The absolute best story of the whole collection. 9.) Roof Work. In Which Augusten Pierces a Cyst in his Mouth, and Ends Up Having Dental Surgery. 10.) Beating Raoul. In Which Augusten Dates a Perfect Man Who Turns Out to Be Not So Perfect. 11.) Holy Blow Job. In Which Augusten Recalls the Three Separate Occasions in Which a Priest has Sucked him Off. Trigger warning: one is when he was 14. 12.) Mark the Shrink. Augusten dates a shrink and becomes neurotic. At the end of the story the shrink kills himself. 13.) Telemarketing Revenge. In Which Augusten F*cks Around with Telemarketers. 14.) My Last First Date. In Which Augusten Goes on a Great Date. 15.) The Schnauzer. In Which Augusten is in Love with the Guy in the Previous Story. 16.) Key Worst. In Which Augusten Travels to Key West, and Hates It. 17.) Ass Burger. In Which Augusten Discusses his Genius Brother Who Has Asperger's Syndrome. 18.) Life Cycle of the North American Opossum. In Which Augusten Struggles with a Possum that Likes to Eat His Dog's Excrement. 19.) Cunnilingusville. In Which Augusten Makes Observations about the Amish. 20.) I Kid You Not. In Which Augusten Explains Why He Will Never Have Children. 21.) I'm Gonna Live Forever. In Which Augusten Explains What It's Like to Be A Famous Author. 22.) Total Turnaround. In Which Augusten Describes his Love for His Boyfriend. 23.) Roid Rage. In Which Augusten Explains Why He Takes Steroids and How They Affect Him. 24.) Magical Thinking. In Which Augusten Uses the Powers of His Mind to Kill A Woman, Get a Boyfriend, and Become a Nationally Acclaimed Author. 25.) Puff Derby. In Which Augusten Goes to the Kentucky Derby and Meets Puff Daddy. 26.) Meanwhile, Back At the Ranch. In Which Augusten and his Boyfriend Shop for a Summer Home. 27.) Up the Escalator. In Which Augusten Goes to Kmart to Buy Dennis an Iron, and Realizes He Is Becoming Domesticated. This book is funny. Actually, it is very funny. I laughed out loud a lot. However, and this is worth noting, this book is very mean. Very mean. In this book, Burroughs makes fun of people with Down's Syndrome. He talks about priests giving him blowjobs (one when he was 14). He calls women \"bitch\" and \"cunt.\" He calls other gay men \"fag.\" He makes fun of people for being retarded, fat, short, ugly, and for having a tiny penis. It's also fair warning for parents who read this book that Burroughs actively dislikes children. He even has a whole chapter devoted to this topic. On one occasion he accidentally steps on a baby's hand (age 1 1/2, about) and instead of apologizing to the parent, walks away quickly and pretends he did nothing. The child then gets scolded for crying. Burroughs thinks this is hilarious. On another occasion, he threatens a kid who has been kicking him and stepping on his toes. He calls her a cocksucker and threatens to push her mother into the ocean, hurt her daddy, and become her new daddy. Now, I know I'm making out Burroughs to be some kind of monster. And he is, definitely, a jerk. But his ability to be a jerk and say whatever comes into his head and do things that normal people only fantasize about saying but would never really say is why he's so funny and why people read his books. It's fair to note that because of his horrendous childhood (see my review of RUNNING WITH SCISSORS for more details) Burroughs is deadened to any sense of kindness, generosity, compassion, or pity. He only looks out for himself, number one. He is fiercely loyal and protective of his boyfriend, but again, I believe that is because his boyfriend makes him happy, and is therefore valuable to Burroughs. Burroughs is vain, selfish, self-centered, materialistic and shallow. And he freely admits these things and makes fun of himself for them. However, after reading this book, even if you laugh a lot, you would never, ever want to be his friend because you know how he thinks and talks about people. If you are going to read an Augusten Burroughs book, I would suggest DRY. In DRY, Burroughs portrays himself as more human, with feelings and struggles. He really allows you into his mind and even though he's still got his edge, he's a bit vulnerable and more of a human being. In this book he is more or less a caricature of himself. SAMPLE: I have always loved eavesdropping. But even more, I love knowing that somebody is eavesdropping on my own conversation. My former art director, Greer, and I had a lot of fun playing games with people. We'd be traveling on business, off to L.A. to shoot a commercial, and we'd be sitting near the gate waiting for our flight and chatting. Then we would become aware that somebody else was listening, so I would say, \"Honey, tell me you arranged for your parents to stay with the baby.\" And she would feign horror. \"Oh my fucking God, I totally forgot. The baby is alone. Shit. Do you think she can last on her own for two days?\" And I would reply, \"Well, I guess. Babies are supposed to be pretty durable.\" ...more I just recently got out of the shower. No lie. The shower came after I cleaned the shower but, get this, before I took a bubble bath. Now what sense does that make? Who takes a bath and THEN gives the bathtub a deep scrubbing? ... I've done lots of things in odd orders. I think hot tea in the summer and down gallons of iced tea in the winter. Sometimes I drink Rockstar or Monster or Go Girl\u2122 immediately before going to sleep. Earlier today, at the grocery store, I went to the frozen section *first* I just recently got out of the shower. No lie. The shower came after I cleaned the shower but, get this, before I took a bubble bath. Now what sense does that make? Who takes a bath and THEN gives the bathtub a deep scrubbing? ... I've done lots of things in odd orders. I think hot tea in the summer and down gallons of iced tea in the winter. Sometimes I drink Rockstar or Monster or Go Girl\u2122 immediately before going to sleep. Earlier today, at the grocery store, I went to the frozen section *first*, then proceeded to shop for the items which didn't need to be refrigerated. Then I came home and took my pork chops out of the package and seasoned them, the whole time knowing damn well that I had no clean pan that I was willing to cook said pork chops on. So I had to put the pork chops back in the fridge, wash some dishes, then pull them back out when they were ready to go. Sometimes I take a shower, get dressed, then decide that I want to shave. Who does that? Honestly... So what do I do? I take off my shirt, then shave, then put back on the shirt. Then remember that my shirt is wrinkled so I have to take my shirt back off to iron it. Yesterday (meaning Sunday since I haven't gone to sleep yet), I was at Hina's when this incredibly attractive girl, with a very loud green, yellow and silver shirt and jean shorts was in there. I briefly considered asking her for her number before I asked her for her name. Then I realized that this made absolutely NO sense. I did ask her for her name, though. Steve thinks I should have asked her for coffee (the irony of that being that we were in a Tea store). --- I read Dry before Running with Scissors, and you would have thought that I would have learned my lesson a second time through. I didn't realize that Dry was written AFTER Running with Scissors until after I read the latter. If you've been keeping track, I finished Possible Side Effects last week and moved onto Magical Thinking a few days ago. And, again, it didn't cross my mind one bit to ask myself, \"which novel came first?\" In this case, however, it worked out well. I would not have given PSE 3 stars, I would have given it two, and this memoir three. But two straight weeks of Augusten Burrough's short stories (with D\u014dgen sandwiched in between) is two straight weeks too many. PSE basically consists of rejected stories from MT. MT is the real shit. Debby's Requirements, Beating Raoul, and Model Behavior *are* the book. Granted, Possible Side Effects contains more funny stories, the best stories in MT are better than the best stories in PSE. But MT kinda tapers off - after he talks about his first date with Dennis, the book spirals into constantly talking about Dennis, which left me pretty tired. And after reading 193 pages today, that's too much time to spend in one day about his boyfriend. Maybe Augusten Burroughs and I think the same way. Any normal author would have instantly recognized that some 6-8 straight chapters of Dennis after all the good stories (regardless of the somewhat chronological order of the chapters) made no sense. Just like me baking dessert before making dinner. // ...more I really love this book. Because the stories are short, pretty quick reads, it's great for those times when you want something to read but have a lot of distractions around. That's why I took it to the DMV with me a few weeks ago when I was getting my driver's license renewed. It was a long wait, and the lobby was packed with all kinds of cranky people and their unruly kids. As I read about Burroughs' experiences dating an undertaker, getting blowjobs by priests and dealing with a psychotic hous I really love this book. Because the stories are short, pretty quick reads, it's great for those times when you want something to read but have a lot of distractions around. That's why I took it to the DMV with me a few weeks ago when I was getting my driver's license renewed. It was a long wait, and the lobby was packed with all kinds of cranky people and their unruly kids. As I read about Burroughs' experiences dating an undertaker, getting blowjobs by priests and dealing with a psychotic housekeeper, I kept bursting out laughing. At one point, I might have even cried. It definitely made the hellish DMV experience a lot more bearable. ...more In the past, I have only listed books on Goodreads that I have enjoyed and would recommend. So this is my first negative rating/review. Today, a friend put Magical Thinking in her TO READ pile. I commented that I did not want her to read it because in one of AB's essays, he describes wishing a boss dead (the origination of the title) and incredibly goes on to gleefully reveal that she did die after hoping it would happen. This boss of his was also a Creative Director of mine at a different ad ag In the past, I have only listed books on Goodreads that I have enjoyed and would recommend. So this is my first negative rating/review. Today, a friend put Magical Thinking in her TO READ pile. I commented that I did not want her to read it because in one of AB's essays, he describes wishing a boss dead (the origination of the title) and incredibly goes on to gleefully reveal that she did die after hoping it would happen. This boss of his was also a Creative Director of mine at a different ad agency----a mentor, a friend, a guest at my wedding. When she died, she left a husband, an eleven-year-old daughter, and all of the friends that she had \"mothered.\" She was a quirky, interesting, wonderful person whose death did not deserve to be fodder for this poor man's Sedaris. When I negatively commented on the book as it was listed on my pal's page, Goodreads removed the comment. I have no idea why. If Augusten Burroughs can present his sullen version of the truth (sorry he hated \"Charlotte\"; maybe there was a reason she disliked him), then so can I. Yes, this is why I hated the book. I think that's a good enough reason. And in this forum, shouldn't this comment be allowed to stand? ...more Augusten Burroughs \u00e9 um dos meus escritores favoritos, n\u00e3o s\u00f3 porque escreve bem, mas especialmente porque \u00e9 um escritor que escreve sobre si pr\u00f3prio. Ora, e n\u00e3o sendo eu um escritor, sempre preferi nos meus escritos, escrever sobre a minha pessoa do que ficcionar uma hist\u00f3ria. E como Burroghs consegue transformar uma s\u00e9rie de recorda\u00e7\u00f5es da sua vida, em pequenos epis\u00f3dios, plenos de humor e sarcasmo \u00e9 totalmente vis\u00edvel neste seu \u201cPensamento M\u00e1gico\u201d. E, \u00e9 neste livro que ele fala abertamente e de Augusten Burroughs \u00e9 um dos meus escritores favoritos, n\u00e3o s\u00f3 porque escreve bem, mas especialmente porque \u00e9 um escritor que escreve sobre si pr\u00f3prio. Ora, e n\u00e3o sendo eu um escritor, sempre preferi nos meus escritos, escrever sobre a minha pessoa do que ficcionar uma hist\u00f3ria. E como Burroghs consegue transformar uma s\u00e9rie de recorda\u00e7\u00f5es da sua vida, em pequenos epis\u00f3dios, plenos de humor e sarcasmo \u00e9 totalmente vis\u00edvel neste seu \u201cPensamento M\u00e1gico\u201d. E, \u00e9 neste livro que ele fala abertamente e de uma maneira muito bela do seu relacionamento de muitos anos com o seu companheiro, Dennis. \u00c9 j\u00e1 o quarto livro que leio deste autor e todos eles autobiogr\u00e1ficos: \u201cCorrer com tesouras\u201d, \u201cA Seco\u201d, \u201cEfeitos Secund\u00e1rios\u201d, todos eles e por ordem cronol\u00f3gica falam de circunst\u00e2ncias especiais da sua vida, e agora neste quarto, ele prefere ir falando de assuntos n\u00e3o t\u00e3o espec\u00edficos, mas todos eles definidores de um modo de ser e de um modo de vida ...more After enjoying Burrough's bitchy humor for a few chapters, I began to find the stories lacking in any redeeming qualities. They were just mean and bitchy rather than insightful and bitchy. I always appreciate a self-aware narrator, but although Burrough's is admirably self-aware and vulnerable, he is profoundly unhealthy in his thinking and behavior. I haven't read his autobiography, \"Running With Scissors,\" so I can't fill in the background of his frequent references to a terribly abusive upbri After enjoying Burrough's bitchy humor for a few chapters, I began to find the stories lacking in any redeeming qualities. They were just mean and bitchy rather than insightful and bitchy. I always appreciate a self-aware narrator, but although Burrough's is admirably self-aware and vulnerable, he is profoundly unhealthy in his thinking and behavior. I haven't read his autobiography, \"Running With Scissors,\" so I can't fill in the background of his frequent references to a terribly abusive upbringing. What I eventually realized is that in Burroughs I was hoping to find another David Sedaris -- a funny, bitter, bitchy gay man with a keen memory and scathing attention to detail but with an evident heart and soul. Burroughs is not Sedaris. He's a nasty man I chose not to spend any more time with after the first 7 or 8 chapters. I appreciate hyperbole and use it a lot in my own writing, but Burrough's hyperbolic statements just seem inflammatory in an adolescent and obnoxious way. The chapter on killing the mouse in his bathtub totally lacked a point -- and the second half of the book badly needed an editorial hand. I have the feeling that this book got a fairly free editorial pass after the success of \"Running With Scissors.\" It is very badly organized, and the structure of the essays gets sloppier and sloppier as the book wears on. A few fabulous laugh lines and insights. ...more I got this book on a whim after reading all it's praise on the front cover. I mean 237 positive critiques from the worlds most reputable sources can't be all wrong, can they? Besides, I love David Sedaris, and out of the 237 reviews, 235 of them had a fond comparison. One of the things that gets under my skin is the way he approaches his homosexuality. It defines him. And he comes across as saying, \"I don't want to be defined by my homosexuality, but let me tell you about the catholic priests I'v I got this book on a whim after reading all it's praise on the front cover. I mean 237 positive critiques from the worlds most reputable sources can't be all wrong, can they? Besides, I love David Sedaris, and out of the 237 reviews, 235 of them had a fond comparison. One of the things that gets under my skin is the way he approaches his homosexuality. It defines him. And he comes across as saying, \"I don't want to be defined by my homosexuality, but let me tell you about the catholic priests I've seduced,\" or \"my boyfriend likes big black men with tight butts...\" I'm toning it WAY down, and the list goes WAY on... David Sedaris is gay too, but I didn't feel that in his writing it defined who he was. I don't walk away from David's book saying, \"memoirs of a gay man,\" just like if I ever write I would hope people walked away with more than, \"*sigh* another straight man's memoirs...\" Not that there weren't funny anecdotes in here. The \"rat thing\" was great, and I loved the episode with his cleaning lady. But they weren't enough to elevate the book above, \"it was ok.\" ...more So Anthony bought me this book last weekend and I finished it in 3 days. It's a collection of his essays, much like the style of David Sedaris. And just like David Sedaris, only a couple of these essays are \"laugh out loud\" funny. The first 5 essays feel like he's just trying to fill space in the book with nonsense \"what if\" stories that are obviously all taking place in his head. This led me constantly think, \"I thought this was a memoir based on things that actually take place.\" But again, I'm u So Anthony bought me this book last weekend and I finished it in 3 days. It's a collection of his essays, much like the style of David Sedaris. And just like David Sedaris, only a couple of these essays are \"laugh out loud\" funny. The first 5 essays feel like he's just trying to fill space in the book with nonsense \"what if\" stories that are obviously all taking place in his head. This led me constantly think, \"I thought this was a memoir based on things that actually take place.\" But again, I'm uber critical because I get bored easily and need to be constantly entertained. I would say that my favorite essays (which actually did make me laugh) were Beating Raoul, which is about a \"almost-perfect\" date (read to find out why I used the words almost-perfect\") and I'm Gonna Live Forever which is about Burroughs' experiences with new found fame in New York City. Overall Grade: B+ ...more OK, this was funny and weird, like all his stuff, but I like him best when he has an actual story to tell, like in Dry or Running with Scissors. This collection is a lot like Possible Side Effects in its randomness. I find myself thinking, how does this guy keep convincing people to publish all these amusing but basically pointless stories? And can I have the phone number of those people? I too have lots of pointless stories and would love to make some money off of them. I enjoyed this but I thi OK, this was funny and weird, like all his stuff, but I like him best when he has an actual story to tell, like in Dry or Running with Scissors. This collection is a lot like Possible Side Effects in its randomness. I find myself thinking, how does this guy keep convincing people to publish all these amusing but basically pointless stories? And can I have the phone number of those people? I too have lots of pointless stories and would love to make some money off of them. I enjoyed this but I think I'm boycotting Burroughs until he comes out with an actual cohesive story again. I feel like I've heard all he has to say. I'll summarize for you: he's gay and had a bad childhood. Ha ha!The End. ...more Amusing enough to make me laugh out loud a few times. It doesn't get five stars because Burroughs is amusing but not endearing. And he made a few typos and can't seem to get his facts straight (did he start working in advertising when he was 18 or 19? does he use magical thinking to keep planes aloft or not?). Sooo...four stars. A solid collection of humorous stories, with a smattering of heartfelt and touching stories to boot. Burroughs is no David Sedaris, but he is certainly an enjoyable comedic author. I didn't read the whole thing--only to the essay where he writes about how he tortured a rat. I got so mad I tore the pages out of the book then tossed the book into the first trash can I found. Obnoxious but compulsively readable. Burroughs is pretty damn funny when he's not being an ass. Author Augusten Burroughs has hit a home run again in this funny, sometimes acerbic collection of true anecdotes that reveals the dark thoughts we all sometimes have, and then carries them out to their seemingly insane conclusions...but with wit and that satirical twist. These snippets are not presented in any particular chronological order, but begin in childhood, with memories about a Tang commercial, and lead us through the panicky drinking days and the one-night stands. One of my favorites is Author Augusten Burroughs has hit a home run again in this funny, sometimes acerbic collection of true anecdotes that reveals the dark thoughts we all sometimes have, and then carries them out to their seemingly insane conclusions...but with wit and that satirical twist. These snippets are not presented in any particular chronological order, but begin in childhood, with memories about a Tang commercial, and lead us through the panicky drinking days and the one-night stands. One of my favorites is the chapter about a rat he finds in the bathtub in the middle of the night, and the panic that ensues. Described beautifully in this excerpt: \"The fact was: if a rat/thing managed to claw its way out of my tub and enter the main area of the studio apartment, I would never be able to locate it. Everywhere there were mounds of foreign magazines, month-old newspapers, a thousand or more empty sixteen-ounce beer cans. I happened to live in squalor that was more than four-feet deep throughout the apartment. If the rat/thing made it into my debris field, it could easily make a nest for itself under the bed in an old aluminum beef vindaloo container or it could simply die beneath an old copy of Italian Vogue. It could die and it could rot.\" He then creates a scenario in which he quests for a way to eradicate the rat that had me rolling around with laughter, imagining myself in a similar situation. And then there's the chapter on telemarketers, and how they call numerous times at night and repeatedly, with the \"frequent urgency of dumped boyfriends.\" Now who hasn't wanted to seek revenge on them? Well, read on and learn.... There are thoughts about almost anything that may have crossed your mind, but that you were afraid to articulate. This author crams \"<+++>Magical Thinking: True Stories</+++>\" with all of those thoughts and more. As I turned the final, very satisfying page, I wanted \"seconds.\" But instead, I'll just have to occasionally pick it up again and savor the moments. Five happy stars for this one! ...more Funny that he refers to Joan Didion in this book, as she had a \"Magical Thinking\" book too. It was funny. Not nearly as funny as the cover review blurb from USA today makes it out to be; not truly necessary to get the tissue box out. Is sex all that important? Painful? How many times do breast implants have to be mentioned, and why would a gay man care so much about them? It was still a funny read with more than slapstick, an apt commentary on a lot of twisted garbage in society, and succeeds in t Funny that he refers to Joan Didion in this book, as she had a \"Magical Thinking\" book too. It was funny. Not nearly as funny as the cover review blurb from USA today makes it out to be; not truly necessary to get the tissue box out. Is sex all that important? Painful? How many times do breast implants have to be mentioned, and why would a gay man care so much about them? It was still a funny read with more than slapstick, an apt commentary on a lot of twisted garbage in society, and succeeds in threading a story through seemingly disparate essays. Some essays do seem to reintroduce material you've seen before. Friend Suzanne is redescribed in such a way that makes me think the editing wasn't fully up to snuff. After a childhood/20's like his, even what's normal and mundane must be viewed from a distance, and maybe that's the humor. You get to see everything like an alien visiting earth, because you are. Separating the book from the man, it is amazing that someone even survived half the things Burroughs talks about. Who would you be if you'd grown up in his (size 13) shoes? Who knew that Catholic priests could be so twisted? (Many of us.) And in spite of the focus on differences, we all share a lot of the human experience: troublesome landlords, psychos on the dating scene, crazy relatives, bad decisions, people that drop you for no reason at all, the amazing indignance of so many at so little, stress over age and differential age, the fact that a lot of people are trying to hide something but it slips out eventually. I'm glad he decided to start writing, but I'll still be drinking Dr Pepper. ...more My favorite part of the book, and some of the most profound and prophetic writing ever: \"The truth is, Dennis has no bad qualities and no faults. When he's working late and I'm alone, or sometimes when we're in bed together, the lights off, I try to make even a small list in my mind of his faults: Things I Put Up With Out of Love. But I haven't been able to think of a single thing that I am not able to first overlook and then come to cherish. Even the fact that he sometimes loses things has led t My favorite part of the book, and some of the most profound and prophetic writing ever: \"The truth is, Dennis has no bad qualities and no faults. When he's working late and I'm alone, or sometimes when we're in bed together, the lights off, I try to make even a small list in my mind of his faults: Things I Put Up With Out of Love. But I haven't been able to think of a single thing that I am not able to first overlook and then come to cherish. Even the fact that he sometimes loses things has led to a treasured nickname: Mittenclips. Because sometimes he misplaces things: keys, his wallet, our car once. But his face, when he sees that he's done this--where are my keys?--it's the most crestfallen face, and I tell him, \" Have you checked the pockets on that jacket you wore last night?\" And I check the bathroom and the floor under the sofa and all the unlikely but possible places for lost things to be. And we always, always manage to find whatever was missing. Unconditional love. That's what this is. I love him, as is, fully. I've had to stop arm wrestling with the facts. Why me? Didn't I already have a big love once? And lost it? So why should I get it again? I've had stop trying to look for cracks and flaws to prove that it's not as good a it seems. Because it's as good as it seems. Even when we fight we fight inside a container of good. Somehow, through a flip of the coin, I ended up here. Feeling like somebody at the top of the heart-lung transplant recipient list. Damaged but invigorated and fucking lucky. ...more Burroughs is honest and I like him... there are portions that gave me great compassion for him... to the effect that I don't think I can read \"Running with Scissor\" -- it might hurt to read his memoir. I have a hard time stomaching kids not receiving the care they need. The good news is that in the end... Burroughs has received the \"good\" the world has to offer-- which makes me have hope. Here is an excerpt that depicts his wit, but also his honesty about his life experiences that have shaped hi Burroughs is honest and I like him... there are portions that gave me great compassion for him... to the effect that I don't think I can read \"Running with Scissor\" -- it might hurt to read his memoir. I have a hard time stomaching kids not receiving the care they need. The good news is that in the end... Burroughs has received the \"good\" the world has to offer-- which makes me have hope. Here is an excerpt that depicts his wit, but also his honesty about his life experiences that have shaped him. \"But you'd make such great parents!\" Yes and no. Dennis would make a good parent. He loves to cook, and he does it extremely well. he istens. He nurtures. He flosses. But this relationship contains two people, and the other one is unfit. Whenever I see a baby-slapper on CNN, I think There but for the grace of God. I'm terrified of what sort of parent I would make. First, because I am startlingly self-centered. I require hours alone each day to write about myself. It takes no leap of imagination to know that in our home, there would be a Sony Playstation in every room. \"Leave daddy alone and go make it to level four. And Daddy will give you ten bucks if you put it on mute.\" Another problem is that I was raised without proper parenting myself. So I really have no wisdom to impart. If a bully so much as touched him at school, my kid would be armed with a stun gune the next day. ...more I'm really enjoying this book! I can only deal with a collection of short stories when they're about the same person; and in this case the main character of each story is the author, Augusten Burroughs. Who knows if all the details are true, i don't care. What is evident, and wonderful is that the stories are each little gems that i don't want to end. Each chapter has wonderful sentences that make me run into the room where jason is, or poke him on the train, and read aloud. I also believe i'm d I'm really enjoying this book! I can only deal with a collection of short stories when they're about the same person; and in this case the main character of each story is the author, Augusten Burroughs. Who knows if all the details are true, i don't care. What is evident, and wonderful is that the stories are each little gems that i don't want to end. Each chapter has wonderful sentences that make me run into the room where jason is, or poke him on the train, and read aloud. I also believe i'm destined to have a gay son just like him, because I adore the character description of him as a flaming little boy fascinated by broadway, practiced monologues, and famous transexuals. What constant entertainment! I don't want this book to end. UPDATE: I am finished reading this book, and loved every single story except the story about him trying to kill a mouse trapped in his bathtub. It was way too detailed, and involved bleach, pesticide, scalding water. ugh. disgusting. I didnt finish that one. Every other story was perfect, moving, and humorous. ...more Probably the weakest of all of Burroughs' work (with \"Dry\" coming in at the top spot), I still enjoyed this one. I did, however, feel there was a certain rushed tone, like he had to slam out these stories quickly to keep his name relevant. I wouldn't really call any of his writing \"thoughtful,\" per se, but these stories in particular seem a bit shallow (which I'm sure he'd readily admit). Anecdotes about his boyfriend and dog are sweet (I liked his boyfriend announcing he wanted to be President Probably the weakest of all of Burroughs' work (with \"Dry\" coming in at the top spot), I still enjoyed this one. I did, however, feel there was a certain rushed tone, like he had to slam out these stories quickly to keep his name relevant. I wouldn't really call any of his writing \"thoughtful,\" per se, but these stories in particular seem a bit shallow (which I'm sure he'd readily admit). Anecdotes about his boyfriend and dog are sweet (I liked his boyfriend announcing he wanted to be President of Lycra in order to decree who would be allowed wear it and who wouldn't) but the stuff about his parents and his childhood growing up with his mother's psychotic shrink seem like retreads. I think he's used the story about being in Tang commercial as a child in at least three separate books now (\"Running with Scissors,\" \"Possible Side Effects,\" and now \"Magical Thinking\"). We get it, Augusten. You were an extraordinarily vain child who was obsessed with celebrity at a young age. You're a star now, so relax and take your time with your next book. ...more \"Magical Thinking,\" especially for someone who has read any other of Augusten Burroughs' memoirs, maintains a cheerful level of anecdotal references to such things as the secret talents of Catholic priests, pespi-enemas, and the author's own violent descent into madness and squalor. However, it appears that the book merely mirrors the two other books I've read by Burroughs (\"Possible Side Effects\" and \"Running With Scissors\") rather than offering up a differing perspective on his life or even a \"Magical Thinking,\" especially for someone who has read any other of Augusten Burroughs' memoirs, maintains a cheerful level of anecdotal references to such things as the secret talents of Catholic priests, pespi-enemas, and the author's own violent descent into madness and squalor. However, it appears that the book merely mirrors the two other books I've read by Burroughs (\"Possible Side Effects\" and \"Running With Scissors\") rather than offering up a differing perspective on his life or even a different set of memories upon which he might make some kind of greater comment on his own life; in all three of these books, the specific memories all detailed in one way or another either his own materialism, his own lack of hygiene or proper socialization, or his upbringing with passive and equally insane parents. While overall, the vignettes Burroughs details of his life are hilarious and interesting, the book really lacks an original/tying theme. 3/5 stars for entertainment and shock value. ...more Every so often, I thought, \"David Sedaris has written this, only slightly more hilariously and eloquently.\" And I felt bad for thinking that, because this isn't just an adequately written book. This is a wonderfully written book. And to be honest, it was only the first few chapters that were very reminiscent of Sedaris. Was it exactly like the opening of \"Naked\"? Well, yes. Can they help it if they both fostered the same delusions of being snatched from fabulous wealth and fame and deposited into Every so often, I thought, \"David Sedaris has written this, only slightly more hilariously and eloquently.\" And I felt bad for thinking that, because this isn't just an adequately written book. This is a wonderfully written book. And to be honest, it was only the first few chapters that were very reminiscent of Sedaris. Was it exactly like the opening of \"Naked\"? Well, yes. Can they help it if they both fostered the same delusions of being snatched from fabulous wealth and fame and deposited into middle-class life by villainous kidnappers pretending to be their natural parents? No. Just an odd coincidence. So Burroughs comes off looking like Sham, the horse that would have been the greatest horse of the decade if he hadn't been born the same year as Secretariat. But that's no reason to ignore him. Burroughs is talented and deviant and hilariously ready to share all his wicked thoughts with you. I read \"Magical Thinking\" in two days of marathon reading (I got lucky that there was a long train ride in those two days) and I'm already looking for more. ...more Magical Thinking: A schizotypal personality disorder attributing to one's own actions something that had nothing to do with him or her and thus assuming that one has a greater influence over events than is actually the case. This definition was provided in the book. I came to know about this book while I was looking through in a secondhand books store that is located on the far edge of the city. I was captivated by the title! When I first started this book, I didn't enjoy it much, so I left there b Magical Thinking: A schizotypal personality disorder attributing to one's own actions something that had nothing to do with him or her and thus assuming that one has a greater influence over events than is actually the case. This definition was provided in the book. I came to know about this book while I was looking through in a secondhand books store that is located on the far edge of the city. I was captivated by the title! When I first started this book, I didn't enjoy it much, so I left there beside my bed for almost a year & a half until I finally decided to get back to it, and to my surprise, I found it interesting & I kept going from one story to the next. What was more astonishing to me, was that when I got back to the book, I found a mention for Ernest Hemingway in the exact page where I abandoned The book. And it is so due to the fact that I was reading Farewell to Arms by Hemingway at the time! that gave me a cheerful mood to continue reading both books In general, it was a fun & light book to read :) ...more Since Running with Scissors and Dry are both on my Best Books Ever shelf (5 stars), I naturally assumed this would be well-written, insightful, and funny. How wrong I was. He comes across here as SO unlikable, I could hardly bear to read what he has to say. He is an animal-hating, child-hating, bitter, angry person with an overly inflated ego. This book went into the trash because it isn't even fit for library donation. That's saying a lot, because I've probably only trashed (as opposed to donat Since Running with Scissors and Dry are both on my Best Books Ever shelf (5 stars), I naturally assumed this would be well-written, insightful, and funny. How wrong I was. He comes across here as SO unlikable, I could hardly bear to read what he has to say. He is an animal-hating, child-hating, bitter, angry person with an overly inflated ego. This book went into the trash because it isn't even fit for library donation. That's saying a lot, because I've probably only trashed (as opposed to donated) fewer than 5 books in my life. There's no denying he can write well about his childhood, but do not bother with these mean, unpleasant tales from his adult life. ...more Like any collection, it has its stronger and weaker elements. My favorites are the kinder, gentler stories; the ones about Dennis, and about getting excellent blowjobs from Catholic priests, and his experiences at the Barbizon modeling school, and the title essay. Partly I was fascinated by these stories because Burroughs is basically the anti-me. Not just because he's a gay guy and I'm a straight woman, but because he is an alcoholic urban ad agency executive who watches endless TV and, as he sa Like any collection, it has its stronger and weaker elements. My favorites are the kinder, gentler stories; the ones about Dennis, and about getting excellent blowjobs from Catholic priests, and his experiences at the Barbizon modeling school, and the title essay. Partly I was fascinated by these stories because Burroughs is basically the anti-me. Not just because he's a gay guy and I'm a straight woman, but because he is an alcoholic urban ad agency executive who watches endless TV and, as he says in one of his essays, if he wants nature, he turns on the Discovery Channel. He's not just not like me, he's not like anybody I come in regular contact with or know well. It's like reading the memoirs of a space alien. ...more<---C>Augusten Burroughs</---C>", "Title": "Magical Thinking: True Stories"},
