{"Comments": "Did you cop a big eyeful of that? That's right.<---F> Those Tortoises are totally boning</---F>. Now, I'm sure there's many a tortoise out there who would find that image very appealing. Unfortunately, I don't. And this is my BIG PROBLEM with <+++>Kushiel's Dart</+++>. Not that it's full of tortoise sex, mind you. There's almost no tortoise sex at all! It's that the sex in this book just does nothing for me. In fact, I'd probably enjoy tortoise sex more. I'm hardly going to elaborate on my proclivities in the bedroom. It' Did you cop a big eyeful of that? That's right. Those Tortoises are totally boning. Now, I'm sure there's many a tortoise out there who would find that image very appealing. Unfortunately, I don't. And this is my BIG PROBLEM with <+++>Kushiel's Dart</+++>. Not that it's full of tortoise sex, mind you. There's almost no tortoise sex at all! It's that the sex in this book just does nothing for me. In fact, I'd probably enjoy tortoise sex more. I'm hardly going to elaborate on my proclivities in the bedroom. It's enough to say that I don't find abuse, extreme domination and severe pain or the threat of death to be sexy. The main character in this story does and thus we are at an impasse. Only in this case I can't poison her in a clever battle of the wills, so that makes our impasse infinitely less fun. I've read one BDSM story before but the difference was that this story was about two consenting adults both in a position to pull out (<---B>hyuk hyuk!</---B>) and both of them actually liking each other and eventually falling in love. Now that story was really damn sexy. Phedre's first sexual partner just likes hitting a lot and wants to punish Phedre's master by beating her up. How is that sexy? That his fist got sore smashing into her face is supposed to endear us to this is kind of thing? Now the story goes out of its way to both explain that Phedre has a biological/spiritual imperative to enjoy pain and studies into the human mind show that people's pleasure/pain receptors can go seriously squiff (that's the proper medical term, naturally) during sex but... c'mon! My problem is that SHE'S A DAMN CHILD! Sex slave fantasies are all good if that's your thing but this is a book that glorifies the whole children being prepped for a life as a sex slave thing. In fact, I refuse to like something that has gained pedobear's seal of approval. Because this book totally has it... Unfortunately, this book loses most of its charm when you start to analyse things through the haze of lust-filled prose. Delauney turns from an intelligent, shrewd, caring father figure into the pimpmaster of prostitution - training children up from the age of ten to be his little sex-spies. Phedre becomes a very confused, abused child who grows into a woman trying to justify her abuse as decent and proper and performed by someone who was merely saving her. The whole thing becomes a really sad wank fantasy. The thing is, I usually LIKE wank fantasies! But this one just didn't do it for me. That's not to say that the writing and atmosphere wasn't fantastic and that the world building wasn't spectacular. The political intrigue was fascinating and this novel would have been saved had Phedre not started the novel as a hardcore BDSM child. I'm hardly one to start the age-old Won't Someone Please Think of the Children! Call. That isn't what it's about. It's just fun to start yelling in a crowded area. Hell, I know how sexualized kids can be just on their own without having a background of abuse and all that. It's all about experimentation. It's about developing their own sexuality. I just don't want to read about it. EVER. Little girls play with their barbies and their my little ponies and they don't masturbate or want to be whipped so they can cum. Ever. Not in Katland. It's like the Tortoise thing. If you like Tortoise sex then you're going to want to read a book about that. If you like sex slave wank fantasies about being raised from infancy as a BDSM enthusiast then this is for you. Unfortunately, it's just not for me. Edit to add: Wow...there are Fan Tattoos! ...more Just a disclaimer here: This will be a very difficult review to write. In order to truly review this book, I have to talk about my own views on things and how books affect me personally. I am opening myself up here, which always makes me squirm. If you are reading this review and you don't agree with my beliefs on things, that's totally fine. But, I am not going to deny how I feel, because that is very important to me when I review a book, since I read books emotionally and not from a detached s Just a disclaimer here: This will be a very difficult review to write. In order to truly review this book, I have to talk about my own views on things and how books affect me personally. I am opening myself up here, which always makes me squirm. If you are reading this review and you don't agree with my beliefs on things, that's totally fine. But, I am not going to deny how I feel, because that is very important to me when I review a book, since I read books emotionally and not from a detached standpoint. Having said that, let's get this show on the road. I can think of a list of reasons why I should not have liked this book, and I will start there: 1. I really dislike long books. As I told a friend on here, I am a 'hit it and quit it' reader--meaning, I like to read shorter to moderate-length (and occasionally longer) books,<---M> get them read</---M>, and move onto the next book. This book was a massive 901 pages! 2. Prostitution and paid sex is something that I absolutely detest the thought of. It squicks me out that someone would pay for sex or have sex for money or financial support/livelihood. I generally avoid this content like the plague, although a big part of my nature is to occasionally challenge myself and my perceptions of the world. It's good for me, even if the process is painful at times. This book has a heroine who is a courtesan, although she is called more ugly terms that I don't use. Not only that, her prostitution is a form of worship and honor to one of her dieties (if you want to call Fallen angels dieties). 3. I don't like books where the main characters sleep with a lot of people during the book. Promiscuity and sleeping around is another area that I am just not comfortable with. I especially don't like reading about sex with no love/emotional bond. This book was kind of interesting in that Phedre's sex is a form of worship. She didn't love most of the people she was intimate with, but she loved Elua, Naamah, and Kushiel, and that was expressed through her sex with her patrons. The genesis of the sacred nature of sex in this culture relates to the fact that the angel Naamah would lay with strangers to support Elua and the angels as they traveled through the Terre D'Ange. It's probably necessary to mention that the patron can be male or female. Elua's dictate is Love as thou wilt , which eliminates any stigma to same sex relationships. Although I am more of a male/female romance reader, I don't necessarily dislike same sex interactions, so that wasn't a huge issue for me. 4. I am very vanilla about sex. Meaning, I don't like reading about kinky, dark, twisted sex at all. I especially don't like reading about sadomasochistic/painful/humiliating sex. I don't understand that need and it's not something that I personally feel okay about. The main character in this story is a masochist. She was pricked by Kushiel (who is the angel who is the keeper of Hell and punishes the lost). That punishment is out of love to save their souls. Phedre possessing Kushiel's Dart marks one of her dark brown eyes with a dash of red, which is a visible manifestation of her being favored or cursed to have a physiology which made pain pleasurable for her, including emotional pain (which means that she got sexually aroused by being humiliated or forced or treated badly by her partner). I'm not going to go into detail here. I think you could use your imagination. I'll just leave it with two words to express my feelings: Ick Factor! Most of the sex scenes were very uncomfortable for me to read. In the author's defense, this book has very elegant sex scenes (for the subject matter). Somehow, she managed to avoid them coming off as repulsive and tawdry. My repulsion was based on my own comfort zones being exceeded, instead of deliberate acts of prurience on the author's part. 5. I typically don't care for stories with a lot of political intrigue and situations. Surprisingly, I found that I really got into that aspect of this story, and I was quite enthralled with the tangled web of conspiracies against members of the royal family and nobles. I believe it was because Ms. Carey did a great job of entwining Phedre into this Gordian Knot in a very intimate manner through her adoptive father, Anafiel Delaunay. Phedre becomes Delaunay's bondservant, and is trained to be a master spy as well as courtesan. Her skills aid him in his secret avocation to the royal family, hearing and seeing all, in the line of her duties as a courtesan. 6. The whole cultural set up of this story is very different from what I am used to. Surprisingly, this part was the easiest thing to get past. When I read fantasy, I expect that the author will build her own world from the ground up, and that might include other religious beliefs. It's easier for me if the author founds a whole new religious world divorced from the real world. I can easily separate myself from what I know and accept the concepts from the story and read it with a fresh mind. In this book, Ms. Carey takes a left turn from Christianity, and creates a world in which the main diety worshipped, Elua, is the son of Jesus' blood from when he was wounded on the cross and its union with Mother Earth. The other members of the pantheon are angels that chose to fall to accompany Elua in his exile. In other words, turning their back on God to follow Elua. The people with these beliefs are called D'Angelines, because they live in the country founded by Elua and his Angels called Terre D'Ange (Land of the Angel in French). Christianity still exists in the world, and its practitioners are called Yeshuites, after Jesus' Hebrew name of Yeshua. I believe there are also Muslims, but they are called Akkadians. The people who correspond to the Celts and Picts of Alba (Britain) and Eire (Ireland) have their own beliefs, and the Skaldi, who are like Norsemen, worship the Norse pantheon. Even though it was pretty different, I thought it was a pretty creative cultural genesis that Ms. Carey accomplished in this story. Yes, that's a lot of reasons why I shouldn't have liked this book. Despite these things, I loved this book. It was fascinating. It kept my interest. I cared about the characters. Phedre was a heroine that I loved. I didn't like her assignations, and I would sort of roll my eyes when she took another one, much like Joscelin did. But, I liked her as a person. I could see that she was being true to herself, and I couldn't fault her for that. I loved how she came from very humble origins and made something wonderful of herself. I loved her loyalty and her caring heart. I loved how clever she was. She used every thing she had been taught and all her assets to accomplish what needed to be done. Even though I didn't always like what she did, I respect why she did it. It was profound to see how her view of herself and her place in the world changed. People looked down on her for being a 'whore', but she was a great spymaster, a diplomat, and an incredible tactitian. I cheered for her to find her rightful place in her world, because she earned that after all she'd suffered and lost. I loved Joscelin as well. Although he was a bit judgmental at times, so was Phedre towards him, but in a different way. It was very clear how devoted to her he was, and he was very true to his beliefs, following Cassiel, the angel who still loved God, but felt that he had to follow Elua out of loyalty. I admired that he made sacrifices to follow his beliefs, but his love for Phedre often caused him to break his vows, which in a way showed how true to following Cassiel he was. Even though he was not the main character, my mind always went back to him, wanting to see what he was doing and how he reacted to the situations around him. All the characters were real and lifelike, some in a good way, some in a bad way. But, there weren't any disposable characters in this story, even if they played small roles. And when some of the characters I grew to love got harmed and died, it made for painful reading. At first, I had a lot of trouble with all the names of the characters and people, and countries. But, after a while, it started to make sense, and I was able to connect them to an existing frame of reference pretty well. I think it was pretty brilliantly conceived. The various peoples were extremely culturally distinct, and I really appreciated the time that Ms. Carey took to explore their cultures. It was interesting how the D'Angelines had a lot of cultural superiority that they had to get past, in order to face a huge threat from within and from the warlike, intimidating Skaldi race. What surprised me was that I found the military aspects very fascinating. Maybe I shouldn't be surprised, because I've always had an admiration for warriors and the culture of warriors. I thought that seeing the battles and war unfold through Phedre's eyes was very interesting. I liked seeing how she used her particular skill set to aid her country in winning the war. The sacrifices she made for her country were very admirable. She showed that although she wasn't a warrior in the traditional sense, her heart was that of a warrior, willing to give everything to win and prevail, even if that involved personal sacrifice and surrender. This was a deep book. It took me through a gamut of emotions, many not comfortable at all. It truly was epic, and I really didn't get bored, surprisingly considering its length and complexity. There were some very unpalatable aspects to this story, and the values seemed very alien to what I feel I hold sacred. However, underneath there is a commonality. Love is sacrifice, love is giving. When something is important to a person, one devotes herself to it. Even though the creeds of the people in this book seemed alien, I could identify with the idea of holding something sacred in life, and that dictating one's actions. As one can imagine, it's not easy to sum up my thoughts on a book that is so long and rather complicated. I think I have done as best as I can, and I won't make this review any longer than necessary. I have to be honest and say I highly doubt I'll keep reading this series. It's a huge investment of my time and energy when books are this long. And since it took me to some uncomfortable places, I'm not sure I want to go through that process any more with the following books. In my mind, I want to think of Phedre and Joscelin being happy, able to find a compromise that works for both of them, and having a great love. I want to leave things that way. The good thing is, this book is a keeper, and will have fond memories of these characters who came to mean so much to me. Perhaps I will reread this book one day to revisit this fascinating world of the D'Angelines. ...more I enjoyed this a lot at first, in a stupid trashy way, but got bored after a while, which is why I took so long to finish it. I think it reaches its height of trashy fun in Terre d'Ange; all the bits with Phedre living with the Skaldic tribes, getting away from them in the wintry tundra etc. etc. drag a lot for me. Maybe it's just 'cos \"swept away by a barbarian!\" isn't my kink. Carey has a habit of saying really obvious things in a hilariously portentous way, e.g. I asked him to pass the butter, I enjoyed this a lot at first, in a stupid trashy way, but got bored after a while, which is why I took so long to finish it. I think it reaches its height of trashy fun in Terre d'Ange; all the bits with Phedre living with the Skaldic tribes, getting away from them in the wintry tundra etc. etc. drag a lot for me. Maybe it's just 'cos \"swept away by a barbarian!\" isn't my kink. Carey has a habit of saying really obvious things in a hilariously portentous way, e.g. I asked him to pass the butter, for though as one marked by Kushiel's Dart, my greatest pleasure lies in pain, yet I am D'Angeline, and appreciate the finer things in life. Golden butter, springing from the roseate udders of the exquisite cattle of L'Agnace, was a pure joy I had neither strength nor inclination to deny. \"It's the butter you desire?\" said Joscelin, my beloved, brave Cassiline. Well I knew the agonies that tore him even to acknowledge my desires, for the Cassiline brethren are trained to asceticism. Though they appreciate the beauty that is their birthright, as any born on Elua's blessed land must, the beauty they are drawn to is stern and cold, allowing not for butter. \"Yes,\" said I: and truly, it broke my heart to say it. He passed the butter, but I could tell with by one glance at his white face, still and beautiful as suffering carved into marble, that it cost him much. I do not think his heart could grieve more than mine did, that day when I asked him to pass the butter. This isn't even that great a parody, 'cos that's *exactly how she writes*. I did really like the worldbuilding, with all these prettily-named AU versions of European countries. I think probably my favourite character was Hyacinthe -- he was the only one who seemed to have a sense of humour. ...more There is this new guy at my office. The moment I learned he used to work at B&N, I wanted to run to his desk and start hounding him about books. Don\u2019t scare him off, Cassy. Pace yourself. I started stealthy checking the cover of the books he\u2019d read during lunch. I tested the waters before team meetings \u2013 dropping the names of authors from different genres. Turns out he reads a lot of fantasy, which is great. I have always enjoyed the genre and seem to lean heavily toward it this year. When I There is this new guy at my office. The moment I learned he used to work at B&N, I wanted to run to his desk and start hounding him about books. Don\u2019t scare him off, Cassy. Pace yourself. I started stealthy checking the cover of the books he\u2019d read during lunch. I tested the waters before team meetings \u2013 dropping the names of authors from different genres. Turns out he reads a lot of fantasy, which is great. I have always enjoyed the genre and seem to lean heavily toward it this year. When I mentioned this book, he started blushing. It piqued my interest immediately. He stammered a little and won\u2019t out-right recommend it, but I knew. When I got back to my desk a few minutes later, there was the confirmation. An email clarifying that he really loved it. Read the series seven times. I started the book two days later. I would hold it at weird angles to hide the half-nude woman on the cover from other (completely oblivious) people at the airport, in the hotel, outside museums, on the subway. I read 300+ pages during a weekend trip to NYC. This book distracted me from NYC, people! I am impressed by this debut. It is beautifully written. Sure, the sentences are a little convoluted. Foreshadowing is rampant. The phrase \u201cmy lord\u201d peppers the pages. \u201cIf only I\u2019d known, in my na\u00efve blossoming, then mayhap my beloved, my lord may have lived to see his oath satisfied and his dear homeland avenged and dipped in honey.\u201d I\u2019ll admit it got old. I will also confess I was moderately confused throughout the whole book. Even now, I think I only really understood 85% of the intrigue. The book is intricately plotted (to borrow from Robert Jordan \u2019s blurb). Battles, oaths, secrets, revenge, alliances, betrayals, and politics abound. It poses a healthy challenge to keep up. And the characters, oh, the characters. They are all well drawn. Not only could I tell them apart, I actually cared if they lived or died. Phedre\u2019s relationship with Joscelin morphs in fascinating and subtle ways. Speaking of which, Carey has an excellent sense of pacing. The book spans over a decade and is already over 900 pages long. She craftily speeds up a few sections while telling me just enough. Last, there is strong world building. I normally find invented religions boring, but hers is poetic and important to the plot. In fact, everything is essential to the plot. For being so long, the book is oddly concise. Given all these positive feelings, I am surprised the book is not better known. I would expect a Patrick Rothfuss -scale excitement when her name is mentioned. Well\u2026okay\u2026it is time for The Talk. Maybe one sixth of the book is full of sex. Some of it is standard, tastefully written sex. The type and frequency you expect in this type of fantasy novel. Some of it could isolate readers. Think whips, punches, blades, humiliation. That kind of sex. Remember, in crude terms, Phedre is a prostitute who experiences pleasure through pain. (In more nuanced terms, she is a highly intelligent spy marked by their gods and respected by the highest echelons of society.) Bisexuality is also accepted in this world. I\u2019d say I am pretty prudish in my day-to-day behavior. But it takes a lot to offend me when reading. This sex tested my limits. It puzzled me too. She likes that? Upside down in chains? Really? But Carey\u2019s writing is ever elegant and thoughtful. Even if I am not rushing out to buy a paddle, she helped me understand Phedre\u2019s perspective and find the entertainment value. Most importantly, every scene is integral to the plot. They reveal Phedre\u2019s strength of purpose, her occasional self-hate, her shrewd gauge of people, political intrigues, relationship progressions, and so forth. I cannot guarantee you can stomach these scenes. But I won\u2019t let it turn you away from at least trying the book. They are not graphic and extended. If you can handle a standard torture scene, you can get through these. Just think of them as adding a little spice. A sprinkling of cayenne pepper on dark chocolate. Beware that the book differs from a canonical fantasy novel in some aspects. There are no sentient creatures other than humans. Magic is limited to a couple fortune-tellers and a mysterious force who commands the waters between two kingdoms. There is, however, a medieval-type setting and lots of lore. If you are a fan of epic fantasy novels and can handle this type of sexual content, I would 100% recommend this book to you. And although it is part one of a trilogy, the ending is conclusive. You can clearly see the direction of the next book, but there is no great cliff-hanger. I very much appreciate this. While I obviously enjoyed this one, I would have resented being forced into reading another 900 pages so soon. ...more The first thing everyone usually talks about regarding the Kushiel books is the sex, so I'll get it out of the way first: S&M, not for the faint of heart, absolutely integral to the plot. It's easy to summarize the book very briefly or very in-depth; it's almost impossible to do anything in between, so I'll keep it brief; Phedre is an elite courtesan in Terre D'Ange, a land whose residents boast traces of angelic blood in their veins. She is trained as a spy by a mysterious courtier, and mus The first thing everyone usually talks about regarding the Kushiel books is the sex, so I'll get it out of the way first: S&M, not for the faint of heart, absolutely integral to the plot. It's easy to summarize the book very briefly or very in-depth; it's almost impossible to do anything in between, so I'll keep it brief; Phedre is an elite courtesan in Terre D'Ange, a land whose residents boast traces of angelic blood in their veins. She is trained as a spy by a mysterious courtier, and must navigate the dangerous waters of intrigue both at court and internationally in order to save the homeland she loves. Of intrigue, high adventure, and sensuality (both sexual and non-), this book boasts plenty. Carey is good at all of them. But where she truly excels beyond most of the brightest stars in the fantasy firmament is in her depiction of the subtleties of relationships, in the minute shifts that may bring down a country, and in unflinching examination of both the bright and dark sides of love, desire and loyalty. She also takes the magic in Christian and Jewish mythology to a new level, exploring their implications, their resonance with pagan belief, and what would happen if a state religion made pleasure sacred, rather than taboo. It's about the magic of language, too; the way words can kill or save, create a world or destroy one. And all of it is told from the viewpoints of one of the paradoxically strong, courageous, wry and magnanimous characters ever to grace the page. A lot of people have claimed this book is \"slow,\" or that it takes a while to get started. They're missing what it's really about. This is not a sword & sorcery novel. The adventure elements are important for how they affect the relationships of the characters, but they're not the point. If the characters aren't what make you love books; if the subtleties of court politics and alliances and love bore you, this isn't the book for you. ...more I don't care how long a book is, if it's failed to wow me by page 361 then I think it's time to give up, right? I understand a few things about this book. Firstly, that <---A>Jacqueline Carey</---A> is actually not a bad writer, that the world created and the politics of it are well thought out... but I still don't understand why this book hasn't got more mixed reviews. Are there that many people into hardcore bdsm? Let's face it, that's what this book is really about. Yeah, so... sex. I am open-minded about I don't care how long a book is, if it's failed to wow me by page 361 then I think it's time to give up, right? I understand a few things about this book. Firstly, that Jacqueline Carey is actually not a bad writer, that the world created and the politics of it are well thought out... but I still don't understand why this book hasn't got more mixed reviews. Are there that many people into hardcore bdsm? Let's face it, that's what this book is really about. Yeah, so... sex. I am open-minded about it and like books that use it in moderation and don't swamp the story with it. Kink? No problem, spices up the dullest relationship... but even I have my limits. You see, there's a HUGE difference between a bit of handcuffs and hair-pulling, and flogging someone until they bleed (and have an orgasm!). No, I'm serious. I saw before I picked it up that this book had been tagged as \"bdsm\" but when I read the description and found out that the book's all about sex and violence, I thought the GR members were being melodramatic and silly. But no, this is a fantasy world built upon some hardcore bdsm schmexing. Phedre (the protagonist) was born with a scarlet mote in her eye, thus making her \"one pricked by Kushiel's dart, chosen to forever experience pain and pleasure as one.\" Oooh, what a fanciful way of saying that she gets off on having the crap beaten out of her - literally! Not just that but she likes being mentally tormented as well, through harsh words and humiliation. I don't think I will ever appreciate this kind of sexuality, I only got so far into the novel because I was filled with a kind of morbid fascination. I find it weird that this is so very highly rated. Books that contain subjects that are a bit edgy usually end up with mixed ratings but I constantly find this series on lists of the best fantasy books of all time... I'm clueless. Especially when it is pretty much all about sex. Yeah, it's about kingdoms and politics as well but even these matters are settled with sex. And more sex. Also, the politics of the book I found to be very dull. It had no relation to politics in our world so I couldn't draw any parallels... just the politics of a sex-ruled world. Ah, sex and politics, two things that can add that special something to a book or ruin it. Guess which I think is the case here? ...more once upon a time, in response to the question What Would You Like To See In Fantasy, i responded: 1. i would like to see an old woman as a protagonist. 2. or an interesting demon - but not a 'sexy' PNR demon. 3. or more epic fantasies set in steamy, wet jungles rather than european-style forests or meadowlands. 4. or a hero who is also a slut (male or female). 5. or a YA fantasy series in which the hero grows progressively more villainous. ________ i felt confident that Kushiel's Dart would allow once upon a time, in response to the question What Would You Like To See In Fantasy, i responded: 1. i would like to see an old woman as a protagonist. 2. or an interesting demon - but not a 'sexy' PNR demon. 3. or more epic fantasies set in steamy, wet jungles rather than european-style forests or meadowlands. 4. or a hero who is also a slut (male or female). 5. or a YA fantasy series in which the hero grows progressively more villainous. ________ i felt confident that Kushiel's Dart would allow me to eliminate number 4. alas, 'tis not to be. Phedre is no slut. i don't care how much Carey tries to convince us otherwise, the girl is no slut. let me just start off by venting my confusion. okay, in this world, Phedre is an anguisette , which means that she gets off on (1) ANY sexual contact OR (2) PAIN, the kind experienced by a submissive during an s&m scenario. i put the OR in there because the novel can't seem to make up its mind which kind she is . that was really frustrating. if it was the first kind, well, bravo. i suppose that would make her a kind of natural-born slut, and that's awesome for her, it's your thing, you know, do what you want to do . but she's not a natural-born slut. she doesn't get hungry at the sight of a cute lad or lassie, she just doesn't have that kind of slutty appetite. i think someone who is chemically castrated may actually have more horniness than Phedre. so maybe it is the latter... PAIN! but then i bumped into a bit of underlying ridiculousness there that i just couldn't wrap my little mind around. the novel takes, um, great pains to note that Phedre is the first of her kind in 3 generations to have such receptiveness to PAIN. apparently other folks couldn't possibly enjoy any level of pain, not ever - not even the subs of the Harlot House dedicated to servicing sadists. really? seriously? what kind of world is this, Narnia? the Lollipop Land? i found that to be entirely naive, and annoying. having genuine responsiveness to or enjoyment of a certain degree of pain in sex, let alone within an s&m or even rough sex scenario, is not exactly the rarest of sexual attributes. perhaps this strange lack of a not-uncommon ability, one that is actually widespread, is why this novel would be shelved within the Fantasy genre. what next - a fantasy world where no one's heard of doggy style? okay, i guess i should actually review the book: FOUR STARS for the first third! some excellent world-building, a sophisticated take on religion, and the emphasis on both politics and alternate sexualities was pleasing. the sex scenes were alternately graphic and subtle - i liked that, it lessened the monotony that comes with constant sexual description. the story was different things at different times: a coming of age tale; a novel of political maneouvering, treachery, and deceit; an elegant and erotic series of escalating sexcapades. Phedre & Delaunnay & Joscelin & Hyacinthe were all fun and enjoyable characters. overall, the country of Terre d'Ange is a fascinating place. if i were nobility, i would like to live there! two quibbles: first: the novel becomes rather repetitious when trying to convince the reader that Delaunnay is so much more than a glorified pimp and that Phedre is totally fine with whoring herself out, no prob at all... it remained somewhat unconvincing. but maybe that's just my non-fantasy world perspective speaking. second: all doms were portrayed as at least semi-villainous, and brutal beyond the bedroom as well. OH COME ON JACQUELINE CAREY! that isn't fair. Joscelin - a man who clearly needs to more successfully sublimate his anger - should have the wherewithal to top Phedre, and he's no bad guy. Jos, get with the program! you too, Jacqueline Carey. sadly, TWO STARS for the rest of the novel. it was just okay, and it paled in comparison to the originality of the first third. there was nothing new, just alternate fantasy versions of the early germanic tribes, early england, early ireland. the pages turned quickly but that feeling of reading something very different evaporated quickly. the ending... eh. i kinda got tired of everyone practically shitting themselves at the awesomeness of Phedre. and \"Phedre's Boy's\".... ugh, that's so corny. and the use of magic, whether it be the dromonde or the \"Master of the Straits\" was unconvincing, abrupt, and rather amateurish. ah well. overall, the writing was above average. at times flowery, but that fits the novel. and there was enough promise in that first third that i'll probably take a chance on the second book. it would pain me to not find out where Phedre's freaky future sexploits take her. ...more This is going to be a very unpopular review. So, to all of you who may hate me after reading this, I apologize in advance. From the rave reviews, and based on the vast number of people who seemingly loved this book enough to tattoo a representation of it on their body , I expected it to blow me away. I love fantasy, I love stories with a kick-ass female lead, and despite the fact that this might tell you a bit more about me than you bargained for, I was really looking forward to enjoying a bit of This is going to be a very unpopular review. So, to all of you who may hate me after reading this, I apologize in advance. From the rave reviews, and based on the vast number of people who seemingly loved this book enough to tattoo a representation of it on their body , I expected it to blow me away. I love fantasy, I love stories with a kick-ass female lead, and despite the fact that this might tell you a bit more about me than you bargained for, I was really looking forward to enjoying a bit of pain and pleasure vicariously through this book. Unfortunately, every single one of those things fell very short for me. I consider myself to be a pretty patient person. I can wait through a not-so-great beginning to get to a great story. I can even wait through a bad beginning, and a lukewarm middle to get to a great, everything-comes-together-in-the-end ending. But, no. It started so promisingly, the very beginning setting the stage for an intricate world, society, plot, and story... and then proceeded to annoy me for the next 296 pages. After page 300, it did pick up, but \"fast paced\" doesn't always equal \"good\". Some of the annoying stuff: - Foreshadowing - Allusions - Foreshadowing - Euphemisms - Foreshadowing - Wordiness - Foreshadowing FORESHADOWING. *narrows eyes* Oddly enough, before reading this, my friend said something along the lines of, \"I have to warn you, the foreshadowing is very heavy-handed.\" To which I replied, \"Oh, I probably wouldn't have even noticed if you hadn't told me.\" (Oh silly me.) To which SHE replied, \"Yes. You would.\" Friend, 1. Becky, 0. I have never, ever, seen clumsier foreshadowing in my life. Had I known, then, that this book would test my patience, stamina and sanity, would I have kept reading? No. I wouldn't have. I finished this book because I promised that friend I would read it, so I did. Every page contained a new attempt at suspense... If books came with soundtracks, this one's theme would be \"DUN DUN DUNNNNNNNN!!\" But let's move on and not beat a dead horse. The foreshadowing wasn't the only thing to aggravate me, although it was the most prevalent. We also have the irritating allusions to things that apparently we're supposed to know already. The first, and the one that sticks out most in my head, is a reference to a poem that Phedre read in which a man, who was in love with a woman, \"unmanned\" himself for her. No further detail than that. What does that mean? Did he humble himself before the woman, therefore removing any manliness from his status? Did he physically cut off his manhood? What was the point of the throw-away reference? It never comes up again, so it's not a \"Hey, you might want to remember me for later\" tidbit, it's an annoying slice of \"Haha! Bet you'd like to know what I'm all about, wouldn't ya?\". There were several other situations in which Phedre mentioned things like \"...the whole world knows this, so I won't mention it...\". Oh. OK. Thanks. Wouldn't want you to strain something. Then there were the euphemisms. My favorite being \"Pearl of Naamah\". Why do men have anatomical boy parts (albeit called the annoyingly repetitive \"phallus\"), but girl parts are given a name like the \"Pearl of Naamah\"? Moving on to the general wordiness. Carey must have had her thesaurus handy while writing this book. So many of her sentences just seem to wander around without actually going anywhere. I'm sure she was going for an old-world feel. People back in the day didn't speak like we do now. Got it. But there's a line that when crossed takes you from \"perfectly worded and appropriate for the theme you're going for\" to \"Can we possibly say something in between the 'twixts' and 'tweres'?\". So now let's look at some of the words, shall we? In no particular order: Bistre - Cool word for brown. Overused. Thus - Thus it was that the word thus was thus overused. Somewhat - My absolute favorite of the annoying words. Universally used to replace \"something\", this word just crawled onto my last nerve and dug in its heels. It jarred in every single usage and ruined the flow of every sentence that contained it. VERY overused and unnecessary. Vaster - Just sounds grammatically wrong. Plus overused. Betimes - Overused. Compass - Apparently used to replace \"comprehend\" in certain scenarios. I searched, and can't find a single reference to the word being used in this way anywhere - if you can, please link me to it, it's making me crazy. There were many others, those are just the ones I wrote down. Miscellaneous other bothersome things: - \"Seed\": Yes, this is euphemism for semen, and you might be asking yourself why I didn't mention it above. Well, I will tell you why. Seeds grow into stuff when planted. Can someone please explain to me how it is that Phedre had so many romps with so many men releasing themselves into her and yet never got pregnant? You might be saying to yourself, but this is fantasy, it doesn't matter! Yes, it does. This is a realistic story set in an alternate world, and obviously since Phedre herself is \"a whore's unwanted get\", the subject might be addressed as to how she prevented her own \"unwanted get\". - Melisande: Pointless. Plot. Device. - Forced sequel: Carey could have (should have?) and DID end this book perfectly. And then she kept writing, and in so doing, forced the ending into a situation that would require a sequel. Nice try. I'm forgetting I read the last few pages as I type. This story is ended for me, I think. There... Now we can talk about what I liked. Joscelin. Thank goodness for Joscelin. I really would have had to give up on this book if it wasn't for him. He was really predictable, but I loved him anyway. He kicked ass, like a ninja priest. Hyacinthe. Loved him too - he was fun, and one of the only unique characters in the book. Delaunay. He was awesome. Smart, honest, honorable. I did like the concept of love as a sacred act, and I liked the references to different religions. I enjoyed the different people and their customs, and enjoyed the intricate relationships between everyone and the political aspects of the story. I liked the fact that Delaunay taught Phedre to learn and think and analyze. I like the concept of the thirteen houses, which reminded me of Geisha houses. I liked the Tsingani people, who were fun and boisterous and superstitious and sly. I loved Rousse's men, who were brave and smart and thought of cool songs. I liked Ysandre, who was young and wise and fair. I liked Drustan, too. And Alcuin who was soft-hearted but had a will of steel. I can see how some people would like this book. Unfortunately, I can't count myself among them. Too much annoyed me for me to say I liked it, but I didn't hate it either. I just think it could have been so much better had Carey had an editor with balls. It's always easier to rip apart what you didn't like than enumerate what you did, and I did NOT outline everything that I liked in the book here, so this review is a bit one sided. Sorry about that. I hope you all don't REALLY hate me. ...more This book is so overwrought, so full of tangled, convoluted prose, that I found it hard to take seriously. The world, instead of being built up as an original creation, seems to be taken fairly whole cloth from the French Court of Louis XIV. I know everybody steals, but the best writers steal the most, and I could have used some more depth of inspiration. Then, of course, there is the sex. The constant rampant, submissive, fetishy, 'pain=pleasure' sex. Sex is fine, even porn is fine, but the shee This book is so overwrought, so full of tangled, convoluted prose, that I found it hard to take seriously. The world, instead of being built up as an original creation, seems to be taken fairly whole cloth from the French Court of Louis XIV. I know everybody steals, but the best writers steal the most, and I could have used some more depth of inspiration. Then, of course, there is the sex. The constant rampant, submissive, fetishy, 'pain=pleasure' sex. Sex is fine, even porn is fine, but the sheer redundant volume of the stuff made it less than exciting, after a while--mostly because it all seems to come from the same angle, the same point-of-view. It's a problem in most fantasy: the author wants to write about what interests them, and apparently, only that. I always appreciate an author a bit more when they are able to put in some conflict, try to provide a few sides to the story, and get out of their own heads a little. When an author is truly skilled, you'll come out not knowing which side they're on. But that's not this book. This book is self-indulgent, and makes no apologies, and there is something I can appreciate about that. It's not like the eye-rolling fetishism of most male fantasy authors, like Goodkind or John Norman , whose sexuality always feels confused, conflicted, and furtive. Carey seems to know what she wants and doesn't let anything get in her way. Unfortunately, it was all too much for me. The purple prose, the repetitive sex scenes, the single source world, and the sheer length of the thing. Unfortunately, Carey and I do not share a fetish, because mine (at least when it comes to books) is novelty, and while she may be vastly different from her modern fantasy contemporaries, in the end, I found her book was too similar to itself. My Fantasy Book Suggestions ...more Awww, Goodreads Recommendations Engine! I suddenly feel we're friends! Just hope this doesn't get you into trouble... This book was soooooo not what I was expecting it to be. For some reason, I had it in my head that this was some sort of paranormal romance? And that it was sort of trashy? I have no idea where I got those ideas from, because they couldn't be further from the truth. This book is epic fantasy, well-written, has intricate plotting, seriously intense worldbuilding . . . and it's not your mom and pop's epic fantasy, either. It's sexy. Like, SEXY sexy. Sex is a vital part of the world in Kushiel's Dar This book was soooooo not what I was expecting it to be. For some reason, I had it in my head that this was some sort of paranormal romance? And that it was sort of trashy? I have no idea where I got those ideas from, because they couldn't be further from the truth. This book is epic fantasy, well-written, has intricate plotting, seriously intense worldbuilding . . . and it's not your mom and pop's epic fantasy, either. It's sexy. Like, SEXY sexy. Sex is a vital part of the world in Kushiel's Dart . So the background here is that we're on an alternate history Earth about 1,000 years after the death of Jesus, specifically alternate Europe, once in which Christianity never really took hold because the real focus was drawn to a group of rebel angels who believed in the union of men and angels. Their leader, Elua, is the foundation of their society and religion the way that Jesus is to modern day Christians (Jesus still existed in this version of history, he just had less of an impact). In fact, Elua couldn't exist without Jesus, having been born from the blood fallen from the crucified Christ, mixing with the soil of the Earth. Elua and his followers founded Terre D'Ange, the land of angels (the equivalent of modern day France), where they mixed with men and taught people to \"love as thou wilt.\" The people of Terre D'Ange are part angel as a result of all this. Our main character is <---C>Ph\u00e8dre</---C>, a devotee of the angel Naamah, who taught people to worship through the gift and use of their bodies. Ph\u00e8dre was sold as a child to the Night Court and eventually taught to serve Naamah, essentially becoming a courtesan/priestess hybrid. But Ph\u00e8dre was also born with a mote in her eye, a sign that she is a descendant of the angel Kushiel, and who feels pain as pleasure. Early on, she's adopted by a man who educates and trains her in court politics so that she may use all her training to effect political change. She largely escapes all the hoopla surrounding stories about Special Ones because the way she uses her specialness has everything to do with her own choices, and the way that others view her as a tool or something to possess. I was utterly captivated by this book. And it's really hard to describe, because it's so easy for people to focus on the sex parts. Granted, those are important, but it's never titillating. The sexuality in this world is so foundational it just becomes background at a certain point. And there's so much more that is also interesting. The political maneuverings, the espionage, the battles, the different cultures, the friendships and romances . . . it's like Game of Thrones if that series weren't so concerned with pointing out social inequalities by subjecting its characters to atrocities in the name of power. Here, the powerful people obliterate each other and play a version of the game of thrones, certainly, but it feels so different without the misogyny, with more focus on other stuff that is traditionally considered feminine. And yet, it also doesn't shy away from violence, and even though there is romance in this book, it's not the focus. If you're not skeeved out by the unique sexuality here, it become fascinating. Ph\u00e8dre uses her sexuality as a weapon, as she's been trained, and she's not ashamed of it . . . also, the pain as pleasure thing might be a bridge too far for some readers, but I didn't mind it at all, even though I can't sympathize with her at all in that regard. The first third of the book is basically table-setting. Setting up the world, filling in Ph\u00e8dre's background, letting us get to know all the characters and the political and religious situation, and then BAM, shit doesn't let up for five hundred pages, so if you're a bit bogged down at the beginning, you should push through. I'm so glad Malin kept bugging me to read this after she so generously gifted it to me in the last Cannonball Read book exchange. I will DEFINITELY be reading the second two books in this trilogy, and probably all the other books set in this world as well. If you're a fantasy fan, you should for sure check this series out. I can't believe I almost didn't read it. [4.5 stars] ...more On sale for $2.99 at US Amazon: January 7, 2017. OMG why is this book so long? No wonder it's been on my TBR shelf for over two years. I'm getting heavy R. Lee Smith vibes... I have developed an allergy to long books like this. I usually don't like to review books until I finish them, but I don't think my complaints with this book are ones that will be rectified in the rest of the tome. -Very few authors do political intrigue well. Carey is not one of them, since I have no idea what's going on half the time. -Part of the reason for this is that characters are poorly introduced, often with little context to remember them by or in groups of several people such that you have no idea which characters to remember and which on I usually don't like to review books until I finish them, but I don't think my complaints with this book are ones that will be rectified in the rest of the tome. -Very few authors do political intrigue well. Carey is not one of them, since I have no idea what's going on half the time. -Part of the reason for this is that characters are poorly introduced, often with little context to remember them by or in groups of several people such that you have no idea which characters to remember and which ones won't be reoccuring. Just difficult to keep track of who's who, in general. I don't think the use of primarily French names helps. -If an author is going to set their plot in an alternate universe Europe, I've never understood the point of thinly veiling the countries with other names. I think the reader will understand that the book France or book Italy is not the same as real France or real Italy; no need to rename them. -Foreshadowing. Oh my goodness, the awful, awful foreshadowing with a 2x4. It is usually done somewhat like this: Phedre: \"I had no idea that this event would later become important!\" I like foreshadowing better when the audience doesn't know that the event will later become important, though they may suspect. This style of foreshadowing is both lazy and irritating, and has none of the sublety that makes for good foreshadowing. -The purple prose. I don't know how I forgot about this but one of the other reviews just reminded me. I hate overly flowery language, would rather authors just say things simply, and especially hate it when the author is trying too hard or thinks it makes him/her look smart. I kind of felt that was the case here. The sexuality didn't bother me; I was aware of it coming in and expected it; it's neither a turn on or turn off for me, and I don't mind plenty of trash in my novels. I just prefer interesting trash. ...more Tight, intricate plotting, side characters with a mythological flavor (I swear The Master of the Straights came right out of The Odyssey), And Phedre- the heroine of the story. Never would I have guessed I would like a character with masochistic tendencies who sleeps with \"whoever she wilt\". But I did. I also liked the way the author weaves politics, war, betrayal, treachery and love into this story, and rather adeptly in my opinion. Such intricate plotting can often get tangled and leave open ends Tight, intricate plotting, side characters with a mythological flavor (I swear The Master of the Straights came right out of The Odyssey), And Phedre- the heroine of the story. Never would I have guessed I would like a character with masochistic tendencies who sleeps with \"whoever she wilt\". But I did. I also liked the way the author weaves politics, war, betrayal, treachery and love into this story, and rather adeptly in my opinion. Such intricate plotting can often get tangled and leave open ends that frustrate a reader, but by the end of Kushiel's Dart, one feels satisfied that loose ends are tied up (At least most loose ends. Others are left wide open purposefully- for the next novel.) Carey also meshes different genres well, though for romance reading purists this story probably won't receive high marks. Oh there is sex- and plenty of it, but hardly graphic and THANK GOD for that! ( I don't think I couldn've handled reading full on anguisette loving.) I think what I like best about the book is the world Carey created. The world-building! I'm in awe. The time and effort she must have put in can only be a labor of love- which I'm sure it was for her. She put everything into it. Land, Language, History, Religion, and Culture. Yes it mirrors the time before the dark ages, but it has a an alternate take on that time that is fun to dive into. In the end, I liked Carey's world and I look forward to visiting it again- but I may give it some time. It's just that type of read. ...more Noticed this has been shelved several times as 'Romance' and even as 'erotica', but I think its important to note that there is a difference between books which are actually Romance, but contain fantasy elements; and books which are Fantasy but contain some romance. I'd say this book definately falls into the latter category. Certainly some parts are somewhat graphic on the bdsm parts, but thats where it's important for plot and character, a lot of 'encounters' were suprisingly of the tasteful f Noticed this has been shelved several times as 'Romance' and even as 'erotica', but I think its important to note that there is a difference between books which are actually Romance, but contain fantasy elements; and books which are Fantasy but contain some romance. I'd say this book definately falls into the latter category. Certainly some parts are somewhat graphic on the bdsm parts, but thats where it's important for plot and character, a lot of 'encounters' were suprisingly of the tasteful fade-to-black sort. Phedre is a girl, born and raised among courtesans. Unfortunately Phedre is considered flawed, a single red mote in one eye spoils her appearance, and leaves her unwanted. This is until Anafiel Delaunay sees her and recognises the mote for what it is - Kushiel's dart - a rare mark bestowed by one of their patron angels, both a blessing and a curse. Delaunay takes Phedre into his household, and gives her an education beyond that of any other courtesan. At first it's confusing to Phedre, who doesn't understand what need she'd have of languages and history etc, but Delaunay insist she also learn the more useful skills of observation and deduction.. skills more appropriate for a spy than a courtesan. Delaunay can do his best to keep Phedre safe, but ultimately they must use all resources as the political plots go ever deeper.. murder, treason, war.. The story takes a fair while to get truly started; the novel follows Phedre's story from birth and through her childhood. But despite the long set up, it was never boring, in fact, it's a good method for world building. As Phedre speaks about the various night courts, and learns the myths and histories of her home country, we learn too, and the world has quite a fascinating background. The Author has chosen to base her mythology on jewish and christian beliefs, the brief story is that at the crucifiction of J-sus, His blood mixed with the magdalenes tears, and out of the earth sprang Elua, who was a sort of mortal deity. He had a minor disagreement with the jewish/christian G-d and departed amicably taking several angels with him. They then founded a civilisation in a place called Terre D'Ange (geographically it seems to be france!). From a christian point of view, I actually found it an interestinc concept, to see a fantasy mythology based on something which I consider to be fact.. this made me think more seriously about all the times I've read fantasy stories based on norse or greek mythology! I have no criticism of the way it was done, there seems no disrespect in it from the author's point of view, and it makes for a new and innovative fantasy setting. One of the most unusual things about the setting is the fact that their culture respects and revere prostitutes, in fact to be a courtesan is this society is an act of devotion to one of their patron angels. Theres also a high amount of acceptance for gay relationships, and their one tenet of faith is the phrase 'love as thou wilt'. Overall I thought the book was absolutely brilliant, it's been a long time since I came across a fantasy series to rival my all time favourites but I could happily shelve this alongside my beloved George R.R. Martin , Robert Jordan and Elizabeth Haydon . The background was epic, the description was inspiring, and the characterisation was practically flawless. Just the right amount of sympathy for the heros/heroines and just the right amount of love and hate for the 'villains'. I really hope the rest of the series live up to the same standard! I'd probably recommend it for anyone who like most kinds of fantasy, although.. it's hard to compare to other types of fantasy, but I'd say out of my own limited experience it's closer to Elizabeth Haydon than anything else. See my other reviews of Kushiel's Legacy : | #2 Kushiel's Chosen \u2192 ...more Kushiel\u2019s Dart is an epic book, which I enjoyed. In fact, I long to read another book of this epic scale. The world Jacqueline Carey presents is rich and beautiful, with its own mythology and its own customs. Little details like the exotic wines, elaborate tattoos, and breathtaking fabrics, make my mind swim with ideas. Truly the book is a feast for the imagination. I was intrigued with all the characters too. Everyone, Delaunay, Alcunun, Hyacinthe, Joscelin and of course, Phedre herself, all se Kushiel\u2019s Dart is an epic book, which I enjoyed. In fact, I long to read another book of this epic scale. The world Jacqueline Carey presents is rich and beautiful, with its own mythology and its own customs. Little details like the exotic wines, elaborate tattoos, and breathtaking fabrics, make my mind swim with ideas. Truly the book is a feast for the imagination. I was intrigued with all the characters too. Everyone, Delaunay, Alcunun, Hyacinthe, Joscelin and of course, Phedre herself, all seem to have a mythology about them; a sort of larger than life persona, which reminds me a bit of Homer\u2019s Odyssey. I enjoyed the intricate political plot too. There is a part in this book where the story completely changes direction and just takes off never slowing down. I was truly shocked by what happened. I\u2019m definitely giving Kushiel\u2019s Dart five stars, because I enjoyed it immensely. But I do tend to nitpick what I love, so I want to point out some things I wasn\u2019t too crazy about. One is\u2026 I think the book is a little bit too long. Carey sometimes describes unimportant things in exhaustive detail, and while I love her world building, her book would still have been lush and rich even if it was trimmed a little bit. I found myself anxious for the story to wrap up, and there is so much text before certain characters meet up again. It frustrated me. I found the elitism about the D\u2019Angelines a little off putting, but this could just be my own bias. Any society that is supposed to be superior and more beautiful than any other just annoys me. Being a huge erotica fan, I would have liked to have had more detailed love scenes, maybe divulging a little bit more into the dominance and submission of Phedre\u2019s craft. But I\u2019m a big BDSM fan, so I\u2019m sure the average reader won\u2019t miss this. LOL Other than that though, I think this book is excellent, and I cannot recommend this book enough. Jacqueline Carely made me want to read more fantasy novels. ...more Feels like I just finished a whole series in a matter of days. Not quite fantasy but epic in scope and depth. There's a lot of world building that can seem like tedious writing at first, but all the disordered pieces of the puzzle do come together at the end and there's a huge pay off--the battle at the end had me on the edge of my seat for days. Star rating to be determined at a later date because I just don't know at the moment. There's a lot to unpack, still, but I'll definitely finish this se Feels like I just finished a whole series in a matter of days. Not quite fantasy but epic in scope and depth. There's a lot of world building that can seem like tedious writing at first, but all the disordered pieces of the puzzle do come together at the end and there's a huge pay off--the battle at the end had me on the edge of my seat for days. Star rating to be determined at a later date because I just don't know at the moment. There's a lot to unpack, still, but I'll definitely finish this series. ...more No. Didn't really like it. Still haven't gotten halfway into it. Sadly, I also bought the next two volumes. Just too slow and convoluted and uninteresting. Maybe I'll give it another try sometime, but... Okay... so... three years later, I gave this novel a second chance, and my opinion of it could not have changed more drastically! Whereas the book began very, very slowly and introduced so many characters that they were difficult to keep track of, after I picked it up again and kept reading, I fo No. Didn't really like it. Still haven't gotten halfway into it. Sadly, I also bought the next two volumes. Just too slow and convoluted and uninteresting. Maybe I'll give it another try sometime, but... Okay... so... three years later, I gave this novel a second chance, and my opinion of it could not have changed more drastically! Whereas the book began very, very slowly and introduced so many characters that they were difficult to keep track of, after I picked it up again and kept reading, I found a story that was intriguing and fun to follow, and characters who are real and interesting and very well-formed by Jacqueline Carey. I fell in love with many of them and found myself unable to put the book down. I'm nearly finished with it now, and I can't wait to dig in to the next two volumes. READ THIS BOOK. ...more I don't normally do a very long or thorough review for books that are part of a trilogy: I tend to wait for the end of the trilogy. But Kushiel's Dart is an exception, mainly because there's enough action and intrigue for a whole trilogy in the first book alone. A lot of people start their reviews by saying that this book is not for everyone. Well, bah to that. No book is for everyone. Kushiel's Dart does deal with a lot of sex. Kinky sex. I thought, on the whole, that part was well done -- and I don't normally do a very long or thorough review for books that are part of a trilogy: I tend to wait for the end of the trilogy. But Kushiel's Dart is an exception, mainly because there's enough action and intrigue for a whole trilogy in the first book alone. A lot of people start their reviews by saying that this book is not for everyone. Well, bah to that. No book is for everyone. Kushiel's Dart does deal with a lot of sex. Kinky sex. I thought, on the whole, that part was well done -- and a lot of Ph\u00e8dre's assignations were also plot points. I think that even a person with no interest in BDSM in itself could enjoy the books, and just skim or skip the sex scenes if they're that troubling. Now, some of the torture scenes: they made me wince. I wasn't fond of the narrative voice, at first, but once I got into it, I quite enjoyed it. The voice is quite distinctive, being decidedly not modern English, although it does remind me a little of Fitz and Nevare in Robin Hobb's work -- I think it's mostly that they and Ph\u00e8dre tell their stories from the same distance. This book is incredibly rich in terms of world building. There is so much depth to it, woven into the story. Perhaps a little more than is exactly necessary, but if you appreciate a lot of world building, it's brilliant. You probably have to lay aside any scepticism about a land where everyone is beautiful, having the blood of the son of Jesus, but if you suspend your disbelief and let the details build up, I think it's a very compelling world. The politics that drive the plot are also amazing, and this is one of few books that kept me guessing a lot. Melisande really does play a deep and subtle game. The characters themselves, again, you have to be willing to buy into, I think. I know that some people think she's a \"Mary Sue\" because she's beautiful and she's special and she's marked by a god and all of it. Yes: okay. I can see that criticism. But once you're drawn into the story, once the setup is over, the characters become incredibly compelling. The complex relationships between them are very, very interesting, and I can't wait to see how things will play out. My favourite characters were Joscelin and Hyacinthe, fairly predictably. There's something I find incredibly compelling about the depth of loyalty Joscelin and Hyacinthe have for Ph\u00e8dre in their different ways. Melisande is also incredibly interesting, of course. I loved the subplot of Ysandre and Drustan, too, including the part with the Master of the Straits. Hyacinthe's subplot in that breaks my heart, and yet I love it. Jacqueline Carey keeps a lot of threads on the loom, in this book, and I think she manages them all admirably. I'm eager to read Kushiel's Chosen -- though I might have to take a day or two to recover first! ...more TW for this review: long discussion of rape and consent. Edit: No, one more thing. WHERE ARE THE CONTRACEPTIVES. WHERE. Edit x2: Is it bothering anyone else that Phedre's name is apparently pronounced close to 'FAY-dra', but the accent on the first e is an accent grave? as opposed to an accent aigu, which would actually produce that hard 'a' sound in French? Because it's bothering me. If you're gonna do expy!France, don't fuck up the language. What's written there is closer to 'Fedruh'. Edit x3: I TW for this review: long discussion of rape and consent. Edit: No, one more thing. WHERE ARE THE CONTRACEPTIVES. WHERE. Edit x2: Is it bothering anyone else that Phedre's name is apparently pronounced close to 'FAY-dra', but the accent on the first e is an accent grave? as opposed to an accent aigu, which would actually produce that hard 'a' sound in French? Because it's bothering me. If you're gonna do expy!France, don't fuck up the language. What's written there is closer to 'Fedruh'. Edit x3: I stand corrected . I first encountered this book when I was much younger and just getting into Orson Scott Card's work - they're shelved next to each other in most bookstores and libraries, and after a while I got curious about the huge books with the rather prominently placed half-naked women on them. Reading the dust jackets, I concluded a few things: 1. that these were Sex Books; 2. that the main character would get raped, probably repeatedly; and 3. that they were not for me. I was, as it turns out, correct on all counts. A friend of mine convinced me to give them a shot this year, insisting that the political intrigue was fascinating and the sex wasn't that bad, really. I don't like gainsaying my friends, especially in an area where they objectively have more knowledge than I do, so I agreed, tracked down an ebook, and slogged through it. I came out the other side with... well, I guess I can argue back if anyone tries to convince me to read them again. There were two major disappointments for me in this book: court intrigue and consent. Consent is, obviously, the more important one, so let's talk about that first. One of the interesting things about this book is that it's written as if Phedre is looking back on the events of her life - there's a lot of \"if only I had known then\" which, believe you me, gets annoying. What this means, though, is that there's no room for character development to change perspective. The perspective of the narrator is that of adult Phedre and is cast as knowledgeable, omniscient as a result of hindsight. I mention this because, were this not the case, some of Carey's choices could be explained by Phedre's lack of knowledge or self-reflection in earlier stages of her life - but that's not an option. Maybe it's an asexual thing, to be hyper-tuned to situations of dubious consent and grooming? I definitely seem to be in the minority both here and with regards to Deathless ; I can only guess that, because compulsory sexuality is so inherently threatening to me, it stands out more than it does for allo people? The Night Court runs on child grooming . They raise kids from infancy in a situation where sex work is normalized, start teaching them about it sometimes as young as six, and initiate them at 13. (not that they weren't sexual objects before then - a 10 year-old boy is once told that \"They'll be marking their calendars until you come of age\".) Now, here's the thing: I don't believe there's anything wrong with choosing sex work freely. However, the Night Court and its influence are coercive - we see this in Alcuin, who nearly gets himself killed trying to make his marque and get out of his contract, and earlier in a comment a Valerian House adept makes regarding the use of flechettes as a sex toy: \"He gave an involuntary tremor beside me and his voice changed. 'I hate them.'\" Both of these characters have clearly been put into sexual situations in which they weren't comfortable, and continued to participate as 'Servants of Naamah' nonetheless. That's coercion, not consent. And then there's Phedre, who gets pleasure in pain, and so whose contracts always include a safeword. Which she then never uses, even when a client burns her skin with a poker. The thing about this is - yes, technically speaking, it's possible for someone to have a safeword and never encounter a situation that crosses their boundaries. But that doesn't work here. This whole situation is constructed; Carey chose to give Phedre a safeword but never to show her using it. This means we never see her exercising control over her assignations, nor do we get a demonstration that the nobles of Terre d'Ange would actually respect her choice to end a scene/encounter. The safeword, unused (view spoiler) [except for when Melisande orders her to use it (hide spoiler) ] , has no power. Finally: the handling of rape in this book. As I said, I anticipated it and rightly so, but what I didn't anticipate was Carey's choice to draw a division between kinds of rape. Minor spoilers: Terrible things happen and Phedre gets drugged by the series antagonist and sent to be a slave to the not!Germans over the border. Before she's sent away, though, the antagonist rapes her. Well. I say 'rape', because she was drugged and bound and never asked for consent , and because the sex was literally used as a coercive attempt to get information from her. What Phedre - and thereby Carey - says is this: What she did to me that last night... she would have ended it, if I'd given the signale . I do believe that. It was my choice to withhold it. So, when someone feels they can't safeword out of a situation because of other pressures, that somehow becomes consensual? Since when is rape defined more by whether the attacker will stop if the victim gives them what they want, rather than by the fact that they started against someone's will in the first place? This is made worse by the way that Phedre's hindsight is used to emphasize it: \"It was my choice\". 'Choice' it might nominally be, but consent can't be freely given when the choice is weighted with the lives of people you love and the stability of an entire kingdom. 'Submit to assault or betray your friends and family' isn't a balanced decision at all. The entire setting is built on the idea of \"Love as thou wilt\" being the guiding precept of the land, and while I sort of see where Carey was going with that idea, it just wasn't carefully considered enough. (For a smaller example, as other reviewers have pointed out, 'whore' is still an insult in this culture even though one of their minor deities was literally a prostitute by trade.) If compulsory sexuality is a problem in the real world, it's even more so here, where everyone is expected to be just merrily fucking their way along. (Well - at least, the people we see most of are. Which are the nobles and wealthy merchants. Does 'love as thou wilt' extend to the peasantry? Does Carey care? We may never know.) Right. So. Consent: F-. Abject failure. On to the thing that persuaded me to read this book: the promise of court intrigue! I finally put my finger on why this book's 'intrigue' didn't work for me, and it's this: there's only ever one thing in play. Everyone wants the throne. Right. I get it. But because the major players all have one sole interest, they rarely interact in complicated ways - they're all just rivals for a single thing. Nobody is, say, out to get a better trade agreement with so-and-so, but will trade a favor for a favor even though they don't care about the rest. The 'machinations' at work here are ehh... I'd say maybe four steps at most? This is partly because none of them are playing within the system (if there is a system - we got very little info on the actual political structure of TdA) and they're all just gathering up armies to smash it from outside, but it just had no spark. The intrigue was, well, unintriguing. There's little more to say about it because it was just so damn shallow and dull. I'm still a bit iffy on giving this book two stars, but for the moment that rating stands. The reason for the second: the last quarter or so was pretty much straight up epic fantasy fare (clashing armies, desperate alliances) and that, despite everything else, was pretty enjoyable. Not that there weren't issues involved in those parts - see 'Phedre has hardly any close relationships that don't involve sleeping together' and 'sex is the solution to every problem' - but the pace picked up. So, extra star for that. Oh god, and before I end this review: the writing and the constant insistence that Terre d'Ange is the greatest thing that's ever existed, and all D'Angelines are supernaturally beautiful and no one else will ever be as pretty as them and blah blah fucking blah. Ugh. Infuriating. By the end of the book I about wanted TdA to get razed to the ground by invaders - though I suppose then all the characters would just wax poetic about its lost beauty. You can't win against this arrogance.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Fantasy Review Barn It has been a little while since I read a book that gave me a \u2018oh hell yes,\u2019 stand up and cheer type of scene. And if the one in the waning pages of Kushiel\u2019s Dart consists of the type of thing that can only happen in movies or books, so be it. Because it was the accumulation of events set in motion many chapters before, with everything finally lain before the reader, and it was a rare climax that matches the buildup. The strangest thing about it? It is pure action in the midd Fantasy Review Barn It has been a little while since I read a book that gave me a \u2018oh hell yes,\u2019 stand up and cheer type of scene. And if the one in the waning pages of Kushiel\u2019s Dart consists of the type of thing that can only happen in movies or books, so be it. Because it was the accumulation of events set in motion many chapters before, with everything finally lain before the reader, and it was a rare climax that matches the buildup. The strangest thing about it? It is pure action in the middle of a war, hidden in a book that is certainly not about either of those things. But hidden in this book of political intrigue, strong sexuality, and a massive game of espionage came one of the most memorable battle scenes around. I think I may be in love with this book. I love the setting with its almost Christian religion in which the Mary Magdalene of the world is as important as its Christ. I enjoyed each of the characters, both good and bad, none of whom ever feels like a clich\u00e9 within their role. But most especially I appreciate a book that can keep me hooked from page one to six hundred and something (near a thousand pages in the paperback I am told). I can use a Game of Thrones comparison that is being pushed here because Carey actually includes the phrase in the book; there is something about royal maneuvering that just makes me smile. If this is to be compared to Game of Thrones then it must be done right. Kushiel\u2019s Dart is what would happen if Martin were more focused, decided Sansa was the main character of the story, then put her through hell all the while remembering that hope is occasionally welcome. So nothing at all like Game of Thrones; outside of a battle of nobility and some high quality intrigue. If Kushiel\u2019s Dart is known for one thing it is the very sexual tone in the books. And this is a book that lives up to its reputation. Ph\u00e8dre, protagonist and narrator, is marked by a dart in her eye that labels her as anguissette, or one gets pleasure from pain. In a land where Namaah\u2019s path is a form of worship (temple prostitution if you will) Ph\u00e8dre is trained by a man named Delaunay to be something even more. She grows to be a weapon, not in a physical sense, but rather as a user of information. And in the collection of information sex is ever hers to use. It is every bit as kinky as it sounds, but perhaps not as dirty as it seems. It would be easy to mock the prostitute\u2019s path as an easy way to turn up the thrills but Carey takes the time to build the land and the religion that follows it in a way that makes it seem natural. Some may argue she takes too much time building it, and that may be, but as a lover of well-crafted worlds I was happy. Oh I may wonder why so many were ready to take advantage of Ph\u00e8dre\u2019s unique abilities when it is supposed to be such a rare trait, but only once did it really seem a bit too convenient. Leave the sex behind, or rather don\u2019t because it is interwoven into the entire canvas, and what you get is a long game of rivals trying to control the land. Double crosses, treaties made and broken, more betrayals, and a whole lot of campaigning make up the majority of the story. With a fair amount of traveling, some rough patches, and perhaps some forbidden love. Ph\u00e8dre tells the story from a position of knowledge but shows only pieces of it while walking us through her path. This allows her to foreshadow at times and point out what may be important later. It was a relaxed story telling style that fit the story well. I know this book was most likely give a new cover treatment in hopes of catching new audiences that Game of Thrones and Fifty Shades of Gray can provide. Simply by being out there again I know it got my interest and I hope it works on others s well. Because I now know this is a series that deserves a lot more readers. 4 Stars ...more 4.5 stars. A little too long generally, the beginning is too dense especially with regard to the world building in the beginning. But after the beginning and aside from the length, I loved this book. It is beautifully written, the main character is inspiring, the side characters are fun to read about, the romance is very sweet, the world created is enormous and creative. I love how the author pushes beyond what is comfortable for many people in terms of relationships and sexuality. Unlike other 4.5 stars. A little too long generally, the beginning is too dense especially with regard to the world building in the beginning. But after the beginning and aside from the length, I loved this book. It is beautifully written, the main character is inspiring, the side characters are fun to read about, the romance is very sweet, the world created is enormous and creative. I love how the author pushes beyond what is comfortable for many people in terms of relationships and sexuality. Unlike other reviews I have read, I disagree that this involves children employed in sex labor or child abuse. I understand where their percetpion comes from and respect it, I just disagree. ...more Somewhat appropriate that so much of this very, very, very long book is about masochism. Just saying. ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . I read and enjoyed Kushiel\u2019s Dart years ago after it won the Locus Award for Best First Novel and I\u2019ve recently re-read it so that I can finish the series (I\u2019ve read only the first trilogy) and move on to Ms. Carey\u2019s newer books. This time I listened to Tantor Audio\u2019s version, which was read by the incredibly talented Anne Flosnik. The Kushiel series is set in an alternate Europe which is easily recognized by its geography, language, culture, religion, myth ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . I read and enjoyed Kushiel\u2019s Dart years ago after it won the Locus Award for Best First Novel and I\u2019ve recently re-read it so that I can finish the series (I\u2019ve read only the first trilogy) and move on to Ms. Carey\u2019s newer books. This time I listened to Tantor Audio\u2019s version, which was read by the incredibly talented Anne Flosnik. The Kushiel series is set in an alternate Europe which is easily recognized by its geography, language, culture, religion, mythology, and politics (e.g., ancient Tiberium is ancient Rome, Alba is England, the Yeshuites are Christians, the Tsingani are gypsies, etc.). The greatest difference in this alternate Europe is the religion, for when Yeshua hung on the cross, his shed blood mingled with the Magdalene\u2019s tears and produced Elua, who roamed the Earth in the company of the angel Naamah who supported him by working as a prostitute. Eventually he was accepted in Terre d\u2019Ange (France), a passionate land upon whom he bestowed his beauty and whom he taught to \u201clove as thou wilt.\u201d And so they do, with little restraint and without any pesky hang-ups about heterosexuality or monogamy. In fact, men and women serve Naamah as sacred prostitutes in the Night Court. Ph\u00e8dre has been rejected by the Night Court because of the scarlet mote in her eye. But scholar Anafiel Delaunay recognizes the blemish (it\u2019s Kushiel\u2019s Dart) and what it symbolizes: Ph\u00e8dre is the first anguissette born in decades \u2014 she finds sexual pleasure in pain, and the unique services she can provide will be highly valuable to certain unconventional patrons. Anafiel purchases, fosters, and trains Ph\u00e8dre for his own unknown political machinations and hires Joscelin Verreuil, a warrior vowed to celibacy, to protect her. And so Ph\u00e8dre serves Naamah and Anafiel by loving as she wilt (and wilting as she loves) and she and Joscelin are soon caught up in dangerous court intrigues. It sounds kind of sleazy, with all the BDSM and the bastardized version of Christianity, but in Jacqueline Carey's hands it isn't sleazy \u2014 it's decadent. Mostly what sets it apart is the writing style which is beautifully lush, and even more gorgeous when read by Anne Flosnik\u2019s rich smooth voice in the audio version: \"I was flawed... To be sure, it was my eyes; and not even the pair of them, but merely the one. Such a small thing on which to hang such a fate. Nothing more than a mote, a fleck, a mere speck of color. If it had been any other hue, perhaps, it would have been a different story. My eyes, when they settled, were that color the poets call bistre, a deep and lustrous darkness, like a forest pool under the shade of ancient oaks. Outside Terre d'Ange, perhaps, one might call it brown, but the language spoke outside our nation's bounds is a pitiful thing when it comes to describing beauty. Bistre, then, rich and liquid-dark; save for the left eye, where in the iris that ringed the black pupil, a fleck of color shone... And it shone red, and indeed, red is a poor word for the color it shone. Scarlet, call it, or crimson; redder than a rooster's wattles or the glazed apple in a pig's mouth... Thus did I enter the world, with an ill-luck name and a pinprick of blood emblazoned in my gaze.\" I should mention that one issue I had with the audio version is that many of the unfamiliar French-sounding names seemed similar when read aloud and it took me longer to distinguish all the characters than it did when I read them in print. It will help to be able to look at the Dramatis Personae in the front of the book if you listen to the audiobook. There is a map in the book also, but this isn\u2019t necessary since the geography is an alternate Europe. The plot is complex and the political maneuvering is intriguing, there\u2019s plenty of adventure, and the characters are colorful. But my favorite thing about Kushiel\u2019s Dart is Joscelin. He is one of the best male heroes in fantasy literature. Tall, strong, quiet, serious, courageous, deadly, and passionate, all he has to do is stand there wearing his mail gauntlets and steel vambraces and I\u2019m completely entertained. ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . ...more This novel is one of those which could come carrying a warning label: \"flammatory material\", or a back cover blurb including: \"no liability accepted for wanton acts of a prurient nature.\" Kushiel's Dart is fantasy without the Elves, Dwarves etc, a pseudo mediaeval and feudal Europe in which each character claims allegiance to one of the ruling gods. It also constitutes soft/hard-core pornography of various persuasions, and is laced with scenes of brutal savagery - the heroine is delightfully reli This novel is one of those which could come carrying a warning label: \"flammatory material\", or a back cover blurb including: \"no liability accepted for wanton acts of a prurient nature.\" Kushiel's Dart is fantasy without the Elves, Dwarves etc, a pseudo mediaeval and feudal Europe in which each character claims allegiance to one of the ruling gods. It also constitutes soft/hard-core pornography of various persuasions, and is laced with scenes of brutal savagery - the heroine is delightfully relieved of her skin by a tribe of hunters. There's mystery and murder, minus the magic, politics between the monarchy and the ruling houses, espionage as well as traditional romance - even though the triangle angle has now been rendered old geometry, this book precedes the current fashion of threesomes and a heroine besieged with choice. In the case of Kushiel's Dart, at least the premise for such a construction is better founded than other works of fiction that don't require naming. Is it tightly paced, action packed reading? I'm not sure, but I don't think so. I found it difficult to see the trees for the...ah...purple forest. I finished (by skimming chunks) of the book, and have no interest in the series. Running the gauntlet of human experiment has never really turned me on. ...more Esta rese\u00f1a tambi\u00e9n puedes encontrarla en: Soy gente de libros En Francia tambi\u00e9n tildan, o como sea que ellos lo llamen, I mean, \u2018Ph\u00e8dre\u2019. No lo sab\u00eda. Tengo que tomar Franc\u00e9s. Terminado de leer 17/01/2016 Le\u00eddo para el 2016 Reading Challenge: #18. Libro de m\u00e1s de 600 p\u00e1ginas Le\u00eddo para el Bingo Literario 2016: Libro escrito por una mujer Love as thou wilt \u00bfOyeron eso? \u00a1\u00bfLo oyeron?! Ese fue el sonido de m\u00ed arrojando los shorts que cargaba puestos a trav\u00e9s de mi pieza. Quer\u00eda que fuesen mis pantal Esta rese\u00f1a tambi\u00e9n puedes encontrarla en: Soy gente de libros En Francia tambi\u00e9n tildan, o como sea que ellos lo llamen, I mean, \u2018Ph\u00e8dre\u2019. No lo sab\u00eda. Tengo que tomar Franc\u00e9s. Terminado de leer 17/01/2016 Le\u00eddo para el 2016 Reading Challenge: #18. Libro de m\u00e1s de 600 p\u00e1ginas Le\u00eddo para el Bingo Literario 2016: Libro escrito por una mujer Love as thou wilt \u00bfOyeron eso? \u00a1\u00bfLo oyeron?! Ese fue el sonido de m\u00ed arrojando los shorts que cargaba puestos a trav\u00e9s de mi pieza. Quer\u00eda que fuesen mis pantaletas, pero vivo en una casa donde el concepto de privacidad no es comprendido (o solo es ol\u00edmpicamente ignorado, IDK) as\u00ed que para evitar posibles momentos inc\u00f3modos, vamos a dejarlo solo en los shorts. Les mostrar\u00eda tal y como estoy, pero me averg\u00fcenza demasiado mi celulitis. Se las debo. \u00bfY por qu\u00e9 Caly est\u00e1 cometiendo actos de desnudismo? Porque Kushiel\u2019s dart ha destruido por completo la pureza de Caly, su raciocinio y casi-casi su noci\u00f3n de verg\u00fcenza. Casi. Lo dicho: mi mam\u00e1 acaba de meterse violentamente a mi pieza dizque a ver si tengo fiebre, porque s\u00ed, tengo un horrible resfriado (\u00bfpor qu\u00e9 la perra inspiraci\u00f3n me viene precisamente cuando estoy m\u00e1s de all\u00e1 que de ac\u00e1? #Maldita) En fin, \u00bfen qu\u00e9 estaba? Cierto, que he sido despuritizada, y #IRegretNothing. O casi. Porque no quiero pensar que es mera coincidencia. No creo en las coincidencias. Ahora que no soy pura, vengo a tener un gusto espantoso. Porque bueno, ehm\u2026, uhmmmm\u2026, esto\u2026, megustaKyloRen. Lo dije, lo admito y afronto valientemente mi verg\u00fcenza. Sucedi\u00f3 as\u00ed: en diciembre (como muchos) vi Star Wars, descubr\u00ed que soy Star Wars trash, que amo a los gemelos Organa-Skywalker, a Han Solo, a Chewie; a los nuevos, Finn, Poe y Rey, oh Rey I\u2019m so having your babies, de hecho, quiero un beb\u00e9: Finn/Poe/Rey (is too much to ask for?) Y que el sucesor del mal aka Kylo Ren es una total y absoluta mierda, mi beloved Darth Vader must be so embarrassed. Que tanto al personaje como al actor les falta un buen recorrido para estar a la altura (again, not like my baby Rey, she\u2019s so fuckin\u2019 perfect) y que para desenga\u00f1o de todos, Kylo Ren (a pesar de su magn\u00edfica gen\u00e9tica) es feo. Que todav\u00eda lo sigo pensando, que tampoco soy ciega, solo corta de vista. Pas\u00f3 un mes. Bienvenido enero, bienvenido 2016. Bienvenido Kushiel\u2019s dart o como me gusta llamarlo: Best shit I ever read. (Que s\u00ed, a pesar de mis desvar\u00edos Star War\u00edsticos, esto es acerca de Kushiel\u2019s dart) Y s\u00ed, leo a Kushiel\u2019s dart y me gusta y transcurre un tiempo (\u00bfalgo as\u00ed como una semana?) Ya Caly era non-pura. Y sucede que recibo una notificaci\u00f3n a mi correo que una autora de Fanfiction que me gusta mucho; a la que conoc\u00ed (no personalmente, of course) por escribir fanfics dentro del fandom del anime de InuYasha, espec\u00edficamente el ship de Sesshomaru-sama y Kagome Higurashi (S\u00ed, me gustan los ships imposibles), ha escrito un nuevo fic *emoci\u00f3n, emoci\u00f3n, emoci\u00f3n* Caly sale corriendo hacia el link. Y se da cuenta de algo. Se trata de un fic de Star Wars. Bear Goddess, could it be better?! Could it???? Contin\u00faan por varios minutos muestras diversas de fangirlismo exacerbado. Entonces Caly, toda \u201cemocionadita\u201d va a ver de qu\u00e9 va el fic \u00bfSer\u00e1 acerca de Darth Vader, Luke, maybe a Leia/Han Solo, Rey/Finn, Poe/Finn, Rey/Poe/Finn (se vale so\u00f1ar, \u00bfno?)? Joder, es que habr\u00eda estado feliz si fuese un R2D2/BB-8 fic. Pero no se\u00f1ores. Habr\u00eda esperado incluso algo como esto: *Caly se queda fr\u00eda* *Mira con incredulidad la pantalla* *Sin creerse lo que ve, se quita los lentes y limpia los cristales con el borde de la camisa que lleva puesta* *Se pone los lentes y mira de nuevo* *Sin reponerse todav\u00eda de la impresi\u00f3n y m\u00e1s que estupefacta trata de procesar lo que ha visto* Un Kylo Ren/Ben Solo & Rey FIC???????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! \u00bfQu\u00e9 es lo pr\u00f3ximo? \u00bfUn Poe/Kylo Ren, Finn/Kylo Ren? El maldito rarito EMO-cional con daddy\u2019s issues a uno lo tortur\u00f3 y a otro trat\u00f3 de matarlo, for God\u2019s sake!!!! Y d\u00e9jenme contarles lo peor. Existen fanfics donde el ship es Finn/Kylo Ren, Poe/Kylo Ren Sin recuperarse todav\u00eda de la conmoci\u00f3n que siente, Caly va a verificar algo. Tiene que. Va a la p\u00e1gina principal del fandom de Star Wars (again, que ya vio que hay montones de fics donde Kylo Ren es shippeado con Poe y Finn) pues ahora va y configura, y lo ve: cientos y cientos de fics acerca del ship Kylo Ren/Rey \u00a1\u00a1\u00a1Cientos!!! Y como es masoquista, ve cuantos fics hay escritos del ship Finn/Rey (que es el ship que arm\u00f3 en cuanto vio la peli) y su mundo tears apart. Si hay una docena, es mucho. I expected more from you *Caly screams, screams and screams* What is wrong with you, PPL????!!!! She\u2019s so beautiful, brave, luminous and so meant to Finn. And he\u2026 HE. He\u2019s such a brat, an emo boy with daddy issues that fights like a mad man not like his grandpa who was a cold beast with the lightsaber and the Force in general. And worse: HE\u2019S UGLY. UGH, UGH, UGH. Can you just stop for a moment and think what kind of prog\u00e9nie could come from this??? And it\u2019s not just he\u2019s ugly af, don\u2019t you remember they could be cousins??? INCEST, INCEST EVERYWHERE!!! Though, I\u2019m hoping she\u2019s a Kenobi. Skywalker boys really deserve a hard kick in the ass from the Kenobis. Despu\u00e9s de mucho (realmente mucho) despotricar, Caly se detiene, analiza y decide leer el maldito fic, porque recuerda lo excelente autora que le pareci\u00f3 la autora de este Reylo fic (ese es el nombre del Kylo Ren/Rey ship) con el anime InuYasha, los maravillosos momentos vividos y lo m\u00e1s perturbador, que recuerda que es una gone girl que ha perdido completamente su dulce pureza y ya qu\u00e9, qu\u00e9 m\u00e1s da. So come here, bitch *Reading\u2026* *Reading\u2026* *Reading\u2026* *Reading\u2026* *Reading\u2026* *Reading\u2026* Y entonces, sucedi\u00f3 algo como esto: Se\u00f1ores que soy \u2018Dramione\u2019 trash y deb\u00ed pens\u00e1rmelo mejor y probablemente no estar\u00eda en este tormento \u2018Reylo\u2019 en el que ahora me encuentro. El twisted, torment, and dark boy, the luminous, brave and strong girl\u2026 Es lo que me prende. El fic me transport\u00f3 a mis d\u00edas de \u2018Dramionera\u2019 y nada qu\u00e9 hacer. Todav\u00eda sigo pensando que el tipo es feo y est\u00e1 mal caracterizado, pero el fic me mostr\u00f3 tanto potencial, buena escritura, profundidad, oportunidad, que ahora no solo amo a Rey y el ship, me encanta la mierda de Kylo Ren. Ahora paso mis d\u00edas leyendo \u2018Reylo\u2019 fics (donde ella es su Padawan, otro donde tienen una beb\u00e9, que pobrecita se parece a \u00e9l, y el resto, los que he desechado y la gran mayor\u00eda, donde tienen sexo como posesos cada cinco p\u00e1rrafos, gente, que hab\u00eda uno que se llamaba \u201c50 sombras de Rey\u201d pueden morir ahora, I know) tambi\u00e9n veo fanarts (hay una obscena cantidad de ellos) y amvs, que por cierto uno de los que descargu\u00e9 y he reproducido tanto que ya lleg\u00f3 al primer lugar de mi playlist (de hecho lo tengo de fondo mientras escribo esa rese\u00f1a) Y todo esto en conjunto me ha llevado a casi dos semanas y media de \u2018reading slump\u2019 y tambi\u00e9n writing, no he podido sentarme a escribir nada desde que \u2018Reylo\u2019 entr\u00f3 en mi vida, y cuando lo he hecho, justo como ahora, solo ha sido para hablar acerca de ello. No me concentro, no leo, no escribo. Solo respiro \u2018Reylo\u2019. Send help, people. I need it. Plizz, someone slap me, hard. Gad, I\u2019m hopeless. Y todo es culpa de Kushiel\u2019s dart, si no hubiese le\u00eddo ese libro tan perverso no me imagino cayendo en esta mierda. Entonces, \u00bfqu\u00e9 nos trae este libro, adem\u00e1s de perdici\u00f3n? BDSM (yo inocentemente comenc\u00e9 a leerlo sin informarme primero acerca de esta tendencia) mucha pol\u00edtica de la buenaza, un mundo o setting donde Francia luego de la \u00e9poca cristiana sufre un twist y tenemos una sociedad altamente culta, altamente mon\u00e1rquica y sobre todo altamente pervertida sexualmente y por supuesto lo mejor para el final; Juego de tronos como ninguno, me remito a las pruebas: Y ya con esto en mano, me pregunto, \u00bfqui\u00e9n se inspir\u00f3 (plagi\u00f3) de qui\u00e9n, Martin de esta do\u00f1a, o esta do\u00f1a de Martin? Tengo que averiguarlo, mira que este libro tiene sus a\u00f1os. Aunque bien podr\u00eda ser que las mentes brillantes piensen igual, sehhhhh. Algo que me complaci\u00f3 mucho de este libro (a qui\u00e9n enga\u00f1o, todo me gust\u00f3) es que encuentro un muy fuerte esp\u00edritu feminista en la protagonista. Ella es fuerte, decidida, llena de recursos, inteligente, due\u00f1a y se\u00f1ora de su sexualidad, sin complejos y que a la hora de la hora no teme pedir ayuda y no se siente menos por ello. He percibido que muchos toman por recibir ayuda como debilidad, que eso te hace menos a m\u00ed parecer, yo en lo particular percibo como una jugada inteligente unir esfuerzos con alguien y aprovechar lo mejor de ese alguien para tu causa. IDK, ll\u00e1menme loca. Probablemente a otros no les parezca feminista, porque bueno, le\u00ed algunas rese\u00f1as que dec\u00edan que a Ph\u00e8dre la humillaban y blah, blah, que la maltrataban. Gente, que esto es un BDSM (uno bien escrito, btw) y ella es una masoquista. Ella obtiene placer a partir del dolor. Y no solo eso, ella escoge con qui\u00e9n y qu\u00e9. Por si no lo saben, existe una palabra clave que se establece en el contrato entre las dos partes, amo y sumisa, en el cual la sumisa si siente que no puede soportar lo que se le est\u00e1 haciendo dice su palabra y la otra persona debe detenerse inmediatamente. Es consensual. BDSM aparte, me parece excelente lo due\u00f1a de su sexualidad que es Ph\u00e8dre. Ella, para hablar claro, ser\u00eda una prostituta. En este mundo existen varios santos (como todos tienen su sistema de creencias) y una de ellos en particular es llamada Naamah, ella era acompa\u00f1ante de Elua (otro santo) y en sus vidas mortales ella se prostituy\u00f3 varias veces en primer lugar para que Elua pudiese ser liberado de la c\u00e1rcel y en otras para que Elua pudiese comer. A partir de esto existe la Corte de la Noche, un gremio de trece casas del placer que rinden culto a Naamah, y son trece, porque son trece distintas razones por las cuales se dice que Naamah se prostituy\u00f3, que si por amor, por placer, por poder, etc., Poniendo las cartas sobre la mesa, tenemos que s\u00ed, pervertidos: rezarle a Naamah equivale a tener sexo. Todos somos santos de una forma u otra en este mundo ficticio. *Salen todos corriendo hacerse ac\u00f3litos del culto de Naamah* El libro es bastante denso, largo y ca\u00eda f\u00e1cilmente en lo descriptivo. Tenemos a Ph\u00e8dre desde que es ni\u00f1a, es abandonada por sus padres porque es una indeseada que tiene una especie de mancha roja en uno de sus ojos que luego se revela que es lo que la marca como una elegida del santo Kushiel y lo que la hace disfrutar del dolor. Su paso por una casa de la noche, su crianza bajo el cuidado de Anafiel Delaunay *hace inciso para llorar de amor por Delaunay* su amistad con Hyacinthe, con Alcuin, su entrada al servicio de Naamah, sus asignaciones (como sirviente de Naamah), su participaci\u00f3n en los esquemas pol\u00edticos y juego de tronos de Delaunay, Melisande Shahrizai, Oh Melisande Shahrizai\u2026 Que esto es lo que se me ocurre cuando me dicen Shahrizai: Y s\u00ed, tenemos un \u201cOh, Melisande Shahrizai\u201d *sighs* hablando claro es mi primera book girlfriend, es una MALDITA, una completa hija del se\u00f1or, pr\u00edncipe de la oscuridad y las tinieblas. Por Sat\u00e1n que Melisande es M-A-L-A. Se acuerdan de Cersei, bueno, en comparaci\u00f3n Cersie es una blanca paloma, qu\u00e9 paloma, una beb\u00e9 de pecho que solo se saca la teta para seguirse chupando el dedo. \u00bfLo deletreo otra vez? M-A-L-A, es la novia de Darth Vader, el Darkling y lo que Kylo Ren y Cersei quieren ser cuando sean grandes. *sighs* \u00bfC\u00f3mo se los explico? Es del tipo que te estar\u00edas desangrando (a causa suya) enfrente suyo y te mirar\u00eda con sus muy hermos\u00edsimos ojos, con una mirada coqueta y con voz tan dulce como la miel te dir\u00eda: cari\u00f1o, lev\u00e1ntate, que me arruinas la alfombra. Melisande Shahrizai (Es tan maldita que todav\u00eda te dir\u00eda esto:) Me: Otra historia de amor no destinada a ser. I know. Lo bueno: TODO. Okay no, vamos a escoger solo una cosa (o tres): Joscelin, el Hermano Cassilino (una especie de sacerdote peleador) su evoluci\u00f3n me agrad\u00f3 mucho, es en esencia la misma persona desde el comienzo hasta el final, con su honor Cassilino y blah, blah, pero bueno, menos estre\u00f1ido. Y lo del culto de Naamah, s\u00ed, soy pervertida. A partir de este culto ficticio, estoy considerando seriamente (a conveniencia) retomar mis actos de fe (de una forma m\u00e1s bien a lo Naamah) Y que Melisande es feminismo por excelencia, ya nos merec\u00edamos una villana como ella, es que ella ser\u00eda algo as\u00ed como la edici\u00f3n especial repotenciada de Cersei con juguetes y habilidades para el sadomasoquismo incluidas. Lo malo: Muy largo. Lo feo: Nada que reportar. P.S.: Ahora cuando tenga sexo dir\u00e9: no estoy cogiendo, estoy rez\u00e1ndole a Naamah. P.S.2.: Lo que me digo a m\u00ed misma cada vez que recuerdo que soy Kylo Ren trash: por lo menos es alto como su abuelito. Canci\u00f3n para este libro: Sweet dreams de Emily Browning \u00bfLo tengo que explicar? Some of them want to use you, some of them want to get use by you, some of them want to abuse you, some of them want to be abuse. See? ...more This is one of my favourite books for these two reasons, \"Love as thou wilt\" and \"That which yields is not always weak.\" This book (and the books that follow) is an incredibly detailed, involved, beautiful story and I can't really do it any justice. The plot is intricate, the characters are vivid and Carey rarely leaves you a moment where you're not anticipating... something. That said, it is graphic (to an extent. It's not quite romance novel graphic, but it's close) and it depicts violent acts This is one of my favourite books for these two reasons, \"Love as thou wilt\" and \"That which yields is not always weak.\" This book (and the books that follow) is an incredibly detailed, involved, beautiful story and I can't really do it any justice. The plot is intricate, the characters are vivid and Carey rarely leaves you a moment where you're not anticipating... something. That said, it is graphic (to an extent. It's not quite romance novel graphic, but it's close) and it depicts violent acts of a sexual nature. But even if S&M's not your cup of tea, it's also not the primary focus of the book and it also doesn't take away from the story. Each act and scene (sexual and otherwise) is not gratuitous. They serve as a way to demonstrate character development and move the plot along at a vigorous breath-taking pace. I highly recommend this to anyone who is a fan of fantasy sans the magic and dragons. I'd put this more on par with alt-history and the perspective has an almost Victorian narration to it. Still, it's an amazing read and is at least worth a visit if you're looking for something new. ...more Re-Read May 3, 2011 Just thinking that I would have missed or not enjoyed this lush, well-crafted first novel because it did not fit many of the standard romance tropes makes me so thankful that I am a fantasy reader FIRST and a romance reader afterwards. I realize that may sound a tad elitist, but I've found that romance and its readership tend to be pretty hidebound when it comes to tropes. That means for a novel like this one where the heroine is a courtesan (and her assignations are not hinte Re-Read May 3, 2011 Just thinking that I would have missed or not enjoyed this lush, well-crafted first novel because it did not fit many of the standard romance tropes makes me so thankful that I am a fantasy reader FIRST and a romance reader afterwards. I realize that may sound a tad elitist, but I've found that romance and its readership tend to be pretty hidebound when it comes to tropes. That means for a novel like this one where the heroine is a courtesan (and her assignations are not hinted at), most romance readers would balk. Oh, and I love epic-sized books. I am a true fantasy snob in that aspect. I love the richness and the complexity of the world of Terre d'Ange, with its fascinating spin on judeo-christian belief. I love the skillful blend of sex, politics, love and magic. I especially adore Phedre no Delaunay, probably one of the most unusual and captivating protagonists in fiction. I love being inside her head and her body; her strength of will and her fierce, passionate loyalty. I adore the powerful and passionate Casseline protector, Joscelin Verreuil and the loyal Prince of Travelers Hyacinthe. Once again I have lost myself within the heady pages of this novel, and like that first time, I am loathe to leave the seductive wiles of Phedre, Anafiel and the wickedly delicious Melisande Shahrizai. One thing that can be said for most readers of fantasy/science/ speculative fiction, is that while we generally like to be entertained, we also love to be challenged. We're not tied to hidebound notions of \"the way things should be\"; rather we are far more interested in the way things \"could be\", or \"might have been\". Kushiel's Dart is part alternative history, part romance, part adventure story, and part magical journey. Phedre is one of those intriguing heroines who stretches the limits of what a heroine should be. Is she merely a passive plaything at the hands of a master manipulator, or is she a subtle player in a larger game that even the reader is unaware of? Like Michael Moorcock's intriguing albino, Elric, Phedre is also blessed/cursed with a rather interesting \"gift\", and it is the use of this \"gift\" that forms much of the crux of the novel. Amazingly, this was author Jacqueline Carey's first novel, and she is to be commended for writing a multi-faceted tale that takes the reader beyond what a fantasy book can be. This is a huge and lush novel that is to be savored in small bits, and enjoyed like a box of truffles. I am left wanting more from this author, and I am certain that any first time readers will be feeling the same way. ...more This is one of those series I've seen around for years but have never happened to pick up. In my mind I linked it with the lusty-but-wholesome Outlander books, I think, so when I finally read the back of the first volume my eyebrows nearly climbed up into my hair. An alternate medieval Europe, where Christianity has not caught on, and where the (alternate) French have raised prostitution and pleasure to an art form and turned sex into a religious act? A heroine who is marked from birth as a to This is one of those series I've seen around for years but have never happened to pick up. In my mind I linked it with the lusty-but-wholesome Outlander books, I think, so when I finally read the back of the first volume my eyebrows nearly climbed up into my hair. An alternate medieval Europe, where Christianity has not caught on, and where the (alternate) French have raised prostitution and pleasure to an art form and turned sex into a religious act? A heroine who is marked from birth as a torture addict, and who uses her charms to become the ultimate kinky Mata Hari? With a description like that, there was no way I was not going to at least TRY to read Kushiel's Dart . At 901 pages in paperback, this book was a couple hundred pages too long, and a few times I considered just putting it down. For most of the book, the heroine's addiction to pain felt gratuitous\u2014especially for as much as the plot dwells on it\u2014as if the author just wanted to write about someone like that, without there being a real reason for it. Furthermore, there are several characters and subplots that are incompletely explored and motivated. For all its weaknesses, however, the story won me over by the end. I'll probably end up reading the sequel. And then I'll take it from there. ...more It's done. I have read this book. And I am not quite sure how to really put into words what it made me feel and what I thought of it. Sometimes words lack to really convey what you'd like to say, but I will try to the best of my ability. This is one of the best books in the fantasy genre I've read in a while. I don't fancy myself to be very knowledgeable in the workings of the genre, since I haven't read half as many authors and books I would like to, but I can say without a doubt that few of the It's done. I have read this book. And I am not quite sure how to really put into words what it made me feel and what I thought of it. Sometimes words lack to really convey what you'd like to say, but I will try to the best of my ability. This is one of the best books in the fantasy genre I've read in a while. I don't fancy myself to be very knowledgeable in the workings of the genre, since I haven't read half as many authors and books I would like to, but I can say without a doubt that few of the fantasy books I've read before in my life have made me feel quite the range of emotions this story has. One might not be completely sure of what to expect when one starts to read the book. As you start reading, you realize that you're thrown into a society that seems strange at first but is actually reminiscent of medievel Europe, except when it comes to how it treats prostitution. In fact, the main character's views regarding her work as a courtesan was a source of occasional frustration, even more so due to her unique \"gift\", but you couldn't help but understand the culture and even come to accept it, for it was so well portrayed, especially as seen by the eyes of Ph\u00e9dre. As you get into the reading, you start to see exactly how good Jacqueline Carey is, as you're drawn into an intricate story of politics, love, betrayal, and adventure, written in exquisite and breathtaking detail and pace. Despite its 900 pages, you never get bored throughout the reading, even during the \"calmer\" moments. The story is woven in such a way that you cannot put the book down until you've read just one more chapter, just one more... the history of the land is seamlessly told through Ph\u00e9dre as she goes through the events of her life, as she observes, analyzes and follows the path she was chosen to thread. The characters are a breath of fresh air, and one of the great assets of this incredible book. I am a firm believer on the idea that you can have a great plot but if your characters cannot carry it, the book will be but mediocre. Carey's novel manages to have an intricate plot and amazingly three-dimentional characters, from the main to the secondary, each with their own multifaceted personalities, and distinctive desires, merits, flaws, and habits. A story that has a bit of everything, including a flowery speech that might become annoying to some but that I absolutely loved, as it fit perfectly with story and the world. Granted, it was incredibly hard keeping up with all the characters in the story and since it took me a while to read the book in the beginning (quite a lot of other readings in-between for bookrings and the such), some of the initial details were forgotten. I could not remember how Alcuin came to be with Delaunay, for example, and I had to backtrack when I reached a part of the book where such information might have helped me understand why the boy would know anything about Isabel de la Courcel's murder... It is an incredibly complext novel, with so many plots and subplots you will be on the edge of your seat/bed/whatever trying to find how it ends but might confuse you at times if you don't pay attention (the intricate political games and plots within plots remind me of my favourite series of all, George R. R. Martin's \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" series, which I recommend to anyone who liked this novel). The book is not one for the faint of heart, especially when one sees the back blurb and notices important descriptions like \"experience pleasure and pain as one\" and \"trained equally in the courtly arts and the talents of the bed-chamber\". It treats sex as a fairly normal, even revered, part of D'Angeline life, where the greatest tenet is \"love as thou will\". It is disturbing in some of its most shocking scenes of torture and sadomasochistic games... but these aspects are such a seamless part of the entire book and its main character that you accept it and understand it and love the novel no less for it. All I can say, in the end, is that I absolutely loved this novel, even if sometimes I felt like slapping Ph\u00e9dre, especially when it came to her feelings regarding one Melisande... I highly recommend this novel. Of course, now I have to suffer until I can get my hads on a copy of the following two novels in this trilogy. Oh, Elua help me endure... ...more", "Title": "Kushiel's Dart"},
