{"Comments": "I originally picked up this book because the cover intrigued me. I read the back and was impressed by the concept of the book. I love reading about adventures but was having a hard time finding books to read because they were becoming predictable. I was pleasantly surprised with <+++>Aegis Rising</+++>; it has a little something for everyone and tons of different ideas that marry together wonderfully. My only complaint was that I finished it too quickly and I couldn't put it down! I'm impatiently waiting f I originally picked up this book because the cover intrigued me. I read the back and was impressed by the concept of the book. I love reading about adventures but was having a hard time finding books to read because they were becoming predictable. I was pleasantly surprised with <+++>Aegis Rising</+++>; it has a little something for everyone and tons of different ideas that marry together wonderfully. My only complaint was that I finished it too quickly and I couldn't put it down! I'm impatiently waiting for the next books and when the movie comes out I'm going to be at the midnight premier! I was also very excited to find out about Aegis League. I enjoy trying to do good things in the world and this made it so easy; get a great book and help make a change at the same time!!! I can\u2019t think of anything better! ...more I love this type of books - the good vs evil stories that you know will end up with good winning but you simply can't stop reading anyway! In 'Aegis Rising' <---A>S.S. Segran</---A> has created a whole world full of adventures, fantasy and non-stop action. I really enjoyed the story and how it progressed - I was hooked more and more with each and every page! I'll be definitely waiting for, not only the sequel but any new book from this author. An A+ isn't enough to rate 'Aegis Rising'! I thoroughly enjoyed this book. My only complaint is that real life kept getting in the way of my reading. I was intrigued when the prologue began in 500 B.C. and from that moment on I was hooked. As we fast forward to present day we find ourselves on a perilous plane ride with 5 close friends all terrified and confused. They awaken in a hidden valley inhabited by the most amazing individuals they have ever met. Hidden from civilization for centuries, the villagers live a quiet life in tune with I thoroughly enjoyed this book. My only complaint is that real life kept getting in the way of my reading. I was intrigued when the prologue began in 500 B.C. and from that moment on I was hooked. As we fast forward to present day we find ourselves on a perilous plane ride with 5 close friends all terrified and confused. They awaken in a hidden valley inhabited by the most amazing individuals they have ever met. Hidden from civilization for centuries, the villagers live a quiet life in tune with nature. The village elders display an incredible insight into the human mind and all its potential. Life in the village seems perfect but things are about to change. Our five teenagers will begin an incredible adventure that will change them forever. I was so impressed to discover that the writer of this incredible novel was just a teenager. The writing style is superb and their narrative prowess is extraordinary. The 5 main characters are described in such detail that I could close my eyes and see them in front of me. The attention to detail when describing the valley and the inhabitants is awe inspiring. There are some real lessons to be learned as we come face to face with modern day progress and the impact and devastation it can cause if not closely monitored. We begin to explore the depths of the human spirit when faced with adversity and greed and we watch as our 5 youths learn about themselves and the inherent powers of the mind. If you enjoy adventure, and sci-fi then I highly recommend this book. I do caution that some of the action content is very descriptive and intense and would best be suited to 12 and older and will appeal to teens and adults alike. I applaud this young authors debut novel and I will be following them very closely in anticipation of their next creation. Do you want to win a copy of this book? enter here http://kaleydavies.com/aegis-rising-g... ...<---F>more Aegis Rising by S</---F>.S. Segran is the first book in the Aegis League Series. This is a brilliantly written sci-fi adventure for young adults. It\u2019s a story about the struggle between good and evil. Five teenagers on a small plane get caught up in a storm - Mariah, Kody, Aari, Tegan and Jag. Both engines are irreparably damaged and it crashes in a remote area. The mysterious inhabitants help them recover. They discover this tribe has advanced and extraordinary capabilities e.g. healing skills, lingui Aegis Rising by S.S. Segran is the first book in the Aegis League Series. This is a brilliantly written sci-fi adventure for young adults. It\u2019s a story about the struggle between good and evil. Five teenagers on a small plane get caught up in a storm - Mariah, Kody, Aari, Tegan and Jag. Both engines are irreparably damaged and it crashes in a remote area. The mysterious inhabitants help them recover. They discover this tribe has advanced and extraordinary capabilities e.g. healing skills, linguistic abilities etc. The tribe believes they are the five chosen ones that have come to fulfill an ancient prophecy. In the prophecy they are to stand against a secretive global alliance with malevolent intentions. As the action-packed plot unfolds, we discover it is their destiny. Fantastic read, would definitely recommend! ...more Thoroughly enjoyable. From the moment you get started with the prologue set in 500 B.C. with its rich description and flashback of a civilization nearing its demise, you are drawn into an amazing world filled with intrigue. Fast forward to the present day and you are immediately introduced to the 5 teenage protagonist in a perilous situation before they get swept away into a breathtaking adventure. The writing style is very descriptive and the original voice of the author is magnetic. What an am Thoroughly enjoyable. From the moment you get started with the prologue set in 500 B.C. with its rich description and flashback of a civilization nearing its demise, you are drawn into an amazing world filled with intrigue. Fast forward to the present day and you are immediately introduced to the 5 teenage protagonist in a perilous situation before they get swept away into a breathtaking adventure. The writing style is very descriptive and the original voice of the author is magnetic. What an amazing debut novel by this teenage author! I for one will be following her closely. The juxtaposition of the serenity of the hidden valley and the chaos that is unleashed on its mysterious inhabitants create a great contrast and allows for an exciting development of the key characters. The Elders of village really do draw you in with their amazing insights into the powers inherent in nature and the human spirit. I would highly recommend this book to all sci-fi and adventure fans. I would be careful though as there are a few intense action scenes that may not be suitable for younger readers (<---B>under 12 perhaps</---B>). However, there are a number of interesting and thought provoking philosophical concepts that the author has thoughtfully sprinkled throughout the book that will make great classroom debates and discussions. So for teachers and educators, this novel could be a great tool to explore the questions about the the progress and excess of civilization,<---M> the workings of the human spirit</---M>, the potential powers of the mind etc. No to mention the pure entertainment value and the thrill of the adventure itself! Go get yourself a copy and enjoy! ...more This book is for anyone, both adults and teenagers, who enjoy adventured-filled sci-fi and fantasy novels. Segran is a talented young author and I can't wait to see what comes next--both in this series, and down the road. The book is written with great maturity, yet has the imagination and passion of a truly creative mind. There is a nice balance of suspense to keep you wanting more. I am not surprised Aegis Rising hit #1 on Amazon\u2019s Young Adult category. This is a gem of novel that deserves that recognition and more! The novel begins with a lush description set in 500 BC as we see an ancient vessel carrying the survivors of an advance civilization arrive at the shores of the Pacific Northwest. After an initial skirmish with the local inhabitants, the \u2018outsiders\u2019 make peace with them and over time the two groups intermingle and become one people. Fast forward to the present an I am not surprised Aegis Rising hit #1 on Amazon\u2019s Young Adult category. This is a gem of novel that deserves that recognition and more! The novel begins with a lush description set in 500 BC as we see an ancient vessel carrying the survivors of an advance civilization arrive at the shores of the Pacific Northwest. After an initial skirmish with the local inhabitants, the \u2018outsiders\u2019 make peace with them and over time the two groups intermingle and become one people. Fast forward to the present and we are introduced to the five teenage protagonists in a perilous situation. As their plane catches fire and slowly spirals out of the sky, a group of villagers living secretly in a hidden valley (Dema-Ki) observe intently at the shocking sight which appears to unfold as described in their prophecy. The teens survive the crash and are brought unconscious to Dema-Ki by five mysterious creatures. Nursed back to health by the villagers, the friends are shocked when the enigmatic Elders of the village pronounce that the five are the ones foretold in their prophecy. And so begins a life-changing adventure as the teens evolve from first rejecting the prophecy to eventually accepting the possibility of it being true, especially after experiencing a series of baffling events. The five friends accept the training that the Elders provide them as required by the prophecy. The training prepares them for a pivotal role where they will have to stand against a malevolent force that is gathering in the outside world. This author is gifted with an almost ethereal talent for storytelling. Her words are captivating and draws you in to the world that she has created. You happily invest yourself as a not only a reader but as a participant in the story as it unfolds. I look forward to her next book in the series. I am already longing to go back into the Aegis world. ...more This is a dramatic, fast paced book right from the get go. The author switches the view point cleanly between the main protagonists allowing you to get to know, and (mostly) sympathize with them throughout their dramas. I enjoy this style of writing; it means I don't have time to get bored of any of the characters before I'm whisked away to another story line, and keeps them all fresh. I loved the inclusion of the 'people of Dema-Ki' (the Hidden Valley), who we gradually learn more about as the s This is a dramatic, fast paced book right from the get go. The author switches the view point cleanly between the main protagonists allowing you to get to know, and (mostly) sympathize with them throughout their dramas. I enjoy this style of writing; it means I don't have time to get bored of any of the characters before I'm whisked away to another story line, and keeps them all fresh. I loved the inclusion of the 'people of Dema-Ki' (the Hidden Valley), who we gradually learn more about as the story unfolds; they are the keepers of the ancient prophecy which, they believe, is fulfilled by the survivors of a plane crash. Those survivors are a group of normal teenagers, who are trying to cope with their lives being turned upside down by the prophecy....with giant bears, crazed red-eyed wolves and a mysterious organization that is hell-bent of changing the world as we know it for apocalyptic reasons! I've read a lot of science fiction/fantasy books, I found this one easy to read, full of drama, and wanting more :) definitely recommended. ...more Amazing book by such a young author. Couldn't put it down. Such an imaginative story that takes you on a journey like no other. Cannot wait to read the next installment. S.S. Segran is a master when it comes to writing action-adventure/sci-fi! When I purchased this book for my Kindle I originally got it for my daughter. As I was scanning it to make sure there was no unsuitable content I found myself irresistibly drawn in to the story and found that I couldn't put the book down. I read the entire story from beginning to end in one sitting (a rather long one!). I have not been this intrigued and excited over a book in quite some time! The story flows effortlessly a S.S. Segran is a master when it comes to writing action-adventure/sci-fi! When I purchased this book for my Kindle I originally got it for my daughter. As I was scanning it to make sure there was no unsuitable content I found myself irresistibly drawn in to the story and found that I couldn't put the book down. I read the entire story from beginning to end in one sitting (a rather long one!). I have not been this intrigued and excited over a book in quite some time! The story flows effortlessly and the setting and characters draw you in. I found myself invested in the main characters and constantly looking out for them. Throughout the read it felt like I was right there with them. S.S.Segran has created an amazing world in Aegis Rising, one that the reader does not wish to leave when the book come to an end. And the good news is we don\u2019t have to wait for long. I learnt from the author\u2019s website that Book Two is to be published in November/December! I will certainly be looking out for it. This is one of the most memorable books I have read. Some of my favorite authors could not have accomplished what this young lady has. I would recommend this book to anyone young and old alike that wish to escape reality for a while and enter into a world of mystery, adventure, sci-fi with tons of action yet with a wonderful underlying, refreshing message for youths and the young at heart! ...more Prepared to be swept away I loved this book! The author, S.S. Segran, has created an action-packed story filled with some original and textured characters I enjoyed getting to know. Creative and delightful to the core, this first book in the Aegis League series is reminiscent of a combination of The Game of Thrones and City of Bones for young adults with its cast of teenagers surmounting incredible obstacles in a richly woven plot. My favorite aspect of this book is the author\u2019s exquisite descript Prepared to be swept away I loved this book! The author, S.S. Segran, has created an action-packed story filled with some original and textured characters I enjoyed getting to know. Creative and delightful to the core, this first book in the Aegis League series is reminiscent of a combination of The Game of Thrones and City of Bones for young adults with its cast of teenagers surmounting incredible obstacles in a richly woven plot. My favorite aspect of this book is the author\u2019s exquisite descriptions of the landscapes of the story. The ability to craft descriptive, but not boring, prose is a gift that is on display in this book and is the mark of a true storyteller. I was able to vividly conjure up images of the characters and setting in a way that added to the intrigue and engagement I felt while reading. S.S. Segran also did a fine job of developing the characters such that I felt I knew each of the five protagonists very well. For the fast-paced, engaging plot and the cross-genre appeal (action, adventure, fantasy) for both young and older adults, I give this refreshingly unique book a much-deserved 5 stars. ...more A group of five teenage friends are tossed into a lost civilization when the plane they are traveling in is struck by lightning and crashes. The book is filled with many influences from Lost to Percy Jackson to the survivalist action of the Hunger games, yet manages to stand on its own as a daring and original work that should appeal to the targeted young adult demographic and beyond to older readers. I had a lot of fun reading this book and eagerly look forward to the next book in the series. An entertaining young adult novel about five teens whose plane crashes in the wilds of Northern British Columbia. They are taken in by a native tribe and are believed to be the fulfillment of some ancient prophesy. The characters are engaging and believable. I picked up the book because I met the young author, Shareen Segran, at the writers group I belong to. She is only 18 so I had to check it out. She is a very talented writer and I am sure she has a great career as a writer ahead of her. I really enjoyed this book- Aegis Rising. It is very engaging and a good read. I love how the plot plays out and it is indeed quite different from many of the books I read recently. The author, S.S. Segran has created the characters who are interesting and feel very real. I can feel how the five teens went through when their plane crashes. I think the author has a great future and I look forward to more books from her. My love for a good Action novel made this story especially enjoyable. Of course, it didn't hurt that the author has an amazing talent for creating imagery with great details. The sensational plot had me hooked from the first chapter! It's a fast and fun read that I would recommend to anyone with a passion for beguiling story lines, or anyone looking to dip their toes into the Sci-Fi/Mystery genre. I can't wait to see what comes next! Aegis Rising is a very enjoyable read. The action is quite interesting with its vivid imagery and captivating storyline. The characters are able to sweep you away into their lives and along with them on their journey. I just love books that can do that to the reader. It's fun to get lost in a book the way I did with this one. It isn't just for young adults as anyone who loves this genre can enjoy and get lost in it. What a wonderfully well thought out story. I'm very happy to have found this aut Aegis Rising is a very enjoyable read. The action is quite interesting with its vivid imagery and captivating storyline. The characters are able to sweep you away into their lives and along with them on their journey. I just love books that can do that to the reader. It's fun to get lost in a book the way I did with this one. It isn't just for young adults as anyone who loves this genre can enjoy and get lost in it. What a wonderfully well thought out story. I'm very happy to have found this author and I'm looking forward to future books by her. ...more An excellent read. The detail put into this book is astounding, and Segran is amazing at creating environments that draw you in. I became totally engrossed and felt like I was standing right there in the midst of everything. I just couldn't put it down! I recommend Aegis Rising to anyone who enjoys a good adventure-mystery, and hope we'll see many more equally enthralling stories from this author. Aegis Rising by S.S.Segran is an amazing book but it uses a lot of assumptions and unanswered questions. It starts as a plane ride to a house in the mountains for five friends Kody, Ari, Jag, Regan and Marian. Joey's father was flying when they are hit by lightning. The plane crashed.Giant bears known as the Guardian took the kids to a village in the mountains. They were healed by the villagers.Akol and his sister Huyani have the gift of linguistics and learned English rapidly. They were an anci Aegis Rising by S.S.Segran is an amazing book but it uses a lot of assumptions and unanswered questions. It starts as a plane ride to a house in the mountains for five friends Kody, Ari, Jag, Regan and Marian. Joey's father was flying when they are hit by lightning. The plane crashed.Giant bears known as the Guardian took the kids to a village in the mountains. They were healed by the villagers.Akol and his sister Huyani have the gift of linguistics and learned English rapidly. They were an ancient culture and rarely left the village. Something is poisoning the water. The village elders, Ashack, Nageau, Saiyu, Takata, and Tikina are the elders. They teach, guide and help the people of the village. The valley is called Dina-Ki. The report comes to head when trackers sent out to find the volunteers tracing the tau.Ted water source find 2 survivors. They tell them the mining is causing the water to be poisonous. Four trackers remain behind while the rest of the group return to Dina-Ki. How can these people fight man's modern weapons. What will happen to the villagers and the kids? ...more I'm a lover of all things history related, and that's what first drew me to Aegis Rising. Shortly after beginning, though, I just couldn't put it down! The mix of ancient and modern is riveting, the dialogue and storyline flow smoothly, and I fell in love with the characters. They each bring something unique to the table, and the combination works together perfectly. The fast paced action and excellent writing style will keep you on your toes! It's a wonderful book for all ages. The only bad thi I'm a lover of all things history related, and that's what first drew me to Aegis Rising. Shortly after beginning, though, I just couldn't put it down! The mix of ancient and modern is riveting, the dialogue and storyline flow smoothly, and I fell in love with the characters. They each bring something unique to the table, and the combination works together perfectly. The fast paced action and excellent writing style will keep you on your toes! It's a wonderful book for all ages. The only bad thing I have to say.. is that it was over way too soon. I'm definitely looking forward to the sequel! ...more *Independent reviewer for Paranormal Romance and Authors That Rock* 4.5 fangs! There's definitely a lot of information in this book to build the background. There are many things going on that you can't figure out how they will interact. Keep your hat on and hold on for the ride. Five teens are flying with one of the friend's dad for a vacation. Unfortunately they will not meet their destination. During a storm, the plane is struck by lightning and comes down over a deserted mountain range. Lucki *Independent reviewer for Paranormal Romance and Authors That Rock* 4.5 fangs! There's definitely a lot of information in this book to build the background. There are many things going on that you can't figure out how they will interact. Keep your hat on and hold on for the ride. Five teens are flying with one of the friend's dad for a vacation. Unfortunately they will not meet their destination. During a storm, the plane is struck by lightning and comes down over a deserted mountain range. Luckily for the five, it wasn't so deserted. The area is inhibited by a village that has no interaction with the outside world. They are a hidden civilization that has survived for years with only the knowledge of the original inhabitants and a higher-minded people who came to their land when a volcanic eruption destroyed their home. The traditions and knowledge of these two civilizations have made the villagers surprisingly fully efficient and modern considering they do not have access to the outside world. The villagers take in the teens, care for them and heal them. When they finally recover they just want to go home. Their questions are dodged until the village Elders meet with them. The teens learn that the elders believe the group will fulfill an ancient prophecy. The prophecy talks about the five that will lead the world to the light and out of the darkness that it will find itself in. The teens have no idea where they are or if anyone is even looking for them. Do they trust the villagers that took them in and cared for them or do they hightail it out of there and take their chances? There's also another problem brewing that the Elders have to address. Their people are falling ill and none of their remedies or healing powers are working. They have never been able to not heal whatever they have come down with. This also leads the Elders to wonder if the teens will be involved in this as well. Awesome story. Once the foundation is built, the drama and suspense takes off from there. Page-turning, action-packed, twists and turns that you are not expecting! If you're looking to suspense, this is up your alley!! ...more *Please check out my blog on Saturday for the full review* This novel did contain a few things that I enjoyed. The first quarter of the story was very interesting and I found the descriptions of Demi Ki and general background presented in the prologue to be a very unique setting for a story. However, unfortunately the story quickly began to loose my interest after this. The novel felt as though it was just a little too long, padded out to the point where I just began to lose interest. There are a *Please check out my blog on Saturday for the full review* This novel did contain a few things that I enjoyed. The first quarter of the story was very interesting and I found the descriptions of Demi Ki and general background presented in the prologue to be a very unique setting for a story. However, unfortunately the story quickly began to loose my interest after this. The novel felt as though it was just a little too long, padded out to the point where I just began to lose interest. There are a lot of sections in which characters discuss events that have happened off scene rather than show them. The cast of the story was also huge and so I felt that not enough time was spent fleshing out the characters. Even the five teenage protagonists seemed to lack a little in individuality towards the start of the story, not really developing any unique facets to their personalities until they developed their powers. Finally, I felt that the villains in the story just took too long to appear and lacked motivation for their actions. While I understand that there is going to be a sequel story, I was disappointed that this story did not reveal any of their motivations as this just made them feel 2-Dimensional. Villains are always more intriguing for me if I can understand their actions but unfortunately in this story they just seemed to be evil for evil's sake. All in all, I was disappointed that this story did not continue well from its strong start but am curious to see how the plot will advance in the next book, especially following on from the portentous hints of the final few chapters. ...more Originally published at Novel Escapism \u201cFrom the flames of Cerraco five will arise, Saplings of Aegis, the bearers of light\u2026\u201d so begins the ancient prophecy of a hidden civilization thriving in a small valley in northern Canada. They have been awaiting the five \u201cchosen\u201d ones for hundreds of years. Little did they know the five \u201cSaplings of Aegis\u201d would be five teenage friends who literally fall from the sky in a fireball. Tegan, Kody, Jag, Mariah and Aari survive a plane crash that drops them int Originally published at Novel Escapism \u201cFrom the flames of Cerraco five will arise, Saplings of Aegis, the bearers of light\u2026\u201d so begins the ancient prophecy of a hidden civilization thriving in a small valley in northern Canada. They have been awaiting the five \u201cchosen\u201d ones for hundreds of years. Little did they know the five \u201cSaplings of Aegis\u201d would be five teenage friends who literally fall from the sky in a fireball. Tegan, Kody, Jag, Mariah and Aari survive a plane crash that drops them into their destiny. They must become the five bearers of light against a rising darkness that immediately threatens the hidden valley and poses a danger to the rest of the world. Ms. Segran\u2019s sci-fi adventure is remarkably imaginative. While the action starts off slowly, it becomes increasingly captivating. The five protagonists are likeable and watching them become heroes is satisfying. Ms. Segran\u2019s writing is polished and her imagery vivid. All in all \u201cAegis Rising\u201d is a refreshing story with broad audience appeal. *Disclosure: I was provided a free copy of this novel with a request for an honest review.* ...more I love action-adventure but I am rather picky about my reads. When I came across Aegis Rising, it got my attention. As I read the synopsis I learnt that it seemed to push the boundary of the genre with elements of history, sci-fi and mystery thrown into it. So thought I'd give it a go and I am super glad I did! This book is about five teenagers and their story after their plane crashes somewhere in northern Canada. Being youthful myself, I found drawn in to the teens and their adventure. This is I love action-adventure but I am rather picky about my reads. When I came across Aegis Rising, it got my attention. As I read the synopsis I learnt that it seemed to push the boundary of the genre with elements of history, sci-fi and mystery thrown into it. So thought I'd give it a go and I am super glad I did! This book is about five teenagers and their story after their plane crashes somewhere in northern Canada. Being youthful myself, I found drawn in to the teens and their adventure. This is also largely due to the writing prowess of the author who seems to have this amazing ability to create characters, environments and a plot that's captivating. The book is of high quality and the storyline keeps you hooked. I loved how each character had a distinct personality whom the reader connects with and grows attached to as the story progresses. The action scenes are heart-pounding and very well crafted. The sense of intrigue and wonder permeates the pages. For all that and more, I give Aegis Rising a well-deserved 5 Star. ...more This is a fantasy book that I was waiting for. Full of enjoyable adventure and a meaningful conflict between good and evil, this is a book that is refreshing and fun to read. I loved its characters, and the way they solve their problems and obstacles. Very well written book. Highly recommended. Amazing Book Truly captivating. Story kept me hooked throughout the novel. The way the author unfolded the story allowed the suspense to keep building til I could no longer put down the book. We are proud to announce that AEGIS RISING by S.S. Segran is a B.R.A.G.Medallion Honoree. This tells a reader that this book is well worth their time and money! S.S. Segran's latest highly entertaining story will appeal to fans of fantasy novels everywhere! This book truly shows the power of language and storytelling. Aegis Rising is the first book in The Aegis League series by S.S. Segran. It starts to tell the story of five teenagers who crash land in Dema-Ki, the hidden valley where there are a group of natives. Unbeknownst to the teenagers, their arrival fulfills a prophecy that was foretold many years beforehand. The natives aid them in finding inner supernatural powers and, together, they try to help save their area from the poison that a corporation is spewing into a local river. I was really intrigued Aegis Rising is the first book in The Aegis League series by S.S. Segran. It starts to tell the story of five teenagers who crash land in Dema-Ki, the hidden valley where there are a group of natives. Unbeknownst to the teenagers, their arrival fulfills a prophecy that was foretold many years beforehand. The natives aid them in finding inner supernatural powers and, together, they try to help save their area from the poison that a corporation is spewing into a local river. I was really intrigued by this book at first. The prologue was fascinating to me and really drew me in. I really enjoyed the story of Mokun and the perils he, and his comrades, endured in the natural disaster. However, it was to my disappointed that the story was not continued in the rest of the book. The plot was definitely clich\u00e9 and essentially the stereotypical \"main characters save the place from the evil corporation\" story, with the added \"we've found out we have super powers and it has only taken us a few weeks to harness them\" bit. I think these reasons are why I didn't particularly enjoy the overall story very much. I've read and watched a lot of books or programs/ movies with very similar things. I don't mind having clich\u00e9 plots, sometimes, but the author does nothing to make it at all unique. In the book, there are just far too many characters. We have five of the crash survivors (and the father of one of them), their two guides, five elders, and it just keeps on going... At the end of the book, I counted the list and there are thirty-eight human characters, plus Samuel Tyler who was not included on it and there are also several animal characters as well. There are just far too many. Having so many of them just over-complicates matters. I think that the most annoying thing about having so many is that I don't really care much for any of them. There's no-one in the main book which stands out to me and there is no-one that I would consider to be even slightly unique. Every single character in the main story is generic. The author has essentially two types of characters; the \"good\" characters and the \"bad/ evil\" characters. Essentially, the author has made all the \"good\" characters to be kind, generous, modest and with interests that the author feels we might empathise with. All of the \"bad/ evil\" characters are just your stereotypical bad people, those who try and ruin what the \"good\" characters are doing and often try to harm them. These \"bad/ evil\" characters are also jealous and generally hateful people; it feels like the entire world is against them, when really they're just over-exaggerating. With the five crash survivors, there is no unique thought or trait amongst them. It's pretty much just the one character, but copied a few times over. Of course they look different, but there personalities are what bother me. The author uses the fact that they've known each other so long to be a reasonable explanation as to why they're all the same. However, I just think it's lack of interest (on their part) to have such similar characters. Even the villagers all seem to be the same. I just found no interesting characters in the main story. The only character I enjoyed was Mokun, though unfortunately we didn't get to read more about that. One of the bigger problems I had with this book is how the author tries to simplify things when doing so makes it just look somewhat silly. For example, the fact that so many villagers and omni-linguistic because of their natural powers. It's more than silly; it just makes it completely unbelievable that these people are able to completely know a language before you even know the words. I would be able to accept this ability if they only learned the language once they learned the words. However, the fact that every single person with this ability knew English automatically was absurd. Another thing that bothers me is the way everything comes so easily for the five. I see that the majority of the book tries to be fairly happy and thus the author chooses not to have much go wrong for the five in their recovery (from the crash) or their training. However, it just makes it seem so one-sided and the book is set up for their success, which makes it anti-climactic because we already know how it's going to turn out. The training coming so easily is unfortunate because, though one might argue that it's their natural powers, they don't have to work very hard to master their powers. Other ways that the author makes it easier and a little too convenient for the plot: going back to the omni-linguistic people, their living circumstances aren't much different then they would experience at home (hot water piped to their quarters, cooking areas similar, etc) and the five being so welcome in the village (only the \"bad\" characters reject them, but otherwise no-one really has a problem with them being there). I reckon that the supernatural portions of the book were unnecessary. Ultimately, the five and other villagers would have been fine without them, even accomplishing their goal of saving themselves from the corporation. I didn't find any of the powers to be interesting as they're generic for this type of plot. Plus, they add to the convenience of plot that they always have some sort of power that saves their lives at each point. An example is when their drinks are poisoned and Kody is able to smell it to save them. Overall, the book has an unoriginal plot with clich\u00e9 scenes and lackluster characters. I will say this though: I think that the author has an interesting writing style and a good way with words. It's quite a pity that they couldn't write any original characters or develop a unique plot to go with it. I'm pretty disappointed because when I first started reading it, I really liked the prologue and thought it was brilliant. It's a pity that it went all downhill from there. My first idea for rating is two stars, but I think that the author's writing brings it back up to three. I \"bought\" a copy of this from Amazon.com.au when it was free. These are just my honest thoughts. ...more I won this book thru a contest here from the author and it was an okay read. I liked the story , I really did. It was interesting, the idea of a people living undiscovered and having unique skills from ages past and having outsiders appear to fulfill a role. But for some reason I was not drawn into it. Hence why it took me over a week to read it; when I had time to read, I would choose to do something else. Even though I was mostly enjoying it, it did not have me excited enough to make me want to I won this book thru a contest here from the author and it was an okay read. I liked the story , I really did. It was interesting, the idea of a people living undiscovered and having unique skills from ages past and having outsiders appear to fulfill a role. But for some reason I was not drawn into it. Hence why it took me over a week to read it; when I had time to read, I would choose to do something else. Even though I was mostly enjoying it, it did not have me excited enough to make me want to find out what happened next. Well, until the end at least. While on a vacation five teenage friends end up crash landing somewhere in Canada. Pretty much in the middle of nowhere. Rescued by five huge bears known as guardians, they are brought to the village of Dema-ki. There they are taken in by the five elders and cared for by two of the elders' grandchildren. I totally loved Akol. He was by far my favorite character and I so want to see more of him in the future. The elders believe them to be the five spoken of in one of their prophecies and so for a while they are kept \"secret\" from the rest of the village. At the same time some of their people are falling ill and dying so during a meeting to discuss this, the five are also introduced to the people. Their training also begins for each of them to harness and hone innate skills that they have. But hiding behind the peaceful village appearance there is a group that objects to things. They attempt to deal with what they consider a threat or outdated ways, but thankfully they fail. The repercussions had they succeeded would have been a tremendous blow to the whole village. Eventually it is discovered what has been poisoning their land and they go to counter it. This battle was crazy, bloody and deadly. It was quite different from the pace of the rest of the book, but also the most engaging. We end with the five teenagers still staying there to continue their training and learn more about what kind of hand this village has played even in the outside world. I had one problem with this story. These five kids were just too damn perfect. They were all super polite, all smart, all modest, all into some sort of crazy physical activity, and always super concerned about the others. Now if this was two people, maybe even three, then I could possibly buy it. But I find it hard to believe that a group of five teenagers would be anything like this. Especially these days. But I suppose being fiction I should just roll my eyes (which I did) and keep on reading... I would definitely give the next book a read if I come across it for free. Like a contest, ARC or whatever. But until I know that it sucks me in and holds on, I just can't see me buying it. ...more Aegis Rising gets off to a good start with an engaging and interesting prologue, unfortunately the subsequent chapters don't measure up. The story drags a little in the beginning and the characters seem flat and uninteresting. Try as I might, I never could connect to any of them. I was halfway through the book and wishing for the end when things finally started to pick up a little. One of the villains (whom I won't name so as to avoid a spoiler) was at least an interesting character although a ho Aegis Rising gets off to a good start with an engaging and interesting prologue, unfortunately the subsequent chapters don't measure up. The story drags a little in the beginning and the characters seem flat and uninteresting. Try as I might, I never could connect to any of them. I was halfway through the book and wishing for the end when things finally started to pick up a little. One of the villains (whom I won't name so as to avoid a spoiler) was at least an interesting character although a horrid person. His plotting helped to liven the story up some. I enjoyed the story much more when told from the point of view of the various villains, as they were more engaging and less dull than the heroes. The highlight of this book are the fight scenes, which are nicely detailed and flow very well. The villagers of Demi Ki are endowed with certain abilities which make them faster, more agile, and more able to complete incredible feats than most people. When the five outsiders began their training, I was looking forward to seeing how their physical and mental abilities progressed. Sadly, very little time was spent on actually showing the training. Mostly the information was conveyed through the teenagers and the elders talking about it afterward. The best part of the entire book was the climatic battle scene which seemed to strive to make up for the dullness of most of the rest of the story by being awesome. This battle tempted me to push this to a three star rating, but after considering the book as a whole I couldn't do it. Though this story did have some good elements, and there may be plenty of people who will enjoy it more than I did, I have no interest in picking up the sequel. ...more<---C>S.S. Segran</---C>", "Title": "Aegis Rising"},
