{"Comments": "This book is a wonder. It's interesting that it can be so effective when its artifice is so apparent.<---F> No one really writes like this</---F>. No one really uses this bizarre amalgam of heightened vocabulary, slang, and understatement; just to read a few pages is proof enough of that. The technique is mostly a kind of enjambed, run-on sentence style with colorful Australian argot. Yet one is completely mesmerized by the book. It's pleasures as a narrative are rich and unrelenting. My heart pounds and a s This book is a wonder. It's interesting that it can be so effective when its artifice is so apparent. No one really writes like this. No one really uses this bizarre amalgam of heightened vocabulary, slang, and understatement; just to read a few pages is proof enough of that. The technique is mostly a kind of enjambed, run-on sentence style with colorful Australian argot. Yet one is completely mesmerized by the book. It's pleasures as a narrative are rich and unrelenting. My heart pounds and a sympathetic vengeance fills me as I read Ned Kelly's account of the injustices done to him and his family by an out of control police force. As if the dreary damp wretched pitiful lives of these people weren't enough. On top of it all they are persecuted as Irish Catholics by a colonial British establishment. One comes to the book with this expectation that it is about this out of control killer and his adherents. But halfway through it dawns on you that Ned Kelly as depicted here is a moral hero. It is only when he is pushed into a corner that he kills, and then his acts are in self defense. Ned's claims of being sought by the police solely for purposes of summary execution without trial are incontrovertible. Please look to the many other reviews here for a run-down of the plot points. Highly recommended. ...more lmao i definitely didn't read the last 100 pages of this Well here I am being a bad person again, I try to be good and I really do like to like things but you all are probably by now getting the strong idea that really I like to dislike things, such as Booker Prize winners and movies with Scarlet Johanssssssen in them. They call me Mr Grumpy, baby,<---M> cause baby</---M>, that\u2019s my name. No, Otis Redding did not sing that song, I did. Well I did not make it even to the middle of this Kelly Gang saga and the reasons are disturbing \u2013 for me, that is, not for you. Pe Well here I am being a bad person again, I try to be good and I really do like to like things but you all are probably by now getting the strong idea that really I like to dislike things, such as Booker Prize winners and movies with Scarlet Johanssssssen in them. They call me Mr Grumpy, baby, cause baby, that\u2019s my name. No, Otis Redding did not sing that song, I did. Well I did not make it even to the middle of this Kelly Gang saga and the reasons are disturbing \u2013 for me, that is, not for you. Peter Cary can write well, he\u2019s lyrical, and salty, and all that- mmmm, smell that kangaroo, taste that kookaburra. Ned Kelly, whose unlikely autobiography this is, is sweet and pungent and na\u00efve and knowing and really beautiful, everybody says so and everybody is right. You can\u2019t get past <---A>Peter Carey</---A>\u2019s front door without shoving aside all the awards which have spilled off his shelves, lots of them for this very novel. But when I put this novel down to read a nonfiction zinger about obscure 78 records, and then another nonfiction zinger about the publication history of Ulysses, and then, today, I thought I\u2019d better pick Ned Kelly up again & finish it, I found a new thought lying around in my brain, and the thought was \u2013 nah, let\u2019s not. It wasn\u2019t the fact that this man Ned has perfect recall of every single solitary moment of his life, because that kind of annoying unlikeliness is something I guess you have to go along with because every long first person narrative has a bit of that about it, although it does grate here; it was more the whole illiteratish working class no-good-Irish bushranger-type turns out to be sensitive yet strong courageous yet nice, tough yet tasty, mean yet poetic.... my God the human admirableness of Ned was laid on with a trowel, I could not tell if Ned was totally in love with himself or if Peter Carey was totally in love with Ned his creature. But fatally for me, this whole cool-Ned thing became cute. He was cute. He was romantic. He was like the guy in the Shangri-Las song \u2013 \u201cOh yeah? Well I hear he\u2019s bad\u201d \u201cMmmm- he\u2019s good-bad, but he\u2019s not evil\u201d. So this was shaping up to be a claustrophobically told cowboy yarn (think The Outlaw Josey Wales or High Plains Drifter with a dash of Unforgiven ) and with another 237 pages to go I got off of my roan mare with the splash of silver over its left eye and stuffed a jumbuck in my tucker bag and scrambled over the billabong back to the 21st century. ...more Description: In <+++>True History of the Kelly Gang</+++>,\" \" the legendary Ned Kelly speaks for himself, scribbling his narrative on errant scraps of paper in semiliterate but magically descriptive prose as he flees from the police. To his pursuers, Kelly is nothing but a monstrous criminal, a thief and a murderer. To his own people, the lowly class of ordinary Australians, the bushranger is a hero, defying the authority of the English to direct their lives. Indentured by his bootlegger mother to a famous Description: In <+++>True History of the Kelly Gang</+++>,\" \" the legendary Ned Kelly speaks for himself, scribbling his narrative on errant scraps of paper in semiliterate but magically descriptive prose as he flees from the police. To his pursuers, Kelly is nothing but a monstrous criminal, a thief and a murderer. To his own people, the lowly class of ordinary Australians, the bushranger is a hero, defying the authority of the English to direct their lives. Indentured by his bootlegger mother to a famous horse thief (who was also her lover), Ned saw his first prison cell at 15 and by the age of 26 had become the most wanted man in the wild colony of Victoria, taking over whole towns and defying the law until he was finally captured and hanged. Here is a classic outlaw tale, made alive by the skill of a great novelist.\" Opening: LOST MY OWN FATHER AT 12 yr. of age and know what it is to be raised on lies and silences my dear daughter you are presently too young to understand a word I write but this history is for you and will contain no single lie may I burn in Hell if I speak false. God willing I shall live to see you read these words to witness your astonishment and see your dark eyes widen and your jaw drop when you finally comprehend the injustice we poor Irish suffered in this present age. How queer and foreign it must seem to you and all the coarse words and cruelty which I now relate are far away in ancient time. I seem to like the idea of Peter Carey rather than results, and have some flisters that I'm in awe of who really rate Carey's work. Mick Jagger - Ned Kelly Fragments Johnny Cash - Ned Kelly 2* True History of the Kelly Gang 3* Parrot and Olivier in America 2* Jack Maggs 3* Bliss 2* The Chemistry of Tears TR 30 Days in Sydney 2* The Big Bahzoohley ...more If, like me, you don't know anything about Ned Kelly when you start this book, don't be scared off by the first two pages with the killer robot. That will all become clear later. Really, between the cover design, the killer robot, and the difficult style, I thought I was going to hate this book. Halfway through it, I realized I was totally in love with it. It was this paragraph that really did it for me: We thought you doomed and rooned the minute you walked out past the chook house and Wild deli If, like me, you don't know anything about Ned Kelly when you start this book, don't be scared off by the first two pages with the killer robot. That will all become clear later. Really, between the cover design, the killer robot, and the difficult style, I thought I was going to hate this book. Halfway through it, I realized I was totally in love with it. It was this paragraph that really did it for me: We thought you doomed and rooned the minute you walked out past the chook house and Wild delivered that great sidearm to your head and you was on the floor before you even stepped up to the scratch. It were a proddy pub so no one give an eff what happened to a mick they planned to drink your blood. Wild had heard you had been mocking Dummy and now he were for the kill. (178) Awesome. ...more This novel won Peter Carey the Booker Prize in 2001, snubbing Atonement , number9dream , Oxygen and Hotel World . He remains one of only three Australian authors to have won the award (the other two being Thomas Keneally and D.B.C. Pierre ) and the only Australian author to win the Booker twice - first time in 1988 for his historical novel Oscar and Lucinda . He shares the honor with J.M. Coetzee , J.G. Farrell and Hilary Mantel . I had little knowledge about Ned Kelly before reading this novel, except fo This novel won Peter Carey the Booker Prize in 2001, snubbing Atonement , number9dream , Oxygen and Hotel World . He remains one of only three Australian authors to have won the award (the other two being Thomas Keneally and D.B.C. Pierre ) and the only Australian author to win the Booker twice - first time in 1988 for his historical novel Oscar and Lucinda . He shares the honor with J.M. Coetzee , J.G. Farrell and Hilary Mantel . I had little knowledge about Ned Kelly before reading this novel, except for that he was a famous Australian outlaw - Jesse James of the Oz. However, Peter Carey's renowned status as a novelist both in and outside Australia and the Booker made me interested in his work, and this one in particular: I was eager to read a novel set in colonial Australia, with all its turbulence, depravity, injustice and strangeness. This novel delivers: it is set in the colony of Victoria, starting from a small rural settlement of Avenel and culminating in Glenrowan, with lots of wilderness inbetween. Map of Australia in 1851, three years before Kelly's birth. Map of the colony of Victoria. The novel is presented as a series of manuscripts, all claimed to be written by Kelly, and later archived with proper date included - type of paper and its condition, number of pages, and a summary of each section (is it a nod to Victorian novelists, or a nose flick?). There is also a preface and conclusion, also not written by Kelly, which make the reader question the authenticity of these documents - and the reliability of the narrator and his purpoted chronicler, known only by the initials S. C. This gives the new meaning to the Faulkner quote at the beginning - \"The past is not dead - it is not even past\". How can the past be truly dead, if people will always be digging for skeletons and sometimes looking for means to revive it, creating a state of perpetual present? \u201cI lost my own father at 12 yr. of age and know what it is to be raised on lies and silences my dear daughter you are presently too young to understand a word I write but this history is for you and will contain no single lie may I burn in Hell if I speak false.\u201d This is the opening sentence of Kelly's narrative, and it marks the style in which his account will be written: the complete lack of punctuation resembling William Faulkner and Cormac McCarthy , making the writing flow like speech or thought from the author's head, straight the paper. The memory of the policeman\u2019s words lay inside me like the egg of a liver fluke and while I went about my growing up this slander wormed deeper and deeper into my heart and there grew fat. The \"true history\" is of course as true as Ned Kelly chooses to present it - or as we are led to believe he does. Therefore, the possible accuracy of these papers is limited to only a fraction of truth, seen from Kelly's point of view - and of the mysterious S.C. who compiled his papers and wrote the introduction and conclusion. The text is raw both in style and theme, ranging from Kelly and his family being abused for being Irish by the British settlers, his use of the Australian bush as a hiding place to the final and grotesque shooting. We will not see the history as witnessed by Kelly's mother and father, his brothers and sisters. Therefore, the judgement of Kelly's character is a difficult one to make - boundaries between heroes and villains are often thin, and if all we have is a single account - possibly tampered with - what conclusions can we draw? I believe that Peter Carey did his best to capture Kelly's voice and intentions in his writing. The text is raw and unpolished, but this only strenghtens the impression that we are reading an authentic document, not something written as fiction. I was sold from the moment I read this paragraph, which is the end of the first section and Kelly's despair after the death of his father, his struggling to cope with a great loss at such a young age. I were 12 yr. and 3 wk. old that day and if my feet were callused one inch thick and my hands hard and my labourer\u2019s knees cut and scabbed and stained with dirt no soap could reach yet did I not still have a heart and were this not he who give me life now all dead and ruined? Father son of my heart are you dead from me are you dead from me my father? To sum up: A good novel which deservedly won the Booker, exploring the period of history which is not often mentioned and discussed, written by a talented stylist. ...more I fell in love with the voice of Ned Kelly. I can't make judgement on Ned Kelly, but I loved the character as told over to us by Peter Carey. I was simply quite taken. When I first started the book I felt that a little punctuation wouldn't be amiss but as the story continued I started to think in that voice, to hear it in my head and roll the sounds of it around in my mouth. This is the line where I realized that I loved this book, \"He were as lazy as the dog that rests its head against the wall I fell in love with the voice of Ned Kelly. I can't make judgement on Ned Kelly, but I loved the character as told over to us by Peter Carey. I was simply quite taken. When I first started the book I felt that a little punctuation wouldn't be amiss but as the story continued I started to think in that voice, to hear it in my head and roll the sounds of it around in my mouth. This is the line where I realized that I loved this book, \"He were as lazy as the dog that rests its head against the wall to bark but I didn't grudge him so at different times I fed him Murray cod or yabbies or a snake.\" Another quote I loved, \"They arrived in broken cart & drays they was of that type THE BENALLA ENSIGN named the most frightful class of people they couldn't afford to leave their cows & pigs but they done so because we was them and they was us and we had showed the world what convict blood could do. We proved there were no taint we was of true bone blood and beauty born.\" ...more This fascinating novel from Man Booker prize winner Peter Carey explores the story of the deadly Kelly Gang from the perspective of one of the Kellys. The Kelly gang has an interesting role in Australian history as a band of renegades that were treated like shit by society and forced (or not depending on how you view it) to take to a life of brigandry to survive. They were brutally hunted down by the Aussie government but the hunt took years and cost many lives. The book is exciting and very wel This fascinating novel from Man Booker prize winner Peter Carey explores the story of the deadly Kelly Gang from the perspective of one of the Kellys. The Kelly gang has an interesting role in Australian history as a band of renegades that were treated like shit by society and forced (or not depending on how you view it) to take to a life of brigandry to survive. They were brutally hunted down by the Aussie government but the hunt took years and cost many lives. The book is exciting and very well-written (as well written as Oscar and Lucinda which I adored as well!) Highly recommended as a portrait of early 20th C badlands in Australia. ...more Written in the words of the infamous bushranger and outlaw Ned Kelly \u2013 Australia\u2019s Jesse James/ Robin Hood \u2013 the True History of the Kelly Gang is a novel which accounts Kelly\u2019s life from impoverished childhood to inevitable capture and execution. Kelly\u2019s story centers on the unfairness and corruption of the nineteenth century Australian legal system, and the discriminations against the poor and the Irish (of which Kelly was both). Through it all, Ned Kelly\u2019s motivations are for justice, family Written in the words of the infamous bushranger and outlaw Ned Kelly \u2013 Australia\u2019s Jesse James/ Robin Hood \u2013 the True History of the Kelly Gang is a novel which accounts Kelly\u2019s life from impoverished childhood to inevitable capture and execution. Kelly\u2019s story centers on the unfairness and corruption of the nineteenth century Australian legal system, and the discriminations against the poor and the Irish (of which Kelly was both). Through it all, Ned Kelly\u2019s motivations are for justice, family, and a place of his own. According to his history, he is denied these. I didn\u2019t expect to like this book as much as I did, and this is attributed to Peter Carey\u2019s vivid prose, and thorough and continuous attention to detail. Don\u2019t be daunted by Ned Kelly \u2019s \u2018poor\u2019 grammar; it only enhances the authenticity. ...more This is an 'adjectival' original piece of historical fiction. Carey did a fine job recreating Ned Kelly's voice. A piece of 19th century Australian history come to life through the masterly invented voice of Australia's most famous bushranger. In an interview with the Guardian newspaper in 2001, Peter Carey stated that the idea for writing a history of Ned Kelly started when he read the so-called Jerilderie Letter in a museum in the 1960s. This 8,000 word, 56-page letter was dictated to fellow gang member Joe Byrne by Ned following the robbery of the Jerilderie bank in 1879. In it Ned explains why he has been driven to lead a life as a bushranger following persecution of his family by a corrupt police force and victimisation of poor In an interview with the Guardian newspaper in 2001, Peter Carey stated that the idea for writing a history of Ned Kelly started when he read the so-called Jerilderie Letter in a museum in the 1960s. This 8,000 word, 56-page letter was dictated to fellow gang member Joe Byrne by Ned following the robbery of the Jerilderie bank in 1879. In it Ned explains why he has been driven to lead a life as a bushranger following persecution of his family by a corrupt police force and victimisation of poor Irish families by the wealthy English squatters.In the letter, Ned gives his version of events and gives his account of the killing of three police officers at Stringybark Creek in 1978 saying \"... this cannot be called wilful murder for I was compelled to shoot them, or lie down and let them shoot me\" . Carey describes the letter as uneducated but intelligent, humorous but also angry and says that \"His language came in a great, furious rush that could not but remind you of far more literary Irish writers.\" In this novel, Carey has recreated Ned's voice as he heard it in the letter and used it to tell the story of the Kelly Gang. The novel is written in the first person using a stream of rich, almost poetic Irish-Australian vernacular from the 1880s. The cast of characters including his mother Ellen, brother Dan and sister Kate, his best friend Joe Byrne,opium-eater Aaron,and the cross-dressing Steve Hart are all colorfully described so that we have a sympathy and understanding of their natures. Wonderfully re-imagined, the novel is as much a comment on the politics of the time and the struggle between the families of poor convicts eking out a living and the wealthier settlers as it is the story of a bushranger. ...more The book aint no adjectival ordinary good read it were an Australian bush tale about ole Ned Kelly a real life legendary criminal and hero and how he were forced to become a bushranger by the effing corrupt police and judges and them fellers what owned everything and bent the law to their favor. Ole Ned wrote his story in letter form to his unborn daughter being carried in the belly of his beloved whore Mary Hearn he seen his family treated poorly and himself put in gaol for no good reason. It\u2019s The book aint no adjectival ordinary good read it were an Australian bush tale about ole Ned Kelly a real life legendary criminal and hero and how he were forced to become a bushranger by the effing corrupt police and judges and them fellers what owned everything and bent the law to their favor. Ole Ned wrote his story in letter form to his unborn daughter being carried in the belly of his beloved whore Mary Hearn he seen his family treated poorly and himself put in gaol for no good reason. It\u2019s a rip snortin tale what moves at a mighty pace mabe too fast and too many characters and too much geographical disorientation. Ned and his pansy brother Dan and Dan\u2019s pansy friend Hal and opium addict Joe Byrne find thereselves commiten murder and bank robbin and hostage takin cause it forced on them by the ruling classes. It all a big cowboy adventure but if you are one to be turned off by over 300 pages of this sort of no comma bad grammar poor spellin narrative it better to get a real true history of real life Ned Kelly. ...more Talk about total immersion! Reading this was like being dunked and held under in the inhospitable waters of hardtack bush life in the 19th century, and no, Carey is not letting you up for air! The language and style -a torrential outpouring of unpunctuated vernacular- does take some getting used to, and can be potentially confusing at first (and even later)but I think it's part of what gives this novel such a strong faculty for transporting the reader to another time and place. (I were there with Talk about total immersion! Reading this was like being dunked and held under in the inhospitable waters of hardtack bush life in the 19th century, and no, Carey is not letting you up for air! The language and style -a torrential outpouring of unpunctuated vernacular- does take some getting used to, and can be potentially confusing at first (and even later)but I think it's part of what gives this novel such a strong faculty for transporting the reader to another time and place. (I were there with the b----rs in the adjectival hut! It'll take a while for it to fade...) Feisty adventures aside, there are other, more complex themes flowing through this novel, notably a running commentary on the veritable caste system between the English and Irish settlers; forced destinies and almost obligatory criminality (OK, they'll hang you for stealing a saddle, you might as well steal some horses!)and the ambiguous and binding ties betweeen a mother and son. And some magical transvestism and rat charming but that's just icing on the cake... There's no doubt as to Carey's talent; he's one of those authors who can change his style and voice to adapt to any literary project. I first read Carey's Illywhacker , which I loved, back in the 80's; then on to The Unusual Life Of Tristan Smith , (an interesting but unsatisfying \"weirdosity\") as well as the fun but flawed Jack Maggs . The True History... , for me, comes in at 2d place out of 4. So far! ...more This is written as an memoir (difference between an autobiography & a memoir; memoirs don't have indexes) Ned Kelly is setting down for an infant daughter he will never see. Kind of poignant actually. Carey wrote this in a nineteenth century Australian vernacular. Kind of like Trainspotting. Not for everyone. Normally I'd find it annoying and pretentious, but Carey makes it work. That alone probably merits his Booker. The story by itself is amazing. Even in his own words Kelly clearly is no This is written as an memoir (difference between an autobiography & a memoir; memoirs don't have indexes) Ned Kelly is setting down for an infant daughter he will never see. Kind of poignant actually. Carey wrote this in a nineteenth century Australian vernacular. Kind of like Trainspotting. Not for everyone. Normally I'd find it annoying and pretentious, but Carey makes it work. That alone probably merits his Booker. The story by itself is amazing. Even in his own words Kelly clearly is no hero. Just a guy who wants the rich off his back and the government to step off his neck. It's good stuff. ...more Peter Carey is an adjectival genius. You coves, when you tell your history to your daughters, tell it true as Ned Kelly did. History has some rough spots. Mates and traitors. For me, the best parts of True History of the Kelly Gang , in no particular order, were: the complex relationship of Kelly and his Ma; the blossoming character of Mary Hearn; and the story of how Whitty got his land with the help of the Devil. There is, it turns out, only one wish the Devil can not grant. Here is the story of Ned Kelly, as told in his own words. Or at least that is the novel's conceit. In True History of the Kelly Gang Peter Carey channels Australia's most famous outlaw, relating his tale in powerfully rich, though semi-literate prose. Anyone who's familiar with Ned Kelly's legend (don't worry, you don't need to know anything about Ned Kelly to enjoy the novel) will expect this book to be largely about the so-called Kelly Outbreak, but that is not the case. In fact we don't reach Here is the story of Ned Kelly, as told in his own words. Or at least that is the novel's conceit. In True History of the Kelly Gang Peter Carey channels Australia's most famous outlaw, relating his tale in powerfully rich, though semi-literate prose. Anyone who's familiar with Ned Kelly's legend (don't worry, you don't need to know anything about Ned Kelly to enjoy the novel) will expect this book to be largely about the so-called Kelly Outbreak, but that is not the case. In fact we don't reach the Kelly Outbreak until about 2/3 of the way through the novel. Instead we are treated mostly to Kelly's early years, his family's struggles to eke out an existence, and all the injustices which would make Kelly the man he later became. Toward the end of the book a character asks if Australians have no one better to look up to than a horse thief. Accurate account or not this novel vividly describes why we tend to romanticize murderers and thieves like Ned Kelly or Billy the Kid; why even in their own time outlaws like these were seen by many of the common people as heroes rather than villains. Whatever their motivations for doing so they stood up against the agents of injustice; the police and magistrates who applied the law however they saw fit, the rich landowners and bankers who took whatever they wanted without fear of reprisal. All Ned Kelly ever wanted was for his voice to be heard, but no one was willing to listen. I've seen some complaints about the prose in this book, and that baffles me a bit. As I said early this novel is written in Kelly's own voice, complete with all the run on sentences and errors in grammar you might expect from an uneducated man in the late 19th century. While I admit that the prose takes some getting used to (after 5 or 6 pages you should have little problem with it), it's really the prose which elevates this novel to something more than just another retelling of the Kelly legend. ...more Once I acclimated to the sentence structure, the poor grammar, the lack of punctuation, I rather enjoyed the book. The author did research the subject, so that's a plus, you never know what you might get with historical fiction nowadays. I remember several years back watching the movie with Heath Ledger. Pretty similar book more detailed of course. If a fan of Australia, outlaws, Rebels I'd suggest this book I like anything Carey. Nothing is going to beat Oscar and Lucinda in my heart, but this one is not bad either. The style is so adjectivally good! Poignant and entertaining, it\u2019s a story of a bushman and an Australian folk hero, Ned Kelly, told in his own voice in a form of a long lost memoir. Carey apparently came up with Kelly\u2019s unique voice after coming across a real letter Kelly wrote to the authorities explaining why he was innocent of the crimes ascribed to him. It had its own singular gramm I like anything Carey. Nothing is going to beat Oscar and Lucinda in my heart, but this one is not bad either. The style is so adjectivally good! Poignant and entertaining, it\u2019s a story of a bushman and an Australian folk hero, Ned Kelly, told in his own voice in a form of a long lost memoir. Carey apparently came up with Kelly\u2019s unique voice after coming across a real letter Kelly wrote to the authorities explaining why he was innocent of the crimes ascribed to him. It had its own singular grammar and no punctuation, very much like the style of the book. Carey makes Kelly a victim of circumstances, corrupt policemen, vindictive administrators, bad laws and prejudice against the Irish. I guess it's up to us to decide how reliable the narrator is, even though there is a lot apparently pointing in that direction. The book makes for great reading, even though it takes some time to get used to. It sags a bit in the middle, but is quite brilliant overall. ...more Ned Kelly was executed in Melbourne jail on 11 November 1880. His last words are supposed to have been \u2018Ah well, I suppose it has come to this.\u2019 Carey\u2019s novel reclaims Kelly from myth to reconstruct him as a man by telling the story of his brief life in the outlaw\u2019s own voice. Thanks to Carey's extraordinary skill, the emotional power of this individual's story is made real, which made the book even more enjoyable. I suppose since this book had won the Booker I was primed for one of the best books I've ever read. And it was good. But not one of the best books I've ever read. Just above average. I actually liked Carey's, My Life as a Fake, better. And, Wrong about Japan, just as much. Ever since my high school boyfriend outed me to my youthful music idol as a slavering fangirl, I resolved to be moderate in my attitudes towards artists whose work I admire. Not that I want to downplay my enjoyment of their art, or affect a \"too cool for enthusiasm\" attitude. But I realized that day at the indie-rock festival how wrong it was that I was uncomfortable speaking face-to-face with this personable, modest woman, all because I had elevated her onto an unreasonable pedestal. I was unab Ever since my high school boyfriend outed me to my youthful music idol as a slavering fangirl, I resolved to be moderate in my attitudes towards artists whose work I admire. Not that I want to downplay my enjoyment of their art, or affect a \"too cool for enthusiasm\" attitude. But I realized that day at the indie-rock festival how wrong it was that I was uncomfortable speaking face-to-face with this personable, modest woman, all because I had elevated her onto an unreasonable pedestal. I was unable to relate to her as a person, because my veneration of her got in the way, and I was unable to take myself seriously as a fellow musician, because of my veneration for her art. And that, it seemed to me, was a situation worth avoiding in the future. All of which is to say: my long-time resolution is being put to a severe test by the novels of Peter Carey. On the plane back from New Hampshire in October, I was practically hyperventilating over the final pages of Carey's Oscar and Lucinda , having to stop after every chapter and decompress for ten minutes before moving on. On the way back from (appropriately enough) Australia, I devoured the entirety of his My Life as a Fake . And now, having just burned through True History of the Kelly Gang , I have to admit to a certain amount of giddy adulation. Carey's consistent ability to create a strong, vital narrative voice; the sheer creative exuberance of his language; the crippling pathos of his storylines and the way his characters grip your heart and won't let go: reading his work is artistically, mentally and emotionally an utter joy. One of my favorite qualities in a novel is a narrative voice so distinctive that I carry it around with me in my head while going about my business, and Ned Kelly's is a beautiful example. The language and character development here are intimately linked, in a way much more sophisticated than the over-used equation of \"writing in dialect\" with \"uneducated\" and/or \"stupid.\" Kelly's unorthodox grammar and punctuation do point, of course, to his lack of formal education, but his style as a whole does so much more, immersing the reader in a wild, hybrid, semi-Biblical landscape that flexes and reels through the narrative, at times becoming so taut that it approaches poetry, yet never seeming unnatural. From his first sentence, Carey had me: I lost my own father at 12 yr. of age and know what it is to be raised on lies and silences my dear daughter you are presently too young to understand a word I write but this history is for you and will contain no single lie may I burn in Hell if I speak false. Even in these scant lines, so much of Kelly is present: his anger and his tenderness, his self-justification and his inescapable ties to past and family. And, of course, his religion, for being poor Irish Catholic \"currency\" (the nominally free offspring of convicts forcibly settled on Australian soil) is at the heart of Kelly's identity and his actions. One of the many things I love about Carey's novels is how thought-provoking and ambiguous their morality tends to be. From a self-sacrificing love expressed by a gambling addict as a suicidal bet, to a mysterious manuscript whose ownership is so murky that an obsessed collector is left wandering in a morass of half-truth, his characters operate within moral frameworks that are engaged with tradition, yet strikingly unique. Kelly Gang is somewhat less unexpected in its morality than either Oscar & Lucinda or My Life as a Fake - after all, the rise and inevitable fall of the folk-hero outlaw has a well-established canon behind it, from Robin Hood to Jesse James to Don Vito Corleone - but Carey creates a typically nuanced version of the stock character. Rather than taking to crime to alleviate the suffering of the peasantry, or out of dreams of glory, Kelly is born, like all currency, on the edge of the law, and slides gradually over the line under the pressure of poverty, police harassment and family loyalty. At the same time, he is far from a helpless victim of circumstance. Kelly is passionately engaged with his world and his system of honor; the tragedy lies in the radical difference between his understanding of what is honorable, and the definition held by the colonizing English police. As an interesting take on the outlaw archetype, I particularly liked the scene in which Kelly resolves to start robbing banks. Railroaded into hiding after a police-killing that was two-thirds self-defence and one-third accident, Kelly comes to the realization that the only thing capable of protecting him and his brother from the police are the poor inhabitants of the bush, and resolves to win their sympathies by stealing from the relatively rich and giving to the dirt poor. This is a much more practical, yet still sympathetic, picture of the thought process leading to the Robin Hood mode of operation, than the standard assumption of selfless outrage on behalf of the peasantry. I liked it, and I liked Kelly. I also liked the way in which Kelly's genuine affection for, and identification with, the poor folks he wins over with his bank proceeds grows over time, until we get a passage like this one, a last celebratory hurrah on the evening he learns he is a father: These was your own people girl I mean the good people of Greta & Moyhu & Euroa & Benalla who come drifting down the track all through the morn & afternoon & night. How was they told of your birth did the bush telegraph alert them I do not know only that they come the men the women with babies at their breast shivering kiddies with cotton coats their eyes slitted against the wind. They arrived in broken cart & drays they was of that type THE BENALLA ENSIGN named the most frightful class of people they couldnt afford to leave their cows & pigs but they done so because we was them and they was us and we had showed the world what convict blood could do. We proved there were no taint we was of true bone blood and beauty born. Through the dusk & icy starbright night them visitors continued to rise from the earth like winter oats their cold faces was soon pressed through doorway and window and even when the grog wore out they wd. not leave they come to touch my sleeve or clap my back they hitched great logs to their horses' tails to drag them out beside the track. 6 fires these was your birthday candles shining in 200 eyes. The real star of the show here is Kelly's language, and I admired the way Carey escalates the final tragedy by yanking the narrative out of his anti-hero's hands, to be finished by an antagonist - although, in typical Carey fashion, even that antagonism is tinged with ambiguity. From first to last, a truly excellent novel, exhilarating and lovely. If we ever go together to meet Peter Carey, you can tell him I said so...just please don't tell him I have Ned Kelly posters all over my walls. ...more Ned Kelly has been a lifelong obsession of mine, ever since I found an illustrated version of the Kelly Gang's story in my Year 1 classroom's modest library. For a kid who used to watch Sunday afternoon westerns on TV (while acting them out), this was the greatest discovery - a relatable, homegrown tale, and a good tale at that. It wasn't until years later that I realised that there were people who disdained Kelly and his mates as much as I revered them, but before becoming aware of Australian i Ned Kelly has been a lifelong obsession of mine, ever since I found an illustrated version of the Kelly Gang's story in my Year 1 classroom's modest library. For a kid who used to watch Sunday afternoon westerns on TV (while acting them out), this was the greatest discovery - a relatable, homegrown tale, and a good tale at that. It wasn't until years later that I realised that there were people who disdained Kelly and his mates as much as I revered them, but before becoming aware of Australian identity politics, I was content to sit and stare at the watercolour rendering of Ned staggering out of the Glenrowan Inn with a pair of pistols and a very fearsome suit of armour, and with a cast of startled police troopers looking on. Peter Carey's \"The True History of the Kelly Gang\" is a book written for my six-year-old self. It taps into that vein of righteous action that all small boys value, and which they gradually learn to camouflage but never truly lose. Ned is forced to take to the bush because the police have it in for him, and they've locked up his mother, and they've backed him into a corner, and that's a straightforward case of injustice that my 24-year-old self can appreciate every bit as much as his six-year-old counterpart. Then there are all the trimmings: Ned and his brother Dan, and their friends Steve Hart and Joe Byrne go bush and live the high life like Huckleberry Finn; they are masters of their environment, and of every conceivable kind of bushcraft. Then they take to robbing banks, but they do it nicely, and politely, and ingeniously. And what do they do with the money? They give it away, to the people they grew up with, their neighbours, their extended families, to anyone oppressed or downtrodden in the colony of Victoria. When Ned & co finally enter open battle with their oppressors, it is on their terms, and the conflict bears all the hallmarks of a piece of classical mythology: they are twice betrayed, by the traitor Aaron Sherritt, and the duplicitous schoolteacher at Glenrowan; they do battle in the open, in awesome suits of armour that render them all but impermeable in the face of the cowardly traps' gunfire; they fight unceasingly and never surrender, and Ned, knowing that all is lost, launches a final one-man assault on the police lines only to be wounded and taken alive. But even then, he gets the last word, and famously goes to the scaffold with dignity and pith. These are the commonalities between the Ned Kelly experience as a child and as an adult. But there are parts of the Kelly narrative that Carey tweaks, embellishes, and reimagines that add such depth that reading \"True History\" is like reading that Year 1 picture book again for the first time. There's the political aspect (explored quite well in the film, \"Ned Kelly\", starring Heath Ledger and Orlando Bloom as Joe Byrne), a side of the story I would never have appreciated as a young reader. Kelly's bankrobbing is not just a money-spinning exercise - he uses it as an opportunity to have published a letter to the public and to the government of the colony, outlining his grievances, and the wrong perpetrated against his family. The Jerilderie Letter is what sets the Kelly Gang apart from their bushranging counterparts in Australia or the famous outlaws of the American West, and which puts them (perhaps) more on a par with the likes of Robin Hood. Carey's Kelly gang is, in its own limited and naive way, a revolutionary force, a focal point for avariety of very idiosyncratic movements. These include: vague second-generation immigrant feelings of injustice surrounding the treatment of the Irish by the English; a class-based resentment at the power of the wealthy squatters over selectors and other smallholders; and an objection to the arbitrary authority of the police in what was essentially still a frontier community. Carey captures all these sentiments in a patchy and underdeveloped way that makes the reader wonder what the gang would have made of itself had the siege at Glenrowan gone as planned. This is testament to Carey's revolutionary use of narrative voice, which seems to owe something of a debt to James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" for its stream-of-consciousness style and sparse use of punctuation - not to mention its distinctly Irish tone. This style cuts to the heart of the Kelly mystery. Reading \"True History\" out aloud would be a very confusing undertaking, because it swings wildly between Irish and Australian turns of phrase. The conceit is that the book is a (fictional, of course) compilation of papers penned by Kelly himself, and the narrative voice conveys this perfectly. At the heart of the Kelly story is a man who wants to do something important for his people, but is never quite certain whether he is going the right way about it; Carey's Kelly approaches both Irish nationalism and Australian class warfare in an oblique and abortive fashion. And therein lies the true genius of Carey's tale. This is, at the final analysis, an Australian story, with a cast of unprepossessing rustic types trying very hard to avoid anything that looks like a grand gesture. It would be fair to say that Australians appreciate cleverness the simple courage over and above old world (or American) feats of oratory and noble gestures. The greatest moments in the \"True History of the Kelly Gang\" are, as they are in every worthwhile rendition of the story, when twelve-year-old Ned jumps into the creek to save another boy from drowning and is rewarded with a green-and-gold sash by the child's parents, and when the four bushrangers bail up the entire town of Jerilderie for a whole weekend without needing to perpetrate any acts of violence and without alerting the outside authorities. Then, of course, there is the famous Kelly armour, a piece of practical problem solving which, in the national psyche, has always far outweighed the mere sentiment of the Jerilderie Letter. ...more This is the second book I have read from Australian author Peter Carey. He is only the second writer to have won the prestigious Booker Prize twice (the first is another favorite writer of mine, JM Coetzee of South Africa). Carey won his Bookers for this book and for Oscar and Lucinda, the first of his books I've read. What distinguishes each book is the unique voice and writing style Carey uses for each story. While the language of Oscar and Lucinda is sumptuous - almost to the point of being This is the second book I have read from Australian author Peter Carey. He is only the second writer to have won the prestigious Booker Prize twice (the first is another favorite writer of mine, JM Coetzee of South Africa). Carey won his Bookers for this book and for Oscar and Lucinda, the first of his books I've read. What distinguishes each book is the unique voice and writing style Carey uses for each story. While the language of Oscar and Lucinda is sumptuous - almost to the point of being superlative - THKG has language that is coarse and archaic. The language is not obscene (profanities are often demarcated by the terms \"effing\" or \"adjectival\") but the story is rendered in the vernacular of 1870s-rural Australia, and numerous archaic terms are woven throughout the text (sherrick, skillion, chook, phiz, fealty, gloaming, gaol - to name but a few). Kelly Gang also has no punctuation but periods. There are no commas, semi-colons, dashes, hyphens, etc. And sentence upon sentence is often heaped together, running on until the period, like a group of run-on thoughts. I often had to read with my fingers upon the page to keep from falling off the edge of Carey's literary earth. (Also had to have a dictionary beside me for both novels, damn it all.) The differences in organization of both books is worth mentioning: Kelly Gang uses \"found documents\"; the chapters are organized as \"parcels\"; and the chapters are sectioned by a \"catalogue\" of subsequent material and description of \"research material's\" condition. However, after the first section (introduction? Chapter?), which is a short, italicized description of Kelly's death, the narrative moves in a traditional youth-to-death arc, narrated (presumably) by Ned Kelly himself, as the \"found documents\" are supposedly written by him to his daughter. In many ways, this subject matter and organization remind me of Michael Ondaatje's THE COLLECTED WORKS OF BILLY THE KID. Both works focus on a country's most famous outlaw (USA: Billy; AU: Ned), takes place around the same time period, and uses \"found documents\" as well as the first person point of view to tell the outlaw's story, through his own eyes. However, Ondaatje's narrative is far more poetically organized, integrating more white space and lyric essay than Carey's epistolary/traditional novel (personal note: Isn't it wonderful to find an epistolary type novel that WORKS?! Exciting!!). Oscar and Lucinda's organization embraces more of a traditional novel structure (is there a pun for that?) but is also a framed narrative of sorts. The story is being told by Oscar's great-grandson, who clearly could not possibly know all that is written within the story, as the story often is told through side-characters' thoughts and feelings. All of the chapters in O&L are titled, quite playfully, and the story itself cross-cuts between the two title characters who do not actually meet for what seems the LONGEST time. There's a great deal of dichotomies and odd pairings in this novel, a wonderful description of Anglican versus Baptist in the beginning (Oscar's father is one of my favorite characters). There is far less direct dialogue in O& L than in Kelly Gang, and of course, the reader must constantly question his/herself about the narrator, who very seldomly pops into the story to remind the reader that they are hearing a tale. Carey also has a habit of jumping to a future reference (telling readers that Lucinda will lose all her money, but be the happiest she's ever been, then coolly returning to the present story); in this way, he reminds me of <---C>Edward</---C> P Jones' omniscient narrator in THE KNOWN WORLD. Kelly Gang lost me a bit towards the end, when I realized that I couldn't continue trusting Kelly's voice, however, it is an excellent read - challenging and charming and fun and educational and riveting and remarkable. I have to mention that what prompted me to pick up Oscar and Lucinda was Carey's author photo: seated, leaning forward, hands clasped in front of him, with a huge grin on his face. Marvelous to find an author photo that is not some gloomy, pretentious glowering countenace with a holier-than-thou edge. Instead, Carey looks excited, thrilled, tickled even, that he has written a book. Utterly charming. ...more \u00daltima fotografia de Ned Kelly - tirada por Charles Nettleton (10 Novembro 1880) \u201cA Verdadeira Hist\u00f3ria do Bando de Ned Kelly\u201d \u00e9 um romance do escritor australiano Peter Carey (n. 1943) que foi laureado com o Man Booker Prize for Fiction em 2001. O Man Booker Prize for Fiction \u00e9 um dos pr\u00e9mios liter\u00e1rios que mais valorizo; quase sempre s\u00e3o premiados livros no g\u00e9nero romance ou no g\u00e9nero romance hist\u00f3rico, e que t\u00eam contribu\u00eddo, definitivamente, para algumas das minhas melhores leituras. Peter Care \u00daltima fotografia de Ned Kelly - tirada por Charles Nettleton (10 Novembro 1880) \u201cA Verdadeira Hist\u00f3ria do Bando de Ned Kelly\u201d \u00e9 um romance do escritor australiano Peter Carey (n. 1943) que foi laureado com o Man Booker Prize for Fiction em 2001. O Man Booker Prize for Fiction \u00e9 um dos pr\u00e9mios liter\u00e1rios que mais valorizo; quase sempre s\u00e3o premiados livros no g\u00e9nero romance ou no g\u00e9nero romance hist\u00f3rico, e que t\u00eam contribu\u00eddo, definitivamente, para algumas das minhas melhores leituras. Peter Carey dividiu a narrativa de \"A Verdadeira Hist\u00f3ria do Bando de Ned Kelly\" em treze Volumes - sobre a vida do famoso \"fora-de-lei\" australiano Ned Kelly (1854 - 1880). No in\u00edcio de cada Volume existe uma breve descri\u00e7\u00e3o do estado dos manuscritos originais e um resumo sobre os factos e os testemunhos autobiogr\u00e1ficos que ocorrem em determinado per\u00edodo da sua vida. A narrativa desenrola-se numa abordagem \u201chist\u00f3rica\u201d de Ned Kelly para a sua filha, come\u00e7ando nos doze anos e terminando aos vinte seis anos. A escrita de \u201cA Verdadeira Hist\u00f3ria do Bando de Ned Kelly\u201d \u00e9 \"estranha\" e \u201coriginal\u201d - os documentos s\u00e3o autobiogr\u00e1ficos - numa prosa semi-analfabeta, quase sem pontua\u00e7\u00e3o e sem preocupa\u00e7\u00f5es gramaticais, recriando a \u201cvoz\u201d de Ned Kelly , de uma forma directa, sincera, mas intensamente reflexiva. \u00c9 neste contexto de estranheza que o leitor tem que se adaptar e ajustar \u00e0 forma da concep\u00e7\u00e3o das frases, numa integra\u00e7\u00e3o progressiva das ideias, da ac\u00e7\u00e3o e dos pensamentos das personagens. Mas mais do que tomar partido ou emitir ju\u00edzos de valor sobre Ned Kelly e o seu bando, incluindo, o seu irm\u00e3o Dan, Peter Carey , pretende acentuar o dramatismo e o suspense da narrativa, n\u00e3o se restringindo unicamente na aparente inexplicabilidade das circunst\u00e2ncias que levaram ao desfecho tr\u00e1gico e dram\u00e1tico de Ned Kelly e do seu bando, mas tamb\u00e9m no poder mal\u00e9volo da injusti\u00e7a, da trai\u00e7\u00e3o, da conflitualidade e da confiabilidade das pessoas. \u201cA Verdadeira Hist\u00f3ria do Bando de Ned Kelly\u201d \u00e9 um excelente romance, Recomendado : para quem adora \u201cwesterns\u201d e \u201cher\u00f3is\u201d que desafiam o poder das autoridades, independentemente, de que lado da lei se encontram, entre a honestidade e a criminalidade; e para quem valoriza a jun\u00e7\u00e3o da \u201cn\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d com a \u201cfic\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d, e a originalidade da prosa e da narrativa. A casa dos Kelly\u00b4s, constru\u00edda pelo pai de Ned Kelly em Beveridge em 1859 ...more Carey's Booker award-winning novel is an earthy, captivating recitation of the legend of Australia's most famous bushranger (outlaw), Ned Kelly. In a masterstroke of literary ventriloquism, the novel is narrated in Kelly's blunt, inelegant voice and a kind of profane and ragged poetry flows from the page. The novel opens with an account of the famous shoot-out near Glenrowan where Ned Kelly \u2013 in his cast-iron armour and helmet \u2013\u00a0was finally captured, shot in the legs by police. It then tells his Carey's Booker award-winning novel is an earthy, captivating recitation of the legend of Australia's most famous bushranger (outlaw), Ned Kelly. In a masterstroke of literary ventriloquism, the novel is narrated in Kelly's blunt, inelegant voice and a kind of profane and ragged poetry flows from the page. The novel opens with an account of the famous shoot-out near Glenrowan where Ned Kelly \u2013 in his cast-iron armour and helmet \u2013\u00a0was finally captured, shot in the legs by police. It then tells his story, traces his history of run-ins with the police, and with indifferent and rapacious authorities. The class and ethnic differences, English and Irish, landowner and labourer, that were imported whole into the Australian colonies from the mother country are starkly illuminated in countless run-ins with police, false accusations, threats and indignities imposed by the authorities and landowners on the Kelly family. There's a grim inevitability to Kelly's formation, and eventual execution, as bushranger. It's hard to pick a favourite passage, so I'll just pick one almost at random. A passage like the following highlights the fierce loyalty that Kelly had to family as well as the vulnerability and poverty of many Irish settlers. The understated strength of the diction, the barely-thereness of punctuation, both contribute to a sense of urgency and menace as Kelly rides to bring back his mother's lover. Simple adjectives, \"reptile eyes\", glint like malevolent jewels in the plain prose. Maggie Maggie fetch Bill back. Maggie wouldnt budge so my mother turned to me her cheeks was wet and shining. Don't go Maggie said. You effing get him cried my mother if you don't do nothing else for me do this. you go get him and say you're sorry. We'll starve without his wages. Then we heard a horse galloping full tilt down the track my mother collapsed onto the floor in great torment. He's the father of my babe cried she. Very well I said I'll fetch the mongrel. There was a good moon so I found him easy enough he were no longer galloping but walking his horse in the direction of his employment. I told him my mother had asked me to apologise and he would be wise to give her that impression. For my own part I could only say that if he ever abandoned her I would come and shoot him while he slept. I saw his reptile eyes in the moonlight staring at me. He didnt say a word but together we turned riding slowly back towards my home. If I had to pick just one Australian novel to recommend, this would probably be it. ...more First of all, let me say that Peter Carey is a splendid writer and a great stylist. The rhythm and melody of the language is what sets this novel apart, and make the story come alive. It makes it more folkish, colloquial alive. The writing reminds me a bit of Cormac McCarthy, strict, colourless, but very often poetic. Carey stylised the novel on \u201cJerilderie Letter\u201d the only document we know that was written by Kelly, one year before he was executed. In the letter, he tries to explain, justify his First of all, let me say that Peter Carey is a splendid writer and a great stylist. The rhythm and melody of the language is what sets this novel apart, and make the story come alive. It makes it more folkish, colloquial alive. The writing reminds me a bit of Cormac McCarthy, strict, colourless, but very often poetic. Carey stylised the novel on \u201cJerilderie Letter\u201d the only document we know that was written by Kelly, one year before he was executed. In the letter, he tries to explain, justify his life. Secondly, Carey revokes the national Australian myth while asking important questions of representation of history and national identity. In Australia, Ned Kelly is seen by many as a national icon ( his image being placed on center stage during the opening ceremonies of the Olympic Games 2000). Aside from the fact that some still see him as criminal and murderer, he is quite widely thought to be a hero of the oppressed and a father of Australian nationalism. I started this short explanation from what is great about True History of the Kelly Gang, and what every critic points out. All aforementioned is great, the problem was I absolutely didn't gave a fuck about the story that is dragging endlessly. Every page of the novel seemed like the one preceding it, over and over again. Petty crimes growing to bigger crimes, Ned criminalizing himself more and more due to, for some part ,probably less that he would like us to believe though, circumstances nobody would be able to fight with. He himself being cute and not too bad so we wouldn't despise him. I was longing for the ending form page 100 or so. The ida, the main themes of the novel are interesting and I was expecting to love it. The execution and the story telling was my biggest problem though, I just didn't enjoy reading it at all. ...more This was one of those novels that I was dreading reading. I did so only because I'm doing the Booker Prize winners, and this was a necessary evil before getting to The Life of Pi. I knew (or thought I knew!) the story beforehand, and my quick flick when I bought the book a few months ago revealed a style of writing that I thought was going to become very tiresome. How wrong was I! This was a fantastic book. The writing wasn't hard going at all, which on reflection is kind of surprising given the e This was one of those novels that I was dreading reading. I did so only because I'm doing the Booker Prize winners, and this was a necessary evil before getting to The Life of Pi. I knew (or thought I knew!) the story beforehand, and my quick flick when I bought the book a few months ago revealed a style of writing that I thought was going to become very tiresome. How wrong was I! This was a fantastic book. The writing wasn't hard going at all, which on reflection is kind of surprising given the extraordinarily long sentences and sparcity of punctuation. Written as if it were Ned Kelly himself documenting his memoirs, the style worked perfectly. The most surprising thing for me was the depth of some of the anecdotes, such as an encounter with a banshee. Obviously not a truly 'true account', these served to blur the line between reality and fiction and it was hard to know what to believe, if anything at all. One of the gang was a transvestite? Was he really? The legend of Ned Kelly has taken on mythical proportions in Australia, and it therefore seemed appropriate that I often questioned the depiction of events. What parts of it were true? To be honest, I prefer the myth, and would rather not know. The most important thing about the anecdotes was that they were a pleasure to read - whether they conjured a chuckle, or stirred in me a sense of injustice, I was constantly affected by them. Oh, and even though I don't think the cover has anything at all to do with the Kelly family, check out the freaky girl in the portrait... ...more Admittedly, audio books are not my preferred way to \"read\", but they serve a useful purpose on long car trips, which was the case here. This story, set in Australia and lauded by many reviewers, tells the tale of folk hero Ned Kelly, a Billy the Kid type of outlaw, through a series of letters he left behind for his daughter after his execution at age 25. He was a real person, not a fictional character, although the author apparently created/imagined most of his life story for this book. Ned's cha Admittedly, audio books are not my preferred way to \"read\", but they serve a useful purpose on long car trips, which was the case here. This story, set in Australia and lauded by many reviewers, tells the tale of folk hero Ned Kelly, a Billy the Kid type of outlaw, through a series of letters he left behind for his daughter after his execution at age 25. He was a real person, not a fictional character, although the author apparently created/imagined most of his life story for this book. Ned's character held a certain allure -- he seemed to be a victim of his circumstances and upbringing, not a sociopath, and he came across quite innocent and charming -- but after finishing 8 of the 13 CD's during the course of my trip, I had had enough and didn't continue on with the story once I reached my destination. It was obvious that things were building from petty crimes and guilt-by association episodes to the big-time felonies that eventually caused his demise, but it was taking too long to get to that point. Maybe someday, on another car ride, I'll finish the story. I find no fault with either the writing, which was almost lyrical at times, or the reading performance by Mr. Negroponte, also quite good, and I realize that Mr. Carey is a Booker Prize winner, but I needed to be more intrigued, I suppose. I just didn't care enough about Ned's sad story to invest more time with him. ...more This is one of the sweetest songs of self respect I've ever encountered. I'm admittedly enamored with Ned Kelly as one of the truest badasses of all time so it was great to hear the story from his perspective. I loved the style of the book and even though it was written in old Irish vernacular it was easy for me to get right into the rhythm. I almost gave this 4 stars because of a brief section that didn't really seem to fit in with the rest of the plot but the rest of the novel was so unique an This is one of the sweetest songs of self respect I've ever encountered. I'm admittedly enamored with Ned Kelly as one of the truest badasses of all time so it was great to hear the story from his perspective. I loved the style of the book and even though it was written in old Irish vernacular it was easy for me to get right into the rhythm. I almost gave this 4 stars because of a brief section that didn't really seem to fit in with the rest of the plot but the rest of the novel was so unique and special that I'm still giving it 5. There were many lines and even entire sections that I underlined which I rarely do with novels. It's also rare for me to read a book more than once but I will definitely be rereading this one. One of the coolest notes about the book is that it was inspired by the Jerilderie Letter, which was a 56 page letter written by Ned Kelly in 1879 in the same vernacular as this book. In the letter Kelly attempts to explain not only his situation but the story of an entire class of people. He unapologetically stands by his convictions and is not persuaded by lies about his self worth just because he is Irish and lives in poverty. I've read the letter and I must say Carey nailed it in carrying out Kelly's voice throughout the entirety of this novel. This book is funny, honorable, straightforward and a great story. ...more Crafting a confessionary tale in the persona of Ned Kelly , the Australian outlaw and bushranger, Peter Carey tells a terrific tale, one that is not quite a \u201ctrue history,\u201d but is all the same compelling. In a story that feels like an Irish folktale, a late 19th-century memoir and a western swashbuckler, Carey creates an alternate Kelly\u2014-a flawed, but earnest folk hero, fighting against colonial oppression. Setting up a narrative frame of a manuscript that never was, we are told Kelly\u2019s story thr Crafting a confessionary tale in the persona of Ned Kelly , the Australian outlaw and bushranger, Peter Carey tells a terrific tale, one that is not quite a \u201ctrue history,\u201d but is all the same compelling. In a story that feels like an Irish folktale, a late 19th-century memoir and a western swashbuckler, Carey creates an alternate Kelly\u2014-a flawed, but earnest folk hero, fighting against colonial oppression. Setting up a narrative frame of a manuscript that never was, we are told Kelly\u2019s story through \"13 parcels of stained and dog-eared papers.\" These parcels are written to his unborn infant daughter, and because of that Kelly censors his rambling, ungrammatical prose in way that\u2019s both funny and poignant: She used many rough expressions I will not write them here. It were eff this and ess that and she would blow their adjectival brains out. As Kelly narrates his life, we are given glimpse of a man who suffered injustice, fought oppression and (at least according to Carey\u2019s re-telling) driven to his life as horse thief, bank robber and murderer by a structure that would never let him succeed. ...more", "Title": "True History of the Kelly Gang"},
