{"Comments": "10. You are a book, <+++>The Raw Shark Texts</+++>.<---F> You are an unstable narrative</---F>. You are a story of loss and love and memory, of a broken heart and a broken mind. You are a mystery; you are a postmodern text; you are equal parts Burroughs and Palahniuk and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. You are a first novel, complete with a first novel's typical weaknesses: a certain stridency and repetitiousness that is occasionally tedious, a tendency towards wanting to amaze the audience with your brilliance, 10. You are a book, <+++>The Raw Shark Texts</+++>. You are an unstable narrative. You are a story of loss and love and memory, of a broken heart and a broken mind. You are a mystery; you are a postmodern text; you are equal parts Burroughs and Palahniuk and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. You are a first novel, complete with a first novel's typical weaknesses: a certain stridency and repetitiousness that is occasionally tedious, a tendency towards wanting to amaze the audience with your brilliance, characters and dialogue that are intended to be cheeky & real but often come across as precious & cutesy-poo. You are overlong. Still, your ambition is pleasing. Your level of writing ability is impressive. There is a mad genius to it. You exist on multiple levels. You excited me,<---M> then bored me</---M>, then excited me anew. You made me think on many things: new ideas and old, what is a person, what is an emotion, what makes a concept real. You are a book that this reviewer rather Liked. well, in a 3-star sort of way. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ 9. You are the protagonist. You have no name, no memory, no life. You have a dissociative disorder, you suffer from psychotropic fugue. You have a cat named Ian and a house bereft of clues. You wake up in this empty house and follow the instructions that your former self has left for you. You see your psychiatrist, who tells you little besides platitudes. You begin to receive letters and packages from your former self, clues to your mystery, a path to follow. You have an enemy: 8. You are the Ludovician shark. You are a conceptual predator. You devour memories whole; you leave your victims emptied out, you take what is them and you eat it. You will follow your prey anywhere. 7. You are Mark Richardson. You are the assumed identity of a man who does not know himself. You are on a journey through un-space , those places built and then left by man, those empty spaces. You must find Dr. Fidorous, your uncertain ally. You encounter Mr. Nobody, a hollow vessel. You are rescued by a girl: 6. You are Scout. Or are you? You have lived in un-space for so many years. Are you a figment of imagination, a hope, a resurrection of a dead girlfriend? It matters not; you are on the run. You rescue Mark Richardson, but you have your own motives and agenda. You must destroy your own enemy: 5. You are Mycroft Ward. You are old and rich, an industrialist, a man who wants to live forever. You come up with a plan: duplicate your brain patterns, imprint them on another. You succeed. You do it again. You succeed again. There becomes more and more of you; few whom you target are able to escape - the girl Scout is one of them. You search for her as you multiply. You multiply. You multiply. You are legion. 4. You are a conceptual shark boat named The Orpheus . You are made by Dr. Fidorous to kill a mind shark and to destroy a multiple man. You are composed of planks of wood, boxes, 80s computers, plastic barrels, cardboard, stepladders, an office chair, coat hangers, a desk fan. You are transformed; you become real. The hunt is on. 3. You are Eric Sanderson. Your girlfriend - the love of your life - has died on a trip to Greece. You blame yourself. You empty your mind; you become nothing, a living un-space. You are not to blame, Eric. You must free yourself. You die; you are reborn. (hide spoiler) ] ______ 2. \" - the view becomes the reflection, and the reflection, the view.\" (view spoiler) [ 1. You are a cat. Your name is Ian. You are in dire need of attitude adjustment. You are carried in your cat carrier on a bleak journey, a grey adventure, by Mark Richardson and the woman known as Scout. You are last seen in a distant swell, in a bobbing yellow dinghy, forlorn, alone... to be rescued? Perhaps. Hopefully. You are my favorite part of the novel. (hide spoiler) ] ...more You know what I like? This whole genre of stuffy British dudes who find themselves unwillingly going on adventures and discovering that there's more to them than just being pasty and flustered. And, yeah, it's a genre. There's TONS of books with that same damn plot. Thing is, they're often very entertaining. They're also usually played for laughs. Which is not the case in The Raw Shark Texts. Yes, the protagonist eventually finds himself drawn into a world where the old rules don't apply. Yes, he h You know what I like? This whole genre of stuffy British dudes who find themselves unwillingly going on adventures and discovering that there's more to them than just being pasty and flustered. And, yeah, it's a genre. There's TONS of books with that same damn plot. Thing is, they're often very entertaining. They're also usually played for laughs. Which is not the case in The Raw Shark Texts. Yes, the protagonist eventually finds himself drawn into a world where the old rules don't apply. Yes, he has an adventure. Yes, he even has a sidekick in the form of an irascible, unflappable (fortunately, non-talking) ginger cat. But it's a story of confusion and grief and loss. Eric Sanderson has lost everything he ever held dear, including himself, beginning with a stupid, everyday accident and culminating in the predations of a conceptual beast who feeds on memory and swims the currents of ideas and information. It's a very meta sort of story, with much of the narrative being dedicated to the biology of ideas and memes, how they grow and evolve, how they have their own ecosystem that interacts with our material one. There's also a fair bit of fourth-wall breaking (but not in the usual sense) as the words and type on the page are molded and re-arrange to become more illustration than text. I'm not sure I can properly review this book, I really don't have the language for it. But I can assure you, even if the plot is a bit familiar, the ideas are quite unlike anything you're likely to have encountered. ...more (There might be very minor spoilers here but I doubt they will make any sense to you if you haven't read the book, so read on, unles you are uber-paranoid about spoilers) \u201cThe Raw Shark Texts\u201d. It\u2019s supposed to be a literary psychological thriller where Jorge Luis Borges meets Danielewski meets Matrix meets Fight Club meets Jaws. I thought: Oh dear. Steve, I hope you know what you are running up against and I hope your game is tight. The book starts with the main character waking up on the floor n (There might be very minor spoilers here but I doubt they will make any sense to you if you haven't read the book, so read on, unles you are uber-paranoid about spoilers) \u201cThe Raw Shark Texts\u201d. It\u2019s supposed to be a literary psychological thriller where Jorge Luis Borges meets Danielewski meets Matrix meets Fight Club meets Jaws. I thought: Oh dear. Steve, I hope you know what you are running up against and I hope your game is tight. The book starts with the main character waking up on the floor not knowing who or where he is. His personal memory seems to have been wiped clean. This is a tried and tested opening that is sure to grip anyone from the first page. The problem with it is that you have to back it up. The book has to live up to its premise. I give credit where credit is due \u2013 Steve Hall had a superb idea. Our narrator, Eric Sanderson, is hunted by a kind of conceptual fish (the kind of fish that lives in a purely abstract world and feeds on thoughts, ideas, memories). Somehow he stepped on the toe of the most dangerous conceptual fish out there \u2013 the Ludovician, a conceptual equivalent of the great white shark. And it eats his memory. Nom, nom, nom. There are also very funny/scary (albeit gimmicky) typographical illustrations in the text. They even looked cute on my kindle. While I think the idea was brilliant, I feel there was a little of wasted opportunity there. We are made to understand that the way to fight the shark (or at least to keep it at bay, so to speak) is to use so some sort of flow of information to throw him off your scent and set up a conceptual loop which works like a shark cage. And our hero uses other people\u2019s post and Dictaphones to do that. Dictaphones? What is it, 1985? What else? Maybe he should fax the shark as well? Why not set up some computers with facebook and twitter accounts that would constantly get new followers and feedback to each other ad infinitum. Perfect conceptual loop! Or why throw \u2018letter bombs\u2019 (made of shredded phone books and such) at your shark? Why not treat it with a stream of penis enlargement and Russian brides spam? That should send it all the way back to last century. Why go through other people\u2019s post where you can just download their blogs, twitters, tumblrs, facebooks, and emails? I mean, if I were looking for tons of pointless information, the Internet would be the first place I would go to. But fine, Steve. I am with you. Let\u2019s party like it\u2019s 1985, Dictaphones and all. So I am suspending my disbelief, conceptual sharks, some zombie like figures, Un-space (yeah, me neither) until Hall introduces Eric\u2019s love interest in its two incarnations Scout and Clio. And boy, oh, boy, ain\u2019t she a dream come true for any nerdy boy? She\u2019s got boobs and likes to show them, she knows about computers, rides a motorcycle, and talks like she is reading a sitcom script. She never mentions kids or marriage. She is a superhero but also slightly damaged inside so can be occasionally protected. She is Lara Croft meets Leelo from the Fifth Element. And here comes the love story with the extra cheese on top. Here comes the melodrama when Eric decides to sulk for half of the book over something that a PMSing sixteen year old girl would have a hard time sulking over for longer than 40 minutes. I can\u2019t take this. I shout : \u201cJeez louise, Steve, what are you doing? Why are you doing it?\u201d. And then at the end, Steve tells my why he was doing it. And it makes sense, and I get it. And he knew that I knew, but I didn\u2019t know that he knew that I knew. And ha, ha, the joke is on me. But you know what, Steve, I could\u2019ve stopped reading there and then if I wasn\u2019t so OCD about finishing every book that I start. I really do get it, but I still don\u2019t know why I was forced to read 100 or so pages of that bad soap-opera. So there goes one star from what could\u2019ve been a four star book. And then of course there is the ending... Oh. ...more A brief behind-the-scenes recap of \"The Raw Shark Texts\": <---A>Steven Hall</---A> is inspired. Writes a brilliant one hundred pages of an unfinished novel. The first hundred pages of 'The Raw Shark Texts' are truly a great read, hinting at something avant-garde, something page-turning in the finest sense of the term. We're all clicking off the rusty old disbelief mechanisms because 'The Raw Shark Texts' is putting it all together. OK, sure, it is yet another \"piece-my-life-back-together-after-what-would-see A brief behind-the-scenes recap of \"The Raw Shark Texts\": Steven Hall is inspired. Writes a brilliant one hundred pages of an unfinished novel. The first hundred pages of 'The Raw Shark Texts' are truly a great read, hinting at something avant-garde, something page-turning in the finest sense of the term. We're all clicking off the rusty old disbelief mechanisms because 'The Raw Shark Texts' is putting it all together. OK, sure, it is yet another \"piece-my-life-back-together-after-what-would-seem-to-be-amnesia\" kind of plot, but it is raging, it is rythmic and totally unapolagetic, like screw you if you think you've heard this song before. Steven Hall is promising to tease out the mystery with total originality and brio. The characterization of the shrink in particular is extraordinary. What is going on here? The reader awaits, the reader is prepared to suspend many further unknown belief mechanisms... Then: Steven Hall is feeling kind of dull and uninspired, but here we go. Up and at 'em! Another 200 pages of \"The Raw Shark Texts\" coming at ya. Ah-hem... Kicking in with cutesy-poo winsome boy-meets-girl capers in post-modern clich\u00e8land... But Steven Hall is just MESSING WITH YOU, get it? Ok, ok, let's get back to the good stuff. Then: \"JAWS.\" Yeah, we're gonna re-do JAWS. But it's gonna be, like, a CONCEPT SHARK, get it? No? That's ok, really, no problem. Because the girl who appears out of nowhere but could also (but might not) be the over-simplified key to an overly-convoluted plot is, like, fortunately, the MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL OUR MEMORY LOSS DUDE HAS EVER SEEN and, like, THE COOLEST GIRL EVER, and, umm, let's see, SHE DROPS TONS OF WITTY ONE-LINERS and stuff. Also: This might be the afterlife. Or: A dream. I mean: It's what you what you might think if you're in a coma. Then: This reader is thinking: I can't believe I finished this awful fraud of a book. ...more For sheer ballsy creativity The Raw Shark Texts is an incendiary word bomb of conceptual fish, mad world hungry pseudo-immortals, movie geekdom, Greek tragedy and cats with mundane names. To say there is something lacking in Steven Hall 's first novel seems unfair and trite, but I can't shake the feeling that something in Eric Sanderson's relationship with Clio/Scout felt too forced and way too indoctrinated by current gender attitudes. If that was by design I can't imagine what the design was; if For sheer ballsy creativity The Raw Shark Texts is an incendiary word bomb of conceptual fish, mad world hungry pseudo-immortals, movie geekdom, Greek tragedy and cats with mundane names. To say there is something lacking in Steven Hall 's first novel seems unfair and trite, but I can't shake the feeling that something in Eric Sanderson's relationship with Clio/Scout felt too forced and way too indoctrinated by current gender attitudes. If that was by design I can't imagine what the design was; if it was merely the truth that Hall found in his characters I have to admit that I couldn't see that truth. That could be down to me. Besides, it seems a petty complaint when weighed against the moments of sheer genius in Steven Hall's debut. I know I will be back for multiple reads because there are so many questions I need to examine again and again. I almost started listing them here, but instead I will simply provide words for which I am compelled to seek answers: Dr. Ryan Mitchell. Dr. Randle. Mycroft Ward. Ian. Greg. Ludovician (one of the all time great antagonists in any novel -- ever). Eric Richardson the first, the other, the second. The Raw Shark Texts is a rich mine of thought that I look forward to returning to, and Steven Hall is threatening to enter the rarefied upper region of my personal literary canon. I just hope he doesn't slip in the direction of Chuck Pahlaniuk with his next work. Promising beginnings can so often become failure to live up to potential. Oh well, who cares? I'll always have The Raw Shark Texts to enjoy if the future doesn't work out. ...more Duh Dum. Duh Dum. Dum dum dum dum dum dum DUM!!!!! Ok that was a poor attempt to mimic the Jaws theme tune in text format, but hey, it's not that easy. On Animosity Island, everyone is looking forward to the summer season. The picket fences are suitably white, the sky is picture-postcard blue and the beaches of fine yellow sand are ready to receive the beach towels and inflatable toys of hundreds of British holiday makers. For Chief Brady, head of the Animosity Island police department, there is one Duh Dum. Duh Dum. Dum dum dum dum dum dum DUM!!!!! Ok that was a poor attempt to mimic the Jaws theme tune in text format, but hey, it's not that easy. On Animosity Island, everyone is looking forward to the summer season. The picket fences are suitably white, the sky is picture-postcard blue and the beaches of fine yellow sand are ready to receive the beach towels and inflatable toys of hundreds of British holiday makers. For Chief Brady, head of the Animosity Island police department, there is one fly in the sunscreen - there's something in the water. A girl is washed up on the beach with huge L's and U's bitten out of her. Then little Alex Kidney is ripped from his inflatable doughnut and reduced to nothing more than a red ink blot on the ocean waves. Chief Brady and his faithful sidekick Mitt Hopper(renowned beard wearer and oceanographer) take to the high seas to investigate. They quickly stumble upon the half submerged and chewed up remains of a boat belonging to a local fisherman. When Hopper explores the damaged hull he is startled to find a huge letter U embedded in the hull. Then suddenly the boat shifts and a copy of the Raw Shark Texts drops in front of him. Hopper screams and breaks for the surface. THIS IS NOT WHAT THE RAW SHARK TEXTS IS ABOUT But it does contain some heavy referencing to Jaws and as I love that film, then that's ok by me. The Raw Shark texts is conceptually quite brilliant and I have to admit I loved parts of it. The first Eric Sanderson has been \"eaten\" by a Ludovician, a conceptual shark which follows the stream of information that people generate (thoughts, conversations, mail, emails) and slowly takes great big bitey chunks out of their memory until they become a sort of un-person. Brilliant. Conceptual sharks. Love it. Remnants of Eric survive these shark induced fugue states and so following notes left by the First Eric Sanderson, the Second Eric Sanderson tries to catch and kill the Ludovician before he's a goner too. In order to do this Eric has to hunt down Dr Trey Fidorous who lives in un-space. Un-space which is entered via Waterstones. Brilliant. To this end he is accompanied by Ian the cat and Scout who is an un-version of the improbably super-cool girlfriend Clio Aames. There are all sorts of other \"I'm mad but you're not supposed to know how mad\" subtext occurring, most of which is based around the death of Clio Aames, improbably super-cool girlfriend of the First Eric Sanderson. Women reading this will in all likelihood intensely dislike the conceptual memory of Clio Aames. I was secretly hoping that she got eaten by a real shark and that is why she wasn't around any more. Sadly not. In the end the attempt to catch and kill the Ludovician is based on the shark-chase scene in Jaws, complete with a couple of chapter titles which are an outright homage to these ad-lib-ed scenes, including Farewell and adieu to you fair Spanish Ladies . If this book also had a chapter called Show me the way to go home, I'm tired and I want to go to bed then I might well have given it five stars. Wikipedia also says that as well as the 36 chapters of the book I've just read, there are also a series of 36 un-chapters which have to be hunted down on line. This book is clever. This is also the kind of marketing wet dream that causes publishers to have a little sex wee and hi-five each other for being seven kinds of zeitgeist. Probably not as clever as House of Leaves and a number of people have dubbed it House of Leaves-lite (or maybe it was just me, I forget as the Ludovician has been taking chunks out of my own memory recently). Anyway the star of the show was Ian the cat. He survived and wasn't as mad as Eric Sanderson (either versions one or two) and he wasn't as smug as Clio Aames either. ...more A bit oversold, but certainly creative at times with a sprinkling of novel ideas which for me, almost worked; but not quite. At heart this is a simple love story, which I didn't mind as I quite like simple love stories, being an old romantic at heart. That the love story was between a man whose memories had been eaten by a conceptual shark (see later) and a woman who he may have loved in his pre memory loss existence who is now dead (but not a ghost - nothing supernatural here) matters not a jot. A bit oversold, but certainly creative at times with a sprinkling of novel ideas which for me, almost worked; but not quite. At heart this is a simple love story, which I didn't mind as I quite like simple love stories, being an old romantic at heart. That the love story was between a man whose memories had been eaten by a conceptual shark (see later) and a woman who he may have loved in his pre memory loss existence who is now dead (but not a ghost - nothing supernatural here) matters not a jot. There are homages all over the book and references to films and books. Lots to Casablanca and of course Jaws; the last part of the film is played out at the end of the book. There are quite a few oddities. A character we never meet called Mycroft Ward decides in the mid 19th century that he really does not want to die. He studies hypnotism and finds a younger suggestive subject and hypnotically gives him great detail about his own life and becomes him. He continues to do this creating a number of versions of himself. He eventually becomes an internet database. Now the fish. The novel depends on the idea that there exist conceptual fish that feed on ... well, concepts and ideas. The Ludovician is a large conceptual shark that feeds on memories and seems have have developed a liking for Eric, the main character in the book. Eric recieves messages from his previous self in the mail and from other sources telling him how to protect himself. There is also unspace; the empty spaces in our modern urban world, behind shops, empty factories and warehouses, railway sidings. The whole thing reaches a climax in the conceptual world, which becomes real to the protagomists. I quite like that idea. There are some quite clever ideas and it has cult classic written all over it; I also suspect it is designed to be filmed; although quite how they're going to manage conceptual fish! The ending is a bit of a cop out and the first part of the book deserves better. It is entertaining, but on closer examination rather flimsy. Apparently for each chapter in the book there is a negative (or unchapter) out in the world somewhere; on line, in other editions of the book or yet to be discovered. Am I bothered enough to seek them out; nope. That may tell you all you need to know I did like Ian the cat and had every sympathy with him being dragged around Eric's rather mad adventures. ...more The Raw Shark Texts was released back in 2007 by first time U.K. author, Steven Hall. In some circles, it\u2019s been referred to as some bizarre cross between Jaws and The Matrix with perhaps a little Da Vinci Code thrown in there for good measure. It follows the story of Eric Saunderson who awakes on his bedroom floor without any memories. While the man retains his basic motor functions, he remembers nothing resembling emotions or sense of identity. Shortly upon awaking, Eric finds a note left by t The Raw Shark Texts was released back in 2007 by first time U.K. author, Steven Hall. In some circles, it\u2019s been referred to as some bizarre cross between Jaws and The Matrix with perhaps a little Da Vinci Code thrown in there for good measure. It follows the story of Eric Saunderson who awakes on his bedroom floor without any memories. While the man retains his basic motor functions, he remembers nothing resembling emotions or sense of identity. Shortly upon awaking, Eric finds a note left by the \u201cfirst Eric Saunderson\u201d with basic instructions on how to resume his life. From this point forward a proverbial can of worms is opened and the mystery unfolds itself in an addictive way, by which I mean, it\u2019s really hard to put this book down. I had an experience like this when I read \u201cHouse of Leaves\u201d. The stories are quite different but the layout is just as ambitious. While Danielewski goes above and beyond with liner and foot notes as well as scratches and interchanging fonts, Hall goes with long gaps of pages with little to no words as well as diagrams and exhibits. The changing style throughout the novel really adds to the experience and gets the reader more involved in what is happening to Eric\u2019s world. There\u2019s something about this style that I really like. I guess it\u2019s refreshing to pick up a book that not only feels different but looks different as well. Some people could probably write this off as some sort of gimmick but changing things up once in a while should be welcomed. While Hall is working on a second book, whether he can produce something on par to Raw Shark Texts remains to be seen but I know that I\u2019ll be checking it out. Let\u2019s just hope he doesn\u2019t go in the direction of Danielewski\u2019s Only Revolutions . Cross posted @ Every Read Thing ...more Ugh. I struck out with this one. This was something I'd been wanting to read for awhile. It's looked super enticing on my bookshelf and when I finally had it in my hands I was brimming with excitement. I had read the first couple pages awhile back and knew that this was the kind of book that grabbed you from the get go. And welp! That's about the only time it grabbed me, it grabbed me then and let me go about 75 pages in. Maybe I'm just not smart enough...but the whole concept of \"conceptual\" shar Ugh. I struck out with this one. This was something I'd been wanting to read for awhile. It's looked super enticing on my bookshelf and when I finally had it in my hands I was brimming with excitement. I had read the first couple pages awhile back and knew that this was the kind of book that grabbed you from the get go. And welp! That's about the only time it grabbed me, it grabbed me then and let me go about 75 pages in. Maybe I'm just not smart enough...but the whole concept of \"conceptual\" sharks and predators was just...weird? For me.(weird--for lack of a better word) Once I realized that that was what the entire book was about and I would be stuck in the world of conceptual fish that can recognize you or bits of your personality if they somehow push thru the efforts made to keep hidden & then come back to erase your memory AGAIN. I felt cheated. And apparently these sharks hold grudges, they nibble till the death if they get any hint of your essence floatin around in conceptual space. Or un-space? Whatever. Point is--I did NOT dig it. And I know a lotta people really did so that kind of makes me feel stupid but it's not that I didn't understand what was going on...I just didn't LIKE what was going on. I like living in the real world, or in a fantasy world...NOT a conceptual one. And Clio. (Named after the goddess of history I presume? Which is obviously appropriate-ties in with memory and all that very neatly and clearly) I liked clio. Slash scout. Every nerd girl's role model and every nerd guy's dream. But I would have rather had the story play out some other way. Try it out, see for yourself. I truly believe each book means something different to every person! ...more I give up. I'm nearly halfway through the book and I'm putting it down. Maybe, at another time, I'll pick it up again and feel differently but the action/adventure vibe just isn't sitting with me at all. It's like reading The Celestine Prophecy -which I did many, many moons ago- only without the big morality question leading you through to the end. Or, it's like reading Haruki Murakami without his talent for subtle storytelling. Or -sorry to go overboard on this- it's like reading House of Leave I give up. I'm nearly halfway through the book and I'm putting it down. Maybe, at another time, I'll pick it up again and feel differently but the action/adventure vibe just isn't sitting with me at all. It's like reading The Celestine Prophecy -which I did many, many moons ago- only without the big morality question leading you through to the end. Or, it's like reading Haruki Murakami without his talent for subtle storytelling. Or -sorry to go overboard on this- it's like reading House of Leaves without all the decoding and, well, the effort. Or -just one more- it's like reading The Illuminatus Trilogy sans the brilliance of Robert Anton Wilson poking fun at his book for a thousand pages. The over-narration is what really did me in. Every emotion is dropped on the page, every clue is highlighted with a flood light, and not a single important piece of information is given to the reader without fanfare. When Scout, his hip and pretty adventure guide shows up, I just couldn't keep reading. It was too much for me. The conceptual shark, I could deal with. The living room turning in the ocean and back, I was into it. But the sudden appearance of a hot, hip twenty-year-old pushed me overboard (ha). When the movie comes out I'll watch it (maybe even in the theaters), it'll be a nice distraction for a few hours. But, the book and I are done. ...more Completely overhyped, of course, like most books draped with gushing quotes of unanimous adoration from THE CRITICS. Nevertheless, Hall's conceptual sharks are clever, baffling and terribly original throughout. His typographical quirks are deployed to interesting and, in one instance, hilariously terrifying effect. The writing suffers from an overuse of dramatic verbs, the stylised relationship between the hero/heroine (regardless of any ironic intentions), moments of prolonged confusion and plot Completely overhyped, of course, like most books draped with gushing quotes of unanimous adoration from THE CRITICS. Nevertheless, Hall's conceptual sharks are clever, baffling and terribly original throughout. His typographical quirks are deployed to interesting and, in one instance, hilariously terrifying effect. The writing suffers from an overuse of dramatic verbs, the stylised relationship between the hero/heroine (regardless of any ironic intentions), moments of prolonged confusion and plot dullness, and melodrama. It shouldn't be made into a blockbuster, as its very essence is a love of language, words and books, not film, images and postmodern movie references. Recommended, but don't expect too much. ...more Hmm. Well. It certainly wasn't bad . One problem with reading advanced reader's editions is that they lay out the marketing plans for you right on the inside cover, so I knew before I even started that this book has a 150,000 initial print run, that the movie rights have already been auctioned, that a website and a viral marketing campaign (puke) are in the works, etc. Soooo, hype hype hype, which always makes me worried. All the same, like everyone says, cross House of Leaves with Memento and Hmm. Well. It certainly wasn't bad . One problem with reading advanced reader's editions is that they lay out the marketing plans for you right on the inside cover, so I knew before I even started that this book has a 150,000 initial print run, that the movie rights have already been auctioned, that a website and a viral marketing campaign (puke) are in the works, etc. Soooo, hype hype hype, which always makes me worried. All the same, like everyone says, cross House of Leaves with Memento and you start to get the idea of The Raw Shark Texts . In the big picture, it's definitely got an original and creative plot, but as far as the details\u2014the writing, the characters, and the development\u2014kind of meh. This is a backhanded compliment, I know, but the best I can say is that it'll make a really good movie. ...more Mix _A Clockwork Orange_, _VALIS_, and _House of Leaves_ in a blender, and you would get something like this book. It combines a number of my favorite things, not the least of which is the unreliable narrator - and as an aside to some reviewers, if you think 'Memento' did it first, you really ought to read more and do some research. I was a little wary of the kind of 'fontplay' such as in Danielewski's book, but when Hall used it, he used it purposefully and to good effect. Note to self: 'fontpla Mix _A Clockwork Orange_, _VALIS_, and _House of Leaves_ in a blender, and you would get something like this book. It combines a number of my favorite things, not the least of which is the unreliable narrator - and as an aside to some reviewers, if you think 'Memento' did it first, you really ought to read more and do some research. I was a little wary of the kind of 'fontplay' such as in Danielewski's book, but when Hall used it, he used it purposefully and to good effect. Note to self: 'fontplay' sounds kinky. I don't think this book is great literature, especially considering the level of (unseen by me) hype involved, but then again, my own interests made me its target demographic, and I'm not complaining. Intriguing, compelling and chewy, that's what this book was to me. ...more Would you look at that, on the inside title page, a yellow post-it note saying The bastard love-child of The Matrix, Jaws and The Da Vinci Code - MARK HADDON Description: Eric Sanderson wakes up in a house one day with no idea who or where he is. A note instructs him to see a Dr. Randle immediately, who informs him that he is undergoing yet another episode of acute memory loss that is a symptom of his severe dissociative disorder. Eric's been in Dr. Randle's care for two years -- since the tragic dea Would you look at that, on the inside title page, a yellow post-it note saying The bastard love-child of The Matrix, Jaws and The Da Vinci Code - MARK HADDON Description: Eric Sanderson wakes up in a house one day with no idea who or where he is. A note instructs him to see a Dr. Randle immediately, who informs him that he is undergoing yet another episode of acute memory loss that is a symptom of his severe dissociative disorder. Eric's been in Dr. Randle's care for two years -- since the tragic death of his great love, Clio, while the two vacationed in the Greek islands. But there may be more to the story, or it may be a different story altogether. As Eric begins to examine letters and papers left in the house by \"the first Eric Sanderson,\" a staggeringly different explanation for what is happening to Eric emerges, and he and the reader embark on a quest to recover the truth and escape the remorseless predatory forces that threatens to devour him. The Raw Shark Texts is a kaleidoscopic novel about the magnitude of love and the devastating effect of losing that love. It will dazzle you, it will move you, and will leave an indelible imprint like nothing you have read in a long time. The animal hunting you is a Ludovician. It is an example of one of the many species of purely conceptual fish which swim in the flows of human interaction and the tides of cause and effect. --from page 64 Tilda Swinton reads one of the most mesmerising passages in The Raw Shark Texts Luxophage Into the un-space beneath Waterstones in Deansgate, Manchester. Dr Trey Fidorus: Hull, Leeds, Sheffield, Manchester, Blackpool Some parts were eyescorching, yet this slipstream novel does not have the staying power once that back cover is shut in the same way that echoing thoughts of House of Leaves lingered deliciously for days ...more I'm in the middle, wanted to like this book a lot... the start was fantastic, an intriguing look at madness and memory but once we got to the meta physical self indulgence and then in my words \"celestine prophecy adventure proving the crazy are really really deep - blah Still reading but blah blah Here's a poem I wrote about this book Lashing out at people who try to justify their craziness as actually mattering to the rest of us. So, you show me the madness, the loss, the lack, the furtive brain c I'm in the middle, wanted to like this book a lot... the start was fantastic, an intriguing look at madness and memory but once we got to the meta physical self indulgence and then in my words \"celestine prophecy adventure proving the crazy are really really deep - blah Still reading but blah blah Here's a poem I wrote about this book Lashing out at people who try to justify their craziness as actually mattering to the rest of us. So, you show me the madness, the loss, the lack, the furtive brain changes I appreciate you opening the curtain in that deep dark place. And then, in utter denial, you start your pretense Your insantity becomes Un Grande Adventure, and worse You claim your mental spasms presage spritual discovery My dear deluded brother, I have been there, am there! I feel the voices, the forces, the body shakes, the doubts, the lack, the loss of structure and I get up. I go to work I feed myself However haltingly, however trapped I know there is no wonder at the end of the Black Rainbow No answer in the mist It's loss, not gain Don't show me the Card Trick, the Crystal Ball underneath the ever moving Cups, don't show me the scraps that might have been some secret answer to the universe if they weren't merely, only and ever a fragmented imagination gestalting its Crazy I hate that Game. Yeah, you are nuts. Live with it. **SPOILERS ** SPOILERS ** SPOILERS Ok, He starts off crazy, turns out his not crazy he is on ...wait for a it... a voyage of discovery to find his dead girlfriend in the mists of ... books... and letters... all the first 1/3 about him losing his memory and then sending himself letters.. wasted... nothing.. thrown away then it's the literary celestine prophecy, the Word Smith's Way of the Peaceful Warrior... and just when we might actually have a chance to like this adventure, we for the final third of the book, follow a step by step retelling the fight from Jaws, yes the movie from 1975...run out of ideas much? For a while I'm dumbfounded and then I realize this is just dumb... the adventure has become a retelling, a truthful retelling of Jaws, as an allegory? No. As a metaphor. No. As an empty plot device to pad out the book so we can find out that his suicide rejoined him with his love of his life in the briny deep? Okee dokee. ...more Holy. Crap. I picked up The Raw Shark Texts this past weekend - not sure if I wanted to tackle something this long since I'm still trying to catch up to a good \"38 in '08\" pace - and I swear it was like disappearing off the face of the earth for two days. I can't remember the last time I was so absorbed in a book that I opted to postpone plans to stay home and do nothing but read, and despite my copy's 448 pages, I devoured the book in less than 24 hours - pun intended. Without giving away more th Holy. Crap. I picked up The Raw Shark Texts this past weekend - not sure if I wanted to tackle something this long since I'm still trying to catch up to a good \"38 in '08\" pace - and I swear it was like disappearing off the face of the earth for two days. I can't remember the last time I was so absorbed in a book that I opted to postpone plans to stay home and do nothing but read, and despite my copy's 448 pages, I devoured the book in less than 24 hours - pun intended. Without giving away more than what you would find in a description on Amazon, or on the back of the book - basically this story is about Eric Sanderson, who gasps awake one day to discover that he remembers nothing - literally nothing - about who he is. In a house that feels familiar yet sits completely devoid of personal information, all he finds is a letter from \"The First Eric Sanderson,\" who \"with regret and also hope\" directs him to a psychologist, Dr. Randle. Randle explains that Eric has a dissociative condition, stemming from the loss of a loved one three years prior, and that for the past several years, Eric has been experiencing episodes that leave him remembering less, and less and less. Yet things may not be as clear as just a mental condition, because soon Eric begins receiving letters and packages from \"The First Eric Sanderson.\" Letters he chooses to ignore until one night he is attacked by something bizarre and nearly inexplicable, something he quickly learns is a Ludovician, a conceptual shark that \"feeds on human memories and the intrinsic sense of self.\" A shark that is stalking him. If that doesn't make your toes curl with intellectual delight, The Raw Shark Texts is probably not for you. But if, like me, you loved The Phantom Tollbooth as a child, step right up because this novel is like one of my favorite children's books adapted for grownups. It's a thriller, a quest and a cleverly nerdy adventure, filled with unspace and metaphysical villains and the lost memories of love. It's basically everything I love in a book, and I'm tempted to pick it up immediately and start reading it again. ...more 3/29/11 update: I want to read it again. I also want Hall to write another book. Come on Steve!! 8/19/09 Update: I found a copy of the UK version of this book in a used book store the other day and it prompted me to re-read it. This book is so brilliant it's unbelievable. Reading it a second time brought out, in my mind anyway, what is really going on with this book. I'm truly amazed at Hall's performance here. ================================================================= i was walking through b 3/29/11 update: I want to read it again. I also want Hall to write another book. Come on Steve!! 8/19/09 Update: I found a copy of the UK version of this book in a used book store the other day and it prompted me to re-read it. This book is so brilliant it's unbelievable. Reading it a second time brought out, in my mind anyway, what is really going on with this book. I'm truly amazed at Hall's performance here. ================================================================= i was walking through barnes and noble, i have no idea what i was doing there HA!, and i saw this book... the title grabbed my attention and i remembered having heard about it at one point or another in connection to danielewski's 'house of leaves'...i picked it up and started reading and haven't stopped... it's not precisely the exhilarating thrill ride the reviews on the cover would have you believe, but it is extremely gripping and interesting...i can see how it would be compared to danielewski as it very much pokes at the fabric of existence to see how it tears... the premise at first seems a little cliche, but the execution is quite original and highly imaginative...(i can't help but think this is the novel danielewski should have written after HOL...i still have no idea what he was trying to do with 'only revolutions'...) this novel deals with a subject that i cannot decide what to do with... i'm compelled to feel that it is a subject universal to everyone, yet i cannot escape the intimacy of the issue and how close it is to me...to the point where i cannot imagine anyone else really being able to relate to this subject in the same way i do... yet here is this book... the subject is that of the void....the gaping cavernous void that you must confront in life at one point or another in a very real way, and also in a very metaphorical way...often it seems ot me this confrontation ends as it did in my case, in a terror induced retreat to whatever safety i could locate... the first introduction i had to this void was in the deep end of my cousin's swimming pool...as a child of 7 or 8, i was treading water over the deep end, perhaps a depth of 8 feet or so...and i was stricken with an acute awareness of the space underneath me...on some irrational level it deeply terrified me, knowing this space was under me and i didn't really know for certain what was lurking down there...i knew and understood the actual depth of the pool, that it ended a mere few feet below my flailing limbs, but this rational information did nothing to quell the mounting fear that assailed me as long as i stayed in the water... there's was something horrifying about this space, this emptiness that somehow wasn't empty... ever since i've had this strange awareness of that void...every so often i'd be reminded soomehow of its existence... this book did more than remind me of it, it exemplified it...it exposes and explores the very void that i thought was peculiar to my personal neurosis... this entire story could be said to involve this strange empty space, but there are two overt moments that i should use to discuss what i mean... the main character eric doesn't care for snorkeling...neither would i...he talks about the occasion when he did go diving and describes the fear he felt when he looked out into the gaping blue bank expanse that represented the open ocean, and how it affected him to the point where he couldn't go back in the water again... this moment is mirrored to stunning effect when later in the story eric falls in the water and the pages of the text go completely blank...sitting in my comfortable loft staring at those relentlessly blank pages brought my fear of the void rocketing right back to the front of my mind... in the story, this void is intrinsically connected with eric's loss of memory and the consequent loss his identity...the void tantalizes him with the very real anxiety that he may not only never recover the absent parts of himself, but he may also lose everything he presently knows a second time... there's more to this than a mere exploration of what identity is, how it functions, and what it means to lose it...i it's about the strength and power that a concept can wield... the void isn't a real, concrete place that i can go to and see for myself...but it's there, i can feel it, and more importantly i can feel its influence...conceptual stuctures have every bit as much power over us as any real world construct.... this book deals with this notion like no other text i've ever come across...in the end, it is a conceptual structure that provides for eric's salvation...but, it was yet another conceptual structure that threatened eric's life to begin with...they can go either way...they have the potency to save or destroy... an incredible book... ...more I read this mainly because it's discussed in N. Katherine Hayles's \"How We Think\" (which I'm greatly enjoying). It probably doesn't deserve four stars--the ending is kind of crappy, and at times it feels a bit self-satisfied, a bit like a Charlie Kaufman movie--but it is a very \"readerly\" book. This is a concept Kerri Pierce shared with me not too long ago. For anyone who reads tons of \"difficult\" or \"heady\" books for their job or career or whatever, you're probably already familiar with this co I read this mainly because it's discussed in N. Katherine Hayles's \"How We Think\" (which I'm greatly enjoying). It probably doesn't deserve four stars--the ending is kind of crappy, and at times it feels a bit self-satisfied, a bit like a Charlie Kaufman movie--but it is a very \"readerly\" book. This is a concept Kerri Pierce shared with me not too long ago. For anyone who reads tons of \"difficult\" or \"heady\" books for their job or career or whatever, you're probably already familiar with this concept. \"Readerly\" books are those books that are fun to read, that are smart without being overly cerebral, that are good, but not stylistically sophisticated, that are a sort of break from the high-minded stuff, but aren't exactly popcorn. So yeah, The Raw Shark Texts is one of those books for me. It's got the high concept of something like Tom McCarthy's Remainder, but the execution is less rigorous. (And the ending is fairly disappointing.) The idea of a conceptual shark relentlessly pursuing a damaged man and destroying his memories is a great set-up, but I have to say that after this idea is laid out, it doesn't really progress that much, which is kind of unfortunate, but is what it is. Anyway, I'd give this a 6.8-7.2 if GoodReads worked on a 10 point scale. Somewhere between 3 and 4 stars . . . And worth reading for the smart entertainment value. ...more Dear Book, You're critically acclaimed and a national best seller. You're apparently the bastard child of all the great writers and movies. You think you're clever. The fact of the matter is, if you weren't a required text for my class, I would have dropped your paperback ass in the recycling bin ages ago. I'm so glad we're done now and I never have to see you again. Sincerely, Sans Writing this review feels bad. I'm sure Steven Hall worked lovingly on his first book. Judging by his chirpy author picture, he looks like a cool guy, and I hope he lives a long happy life and writes many great bestsellers and gets to buy a flying yacht full of hookers. That being said, The Raw Shark Texts is terrible. It feels like a badly mixed porridge of everything the author thought was AWESOME. Let's see \u2013 the movie Jaws ? AWESOME. Memento ? AWESOME. House of Leaves ? AWESOME. Abandoned underg Writing this review feels bad. I'm sure Steven Hall worked lovingly on his first book. Judging by his chirpy author picture, he looks like a cool guy, and I hope he lives a long happy life and writes many great bestsellers and gets to buy a flying yacht full of hookers. That being said, The Raw Shark Texts is terrible. It feels like a badly mixed porridge of everything the author thought was AWESOME. Let's see \u2013 the movie Jaws ? AWESOME. Memento ? AWESOME. House of Leaves ? AWESOME. Abandoned underground places, ancient Japanese secret societies, scattered chapters and subtle mysteries? Oh man, this is going to be the best book ever! Unfortunately, Steven Hall isn't a very good cook. The novel's main premise, that of \"conceptual fish\" that live in the flow of ideas and feed on memories, is ludicrous and completely unjustified. Same with much of the book's mythology. There's a fortress made of stacked books, a banal memoir encrypted with insane algorithms, a make-believe boat magically turned real, a secret underground network of service corridors and parking lots whose relevance to the story is not clear. None of this is ever explained. The protagonist accepts it all without much reflection, and the reader is expected to do the same. I couldn't. It all felt phony and lazy. The characters are little more than archetypes \u2013 there's the amnesiac protagonist, the pretty and clever love interest, the eccentric recluse scientist. This flat troupe is antagonized by two of the dullest villains I've ever seen, a magical shark that appears every now and then to say \"boo\" and a nineteenth-century dude inhabiting many bodies, who could have been an intriguing fellow if only he appeared in the story at all . But nope: he's just mentioned, and his only reason to be in the novel seems to be to provide a motivation for the love interest's actions. It's not very good writing, either. The Raw Shark Texts could have been written by an enthusiastic teenager who read too much young adult fiction, makes as much use of a Thesaurus as is humanly possible, and whose idea of an exciting action scene is a dense paragraph of run-on sentences. As another reviewer said, the book starts out interesting, but soon all of the flaws mentioned above become obvious, the story becomes dull, and yours truly becomes bored. This is nicely reflected in my reading progress graph (not sure if other people can see it), which is roughly logarithmic, meaning my reading speed became slower as I progressed through the book. The plot develops like you would expect any mediocre thriller to, leading to a final segment that's a point-by-point retelling of the climax of Jaws . That's right \u2013 the same deal with the barrels, the shark cage, the sinking boat, the explosion, the nauseatingly corny ending. I don't mean to imply that Hall ripped the movie off; surely the similarity is there for a reason (which I can't be bothered to find out), but, no matter what that is, it's a lazy and uninspired move. And then, of course, there's the epilogue that basically says \"But it was all a dream! ... ... ...OR WAS IT?\" Hey, spot on! That was all this book needed to go from lame to ridiculous. ...more I couldn't resist picking up this book, with a lurking shark made completely out of text on the first page. I'm a big believer of judging books by covers, and once again I am proven right. The Raw Shark Texts is like several books you've read, and yet is completely different. It plays with the concept of words like \"The Phantom Tollbooth,\" and its underground is vaguely similar to that of Gaiman's \"Neverwhere.\" The plot starts out as \"Memento,\" morphs into \"The Matrix\" and ends with \"Jaws.\" Conf I couldn't resist picking up this book, with a lurking shark made completely out of text on the first page. I'm a big believer of judging books by covers, and once again I am proven right. The Raw Shark Texts is like several books you've read, and yet is completely different. It plays with the concept of words like \"The Phantom Tollbooth,\" and its underground is vaguely similar to that of Gaiman's \"Neverwhere.\" The plot starts out as \"Memento,\" morphs into \"The Matrix\" and ends with \"Jaws.\" Confused? Don't worry, it all melds together pretty well (and surprisingly). Eric Sanderson wakes up not knowing who or where he is. Letters from the first Eric Sanderson soon arrive in the mail, attempting to describe his most peculiar situation. Eric is being pursued by a Ludovician, one of the \"conceptual fish\" that swim through the flow of human ideas. This shark, however, is ruthless, and will continue to hunt him until he has no memory or being left. While evading the Ludovician, he's kept busy hunting down obscure scientists through unspace and reconciling his ex-girlfriend (dead) with his guide, who just happen to share many similar traits. Although his style is nothing spectacular, I was continually delighted with the new and unusual ideas that kept popping up consistently from beginning to end. It's a long-ish book, but it held my attention. He has fun with typography and there's even a flipbook (which helps cut down on the pages). If the connection between words, ideas and power intrigues you, you could do worse than The Raw Shark Texts. ...more I'd pair this with Remainder by Tom McCarthy : debut novels from the UK by men taking on conceptual literary frameworks. Their work isn't influenced by film so much as engaged by the medium itself. It's certainly not for everyone. In fact, I hated Remainder for the first few months after reading. But I recognize the book--and by extension this one as well--for what is: an avant-garde novel in the 21st century. This book isn't as finely balanced as it could be, and many of the romantic scenes ar I'd pair this with Remainder by Tom McCarthy : debut novels from the UK by men taking on conceptual literary frameworks. Their work isn't influenced by film so much as engaged by the medium itself. It's certainly not for everyone. In fact, I hated Remainder for the first few months after reading. But I recognize the book--and by extension this one as well--for what is: an avant-garde novel in the 21st century. This book isn't as finely balanced as it could be, and many of the romantic scenes are so cheesy they may as well be broadcast on Lifetime. But a bold experiment persists for over 400 pages: what are all stories but failures to portray anything real? What if, then, you constructed your own elaborate story to deal with personal trauma? Only you don't know you've constructed it, or, maybe you didn't at all, or... well, this is where the genius of the book resides. Also, there's sharks. The idea of conceptual fish I'll leave for you to discover on your own. Let's just say the more you buy into the hokum, the more you're rewarded in the end. It's a brilliant tightrope walk of the unreliable narrator (and unreliable text) on the high end, and your basic thriller plot (with chases! and explosions! and SHARKS!) on the low end. ...more You know how sometimes you read a book and you just know a character is a direct stand-in for the author? Take this book, for example. I simply could not shake the feeling that the narrator--a sadsack, lonely guy pining over the loss of his great and perfect love--is pretty much the absolute alter-ego of the author: I'm picturing a sadsack, lonely guy pining over the fact that no girl has ever really talked to him. And no wonder the narrator misses his \"Clio\" (yes, the muse of history, how painfu You know how sometimes you read a book and you just know a character is a direct stand-in for the author? Take this book, for example. I simply could not shake the feeling that the narrator--a sadsack, lonely guy pining over the loss of his great and perfect love--is pretty much the absolute alter-ego of the author: I'm picturing a sadsack, lonely guy pining over the fact that no girl has ever really talked to him. And no wonder the narrator misses his \"Clio\" (yes, the muse of history, how painfully obvious in this alleged Jaws meets Memento mashup): she's beautiful, sexy, wonton, wry, sly, and--most of all--graciously understanding of her shlubby boyfriend's many failings. She is, in short, exactly like no real woman ever in the history of the world. It will come as no surprise to hear that the character of the cat is eminently more believably drawn and realistic than that of the woman. So if you've ever thought to yourself, Wow, wouldn't it be great if English majors were as cool as shark hunters? this is the book for you. Otherwise, I suggest you skip it. ...more Area woman wildly unimpressed with White Man\u2122 pretentious pseudo-intellectual masturbatory fantasy, complete with the Struggle of being a Man who doesn't know his Place in the world and manic pixie dream conceptual girl. The book opens as Eric Sanderson wakes up on the floor of a bedroom he doesn't recognize. He then finds a letter from \"The First Eric Sanderson\" directing him to Dr. Randle, who tells him that he has recurrent dissociative episodes, or repeated and worsening periods of amnesia. As the story progresses you find out that the amnesia is caused by a conceptual shark. A ludovician. It feeds on a person's memories and, many times, gets a bit territorial. It's hunting Eric Sanderson. For the most part, The book opens as Eric Sanderson wakes up on the floor of a bedroom he doesn't recognize. He then finds a letter from \"The First Eric Sanderson\" directing him to Dr. Randle, who tells him that he has recurrent dissociative episodes, or repeated and worsening periods of amnesia. As the story progresses you find out that the amnesia is caused by a conceptual shark. A ludovician. It feeds on a person's memories and, many times, gets a bit territorial. It's hunting Eric Sanderson. For the most part, this was a pretty well written novel. It's the first novel from this writer so I'll give a little grace. There were a lot of well-written portions, but over all, it was just slightly above average. The character development was a bit lacking. The author mostly depended on a few key visuals for each character. The character of Eric was very well developed. So much so that when he did something out of character, you noticed. Like falling in love with Scout. Quickly. So much of Eric and Scout's relationship was cliched, I wished it wasn't in the book at all. The plot was the only real driving force of the book. It is a very interesting idea for a story. So interesting that it makes you want to see it through to the end. But the end failed to be as interesting. The story mostly falls apart at the end. Casualties are treated casually and the last few pages are so vague, I'd expect them more at the beginning of a book. There was fun typograghy presented through out, though, so that's a bonus. But unconvetional type and the use of pictures and diagrams in a novel are better executed in Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close by Jonathan Safran Foer. It's about a kid who's dad died in 9/11. Read it instead. This one's good, but that one's better. ...more If you enjoy Haruki Murakami, the films of Michel Gondry, or Jorge Luis Borges, you will want to go on this very strange fishing trip with Steven Hall. Before you leave dock, take note of the book's title-pun and be clear that there are plenty of plotlines that will be left up to your interpretation. The story involves recurring amnesia and the creature who causes it, a semiotic monster swimming through an ocean of ideas. Indeed, there is an entire ecology comprised of words, ideas, books and si If you enjoy Haruki Murakami, the films of Michel Gondry, or Jorge Luis Borges, you will want to go on this very strange fishing trip with Steven Hall. Before you leave dock, take note of the book's title-pun and be clear that there are plenty of plotlines that will be left up to your interpretation. The story involves recurring amnesia and the creature who causes it, a semiotic monster swimming through an ocean of ideas. Indeed, there is an entire ecology comprised of words, ideas, books and signs that the amnesiac protagonist navigates, armed only with notes and video from his pre-amnesic self and advice from a psychotherapist who may or may not have his best interests at heart. Along the way, he falls in with stranger company including a young woman called Scout who seems hauntingly familiar. While some novels with Big Ideas get bogged down, Steven Hall moves the plot forward at a fast pace and salts the mystery with a series of intriguing revelations and eccentric uses of text. Despite its size, this is a quick read and most will find it thought-provoking and intellectually diverting. ...more Amintirile Rechinului\u201d de Steven Hall este un roman fantastic construita pe franturi de imagini, si texte cu influente si trimiteri vizibile spre Casablanca, Vrajitorul din Oz, Alice in Tara minunilor, Don Quijote, Toy story, sau Hound of the Baskervilles, in acest caz inteligenta marelui detectiv Sherlock Holmes fiind cam pusa la indoiala. Mark Haddon, romancier si poet britanic a afirmat, dupa cum putem vedea pe coperta intai a romanului de fata, in mod fericit si aproape in ton cu actiunea ca Amintirile Rechinului\u201d de Steven Hall este un roman fantastic construita pe franturi de imagini, si texte cu influente si trimiteri vizibile spre Casablanca, Vrajitorul din Oz, Alice in Tara minunilor, Don Quijote, Toy story, sau Hound of the Baskervilles, in acest caz inteligenta marelui detectiv Sherlock Holmes fiind cam pusa la indoiala. Mark Haddon, romancier si poet britanic a afirmat, dupa cum putem vedea pe coperta intai a romanului de fata, in mod fericit si aproape in ton cu actiunea cartii, ca lucrarea lui Steven Hall constituie o fuziune spectaculoasa intre Matrix, Falci si Codul lui Da Vinci. Intr-adevar \u201cAmintirile Rechinului\u201d este o lucrare ambitioasa ce debuteaza cu o intamplare a la filmul \u201cMemento\u201c, film cel are pe Guy Pearce in rolul principal, insa evolueaza de la paragraf la paragraf intr-o mica bijuterie a thriller-ului si a fictiunii. Au existat momente in care actiunea si ideile enuntate de scriitor au reusit sa ma cucereasca si sa ma faca sa privesc cu alti ochi lumea literelor, problemele lexicale si evolutia limbajului din zilele noastre, aflat intr-o continua schimbare si adaptare. Insa acestea sunt doar o mica parte din aisbergul pe care-l construieste cu migala scritorul in romanul de fata. Desi, sa fiu sincer, in unele situatii datorita complexitatii si limbajului folosit m-am simtit un pic ingreunat de avalansa de termeni si teorii abordate si dezvoltate in opera de fata. Cum spuneam, romanul incepe cu personajul principal, Eric Sanderson, trezindu-se parca dintr-un somn indelungat si descoperind ca sufera de amnezie, fara as mai aminti nicio farama din trecut. Si, totusi, in scurt timp incepe saimmortel primeasca o serie de scrisori si indicii de la vechea sa persoana, cu ajutorul carora incepe sa reconstruiasca pas cu pas trecutul sau misterios. Deseori actiunea se incruciseaza cu flashbackuri din viata personala, evenimente descoperite de el in scrisori sau pe care si le mai aduce aminte in diverse momente. Ca peisajul sa fie si mai colorat descoperim ca Eric este vanat insistent de o fiinta supranaturala batrana, vicleana si foarte greu de invins . Fiinta ce mi-a adus aminte, la nivel vizual, de un alt pradator din filmul Immortel (ad vitam) din 2004, regizat tocmai de creatorul benzii desenate dupa care a si fost ecranizat, marele artist francez, Enki Bilal. Tocmai la intrebarile ce se ridica din aceste randuri, \u201cde ce si-a pierdut memoria\u201d, \u201ccine si de ce-l urmareste\u201d, \u201cce a descoperit\u201d sau \u201cce a dus la indeplinire in trecut\u201d de a fost asa de zdruncinat, plus multe altele, incearca sa raspunda si eroul nostru, aflat intr-o continua cursa pentru aflarea adevarului. Astfel pe parcursul lecturii ne vom lovi de termeni ca \u201cne-spatiul\u201d, \u201ccomitetul de explorare a ne-spatiului\u201d, \u201cstructuri textuale\u201d, \u201cfluxuri conceptuale\u201d, \u201coceanolog criptoconceptual\u201d, \u201cludovician\u201d etc. ce ne vor introduce intr-o lumea asemanatoare ca bogatie a peisajelor si imaginatie cu cea din \u201cVrajitorul din Oz\u201d sau \u201cAlice in Tara minunilor\u201c, insa mult mai letala si mai insolita de aceasta data. Inca de la inceputul lecturii insusi autorul ne pune in garda ca textul este ca o fiinta vie, antrenand in acelasi timp cititorul intr-o cursa nebuna de descoperire a cator mai multe detalii ascunse si bine conservate, ce invaluiesc in mister aceasta declaratie. Avem parte de conspiratii si adunari secrete ce evoleaza in decursul anilor la o organizare globala, unele urmarind sa-si impuna suprematia asupra lumii. Ce, va asteptati la altceva?! Iar in ceea ce priveste personajele acestea sunt pur si simplu adorabile si cu priza la cititor. Eric este insotit mai tot timpul de-a lungul peregrinarilor sale de motanul sau Ian, carismatic si mereu plictisit de ceea ce se intampla in jurul sau, personaj ce impreuna cu dialogul savuros constituie o parte din sarea si piperul povestirii. Citate preferate : \"Un om traieste atat de multe perioade diferite de timp. Si fiecare are propriul sfarsit (pag. 102)\" Si continuarea de la pagina 117 : \"Un om traieste atat de multe perioade diferite de timp. Un om este atat de multe perioade diferite de timp.\" Din loc in loc in text ne lovim de adevarate enigme protejate de coduri alaturi de situatii cu inteles ascuns, romanul beneficiind si de o serie de pagini intr-o constructie absolut inedita si surprinzatoare. Dupa cum va spuneam textul ascunde mai mult decat pare la o prima vedere si acest lucru mi-a fost intarit si de \u201cWikipedia\u201d de unde am putut afla ca pe internet circula o serie de negative sau \u201cun-chapters\u201d, o alternativa la cele 36 de capitole ale cartii . Aceste sunt ascunse fie online, fie in lumea reala, fiind elaborate de catre autorul insusi. De fapt acesta a si declarat pe forumul \u201cRaw Shark Texts\u201d ca cel putin o patrime din capitolele ascunse sunt deja in libertate, aceasta initiativa fiind de fapt un proiect aflat inca in curs de derulare. Tot el a declarat ca negativele nu sunt scene eliminate din manuscrisul romanului, ci fac, pur si simplu, parte din el. Pentru cei mai curiosi detalii se pot afla si de pe forumul dedicat romanului. Desi finalul te pune un pic pe ginduri, iar ultimele pagini nu mai au aceeasi nota de necunoscut si inedit ca pina atunci, totusi cred ca este o carte ce merita din plin sa fie parcursa de orice fan de fantastic, dar nu numai. Cartea in format hardcover arata perfect iar textul este aproape imaculat ca si corectitudine a limbajului gramatical. Romanul a castigat \u201cBorders Original Voices Award\u201d ( 2007) si \u201cSomerset Maugham Award\u201d (2008) si a fost prezent si pe lista scurta a nominalizarilor la \u201cArthur C. Clarke Award\u201d (2008). http://www.cititorsf.ro/2009/04/02/am... ...more Trying to write a thoughtful review and one that is useful to other users for The Raw Shark Texts is difficult as it doesn't lend itself to such a task. An equal problem I encounter are my own feelings. In truth, for me this was frequently not a book to be easily enjoyed and it is tempting to slip into a 'what-I-would-have-liked-this-book-to-be' style of reviewing. But against these difficulties I found this book to be captivating. Sure I had to put it down and leave it at times and on other occa Trying to write a thoughtful review and one that is useful to other users for The Raw Shark Texts is difficult as it doesn't lend itself to such a task. An equal problem I encounter are my own feelings. In truth, for me this was frequently not a book to be easily enjoyed and it is tempting to slip into a 'what-I-would-have-liked-this-book-to-be' style of reviewing. But against these difficulties I found this book to be captivating. Sure I had to put it down and leave it at times and on other occasions it felt like I was slogging through sections but in the end I was compelled to finish it nonetheless. For me at least, now finished, it felt worth the trouble. (view spoiler) [The narrative is what by and large wins me over. It is the stories and to a lesser extent the characters who kept me plodding on. When I say stories, I mean stories. Looking back now that I have completed the novel it feels like The Raw Shark Texts is a hashing together of a few different potential novels. A romance, a tragedy of love lost, the suspense of lost identity, a sci-fi horror, a story of a fantastic beast (or shark in this case) and a strange and adventurous journey. Sure, a narrative can have all these elements but my problem with their presence in The Raw Shark Texts is they don't sell as a unified narrative but instead a stitching together of discrete narratives. A good idea alone does not a good novel make and piling in a few more for good measure only serves to exacerbate the problem. Even with this criticism though it was these unfolding narratives that kept me engaged. I kept reading in anticipation of more of one or another narrative being revealed or followed up on. Perhaps I continued where a less hopeful or optimistic reader would have left off. The characters also kept me in engaged for similar reasons. I continued to read in anticipation of finding out more about the original Eric Sanderson, the deceased Cilo Aames and to a lesser extend Scout. The story of Eric and Cilo which largely motivated the narrative of The Raw Shark Texts was one I kept waiting to be revealed further. Though by the end, really all I cared about was the survival of Ian the cat. One major difficulty I have is that it reads for the most part as a treatment for a potential Hollywood blockbuster This despite some truly stellar writing in the first part of the book. It is clear Hall has the capacity to be a great writer but by and large it doesn't feel as though he is bringing his complete ability to this novel. I also felt let down by the gimmicky nature of The Raw Shark Texts . The clear one is the appearance of the shark in text with in the novel. In regard to that I am ambivalent, so that's not my issue. The apparent existence of extant material or missing chapters is however unspeakably frustrating. While I enjoy a slow reveal and mystery their discrete existence outside the text is problematic as it is a clear barrier to being able to genuinely appreciate and comprehend the text. When I sit down to read a book I do not expect it is necessary to join the cult behind it to gain access to the full text. The cynical part of me feels like it is a marketing ploy and just an excuse to release The no-long-RAW-but-COMPLETE Shark Texts further down the line. (hide spoiler) ] For those willing to read for the sake of experiencing something different and risk being left unsatisfied and disappointed this is a book for you. The Raw Shark Texts is an adventure about reality and knowledge, and as such, appeals to those who are adventurous in their literary taste. Hall attempted to created something a bit new and different for a novel, and to that end he succeeded. For me though, he didn't quite pull it off with the finesse necessary for it to work. But I can't fault him for the attempt. It is certainly going to be a work I will be taking about for sometime and cautiously recommending. The Raw Shark Texts is a curious literary beast, captivating in its curiousness but ultimately lacking a genuine uniqueness or strength to hold attention beyond its appeal as a curio. ...more (Full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:].) Throughout history (or at least as far back as Gulliver's Travels ), books that attempt to combine fantastical elements with the high-minded \"literature\" label have had a rough go at it, with most never truly ending up being one or the other; to cite just one example, William Burroughs' Naked Lunch can be described simultaneously as an autobiography, a cautionary tale about drugs, and a science-fi (Full review can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com:].) Throughout history (or at least as far back as Gulliver's Travels ), books that attempt to combine fantastical elements with the high-minded \"literature\" label have had a rough go at it, with most never truly ending up being one or the other; to cite just one example, William Burroughs' Naked Lunch can be described simultaneously as an autobiography, a cautionary tale about drugs, and a science-fiction story, with none of the descriptions being exactly correct. So how then to approach a novel like Steven Hall's The Raw Shark Texts , being hailed these days by the publishing hype machine as The Next Big Thing In Contemporary Fiction? On the one hand it is very much a fantastical tale, no more \"real\" than the Star Wars trilogy or any other sci-fi project; and in this respect the book succeeds wildly, or at least in the parts dedicated to this aspect. But on the other hand, it's also a traditional love story, as well as a quiet meditation on memory and the limits of free will; and in this respect the book is an utter failure, as hackneyed and clumsy as a tearful poem from a high-school goth. But then again, it could also be seen as a Hollywood-friendly action-adventure tale, in which case the book is very typical of such things; a weak beginning, a great middle, an ending that could use some punching up by a script doctor, but certainly nothing that can't be fixed by the time production starts. So maybe it's best to start with this, then -- that much like Mark Danielewski's House of Leaves or D.B. Weiss' Lucky Wander Boy , The Raw Shark Texts is firmly one of those \"genre unto itself\" novels, and perhaps no traditional review of it can do it full justice. Ultimately it's the story of one Eric Sanderson...or should I say the \"second Eric Sanderson,\" for as the reader learns at the beginning of the book, this Sanderson not only has amnesia but is also receiving mysterious packages in the mail each day, apparently from himself before the amnesia and each signed \"The First Eric Sanderson.\" The notes begin by giving Sanderson the concrete details needed to restart his life (\"Call this phone number, tell the woman who answers that your name is Eric, and that it's happened again\"); why yes, in fact, almost exactly like the superior Memento , one of many problems The Raw Shark Texts has concerning literary derivation (but more on this in a bit). As the months progress, then... ...more \u041d\u0435 \u0441\u0440\u0430\u0437\u0443 \u0440\u0430\u0437\u0433\u043e\u043d\u044f\u044e\u0449\u0438\u0439\u0441\u044f \u0438 \u0441\u0442\u0440\u0430\u043d\u043d\u043e \u0437\u0430\u043a\u0430\u043d\u0447\u0438\u0432\u0430\u044e\u0449\u0438\u0439\u0441\u044f, \u043d\u043e \u0432 \u0441\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0435 \u043d\u0435\u0440\u0435\u0434\u043a\u043e \u0438 \u0441\u0438\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e \u0440\u0430\u0434\u0443\u044e\u0449\u0438\u0439 \u0440\u043e\u043c\u0430\u043d \u043f\u0440\u043e \u0447\u0435\u043b\u043e\u0432\u0435\u043a\u0430, \u043a\u043e\u0442\u043e\u0440\u044b\u0439 \u0434\u0443\u043c\u0430\u043b, \u0447\u0442\u043e \u043f\u043e\u0442\u0435\u0440\u044f\u043b \u043f\u0430\u043c\u044f\u0442\u044c, \u0430 \u044d\u0442\u043e \u0437\u0430 \u043d\u0438\u043c \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0441\u0442\u043e \u0433\u043e\u043d\u044f\u043b\u0430\u0441\u044c \u043a\u043e\u043d\u0446\u0435\u043f\u0442\u0443\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u0430\u044f \u0430\u043a\u0443\u043b\u0430. \u0412 \u043b\u0443\u0447\u0448\u0438\u0435 \u043c\u043e\u043c\u0435\u043d\u0442\u044b \u043f\u043e\u0445\u043e\u0436 \u043d\u0430 \u0441\u043c\u0435\u0441\u044c \u041c\u0443\u0440\u0430\u043a\u0430\u043c\u0438 \u0441 \u0425\u0435\u043c\u0438\u043d\u0433\u0443\u044d\u0435\u043c, \u0432 \u0445\u0443\u0434\u0448\u0438\u0435 \u2014 \u043d\u0430 \u041f\u0435\u043b\u0435\u0432\u0438\u043d\u0430 \u0441 \u0441\u0435\u0440\u044c\u0451\u0437\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u043c\u0438\u043d\u043e\u0439. \u0410 \u0435\u0449\u0451 \u0442\u0430\u043c \u0435\u0441\u0442\u044c \u043a\u043e\u0442\u0438\u043a \u0432 \u043c\u0430\u043b\u0435\u043d\u044c\u043a\u043e\u0439 \u043a\u043e\u0448\u0430\u0447\u044c\u0435\u0439 \u043a\u043e\u043d\u0446\u0435\u043f\u0442\u0443\u0430\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0448\u043b\u044e\u043f\u043a\u0435.<---C>Steven Hall</---C>", "Title": "The Raw Shark Texts"},
