{"Comments": "I was watching the BBC's 'Muslim Beauty Pageant and Me' hosted by and starring Dina Torkia,<---M> an English Muslim who wears hijab</---M>, not the black stuff but pretty fabrics. I thought this is going to be good.<---F> Balance</---F>. I'm going to see that <---A>Ayaan Hirsi Ali</---A> is feverishly hysterical and that what she says might apply to the immigrants from Africa and even more so from Arabia, but not to British Muslims. The girls, who all wore hijab and a lot of makeup looked very pretty. They had to undergo physicals and I was watching the BBC's 'Muslim Beauty Pageant and Me' hosted by and starring Dina Torkia, an English Muslim who wears hijab, not the black stuff but pretty fabrics. I thought this is going to be good. Balance. I'm going to see that Ayaan Hirsi Ali is feverishly hysterical and that what she says might apply to the immigrants from Africa and even more so from Arabia, but not to British Muslims. The girls, who all wore hijab and a lot of makeup looked very pretty. They had to undergo physicals and psychological testing to make sure they would be the best representative of Miss Muslimah and a shining example to Muslim women all over the world. Our girl thought the psychological testing was a bit much with one of the questions being 'would you rather spend time with friends or have sex'? LOL. The girls liked singing. Dina said that she had been taught that singing, like her body and her hair, were part of her attributes that should be hidden from men and she was really surprised it was acceptable. I was surprised that her language 'Oh my God shit' (<---B>and her husband's 'what the fucking hell'</---B>) was considered acceptable from one so religious but perhaps that is me imposing my ideas on one of another faith. But all this 21st century modernity went pear-shaped and proved Ayaan right in the end. They went to a village and Dina had to stay the night in a house where there was also an old man. She felt she couldn't do this without a chaperone, her husband, so she phoned him in England and he said NO. So she couldn't. And as she said she couldn't do anything that her husband didn't want, that wouldn't be Islamic. She was submissive to him in every way. Most of the girls were from Indonesia, but Miss Tunisia, who was in every way quite ordinary, was named the winner in a contest that looked totally fixed to Dina and to me. She immediately spoke in Arabic on Palestine, Gaza, Iraq, Syria. (view spoiler) [And here is me silently saying, Palestine was subdivided, 30% into Israel and 70% into Jordan. Why aren't you asking for the Jordanian majority of the land back? It wouldn't be because they are Muslims and it isn't Israel you hate as much as Jews and the West? (hide spoiler) ] The organiser of the contest who had continually said that all the tests of amusing orphans, visiting a Christian OAP home, psychological tests and the rest were so that the right person would be chosen was terribly pleased with Miss Tunisia and her speech. Yet another opportunity for propagandising hatred. Our girl, back in England let loose a lot of bad language and sounded, just as she thought she was, terribly English. But she wasn't really, she was one of the women who Ayaan Hirsi Ali seeks to liberate. But she will never see that herself. She is proud of her submission and rejoices in the freedom of the UK. But if her husband didn't allow her that much freedom she would be in exactly the same position as the women from Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Kenya and ... Holland. Ayaan is right. Faith schools have to go, all faith schools. That would help. All schooling should be for boys and girls equally and should promote our values of freedom. Religion can be taught outside of school. That is part of our freedom. One of the things Ayaan did was to get the Dutch government to count up the number of honour killings (ie. fathers, brothers, uncles and husbands murdering their female kin) in just two out of twenty-five districts. There were 11 murders. That equates to 165 girls a year killed for stepping out of line by having boyfriends, being rape victims and other 'crimes' against the male idea of honour. Much respect to Ayaan Hirsi Ali. Despite living under death threats for speaking the truth about the position of women. And of speaking the truth that terrorism of the West is not just some small bunch of fundamentalists but is absolutely justified by the Koran, supported by enormous numbers of Muslims worldwide and bankrolled by Islamic countries. Don't be fooled she says by political correctness, don't be thinking that tolerance is such a great virtue, act on what you know to stop this eroding of our Western values. Help the women and children immigrants to integrate and assimilate by showing them they don't have to be frightened of eternal hell if they don't show complete submission to men. She says that a re-interpretation of the Koran should be allowed in this modern era, rather than Saudi Arabia being look to as living by the purest interpretation of Islam. She can't see it happening though. I'm more optimistic. I know quite a few Arab Muslims. I count them as friends. At least they will stop and chat for half an hour at a time. All except a few are quite modern - the wives wear shorts and sandals and come to my shop. There are only a few black-robed women on the island and from only a few of them have I experienced unmistakeable anti-semitism. I think most of the ones I count as friends would very much be in favour of an interpretation that allowed them to keep their faith in a way congruent with the 21st century's idea of freedom. We will see. I so respect Ayaan Hirsi Ali. 5 golden, gleaming, diamond stars for this author, her work and her book. 5. (view spoiler) [What Ayaan says is politically incorrect. The biggest sin in the West is causing offence so we can't say it, but we can listen to one who grew up in the culture in Somalia, Kenya and Saudi Arabia. She says the Dutch allow all religions to have their own schools which further the aims of their religions. But that doing so for Islam encourages and furthers a culture where their holy book says women can be beaten by their husbands if they are mischievous. That says it all about women's position doesn't it? And about the lack of integration into the host country. Is it right to say that religious law takes precedence over civil and criminal law? Is it right to deny women and children their rights because their religion does? \"The Dutch allowed the Immigrants to live as they wished, to keep their own culture. But that culture meant depriving women and girls of their rights. Girls were cut (circumcised) on kitchen tables. Girls who chose their own boyfriends were beaten half to death or murdered. Women who were raped were afraid of being shunned in their community as they were no longer pure.\" Women would always go back to the men who beat them, even after the police had been involved, because they said that in the Koran it is said a man could beat his wife if she stepped out of line and so they must go back and be better wives. This hurts my heart. (hide spoiler) ] 4. (view spoiler) [I am finding this very painful to read. Here is Ayaan being told all the things that please Allah and being told at the same time that there would be no peace for Muslims until all the Jews were destroyed. You know I feel that the whole Palestinian issue is one of anti-semitism through and through and it has people who sympathise with that and people who are ignorant of the facts. 1. Palestine was never an independent nation. It was part of the Ottoman (Turkish) empire until after WWI when the allies carved up the Middle East and created countries such as Iraq and Transjordania. 2. After WWII when Palestine was partitioned 70% went to the country of Transjordania, now renamed Jordan. 3. 30% became Israel. 4. Palestinians and their sympathisers do not demonstrate and make war against the Jordanians for the return of the 70% of what was Palestine. Jordan is not particularly friendly to Palestinians . 5. If this was truly a war against Israel as occupiers of the lands, then why not of Jordanians? Answer because Israel is Jewish and Jordan is Muslim. As was the Turkish empire. btw I am in favour of a two-nation state. I am by no means anti-Palestinian or anti-Muslim people. People are people whatever their religion or politics. And disagreeing with someone doesn't mean I will dislike or disrespect them. We do it all the time on Goodreads. I'm getting worried about what I am hearing about the religion though. It is making me think we blame Fundamentalism all the time as though that was a very small group of people but what I am hearing in this book is making me think it is a great deal more widespread than that. You don't have to be violent to agree with those that are. You don't have to make jihadi speeches to speak at home quietly but with venom and hatred. This book is just emphasising to me the hatred of Jews that seems to be deeply part of Islam at least in Africa and the Middle East and not so much a political attitude but a religious one. I have friends who are Muslims so either they were not brought up in a religious way (likely) or they have come to their own conclusions and they are mostly from Lebanon and which I think is more sophisticated. But I can understand Jihad more easily after reading this. (hide spoiler) ] 3. (view spoiler) [Ayaan describes the Saudis deep-seated anti-semitism and racism, calling her a black slave. Her mother must have suffered from that too. But the mother hates Christians in both Ethiopia and then Kenya where they eventually move to. Christians, the mother thinks are dirty, despicable, stink and will infect them with \"hideous diseases\" and calls them... slaves. \"For the ten years we were in Kenya, my mother and grandmother treated the Kenyans almost exactly as the Saudis had treated us.\" (hide spoiler) ] 2. (view spoiler) [Here is a link to a doctor practising female genital mutilation in Saudi Arabia, sometimes at the behest of the religious police who are kinder and gentler than previously. Circumcision being better than stoning to death. I have to agree. The doctor has devised a new cut called the 'harem cut' designed to stop sexual pleasure for women and to enhance it for their masters, as he calls their husbands and owners. Be warned. This doctor goes into extreme detail of how he circumcises women. I couldn't read all of it. I didn't want to believe it. I wanted to think it was a weird fantasy, maybe it is, but it had too much surgical detail. Here is another link to the keeping of Blacks as very much second class citizens and perhaps as slaves still. I'm not sure how much of the site I believe, but even if it is 10%, it's a bloody evil place. Let's not forget their anti-semitic textbooks they export, the punishing of rape victims and the bankrolling of Bin Laden in our rush to say 'it's their culture (and we want their oil)' Saudi Arabia is continually referred to as God's own country where Ayaan's mother has brought them to be pure, to be Muslim. They are pure and the Jews are the djinns, devils. Everything bad was the fault of the Jews. Even the air conditioner breaking down was the fault of the Jews. Children were taught to pray for the health of their parents and the destruction of the Jews. In school the teachers taught them at length all the evil things the Jews had done and planned to do against the Muslims. Women used to say of others, \"she's ugly, she's disobedient, she's a whore, she's sleeping with a Jew\". If I didn't have only friends commenting enabled now, I would have trolls saying I was biased against Muslims because I am a Jew. Well my family is also Black. And Christian. And I am a woman. (hide spoiler) ] 1. (view spoiler) [I'm on the second chapter. Her beloved mother is upset that Ayaan's brother has pushed her down the latrine so she curses him, \"you snake, you Jew, you communist\". Nice. I was listening to this in a queue at the local phone company. I asked Ali, who is Lebanese, the sales manager and a friend if all Muslims curse like this. He laughed and he said yeah, but not to take it personally. That Muslims were generally brought up to despise Jews above all others, but Christians too. He was brought up Muslim but now is anti religion in the extreme seeing it just as a political power trip to control people. I've seen Saudi Arabian text books for schools in London where the anti-semitism is extreme, Hitler would be proud of them (but then he was in WWII). But then I have had good friends who were Muslim. I shared a flat in London for a year with two guys, Egyptian and Libyan. My best mate in college was an Egyptian woman. Still it was unpleasant to hear Jew used as a curse word. (hide spoiler) ] ...more MARCH 25, 2015 Immensely disliked this book and tired of all the comments so I took down my review. Moving on! \"<+++>Infidel</+++>\" is the personal story of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali woman who, after a loveless childhood (to put it very mildly), came to Holland at the age of 20 claiming refugee status to escape an arranged and forced marriage, and to assert her independence. She was accepted, found her way around, studied political science, became a citizen, fell away from Islam, and became a member of Parliament. In 2004 she and Theo van Gogh made the short film \"Submission Part 1\", which resulted in Theo's gettin \"<+++>Infidel</+++>\" is the personal story of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali woman who, after a loveless childhood (to put it very mildly), came to Holland at the age of 20 claiming refugee status to escape an arranged and forced marriage, and to assert her independence. She was accepted, found her way around, studied political science, became a citizen, fell away from Islam, and became a member of Parliament. In 2004 she and Theo van Gogh made the short film \"Submission Part 1\", which resulted in Theo's getting killed and Holland's being thrown into near chaos. For her security, she was hidden for two months and a half. A bit more than a year later, when the book was almost finished, her citizenship was revoked but later reinstalled, she resigned from Parliament, and left for the US to work at the American Enterprise Institute. Surely stuff for a book, but that's not even the main story. The main story is the oppression of Muslim women, back where Hirsi Ali grew up but also in Holland, where African Muslim immigrants often seem to live the way they used to \u2013 outside Western society and in disregard of Western values. The descriptions are stark. Husbands who are almost universally evil, mean, and violent. They are completely unaware of the fact that their wife is a person, an individual, a partner. A man would be a good husband if he doesn't beat his wife, this is what the author's girlfriends hoped for growing up. A sad world where a decent man is a precious commodity. Where Hirsi Ali grew up, violence was everywhere, in the streets but also in the home. The unifying theme of her childhood was brainless brutality, one group against another, and men against women. People are organized in clans, and diversions and differences between them are the defining principles of identity. Violence, utterly pointless and to no one's benefit, is always present. In the smaller scheme of things, I was born on the wrong side of the fence. But I have not suffered much hardship from it, and the fence came down when I was only 14, opening a world of opportunity. In the larger scheme of things, thankfully, I was born safely on the right side of the fence. The fence that separates Africa from the rest of the world, and madness from reason, poverty from wealth, life from death. This is what the book doesn't tire of pointing out. Sadly, the fence isn't coming down and opportunity will continue to elude most Africans. For all the horrors of Hirsi Ali's childhood, of civil war, of fleeing violence and the most wretched conditions, the most shocking paragraphs of the book describe the author's and her sister's genital mutilation, a process whose enormity the more neutral terms excision and infibulation are utterly inadequate to describe. The author has suffered a violation so atrocious, brutal, and painful, painful even to read, that it is almost beyond my imagination. I am strangely thankful for the graphic description because up to now I no clear idea what the procedure entailed. But more so I am speechless that anyone would consider this wise or necessary. It surely takes a sick, brain-washed mind empty of independent thought and a heart empty of compassion and tenderness to advocate or perform such an operation. The first two thirds of the book are all personal account and analysis, but the last third calls for action. It is a long, angry rant against the excesses of literally read Islam. It is about liberating women, encouraging them not to submit, imploring them to stand up against inequities and for their freedom. Hirsi Ali is passionately outraged, and it is a pleasure to read. She has a reason for her anger and fights for a cause. She wants to abolish sharia and set Muslims women free. ...more Any woman born as a Muslim who has the courage to write a book openly critical of Islam has my respect. A woman who has the brass to title that same book Infidel has my rapt attention. Infidel by Ayann Hasli Ali is shocking, brutally honest, and captivating. This woman\u2019s courage and resilience are a testimony to the human spirit. The letters and phone calls between her and her father are painfully real and troubling, especially when read in the context of the harshness and violence of the cultur Any woman born as a Muslim who has the courage to write a book openly critical of Islam has my respect. A woman who has the brass to title that same book Infidel has my rapt attention. Infidel by Ayann Hasli Ali is shocking, brutally honest, and captivating. This woman\u2019s courage and resilience are a testimony to the human spirit. The letters and phone calls between her and her father are painfully real and troubling, especially when read in the context of the harshness and violence of the culture from which she came. Most endearing, though, is her indefatigable sense of hope and optimism, despite all that she had seen and been through. She is not blindly accepting of western culture, she calls it like she sees it, the good, the bad, and the ugly, but she draws a stark and real portrait of the contrast between two worlds. Also important to read was her observations and perspectives of the 9/11 attacks. At the time, Ayann was a political refugee in Holland. These attacks and the world\u2019s responses thereafter led her on a spiritual journey of questioning her faith, questions and doubts that had been brewing for some time. When I was in Iraq back in 2005 (roughly the same time this book was coming out), I met a man named Omar, he was a Kurd, who spoke English and we struck up a conversation. It turned out that we were the same age. I was dumbfounded by the great disparity in our childhoods. While I had enjoyed a pleasant and non-eventful youth in the suburbs of America, Omar had been beaten, shot, and his family had been kicked out of their home. As we talked, I could not help looking at Omar\u2019s right arm. He was lucky to still have it; there was a horrific deformity in the forearm, the result of a gunshot wound. Omar explained that he had been taken to the nearest hospital and given rudimentary first aid and sent miles away \u2026 to a Kurdish hospital. The first hospital had been only for Arabs. I could not believe that while I was riding around with my friends and having fun, Omar was experiencing a much harder life. Ayann is my age too, and her childhood was very similar to Omar\u2019s. Growing up in Somalia, Saudi Arabia, and across eastern Africa, Ayann described seeing beatings, punitive amputations and beheadings, and depicted receiving violent beatings and mutilation at the hands of her own family. Her escape to Holland and her emancipation from the darkness of her past is a great story. Her continued fight for civil and human rights and her ongoing struggles and life threatening difficulties are inspiring. ...more I feel like my imagination isn't big enough to even begin to comprehend what life is like growing up in Somalia, Kenya, and Saudi Arabia - as a female Muslim with an absent father and an abusive mother. Even though Ayaan does a good job covering her youth and describing her life to those who have no frame of reference for that kind of life, it still is hard to imagine. It goes without saying that those of us born and raised in the United States have been so amply blessed; its almost beyond compr I feel like my imagination isn't big enough to even begin to comprehend what life is like growing up in Somalia, Kenya, and Saudi Arabia - as a female Muslim with an absent father and an abusive mother. Even though Ayaan does a good job covering her youth and describing her life to those who have no frame of reference for that kind of life, it still is hard to imagine. It goes without saying that those of us born and raised in the United States have been so amply blessed; its almost beyond comprehension. So, the most interesting part of the book, in addition to getting an insider's view and perspective on Islam, is when Ayaan makes a run for it and becomes a refugee in Holland. This happens about two-thirds through the book, so by the time she makes her escape, I was almost numb to the brutality of her existenance as a female Muslim. Watching her discover democracy and a country where people don't routinly kill one another is most amazing. It gave me a fresh perspective on our way of life, and how great it truly is, despite its faults. Ayaan, after realizing that this non-Muslim country was a great place, even though her up-bringing told her that all non-Muslim places would be awful, she begins some serious soul-searching about her faith. Again, very interesting to watch her question and reason with her faith and the Western lifestyle. I won't give away the ending, but she concludes with a controversial thought: why is abuse and intolerance allowed to be masked in the name of religion? If you don't know who Ayaan is, she made a short film with Theo Van Gough about the submission of women in Islam. Theo was shot and stabbed to death in broad daylight, in front of 50 witnesses. His throat was slit, and a letter was stabbed to his chest. The letter was addressed to Ayaan. The murderer was Muslim and says he killed Theo because he spoke out negatively about Islam. ...more Last week, I heard a colleague ranting about Islam and women's rights. He was reading this book and espousing Hirsi Ali's views. The next day, I lent him my copy of the Quran so that he'd have some background on the basic text of the religion he was trashing. I tend to find that all of the major religious tomes are ridiculous, hopelessly outdated, and that it's not a flaw in religion but a fault of those interpreting fundamental texts in fundamentalist ways when religion becomes less a spiritual Last week, I heard a colleague ranting about Islam and women's rights. He was reading this book and espousing Hirsi Ali's views. The next day, I lent him my copy of the Quran so that he'd have some background on the basic text of the religion he was trashing. I tend to find that all of the major religious tomes are ridiculous, hopelessly outdated, and that it's not a flaw in religion but a fault of those interpreting fundamental texts in fundamentalist ways when religion becomes less a spiritual undertaking of peace and worthy living and more a set of doctrines used against those who disagree and/or were raised differently. For the record, I think religion is a load of garbage, but I recognize its many compelling characteristics, the difficulty of coolly analyzing the components of one's upbringing, and the charisma of leaders who believe strongly in something. In any case, the day after my friend grumblingly accepted my Quran, saying he was just sick of the whole thing, he handed me this book. Anyone on this site can see that I have a lot to read, and my list is carefully weeded. Having already read _Desert Flower_ some years ago, I was actually slightly annoyed to be put in the position of either a) reading 350 pages, probably a rehash, that I didn't have time for or b) not reading it and therefore admitting, in essence, that I am one of those people who likes to tell others what to read but feels insulted by the impertinence of anyone who might suggest I look into something I've not already considered reading and determined unworthy of my precious (and currently very limited) reading time. So the five stars I've given the book, along with the fact that I read it in less than 24 hours, probably obviate the need for me to continue with what I am saying, so I will stop here. I don't know that I agree with all of Hirsi Ali's actions or arguments. That's not the point, for me. I applaud her courage and her articulate, thoughtful, hard-headed nature. ...more If I ever decide to make a list of the most important books I\u2019ve read \u201cInfidel\u201d by Ayaan Hirsi Ali would surely find its place on it. First time I\u2019ve heard about Miss Hirsi Ali it was after murder of Theo Van Gogh because of his film \u201cSubmission-part one\u201d which he made in collaboration with Hirsi Ali. Theo has been shoot and slaughtered in the middle of the day and the letter for Hirsi Ali (in which assassin is promising the same to her) was staked with knife in Theo\u2019s chest. It was really a huge If I ever decide to make a list of the most important books I\u2019ve read \u201cInfidel\u201d by Ayaan Hirsi Ali would surely find its place on it. First time I\u2019ve heard about Miss Hirsi Ali it was after murder of Theo Van Gogh because of his film \u201cSubmission-part one\u201d which he made in collaboration with Hirsi Ali. Theo has been shoot and slaughtered in the middle of the day and the letter for Hirsi Ali (in which assassin is promising the same to her) was staked with knife in Theo\u2019s chest. It was really a huge shock with big impact across the Europe. Later \u201cSubmission-part one\u201d was in the program of the Free Zone Film Festival here in Belgrade and among the guests was Belgrade\u2019s Imam and the conversation after projection was very interesting. Sadly I would have much more and much better question now after reading this book. Anyhow Infidel was one of the most wanted books on my wish list and you can\u2019t imagine my thrill-ness when I saw in Belgrade\u2019s bookstores that it has been translated in Serbian. I\u2019ve read book in one swallow and then reread it slowly but it raised the same emotional reaction. It starts with the life of her grandmother and later mother in Somalia with such a vivid description of very strict life in Muslim community. Her grandmother was an incredibly strong woman capable to accept the destiny and justify it as an Allah\u2019s wish. You might think that her actions might be quite brutal with her granddaughters (and also comparing with the treatment with her grandson) but she was following tradition and was believe that she\u2019s doing right. There in first part we are introduced how important is to know who your ancestors are. It is actually fundamental to be familiar with entire family tree hundreds of years ago because in Somalia first question when you meet someone will be \u201cWho are you?\u201d and then they are starting to recite all ancestors until they find a mutual one. That can save your life (it saved Ayaan\u2019s) because the whole population of Somalia is divided in several clans and everything there is based precisely on that. Any kind of help: health care, shelter, financial helps \u2026 etc. It\u2019s horribly tight bond between them (and horribly huge risk if you disgrace your clan). Later we see first \u201crebellion\u201d in the actions of Ayaan\u2019s mother but still she was women who followed the rule and also was able to accept her destiny because that was Allah\u2019s will. Ayaan\u2019s family was a kind of nomadic ones because due to her father\u2019s political activism they had to hide and run away from one place to another. Therefore she lived during her childhood in Somalia, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia and Kenya. While reading those pages it was as if I\u2019m reading some fictional story from another dimension. Of course accent was on the women in Islam. Obligation to be covered, obligation to not leave the house without a man, obligation to accept (everything), obligation to not argue, obligation to bear, obligation to be sexually available to her husband whenever he wants to \u201cplough his field\u201d, obligation to be obedient, obligation to submit. Because word \u201cIslam\u201d means \u201csubmission\u201d. Moreover she was unfortunate enough to belong to the Muslim community where girls must be circumcised. So indeed that part was like something from another world. We can see how she was growing up physically and religiously. How she wanted so badly to be a good Muslim woman who follows all the rules but in the same time she has had many questions in spite the fact that questions are forbidden. It is one breathtaking image of immense mental struggle between her believes, what she has been taught it\u2019s the only truth and the life facts which were quite opposite. It was literally painful to read, emotion was quite similar to claustrophobia. Eventually she started to talk with criticism about her own religion, she was loud in her statement against position of women (that especially refers in Muslim communities in European countries i.e. Holland) and naturally pile up the anger of Muslim world on herself. It is a breathtaking story of a woman who (in her own words) was lucky. Once she was a child from the desert with extremely limited possibilities but who became elected member of a Dutch Parliament. But what has the biggest impact on me is that I \u201cfound\u201d myself in the book. Namely I realized that I belong to the huge majority of European Christians who are trying to avoid speaking with criticism about other religions because that might be connected very easily with racism (nationalism, fascism, etc). Since I lived in the country that has fallen apart in undoubtedly religious war (it was civilian war of course but in first place it was religious one) I\u2019m trying to be very tolerant and to understand the point of views of the \u201copposite\u201d side. I realized that I do have very Christian look on Islam and religions in general. I honestly believed that all religions (therefore Islam as well) are good, are love, peace, tolerance etc. Right? Wrong! Ayaan Hirsi Ali in this book is telling us that Islam is love and tolerance (in very limited sense) but ONLY inside the Muslim world. For all others who aren\u2019t belonging to that world it is a threat because it gives a strict order to all believers to convert or kill the rest of us who are considered as nonbelievers. Another amazing thing is that many inside the Muslim population are not aware of that because the Holly Koran is written in Arabic, language they don\u2019t understand. What a paradox! What is written in Koran is not only religious message but an absolute constant that is defying every singe aspect in believer\u2019s life. It is quite unbelievable that it is expected from nowadays believers to strictly follow the rule (and apply sanctions) of desert tribes of Saudi Arabia in the 7th century! But still if they\u2019re not following those rules (or even if they think of theirs reasons) they\u2019re not good believers and deserve to be punished. And those things about unbelievers are written in Koran. Now I really don\u2019t know what to think? That\u2019s why I\u2019d love if I could have another opportunity to speak again with Belgrade\u2019s Imam who is a very dear man, but I\u2019m wondering if he\u2019s not aggressive toward Christians and doesn\u2019t call his believers to be aggressive; if he doesn\u2019t think that he lives in the country of nonbelievers; if he preaches love, peace and tolerance he must be considered as a bad Muslim from the point of view of the followers of traditional Islam about whom Hirsi Ali is writing because that is not what Koran demands. This book, her entire life is a monument of freedom of speech. Her criticism has arguments. Europe is also criticized with every right. Remember Danish cartoon scandal? A cancellation of theater plays which has the theme Prophet or even include Prophet together with representatives from other religions etc? That culture of self-censorship will completely ruin European values. That is not our heritage; that is not heritage of modern world! Allowing speech of hatred which is targeting people who are not Muslims (that can be heard in the mosques across the Europe) we here are accepting and justifying it with freedom of speech; When Muslim communities in the Europe are practicing traditional Islam that violates numerous human rights, we here are justifying that with religious freedom! Is female genital mutilation performed on young girls on the kitchen table in the middle of Europe religious freedom? As I said I\u2019m quite confused (this book is so enormously thought provoking); I\u2019m not paranoid person, on the contrary. Moreover my contact with Islam is not nearly like this. I studied Farsi for several years and have many Iranian friends and I adore their cultural heritage; I know members of Muslim communities here and they aren\u2019t nearly fanatics, they are my friends and I can unquestionably rely on them. I guess we [Serbia:] are not rich enough to be interesting for refugees from much more rigid and traditional environments. Hirsi Ali speaks with arguments and with statistic data of (mainly) women victims of Islamic fanatics inside their own families here in Europe. Many are victims of self combustion with gasoline (because they had sex before marriage) in a front of their fathers and brothers. If she refuse to kill herself they [father or brother:] would kill her. That\u2019s not, that can\u2019t be religious freedom! It\u2019s high time for us to realize that tolerance of intolerance is cowardice. ...more I'm kind of shell-shocked. The squishy Liberal views that have, up to now, dominated my concepts about immigration, multiculturalism, integration, Islam, the burqa, and a live-and-let-live philosophy, have all been shaken and stirred beyond recognition. Hirsi Ali is an extraordinary woman, to have survived and risen above her incredibly dysfunctional upbringing. Dysfunctional in part because her family was rife with superstition, anger, and violence - largely because her mother was a volatile an I'm kind of shell-shocked. The squishy Liberal views that have, up to now, dominated my concepts about immigration, multiculturalism, integration, Islam, the burqa, and a live-and-let-live philosophy, have all been shaken and stirred beyond recognition. Hirsi Ali is an extraordinary woman, to have survived and risen above her incredibly dysfunctional upbringing. Dysfunctional in part because her family was rife with superstition, anger, and violence - largely because her mother was a volatile and depressed Muslim fundamentalist, from an incredibly restrictive culture, who foisted a whole stack of bizarre ideas upon her children. But her father was not a lot better. Her description of her childhood - in Somalia, Saudi Arabia and Kenya - is quite overwhelming. For me one of the outstanding features was the degree to which it was permeated with burdensome religious ideas - and the heinous practices that these ideas generated. Even just the degree of time they had to spend learning about Islam and the Quran, meant they were limited in the time they had to learn about other things. The incredible thing was that when Hirsi Ali finally absconded to the Netherlands and met Western culture and ideas, she was able to take huge intellectual gulps of fresh air, and embrace the freedom, politics and fairness of the society she found there. She talks a lot in the book about Muslim women who are not able to make this leap, but who remain stuck in the rigid structures of their upbringing. This was not so for Hirsi Ali - she learnt Dutch, educated herself, and eventually even ended up as a very popular member of parliament. Of course there are many Muslims who practise a benign and philanthropic form of Islam - but Hirsi Ali makes it very clear that this is not always the case, and it is not always the case in the West either. She talks about Muslim enclaves in our cities, where all sorts of gross Islamic traditions are still being continued - forced marriages, domestic violence against women, FGM and honour killings. She makes it clear that fundamentalism can often be an issue in immigrant societies, and she stresses the difficulties of changing these attitudes, and how these attitudes are often embraced by younger generations. She is currently living in America, working for The American Enterprise Institute - a centre right think tank. Under its umbrella she started the AHA Foundation, which fights for women's rights, especially concerning issues like FGM and and honour killings. If I have moved a metaphorical five miles over the course of my life, Hirsi Ali has moved at least a hundred miles over the course of hers. I am still stunned by what she has managed to achieve. What an incredible woman, and what an incredible communicator. If you only read one more book this year - make sure it is this one. -------------------------------------------------------- There are a lot of articles questioning Hirsi Ali's attitudes. Here is one... http://www.slate.com/articles/life/fa... ...more This masquerades as pure autobiography of the daughter of an iconic Somali revolutionary, who was absent for most of her life and left her, her brother, and her sister to be cared for by a heavy handed grandmother and an abusive mother. If I were rating the review as an autobiography, I would give it an additional star. As an autobiography, it does not let you down, although it does drag a little slower towards the end. When reading this book, however, you quickly realize that there is somewhat o This masquerades as pure autobiography of the daughter of an iconic Somali revolutionary, who was absent for most of her life and left her, her brother, and her sister to be cared for by a heavy handed grandmother and an abusive mother. If I were rating the review as an autobiography, I would give it an additional star. As an autobiography, it does not let you down, although it does drag a little slower towards the end. When reading this book, however, you quickly realize that there is somewhat of a political agenda. I am not sure if most Americans would understand this since most would know very little, if they know anything at all, about Ali. The fact is that she is, again, the daughter of a highly respected Somali nationalist and revolutionary. She also served in the Dutch parliament, which later became scandelous when it was disclosed that she had lied to obtain refugee status. When you look at her whole life, however, it's easy to justify her lying. Anyone who says they would not lie to escape some of the circumstances she endured in Somali, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopa and Kenya is lying. She also became famous for her speeches and holding up the \"art mirror\" to Muslim society, in particular its treatment of women and others who are, mildly putting it, pushed off to the sidelines. In the end, however, the book does become political and I eventually found that she becomes a bit too heavy handed, one sided, and judgmental towards Islam. For this reason, I had to deduct some of my stars. Unlike some of the other reviewers, however, I do not think Ali wrote an autobiography purely as an autobiography. She has always been in the political spotlight; if anything, I think she's now riding the wave on this book while she can. ...more Some of the reviews on GoodReads for Infidel have accused Ayaan Hirsi Ali of using the platform of autobiography to expound her political views and have suggested that any American reading this book may not pick up on a perceived subtlety of doing so (whereas, one suspects, in Holland this is quite obvious). My response to this is: of course she has. Any autobiography worth reading has to be more than a simple cataloging of life\u2019s events; otherwise it would simply be a journal. Imagine reading B Some of the reviews on GoodReads for Infidel have accused Ayaan Hirsi Ali of using the platform of autobiography to expound her political views and have suggested that any American reading this book may not pick up on a perceived subtlety of doing so (whereas, one suspects, in Holland this is quite obvious). My response to this is: of course she has. Any autobiography worth reading has to be more than a simple cataloging of life\u2019s events; otherwise it would simply be a journal. Imagine reading Bill Clinton\u2019s My Life and having it be bereft of political opinion. In that way, I think Infidel works splendidly as a political work, particularly in the second half once Ali begins finding her identify. In fact, I believe it is the second part of the book that Ali shines, both as a human and as a writer. In much the same way she was discovering herself as a human in the first half of the book, I too believe that she was discovering herself as a writer. Her pace increases as does the detail to which she describes those life experiences that were shaping her very being. I suppose that as a Westerner, this perception may be biased by an interest in reading more about Western culture rather than Islamic culture, but so be it. Fortunately, Ali\u2019s book is a successful melding of the two, brought about by her own transition. Finally, given that I live in a country that\u2019s news cycle is driven by sound bites and the latest murder of a suburban housewife, I appreciate that Ali\u2019s book filled in the gaps of a news story I only vaguely remember hearing about (the slaughter of Theo van Gogh in 2004). If nothing else, Infidel reminds me that I should probably be watching the BBC more often. ...more A Remarkable Transition What a transition this individual has gone through! This autobiography describes the Somalian author's early life in Mogadishu, Saudi Arabia, and Nairobi, Kenya. Most of it is repressive. She was beaten routinely by her grandmother and mother. She had to do household chores while her older brother went out with his friends. She was also genitally excised (clitoris and labia removed) - the sole purpose being to inhibit sexual enjoyment. It is another way to inhibit a woman A Remarkable Transition What a transition this individual has gone through! This autobiography describes the Somalian author's early life in Mogadishu, Saudi Arabia, and Nairobi, Kenya. Most of it is repressive. She was beaten routinely by her grandmother and mother. She had to do household chores while her older brother went out with his friends. She was also genitally excised (clitoris and labia removed) - the sole purpose being to inhibit sexual enjoyment. It is another way to inhibit a woman's self-development and enjoyment. While a teenager the author participated in Islamic discussion groups about the proper nature of the head-scarf - how much or how little to reveal. It would seem that the more of the self that was removed or hidden the happier were the religious extremists. At one point she was beaten by an imman and needed hospitalization. The only pretense to self-fulfillment would be in the afterlife - or perhaps the only gratification allowed was in devotion to God. Her father was absent much of her life; he was unsuccessful in trying to topple the corrupt regime in Somalia. Fortunately the author learned to read and in that she found another world. Even in \"trashy\" novels she observed that a Western woman had a role of her own, could be independent and make decisions. She was shocked and titillated that they were assertive in sexual relations. She decided to act on that growing assertiveness and rebelled when her father made an arranged marriage to a Somali man who loved in Canada. When taking the plane to join this man, she disembarked in Germany and sought refugee status in Holland. It was there that she entered a new world. Women were free; police behaved civilly and even offered protection. A door to an entirely new mode of behavior was opened. Some refugees chose to retreat into their ethnic bubble - not Ayaan. She embraced the freedoms of her new country. Her goal then became to wake up the Muslim-Islamic community to its own inner repression - and to alert the Dutch and greater Western community to the \"backwardness\" found within Islam (it was only after 9/11 that people started listening). Within Europe there are pockets of Muslim communities where wife-beatings and honour killings are acceptable. Children are sent to Quoranic schools where they are NOT taught positive Western/European values - like the equality of women. Instead they are forced to memorize portions of scripture from the Quoran. Women are taught at a young age to be submissive and to dress conservatively. Young girls may be excised genitally. At a young age they may be coerced into an arranged marriage. If they refuse or pursue their own choices (dating) they may be murdered. If they marry and do not obey their husband, they may be beaten. The number of honour killings in Holland proves this. Ayaan made a short film with Dutch film-maker Theo van Gogh. It exposed the rigidness of fundamentalist Islam. For this Theo was violently killed by a Muslim religious fanatic. After this, Ayaan had to go in hiding. Her goal is still to expose the evil and repressiveness of this fundamentalist cult and to get refugees and immigrants to adjust to democracy and the freedoms of Western & European society. ...more This would have been a four star rating, but I'm upping it to five because this book has significantly altered my world view. I've been one of those western liberals, thinking that Islam is mostly about peace and that the violence of it stems only from the fanatics. I'm revising that stance now and am wondering how I could ever have been so blind. Here in Norway, where I live, everyone is ever so willing to adapt to immigrants. We change our school traditions so that we do not offend people who h This would have been a four star rating, but I'm upping it to five because this book has significantly altered my world view. I've been one of those western liberals, thinking that Islam is mostly about peace and that the violence of it stems only from the fanatics. I'm revising that stance now and am wondering how I could ever have been so blind. Here in Norway, where I live, everyone is ever so willing to adapt to immigrants. We change our school traditions so that we do not offend people who have chosen to come here. It's ridiculous. It would never happen the other way around. This book confirms my view and is concerned at how (some) asylum seekers form enclaves and refuse to adapt to western society. I saw this particularly during the years I lived in Germany, with the Muslim women who could not speak a word of German. I too was an immigrant, but I learned German enough to get by in six months. I am straying. Anyhow. This book is about the life of Ayaan. She is Somali and grew up in several countries. Already in the 1980's Somalia was being torn apart in internal fighting between clans. Her story is quite horrid. The subjugation of women in the name of Islam was everywhere, starting with the female gender mutiliation of children. Women's sexuality must be repressed at any cost, otherwise society would fall apart, Ayaan was told. When her father finally, after many years of absence, decide to marry her off to a man she had never met, she balked and ran away to Holland. The second part of the book is about Ayaan's emancipation from clan and religion. This is a powerful book about a woman with more strength and courage than I thought imaginable. The conent has shaken me to my core. Highly recommended. ...more This book opened my eyes to the Muslim world and completely changed my views. It is remarkable what one woman can do to affect change. I cannot recommend highly enough, especially for women. I first saw Ayaan Hirsi Ali on Real Time with Bill Maher a year or two ago and quickly placed her book on my to-read list. It was weird because I tried several times to order the book and it kept getting cancelled from several different vendors. Eerie. Especially when you consider that Hirsi Ali is such a controversial figure who lives her life with bodyguards under the threat of death to this day. It\u2019s a fascinating story. A young girl from a fundamentalist Muslim family in war-torn Somalia, Sau I first saw Ayaan Hirsi Ali on Real Time with Bill Maher a year or two ago and quickly placed her book on my to-read list. It was weird because I tried several times to order the book and it kept getting cancelled from several different vendors. Eerie. Especially when you consider that Hirsi Ali is such a controversial figure who lives her life with bodyguards under the threat of death to this day. It\u2019s a fascinating story. A young girl from a fundamentalist Muslim family in war-torn Somalia, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia and Kenya who escapes as a refugee and eventually becomes an activist and member of Parliament in Holland. In between there\u2019s physical and verbal abuse, arranged marriage, poverty, death and absolute sheer horror. Critics slam the book for painting a dark picture of Islam, but Hirsi Ali is writing about her life and experiences. Then she transforms from devout Muslim to Atheist. Try finding a more extreme leap than that. Probably one of the most horrifying things I\u2019ve ever read was the excruciatingly detailed parts about female genital mutilation. I enjoyed this autobiography. Although I felt it was uneven at times and longer than it needed to be. It\u2019s difficult not to admire her outspokenness about the inhumane treatment of women, but if she was a tad less bitter and politically motivated in the writing of this book I think I would\u2019ve been less turned off. ...more This book is a must read for all people trying to understand the Muslim attitude and outlook. Hirsi Asaan Ali is a courageous woman who has given us a peek into her mind on what a Muslim thinks. I quote so you can see how powerful she is. \"We Muslims had been taught to define life on earth as a passage, a test that precedes real life in the Hereafter. In that test, everyone should ideally live in a manner resembling, as closely as possible, the followers of the Prophet. Didn\u2019t this inhibit invest This book is a must read for all people trying to understand the Muslim attitude and outlook. Hirsi Asaan Ali is a courageous woman who has given us a peek into her mind on what a Muslim thinks. I quote so you can see how powerful she is. \"We Muslims had been taught to define life on earth as a passage, a test that precedes real life in the Hereafter. In that test, everyone should ideally live in a manner resembling, as closely as possible, the followers of the Prophet. Didn\u2019t this inhibit investment in improving daily life? Was innovation therefore forbidden to Muslims? Were human rights, progress, women\u2019s rights all foreign to Islam? By declaring our Prophet infallible and not permitting ourselves to question him, we Muslims had set up a static tyranny. The Prophet Muhammad attempted to legislate every aspect of life. By adhering to his rules of what is permitted and what is forbidden, we Muslims suppressed the freedom to think for ourselves and to act as we choose. We froze the moral outlook of billions of people into the mind-set of the Arab desert in the seventh century. We were not just servants of Allah, we were slaves. \u201cSaudi Arabia is the source of Islam and its quintessence. It is the place where the Muslim religion is practiced in its purest form, and it is the origin of much of the fundamentalist vision that has, in my lifetime, spread far beyond its borders. In Saudi Arabia, every breath, every step we took was infused with concepts of purity or sinning and with fear. Wishful thinking about the peaceful tolerance of Islam cannot interpret away this reality: hands are still cut off, women still stoned and enslaved, just as the Prophet Muhammad decided centuries ago. The kind of thinking I saw in Saudi Arabia, and among the Muslim Brotherhood in Kenya and Somalia, is incompatible with human rights and liberal values. It preserves the feudal mind-set based on tribal concepts of honor and shame. It rests on self-deception, hypocrisy, and double standards. It relies on the technological advances of the West while pretending to ignore their origin in Western thinking. This mind-set makes the transition to modernity very painful for all who practice Islam. We need to educate ourselves about the Muslim faith which is the faith of over half of the world's religious. This book woke me up. I highly recommend it. ...more oh gosh.. only 30 pages into this book and I'm not sure I can read it.. Female castration/ mutilation - this isn't in the dark ages.. this happens in mid 1970 and still happens today!! This is an incredible biography of a girl who was born in a country torn apart by war, in a continent mostly known for what goes wrong rather than right. Measured by the standards of Somalia and Africa she states she is privileged to be alive and thriving. She states; \"Where I grew up, death is a constant visitor. oh gosh.. only 30 pages into this book and I'm not sure I can read it.. Female castration/ mutilation - this isn't in the dark ages.. this happens in mid 1970 and still happens today!! This is an incredible biography of a girl who was born in a country torn apart by war, in a continent mostly known for what goes wrong rather than right. Measured by the standards of Somalia and Africa she states she is privileged to be alive and thriving. She states; \"Where I grew up, death is a constant visitor. A virus, bacteria, a parasite; droughts and famine; soldiers, and torturers; could bring it to anyone, any time. Death comes riding on raindrops that turned to floods. It catches the imagination of men in positions of authority who order their subordinates to hunt, torture and kill people they imagine to be enemies. Death lures many others to take their own lives in order to escape a dismal reality. For many women, because of perceptions of lost honor, death comes at the hands of a father, brother, or husband. Death comes to young woman giving birth to new life, leaving the newborn orphaned in the hands of strangers For those who live in anarchy and civil war, as in the country of Somalia, death is everywhere\". When she was born, her mother initially thought she had died. When she later got malaria and pneumonia she recovered. When her genitals were cut, the wound healed. When a bandit held a knife to her throat, he decided not to slit it.. when her Quran teacher fractured her skull, the doctor who treated her kept death at bay. In the second half of the book she flees to Amsterdam when she is married to a man her father has chosen who she does not want to marry She takes the chance at freedom, a life in which she would be free from bondage to someone she had not chosen, and in which her mind, too, could be free. She states she first encountered the full strength of Islam as a young child in Saudi Arabia. It was very different from the diluted religion of her grandmother, which was mixed with magical practices and pre-Islamic beliefs. Saudi Arabia is the source of Islam and its quintessence. It is the place where the Muslim religion is practiced in its purest form, and its is the origin of much of the fundamentalist vision that has, in our lifetime, spread far beyond its borders. \"In Saudi Arabia, every breath, every step we took, was infused with concepts of purity or sinning, and with fear.. Wishful thinking about the peaceful tolerance of Islam cannot interpret away this reality; hands are still cut off, women still stoned and enslaved, just as the Prophet Muhammad decided centuries ago..\" The kind of thinking she saw in Saudi Arabia, and among the Muslim Brotherhood in Kenya and Somalia, is incompatible with human rights and liberal values. It preserves a feudal mind-set based on tribal concepts of honor and shame. It rests on self-deception, hypocrisy, and double standards. It relies on the technological advances of the West, while pretending to ignore their origin in Western thinking. This mind-set makes the transition to modernity very painful for all who practice Islam. It is always difficult to make the transition to a modern world. It was difficult for her and all her relatives from the miye. It was difficult when she moved from the world of faith to the world of reason - from the world of excision and forced marriage to the world of sexual emancipation. Having made that journey, she knows that one of those worlds is simply better than the other. Not because of its flashy gadgets, but fundamentally, because of its values. The message of this book, is that we in the West would be wrong to prolong the pain of that transition unnecessarily, by elevating cultures full of bigotry and hatred toward women to the stature of respectable alternative ways of life. People accuse her of having internalized a feeling of racial inferiority, so that she attacks her own culture out of self-hatred because she wants to be white.. This is a tiresome argument. She asks, \"Is freedom then only for white people? Is it self-love to adhere to my ancestors' tradition and mutilate my daughters? to agree to be humiliated and powerless? To watch passively as my countrymen abuse women and slaughter each other in pointless disputes?\" When she comes to a new culture, where she saw for the first time that human relations could be different, would it have been self-love to see that as a foreign cult, which Muslims are forbidden to practice? Her decision to write the book, exposing so many private memories, was made to allow the world to know... how many girls are still excised and married off in the modern Muslim world. The fact is that hundreds of millions of women around the world live in forced marriages, and six thousand small girls are excised every day!!! Her excision in no way damaged her mental capacities. As was proven when she got her degree in political science in Holland and was elected to Parliament. Where once again, she is threatened with death, by speaking out for freedom and change. She lives under guard as much a prisoner as she was before.. For a short chaotic time ~ Ayaan Hirse Ali gives a strong voice to when all her dissonant thoughts snapped open and she found herself thinking that the Quran is not a holy document, it is a historical record, written by humans. It is one version of events, as perceived by the man who wrote it 150 years after the Prophet Muhammad died. It is a tribal and Arab version of events. It spreads a culture that is brutal, bigoted, fixated on controlling women, and harsh in war. For her to think this way of course she had to make the leap to believing the Quran was relative - not absolute, not literal syllables pronounced by God, but just another book. She made the 10 minute art movie, 'Submission' to give a message - that men, and even women, may look up and speak to Allah; It is possible for believers to have a dialogue with God and look closely at him .. The rigid interpretation of the Quran in Islam today causes intolerable misery for women... and finally, that she may no longer submit.. It is possible to free oneself - to adapt one's faith , to examine it critically, and to think about the degree to which that faith is itself at the foot of oppression. A powerful, thought provoking biography. A book I will probably never forget! ...more I found that her view of Islam was extremely negative and she sounded more bitter then she exclaimed. The situations that she faced in a closed society where women's rights are pretty much non-existent I felt somewhat tainted Her opinions and descriptions about Islam..... They were quite biased and one sided and at most times I felt more resentment then honesty which is quite sad, she brought though some very good points about mutilation and the rights of women in such societies. But got distrac I found that her view of Islam was extremely negative and she sounded more bitter then she exclaimed. The situations that she faced in a closed society where women's rights are pretty much non-existent I felt somewhat tainted Her opinions and descriptions about Islam..... They were quite biased and one sided and at most times I felt more resentment then honesty which is quite sad, she brought though some very good points about mutilation and the rights of women in such societies. But got distracted with blaming the religion and not the people and their backword tribalistic traditions which are the cause for most of the suffering and violations of women's rights in these countries. ...more Infidel by Ayaan Hirsi Ali \u201cThere are times when silence becomes an accomplice to injustice.\u201d \u2015 Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Infidel FTC NOTICE: Library Book REVIEW: Ayaan Hirsi Ali did it again--she easily pulled a five-star rating out of me for a second time. I had inadvertently read \" Nomad \" before \" Infidel \" because I did not have knowledge of this book as being her first one. Once I started reading, \" Infidel ,\" I was hoping that she would not simply re-state everything I had already read in the other text. S Infidel by Ayaan Hirsi Ali \u201cThere are times when silence becomes an accomplice to injustice.\u201d \u2015 Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Infidel FTC NOTICE: Library Book REVIEW: Ayaan Hirsi Ali did it again--she easily pulled a five-star rating out of me for a second time. I had inadvertently read \" Nomad \" before \" Infidel \" because I did not have knowledge of this book as being her first one. Once I started reading, \" Infidel ,\" I was hoping that she would not simply re-state everything I had already read in the other text. She did not. In fact, while the author's voice was consistent in both pieces of literature, the reader was educated with a series of micro-histories that could not be disregarded, neither in the character development of this fine woman nor in the culmination of Muslim Fundamentalist religious ferver on a worldwide scale. Ayaan wanted to \"...be judged on the validity of (her) arguments, not as a victim.\" This stance seemed to exist as a delicately crafted undercurrent of her stories while she continued to educate the reader about her life and that of so many innocent people around the world. When she asserted that \"My combat was legitimate,\" it was Hirsi Ali's way of wrapping up all of the facts into a neat package and making it clear to the reader that he/she was in survival mode with the author as well. The only difficulty I face in writing this review is that anything submitted cannot do this author's fine work the justice that it deserves. I find myself in awe of her life experience and how she has chosen to manifest them into an incredibly educated, passionate and compassionate existence. In closing, I cannot wait to get my hands on her next book, \" The Caged Virgin ,\" and continue along the path of this educational journey and heightened sense of awareness that she has created. ...more I'm not putting this on any shelf except for Biography and history. The subject matter may touch on other topics but i don't want to mislead nor put anyone off. This book is informative, insightful, sad, frightening (even horrifying). I would say that this book is not to be missed. Ayaan Hirsi Ali is a young woman who was reared in a strict Islamic family and country. This is the story of her journey through loss, pain danger, growth, development and it's still going on. I'm not going to say much I'm not putting this on any shelf except for Biography and history. The subject matter may touch on other topics but i don't want to mislead nor put anyone off. This book is informative, insightful, sad, frightening (even horrifying). I would say that this book is not to be missed. Ayaan Hirsi Ali is a young woman who was reared in a strict Islamic family and country. This is the story of her journey through loss, pain danger, growth, development and it's still going on. I'm not going to say much about her journey as in the short space allotted a review I could never do justice to her story and might in fact inadvertently mislead. For those who wonder it seems to me that Ms. Ayaan Hirsi Ali may be what would be called an agnostic now. She has not (so far as I know) renounced her Islamism but she has said that the way it's practiced is backward and damaging. See, even that is an incomplete statement. She has been for years in danger of her life as she worked with refugees and did all she could to make lives better. So again, let me say, read the book. I probably can't recommend it too highly. ...more Infidel is an amazing book, on many levels. It\u2019s an amazing story, work of historical analysis, political philosophy, and dissection of Islam as viewed through the autobiography of a remarkable woman (Ayaan Hirsi Ali/Magan) who will not fail to point out that among Muslim women, she is singularly fortunate. Just look at what she has done through the power of logos: mastered languages (she is fluent in Somali, Arabic, Swahili, English, and Dutch), logistics (she has negotiated her way from the po Infidel is an amazing book, on many levels. It\u2019s an amazing story, work of historical analysis, political philosophy, and dissection of Islam as viewed through the autobiography of a remarkable woman (Ayaan Hirsi Ali/Magan) who will not fail to point out that among Muslim women, she is singularly fortunate. Just look at what she has done through the power of logos: mastered languages (she is fluent in Somali, Arabic, Swahili, English, and Dutch), logistics (she has negotiated her way from the post-colonial violence of East Africa into asylum, citizenship, and ultimately a seat in Parliament in the Netherlands), and logic (she has questioned traditional clan, government, and religious authority). Furthermore, atop the impressive weight of her own argument and experience, she carries the ultimate stamp of authority \u2013 those in power whom she opposes fear her and publicly call for her murder. Somewhat paradoxically, Ali\u2019s public voice arose not only out of Dutch tolerance, but in reaction to it. Her central thesis is that the peaceable diversity promoted by multiculturalism cannot be successful without shared experiences and values, and that tolerance of alternative folkways and practices must neither impose segregation nor permit acceptance of self-imposed isolation. As chronicled here, Ali has sacrificed much to attain her present position of intellectual and physical freedom. She has endured ostracism from family, clan, countrymen (emphasis on men), and (former) coreligionists along with the crippling self-doubt that comes with such shunning. Fortunately, the world is wide, and she appreciates her acceptance among a free-speech loving people and those sympathetic to human rights. Ali develops her insights through relating her poignant life story. Hers was not a warm, cuddly childhood, but one in which an insect-infested bit of food in the rural dirt gives rise to her grandmother\u2019s diktat (page 9), \u201cA woman alone is like a piece of sheep fat in the sun\u2026. Everything will come and feed on that fat. Before you know it, the ants and insects are crawling all over it, until there is nothing left but a smear of grease.\u201d This statement comes neither as a warning nor a lament, but a statement of simple fact, one accepted by men and women alike. It is through such experiences that the heart of Ali\u2019s \u201cinfidelity\u201d to her Islamic faith pulses not in her stance against the extremist thought and cruel practices of Islamic fundamentalism but in her claim that Islam is inherently fundamentalist in nature and incapable of reformation. She quotes a variety of Quran passages that render women mere chattel to men\u2019s designs and which make possible a culture of violence, ignorance, and poverty in which women and children are fair game for anyone with the Quran-lauded strength and desire to take and do with them what they will. Ali rebels against what she describes as an unreasoning submission of body, mind, and spirit in the face of the dual threats of eternal damnation and temporal vengeance. Her memoir is in many ways, a chronicle of an emergent crisis of faith. At pp. 272-273, she concludes: I could no longer avoid seeing the totalitarianism, the pure moral framework that is Islam. It regulates every detail of life and subjugates free will. True Islam, as a rigid belief system and a moral framework, leads to cruelty. {Terrorism is\u2026} the logical outcome of this detailed system for regulating human behavior. Their world is divided between \u2018Us\u2019 and \u2018Them\u2019 \u2013 if you don\u2019t accept Islam you should perish. It {doesn\u2019t} have to be this way\u2026. We Muslims could shed our attachment to those dogmas that clearly lead to ignorance and oppression\u2026. We could hold our dogmas up to the light, scrutinize them, and then infuse traditions that are rigid and inhumane with the values of progress and modernity\u2026. For me to think this way, of course, I had to make the leap to believing that the Quran was relative \u2013 not the literal syllables pronounced by God, but just another book. However, this desire to soften the Quran into a more egalitarian stance, to be a \u201cMuslim Voltaire\u201d and push for compassion and empathy based on common humanity rather than inward-facing misogynist xenophobia arises from observing that the tendency for asocial exclusion is not limited to any particular culture or group. At page 68 she lightly mocks the self-segregation that took place at her secondary school in Kenya, where in \u201cthe politics of lunchboxes\u201d Kenyan Kikuyu, Kamba, and Luo each despised one another and collectively reviled the Somali Darod, who likewise looked down on the Somali Hawiye, who together disdained the Yemenis, all of whom were in their turn at odds with the \u201cbackward\u201d Saudis \u2013 to say nothing of the Indians and Pakistanis who themselves maintained a caste of Untouchables. (All together now in singing Peter Gabriel\u2019s \u201cNot One of Us?\u201d) Nor did she find the situation much changed as a young adult in junior college in Holland, where pillars of Protestants, Catholics, and secular liberals could exist in relative isolation so long as they remained willing to come together to repair the dikes (at p. 239). Or for that matter, in college (at p. 241), where clans and nationalities gave way to class distinctions of preppy clones, trashy girls who failed to dye their roots, and sleazy girls who did drugs, each of whom perpetuate their respective in-groups by self-selecting fraternity and sorority housing. After growing up with Ali in an environment of genital mutilation and regular, ritualized beatings strong enough to leave her with a broken skull, you have to appreciate her rejection of collegiate hazing opportunities in her early 20s as much as her break with the Parliamentary power-mongering exercised by Dutch political parties she encounters in her late 30s. If this comes across as so much moralizing in my synopsis, that\u2019s a grave injustice to Ali and those of her friends and acquaintances who have been threatened, maimed, and killed by those who cannot tolerate a little cognitive dissonance or who fear Ali\u2019s truth to power. Infidel is a riveting narrative, free of histrionics and hysteria, full of wit and wisdom. Arriving in a German airport and speaking to a taxicab driver her first time out of the Muslim world, her reactions are classic fish-out-of-water comedy. But if her painful experiences should be leavened with humor, in no way should this detract from the seriousness of her conclusions about the root causes perpetuating Islamic cruelty. If anything, her juxtapositions render the subject matter all the more provocative to \u201cenlightened\u201d readers. You can laugh, cry, and get angry in the face of ongoing human atrocity, but you cannot ignore it. ...more This is a great article on why I dislike this book, and Ayaan Hirsi Ali. I'm going to just copy and paste some excerpts outlining her biases. http://www.thescavenger.net/feminism-... \"Now, I\u2019m no fan of religion \u2013 of any kind. But Hirsi Ali\u2019s simultaneous condemnation of Islam and obvious admiration of Christianity was disturbing. As with any religion or ideology, it\u2019s how it\u2019s practised that impacts on people\u2019s lives and on society. Many of Hirsi Ali\u2019s criticisms of Islam could be applied to funda This is a great article on why I dislike this book, and Ayaan Hirsi Ali. I'm going to just copy and paste some excerpts outlining her biases. http://www.thescavenger.net/feminism-... \"Now, I\u2019m no fan of religion \u2013 of any kind. But Hirsi Ali\u2019s simultaneous condemnation of Islam and obvious admiration of Christianity was disturbing. As with any religion or ideology, it\u2019s how it\u2019s practised that impacts on people\u2019s lives and on society. Many of Hirsi Ali\u2019s criticisms of Islam could be applied to fundamentalist Christianity: unwavering adherence to the Bible and the control of women\u2019s sexuality. Even FGM has a western parallel in the state-sanctioned, legal, non-consensual mutilation of intersex children\u2019s genitals to force them to conform to a male/female sex binary \u2013 something that rarely warrants an outcry in mainstream media or from feminist activists. If Christian fundamentalists such as Fred Phelps and the Westboro Baptist Church had their way, our society would look very different in terms of women\u2019s and queer rights, to name just two. Of course in no way am I saying that we should not pay attention to and speak out against the abuses endured by so many women and girls in the Muslim world. Nor am I saying we should not be critical of radical, fundamentalist Islam \u2013 as Mona Siddiqui points out in her review of Nomad in the UK\u2019s Daily Telegraph, there are many Muslims who fear radical Islam. But vilifying an entire religion or people who follow that religion is not the way to create a harmonious society \u2013 as history as shown time and again. The irony is that while Hirsi Ali is (rightly) applauded for her courage in fighting for and finding personal freedom, she now denies others such rights. In unleashing her wrath on Islamic fundamentalism, she has (perhaps unwittingly) become a fundamentalist herself. It doesn\u2019t help that she has achieved celebrity status, because once a person reaches a certain level of fame for their ideas, they are then invested in sticking with them for their own economic survival. It\u2019s a rare academic, writer or thinker who is willing to take the risk of losing their career and/or income by doing an about-turn. So, perhaps it\u2019s down to publishers to champion other writers with as much vigour as they do Hirsi Ali; to publish and promote the hell out of the work of Muslim feminists working on the ground in their local communities to educate and effect change; to bring the female activists such as those featured in Coleman\u2019s book to international writers\u2019 festivals and posh venues like the Sydney Opera House.\" ...more This book is spectacular. I totally admire the honesty and the bravery of Ayaan Hirsi Ali. She is a very impressive and important woman. Her story of life, with it's many twists and turns, in various African and Middle Eastern countries as a child and a teenager is fascinating, and very revealing when it comes to the culture of Islam; especially in relation to free thought and the treatment of women. The story of her escape to freedom in Holland, the warmth of her reception there, and the impact This book is spectacular. I totally admire the honesty and the bravery of Ayaan Hirsi Ali. She is a very impressive and important woman. Her story of life, with it's many twists and turns, in various African and Middle Eastern countries as a child and a teenager is fascinating, and very revealing when it comes to the culture of Islam; especially in relation to free thought and the treatment of women. The story of her escape to freedom in Holland, the warmth of her reception there, and the impact it had on her, was one of the many times I got emotional reading this book. It serves to highlight the value of a welcoming, generous attitude towards refugees to help them to assimilate into society as the author was able to do. However, certainly the most valuable message in this book (although there are many valuable messages), is that in the West we cannot turn a blind eye to blatant barbarism. \"Honor\" killings; excisions; violence against women; and rape of wives by their husbands, are not acceptable practices anywhere, and certainly should not be acceptable in the West. It is simply childish, ignorant nonsense to defend barbarism in the name of tolerance. Liberals need to wake up and apply their liberalism to everyone in society, more needs to be done to ensure every child in Europe and America is given a secular education and is taught to value reason and evidence. Only then can fundamentalist beliefs which incite violence and hatred, intellectually and physically enslave women, and elevate ignorance to a virtue, be eradicated. There are many bigots in our countries, there is no doubt of that, but there are real concerns about Islam in the West that are not bigoted by any stretch of the (rational) imagination. Criticism of a belief system as dangerous as Islam cannot be left to Nigel Farage and Pat Robertson. ...more So Bill Maher, Sam Harris, and other atheists really love her story and offer it as proof that Islam is an evil religion, but of course so are all religions to them. The new atheist writers desire to destroy all religious beliefs of others. I watch Bill Maher, and I love his ideas and beliefs, but just not those on religion. I know better; I know better to not agree with the other atheist writers too. Nothing is all bad or good. For as many books on the evil of religion that are produced, I can So Bill Maher, Sam Harris, and other atheists really love her story and offer it as proof that Islam is an evil religion, but of course so are all religions to them. The new atheist writers desire to destroy all religious beliefs of others. I watch Bill Maher, and I love his ideas and beliefs, but just not those on religion. I know better; I know better to not agree with the other atheist writers too. Nothing is all bad or good. For as many books on the evil of religion that are produced, I can find just as many that speak of the value that religion has had in people's lives, and the good that it has done. And as many scriptures that a person can show that are in the bible or the Quran, that talk of cutting off hands, stoning women or homosexuals, I can find you just as many that speak of treating others with love and kindness. I can even show you scriptures in Buddhism or Hinduism that I find very offensive. Man picks and chooses what he desires to do, and then makes claims that it was done in the name of God. The good man picks that which is beautiful and kind for that is what touches his heart; the bad man chooses that which he can use to cause more evil. I can tell you stories and offer statistics in America on the abuse of women, beatings, rape, sand murders. I can tell you that there are religions that wish we could still practice the Mosaic Law where you can kill people. It is America's laws that prevent this from happening, and I can't help but wonder if these laws were written by non-Christians, or even by Christians with a good heart, to protect the non-believers. It bothers me that so many people seem to have bought into the belief system of this woman who has suffered greatly, and what I am saying is, this doesn't make all Islamic people evil. But here in America, it is popular to read books that are anti-Islamic. The conservative evangelical Christians want it that way. It is they who desire to force their beliefs onto others, and the same can be said of the new atheists. Some Christian Americans are showing hatred towards the Muslims that are fleeing their country. This is horrendous and saddens me. Do Christians fear for their lives? Do they really believe that the Muslims are going to kill them? Didn't their bible tell them to \"fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul?\" What do they really fear? And just in case anyone questions my own beliefs, I am not an atheist, a Christian, a Muslim, a Buddhist, or a Hindu. I can only offer now what other Muslims have said, as I do not wish to compare scriptures or other women's stories: \u201cMy friends, when the outlaws of Islam, the khawarej, murder; when they plunder; when they exploit children and reject the equality of women before God, they abuse Islam. When the khawarej persecute minorities, when they deny freedom of religion \u2013 they abuse Islam.\u201d ~King Abdullah II of Jordan \u201cIslam teaches that all humanity is equal in dignity. There is no distinction among different nations or regions or races. The Qur\u2019an forbids coercion in religion. Every citizen is guaranteed the state\u2019s protection for their lives, families, properties, honour, privacy, and freedom of religion and thought.\" ~King Abdullah of Jordan Malcolm X went to Mecca, and when he returned he was a changed man. He was told that the African -American Nation of Islam didn't teach the true Muslim faith, for the true Muslim faith loved all races. I do not know if that has changed for the Nation of Islam. When he was in Makkah, he wrote a letter to his loyal assistants in Harlem: \"Never have I witnessed such sincere hospitality and overwhelming spirit of true brotherhood as is practiced by people of all colors and races here in this ancient Holy Land, the home of Abraham, Muhammad and all the other Prophets of the Holy Scriptures. For the past week, I have been utterly speechless and spellbound by the graciousness I see displayed all around me by people of all colors... There were tens of thousands of pilgrims, from all over the world. They were of all colors, from blue-eyed blondes to black-skinned Africans. But we were all participating in the same ritual, displaying a spirit of unity and brotherhood that my experiences in America had led me to believe never could exist between the white and non-white. America needs to understand Islam, because this is the one religion that erases from its society the race problem. Throughout my travels in the Muslim world, I have met, talked to, and even eaten with people who in America would have been considered white - but the white attitude was removed from their minds by the religion of Islam. I have never before seen sincere and true brotherhood practiced by all colors together, irrespective of their color. You may be shocked by these words coming from me. But on this pilgrimage, what I have seen, and experienced, has forced me to rearrange much of my thought-patterns previously held, and to toss aside some of my previous conclusions. This was not too difficult for me. Despite my firm convictions, I have always been a man who tries to face facts, and to accept the reality of life as new experience and new knowledge unfolds it. I have always kept an open mind, which is necessary to the flexibility that must go hand in hand with every form of intelligent search for truth. During the past eleven days here in the Muslim world, I have eaten from the same plate, drunk from the same glass, and slept on the same rug - while praying to the same God - with fellow Muslims, whose eyes were the bluest of blue, whose hair was the blondest of blond, and whose skin was the whitest of white. And in the words and in the deeds of the white Muslims, I felt the same sincerity that I felt among the black African Muslims of Nigeria, Sudan and Ghana.\" \"We were truly all the same (brothers) - because their belief in one God had removed the white from their minds, the white from their behavior, and the white from their attitude. I could see from this, that perhaps if white Americans could accept the Oneness of God, then perhaps, too, they could accept in reality the Oneness of Man - and cease to measure, and hinder, and harm others in terms of their 'differences' in color. With racism plaguing America like an incurable cancer, the so-called 'Christian' white American heart should be more receptive to a proven solution to such a destructive problem. Perhaps it could be in time to save America from imminent disaster - the same destruction brought upon Germany by racism that eventually destroyed the Germans themselves. Each hour here in the Holy Land enables me to have greater spiritual insights into what is happening in America between black and white. The American Negro never can be blamed for his racial animosities - he is only reacting to four hundred years of the conscious racism of the American whites. But as racism leads America up the suicide path, I do believe, from the experiences that I have had with them, that the whites of the younger generation, in the colleges and universities, will see the handwriting on the walls and many of them will turn to the spiritual path of truth - the only way left to America to ward off the disaster that racism inevitably must lead to. Never have I been so highly honored. Never have I been made to feel more humble and unworthy. Who would believe the blessings that have been heaped upon an American Negro? A few nights ago, a man who would be called in America a white man, a United Nations diplomat, an ambassador, a companion of kings, gave me his hotel suite, his bed. Never would I have even thought of dreaming that I would ever be a recipient of such honors - honors that in America would be bestowed upon a King - not a Negro. All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of all the Worlds. Sincerely, Al-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz (Malcolm X)\" ...more This book is the spiritual and intellectual odyssey of a very remarkable and courageous woman. Ali was born in Somali and raised in a Muslim family. She also lived in Ethopia and Kenya before fleeing to the Netherlands to escape an arranged marriage. While there she became an interpreter for the government and an advocate for the rights of Muslim immigrant women. She eventually became a citizen of that country and a representative to the Dutch parliament. After she produced a film called \"Submis This book is the spiritual and intellectual odyssey of a very remarkable and courageous woman. Ali was born in Somali and raised in a Muslim family. She also lived in Ethopia and Kenya before fleeing to the Netherlands to escape an arranged marriage. While there she became an interpreter for the government and an advocate for the rights of Muslim immigrant women. She eventually became a citizen of that country and a representative to the Dutch parliament. After she produced a film called \"Submission\", which was a documentary exposing the oppression of women in European Muslim communities, her co-producer was murdered by a Muslim fanatic. She had to flee the Netherlands for her life and today works in the US for the American Enterprise Insitute, but still must live with armed guards for protection. A proponent of the Western ideals of the worth and rights of individuals, Ali is a courageous and outspoken advocate of the cause of freedom and women's rights. This is a fascinating and important book. ...more An extraordinary woman. Her criticism of Islam and of sociocultural practice in Islamic countries is for the most part measured and reasonable, though only her most extreme utterances get airtime. She clearly states that female genital mutilation (FGM) is not an Islamic practice but a north African cultural one. The extreme patriarchy, honour killings etc. she criticises are similarly not Islamic per se, though they are often justified and perpetuated in the name of Islam. The rosy spectacle rel An extraordinary woman. Her criticism of Islam and of sociocultural practice in Islamic countries is for the most part measured and reasonable, though only her most extreme utterances get airtime. She clearly states that female genital mutilation (FGM) is not an Islamic practice but a north African cultural one. The extreme patriarchy, honour killings etc. she criticises are similarly not Islamic per se, though they are often justified and perpetuated in the name of Islam. The rosy spectacle religion-of-peace-and-love stuff is all well and good but frequently not a reflection of real-existing Islam as seen on the ground. Her message is essentially that in trying desperately not to tar everyone with the same brush, we pass over spots that definitely need to be tarred. Cultural relativism cannot be used to excuse or ignore practices such as FGM, forced marriage, spousal abuse and rape and honour killings. That's not hysterical ultra-conservatism or racist neo-colonialism, that's a defense of fundamental human rights. ...more Just finished Infidel. I leave the memoir with mixed feelings. On the one hand, I appreciate the strides that the author has made in life, considering the huge obstacles she has overcome. Additionally, I admire her outspokenness concerning women's issues. I left the book feeling an even greater resolve to support organizations and charities that are working to level the gender playing field. It causes me to reflect on my own personal practices and belief systems that work against equity (of any Just finished Infidel. I leave the memoir with mixed feelings. On the one hand, I appreciate the strides that the author has made in life, considering the huge obstacles she has overcome. Additionally, I admire her outspokenness concerning women's issues. I left the book feeling an even greater resolve to support organizations and charities that are working to level the gender playing field. It causes me to reflect on my own personal practices and belief systems that work against equity (of any type). In this way, I benefited from reading her work. On the other hand, there were moments in her book that felt elitist and lacking compassion. Her views on immigrants who were \"taking\" from the welfare system in the Netherlands reminded me of many conversations I have had with bigoted Americans concerning refugees in America. Ayaan was lucky. When she arrived in the Netherlands she was literate, young, left relatively unscathed by war and had lived in conditions that provided her with consistent food and water. The refugees that I work with are often suffering from a form of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Additionally, they are illiterate and have NEVER experienced any type of formal education. These alone are HUGE setbacks in cultures where education is highly valued. Not only is their access to education limited, they are forced into service-oriented jobs that limit their exposure to English. The mind-numbing nature of the work they perform further erodes away at their mental health. Isolation, poverty, and the horrors of war plague many. The systems that are meant to support them often lack funding, political support or manpower. To simply point to the number of people who remain dependent on welfare systems is an injustice to them and their suffering. Adding to that, I felt like the second half of Ali's memoir acted as an Anti-Islamic Manifesto. I was taken aback by some of her generalized statements concerning Muslims. They were simply not consistent with my own personal experiences (not just with white American Muslims, but with Muslims from all over the world). Thirty percent of the students I teach are Muslim. They come from a variety of African and European countries. Here are just a few of my experiences that are quite different than the Muslims Ayaan describes in her book: 1. I taught a young man from Egypt whose mother was a visiting ENT doctor. She was an example of a well educated and highly independent woman who was dedicated to the Islamic faith. 2. I have several young Somali students whose connection with their faith is as varied as they are. One student's father is a prominent Imam in Salt Lake. He has conferenced with me many times. Each time, he has spoken to me about the importance of his daughter's education. He has explained his concern that the Muslim school she attended in Kenya did little to promote her literacy. While another student's mother comes to school and asks if she can volunteer her time, regardless of the fact that she cannot read or write. She simply wants to show her son that education is important through her example. 3. I have several female Muslim students who do not wear the Hijab. They indicate that the veil is just one interpretation of how a female expresses modesty. 4. I have never met with a single father or male student who did not show the utmost respect to me as a female and a teacher. My male students not only show respect to me, they are highly respectful of the young women in the class. Many come to me to ask advice about college, scholarships, life out of high school and community service. While I do not doubt the overwhelming number of women who suffer under the hands of abusive fathers, brothers, and husbands, I have not seen this as an endemic problem to the immigrants that I serve. (Sadly, my experience with domestic abuse has come from Christian homes, not Muslim homes.) It has always been attached to poverty! I fear Ayaan's focus on Islam dilutes women's rights issues. I left with a sense that she felt that if Islam is eliminated, misogyny and abuse will be eliminated with it. But, when looked at with a closer lens this does not hold. Consider: Islam is not a single organization. There are as many widely variant practices and beliefs in Islam as there are in Christianity. Just as Christians interpret their holy book, The Bible differently, so do Muslims have varying interpretations of the Q'uran. There is not a single interpretation. Additionally, dangerous practices that limit women's independence, freedom and self worth are not specific to Muslims. Child brides can be found all over the world. The documentary The Day My God Died is a great testament to the wide spread nature of this problem. Born Into Brothels is another great documentary that exposes the suffering of women and their children forced into sex slavery, isolation and social segregation. Thailand, a primarily Buddhist country has the dubious distinction of the greatest number of known child prostitutes. The general devaluation of women is endemic to the world. While relatively mild in comparison, first world countries carry their own wounds and scars surrounding this important human rights issue. I don't believe that equity will be found by attacking people's faith. I believe that it comes from condemning misogynistic practices. It comes from agreeing on laws that protect women and bring them out of poverty, war, environmental disasters, and limited educations. An intolerance to anything that minimizes women in anyway needs to be promoted. There is not a single traditional religion or culture that has not played a role in the denigration of women. At the same time many of these organizations have done things to support women's education and rise from poverty. Moving forward, we must find a way to use religious organizations to help fight against inequity. ...more This is the memoir of a woman in flight. As a child, she left Somalia fleeing political repression, than Saudi Arabia fleeing religious repression, than Kenya fleeing domestic repression and physical abuse, and as a young adult living in Holland, she fled the repression of a strict moral code and the Islamic faith that embodied it. Ayaan introduced me to cultures that I know little about. I admire the resilience and strength of this woman. This is an amazing story of a very courageous woman. She was raised as a Muslim in Somalia, Saudi Arabia and Kenya. For so many years of struggling with the inequalities and injustices for women in the Islam religion she runs away to Holland as a refugee to avoid an arranged marriage. She becomes a citizen and political figure who fights for women's rights from Muslim worlds. In doing so she has lost her family ties and also stays in hiding for fear for her life. There is obviously something wrong with a society that accepts the male right to kill a female who disobeys him, female genital mutilation and/or the virtual enslavement of the female population. Aayan Hirsi Ali minces no words. She says the fundamental problem in countries that accept this is their religion - Islam. She traces these actions directly to the Koran and those who believe in it and/or accept it. The initial chapters were the most interesting for me. In describing the members of her o There is obviously something wrong with a society that accepts the male right to kill a female who disobeys him, female genital mutilation and/or the virtual enslavement of the female population. Aayan Hirsi Ali minces no words. She says the fundamental problem in countries that accept this is their religion - Islam. She traces these actions directly to the Koran and those who believe in it and/or accept it. The initial chapters were the most interesting for me. In describing the members of her own family, she shows the indoctrination process. Both her parents, her grandmother, her brother and the educational system use violence and draconian punishment to impose submission. Girls have no childhood; boys fare marginally better. She cites the Koran verses used to justify child abuse. Boys become men accepting violence as a means to an end and an unrealistic belief in their superiority and entitlement. Girls become women conditioned into submission. Permitted questions are limited to technicalities such as to what is permitted during the Ramadan fast. Asking \"why\" prompts kicks and thrashings so both males and females learn not to ask questions and grow into adults with a very narrow world view. Hirsi Ali then shows how the coping skills (submission, acceptance of fate, superstition, prayer, loyalty to the clan) used to get through childhood don't work in the modern world. From the age of four, girls are forced to take responsibility in the drudge work of homemaking which includes building fires, hauling water and milking goats. Boys' responsibilities are those of controlling their sisters and guarding for \"purity\". When things go wrong, violence is the only known answer for the males. In the later chapters on what is needed for change, Hirsi Ali is hardest on liberals and feminists. She feels that they accept the abusive treatment of women as a cultural phenomenon. I was with her till this point, in that I know lots of feminists (I consider my self one too) and none of them condone \"four walls and a veil\" and all it entails. Hirsi Ali's employer is typical of many US and international organizations which are much more powerful and better positioned to tackle these issues than feminist groups; their neglect cannot be dumped on US feminists or the academic liberals as Hirsi Ali suggests. I couldn't help but compare the psychological part of Hirsi's experience with those of nuns, priests, the Amish, Mormon polygamists, and home schooled fundamentalists who have to make breaks with their families and their past to lead emotionally healthy lives. Some who have written their stories have faced shunning and abuse but have not had to face have death threats that were both institutional and international. The faiths they have left have had to make accommodations (if only cosmetic) to attract new believers, maintain tax free benefits, avoid prosecution or just save face. Islam has not made any accommodations, nor has it as an institution been called on to do so. Those speaking out for the faith avoid the very real issue of the treatment of women. This is easy to do since the media seems to focus on only one issue at a time. There is a lot to digest in this book. I highly recommend it. ...more Ayaan Hirsi Ali began life in Somalia, the child of two devout Muslims, one of whom was working to organize a rebellion against the country's leader at the time. Because his work was dangerous, he moved his family to Saudi Arabia when Ayaan was eight. That was the first of three more moves within Africa, and the first of many of Ayaan's separations from her father. Living with a rigid, doctrinaire mother who trusted no one who was not from their own Somali clan, Ayaan saw civil war, endured fema Ayaan Hirsi Ali began life in Somalia, the child of two devout Muslims, one of whom was working to organize a rebellion against the country's leader at the time. Because his work was dangerous, he moved his family to Saudi Arabia when Ayaan was eight. That was the first of three more moves within Africa, and the first of many of Ayaan's separations from her father. Living with a rigid, doctrinaire mother who trusted no one who was not from their own Somali clan, Ayaan saw civil war, endured female circumcision, was part of the rise of the Islamist movement called the Muslim Brotherhood, and saw Somalia and Kenya give way to civil war as her parents separated and her father took a third wife (her mother was his second). Her descriptions of Africa at that time are vivid and terrifying as she talks about the separation of men and women in the home, the kinds of schools she, her brother, and her sister attended, and how women were treated every day. Then, when her father arranged for her marriage to a Canadian Muslim, Ayaan broke her trip to Canada in Germany and sought asylum in Holland. The western books she had read growing up had inspired in her a desire to see the western world before she married, and to be an equal partner with her husband. In Holland she saw something like that, but she also saw problems with the rising population of Bosnian, Turkish, and Somali refugees. She learned Dutch, perfected her English, worked as a translator, and got her bachelors' and masters' degrees in political science. But it is after 9/11 that she began to speak and write about what life under Islam was really like, and about how Holland's approach to Muslim refugees was making it possible for them to continue to abuse their women and children. She was asked to run for Parliament, and she served for two years, contributing to programs on immigrants' issues, even under the threat of death for what she had to say about the treatment of women and children under Islam. This is an amazing woman, and an amazing book. I think anyone who thinks they know about Muslim life ought to read it, because it will blow you away. ...more<---C>Rita Verdonk</---C>", "Title": "Infidel"},
