{"Comments": "I only acknowledge that I read this book so I can say how much I hated it. The two main characters are completely unlikable,<---M> one for being completely self-absorbed and selfish</---M>, and the other for being so spineless and whiny. So spineless, in fact, that the action of her sleeping with her friend's fianc\u00e9 wasn't even a credible one. The further I got into it, the more I was disgusted with it. I also found it very difficult to believe that at 30, the two characters would continue to be friends. Usu I only acknowledge that I read this book so I can say how much I hated it. The two main characters are completely unlikable, one for being completely self-absorbed and selfish, and the other for being so spineless and whiny. So spineless, in fact, that the action of her sleeping with her friend's fianc\u00e9 wasn't even a credible one. The further I got into it, the more I was disgusted with it. I also found it very difficult to believe that at 30, the two characters would continue to be friends. Usually by that age, you've phased out the people from your childhood that no longer work in your life. Especially when they are so far removed from your hometown. This lack of credibility was the biggest crack in an already weak foundation for the book. My biggest problem was the overall message seemed to be that as long as your best friend is a bitch, it's okay to sleep with her fianc\u00e9. Come on now, no matter how you color it, it's never okay. ...more It wasn't bad as chicklit goes, but I don't know how sympathetic I can be to characters who are betraying their fiancees and best friends. Plus, in order to make the cheating something \"okay,\" a lot of energy is put into making Darcy really off-putting and Rachel really kind of pathetic. I liked Hilary and Ethan a lot (though in all other chick lit books Ethan would have been either gay or the guy Rachel actually ended up with), but the central relationships just left me cold. Eh. Apparently I c It wasn't bad as chicklit goes, but I don't know how sympathetic I can be to characters who are betraying their fiancees and best friends. Plus, in order to make the cheating something \"okay,\" a lot of energy is put into making Darcy really off-putting and Rachel really kind of pathetic. I liked Hilary and Ethan a lot (though in all other chick lit books Ethan would have been either gay or the guy Rachel actually ended up with), but the central relationships just left me cold. Eh. Apparently I can't get behind cheating and being rewarded for it. Who knew I was so morally inflexible? I'd like to read one of her other books, because I did enjoy the writing and her handle on some of the main things I look for in chick lit -- fast-track career, portrait of the city, circle of friends, consumerism, etc. ...<---F>more GR Giveaway</---F>. Ok, I tried. I am not going to read this tripe any further. From the first 50-ish pages that I did read, this books sounds somewhat like the show 'Sex and the City'. Rachel is part-Miranada - a not so good looking lawyer, and part-Charolette - miss goody two shoes who wants to find a husband and settle down. Darcy is part-Samantha, part-Carrie, she has good looks and has always managed to make the guy she liked fall for her and is now engaged to a guy she wants to marry. And just like GR Giveaway. Ok, I tried. I am not going to read this tripe any further. From the first 50-ish pages that I did read, this books sounds somewhat like the show 'Sex and the City'. Rachel is part-Miranada - a not so good looking lawyer, and part-Charolette - miss goody two shoes who wants to find a husband and settle down. Darcy is part-Samantha, part-Carrie, she has good looks and has always managed to make the guy she liked fall for her and is now engaged to a guy she wants to marry. And just like the show, these two 30-yr. old women can't think or talk about anything beyond dating and men. Both the main characters are annoying. Darcy is a shallow self-serving bitch and Rachel lacks a backbone. They have been best-friends since childhood. But their friendship doesn't seem credible at all. Darcy is self-centered and insensitive and has been running all over Rachel forever. Rachel has an inferiority complex and is jealous of her so-called best friend's charmed life....to them a good life being defined by the number of boyfriends they have had. I don't see why the two are friends at all. And Rachel is trying to use this jealousy as a reason to justify sleeping with her best friend's fiancee... Ugh! I finally put the book down at a point where Rachel is talking about how she had begun to dislike her boyfriend in college because he was rooting for Duke's basketball team and not Indiana. And the writing is really nothing worth mentioning. The book also contains a page suggesting questions for discussion, it seems the publishers expect the readers to ponder over this subject matter after reading the book...yeah, right!! ...more Well, this was my first, and now probably last, foray into \"chick-lit.\" I found the characters to be totally unbelieveable. A \"consummate good-girl\" would never have an affair with her best friend's fiancee, despite Darcy's shortcomings as a friend. Some feel Rachel's behavior was justified because of Darcy's litany of slights, pulled from as far back as 5th grade. However that Rachel remained Darcy's friend in spite of her bitchiness, just proves Rachel's own weakness of character. And it was t Well, this was my first, and now probably last, foray into \"chick-lit.\" I found the characters to be totally unbelieveable. A \"consummate good-girl\" would never have an affair with her best friend's fiancee, despite Darcy's shortcomings as a friend. Some feel Rachel's behavior was justified because of Darcy's litany of slights, pulled from as far back as 5th grade. However that Rachel remained Darcy's friend in spite of her bitchiness, just proves Rachel's own weakness of character. And it was totally contra to her so-called good-girl persona. Could she not find any real friends? Even after growing up and living apart from Darcy for several years during college? Far from being a modern heroine, I found Rachel weak, immoral, flat, and lifeless; totally not a person to root for. ...more I loved this book and have passed it on to other friends! Thanks to Kristi for turning me on to this author. This is one of the best chick-lit books ever. The follow-up \"Something Blue\" was almost as good. The story focuses on two lifelong best friends, Rachel and Darcy. The first installment is told from Rachel's perspective; the second book is told from Darcy's perspective. Very clever. Rachel is the single, plain, thirtysomething, always a responsible good girl attorney. Something I can totall I loved this book and have passed it on to other friends! Thanks to Kristi for turning me on to this author. This is one of the best chick-lit books ever. The follow-up \"Something Blue\" was almost as good. The story focuses on two lifelong best friends, Rachel and Darcy. The first installment is told from Rachel's perspective; the second book is told from Darcy's perspective. Very clever. Rachel is the single, plain, thirtysomething, always a responsible good girl attorney. Something I can totally relate to except for the lawyer part! LOL. Darcy is the exact opposite - she is the outgoing, popular, pretty girl who is engaged to Dex. As the story unfolds, we learn that Rachel has known Dex since law school and has been in love with him for quite some time. And as luck would have it, Dex confesses his feelings for Rachel even though he is engaged to Darcy. Normally one might frown on such an affair, but Rachel's character is one that most of us can relate to and I for one was sympathetic. Rachel does suffer some immense feelings of guilt, but also learns a lot about herself, her history, and her friendship with Darcy. ...more So here's my take on <+++>Something Borrowed</+++>, and \"Chic-lit\" in general - it's satisfying in the way watching an episode of The Hills is satisfying. You know EXACTLY what's going to happen from the first lines of the first chapter (which i guess can be nice since it makes you feel smart and gives a general sense of superiority); the characters are predictable, with a \"heroine\" that's just likable enough to continue reading but who you generally dislike/never fully sympathize with; it's pretty much so So here's my take on <+++>Something Borrowed</+++>, and \"Chic-lit\" in general - it's satisfying in the way watching an episode of The Hills is satisfying. You know EXACTLY what's going to happen from the first lines of the first chapter (which i guess can be nice since it makes you feel smart and gives a general sense of superiority); the characters are predictable, with a \"heroine\" that's just likable enough to continue reading but who you generally dislike/never fully sympathize with; it's pretty much something to read when you don't want to have to think. At all. The definition of beach reading. I think this book is great to read on vacation, but other than that I thought it was crap. I mean seriously, is there REALLY a debate over whether or not Rachel did the right thing??? The author sets up the story in a way so that it's impossible to sympathize or side with Darcy, who is such an uber-bitch that it nullifies any debate whatsoever over whether or not Rachel and Dex were in the right. One of those, \"she's getting what she deserves\" situations. Instead of turning this potentially-highly dramatic situation into a truly interesting discussion over morals, values, and a debate over what's right and wrong, the decision is already made for us by bland, predictable, one-sided characters and situations. I guess when it comes down to it I'd rather watch garbage tv than read a garbage book. ...more I read this book in two sittings. I know it is a little controversial: some people adore Rachel for 'stealing' her best friend Darcy's fiance. And some others think it is just immoral. Here goes my opinion. Rachel, who is a passive thirty years old woman, has lived in Darcy's shadow all her life. Darcy stole her first love Ethan (who now becomes Rach's best friend), her Notre Dame acceptance, her pride and even Rachel's own mother's sympathy. Darcy is not that evil, actually, she is self centered I read this book in two sittings. I know it is a little controversial: some people adore Rachel for 'stealing' her best friend Darcy's fiance. And some others think it is just immoral. Here goes my opinion. Rachel, who is a passive thirty years old woman, has lived in Darcy's shadow all her life. Darcy stole her first love Ethan (who now becomes Rach's best friend), her Notre Dame acceptance, her pride and even Rachel's own mother's sympathy. Darcy is not that evil, actually, she is self centered. Sometimes I really like Darcy for being so perfect. Sometimes I hate her for being so annoying. The truth is, all characters are flawed and personally, not likeable. However, they are all original and real, that's why I give 4 stars for this book. it is hard for an author to create a character that is not so adorable but real and nice to read. My favorite is <---C>Hillary</---C> and Ethan (I can picture Stanley Tucci acting as Ethan if this were made into a movie). Then there is this perfect (but not so perfect then) Dex Thaler. Dex is the handsome, patient, smart guy who is all perfect for Rachel. Only he never decides whether he wants Rachel or Darcy until the very end. Rachel herself is not a character I sympathize with. She is passive, she does not know what she wants, and she cannot stand up for herself. It is actually quite annoying to know that everything that happens to her is not all Darcy's selfish fault. It is her fault too, for not defending herself. However, I like the book! I like how the author creates twists and makes the story believable and in the end I'm happy for everyone :) bravo. Good Christmas read! ...more Despite all my protests and misgivings about a book on infidelity, I was surprised that had the urge to get back to the story and find out what happened. For that, I wanted to give the book 4 stars, but I just couldn't because, well, it's a book about infidelity, and not just about infidelity, but the view point that there's nothing wrong with it since the couple isn't married yet. The book starts with A LOT of backstory. It's eventually important to Rachel and Darcy's relationship, but it sure m Despite all my protests and misgivings about a book on infidelity, I was surprised that had the urge to get back to the story and find out what happened. For that, I wanted to give the book 4 stars, but I just couldn't because, well, it's a book about infidelity, and not just about infidelity, but the view point that there's nothing wrong with it since the couple isn't married yet. The book starts with A LOT of backstory. It's eventually important to Rachel and Darcy's relationship, but it sure makes the beginning drag. What I wanted from that opening scene was not memories of Rachel and Darcy as kids. I wanted to be pulled into the scene and believe the sequence of events that ended with a girl in bed with her best friend's fiancee. I needed more to get me there. The lawyer-presenting-to-the-jury bit afterwards was amusing, but it didn't get me into her head to justify how it happened. I needed more to sympathize with Rachel. Maybe what I needed to sympathize with her more was a reason Dex was worth risking a friendship over. All I got from Rachel were some vague stereotypes that he was handsome and smart. Even in the scenes he was in, I didn't get any personality from him. He was like a fuzzy character in a dream that never quite materializes into a real person. I had to take Rachel's word for it every time she said she loved him because I didn't get anything out of their relationship. When Ethan asked Rachel if she was only interested in Dex so she could win something over Darcy, I thought that must be it. I'm still not convinced that isn't true. In the end I had a hollow feeling, and it wasn't just at the things lost. It was that I still didn't know Dex and didn't know if he was worth it to either girl. It made the ending mean a whole lot less to me. The whole book I kept trying to get inside Dex's head to figure out why he was cheating, why he wouldn't make a decision, why he stayed with Darcy, why he kept leading Rachel on, why he did anything, but I couldn't pin down Dex's motivation. While it bothered me to have such a pivotal character so undefined, it kind of worked to keep up the suspense. I had no idea if he liked Darcy or Rachel, if he was using Rachel or Darcy, if he was conflicted about this whole thing or a player, or if he was going to pull some twist in the whole drama. Darcy was supposed to be the volatile unknown, but I almost think Dex was more of one. In the end, I don't think the story is as much about the love triangle as it is about friendship. The complexity of childhood-turned-adult friendship was very well done and I even though I wanted to strangle Darcy, I could see why Rachel had remained friends with her. Interesting that the character who moved in to late to reach best friend status (who was also so passive) was named Annalise. I don't know what that's like at all (read: sarcasm). I had trouble with the route and justifications and conclusions that the romance took, but looking at the story as a journey of two friends, I liked it a whole lot more. ETA: I liked the movie. Dex was still a cardboard, but I could see better what Rachel saw in him and how he was conflicted. John Kransinski stole the show. ...more You guys. I had EXTREMELY low expectations for this book and it totally blew me away. I've been avoiding this series for years because I thought it was just gonna be some lame ass, cheesy chick-lit, but MAN. I reeeeaaaaally liked this. Getting the next book from my library tonight because I *NEED* it. You WANT to hate the main character - I mean, she's not only hooking up with an engaged man, but it's her best friend's fiance - but, Griffin did an amazing job of making Rachel someone you rooted for. So, congrats on that! This was a great beach read. Quick and quirky. Oh, so this is how it sounds inside the heads of people who can rationalize anything. ?????? I don't understand the rave reviews. How is this a good story? Was Rachael supposed to be the one I was rooting for in this scenario? 'Cause I didn't like her. She was BORING . Rachael was a whiner who played it safe, then blamed her friend for all of the things that she didn't have. Yes, Darcy was a self-centered friend. So what?! If you don't like the way she treats you... stop returning her calls ! And Dex? Ugh. He was a cheater. C-H-E-A-T-E-R! There is no other way to put it. I can unders ?????? I don't understand the rave reviews. How is this a good story? Was Rachael supposed to be the one I was rooting for in this scenario? 'Cause I didn't like her. She was BORING . Rachael was a whiner who played it safe, then blamed her friend for all of the things that she didn't have. Yes, Darcy was a self-centered friend. So what?! If you don't like the way she treats you... stop returning her calls ! And Dex? Ugh. He was a cheater. C-H-E-A-T-E-R! There is no other way to put it. I can understand how if they had always felt something for each other, that they could have fallen into one others' arms in the heat of the moment. That's forgivable. Carrying on an affair for months before Darcy and Dex's wedding? Really? Why didn't Dex just call off the wedding as soon as he knew it wasn't just a drunken one night stand? How could he continue to live with Darcy, and see her best friend on the side?! What an enormous asshole! Ok. In fairness, it turned out that Darcy was also cheating on him with a guy that Rachael had had a few dates with, but that doesn't make what Dex and Rachael did right. I couldn't muster up any sympathy for either of them. I honestly thought Rachael would have been better off without him, but at the same time I kind of thought that they deserved each other. Maybe I wasn't supposed to like them? Maybe the point of the story was that nobody is perfect? That life and love is messy? *shrugs* Ok. Awesome. Maybe I just don't get chick-lit? ...more This is my absolute favourite in chick lit. The characters are very well written and real. And you can't help but to feel for the main girl. She may be sleeping with her best friend's fianc\u00e9. But that doesn't mean that she's completely cruel and doesn't deserve the other girl's friendship. Or your own. The way the author retells the girl's background. How they interacted as they grew up. And how one always used the other as a measuring stick for everything she did back then and still does. You c This is my absolute favourite in chick lit. The characters are very well written and real. And you can't help but to feel for the main girl. She may be sleeping with her best friend's fianc\u00e9. But that doesn't mean that she's completely cruel and doesn't deserve the other girl's friendship. Or your own. The way the author retells the girl's background. How they interacted as they grew up. And how one always used the other as a measuring stick for everything she did back then and still does. You come to realize that this friendship is not as good as it could be. They are both not true to themselves and that makes them lie to each other. And it gives the main girl a green light to follow her heart and go for the guy she should have gone for. Had she not found herself not worthy of him back in college when they met and he already liked her. But she figured her friend was more appropriate for him and matched them together. I could relate to the girl and how she felt. She was now 30 and her friend was still 29. Lots of girls know how it is to feel like the underdog. Most of us have had bad girlfriends from hell. People change, friends change. We wish for everything to stay the same. But sometimes you can't fix things 20 years later when the real trouble started 20 years ago. I really recommend this book to anyone who likes chick lit with real heart. Because this book has it. ...more LOVE this book. Read it twice because I loved it so much. I am against cheating (who isn't), especially with your best friend's man butttttt this made me cheer for the main character who was having an affair with her best friend's man. How could you not love Rachel? I was able to relate to her when I thought I was going to hate her. This made me tear up and laugh and wish I was friends with Rachel (even with her flaw). I recommend reading this on a rainy night (with a glass of wine or the whole LOVE this book. Read it twice because I loved it so much. I am against cheating (who isn't), especially with your best friend's man butttttt this made me cheer for the main character who was having an affair with her best friend's man. How could you not love Rachel? I was able to relate to her when I thought I was going to hate her. This made me tear up and laugh and wish I was friends with Rachel (even with her flaw). I recommend reading this on a rainy night (with a glass of wine or the whole bottle). You won't be able to stop reading it and then won't be able to stop talking about it (like me). Then I will be able to welcome you to the <---A>Emily Giffin</---A> fan club (this book made me want to read her others). ...more This book is the reason I haven't won a giveaway on here for over three years. *shakes fist* I never read it so I've never won another giveaway and now I probably will never win one again in the future. I won this from Goodreads in one of the first giveaways I entered, back in 2009, I believe. I think they gave away over 1000 copies of this book, or something around that? Since then I've realized that unless you read the books they send you you're probably not going to win another giveaway. Oh we This book is the reason I haven't won a giveaway on here for over three years. *shakes fist* I never read it so I've never won another giveaway and now I probably will never win one again in the future. I won this from Goodreads in one of the first giveaways I entered, back in 2009, I believe. I think they gave away over 1000 copies of this book, or something around that? Since then I've realized that unless you read the books they send you you're probably not going to win another giveaway. Oh well, I have thousands of books to read. I wish I hadn't entered to win this book though, because even though it's pink, I really don't like chick-lit. It has pretty good reviews and I have friends who liked it so there was always a chance that even though it wasn't my favorite genre I might have found something about it to like. I was probably going to read this someday, mostly just because GR gave it to me to read, but not anymore. So I've got this free book that I'll NEVER read , even though I was going to give it a fair shot. I don't expect this to count as \"reviewing\" this book just so I could maybe start winning giveaways, but that doesn't mean I still didn't have something to say. ...more Well, I just watched the movie by chance yesterday, I liked it.. Darcy \"perfectly portrayed by Kate Hudson\" is really interesting character, and her friendship with Rachel is complicated and remarkable. Then I wanted more, I find this book sample; Then I reached my twenties. And the early twenties did seem to last forever. When I heard acquaintances a few years older lament the end of their youth, I felt smug, not yet in the danger zone myself. I had plenty of time. Until about age twenty-seven, w Well, I just watched the movie by chance yesterday, I liked it.. Darcy \"perfectly portrayed by Kate Hudson\" is really interesting character, and her friendship with Rachel is complicated and remarkable. Then I wanted more, I find this book sample; Then I reached my twenties. And the early twenties did seem to last forever. When I heard acquaintances a few years older lament the end of their youth, I felt smug, not yet in the danger zone myself. I had plenty of time. Until about age twenty-seven, when the days of being carded were long gone and I began to marvel at the sudden acceleration of years (reminding myself of my mother's annual monologue as she pulled out our Christmas decorations) and the accompanying lines and stray gray hairs. At twenty-nine the real dread set in, and I realized that in a lot of ways I might as well be thirty. But not quite. Because I could still say that I was in my twenties. I still had something in common with college seniors. Actually the whole first chapter caught my attention. I'm not -At All- into reading Chick Lit, - but I just loved how d**k Darcy is :) ! - but I enjoyed many movies of the gener. Well, the sample really amazing.. but my friends who read it did u liked it enough? Do u think it's suitable for male readers too, who..above thirty :( I realize thirty is just a number, that you're only as old as you feel and all of that. I also realize that in the grand scheme of things, thirty is still young. But it's not that young. It is past the most ripe, prime child-bearing years, for example. It is too old to, say, start training for an Olympic medal. really this part of the novel I loved. I don't know but I really considering it. ...more \u2605 Something Borrowed is the first installment in Emily Giffin 's chick-lit series titled: Darcy & Rachel. I have just discovered Ms. Giffin , and while I loved the first book I read that was written by her, I have to admit, I didn't love this one so much. The writing style remains fun and light, but I hated the characters. I guess I just hated that the main characters' romance was based on such deceit and yet it ended in a HEA. That is a pet peeve of mine in novels and it always leaves a sour t \u2605\u00bd Something Borrowed is the first installment in Emily Giffin 's chick-lit series titled: Darcy & Rachel. I have just discovered Ms. Giffin , and while I loved the first book I read that was written by her, I have to admit, I didn't love this one so much. The writing style remains fun and light, but I hated the characters. I guess I just hated that the main characters' romance was based on such deceit and yet it ended in a HEA. That is a pet peeve of mine in novels and it always leaves a sour taste in my mouth, not to mention a WTF? look on my face. If this had been the first Emily Giffin book I read, I may very well have not read any others. However, that wasn't the case so this experience doesn't change my interest in Ms. Giffin . However, I would not re-read this particular book, nor would I recommend it to others. I don't plan to continue the series. ...more Rachel falls for her best friend's fiance during her 30th birthday party. The fiance, Dex, returns Rachel's amorous feelings. Rachel and Dex went to law school together and Rachel introduced Dex to her best friend. Meanwhile, Darcy, the best friend, remains clueless and engrossed in wedding planning. Emily Giffin, the author, paints Darcy as the villian (she's self-centered and shallow), especially when *spoiler* Darcy comes over to Rachel's apartment to tell her the wedding is off (the week bef Rachel falls for her best friend's fiance during her 30th birthday party. The fiance, Dex, returns Rachel's amorous feelings. Rachel and Dex went to law school together and Rachel introduced Dex to her best friend. Meanwhile, Darcy, the best friend, remains clueless and engrossed in wedding planning. Emily Giffin, the author, paints Darcy as the villian (she's self-centered and shallow), especially when *spoiler* Darcy comes over to Rachel's apartment to tell her the wedding is off (the week before it's supposed to happen). Darcy reveals that she has also been having an affair with one of the groomsmen and is now pregnant. But I still can't completely get behind Rachel and Dex's relationship. I understand that they did not want to hurt Darcy's feelings, but hooking up behind your best friend/fiancee's back is not the way to go about things--call off the wedding already!! Darcy would probably have still been upset that her best friend stole her man, but it probably would have been less underhanded and painful for all involved. ...more I spent the better part of the day reading this book, all 300 some odd pages, and was utterly disappointed by it. Granted, I don't harbor any ill will towards chick-lit books, but what started off as a mildly interesting story dwindled into a spiraling trainwreck of deception and haphazard emotions between flat and stereotypical characters. I'll briefly summarize the main point of the story: Rachel, a seemingly good-natured lawyer in her 30s ends up sleeping with the fianc\u00e9 of her best friend af I spent the better part of the day reading this book, all 300 some odd pages, and was utterly disappointed by it. Granted, I don't harbor any ill will towards chick-lit books, but what started off as a mildly interesting story dwindled into a spiraling trainwreck of deception and haphazard emotions between flat and stereotypical characters. I'll briefly summarize the main point of the story: Rachel, a seemingly good-natured lawyer in her 30s ends up sleeping with the fianc\u00e9 of her best friend after a drunken night. Cloaked with guilt, she realizes that she has a growing attraction to Dex, the fianc\u00e9, whom she initially introduced to Darcy, her best friend. Darcy is villainized as the best friend who has not only stolen previous boyfriends and opportunities for Rachel, but continues to intrude upon Rachel's life in the months preparing for the wedding. I'm sorry, but I don't buy completely villainizing someone who's supposed to be a best friend at the perspective of a woman (Rachel) who seems just as needy and flawed as the character she complains about. I also never had a true sense of attraction noted between Darcy and Dex or Dex and Rachel other than some of the intimate moments between the latter two (which, admittedly, were well written in spurts). By the end, there really any sense of satisfaction or justice for any of the characters except for a predictable ending, and even in that, one could argue that if that weren't the point, there's not a sense that the scheme of events had any realism to them - it played out like a forced soap opera. I disliked Darcy about as much as I disliked Dex and Rachel, the latter the protagonist and the perspective in which this story is written. It's confounding when you have most of the main characters involved in cheating relationships with ill treatment of how heavy of an issue it is, and then trying to justify the cheating relationship because it's true love? No, that's quite farfetched even if you extract the scheme of events transpiring in this story. This book trivialized the issue to the point of oblivion and tried to pass it off in a feel good way. The one merit I will give this story is that Giffin did start this book with some well written backstory and reflection upon the characters, but at the same time, that quality doesn't hold water through the rest of the book, and the conflict drags on for more than it really had to. I don't normally harp on literature as much as I do with this, but I have to say it really wasn't that good in its overall quality, and I don't think I'd choose to read it again. There were parts of it that I liked, but not enough to make me say that I'd hold much value for it in recommendations. I may read the sequel just to see what it offers, but my impressions of this story individually aren't in the highest light. Overall score: 1.5/5 ...more I always wanted to read this book and I had no idea there would be a movie about it (other way I would have read it sooner), now I feel like a total loser because I watched the movie accidentally as I had no idea it would be about this book! Loved it but I can't read this book now because I know what will happen. I will be reading book 2 right away though because I just need to know what will happen to Darcy. What a great movie ! So hot! Loved all the actors they chose to play the characters from I always wanted to read this book and I had no idea there would be a movie about it (other way I would have read it sooner), now I feel like a total loser because I watched the movie accidentally as I had no idea it would be about this book! Loved it but I can't read this book now because I know what will happen. I will be reading book 2 right away though because I just need to know what will happen to Darcy. What a great movie ! So hot! Loved all the actors they chose to play the characters from this book. ...more I picked up this book thinking it would be a fun way to unwind from midterms, all snuggled up under my covers reading something that doesn't require that much thinking and is cute. Well I was wrong. The story is about two friends who have known each other their whole lives. The protagonist,Rachel,is a colorless, empty of any trace of personality sorry excuse of a woman and the best friend,Darcy, is a high-school movie bitch, meaning she's gorgeous, rich and selfish. The base of the story is that R I picked up this book thinking it would be a fun way to unwind from midterms, all snuggled up under my covers reading something that doesn't require that much thinking and is cute. Well I was wrong. The story is about two friends who have known each other their whole lives. The protagonist,Rachel,is a colorless, empty of any trace of personality sorry excuse of a woman and the best friend,Darcy, is a high-school movie bitch, meaning she's gorgeous, rich and selfish. The base of the story is that Rachel sleeps with Darcy's fiance and then tries to find an excuse for herself saying that Darcy was always kind of a bitch to her, getting the same backpack with her in elementary school and looking better in a black bikini, and anyway she saw the guy first! It seems to me that the writer wanted us to hate darcy a little too desperately. Conclusion : What a complete waste of time. this book is horrible. stay away! ...more This was the first book by Emily Giffin that I read (also her first one), and she immediately became one of my favorite authors. Her books can be defined as chick-lit, but they all have a slightly more serious tone. They maintain an easy style, but they also pose serious questions along the line. The thing I like the most about Giffin is the tension and suspense she\u2019s able to pour into her books (most of them). Something Borrowed is the story of two best friends Darcy and Rachel. As all best friend This was the first book by Emily Giffin that I read (also her first one), and she immediately became one of my favorite authors. Her books can be defined as chick-lit, but they all have a slightly more serious tone. They maintain an easy style, but they also pose serious questions along the line. The thing I like the most about Giffin is the tension and suspense she\u2019s able to pour into her books (most of them). Something Borrowed is the story of two best friends Darcy and Rachel. As all best friends they love each other, they\u2019re jealous of each other, they try to support one another, but they have an innate rivalry between them. And when you put guys into the mix, well the plot just becomes explosive. This book is about love, friendship, betrayal, secrets, lies, and life-changing decisions. Have you ever fought with your best friend over a guy? This book portrays the feelings so well that I wonder if Emily ever experienced it herself. I\u2019ve read many reviews arguing the book is not good because you have cheating and friends betraying each other\u2026 Reading a book about complicated emotions and situations doesn\u2019t mean you approve of them, otherwise we would never be able to read or watch anything. But if cheating really isn\u2019t your cup of tea, then definitely steer clear of this book. ...more This is a predictable read. I probably would have liked it more when I was younger. I have less patience for the characters behavior now. It's a quick read. Rachel lives in the shadow of her best friend Darcy and has a pretty weak personality so far. She seems to resent her friend and yet, they both take each other for granted. Rachel doesn't seem to have confidence in herself and reacts to situations instead of acting on what she wants. Dex, Mr. Perfect, is also pretty weak. Why didn't he ask R This is a predictable read. I probably would have liked it more when I was younger. I have less patience for the characters behavior now. It's a quick read. Rachel lives in the shadow of her best friend Darcy and has a pretty weak personality so far. She seems to resent her friend and yet, they both take each other for granted. Rachel doesn't seem to have confidence in herself and reacts to situations instead of acting on what she wants. Dex, Mr. Perfect, is also pretty weak. Why didn't he ask Rachel out on a date when they were both single? ...more Unlike a lot of \"chick-lit\", this one was semi-believable and I actually liked the main character (Rachel). She was a smart girl, not all obsessed with shopping and spending money...she just seemed like a normal person, someone I might hang out with. Darcy, on the other hand...irritated me SO bad (probably because the story was written from Rachel's point-of-view and you could see as the story went on how badly she was treated by Darcy). I liked that it got into the plot immediately, and it kept Unlike a lot of \"chick-lit\", this one was semi-believable and I actually liked the main character (Rachel). She was a smart girl, not all obsessed with shopping and spending money...she just seemed like a normal person, someone I might hang out with. Darcy, on the other hand...irritated me SO bad (probably because the story was written from Rachel's point-of-view and you could see as the story went on how badly she was treated by Darcy). I liked that it got into the plot immediately, and it kept me interested. I'm looking forward to reading the sequel from Darcy's point-of-view soon! ...more Sorry, I think this is just not my kinda book. To me, it just seemed like a story about a crappy group of friends who did a shitload of crappy things to each other. I didn\u2019t really like any of the characters except for Ethan and Hillary. On the plus side, the writing is engaging and I found it to be a quick and easy read. I have mixed feelings about this one. I loved and hated Rachel. I had seen the movie first though, and the book surprised me, the good kind of surprise. It was a good book and the characters had more depth than the the characters in the movie (obviously). A good fluffy book. <3 Jesus, this book looks terrible. It's like Seinfeld, the chick-lit novel: watch and laugh as a cast of selfish assholes blunder through life. Ok, so this book was EXTREMELY out of character for me to read. I'm usually such a jerk about \"chick lit\" books - I even find the genre's title to be insulting to women somehow - and I almost never read them. But there's something about just having graduated and having spent the whole year reading 17th Century drama and political tracts that just makes me much more open minded to reading something fun and easy and enjoyable. (You don't even want to know what kind of TV this attitude has me watch Ok, so this book was EXTREMELY out of character for me to read. I'm usually such a jerk about \"chick lit\" books - I even find the genre's title to be insulting to women somehow - and I almost never read them. But there's something about just having graduated and having spent the whole year reading 17th Century drama and political tracts that just makes me much more open minded to reading something fun and easy and enjoyable. (You don't even want to know what kind of TV this attitude has me watching). So I picked up \"Something Borrowed\" because it seemed like a lot of people were enjoying it and it's sort of a big deal right now but honestly was really let down, even with low expectations. The story is basically about a lawyer in New York City (who still lives in a studio, albeit on the Upper West Side, which is definitely surprising considering the average salary of most NYC lawyers) who falls for her best girl friend's fianc\u00e9 (whom she knew first at law school). The story basically follows their initial drunken night together and how they deal with it and whether they get together or not. So this is basic \"chick lit\" stuff but it definitely fell flat. It's a super quick read mostly because not much happens. There are no other plotlines other than their \"affair\" and I spent the entire book rooting for the protagonist and wishing she would just forget her awful best friend and run away with her fianc\u00e9 sooner rather than later. The best friend is described as self-involved, shallow and generally manipulative and obnoxious so you have absolutely no sympathy for her (other than some half-hearted attempts on the part of the author to make all those terrible traits seem like an understandable result of the friend's insecurities). Since the book is now part of a trilogy, it makes sense that the ending is as unresolved as it is, but if you're not planning on reading the others, it only makes the book feel unresolved and uninteresting. The writing was intelligent enough but not snappy or compelling and I mostly felt like I knew everything that was going to happen next and wasn't even enjoying the ride. So, it's \"ok\" but I was really struggling to give it that second star. ...more I would seriously have to give this book 0 stars. I am fan of light-hearted chick lit as much as the next person...but for real, their 'song' in the book is 'thunder road.' i found this book aggravating, the character pathetic and way way too passive - she does even make a move for the guy she wants, she waits for him to come to her, and the plot dull. the only exciting part was her shallow friend. and if you dislike a person that much why are you hanging around with them for 25 years? i got all I would seriously have to give this book 0 stars. I am fan of light-hearted chick lit as much as the next person...but for real, their 'song' in the book is 'thunder road.' i found this book aggravating, the character pathetic and way way too passive - she does even make a move for the guy she wants, she waits for him to come to her, and the plot dull. the only exciting part was her shallow friend. and if you dislike a person that much why are you hanging around with them for 25 years? i got all three of emily giffin's book out of the library at once, thinking that they'd be somewhere around bergdorf blondes , however, i was very much mistaken. i do not think she has anything to offer as a writer, other than choosing cute, eye-catching pastel covers that fool the likes of me. the stories are frustrating, boring, and monotonous. i dont even want to have this book on my book list, but i have to get my feelings about it off my chest. this would never happen in real life. people like rachel who just wait for things to happen to them never get anything. shes a 30 year old attorney who is afraid to break it off with her childhood friend whom she secretly despises? then she deserves to be alone, end of story. i hope i never find myself relating to this character. ...more 2nd Reread - In theory, I shouldn't really like this book. It's about a girl falling in love with her best friend's fianc\u00e9 but as the book progresses you find out that the girls don't really have a healthy friendship, they're just holding onto a friendship that is way past its expiry date. I feel like Emily Giffin uses that unhealthy relationship as a platform for the readers to be like \"yes, Rachel steals Darcy's fianc\u00e9 and that's bad BUT Darcy is a crap friend and so it's not THAT bad\". It is 2nd Reread - In theory, I shouldn't really like this book. It's about a girl falling in love with her best friend's fianc\u00e9 but as the book progresses you find out that the girls don't really have a healthy friendship, they're just holding onto a friendship that is way past its expiry date. I feel like Emily Giffin uses that unhealthy relationship as a platform for the readers to be like \"yes, Rachel steals Darcy's fianc\u00e9 and that's bad BUT Darcy is a crap friend and so it's not THAT bad\". It is bad, end of. There is no justification for having an affair with someone's fianc\u00e9. Plus I didn't think Rachel was that great to begin with. The love between Dex and Rachel was so problematic too, I won't even get into it. So I shouldn't like the book but I do. Partly because it was one of the first few books I read that made me love reading and reading it again, brought back all those feelings of being in love with reading for the first time as an adult. Plus the book isn't bad. It's quite entertaining, it's well-written and Emily Giffin writes characters you can relate to. They're very relatable and that makes them kind of likeable. This book was very easy to read which I love too. I would recommend this. ...more", "Title": "Something Borrowed"},
