{"Comments": "(Full essay can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) (Just like anyone else who is a lover of great books, I find myself sometimes with a desire to become a \"completist\" of certain authors; that is, to have read every book that author has ever written. This new series of essays chronicles that attempt.) So first,<---M> a confession</---M>, that I still have a long way to go before becoming a completist of author TC Boyle; this is only the second novel of his I've re (Full essay can be found at the Chicago Center for Literature and Photography [cclapcenter.com].) (Just like anyone else who is a lover of great books, I find myself sometimes with a desire to become a \"completist\" of certain authors; that is, to have read every book that author has ever written. This new series of essays chronicles that attempt.) So first, a confession, that I still have a long way to go before becoming a completist of author TC Boyle; this is only the second novel of his I've read, to tell you the truth, the other one being The Road to Wellville , possibly his most famous because of the 1994 movie version starring Anthony Hopkins, Matthew Broderick, Bridget Fonda, John Cusack and more. Oh, but what a novel! Who knew that a contemporary author could paint such a vivid picture of events that happened nearly a century ago -- in this case, the formation of the various health spas in the upper Midwest at the turn of the 20th century, which for those who don't know were the groups who accidentally invented our modern breakfast cereals? In fact, this is one of the things that Boyle is most known for as an author; for his meticulous and exacting research into whatever time period he is writing about, and whatever crazy events were happening during that time period. Now combine this with Boyle's ability to effortlessly jump between comedy and drama, his masterful touch as a story plotter, and a personal writing style that is both unique and never manages to call attention to itself, and you've got yourself one very admired and award-winning novelist indeed. And of the eleven novels that Boyle has now written, arguably one of his best-known ones is 2003's <+++>Drop City</+++> , mostly because it's about the American hippie movement of the 1960s and '70s, of which Boyle was a part of himself in his own youth (having gotten his Bachelor's degree in 1968, for those who don't know). And yes, just like Wellville , this novel also features a semi-wacky concept to propel the story forward; in this case, it's about a group of young people who start their own \"free love\" commune at the end of the '60s (the aforementioned <+++>Drop City</+++>), which gets its start in California after founding member Norm inherits a large chunk of land from a recently expired relative. And yes, just like Wellville , Boyle uses this semi-wacky concept for both humorous and dramatic purposes; to sometimes viciously make fun of how unequipped most of these idealistic flower children are to actually \"live off the land,\" while still legitimately admiring their desire to do such a thing, and arguing why such a desire is ultimately a good thing that all of us should at least partly aspire to. And of course, this being Boyle, the fun doesn't stop there; about halfway through the book, in fact, the residents of Drop City get tired of all the hassles of being in California (the constant police harassment, the endless hippie mooches), and decide on a whim to move to Alaska instead, where Norm has access to yet more land owned by a relative, a grizzled fur-trapper uncle who has recently retired and moved to Seattle. And thus does Boyle get the chance to expand the story even further, by introducing the existing population of that small Alaskan town as characters themselves, and by hopping back and forth between the two groups' storylines until the moment the hippies actually get to Alaska and the plots suddenly merge.<---F> In fact</---F>... ...more This book is fuelled by flower power. Sadly I prefer books which are run on rocket fuel so this one did not deliver enough blast for my buck. This is the third TC Boyle book I've read and although I keep meandering back for more, I'm still yet to understand why. Two tales make up the central thread of Drop City. Like two parallel spinal cords they prop up the floppy central core of the book. The first spine is the flacid, soaked in acid, hippy fuelled hurrah of Drop City. Most of the people resi This book is fuelled by flower power. Sadly I prefer books which are run on rocket fuel so this one did not deliver enough blast for my buck. This is the third TC Boyle book I've read and although I keep meandering back for more, I'm still yet to understand why. Two tales make up the central thread of Drop City. Like two parallel spinal cords they prop up the floppy central core of the book. The first spine is the flacid, soaked in acid, hippy fuelled hurrah of Drop City. Most of the people residing in the collection of yurts, tree houses, flop houses and tents are a fairly reprehensible group of individuals who have a mild work allergy and are so lazy they're happy to live in a green and pleasant land surrounded by their own chickpea laden bowel eruptions. People.... When you are content to camp in fields of your own shit it is probably time to have a little word with yourselves. By stark contrast, the second spinal cord propping up the book is one of ice and iron. The residents of Boynton, Alaska are survivalist, self sufficient and living off the skinny of the land. Alaska has very little fat. Life is hard and if you can catch it then you can stew it, eat it or wear it. Those who choose to live along the 30 mile river are spikier than snow shoes and harder than a frozen sliver of moose jerky. You know at some point the peace and love lives of the dippy hippies of Drop City are going to collide, entwine, enmesh and embed in the peace (but a lot less love) filled lives of the trappers, hunters and self sufficient men on the 30 mile but it is just a matter of waiting and maybe tie-dying a few t-shirts until the story ponderously climaxes. The two parallel tales finally collide where and when you might imagine and hippy v trapper hijinx ensue. The hippies generally come out of it all looking half arsed, self absorbed and clueless. Kind of inexplicable, kind of predictable but still kind of readable. ...more The collapse of the sixties free love movement is perhaps the greatest defeat Western society has endured. The flower children believed in a world unshackled to government control and white-collar slavery, they believed in an autonomous collective of free love, drugs and sex. By listening to the Doors and smoking hash in Californian tepees, they hoped to bring about a social revolution, to overthrow the squares by doing nothing whatsoever. Then again, they only believed in this because their bou The collapse of the sixties free love movement is perhaps the greatest defeat Western society has endured. The flower children believed in a world unshackled to government control and white-collar slavery, they believed in an autonomous collective of free love, drugs and sex. By listening to the Doors and smoking hash in Californian tepees, they hoped to bring about a social revolution, to overthrow the squares by doing nothing whatsoever. Then again, they only believed in this because their bourgeois parents had the misfortune to raise them in a time of plenty, giving them the freedom to run off and party in multicoloured pants with a wad of hard-earned notes in their tote bags. I hate hippies. Drop City has little sympathy for the hippie movement as it cocks a snook at the idle brothers and sisters whose goal was, essentially, to avoid work at all costs and puff on drug pipes. Nowadays, hippies are known as PhD or liberal arts students, and the drug consumption remains the same. Centring on a large cast of caricatured free-lovers, Boyle\u2019s detached narrative style has the surgical cynicism and breathless rush of Foster Wallace, with the compassionate satire of Kingsley Amis. Although his narrator goes a sentence or three too far with each description, he hits a note of buzzy mania, perfect for the vibrant rush of the era, though obviously quite infuriating in its excess. As the commune (based on this real commune in southern Colorado ) battles nasty Nam dropouts and a planned council demolition, the group hotfoot it to Alaska, where they take refuge in their iced-out bus and numerous well-insulated shacks. Star, the least loose of the women, is somewhat the centre of the novel, though Boyle\u2019s narrator is more of your top-down move-the-marionettes model, less personally committed, and little genuine empathy is achieved for any of these freeloaders and grizzly weirdoes. It\u2019s a fun ride, regardless. ...more This book is a gas! I thoroughly enjoyed it. It is hilarious and a great adventure story which you wouldn't expect from a bunch of goofy hippies. There are quite a number of books set around 1970 in counterculture milieus that give us the stories of radical political groups, who live in squats in the cities and who are busy planning abductions or bomb attacks for the good of mankind. Such as 'The good terrorist' by Doris Lessing, or 'My Revolutions' by Hari Kunzu. Fine books, but not hilarious i This book is a gas! I thoroughly enjoyed it. It is hilarious and a great adventure story which you wouldn't expect from a bunch of goofy hippies. There are quite a number of books set around 1970 in counterculture milieus that give us the stories of radical political groups, who live in squats in the cities and who are busy planning abductions or bomb attacks for the good of mankind. Such as 'The good terrorist' by Doris Lessing, or 'My Revolutions' by Hari Kunzu. Fine books, but not hilarious in the slightest. 'Drop City' is a far cry from political activism and introduces us to this commune in sunny California where people are just lazing around, smoking dope and listening to psychodelic music all day long. As I would imagine the majority of the hippies in sunny communes in California were doing! Norm, the leader is the leader solely by virtue of the fact that he ownes the property and provides the cash to buy groceries. He is a great talker and has no problems getting the girls, although he doesn't believe in brushing his teeth or personal hygiene in general and his glasses are all taped up. We get to know a wide variety of the people sharing this sunny communal life, ranging from very sweet dopeheads, bad hippie parents (a bit of acid couldn't hurt the kid!), exploited girls doing all the cooking and offering their bodies in the name of sexual freedom, to quite a few genuine assholes. They all go on a great big adventure in a great big schoolbus to the far reaches of the U.S.A. It remains a really hilarious account to the end and, surprisingly enough, nothing really dramatically bad ever happens to them, but perhaps other people wouldn't agree with me on that. So, if you are in the mood for reading a truly funny book, read this book! ...more Already a clear-cut five-star, even before I finish, TC Boyle's ripe and agitated revisit to the hippie extremes of the late '60s offers both a celebration and a slam. DROP CITY is the first novel of his I've tasted in a while; for years I'd sampled only the sharply-cornered ironies, their furniture often surreal, of his magazine fiction. Those always cracked the imaginative whip impressively, and trapezed their way through some breathtaking analogies, but this novel puts both those gifts on dis Already a clear-cut five-star, even before I finish, TC Boyle's ripe and agitated revisit to the hippie extremes of the late '60s offers both a celebration and a slam. DROP CITY is the first novel of his I've tasted in a while; for years I'd sampled only the sharply-cornered ironies, their furniture often surreal, of his magazine fiction. Those always cracked the imaginative whip impressively, and trapezed their way through some breathtaking analogies, but this novel puts both those gifts on display and more, taking everything to sonar depths, scary depths, of character and culture. What the novel has to reveal about the exploitation of the counterculture's women, for instance, would elevate Boyle to the stature of a feminist icon -- except he always couches that exploitation in painful individual weakness and drug-addled confusion. The way he dramatizes the inarticulate fumbling of adolescence, and the mistakes it leads to, could make the author some sort of Guide for Youth -- except his monosyllabic exchanges, freighted with hormones and unspoken private histories, are always so hilarious, as are swift, palpable, perfect descriptions. Plus, jeepers, how the plot moils! I'm writing this shortly after getting through a central climactic brouhaha, bloody yet comic, each complication erupting out of the blue yet dead right for the moment and the people involved, and I had to sit back, yank my head out the 360-degree kaleidoscope, and ask: what has he been smoking? ...more One of my very favorite comic novels, about a commune in 'Redwood City' California, Drop City. They say 'if you remember the sixties, you weren't there...' but Boyle clearly had both been there and remembered.I laughed until tears dripped down my face, remembering those days, both the charm and the not so flattering side of being 'free'--a time when boys browbeat girls into sleeping with them with philosophy and suggesting they were 'uptight,' rather than sweet-talking them. How certain people c One of my very favorite comic novels, about a commune in 'Redwood City' California, Drop City. They say 'if you remember the sixties, you weren't there...' but Boyle clearly had both been there and remembered.I laughed until tears dripped down my face, remembering those days, both the charm and the not so flattering side of being 'free'--a time when boys browbeat girls into sleeping with them with philosophy and suggesting they were 'uptight,' rather than sweet-talking them. How certain people could always be counted upon to shirk the hard labor, on some sort of philosophical grounds relating to freedom, or simply lying low, but to show up regularly at mealtimes with their plates out. When the commune falls afoul of county Sanitation Department (the downfall of many a commune), they decide to move to Alaska to ' live off the land.' These Drop City chapters are interspered with a whole second story about people actually living off the land in Alaska, showing us just how much skill and preparation and labor that takes, and how deadly serious that kind of life is, as opposed to the self-deluded, chaotic, 'everything that is, is okay' life of the commune. A collision course with Reality seems to be the order of the day. Great great fiction and a terrific gift I've given over and over again. ...more Drop City is a book, above all else, about adventures. You could say that Drop City is a book about hippies, a surprisingly sober insight into the inner monologues of a gaggle of full-fledged flower children as they celebrate free love under the summer sun of California and in the dead serious beauty of the Alaskan middle-of-nowhere. You could say that Drop City is almost as much about trappers, about a society of hard men and women who live off the grid, driven there by fear or stubbornness or Drop City is a book, above all else, about adventures. You could say that Drop City is a book about hippies, a surprisingly sober insight into the inner monologues of a gaggle of full-fledged flower children as they celebrate free love under the summer sun of California and in the dead serious beauty of the Alaskan middle-of-nowhere. You could say that Drop City is almost as much about trappers, about a society of hard men and women who live off the grid, driven there by fear or stubbornness or madness, surviving and thriving in a place most civilized folks actively avoid bothering with. You could say it's about the wacky, tragic Far-East-philosophy-meets-American-North-West-Wilderness antics that the book promises early on and delivers in spades in the second half, but the sense of adventure that runs through it, of life's little hopes and great expectations and the sudden shock of carrying through with any of them; its grasp on the monotony of downtime and the uncomfortable disbelief of the morning after; of the scattershot miracles and tragedies that come time and again, and the fragile fear and anticipation that accompanies a conquered goal when you suddenly understand that you're expected to defend it now, and the way some people treasure that peace above all else while others seem unable to trust it or are even sickened by it... Yeah, adventures. Woo. Give it a go. It's an excellent and endearingly written novel by someone I've been told to attempt half a dozen times from just as many sources. Expect love, drugs, sex, bears, beauty, tragedy, and all that jazz. ...more I was very dissappointed by <---A>T.C. Boyle</---A> on this one. A sad depiction of communal living. Having lived in the midst myself, and visited other communes (intentional living places) all I can really say is his rendering is pure hogwash! I believe the man is a pig, he's lazy and lacking in ability to do proper research. He seemed to find pleasure in making subtle innuendos using the norm of stereotypical stigma(s) in his writing. I found his book ridiculous. The stigma around the counter culture needs I was very dissappointed by T.C. Boyle on this one. A sad depiction of communal living. Having lived in the midst myself, and visited other communes (intentional living places) all I can really say is his rendering is pure hogwash! I believe the man is a pig, he's lazy and lacking in ability to do proper research. He seemed to find pleasure in making subtle innuendos using the norm of stereotypical stigma(s) in his writing. I found his book ridiculous. The stigma around the counter culture needs to be diminished, not hardened, and his writings would foster hate as all squares & people who are not in the know would like to foster. I know a hell of a lot more about grass roots counter cultural movements, and those of us who do know may have a duty to report more on it. This is the only beneficial thing to come out of reading his despicable book...I was actually sickened by the way he portreyed my tribe, and the sort of people I was raised around. I really wish I had never had the experience of reading this book. I was pretty much horrified, page by desperate page, and only kept reading it, to see if before all his b.s. ended there would be some kind of enlightenment glommed, on his part. T.C. Boyle failed miserably to gather the right information, to give the world a look inside the cult of personality we would call intentional living, now, once known as the commune in America. All in all, an extremely *Massive Fail* to communicate the truth about hippy culture! ZeRo Stars....in fact Minus Three Stars, you ridiculous man. ...more Drop City? More like Drop - alright I won't go there. Needless to say I was not pleased with this read. T.C. Boyle has apparently won prestigious literary awards. This is the only book I have read by him and it leaves me wondering how this is possible. Drop City is the story of a 20-something girl, nicknamed Star (ugh...), who joins a hippie commune in the early '70s in California that eventually chooses to pick up and move to their leader's uncle's cabin and land in Alaska. The book is simulta Drop City? More like Drop - alright I won't go there. Needless to say I was not pleased with this read. T.C. Boyle has apparently won prestigious literary awards. This is the only book I have read by him and it leaves me wondering how this is possible. Drop City is the story of a 20-something girl, nicknamed Star (ugh...), who joins a hippie commune in the early '70s in California that eventually chooses to pick up and move to their leader's uncle's cabin and land in Alaska. The book is simultaneously the story of the newlywed Sess Harder and his experiences both with his lifelong enemy and with the arrival of the hippies near his lot as the cold winter sets in in Alaska. Here's my three style gripes: One: He overuses the conjunction \"and\" so much both in narration and dialog that it becomes distracting. Two: He presents characters' thoughts right within the narration so it is sort of first person sometimes even though these first person thoughts that only one character has are presented in the third person voice. Three: The entire story often has two important events happen at the same time. Throughout, he presents one and then tells the reader about the other through character discussions in the fallout. In other words, he never abandons linear chronology; that is, until the climax, when the style abruptly changes. We see what happens from Joe's point of view, then we rewind and see it in Marco's point of view. Then Boyle returns right back to linear chronology for the remainder of the book. This is weak writing. Most importantly, Boyle is clearly mocking the hippie-way throughout the book, but the characters themselves do not learn or suffer too much at all. He does not present any real thought through the action of the plot. Instead, he peppers in sarcasm and cynicism in a most blatant and unimaginative way: by just constantly adding asides within the narration. The book's a bummer cats. A real bummer. ...more TC Boyle's novel about the Northern California commune hooks you from the start. The carefree lifestyle, readily available drugs, open sexuality and irresponsibility of this motley mix of nature-loving misfits carries a heavy cost. Bills have to be paid. Toilets overflow. Young children are neglected. Freeloaders show up and take without giving. As I read the first part of the book set somewhere around Sonoma I recalled Peter Coyote's autobiographical Sleeping Where I Fall, about his own involve TC Boyle's novel about the Northern California commune hooks you from the start. The carefree lifestyle, readily available drugs, open sexuality and irresponsibility of this motley mix of nature-loving misfits carries a heavy cost. Bills have to be paid. Toilets overflow. Young children are neglected. Freeloaders show up and take without giving. As I read the first part of the book set somewhere around Sonoma I recalled Peter Coyote's autobiographical Sleeping Where I Fall, about his own involvement in the Haight Ashbury scene and communal living in the 60s. When the government finally moves in the commune whimsically decides to relocate to the wilds of Alaska. Getting back to Nature can be prove to be pretty daunting in a harsh, unforgiving environment. This is not Northern Exposure. More like a collective group version of Jon Krakauer's Into the Wild or Golding's Lord of the Flies. On the edge of civilization, day-to-day living can be treacherous and nasty. Well-written, graphic in its depictions of the Alaskan wilderness and engaging in its depiction of the rivalries and tensions within this remote Alaskan outpost the hippies attempt to infiltrate, this novel is a gem. ...more The antiwar movement may be sprouting up again, but there's no climate for flower power this time around. The hippies who led America's last great protests against military intervention have been effectively co-opted by Old Navy, their radical message fermented in the stills of Madison Avenue down to an intoxicating syrup of consumerism. If that weren't enough to shoo the merrymakers off, a couple of major literary authors have recently turned the water cannons on them, blasting away their puka The antiwar movement may be sprouting up again, but there's no climate for flower power this time around. The hippies who led America's last great protests against military intervention have been effectively co-opted by Old Navy, their radical message fermented in the stills of Madison Avenue down to an intoxicating syrup of consumerism. If that weren't enough to shoo the merrymakers off, a couple of major literary authors have recently turned the water cannons on them, blasting away their puka beads with a torrent of bitter satire. The first was A.S. Byatt's Whistling Woman , which ended in a conflagration sparked by radical antiuniversity students. And now comes T.C. Boyle's Drop City, a rebuke of hippie culture that would make Abbie Hoffman put on a tie and write a humble apology on Crane's stationary. There seems little need for concern that the Age of Aquarius will assert itself on anything besides teen fashion, but these authors have assembled a phalanx of commentary to repulse any resurgence of naive optimism. Boyle has long produced political novels that make you hanker for a good book club. In Drop City, which portrays a raucous West Coast commune in the 1960s, he shows the same elaborate command of historical detail and social milieu that he demonstrated so effectively in Tortilla Curtain, which dealt with Mexican immigration into California in the 1980s, and Friend of the Earth, which parodied radical environmentalists. But Drop City may be his most sophisticated work to date because here he seems more willing than ever to let the colorful characters he creates follow their own paths. The social studies final exam questions that risked taking over his previous novels \u2014 \ufffd la Sinclair Lewis \u2014 here recede into subtler and more unresolvable themes. The story follows the aimless experience of a young woman named Star, who's escaped her stultifying suburban parents in the Midwest to join 60 cool \"chicks\" and \"cats\" in Drop City, a free-love commune in California. Their leader, a mildly charismatic trust-fund liberal named Norm Spender, enforces a policy he calls \"LATWIDNO\" (Land Access to Which Is Denied No One), which reminds one of another two-letter acronym that we can't print in the Monitor. At first, \"this was the life Star had envisioned,\" Boyle writes, \"a life of peace and tranquility, of love and meditation and faith in the ordinary, no pretense, no games, no plastic yearning after the almighty dollar.\" But when we meet her after three weeks of \"grooving\" \u2014 eating, smoking, and sleeping in one big happy privacy-free family \u2014 \"she was thinking she'd had enough.\" The Drop City commune would be paradise if only it didn't contain any people. Three weeks of flatulent bean stew, drug-numbed headaches, and coerced sex dressed up in the lingerie of free love are enough to soil Star's Edenic dream. Boyle is a Dickensian genius at the portrayal of hypocrisy. He zeroes in mercilessly on the human tendencies that complicate this social experiment, even while portraying their simple yearnings with real tenderness and sensitivity. Still, no amount of preaching against the constraints of \"bourgeois morality\" can free these people from feelings of attachment or jealousy. The invitation to kick back and relax does nothing to encourage construction of a badly needed septic system. And Norm's open-door policy inevitably allows some truly frightening \"cats\" to wander up to the trough. This is an old tension in America, of course, and American literature. In the 17th century, the New World reignited ancient utopian fantasies that were quickly doused by war, disease, and hardship. And in the early 19th century, Nathaniel Hawthorne was already writing an incisive critique of his transcendental friends in The Blithedale Romance. Boyle's witty update includes considerably more drug use and sex, but his conservative conclusions are essentially the same: Moral license does not produce real freedom or satisfaction. One of the novel's most interesting strategies is its surprising shift to Alaska about halfway through, which allows Boyle to demonstrate again his remarkable command of strange locales and characters. When Norm and the clan flee California for the edge of civilization, they eventually run into the last real American man named Sess Harder (Hawthorne would appreciate these names, too). Sess lives in a little cabin he built himself, three hours by canoe from the nearest town. He's dropped so far out of society that he makes Henry David Thoreau look like a complete sell-out. After a courtship that would seem implausible if we all weren't recently conditioned by The Bachelorette, he marries a woman who's been looking for a self-sufficient man like him, and the two of them set to work in this unforgiving no man's land. Of course, what interests Boyle (and us) are the striking differences and ironic similarities between Sess's survivalist holdout and Norm's hippie commune that resettles a few miles away. Once again, the clay barely has time to set in Eden before trouble slithers around both these hopeful homes. \"All the love and truth and beautiful vibes of Drop City\" don't generate much warmth at minus 40 degrees F. But Sess's well-prepared dugout can't save him from disaster, either. It seems that no matter how far away people go, there they are. And that's a problem that can't be avoided by brute strength or social reconstruction. For novels that matter, novels that grapple with the intractable challenge of how we're ever going to get along, Boyle remains one of America's most engaged and engaging authors. Originally published in The Christian Science Monitor. ...more This is a proper, juicy, big novel. I love Boyle's writing style (feels somehow like old-fashioned storytelling) and it's one if those novels you can just sink into. Saying that though, it is a bit long.... And I think I'd have enjoyed it more if I'd read it on a long train journey or something, as it's difficult to get back into if you're just reading a few pages here and there. It's a book about a commune that moves to Alaska - I felt cosy reading about fires and stew in cold cabins, but the wh This is a proper, juicy, big novel. I love Boyle's writing style (feels somehow like old-fashioned storytelling) and it's one if those novels you can just sink into. Saying that though, it is a bit long.... And I think I'd have enjoyed it more if I'd read it on a long train journey or something, as it's difficult to get back into if you're just reading a few pages here and there. It's a book about a commune that moves to Alaska - I felt cosy reading about fires and stew in cold cabins, but the whole thing has an edge of darkness and imminent disaster. The ending is kind of something and nothing. I hope they're all ok out there! ...more What to make of this book? It's two parallel stories about the 60s in Alaska. One: a hardy homesteader couple. Two: a bunch of hippies, \"persecuted\" by the law in Mendocino county, who decide to go back to the land, or at least drive a few thousand miles in a giant school bus and set up camp. No points for guessing which social experiment lasts longer. It's a sort of unaffectionate look at the pomp and circumstance of the 1960s. I can certainly sympathize with Boyle's derision - it's been a few y What to make of this book? It's two parallel stories about the 60s in Alaska. One: a hardy homesteader couple. Two: a bunch of hippies, \"persecuted\" by the law in Mendocino county, who decide to go back to the land, or at least drive a few thousand miles in a giant school bus and set up camp. No points for guessing which social experiment lasts longer. It's a sort of unaffectionate look at the pomp and circumstance of the 1960s. I can certainly sympathize with Boyle's derision - it's been a few years since I read this, but I do believe that at one point a bunch of locals beat the shit out of the longhairs for playing a Van Morrison song a couple hundred times too many. But as targets go, hippies are slow-moving and a little too easy. Pamela is a little too humble and Sess is a little too manly. It's a great book, though. I felt like I was right back in college. The internal dynamics of the hippies are fun to read about: how they divide up the labor, what they do when they're bored, the petty infighting that comes with communal life. Some of them are even genuinely well-meaning, and not in it solely for the opportunity to molest minors in the name of free love. ...more This is probably my most favorite book I have read in a long time. I am now a true bona fide TC Boyle fan. I really want to go to Alaska now! (Which is kind of funny because I have a reoccurring dream that I am on a train to Alaska\u2026 ) But anyway, this book was so well done, well researched, fun to read and I loved all of the characters, for better or worse. I love the subtle humor in this book and how it shows people's flaws and strengths and how all came to be so apparent in Alaska's rugged int This is probably my most favorite book I have read in a long time. I am now a true bona fide TC Boyle fan. I really want to go to Alaska now! (Which is kind of funny because I have a reoccurring dream that I am on a train to Alaska\u2026 ) But anyway, this book was so well done, well researched, fun to read and I loved all of the characters, for better or worse. I love the subtle humor in this book and how it shows people's flaws and strengths and how all came to be so apparent in Alaska's rugged interior. It was interesting to see how people lived off the land from a true homesteading point of view and then also how the hippies adapted to it. I'm still thinking about this book and processing it, but I would recommend this to anyone. I also want to add that I feel like reading any of TC Boyle's books totally builds on your vocabulary. ...more For anyone who grew up in \u201cthe sixties,\u201d the idea of dropping out of society and the establishment \u2013 tune in, turn on, drop out \u2013 seemed pretty romantic at the time, -- for a time. Barefoot hippies with granny dresses and flowers in their hair, a constant flow of drugs, free love, living off the land \u2013 what\u2019s not to like, except for constantly dirty feet and bad trips, venereal disease, and cleaning up other people\u2019s messes while never having time to yourself or food that seems made under quite For anyone who grew up in \u201cthe sixties,\u201d the idea of dropping out of society and the establishment \u2013 tune in, turn on, drop out \u2013 seemed pretty romantic at the time, -- for a time. Barefoot hippies with granny dresses and flowers in their hair, a constant flow of drugs, free love, living off the land \u2013 what\u2019s not to like, except for constantly dirty feet and bad trips, venereal disease, and cleaning up other people\u2019s messes while never having time to yourself or food that seems made under quite sanitary enough conditions\u2026? T.C.Boyle captures a snapshot of the era which does not romanticize the hippie life-style much. It\u2019s a pretty good story and extends beyond the warm California commune life, into the wilds of Alaska, where the story gets far more interesting. ...more Nothing like a book about a commune to get you through a slow class. Great book, fantastic characters. The book was constantly moving, never was there a moment when I was left waiting for something interesting to happen(alright maybe once or twice, but I have yet to come across a book that has absolutely no stand-still moments). My main interest in this book came through the characters, which I already deemed fantastic. Which they truly are. I recommend to anyone looking for an interesting read. I adored this long novel about 70s back-to-the-land hippies in California who move to Alaska and confront not only the weather and wilderness but also the tough, intolerant, self-reliant Alaskan bush dwellers who have an entirely different take on \"back-to-the-land.\" T.C. Boyle is a great writer. This is Boyle's ninth novel, first published in 2003, and it was a National Book Award finalist. The title refers to the topic of focus: a hippie communal experiment along the Russian River in 1970 that then migrates to the wilds of Alaska. If you are familiar with Boyle's earlier work, then you know the novel will explore the life of this commune (and juxtapose it with an alternative coupling of adults) by offering the voice and perspectives of a range of different characters, and through dense This is Boyle's ninth novel, first published in 2003, and it was a National Book Award finalist. The title refers to the topic of focus: a hippie communal experiment along the Russian River in 1970 that then migrates to the wilds of Alaska. If you are familiar with Boyle's earlier work, then you know the novel will explore the life of this commune (and juxtapose it with an alternative coupling of adults) by offering the voice and perspectives of a range of different characters, and through dense details and sometimes lyrical descriptions present a wide range of evidence to encourage the readers to assess the positive and negative aspects of this lifestyle and historical moment for themselves. At just under 500 pages, this novel requires some time commitment. It's a bit slow going at first but picks up momentum as the focus shifts to Alaska. What strikes me most is how very similar the overall structure here is to Boyle's earlier success _Tortilla Curtain_ (1995). In _Tortilla Curtain_, we had the lives and perspectives of two different couples in southern California intersecting, told from their four variant vantages, evaluating the impact and issues of unodumented workers from Mexico. In _Drop City_, we have two couples again, with the modification that the girl in one couple shifts partners so we get the perspectives of both her men. That threesome represents the communal experiment, while the other main couple, up in Alaska, is a throwback to a pioneer couple with very nineteenth century ideas of gender roles. Both novels have a subtext concern of man's impact on the environment, and an appreciation of nature in an undefiled state. Both novels use animals as metaphors and speak to cultural struggles about appropriate behavior and acceptance, and both novels start slowly and build to a crescendo of violent and dramatic activity in the closing fifty pages. Both end with an opportunity to take action (or not) in the face of disaster, and the characters' varying responses in both cases would be excellent fodder for book club discussions. Although not as relevant as _Tortilla Curtain_, _Drop City_ does give glimpses of the idealist vision, the stoned bliss, and the true sense of shared community such a commune could engender, but it also conveys the bitter realities, filth, uncooperative behavior, and anarchic confusion that could certainly be found in such a place as well. As in _Tortilla Curtain_, we see strengths and weaknesses for all the major characters, while there are some downright evil characters in both books (and I noticed that in both books the characters chosen to be unrepentant rapists are men of color). Does this book make me want to drop out of the rat race and go join a commune? No......but it does make me want to listen to some Grateful Dead tunes, hike among the redwoods, and spend some quality down time with gentle, mellow people. ...more This is the story of Drop City, a commune founded in northern California in the late 60's. There are about 30 hippies who take up residence in this community of free love, endless parties, drugs and dancing. The book follows three of the residents closely. Star and Ronnie (aka Pan) arrived together from Peterskill, New York. Marco came from southern California. Marco and Star start sleeping together and end up as a couple for most of the book, though this is a situation that changes from time to This is the story of Drop City, a commune founded in northern California in the late 60's. There are about 30 hippies who take up residence in this community of free love, endless parties, drugs and dancing. The book follows three of the residents closely. Star and Ronnie (aka Pan) arrived together from Peterskill, New York. Marco came from southern California. Marco and Star start sleeping together and end up as a couple for most of the book, though this is a situation that changes from time to time. Life in the commune is sometimes not as idyllic as it was supposed to be, like the time when a 14 year old runaway is raped by a couple of black residents. Or when Marco almost gets killed by the same guys in a fight. The rest of the members try to kick them out, but they are guilt-tripped into letting them stay. Finally, the local authorities move in and close the commune down, using bulldozers to take down the various shacks the reisdents have put up. As all of this is happening, a parallel story occurs. Sess Harder is a young trapper homesteading in the wilds of Alaska, 160 miles north of Fairbanks. He finds and marries Pamela, a sweet young woman who wishes for a life on the frontier with a man of the woods like Sess. Together they set up a home life on the Thirtymile River, a tributary of the Yukon River. The closest town, a squalid little place called Boynton, is about 12 miles downriver. Sess is happy and well-adjusted, except for a long-running feud with another local guy named Joe Bosky. While he and Pamela are on their honeymoon, Bosky kills Harder's dogs in front of his cabin. Having been kicked off their land in California, the residents of Drop City, led by a guy named Norm Sender, decide to uproot themselves and move to Alaska. Norm's uncle has just abandoned a cabin a few miles upriver from Harder. The clan piles into their hippie bus and it and a few other vehicles and make a caravan all the way up the Alaska Highway to the end of the road in Boynton. They get themselves and their gear hauled upriver to the cabin. They arrive at the height of summer, but know they must prepare for winter. So they get busy planting a garden, building extra buildings, putting up food, chopping wood, etc. The book details the clash of cultures between the hippie freak show and the real back-to-the-land ethos of Sess and Pamela. In the end, Drop City does make it in Alaska. Pamela and Star, and Sess and Marco become good friends. Ronnie falls in with Joe Bosky, and things do not end well for either of them. The book is also a story about adapting to a new situation, and dealing with Alaska and the incredible freezing cold and lonely winters. Narrated by Richard Poe who does an good job of portraying the different characters. ...more Epic sprawling novel that although flawed, could be the book of the year and good enough for me to add the authors biblio to these pages. The story is told in two intertwining parts. Part 1 is a hippy commune in San Franciso, charting the relationships and life their in all its glory. The second story, which I enjoy more, is set in alaska at the furthest edges of america and has a woodsman, sess, meeting his would be wife pamela and the other cronies of the town, including his nemesis, Joe Bosky. Epic sprawling novel that although flawed, could be the book of the year and good enough for me to add the authors biblio to these pages. The story is told in two intertwining parts. Part 1 is a hippy commune in San Franciso, charting the relationships and life their in all its glory. The second story, which I enjoy more, is set in alaska at the furthest edges of america and has a woodsman, sess, meeting his would be wife pamela and the other cronies of the town, including his nemesis, Joe Bosky. Sess and Joe are the opposite ends of the scale - Sess, not that far removed from the hippies plans of living of the land, opposed to the bad tempered and drunk bosky, ex us marine. The hippy commune runs into trouble with the authorities, mainly because of lack of sanitation (the hippy dream is ruthlessly exposed in this book), so they decide to move lock stock and barrell to the leaders uncle's place, where they will be free from the man. This, they are to an extent, although they are not free from nature. The savages of kill or be killed are brought into light here, again against the hippy ideal, as they have to fight of bears and wolves and kill anything just to eat. Some of the writing is jaw droppingly good and although I dont think there is as much humour as amazon reviewers indicated, they is plenty of truth. Truth about relationships, people, responsibilities and nature. The book is long and you have to consider how it is going to end. Its needs a great set piece to finish with. And the book provides. By the end, the group has split into factions with the original peace lovers siding with Sess and the move selfish hangers on teaming up with Joe. Joe and sess have had many minor run ins (killed dogs, stolen and trashed cars) and the end is told from both viewpoints as Joe takes pot shots at sess's dog train from his plane. The plane crashes and sess gets to the two survivors. One has managed to kill himself by drinking alcohol at -40 degrees and joe is barely alive and left to die, with his dying words, appropriately enogh - fuck you. I said the book had flaws and the only one is the characterisation of the hippies. As they are all called stupid names and the book is written in a slight detached (only way I can describe it) way, its difficult to remember the back story and inter relationships between the many members. This, however, is a minor complaint and the book at times, is brilliant. ...more This book had caught me somewhat by surprise. Not in a good or bad way, rather just simply a way I did not anticipate the story going. The plot moves in a static style, jumping forward here and there and sometimes skipping scenes you would assume would be there. Which is okay, no complaints here, its just not the way I would have envisioned the story going, I guess. But I like surprises, so that works out just fine. I have read T.C. before, his anthologized short story \"Greasy Lake\" (which I LOV This book had caught me somewhat by surprise. Not in a good or bad way, rather just simply a way I did not anticipate the story going. The plot moves in a static style, jumping forward here and there and sometimes skipping scenes you would assume would be there. Which is okay, no complaints here, its just not the way I would have envisioned the story going, I guess. But I like surprises, so that works out just fine. I have read T.C. before, his anthologized short story \"Greasy Lake\" (which I LOVE, by the way), so I had a little bit of an idea on how T.C. constructs things, seeing him on with larger canvas like this was really a delight. I read some of the other reviews before writing this, and although I think many of them have good points, the same things just didn't bother me as much. Many people said that he used \"and\" too much, which is really a stylistic choice, much like some authors had using the word \"said\" after every bit of dialogue, and instead change it to something different after every time someone speaks. T.C. likes to have a static, intense style to his writing, you have to hear him speaking it while you're reading (go on youtube and watch him do a reading, it's more of a performance than a reading, believe me), and you'll understand why he wrote it the way he did. Another complaint I heard was that they didn't like the characters. Which boggles my mind, because if you hate the hippies, and this book is about a hippie comune, then why pick up the book in the first place? Of course they're going to do hippie things, and have hippie-like ideals, at least most of the time. If you despise counter culture I think you might still enjoy this book because it's not really a \"hippie's are awesome and i wish we were all hippies!\" kind of book, rather, it's a \"make of this what you will\" kind of book, one where the answer is something you fill in the gaps for, instead of the book providing it. Unless you just want to be judgmental of the whole thing, of course. But really, I enjoyed reading the story for the glimpse of these rambling nomads looking for a place to call their own, I found them interesting. For me it didn't matter what their lifestyle choices were, I was just interested in where the story was taking them, because in the end that's all that should matter. ...more This book made me homesick for Santa Rosa. The story is about a hippie commune built just outside the city limits on the principal of \"Land Access To Which Is Denied No One\" [oft referred to in the story by the cumbersome acronym LATWIDNO] by the callow but good-hearted nephew who inherits a large tract of land. The commune members are eventually evicted from the county on the grounds of all sorts of fire codes, condemned buildings, and that everyone was too high to make a real latrine trench. & This book made me homesick for Santa Rosa. The story is about a hippie commune built just outside the city limits on the principal of \"Land Access To Which Is Denied No One\" [oft referred to in the story by the cumbersome acronym LATWIDNO] by the callow but good-hearted nephew who inherits a large tract of land. The commune members are eventually evicted from the county on the grounds of all sorts of fire codes, condemned buildings, and that everyone was too high to make a real latrine trench. >.> So they moved to Alaska! Where the living is easy and poop freezes. Pretty much the rest of the book is about the commune members and another native family who live nearby, and how a bunch of hippies learn to survive [or not] in the land of endless night. I really enjoy Boyle's writing, and the story was unserious and entertaining. It didn't really go into the politics of drop outs, except for some racial tensions within the group and the difficulty of crossing the Canadian border as a draft dodger in the latter years of the war, but it does present some of the Severe Logical Flaws of the typical hippie commune that made me want to tear my hair out. \"Dropping out\" of productive society so that you can collect cash aid and foodstamps does not mean you are subverting the dominant paradigm! It means you are lazy and leeching. There were also a couple of scenes that made me glare at the book - most notably one in which a mother knowingly doses her young children with acid, and is then shocked - shocked! - when there are problems resulting from this. Anyway, the name 'Drop City' sounded deadly familiar but unplaceable to me the whole time I was reading the book, and I wondered if I had heard about such a place in Santa Rosa. It turns out the real Drop City was in Colorado, and was disbanded due to lack of interest, rather than facility codes, in 1977. So it was a quick read with a fast-paced plot. Sometimes it was difficult for me to keep the characters straight, since they all had 'straight' names as well as 'drop out' names, like 'Pan' and 'Sky Dog', and the narrative POV shifts many times, but by the time the collective had reached Alaska, the personalities were well-developed enough to identify on their own merits. It also has a bunch of nekkid butts on the cover. Whee! ...more If this were written by anyone but TC Boyle, I would've given it four stars, however I've come to expect better from Boyle. The basic plot is not overly complex. A hippy commune--Drop City--is chased out of California and decides to reincarnate in Alaska as \"Drop City North\". Overall, TC does a good job of bringing down the microscope on the whole hippy culture, the good and the bad. There are the innocents, idealistic dreamers, and the hustlers and layabouts who run their game under the guise o If this were written by anyone but TC Boyle, I would've given it four stars, however I've come to expect better from Boyle. The basic plot is not overly complex. A hippy commune--Drop City--is chased out of California and decides to reincarnate in Alaska as \"Drop City North\". Overall, TC does a good job of bringing down the microscope on the whole hippy culture, the good and the bad. There are the innocents, idealistic dreamers, and the hustlers and layabouts who run their game under the guise of being true to the tenets of the culture. There are some fine descriptions of the hippy habitat, communal meals, parties, acid trips, etc. However, the story of Sess Harder and Pam led me down a road that didn't seem to end anywhere. It's a LONG parallel story. I didn't buy Pam's character: why would a total babe like Pam take up with a backwoods misanthrope like Sess? I guessed she was a scout for Drop City, sent to con a lonely man in the Alaska wild--but no, she really falls for the guy. Or so we are told--literally--but I didn't buy it. I also didn't buy how quickly Sess accepts the hippies just upriver from his cabin. From this point, the novel just loses focus, and all the characters karma (good or bad) comes back on them. Bottom line? A good read, but if you haven't read TC Boyle pick up any book of his short stories, and for a novel \"Water Music\" was his best. ...more Published in 2003, T. C. Boyle\u2019s Drop City is a post mortem of early 70\u2019s commune living. The story begins in 1970 in Northern California, as commune leader Norm Sender deals with keeping the commune running as the majority of his residents are only interested in the abundant sex, drugs, and food, with only a few true believers contributing to Sender\u2019s mission. Eventually, due to both police harassment and some disturbing incidents in the commune, Sender pulls up stakes and moves the commune to Published in 2003, T. C. Boyle\u2019s Drop City is a post mortem of early 70\u2019s commune living. The story begins in 1970 in Northern California, as commune leader Norm Sender deals with keeping the commune running as the majority of his residents are only interested in the abundant sex, drugs, and food, with only a few true believers contributing to Sender\u2019s mission. Eventually, due to both police harassment and some disturbing incidents in the commune, Sender pulls up stakes and moves the commune to the wilds of Alaska. The hippies are clearly in over their head, and start to crack up, both due to the unforgiving landscape, and to jealousies, resentments, and base self-interest. In a parallel story, loner Sess Harder struggles to keep his new marriage alive in the face of harassment of an unstable ex-marine with whom he has a feud. These two stories eventually collide in the novel, and the novel provides a sharp critique at the ultimate folly of the peace and love movement. However, Boyle never loses sight of his characters humanity, even as they participate in some ugly behavior. The behavior is born from the fact that the characters are all too human, which is something that ideologies sometimes lose sight of. As a writer, this is another example I look to as far as integrating such recognizably human characters into a mosaic of the recent past of America. ...more I read T.C. Boyle's, Tortilla Curtain, which I did enjoy, though not love. Having now read two of his books, I think I might retire this author to my \"Only If There Is Nothing Else To Read\" list. Not that I didn't like this story, I did, but I don't think I could take another tale of good and evil and how easy it is to confuse the two. [return][return]One of the annoying things in this book is the author's tendency to use the given and hippie names of the Drop City residents interchangeably. I w I read T.C. Boyle's, Tortilla Curtain, which I did enjoy, though not love. Having now read two of his books, I think I might retire this author to my \"Only If There Is Nothing Else To Read\" list. Not that I didn't like this story, I did, but I don't think I could take another tale of good and evil and how easy it is to confuse the two. [return][return]One of the annoying things in this book is the author's tendency to use the given and hippie names of the Drop City residents interchangeably. I was always forgetting whose name had been changed to what. I am sure there is a reason for this back and forth between the two names, but for the life of me I can't figure it out.[return][return]The ending sort of reminds me of the movie American Beauty. At the end, everyone sort of gets what they want or deserve (and Boyle makes it clear that what you deserve is what you really want), but the reader is left wondering if that really is the case after all. I rather like the ending, which is why this book gets a higher rating. ...more This 444 page novel, a gift from Ms. Shortridge, took me at least a year to read, while making way for textbooks, and curriculum reading, and other novels in between. But reading TC Boyle is like sucking on candy whilst reading. His style is so visual - each character's movement is completely fleshed out - but not in a Dickens this-took-three-pages-to-pour-tea-way, but a well thought out tasty economy of words. And the subject matter was highly interesting to me as a hardy Sourdough of an Alaska This 444 page novel, a gift from Ms. Shortridge, took me at least a year to read, while making way for textbooks, and curriculum reading, and other novels in between. But reading TC Boyle is like sucking on candy whilst reading. His style is so visual - each character's movement is completely fleshed out - but not in a Dickens this-took-three-pages-to-pour-tea-way, but a well thought out tasty economy of words. And the subject matter was highly interesting to me as a hardy Sourdough of an Alaskan: in the end, when fall is in the Interior, I couldn't help but long for just one sniff of the air. Boyle knows what he's talking about and I will miss my little hippie commune. I have a completely different idea of what \"free love\" means and I am all the better for Boyle to have shed some light on the 60s as possibly disgusting, harmful, and ironically, quite selfish. ...more Drop City was a solid read. Tracing the journeys of members of a commune and the lives of those native Alaskans they encounter, the novel is both social commentary and strong narrative. Evocative both of communal living and the pioneering lifestyle, the prose was fluid. More interesting, though, was the decidedly apolitical view of both lifestyles whch are outside the status quo. While pointing out the limitations of homesteading and relative anarchy, one never felt the author was lauding one cho Drop City was a solid read. Tracing the journeys of members of a commune and the lives of those native Alaskans they encounter, the novel is both social commentary and strong narrative. Evocative both of communal living and the pioneering lifestyle, the prose was fluid. More interesting, though, was the decidedly apolitical view of both lifestyles whch are outside the status quo. While pointing out the limitations of homesteading and relative anarchy, one never felt the author was lauding one choice over the other. The more interesting of the two trajectories was the story of Sess and Pamela, a woodsman and his new wife who advertised for a husband. If there was one fault with the book it was that their relationship was less explored than some of those in the commune which became predictable after a while. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed every page of TC Boyle's novel about a hippie commune in (first) northern California and (then amazingly) the wilds of Alaska in the early 1970s. Boyle offers a realistic, unflinching and at times uncomfortable look at the difficulties of sustaining a communal society, particularly when spiced with copious amounts of drugs, free love and shallow thinking. The narrative journey, though, is hugely satisfying and believable, while being a breeze to read. The characters are full I thoroughly enjoyed every page of TC Boyle's novel about a hippie commune in (first) northern California and (then amazingly) the wilds of Alaska in the early 1970s. Boyle offers a realistic, unflinching and at times uncomfortable look at the difficulties of sustaining a communal society, particularly when spiced with copious amounts of drugs, free love and shallow thinking. The narrative journey, though, is hugely satisfying and believable, while being a breeze to read. The characters are fully-realized (I swear I've known some of these people)and interesting. Even if you've never been a hippie in your life (and I haven't) or you've never known one, Drop City is a highly entertaining read. ...more T.C. Boyle is just so much fun to read. In Drop City, he takes on the 60's counterculture and their movement to \"tune in, turn on, and drop out\" and contrasts it directly with the self-sufficiency of those living off the grid in Alaska. He primarily depicts the hippies as naive, their chemical-induced optimism as somewhat self-serving and childlike (although he does seem to have genuine affection for a handful of the commune members: e.g., Star, Marco). His Alaskans, on the other hand, are the r T.C. Boyle is just so much fun to read. In Drop City, he takes on the 60's counterculture and their movement to \"tune in, turn on, and drop out\" and contrasts it directly with the self-sufficiency of those living off the grid in Alaska. He primarily depicts the hippies as naive, their chemical-induced optimism as somewhat self-serving and childlike (although he does seem to have genuine affection for a handful of the commune members: e.g., Star, Marco). His Alaskans, on the other hand, are the real deal--true \"get back to the land\" folks, hard-working, no-nonsense, disciplined, and with a deep moral center. Even their flaws seem like natural outcroppings of their difficult lifestyle. It's hard not to respect them more, given Boyle's characterizations. ...more Loved it. Took me right back to 1970, or what I remember of 1970 as a 4 year old. Boyle captures the spirit of most young men and women who were trying to invent a new world, but kept finding themselves in it. In this case, Drop City started in Sebastapol, and when the local townspeople got sick of the mess, noise, and disruption, they move to a remote part of Alaska right before winter. Inevitably, issues of race, class, gender and sheer personality muddle things up. As an aside, this book, lik Loved it. Took me right back to 1970, or what I remember of 1970 as a 4 year old. Boyle captures the spirit of most young men and women who were trying to invent a new world, but kept finding themselves in it. In this case, Drop City started in Sebastapol, and when the local townspeople got sick of the mess, noise, and disruption, they move to a remote part of Alaska right before winter. Inevitably, issues of race, class, gender and sheer personality muddle things up. As an aside, this book, like more contemporaneous works by Alison Lurie and David Lodge, really help frame the launching of the women's movement. ...more<---C>T.C. Boyle</---C>", "Title": "Drop City"},
