{"Comments": "Here's what I wrote on my book club blog about <+++>Pretties</+++>, and the whole series: Westerfeld knows that he's writing to teens, so he's trying to address a LOT of issues that teens face.<---F> One is, obviously, being superficial</---F>. Remember reading the teen magazines, hearing all of the celebrity gossip (<---B>not to mention your own school gossip</---B>), trying to dress well and be \"cool?\" Maybe you were better than I was and didn't get pulled into that, but most teens are. And often the pull doesn't go away once you Here's what I wrote on my book club blog about <+++>Pretties</+++>, and the whole series: Westerfeld knows that he's writing to teens, so he's trying to address a LOT of issues that teens face. One is, obviously, being superficial. Remember reading the teen magazines, hearing all of the celebrity gossip (not to mention your own school gossip), trying to dress well and be \"cool?\" Maybe you were better than I was and didn't get pulled into that, but most teens are. And often the pull doesn't go away once you turn 20 and aren't a teen anymore. I still find myself tempted to read the covers of the gossip magazines at the grocery store,<---M> to watch another cookie-cutter</---M>, uninspiring chick flick or to read the mindless quick-read books. It's harder to choose the book that I'll struggle through but that will make me think and maybe even change, or to turn off the tv when a couple of beautiful people are on the screen, no matter what kind of dumb things they're saying. When Peris chooses the promise of blissful ignorance and laxity of the Pretty society, part of you can't really blame him. Who wants problems? Who wants to have to think and to work when we can just be entertained instead? We have to consciously choose to resist that pull, and teens are just being introduced to it. Another issue is our treatment of the environment. I think that Westerfeld isn't advocating the pristine, sustainable development of the Pretty society, or the wasteful stupidity of the Rusties (our present state), but something in between that Tally gets a glimpse of with the Smokies. A reverence and appreciation for nature, but an understanding that nature is to provide for our needs, and so cutting down a tree is not a sin (some tree-hugging extremists today might take the Pretties side on this, don't you think?). When the Rusties come along, he's again attacking our tendencies for senseless violence, adherence to illogical traditions (women's subservience) just because \"it's always been that way,\" and even religious piety. \"Question authority!\" he's saying all throughout the book. That's what teens do naturally, but he's targeting an authority that they don't always recognize - the media. Teens now can't live without their iPods, they go to the movies every weekend, spend hours and hours online and are basically overloaded by the media. All of this keeps them from thinking on their own. This book makes you think and hopefully can encourage some teens to think on their own and pull themselves away from all of the media that tries so hard to tell them what to think. In addition to all of his preaching, Westerfeld writes a captivating series with convincing characters and and draws you into his intriguing world as you read his books. ...more I'm pretty disappointed with this book. The last one was pretty good but this one... not so great. They kept using this stupid pretty language that annoyed me to no end. If i hear that anything is \"Bogus, bubbly, pretty-making, fashion-missing\" ect. EVER again, i might have to strangle that person. Besides the annoying slang, the main character is now a complete twit. She is a \"Pretty\" sure, but she made some really stupid decisions. The worst was at the end. She picked the WRONG guy. and that's I'm pretty disappointed with this book. The last one was pretty good but this one... not so great. They kept using this stupid pretty language that annoyed me to no end. If i hear that anything is \"Bogus, bubbly, pretty-making, fashion-missing\" ect. EVER again, i might have to strangle that person. Besides the annoying slang, the main character is now a complete twit. She is a \"Pretty\" sure, but she made some really stupid decisions. The worst was at the end. She picked the WRONG guy. and that's all i'm going to say on that subject. There's also the fact that Scott kept comparing her to a princess in a tower. Well, not even princesses are that dim. She completely left her old friends for some guy who didnt even really like her. He only liked the fact that she was rebellious. So, for this guy she leaves her BEST friend Peris, her TRUE love, <---C>David</---C>, and turns her back on her only REAL friend Shay. For what? Not a good book. I'm not even sure i want to read the next. ...more What I found most interesting about Pretties was its thematic use of various forms of bodily mutilation/eating disorders. In a perfect society, where everyone is brain-damaged into peace and transformed into absolutely perfectly beautiful creatures, how do you rebel? By starving yourself, cutting yourself - in a lesser sense, by covering your body in tattoos. (Tattoos as mutilation is a controversial thought, and I'm not sure I know where I stand with it - I mean, are some tattoos okay, but a bo What I found most interesting about Pretties was its thematic use of various forms of bodily mutilation/eating disorders. In a perfect society, where everyone is brain-damaged into peace and transformed into absolutely perfectly beautiful creatures, how do you rebel? By starving yourself, cutting yourself - in a lesser sense, by covering your body in tattoos. (Tattoos as mutilation is a controversial thought, and I'm not sure I know where I stand with it - I mean, are some tattoos okay, but a body full of them not? The social stigma and our association of tattoos with crime, wild people, tramps, etc. has a lot to do with it. I like my tattoo, and Jim's three tattoos, and yet I really don't want either of us to get any more. It's kind of weird.) But these teenage boys and girls - they look perfect, they've been surgically transformed into the universal pinnacle of beauty, and they're still starving or mutilating themselves in order to \"wake up,\" to \"feel it.\" It's a very dark aspect of this series, one I'd like to see addressed in further detail, if possible. I'm very excited to read the last installment in the series, Specials. I'm just waiting for it to come out in paperback so I can complete my set. ...more Really? Gotta bring in a love triangle? Sigh. And if I never hear the word \"bubbly\" again, I'll die happy. Pretty positive I won't be finishing this series, because I like my brain cells too much. Just like \"Uglies,\" \"Pretties\" is an entertaining read. Tally's adventures continue as she becomes pretty and fights to regain her awareness. We meet some new characters, including Tally's new love interest. The story moves fast and gets more intense in the third part of the book. Like many mentioned before, the \"pretty talk\" gets annoying. There is only so many times you can take the word \"bubbly\" repeated. But I guess the author was trying to create a \"pretty language\" indicative of the slow p Just like \"Uglies,\" \"Pretties\" is an entertaining read. Tally's adventures continue as she becomes pretty and fights to regain her awareness. We meet some new characters, including Tally's new love interest. The story moves fast and gets more intense in the third part of the book. Like many mentioned before, the \"pretty talk\" gets annoying. There is only so many times you can take the word \"bubbly\" repeated. But I guess the author was trying to create a \"pretty language\" indicative of the slow pretty thinking... This series, though entertaining, still lacks something for me. I think this \"something\" is emotional depth and intensity of feeling. There are some other authors (Suzanne Collins and Neal Shusterman, for example) who can convey emotions much better than Westerfeld, in my opinion. ...more Pretties is the sequel to Uglies, the second in a trilogy which I had started back two months previous. I opened the book with some hesitancy, despite the fact that I'd enjoyed the first book and had been anxious to start the second, since the details of the first book were kind of fuzzy \u2014 would I remember enough to piece together a coherent story? Turns out I needn\u2019t have worried. Pretties picks up where Uglies left off, yes \u2014 but the main character\u2019s memory has been tampered with and she can\u2019t Pretties is the sequel to Uglies, the second in a trilogy which I had started back two months previous. I opened the book with some hesitancy, despite the fact that I'd enjoyed the first book and had been anxious to start the second, since the details of the first book were kind of fuzzy \u2014 would I remember enough to piece together a coherent story? Turns out I needn\u2019t have worried. Pretties picks up where Uglies left off, yes \u2014 but the main character\u2019s memory has been tampered with and she can\u2019t quite remember what happened in the first book, anyway. My own stunted recollections made for a rather authentic read. :-) Actually, I found myself identifying all too well with the emptyheaded, \u201cpretty-minded\u201d section of the book (aptly nameed \u201cSleeping Beauty\u201d): if you\u2019ve ever zoned out in front of the TV or computer, wasting away your time and losing some sense of reality all in the name of entertaining yourself, you\u2019ll understand exactly the sensation Westerfield is trying to recreate. (Being sleep-deprived helps with this perception, too.) The futuristic society that so intrigued me in Uglies continued to fascinate throughout this sequel. The Pretties, made beautiful through an operation at age sixteen, spend all their time amusing themselves and no time thinking \u2014 that is, until Tally Youngblood (flawed heroine of Uglies) arrives in New Pretty Town. Through the help of new friend Zane, Tally\u2019s memory of her ugly past is reawakened. She and Zane search for a cure for pretty-thinking by staying \u201cbubbly\u201d \u2014 which is basically to be hyped up on adrenaline \u2014 all the time. (I loved the Pretties\u2019 distinct dialect that infused the first chapters, and I loved that Westerfield taught it to his readers simply by using it repeatedly.) Of course, as Tally slowly remembers the events of the first book, things get increasingly more complicated. And as hard as she tries, Special Circumstances (the almost-mythical enforcement agency of this rigid society) always seems to be one step ahead of her. Pretties concludes it a most cliff-hanging fashion, much as you\u2019d expect the sandwiched part of a trilogy to be (think Star Wars or Lord of the Rings \u2026 isn\u2019t the end of second part just about the most depressing, lowest point you can sink?). Obviously, I can\u2019t wait to get my hands on the final book of the trilogy, Specials! ...more Apparently being pretty also means you use the words \u201cbubbly\u201d and \u201cbogus.\u201d Seriously? Have we suddenly been transported back to the 1990s? I have to admit, every time Tally or Zane or Shay or anyone used the words \u201cbubbly\u201d and \u201cbogus,\u201d I rolled my eyes. Which means I was rolling my eyes for ninety percent of this book. I was pretty disappointed with Pretties; there isn\u2019t much plot difference between it and Uglies. In Uglies, Tally want to be pretty, and in Pretties, Tally wants to be a Crim. Tall Apparently being pretty also means you use the words \u201cbubbly\u201d and \u201cbogus.\u201d Seriously? Have we suddenly been transported back to the 1990s? I have to admit, every time Tally or Zane or Shay or anyone used the words \u201cbubbly\u201d and \u201cbogus,\u201d I rolled my eyes. Which means I was rolling my eyes for ninety percent of this book. I was pretty disappointed with Pretties; there isn\u2019t much plot difference between it and Uglies. In Uglies, Tally want to be pretty, and in Pretties, Tally wants to be a Crim. Tally fights with Shay, escapes to the Smoke, gets lost along the way only be saved by another group she didn\u2019t know existed, reaches the Smoke, and then betrays the Smokies. The only difference is Tally discovers how the cure David\u2019s mother created at the end of Uglies works and the social experiment the doctors in Tally\u2019s world run. And while it was nice to undersand more about Tally\u2019s world, it just isn\u2019t enough to carry Pretties. Oh, and instead of David making Tally\u2019s heart going pitter-patter, it\u2019s Zane, who always felt a little off to me. I just wasn\u2019t hooked by the second book in this trilogy, and I\u2019m hoping the third book, Specials, redeems this series for me. My friend Helen ranks the series as Specials, Uglies, Extras, and then Pretties, so I know I\u2019m not alone. ...more My first completed novel for the #BookTubeAThon! My thoughts on this book are simple: - I enjoyed it, but I don't think it comes close to matching how great Uglies was - The plot in the last around 100 pages was exciting, but the first 2/3rds of this book dragged and felt all-together unnecessary - The novel felt repetitive and redundant at several points - I feel like it's suffering from middle-book-syndrome I did enjoy it, like I said, but it just didn't capture me like the first one. I will defini My first completed novel for the #BookTubeAThon! My thoughts on this book are simple: - I enjoyed it, but I don't think it comes close to matching how great Uglies was - The plot in the last around 100 pages was exciting, but the first 2/3rds of this book dragged and felt all-together unnecessary - The novel felt repetitive and redundant at several points - I feel like it's suffering from middle-book-syndrome I did enjoy it, like I said, but it just didn't capture me like the first one. I will definitely be reading the next novel, and have a feeling it will be very action packed! ...more (EDITED: Updated star-status at the end) Is this book really as bad I as I think it is? I need more friends to read this, to reassure me that it really is awful and it's not just that I'm sick (which I am. I mean, with bronchitis.) So do it! Read this! And tell me it is bad!! (\"Ew, this is awful! taste it!\") Anyway, i'd say 2 stars just because i feel guilty giving only 1 star and I *did* finish it. So, 1.5 stars. Because you know something is wrong when \"It Was Okay\" sounds way too generous... Whe (EDITED: Updated star-status at the end) Is this book really as bad I as I think it is? I need more friends to read this, to reassure me that it really is awful and it's not just that I'm sick (which I am. I mean, with bronchitis.) So do it! Read this! And tell me it is bad!! (\"Ew, this is awful! taste it!\") Anyway, i'd say 2 stars just because i feel guilty giving only 1 star and I *did* finish it. So, 1.5 stars. Because you know something is wrong when \"It Was Okay\" sounds way too generous... Where to start? Could there be a more unlikeable main character? I know I'm not the target audience , age-wise, but geeze, as a female, I'd at least like to like her as a fellow female, even if a young one. And I don't. She's the exact sort of insipid, unintelligent, first-this-man-now-this-one type of female character I don't like. So, there's that straight off the bat. (Shay is a way better character.) And then there is just the whole story telling, which is ridiculous for the most part. I mean, there is this whole section where Tally is with a primitive tribe (no! she really is! I can't even get into the whole 'what is this i don't even...' of that part as a whole) and she notices the women are making a fire for cooking (the men having just been out warrioring about, as it were) and she thinks -- snidely , I might add -- \"oh yeah, i remember in Olden Times women used to get the crappy jobs\". What? Leaving aside the fact that all of a sudden Tally seems to know/remember a lot of things, despite the fact that she was pretty clueless about ancient history in the first book (and this is a big thing to \"leave aside\" because it annoyed the f*** out of me), why on earth would she automatically assume cooking was a crappy job? I mean, she's never cooked. She lives in a society where food comes fully prepared to you pretty much technomagically and it has been this way for hundreds of years . Aside for that extremely brief period out in the wild where *someone* made stew (and I don't think it was Tally and I'm pretty sure it was likely communally done male/female equally), Tally knows jack shit about cooking. Certainly a person like that would never make an assumption that cooking = crappy job so OH NOEZ SEXIST PIGS (another concept that would be entirely alien to her in practice). And she's snide about the issue more than once. Gah. It seems to me that, if anything, given her recent experience Outside the only and/or first thing she would have thought was \"oh! hey! I wonder how THEY go about setting up their fire pit/spits/outdoor kitchens/etc\" in the spirit of this-is-new-and-interesting-to-observe and not this weird misplaced snide feminism for pet's sake. Alright, I'm probably belaboring what seems like a minor point but my point is the book is pretty much entirely full of little points like that. It's awful. And then it all wraps up neatly (not without fanning the flame of LOVE TRIANGLE in the last few pages though! couldn't skip that bit!) and once again Tally (view spoiler) [is captured but instead of all these trouble makers being just done away with -- I mean it hardly seems like a government that goes through all this other trouble with society would balk at that -- now she's going to be SPECIAL (hide spoiler) ] . Egad. My heart wants to give this book one star but my head (sick as it is with bronchitis germs) is going to give it two, for the few bits I liked (Shay and Zane and some of the other characters) and for the fact that I actually did finish it. But I will not be reading the third. ****UDPATE: I am going to have to downgrade this to 1-star. I still stand by that it is 1.5 stars but when I was putting it in the appropriate goodreads \"shelf\", I felt rotten for some other books that were in the 2-star category, that they should be considered the same level as this. For example, the poor ol' Time Baroness . The Time Baroness , for example, is nowhere NEAR as bad as this thing. So, i'm downgrading to 1-star for sake of categorizing but my actual ranking still stands at 1.5. ...more Westerfield has a way of making me want to finish his books in one sitting, but I'm never sure whether that has more with his ability to build suspense or my ongoing desire to have it over with. Pretties , while not a book without merit (if I were being more fair, I would probably give it 3 stars, story-wise) irked me a great deal more than Uglies (which I obviously liked well enough to read its sequel) because of what I consider some poor authorial decisions. For a dystopia intending to critique Westerfield has a way of making me want to finish his books in one sitting, but I'm never sure whether that has more with his ability to build suspense or my ongoing desire to have it over with. Pretties , while not a book without merit (if I were being more fair, I would probably give it 3 stars, story-wise) irked me a great deal more than Uglies (which I obviously liked well enough to read its sequel) because of what I consider some poor authorial decisions. For a dystopia intending to critique the image-obsessed, beauty-myth-worshipping society in which we \"pre-Rusties\" live, Pretties has far too much backhanded endorsement of self-destructive behavior. The Pretties intent on curing themselves of their post-surgical brain damage resort to cutting and self-starvation for the sake of improving their focus, increasing their adrenaline, and producing a \"bubbly\" high. I understand that this can be viewed as the \"false cure\" (although it seems to work well enough for Tally) intended to speak to the reason those same behaviors are used in our own (less explicit) attack on teenage brains. But I'd like to think it's not too much to ask that my anti-pretty heroine not starve herself in order to escape the (literal) clutches of society. Rethink a few of these \"solutions,\" Scott, and I'll read another draft. If only the third book in the trilogy weren't already published. Sigh. Also... oy, with the boy drama already. ...more If I hear word bubbly one more time,I'll kill someone. This was boring as hell.The story is boring,actions of the characters are utterly boring and stupid,the ending is stupid as hell...I'm really disappointed.And there's suddenly a love triangle(really Scott, REALLY ?) The only person I liked in this book was thankfully Tally.That's the only reason I'm giving this book 2 stars.She's really great.Everyone else...not so much.Shay is a freaking idiot and so is Peris.Zane seems like a decent guy,but I If I hear word bubbly one more time,I'll kill someone. This was boring as hell.The story is boring,actions of the characters are utterly boring and stupid,the ending is stupid as hell...I'm really disappointed.And there's suddenly a love triangle(really Scott, REALLY ?) The only person I liked in this book was thankfully Tally.That's the only reason I'm giving this book 2 stars.She's really great.Everyone else...not so much.Shay is a freaking idiot and so is Peris.Zane seems like a decent guy,but I didn't really care for him through the book. But my BIGGEST problem is that idiotic Pretties slang.Bloody hell.I just couldn't stand reading word bogus anymore.(...\u0161a\u0161avo i trulo? STVARNO? Stvarno ljudi ?) Overall,boring and repetitive. PS.Tally-wa and Shay-la?Jesus Christ. Favourite quotes: You know what's the best part of this book? That Virginia Woolf quote Mr.Westerfeld used when starting the chapter three. '' The beauty of the world\u2026has two edges, one of laughter, one of anguish, cutting the heart asunder .'' ...more \"Pretties\" suffers from middle-of-a-trilogy-itis. It has to move the story forward, setting up things to come in the final installment, but it can't necessarily push things too far ahead for fear of losing audiences in the next installment. \"Pretties\" picks up a few months after \"Uglies\" ended with Tally having undergone surgery and become pretty. We're treated to glimpses of her hedonistic lifestyle now, but a lot of the first third of this story had me wondering when the real plot would kick in \"Pretties\" suffers from middle-of-a-trilogy-itis. It has to move the story forward, setting up things to come in the final installment, but it can't necessarily push things too far ahead for fear of losing audiences in the next installment. \"Pretties\" picks up a few months after \"Uglies\" ended with Tally having undergone surgery and become pretty. We're treated to glimpses of her hedonistic lifestyle now, but a lot of the first third of this story had me wondering when the real plot would kick in. In the last novel, Kally agreed to go undercover, get the surgery and then have it reversed so she could return to the Smoke. As \"Pretties\" unfolds, Kally has forgotten this due to the surgery and is more concerned with joining the hot new clicque. She is also developing a new love interest, who seems far more interested in the world outside than in the current situation. In order to recall their ugly, rebellious days, Tally and her new beau must stay \"bubbly.\" During one of these times, Tally is contacted by her old friends, given her letter and given the means to reverse the surgery. Once Tally finds the way to reverse the surgery and begins to try to go back to her old self, things pick up. But a lot of the revelations in the last two-thirds feel incomplete, as if Westerfeld is setting up events and situations for the third novel. In the end, Tally is once again forced to make a choice she doesn't want to in order to save herself. We're set up well for the next book, which hopefully will provide some answers to a lot of the lingering questions left in this story. ...more *Sing to the tune of Blank Space* \"Reading this book felt like torture. Don't say I didn't say I didn't warn ya.\" Angst. The angst is everywhere. I tried with this book, I really did but the plot just got even more muddled after the Uglies. I could not stop myself from rolling my eyes and suppressing the urge to fling this book across the room every 5 minutes. Let's take a moment to look at this synopsis: Tally Youngblood is popular and Prettyville boyfriend Zane leads the Crims gang. But Croy *Sing to the tune of Blank Space* \"Reading this book felt like torture. Don't say I didn't say I didn't warn ya.\" Angst. The angst is everywhere. I tried with this book, I really did but the plot just got even more muddled after the Uglies. I could not stop myself from rolling my eyes and suppressing the urge to fling this book across the room every 5 minutes. Let's take a moment to look at this synopsis: Tally Youngblood is popular and Prettyville boyfriend Zane leads the Crims gang. But Croy from her past smuggles in a message and pills. Her best friend Shay is jealous. Evil Dr Cable from the Specials is in pursuit. How can she reconcile her past, present, and future? I didn't even read this until now but I am literally cringing. This sounds like a melodramatic soap opera or some type of Broadway musical. It got so bad that I wouldn't even be surprised if they just suddenly burst into song, High School Musical style. I don't even know anymore. Right off the bat you're thrust with this new \"pretty\" slang now that Tally has turned Pretty. There's no explanation and you have to define things on your own from here on out. The amount of times they said \"bubbly or bogus\" in this novel is outrageous. I was tempted to claw out my eyeballs. I had no idea know where this story was going, it was all over the place. Tally is pretentious typical YA \"heroine\" who some how thinks she is smart but doesn't have a lick of sense in her. She is constantly has to be coaxed by the male counterpart in order for her to do something it's ridiculous. I'm surprised how quick she rebounded with Zane. *my hope for ya romance falls off a cliff* Zane had as much personality as my big toe. It felt as if he came out of nowhere and all of sudden Tally is dating him and how \"bubbly making\" he is. (You can hear me gagging all across the world) Shay I could stand in the first book but here she became my most hated character. (Even more than Tally. Shocker!! :0) Shay is even more unbelievably annoying in this book that I literally skimmed her dialogue. The fact that she suddenly turned into Tally's nemesis is preposterous. Who knows if I'll even finish this series, but we all know that's totally bogus. (Ha!) ...more If you take the first book and add some slight differences, annoying slang, a more unlikeable Tally, a complete assassination of Shay's character, and a forced love triangle, you basically have this book. The plot of Pretties really is very similar to the plot of Uglies . Tally starts out living in the city, not questioning anything about her life until a new friend shows her there is more to it. She ends up escaping the city and living in the wilderness for a while and then meets up with the rebe If you take the first book and add some slight differences, annoying slang, a more unlikeable Tally, a complete assassination of Shay's character, and a forced love triangle, you basically have this book. The plot of Pretties really is very similar to the plot of Uglies . Tally starts out living in the city, not questioning anything about her life until a new friend shows her there is more to it. She ends up escaping the city and living in the wilderness for a while and then meets up with the rebellion. (view spoiler) [ And the endings are very similar too, it looks like she's dragged back to the city again to be operated on again . (hide spoiler) ] All the hope I had for a decent female friendship between Tally and Shay is crushed. The love triangle that develops in this book is also really irritating and further ruined the book for me. I have no interest in the third book, Tally only became more and more unlikable in this one and I have no hope for her, or the plot, to improve. ...more *******Spoilers ahead****** In Pretties , we once again catch up with our heroine extraordinaire, Tally. Tally has now had the pretty making surgery and is drop dead gorgeous. But being pretty isn't enough for Tally. She wants to be in a special pretty group called the Crims. She and Shay are back in BFF land and all is well with the world. Tally also meets Zane and insta-love is formed. I guess it was insta-love but, again, I didn't see any chemistry at all. All thoughts of David are out the windo *******Spoilers ahead****** In Pretties , we once again catch up with our heroine extraordinaire, Tally. Tally has now had the pretty making surgery and is drop dead gorgeous. But being pretty isn't enough for Tally. She wants to be in a special pretty group called the Crims. She and Shay are back in BFF land and all is well with the world. Tally also meets Zane and insta-love is formed. I guess it was insta-love but, again, I didn't see any chemistry at all. All thoughts of David are out the window now that Tally has Pretty brain. Zane is also conveniently the leader of the Crims. He also knows something is wrong with Pretty brain! For some bizarre reason starving himself makes his mind clearer. Um, ooookay. One of The Smoke show up and direct Tally to a place where some pills are hidden to get rid of the lesions in her brain that are controlling her. Tally is too chicken shit to take the pills, so she and Zane split them. To make a long boring-ass story short, Zane and Tally decide to run away from New Pretty Town and join The Smoke. Zane has been having some bad effects from the pill and needs help. They hijack some hot air balloons, leave the city, then are supposed to jump out in a certain location. Brilliant. Of course, Tally doesn't jump at the right spot and she winds up in an area that contains some backward-ass tribes killing each other. Page filler, anyone? They finally reconvene at The Smoke's new location where Tally sees David once again. In her mind he is completely ugly and she is a total bitch. I mean, honestly, I have never hated a character as much as this one. Not one redeeming quality. At all. Somehow a beacon is triggered and The Smoke once again is going to get invaded by Special Circumstances. But, HOW??? Ahhhhhh, the smart doctors in the city planted a device in Zane's tooth! How genius! They have also attached it to his bone so that even David's doctor mom cannot remove it. Tally, decides to stay with Zane, which means getting carted back to New Pretty Town. Sound familiar? One thing I must note about this book that irked me to no fucking end was the Pretty language. Some examples: Milli-Helens (the fuck that means I have no idea). Bubbly. The cutesie tootsie nicknames like Tally-wa and Shay-la. Brain spinning. And, last but not least, my personal favorite. BOGUS. Where the fuck were Bill and Ted? 1 Ninja-Bunneh ...more Scott Westerfield has a tallent that I enjoy as equally as it annoys me- he can change my mind like a remote control! At the end of the first book in this series, Uglies, I thought that it was the end of the world and that the next book couldn't possibly go the way I wanted it to go! But as I read Pretties, I found that what I had so stubbornly wanted while reading the first book dissolved and I suddenly wanted something else. At the end of this book the feeling of \"Oh no! It's the end of the wo Scott Westerfield has a tallent that I enjoy as equally as it annoys me- he can change my mind like a remote control! At the end of the first book in this series, Uglies, I thought that it was the end of the world and that the next book couldn't possibly go the way I wanted it to go! But as I read Pretties, I found that what I had so stubbornly wanted while reading the first book dissolved and I suddenly wanted something else. At the end of this book the feeling of \"Oh no! It's the end of the world!\" was even more strong than it had been at the end of the first book and what I want is even more solid this time than what I wanted in Uglies was. I'm almost afraid to read the next book, Specials, because I know that he's going to manage to change my mind again, but I don't want my mind to change! That's the masterpiece of it- I'm feeling with each book the same way that the main character, Tally, is feeling. She doesn't want her mind to change, and when it does it seems like the end of the world, until she is used to it and her desires change. Masterful! Masterful! I wonder if he meant to write it that way! Before begining the series, my Sister-in-law warned me that she did't like who Tally ends up with in the end (as a romantic partner), and I thought that I could trick myself into wanting her to end up with \"the wrong guy\" so that I would be happy with the end of the book, but with the way things are going, it looks like my little scheme backfired and I made myself like the \"right guy\" instead of the \"wrong guy\", who she's probably going to end up with. Oh good grief! It's exhausting, trying to beat the system. Yet another thing that makes me feel like I'm one of the characters in the book. ...more 5 Words: Beauty, freedom, pressure, popularity, friendship. One day it was sunny outside, and a girl wanted to read a book. She was already currently reading SEVEN BOOKS but, decided that as great as they were she didn't want them. She wanted some nostalgia for a better/worse time when she was in high school. And this was one of those books she had read all those years ago and it was still on her shelf. She remembered that it was pretty awesome. In fact, it was so awesome that despite reading it 5 Words: Beauty, freedom, pressure, popularity, friendship. One day it was sunny outside, and a girl wanted to read a book. She was already currently reading SEVEN BOOKS but, decided that as great as they were she didn't want them. She wanted some nostalgia for a better/worse time when she was in high school. And this was one of those books she had read all those years ago and it was still on her shelf. She remembered that it was pretty awesome. In fact, it was so awesome that despite reading it ten years ago, and reading almost 200 books every year since, she could remember everything. So she plucked Pretties off of her shelf and sat on a lounger in the middle of the garden on that sunny day, and only put it down once to make a strong black coffee. She read until she had finished the and her shoulders were a bright, burning red, because she got lost in the messed up world in the book and forgot to reapply the factor 50 to her pale, British skin and her shoulders always burn. She knows this and she could feel it happening but PRETTIES. So yeah, I picked this up yesterday, read it in two long sittings with only a break to make coffee in the middle, and I loved it just as much as I did when I first read it ten years ago. God I'm old. I love the characters, the world, the story. I love the conflicts, the pain, the love, the hate. This book has everything and I love it. In terms of the series, READ THEM ALL. IN ORDER. The books themselves are amazing, but the series read in order is INCREDIBLE. This book picks up a little while after the first one, but there's no major gap or confusion. ...more I liked this book better than the first. Maybe it\u2019s because I'm more open to sci-fi or maybe it\u2019s because it was just better. *shrug* Either way I liked it better. And I'm not a big sci-fi reader but I think the world Westerfeld creates is unique and things are explained well without it feeling like an overload of information. I didn't much like how the rusties (being us) are considered stupid but then again in the 1900s people took tape worm pills to lose weight, we know better now. Anyways , get I liked this book better than the first. Maybe it\u2019s because I'm more open to sci-fi or maybe it\u2019s because it was just better. *shrug* Either way I liked it better. And I'm not a big sci-fi reader but I think the world Westerfeld creates is unique and things are explained well without it feeling like an overload of information. I didn't much like how the rusties (being us) are considered stupid but then again in the 1900s people took tape worm pills to lose weight, we know better now. Anyways , getting to the book. I was annoyed at Tally in the beginning of the book but it wasn't her fault I guess. She was prettified after all. Other than that she is a good protagonist, who is a hero just by nature, she is smart and unintentionally responsible. Tally is pretty crafty too. What I most liked about the book was the fact that she was going against the top dogs here and had to find all these sneaky ways to do it. We\u2019ll see if Tally succeeds in the final book. Some things that bothered me: The constant use of words \"bubbly\" and \"bogus.\" I don\u2019t remember futuristic slang being used so much in the first book. I think that it's supposed to be 'pretty talk' but Tally talks and thinks those words even when she isn't thinking pretty. Also, yet ANOTHER LOVE TRIANGLE! I should know by now Tri logy=love tri angle (okay it\u2019s not exactly a trilogy but that is besides the point). The love triangle isn't that big of an issue until near the end. The end was a cliffhanger as usual. ...more Love, Love, Love!!! I totally love it. And here are some of my coments: You learn more about the \"Rusties\" in this one. It was kind of creepy. They refer to us as stupid....Maybe we are. I mean look at what we are doing to the planet that we live on. We are killing the planet. And you know what they say, that there is going to be more and more of us in the future. And she said that the oil thing, killing most of the \"Rusties\", saved the planet. Well, I don't like the \"killing most of the popuatio Love, Love, Love!!! I totally love it. And here are some of my coments: You learn more about the \"Rusties\" in this one. It was kind of creepy. They refer to us as stupid....Maybe we are. I mean look at what we are doing to the planet that we live on. We are killing the planet. And you know what they say, that there is going to be more and more of us in the future. And she said that the oil thing, killing most of the \"Rusties\", saved the planet. Well, I don't like the \"killing most of the popuation\" part, but if you don't find some way to control the popuation and how we use our resoures, then we are all (or most) are going to DIE!!!! And I don't side with the Specials with the controling everyone and giving everyone brain damage. And I don't side with Tally completely ethier. I want a mix of both. Control popuation, simi-set lives, and stuff like that. I want to be bubbly and pretty if you know what I mean. And OMG!!! Talk about a love triangle!!!!! Zane and Daivd! Wow, I feel so sorry for Tally. I mean having a love triangle and dealing with what she did being ugly and what she did being pretty. I mean Tally has some major problems to sort out. I don't want to be her. Well, I guess if you can do all the things she did than you a deal with these problems. I didn't want her to brake-up with Daivd, though. I mean, he was there FIRST and he wanted to go to Tally but he couldn't. So step off Zane. Daivd was first. So that is my coment for Petties. If you want to hear more of my coments on Tally's world well then just wait 'til the next review. Which is for Specials. Stay bubbly! Bye!! ...more Congratulations Mr. Westerfeld, you managed to impress me, amaze me, and convince me to read the third book. When I finished \"Uglies\" (the first book in the series), I was really impressed and looking forward to reading \"Pretties\". 20% into the book, I was starting to feel depressed. What I had hoped for wasn't happening. There was no strong female protagonist, there was nothing new. Well, nothing new except for a new relationship with another boy. Aaaargh! I was worried that I was going to end Congratulations Mr. Westerfeld, you managed to impress me, amaze me, and convince me to read the third book. When I finished \"Uglies\" (the first book in the series), I was really impressed and looking forward to reading \"Pretties\". 20% into the book, I was starting to feel depressed. What I had hoped for wasn't happening. There was no strong female protagonist, there was nothing new. Well, nothing new except for a new relationship with another boy. Aaaargh! I was worried that I was going to end up with another girl unable to choose between Edward/Jacob Peta/Gale situation. And then everything changed. I should have trusted the author a lot more. The book quickly became a page turner. Once again I was sent on a wild ride. New situations, new characters were introduced - and not just for the sake of trying to make the book seem different to its predecessor, these things occurred to drive the plot forward. They slowly revealed that the author has a much bigger plan for this story, a story that he intends to unwind slowly. I am off to read book three - and this time I intend to be more patient while reading the first third! ...more I was going to give this 3 and a half stars because I found it to be a bit dull but when I actually think back at what happened in the book it wasn't that dull, it was just me not being connected to the story I don't connect that well with Tally, I had hopes she'd grow up a bit more in this but she still stayed the same, this made me a bit annoyed as most the book was just tally. The storyline was great but all the fun exciting stuff really happens towards the end, I hated new pretty town and not I was going to give this 3 and a half stars because I found it to be a bit dull but when I actually think back at what happened in the book it wasn't that dull, it was just me not being connected to the story I don't connect that well with Tally, I had hopes she'd grow up a bit more in this but she still stayed the same, this made me a bit annoyed as most the book was just tally. The storyline was great but all the fun exciting stuff really happens towards the end, I hated new pretty town and not having David or any of the other smokies featured more. I did love the new developments and am hoping the last book specials brings this series all together and me and Tally can finally get along ...more Don't judge me, but the first time I have read Uglies, David was a character I didn't like at all, but I ended up having my mind completely changed about him. I honestly wanted more of him and Tally and I expected them to at least share a kiss (for the sake of my little fangirl soul). On the other hand, Zane was someone I didn't enjoy reading about as much as I thought I would, and his and Tally's relationship was really boring for me in some parts. Even though it was a good and fast read I more o Don't judge me, but the first time I have read Uglies, David was a character I didn't like at all, but I ended up having my mind completely changed about him. I honestly wanted more of him and Tally and I expected them to at least share a kiss (for the sake of my little fangirl soul). On the other hand, Zane was someone I didn't enjoy reading about as much as I thought I would, and his and Tally's relationship was really boring for me in some parts. Even though it was a good and fast read I more or less loved, dear mr. Westerfeld, you can't top Uglies with this sequel. I am really looking forward to the last book in this series (+ Extras). ...more I am a 40-something mom falling for YA fiction all over again. Pretties is not as fast-paced as Uglies, but this second installment in the series made me more emotionally involved overall, and made me care more for Tally and the other characters by the end of the book. Be patient with the slower parts--it will build soon and surpass your expectations. <---A>Scott Westerfeld</---A> is brilliant at creating this superficial world and characters, who have created their own future-language. The ending has the pe I am a 40-something mom falling for YA fiction all over again. Pretties is not as fast-paced as Uglies, but this second installment in the series made me more emotionally involved overall, and made me care more for Tally and the other characters by the end of the book. Be patient with the slower parts--it will build soon and surpass your expectations. Scott Westerfeld is brilliant at creating this superficial world and characters, who have created their own future-language. The ending has the perfect cliffhanger, leaving you waiting for Specials... ...more Basically: Yep \u2013 If you have read \u2018Pretties\u2019 then you know what I\u2019m on about. I will die happy if I never hear that word ever again. Once again, I have discovered a novel that defies the stereotype \u2018sequel syndrome\u2019. I enjoyed \u2018Pretties\u2019 more than \u2018Uglies\u2019 \u2013 the characters actually had a bit of depth, the story line picked up tremendously and the action was nothing short of thrilling \u2013 this novel reads like a movie. Seriously. But then again, a love triangle. Really? Is that really necessary? *rol Basically: Yep \u2013 If you have read \u2018Pretties\u2019 then you know what I\u2019m on about. I will die happy if I never hear that word ever again. Once again, I have discovered a novel that defies the stereotype \u2018sequel syndrome\u2019. I enjoyed \u2018Pretties\u2019 more than \u2018Uglies\u2019 \u2013 the characters actually had a bit of depth, the story line picked up tremendously and the action was nothing short of thrilling \u2013 this novel reads like a movie. Seriously. But then again, a love triangle. Really? Is that really necessary? *rolls eyes* One of the things that I enjoyed about this book was the way that the Pretties talked. Their vocabulary was introduced in such a simple way, the reader is able to pick it up as the plot progresses. The new mongrel language reminded me so much of the \u2018impressionable youth\u2019 nowadays - exhibit A \u2018Lets go get some banter\u2019 parallels \"Lets go to a bash Tally-wa!\u201d In fact, several sections of their dialogue was hilarious \u2013 the harmless stupidity was incredibly amusing. Although inevitably I wanted to slap Tally a couple of times, I felt her character really developed. She was actually able to make a couple of half-decent decisions!!! The sidekick, if you will, Zane had some substance \u2013 a welcome contrast to David who was practically 2D. There was one section of the novel which was incredibly unnecessary \u2013 who knows, maybe it will play a part in \u2018Specials\u2019, but it just didn\u2019t seem constructed well enough to be significant in the overall story arc. I pushed through this episode, only to reach a conclusion that was unsettlingly familiar\u2026 I\u2019m not a fan of cyclic stories that just don\u2019t seem to move forward. Scott, please don\u2019t play a Keira Cass on me. Nevertheless, I thoroughly enjoyed \u2018Pretties\u2019, and although it is flawed, yes, I think it is a good development from the initial world building in \u2018Uglies\u2019. If you enjoyed its predecessor, you will also enjoy the sequel. I am very interested to see how this concludes. (Am a little nervous \u2013 in my experience, trilogies don\u2019t wrap up all that well. Unless it is The Infernal Devices, because Cassandra is da queen.) ...more I am beyond dissapointed with this sequel. Uglies was intriguing, making it's society around our world's obsession with apperance. This book was just 350 pages of dull \"action\". I didn't even read most of the book: I just skimmed it so I could move onto Specials. Where did the strong Tally that had developed so well go? She turned into a brainless idiot, never to be seen for the majority of the book. And, worst of all, she's attached to her new boyfriend like glue. Yes, her new boyfriend. THUS, Wes I am beyond dissapointed with this sequel. Uglies was intriguing, making it's society around our world's obsession with apperance. This book was just 350 pages of dull \"action\". I didn't even read most of the book: I just skimmed it so I could move onto Specials. Where did the strong Tally that had developed so well go? She turned into a brainless idiot, never to be seen for the majority of the book. And, worst of all, she's attached to her new boyfriend like glue. Yes, her new boyfriend. THUS, Westerfield inserts one of the most overused plot device: A LOVE TRIANGLE. Alas, the most milked, beaten-with-a-stick plot cycle is now in this book. David vs. Zane This paring is somewhat paced the same as Gale vs. Peeta (from THG): Those two are probably the best written love-triangle I've read, but the problem is, similar to David, Peeta got the whole first book for everyone to fall in love with him, so when Gale (like Zane) comes into the next book, no one bothers to think he has a chance. Only, unlike Gale, Zane is a flat, boring character. All I remember is he's hot and loves Tally. That's IT. Also, I AM TIRED OF BUBBLY AND BOGUS. I wanted to punch whatever character was using \"slang\" at the moment. So, needless to say, I'm less pumped to read Specials after this disaster of a book. I just hope to see some actual development of the plot. EDIT: A few things I need to add: 1: The Hunger Games is most CERTAINLY not centered around a love triangle. 2: This love triangle in Pretties is only similar to the pacing of THG's triangle. Only the triangle is the most prominent part of Pretties/Specials 3: The ending of Specials was so. Predictable. It's. Not. Even. Funny. 4: Again, I understand Hunger Games' triangle is barely even a part of it. But that's another discussion. ...more Stand: 2010 Band eins war ja schon genial, aber Band zwei fand ich sogar noch ein wenig besser. Besonders das Ende des Buches haut einen geradezu um. Ich kann es gar nicht erwarten endlich Band drei in die Finger zu bekommen. Wenn man mit dem Buch beginnt ist man erst einmal geschockt. Es ist schrecklich zu sehen, dass Tally wirklich durch und durch eine Pretty geworden ist. Dass die Operation tats\u00e4chlich etwas bewirkt, sie geradezu \"hirnlos\" macht. Allerdings unterscheidet sich Tally doch noch vo Stand: 2010 Band eins war ja schon genial, aber Band zwei fand ich sogar noch ein wenig besser. Besonders das Ende des Buches haut einen geradezu um. Ich kann es gar nicht erwarten endlich Band drei in die Finger zu bekommen. Wenn man mit dem Buch beginnt ist man erst einmal geschockt. Es ist schrecklich zu sehen, dass Tally wirklich durch und durch eine Pretty geworden ist. Dass die Operation tats\u00e4chlich etwas bewirkt, sie geradezu \"hirnlos\" macht. Allerdings unterscheidet sich Tally doch noch von anderen Pretties. Genau wie Zane. Die Liebesgeschichte zwischen Tally und Zane habe ich sehr zwiegespalten verfolgt. Man hat noch immer die Sache mit David im Hinterkopf. Aber Tally kann sich schlie\u00dflich nicht mehr wirklich an ihn erinnern. Ein toller Konflikt, der hier geschaffen wurde, und den man seehr interessiert verfolgt. Auf ihrem Weg in diesem Buch trifft Tally auch auf ein Reservat in dem die Specials eine Gruppe von Menschen beobachten die in der Wildnis leben. Auch da schwingt wieder deutliche Kritik an der Obrigkeit mit, was mir wieder einmal super gefallen hat. Die Tatsache, dass Tally trotz Gehirnmanipulation noch versucht der Pretty-Welt zu entkommen ist einfach bewundernswert. Denn es ist schlie\u00dflich auch nicht alles Gold, was gl\u00e4nzt. (Hach ja, ein weiser Spruch am Tag, tut doch gut, oder? xD) Generell finde ich, dass das Buch besonders durch die Aussagekraft von Tallys Handlungen und Entscheidungen \u00fcberzeugen kann. Allerdings hat mich Tally als Pretty doch auch ein wenig gest\u00f6rt. Sie selbst kann nat\u00fcrlich nichts f\u00fcr ihre Naivit\u00e4t, aber Scott Westerfeld kann leider schon etwas daf\u00fcr, dass wir diese Naivit\u00e4t zu lesem bekommen. Das hat dem Buch aber auch fast keinen Abbruch getan! ...more A trilogy or a book series where the sequels turn out better than the first installment is a rather rare treat for readers; almost always, the first book is the best. After reading the second book of the Uglies series by Scott Westerfeld, I believe that this trilogy-plus-one is going to be classified in that category. :) Pretties picks up where Uglies left off\u2014Tally Youngblood has finally become a new Pretty and has joined her other friends in the city to live a not-so-bubbly life. The most impor A trilogy or a book series where the sequels turn out better than the first installment is a rather rare treat for readers; almost always, the first book is the best. After reading the second book of the Uglies series by Scott Westerfeld, I believe that this trilogy-plus-one is going to be classified in that category. :) Pretties picks up where Uglies left off\u2014Tally Youngblood has finally become a new Pretty and has joined her other friends in the city to live a not-so-bubbly life. The most important thing a Pretty can do is to party, and you are required to do nothing (until you become a middle Pretty, when you finally have to find a job) but to be lazy, vain, and vapid. Tally seems to be content with her Pretty life until a message from the past brings back Ugly memories. With vague flashbacks surging in her head, she remembers why she has agreed to be surgically altered, and now she and some members of her Pretty clique\u2014the Crims\u2014embark on a journey to escape from the controlling city\u2026.and to be cured. Apparently I enjoyed Pretties more than Uglies for several reasons. The themes that are explored in book 1 are continuously revisited, sometimes providing additional information that gives more light to the topics, answering questions I haven\u2019t even formed when I was reading Uglies. Also, this time, I felt the characters more. Tally as a Pretty is something more palpable than her Ugly self, where it\u2019s supposed to be the other way around (maybe it\u2019s only just me, though). It must be noted, however, that Tally still has this \u2018Ugly\u2019 heart and mind, and she hasn\u2019t really changed completely. So what\u2019s done here\u2019s her character is given more weight for being a Pretty on the surface and still a real Ugly on the inside. There are times where she treads lightly on the Mary Sue grounds, but maybe only it\u2019s because she and a majority of characters in the book are beautiful\u2014I\u2019ve been a bit wary of very pretty characters since the first time I wrote fanfiction. Mary Sue is a big no-no. Still, I liked Tally-wa. :p Zane is a good character as well. It\u2019s a shame that I liked him more than David. What I liked the most about this book? The twists. The latter part, where Tally finally arrives to the New Smoke, contains a chock-full of those. The twist about the cure, the location of the transmitter, Shay\u2019s and the Cutters\u2019 fates, you name them. I loved being surprised. A good read all in all\u2014I\u2019m glad I decided to continue with this series. It\u2019s still a YA book, but a good one at that. ...more Not very bubbly or pretty-making. Rather Bogus. Half a milli-Helen at best my fellow reader-la. (Make sure you over use all of those--as in EVERY TIME a character speaks.) My biggest issue with book 2 was the language, which I just tried to emulate to demonstrate how annoying it is. It seriously sounds like what a middle-aged adult thinks trendy teens might sound like. I had to force myself to stay with it. It was tiresome and clich\u00e9. Add to this the fact the author seems to have forgotten that Not very bubbly or pretty-making. Rather Bogus. Half a milli-Helen at best my fellow reader-la. (Make sure you over use all of those--as in EVERY TIME a character speaks.) My biggest issue with book 2 was the language, which I just tried to emulate to demonstrate how annoying it is. It seriously sounds like what a middle-aged adult thinks trendy teens might sound like. I had to force myself to stay with it. It was tiresome and clich\u00e9. Add to this the fact the author seems to have forgotten that in the last book we were told that the reason for the surgery was to create unity between people. Here, he promptly forgets this by creating exclusive cliques in New Pretty Town. We were also told in the 1st book that no extreme surgeries were allowed that might make one stand out from others, but all of a sudden, they are allowed gems that rotate counter-clockwise in their eyes, heartbeat following tattoos, and other things that take their well-rounded beauty to extremes. It felt like the author forgot what he'd written in book one and was looking for a way to 'future-ize' the trends of New Pretties. It felt contrived and fake. I do, however, really like the main character, Tally. I liked the new character, Zane, and the downward spiral of Shay felt authentic. I'm sad that Peris is still just a sideline, unfulfilled character after being mentioned in both books. He doesn't add much to the storyline and should probably have been a passing mention without trying to write him in. The new love triangle added some much needed angst, and we certainly understand how messed up the thinking is of those in charge now that we've seen a reservation. If you can get past the terrible dialog and stick with it, the storyline is interesting. I am planning on giving book 3 a try, hoping once we are out of New Pretty Town the dialog will improve and the book will be at least as good as book 1. ...more Funny... I liked this book better than the first one. I think the concept is interesting. When Peris asks Tally why she's not happy being a pretty-head...she replies, \"Why am I unhappy? Because the city makes you the way they want you to be, Peris. And I want to be myself. That's why. Peris: Maybe they have good reasons for changing us Tally.\" Tally: Their reasons don't mean anything unless I have a choice, Peris. And they don't give anyone a choice. I guess I've read a lot of books that have a s Funny... I liked this book better than the first one. I think the concept is interesting. When Peris asks Tally why she's not happy being a pretty-head...she replies, \"Why am I unhappy? Because the city makes you the way they want you to be, Peris. And I want to be myself. That's why. Peris: Maybe they have good reasons for changing us Tally.\" Tally: Their reasons don't mean anything unless I have a choice, Peris. And they don't give anyone a choice. I guess I've read a lot of books that have a similar theme (Farenheit 451, some Ayn Rand book, the Alliance, not to mention the book of Genesis (Adam and Eve) They all get at the topic of agency...and what if....we couldn't choose. There is always a hero/heroine who discovers that the power to choose for ourselves is important enough and powerful enough to drive people to face extreme danger and even death. For a member of the LDS church who has lessons in church at least a few times a year about agency...it made me think. Unfortunately at the end...she seems to be discovering that the mind controlling Specials may have had it right all along. It's notable that in order to wake themselves up from this \"pretty-mindedness\" they have to do dangerous things like climb high towers and jump from air balloons. They also find that kissing, getting tattoo's and cutting themselves helps to make them feel more alive. Anything that gives an adrenaline rush I guess. But being in nature and away from their techno world...also gives this rush and I like that part. I give 3 stars because the story intrigued, but again the plot was predictable. I wasn't bothered by the authors preachiness because it's his book and he should be able to say what he wants, but he does insert views on everything from religion to the environment to social roles. If that bugs you...you may not like this book. If you liked Uglies...you'll like this one. ...more This was one of the most annoying books I have ever read in my life. Every other word was totally bubbly which I never really understood what this meant. (I was guessing something along the lines of a futuristic oh my gosh) The first book was what got me to read this book, but it went in a completely different direction. The characters where like different people, the plot had huge gaping holes in it and being in the mind of someone who was mentally impared by the government (the government made This was one of the most annoying books I have ever read in my life. Every other word was totally bubbly which I never really understood what this meant. (I was guessing something along the lines of a futuristic oh my gosh) The first book was what got me to read this book, but it went in a completely different direction. The characters where like different people, the plot had huge gaping holes in it and being in the mind of someone who was mentally impared by the government (the government made their brain nuetral to decrease fights and arguements) was agonizing. I could not stand it. The girl whose point of view the book was in was very annoying and superficial, she turned her back on her friends and was so different from that it kind of made me sad since I did like her in the first book. What I thought was the worst thing of the book (other than the characters) was the plot. It had places where it was so obvious that the event was out of place that it made my head hurt. In the first book these futuristic people supposedly knew little about the past. But in this book everytime something happened the main character had some historical event that she thought related to her life. So I never understood how she knew all of these things that had happened in the past if before she said she never learned about the past. Also in the first book the main characters love interest's mom adored her. In this book out of nowhere she hated her. So that I have no idea what even happened. Overall I did not like this book, but I thought the idea had so much potential. I will not be reading the third book. ...more", "Title": "Pretties"},
