{"Comments": "Is every book set in Ohio? This is the second book in a row that I have read set here in Ohio. The first one, Knockemstiff , was most excellent; Weird Sisters I\u2019m sorry to say was shit. This book was just,<---M> beyond words</---M>, sucky. Gack! I even finished it because I wasn\u2019t going to let it beat me.<---F> Here\u2019s the clever premise</---F>. Three sisters by the names of Bianca, Cordelia , and <---C>Rose</---C> (<---B>short for Roselyn? I just don\u2019t care</---B>) are born to a family who can\u2019t stop reading\u2026..ever. They are born to parents whose nam Is every book set in Ohio? This is the second book in a row that I have read set here in Ohio. The first one, Knockemstiff , was most excellent; Weird Sisters I\u2019m sorry to say was shit. This book was just, beyond words, sucky. Gack! I even finished it because I wasn\u2019t going to let it beat me. Here\u2019s the clever premise. Three sisters by the names of Bianca, Cordelia , and Rose (short for Roselyn? I just don\u2019t care) are born to a family who can\u2019t stop reading\u2026..ever. They are born to parents whose names I don\u2019t recall (and I don\u2019t care), in a fictional town of Barnwell, Ohio, home to Barnwell college (university? I don\u2019t care). Why the author didn\u2019t pick an actual small town university (Ohio has 194 colleges and universities) like Oberlin? I do not know. That would have been the perfect setting for this book, and it would have made it a little more interesting\u2026\u2026\u2026anyway. The dad is a professor at Barmwell, and reads nothing but Shakespeare, and quotes it in every possible moment like Rainman. The guy answers all questions with a Shakespearean quote\u2026\u2026..EVERY FRICKEN ONE! It gets really annoying. Oh, did I mention that the three sisters are named after Shakespearean characters? Duh, of course they are. They mention how guys would make fun of them on dates when they figured out the connection. Oh please! I\u2019m going to say at least 65% of Ohioans have never read Shakespeare at any length, and I think that generous. Of those who have 98% do not have Shakespeare at the forefront of their brains enough to say \u201chey, are you named after the Cordelia in that Shakespeare play?\u201d nuh-uh. I would be more apt to ask \u201chey, are you named after Cordelia from Buffy?\u201d All three sisters are unlikeable. Each character is so flat and not fleshed out that I have no clue what they looked like, and I don\u2019t care. All through the book the author kept reminding us that these people read a lot of books and constantly quote Shakespeare (I GET IT!) , they are elitists. Stupid, stupid, stupid\u2026\u2026..I want those six hours back please. ...more I read about 50 pages of this. I found the unknown narrator irritating-at first I thought I might have missed who was doing the narrating and kept going back to see, but then I realized the book was supposed to be like that, that there was no one narrator; I may be old-fashioned but I like knowing who's doing the narrating in a book. I suppose this can be considered an antinovel since I haven't seen this kind of narration before. I just can't stand it. And, while Shakespeare was a brilliant writ I read about 50 pages of this. I found the unknown narrator irritating-at first I thought I might have missed who was doing the narrating and kept going back to see, but then I realized the book was supposed to be like that, that there was no one narrator; I may be old-fashioned but I like knowing who's doing the narrating in a book. I suppose this can be considered an antinovel since I haven't seen this kind of narration before. I just can't stand it. And, while Shakespeare was a brilliant writer, I hate novels that incorporate his characters-even their names-and worse, quotations from his works. And, it seemed to move at a snail's pace and not much was happening. I kept looking at another book on the table beside my chair and finally the other book won. ...more Absolutely pitch perfect. (I would give this ten out of five stars if I could.) This is the first book I have read that uses a first-person-plural narrative style, and it was so completely appropriate; you get the sense that this book came together with these three sisters sitting around a Pensieve after the events of this book have transpired, looking at them playing out again, and dictating the story to the author, who has set up shop with a typewriter in the adjacent corner of the room. Speakin Absolutely pitch perfect. (I would give this ten out of five stars if I could.) This is the first book I have read that uses a first-person-plural narrative style, and it was so completely appropriate; you get the sense that this book came together with these three sisters sitting around a Pensieve after the events of this book have transpired, looking at them playing out again, and dictating the story to the author, who has set up shop with a typewriter in the adjacent corner of the room. Speaking of the author. What a way with words! It is not hyperbole to say that there is a jewel of prose on nearly every single page of this book. One of the reviews on the back cover talks about it in terms of alchemy-- the magic and science of wordplay, combining everyday and ordinary words into phrases and lines of pure gold. (And the way the author managed to weave in so much of Shakespeare's original words so naturally and seamlessly is certainly another credit to her mastery and skill.) As for the story itself? If this novel were a dissertation, its thesis statement would be found in the first paragraph of page 211. Ultimately, it is a story about identity. Who we are, whether we can change, and how the road of life will always lead us back to the truth of those issues, but so many times, we're too afraid of what we might encounter, and so we take multiple (and completely unnecessary ) detours along the way. Whether you have only brothers or are a single child, this novel will resonate with you. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cSisters keep secrets. Because sisters\u2019 secrets are swords.\u201d This space could probably remain blank and a whole ton of you would go buy <+++>The Weird Sisters</+++> for this little blurb alone . . . There is no problem that a library card can't solve. I should probably leave it at that because I have no clue what to say about this book. Here, allow me to distract you with some giffery . . . . Ahhhh, that\u2019s better. All glory and honor to the H Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cSisters keep secrets. Because sisters\u2019 secrets are swords.\u201d This space could probably remain blank and a whole ton of you would go buy <+++>The Weird Sisters</+++> for this little blurb alone . . . There is no problem that a library card can't solve. I should probably leave it at that because I have no clue what to say about this book. Here, allow me to distract you with some giffery . . . . Ahhhh, that\u2019s better. All glory and honor to the HypnoGoldblum. You will now give me all of your likes and I don\u2019t have to tell you anything about the book at all . . . . Geesh! Calm down future-ex-Mr.KellyandtheBookBoar. So touchy that one is sometimes. My friend Trudi sums The Weird Sisters up best when she says this book isn\u2019t really about anything. It kind of isn\u2019t. The story is about three sisters who gather back at their childhood home to help care for their mother who has been diagnosed with breast cancer. It\u2019s about the secrets each carry and the revealing of those secrets gradually during their stay. It\u2019s sort of a \u201csecond coming of age\u201d \u2013 30-something style. It\u2019s about family . . . . \u201cSee, we love each other. We just don't happen to like each other very much.\u201d This isn\u2019t a book I would have ever picked up on my own. Buuuuuuut in my quest for all things free from the library this was a suggested selection for the Shakespeare-inspired challenge and I immediately put my name on the wait list. I\u2019m glad I did. It might have been a little \u201cchick litty\u201d or \u201cbook clubby\u201d (or whatever other kind of moniker I can give it that will end up ticking someone off even though I don\u2019t mean to) compared to what I normally read, but the writing was so pretty that I never wanted to put it down . . . . Right? Nailed it! This selection was chosen as part of the library\u2019s Winter Reading Challenge. Only TWO more books and the limited edition beer mug will be MIIIIIIIIIIINE! ...more I can't even finish this piece of crap book; it's so juvenile it's insulting. Clearly <---A>Eleanor Brown</---A> just took some extended writing class and thinks she's an author because she's using every cliche and plot technique to prolong a story that's just not interesting. Here are the reasons I know she's an amateur writer: 1) She includes insignificant details that are supposed to make her characters round but really have nothing at all to do with the characters - why is it important to talk about some I can't even finish this piece of crap book; it's so juvenile it's insulting. Clearly Eleanor Brown just took some extended writing class and thinks she's an author because she's using every cliche and plot technique to prolong a story that's just not interesting. Here are the reasons I know she's an amateur writer: 1) She includes insignificant details that are supposed to make her characters round but really have nothing at all to do with the characters - why is it important to talk about someone looking at a goddamn dishtowel? 2) One of the characters is pregnant and OMG! what a GREAT way to move plot along ... the story grows along with the baby and the end of story will culminate with a baby being born. (That's sarcasm). So, so, so unoriginal and not very taxing on an author to come up with a different way to propel plot. 3) How realistic is it that a father, as obsessed as he is with Shakespeare, talks almost entirely in Bardlanguage? 4) Not a single book is named although the characters are constantly reading. Would it hurt to have them read a Bronte? The sisters are stupid, not weird. Each is more mentally challenged than the next, making decisions that aren't well-thought out and have landed them in this shitty situation in the first place. No wonder they hate each other. I don't even know them as characters (thanks to amateur writing) and I don't like them. Ugh. Good riddance and go back to the hell from whence you came! (i.e. return to whatever MFA program spewed this book out) ...more I was struck by a few sentences spoken by the character of Father Aidan on page 305 of my copy of this book: \"There are times in our lives when we have to realize our past is precisely what it is, and we cannot change it. But we can change the story we tell ourselves about it, and by doing that, we can change the future.\" I liked the book and the interactions between the sisters/the sisters and their parents/the sisters and non-family members. It did seem as if some of the character traits or sce I was struck by a few sentences spoken by the character of Father Aidan on page 305 of my copy of this book: \"There are times in our lives when we have to realize our past is precisely what it is, and we cannot change it. But we can change the story we tell ourselves about it, and by doing that, we can change the future.\" I liked the book and the interactions between the sisters/the sisters and their parents/the sisters and non-family members. It did seem as if some of the character traits or scenes were a bit exaggerated. The author used commonly believed ideas about the effects of birth order on personalities to develop her characters. At times, some of the interactions seemed two-dimensional to me. On the other hand, I do believe that we often revert back to habits and interactions of childhood when returning to the nest of the family, no matter what our age. Memories of smells from childhood can have great impact when experienced as an adult. These scenes seemed truer to me than some of the others. The need to be needed and the fact that our parents won't live forever also play parts in the unfolding of this story. I enjoyed reading it, but I don't know that this is a book I will keep. ...more This book sucked. It's about 3 sisters who all end up moving back home to \"help\" their mother while she's battling breast cancer. But they all moved back home at the same time because (as they will readily admit) they are failures. How nice for their mother. The oldest, Rose, is an obnoxious know-it-all who's convinced no one can do anything without her. Everyone else is a total screw up and she (and she alone) will save the day. She's ruining her life in the process but she likes being a martyr This book sucked. It's about 3 sisters who all end up moving back home to \"help\" their mother while she's battling breast cancer. But they all moved back home at the same time because (as they will readily admit) they are failures. How nice for their mother. The oldest, Rose, is an obnoxious know-it-all who's convinced no one can do anything without her. Everyone else is a total screw up and she (and she alone) will save the day. She's ruining her life in the process but she likes being a martyr and pointing out her sisters' weaknesses. The middle child, Bianca, is a vain slut who steals money from her employers to keep up her glamour girl/party girl/slutty girl image in New York. Until she gets caught, fired and threatened with arrest for larceny. The youngest, Cordelia, is a bohemian slut who has spent all of her twenties screwing and hitchhiking her way across the country. For what reason? She doesn't have one. She only comes home when she is homeless, broke, starving and pregnant. What exactly did the terrible, awful parents of these 3 women do to screw them up? Wait for it...the father was a Shakespearean professor who liked to quote Shakespeare and named his daughters after Shakespearean characters and the mother frequently burned dinner because she was as absent minded as the father and liked to read books instead of cook. Seriously? These are obnoxious people who all deserve each other and I deserve to get back the hours it took me to read this crappy book. ...more When their mother is diagnosed with cancer, Bianca and Cordelia find themselves returning home to join their third sister, Rose, who still lives in their hometown. Bean and Cordy aren't returning to support their mother as much as they are impelled by their own messy life situations: Bianca because she has been fired for stealing from her job, and Cordelia because after years of living irresponsibly on the road, she has discovered that she is pregnant. Stalwart Rose has finally glimpsed a chance When their mother is diagnosed with cancer, Bianca and Cordelia find themselves returning home to join their third sister, Rose, who still lives in their hometown. Bean and Cordy aren't returning to support their mother as much as they are impelled by their own messy life situations: Bianca because she has been fired for stealing from her job, and Cordelia because after years of living irresponsibly on the road, she has discovered that she is pregnant. Stalwart Rose has finally glimpsed a chance at happiness, with a beloved fiance and plans to marry in December. Their father is a renowned professor of Shakespeare, which accounts for the oddness of their names and their propensity to communicate emotion to each other in flippant or opaque quotes from The Bard's master works. It is a family of readers, described as people who will set a book down only to have someone else pick it up and wander off with it. As the three sisters are thrown together in their childhood home, the pressures of living together as adults and dealing with their mother's illness and the bizarreness of returning to the quiet town they grew up in causes friction between them. Somehow, they just can't connect with each other, and they revert to bickering like teenagers. The book is told in an unusual first person plural limited voice, which means passages are written \"We did XYZ\" where \"we\" is the sisters. \"We\" seems to know the inner workings of all the sisters' brains and hearts, but the sisters themselves are kept in the dark. This produces an intriguing tension between what the reader knows and what the sisters do, while granting an intimacy with all three. The characters are well-drawn, and while none is wholly lovable, each is totally understandable. The complex, nuanced characterizations are one of the strongest points of the book. The reader gets to sit on the sisters' shoulders as they bump up against each other and spin away again, and it feels like being in the midst of a real sibling conflict, where you're not quite sure WHY you're snapping at your sister, except that 25+ years of history make it too hard to show them the same kindness you'd show a friend. The plot wraps up a little neatly in the end, but I'm willing to forgive that, chalking it up to the Shakespearean influence. If you're a reader or a Shakespeare lover, I highly recommend this novel. ...more We were three sisters who wanted to write a story that was different from any other. Or even if it was a clich\u00e9, at least we could make it seem different by using the first-person plural narrative. And by adding a gimmick \u2013 a father who\u2019s a professor of Shakespeare, so that Shakespearean quotations could be thrown in at convenient times to make the reader feel literary and make us seem different. Rose, the oldest, insisted that she be the overfunctioning sister. \u201cAll sister duos in these books mu We were three sisters who wanted to write a story that was different from any other. Or even if it was a clich\u00e9, at least we could make it seem different by using the first-person plural narrative. And by adding a gimmick \u2013 a father who\u2019s a professor of Shakespeare, so that Shakespearean quotations could be thrown in at convenient times to make the reader feel literary and make us seem different. Rose, the oldest, insisted that she be the overfunctioning sister. \u201cAll sister duos in these books must consist of an overfunctioner and an underfunctioner,\u201d she preached. \u201cBut we\u2019re not a duo,\u201d whined Cordy, the youngest. \u201cHow can we be an overfunctioner and underfunctioner if there are three of us?\u201d Rose, of course, had it all figured out. \u201cThe underfunctioning sister is usually both a slut and a flake,\u201d she said to Cordy and to the middle sister, Bianca. \u201cSo you\u2019ll both be underfunctioners, just one of you will be the slut and one of you will be the flake.\u201d \u201cFine by me,\u201d Bianca drawled, flipping her hair, \u201cOnly I get to be the slut.\u201d \u201cWell, I\u2019m the youngest,\u201d said Cordy, \u201cSo I guess it would fit for me to be the flake.\u201d \u201cNow,\u201d said Rose, ticking another item off her agenda. \u201cHere\u2019s the premise \u2013 are you ready? Life-threatening illness of a family member brings the estranged siblings together. Dysfunction ensues, to be gradually replaced by bonding and the realization that the family is actually more loving than the sisters previously thought. Great idea, isn\u2019t it? And original too.\u201d Bianca and Cordy nodded; after all, as the underfunctioners they didn\u2019t have much of an opinion although they did occasionally talk back or surprise everyone with some uncharacteristically wise insight. \"Okay,\" said Rose. \"Now each of us needs a dilemma, problem, growth opportunity -- you know the shpiel.\" \"How about Bianca gets pregnant?\" asked Cordy. \"Being a slut and all.\" \"Don't be ridiculous, Cordy,\" Bianca snorted. \"That will ruin my slut image, not to mention my figure. Why don't you get pregnant instead?\" \"Do I have to?\" moaned Cordy. \"It's perfect,\" said Rose. \"A perfectly flaky thing to do, and a chance for you to overcome your childishness. But what about you, Bianca?\" \"An affair with a married man, I guess,\" said Bianca. \"And you, Rose?\" \"Well, as the resident overfunctioner, I could realize that I need to stop being so controlling, that the family won't fall apart without me, that I can leave home, follow my dreams...\" \u201cDon\u2019t I at least get a love interest?\u201d begged Cordy. \"It won't be a women's book without romance.\" \u201cDon\u2019t worry,\u201d Rose reassured her. \u201cSomewhere in the first pages we\u2019ll mention that a guy we grew up with has come back to our small town. Like Chekhov\u2019s gun, by the end of the book that guy will be dating one of us \u2013 you, Cordy, I guess, since Bianca will have her married man.\u201d \u201cThat could be another theme,\u201d Cordy said. \u201cLeaving the big city for the small town and finding that experience to be redemptive. That\u2019s pretty unusual.\u201d \u201cThis is getting good,\u201d said Rose, and we all agreed. Rose was starting to have that look of satisfaction we knew so well. \u201cLast thing,\u201d she added, \u201cWe should all love to read. I mean, really love to read. And that fact should be mentioned wherever possible.\u201d We wholeheartedly agreed. After all, our readers would be people who loved to read. And with inspired books like this one, what\u2019s not to love? ...more This book started out great! I loved the quoting Shakespeare and the story itself told by all three sisters. After a while I found the writing annoying. It wasn't always easy to understand what Brown was trying to say. I persevered and by the middle I just wanted to know what happened. I was relieved when I finally finished! I felt that this was basically a very juvenile story and I most certainly would not recommend it to anyone. By the way, this is the first time I am taking the time to review This book started out great! I loved the quoting Shakespeare and the story itself told by all three sisters. After a while I found the writing annoying. It wasn't always easy to understand what Brown was trying to say. I persevered and by the middle I just wanted to know what happened. I was relieved when I finally finished! I felt that this was basically a very juvenile story and I most certainly would not recommend it to anyone. By the way, this is the first time I am taking the time to review a book. I think I am venting because this book had great potential but ultimately just wasted my time! ...more This book is nothing like the kind of thing I choose to read. It is the kind of thing found in the \"New fiction\" section at Barnes and Noble, or \"Literature\" in other places. I'm a genre fiction sort of girl, and so this isn't something I'd have ever read under normal conditions. But, when the Vice President comes flying down the hall to give you her copy because she's sure you'd enjoy it...well.... And to be fair, we did talk about it when we were doing the Walk for the Cure in October, and our This book is nothing like the kind of thing I choose to read. It is the kind of thing found in the \"New fiction\" section at Barnes and Noble, or \"Literature\" in other places. I'm a genre fiction sort of girl, and so this isn't something I'd have ever read under normal conditions. But, when the Vice President comes flying down the hall to give you her copy because she's sure you'd enjoy it...well.... And to be fair, we did talk about it when we were doing the Walk for the Cure in October, and our tastes do overlap considerably. So, I figured--what the heck! I'll give it a go. It was lovely. The narrative voice is...witty, and acerbic, and warm (as appropriate), and just a little odd. Odd in a good way (a very original use of first person). It has three interesting sisters as the protagonists--and this is the chick-lit part that normally I don't go near--who are growing, and learning, and becoming better than they start out the book as. There were some uncomfortable moments, like seeing some of what I like least about myself on the page; some events are near triggers given what is going on in the lives of some friends; and making me feel homesick for the family I've lost, for dreams I abandoned. But, for all that, I'm glad I read it. But, of course, I've gone on too long, a bit incoherently. If I were the father in this novel, I'd simply have said, \"If we shadows have offended, Think but this, and all is mended, That you have but slumber'd here While these visions did appear. And this weak and idle theme, No more yielding but a dream...\" ...more Three sisters, three different outlooks on life, three different opinions about working, three different attitudes concerning just about everything, but they all had the same reason for coming home.....their mother needed help because of her breast cancer. Rose was the practical, organized sister, Bean was the attorney turned thief, and Cordy was still the spoiled child she always was. They all had some secret or concern as they returned to their childhood home. Their childhood home was one of l Three sisters, three different outlooks on life, three different opinions about working, three different attitudes concerning just about everything, but they all had the same reason for coming home.....their mother needed help because of her breast cancer. Rose was the practical, organized sister, Bean was the attorney turned thief, and Cordy was still the spoiled child she always was. They all had some secret or concern as they returned to their childhood home. Their childhood home was one of love, of books, and Shakespearean quotes....the entire family quoted Shakespeare as they spoke and thought nothing of doing so. None of the girls was ever without a book in her hands. Just as in childhood, the adult lives of each sister went opposite ways in terms of interest and responsibility, but their love and concern for each other was evident. The emotions of the characters and the descriptions of situations especially during childhood flashbacks was perfectly depicted allowing the reader to experience the hominess of small town connections and the nostalgia of coming back to your roots. You will enjoy each sister for her strengths and shortcomings, and you will admire their parents for their love of each other and for the love of reading they instilled in their daughters. I really enjoyed this book...if you have sisters, you will cherish it and you will most likely be comparing these characters to see which sister you are!! If you don't have sisters, the bond between all the characters will \"warm your heart\" and have you thinking about your own family and sibling relationships. P. S. The Three Witches or Weird Sisters are characters in William Shakespeare's play Macbeth (c. 1603\u20131607)...information taken from Wikipedia. ...more My TBR pile has grown ridiculously huge of late (my house is hoarding half my public library's precious cargo). Despite this ever-increasing mountain of unread promises, my reading pace has proportionately slowed. At a time when I should be blazing through the pages of every book I pick up, I find myself smelling the proverbial roses. The faster I burn through a book, the more quickly I am to forget it anyway, even the real gems. Plus, life just gets in the way sometimes and it's been doing a da My TBR pile has grown ridiculously huge of late (my house is hoarding half my public library's precious cargo). Despite this ever-increasing mountain of unread promises, my reading pace has proportionately slowed. At a time when I should be blazing through the pages of every book I pick up, I find myself smelling the proverbial roses. The faster I burn through a book, the more quickly I am to forget it anyway, even the real gems. Plus, life just gets in the way sometimes and it's been doing a darn good job of pulling me away from the last few books I've picked up. This one I was more than happy to spend a whole week with, sneaking short sweet moments with it every chance I got. Nothing really happens in this book, but it hums along at a wonderful pace. How could I not be pulled into a story about sisters and the dynamics of small town life, that celebrates books, the Bard, and new beginnings. As Rose, Bean and Cordy show us, no matter how much a life seems utterly derailed, it's never too late to start over. Quite often only through complete failure can we find our way to where we're supposed to be. If that all sounds a little too touchy-feely, hippy-do for you, I won't lie -- it is touchy-feely, hippy-do -- but it's a touchy-feely, hippy-do that's wrapped in staggeringly gorgeous prose and turns of phrase. I nearly drove my boyfriend crazy following him around the house to recite certain passages. I just couldn't resist, Brown uses language that's meant to be read aloud. The novel could have easily descended into an Oprah/Hallmark co-production of the week but it is saved from that nausea-inducing fate by carefully crafted and lovable sisters and language that flows like sparkling water out of a mountain spring (too much? yeah, I should have quit while I was ahead). I'm a zombie-loving girl who needed a break from bleak dystopias and nerve-jangling apocalypses. This book totally fit the bill. ...more Up front, I have to say that when I discovered this novel, I went into it with the truest of intentions. I mean, I come from a family with three sisters--I'm the youngest and I know a little bit about Shakespeare--happen to love Othello and The Taming of the Shrew. But this story just seemed to go into places that I couldn't get into and didn't much care for. Only real quick, this wouldn't be a 'classic' Novelwit2000 review, if I didn't bring up the thing with the names. I thought it was a novel Up front, I have to say that when I discovered this novel, I went into it with the truest of intentions. I mean, I come from a family with three sisters--I'm the youngest and I know a little bit about Shakespeare--happen to love Othello and The Taming of the Shrew. But this story just seemed to go into places that I couldn't get into and didn't much care for. Only real quick, this wouldn't be a 'classic' Novelwit2000 review, if I didn't bring up the thing with the names. I thought it was a novel idea that the three sisters were named after characters from Shakespeare--and maybe we should've left it at that. Only the author wanted to give them these nick names that were essentially their names throughout the story. Now I'll say I get 'Rose' for Rosalind. And 'Cordy' for Cordelia. But how on EARTH do you get 'Bean' for Bianca? To have to read the name Bean practically every page of this book had to be one of the most grating things ever. Only because the name Bean just seemed so...weird. It was a weird choice certainly given how glamorous this character Bean was supposed to be. I mean, the name to me, just NEVER seemed to sit well with her. Might I have suggested a name like 'BeBe' or maybe even the exotic 'Bia'? To me, those names would've been WAY more appropriate. Because to me the name 'Bean' just sounded...well...again I'll say it, WEIRD! (I don't think I can say it enough how so very important it is for an author to get the names right for their characters.) Because to do otherwise, can be a real train wreck. I mean, could you imagine 'Romeo & Diane'? Or if Dorothy's name in the Wizard of Oz was 'Sharon'? This (getting the name right) shouldn't be that hard of a thing to do--but seeing how so many authors out there seem to get this all so very wrong, I guess maybe this IS a hard thing to do after all. Oh well? Moving on... Early on in this book, it's like there was something unsavory about this story. Only because it's like you have a scenario wherein the mom gets sick and it's looking like she's going to need help in her recovery--so here come the troops of her daughters coming back home to give her this help. And this in and of itself, would've been such a noble thing. I mean, I could tell the author that you had a reason for the daughters to come come back home--their mother's illness. That's ALL you needed. Only as the story unfolds, there are all these OTHER reasons why they REALLY came home. And the reasons are pretty MAJOR too! (I won't give anything away.) But what was put on Bean, was just too much. I mean, for what she did, I would think a lawyer would've needed to be involved. That and maybe some jail time. I mean, when you read what happens here, it's kinda REAL hard to accept that with what she's done, she's just allowed to walk. But oh well, that's how the author wanted to fashion this story. Go figure? Also, the thing with Rose being around to take care of things. It's like maybe she's not all that noble after all. And the thing with Cordy finally growing up? Wow, does she pick a real doozy to prove this point! Also, it's something in the rhythm of the writing here. The story would kinda jump around without a lot of preparation and you'd be here or there. And I'd think, wow I guess we're here now. OK, let's see what we got now. I really felt this when Rose went to England. I was thinking (given the situation with her mother) that there would've been a scene where Rose would've lined up her sisters and given them a list of these complete instructions on what to do and everything. Only this didn't happen. (And I could say that because of this LACK of direction, there were times when I felt lost--like there were these gaping holes in the narrative.) We get this again with Cordy too when she abruptly decides to take off. Also, a lot of times I felt like the father in the story was disturbingly eccentric with all of his Shakespearean quoting and stuff. I mean, all I could think was 'just enough' of this would've been all right. But when you do this so much, then it starts being too over the top, pointless and really very distracting. I mean, I would've been more impressed with more REAL dialogue from him. And then it was something about the pacing of the story. It was like the story was supposed to be going in a certain direction, then it would turn the corner and do this segue into things of the past. This was done quite often and I would've appreciated going forward with the story already. So you know, I'll just go forward with my review already! Simply put, I did not care for this novel at all. The characters were not people that I enjoyed being around or getting to know. And they did NOT seem or feel like sisters to me. All in all, I cannot, nor would I EVER recommend this book to anyone. ...more I would have abandoned this book if I hadn't been traveling this week. Much like The Cookbook Collector , it's the story of upper-middle-class sisters testing the boundaries and distinctions between one another, only here there is an additional veneer of literary vanity in the form of copious quotations from Shakespeare. In this book, you see, the sisters' father is a professor specializing in the Bard, so they all quote him as the occasion rises. It's supposed to be clever, but I came away with I would have abandoned this book if I hadn't been traveling this week. Much like The Cookbook Collector , it's the story of upper-middle-class sisters testing the boundaries and distinctions between one another, only here there is an additional veneer of literary vanity in the form of copious quotations from Shakespeare. In this book, you see, the sisters' father is a professor specializing in the Bard, so they all quote him as the occasion rises. It's supposed to be clever, but I came away with the impression that the author wrote this with a concordance to Shakespeare by her side and periodically would look up a word like \"retirement\" and throw in a quote without necessarily understanding it. The author also attempts the type of first-person plural narration used to such good effect in Then We Came to the End . The three sisters are referred to as \"we\" (and \"our parents,\" etc.) but each individually is referred to in the third person, so that you can't tell who is really telling the story--or perhaps they all are. This isn't nearly as interesting as the same device in Joshua Ferris's book, because he makes the reader wonder who the narrator of his story is: is it one of the characters we're reading about; a separate, shy character who is present only on the sidelines; or something else? And as that story goes on, Ferris cleverly whittles down who the narrator(s) might be. Here, there is no such resolution--the author just decided to use the second person when referring to the characters collectively. It seems like nothing more than an affectation. These are the two embellishments that are meant to distinguish this otherwise ordinary story of adult children coming home. (The reason for their homecoming is not Christmas, but their mother's breast cancer treatments, which earns the novel another check on the book club list.) And if I weren't already annoyed by this book's pretensions, the author decided to throw in a librarian character. One of the sisters, who had hitherto distinguished herself as an alcoholic flirt, an adulterer, and an inept embezzler from the small law firm where she worked as a secretary, loved the library as a child, and the librarian suggests that she take over while the older woman recovers from hip replacement surgery. The sister protests that she's unqualified, and the librarian says, \"It's hardly rocket science, dear.\" Later we see this budding bibliophile apparently automate the library in the space of an afternoon. I imagine that the author meant this as a loving tribute to the librarians who taught her to love reading, but really, with fans like these, who needs enemies? ...more When I was in my 20s, for every three \"literary\" works I read, I would read one mystery and one romance novel, the latter for pure escapsism. When I began The Weird Sisters, I was hopeful that it could an ideal combination of fine writing but a fun/easier read. Indeed, Eleanor Brown has beautiful phrases and expressions sprinkled generously througout this book. Unfortunately, it just isn't enough to make The Weird Sisters work for me. In talking about a character's pre-determined fate vs what c When I was in my 20s, for every three \"literary\" works I read, I would read one mystery and one romance novel, the latter for pure escapsism. When I began The Weird Sisters, I was hopeful that it could an ideal combination of fine writing but a fun/easier read. Indeed, Eleanor Brown has beautiful phrases and expressions sprinkled generously througout this book. Unfortunately, it just isn't enough to make The Weird Sisters work for me. In talking about a character's pre-determined fate vs what can be changed, the book one dimensional--each personality doing precisely what the puppeteer dictates. This made for frustrating reading because I would have loved a complex story about sisters. There are shades of Alice Hoffman in this book, without the magic. But here again, Brown overdoes the point that this is an unusual and quirky family so what should be fascinating about them becomes banal. While I wouldn't recommend this book, I am eager to see what Brown writes next because if she marries her excellent use of language with more compelling characters and action, I would be an eager reader. I have one more observation. In reading the reviews of others--both of this book and others--I was diappointed to find abusive language and a complete lack of respect for the author and the potential reader. I think back to my review of Amy Sohn's Motherland, which I debated over because I thought it was harsh. Perhaps it was because I thought Sohn's book was mean. But I I couldn't imagine cursing the author or just flinging negative criticism without backing it up. If we choose to review a book we should do so responsibly. ...more Oh book how I hated thee. Let me count the ways. One detail that bothered me greatly was that these girls were constantly reading, but never does the author tell us what they are reading. I like books about books about books. A book about books this was not. Then there was the disappointing fact that these sisters were in no way weird. They WERE banal, cliche, boring, trite, annoying, and unrealistic. First we have Rose the stuffy, plain, type-A eldest sister who just needs to learn to give up h Oh book how I hated thee. Let me count the ways. One detail that bothered me greatly was that these girls were constantly reading, but never does the author tell us what they are reading. I like books about books about books. A book about books this was not. Then there was the disappointing fact that these sisters were in no way weird. They WERE banal, cliche, boring, trite, annoying, and unrealistic. First we have Rose the stuffy, plain, type-A eldest sister who just needs to learn to give up her dreams of having a career so that she can move on to much more important things like romance. As soon as she can let go of those unladylike old-maidish dreams of hers...WOW she can become a totally different person. Ta Da! She can be a happy housewife with new interests like dropping in to a tai-chi class and living with her perfect husband far far away from that annoying family of hers. Well... I would want to get away too. The other main characters Cordy and Bean are equally hate-able. Bean the stealing slut and Cordy the spacy hippy ho-bag. Luckily in Barnwell where this book takes place, men are just idealistic receptacles where the crazy thirty-something women of the world can dump their crappy personalities and find fulfillment and meaning. Yuck, barf, gag-me-with-a-spoon. I give this book one star because some of the references to the Immortal Bard were interesting and helpful in my goodreads trivia. Also it gets points for the use of first person plural narrative style. That was a bit fresh. ...more A feel-good book, something that will burn your heart with affection to the characters, and at the end will warm your heart with its story. The story is simple - three sisters who were reunited in their home town to aid their ailing mother. There's nothing fancy about the plot, except when you started to read it. What I love about the book is how expected each moment can be, yet there is a dash of twist in each way the story was told. Each sisters has their own story, which they tried to ran away A feel-good book, something that will burn your heart with affection to the characters, and at the end will warm your heart with its story. The story is simple - three sisters who were reunited in their home town to aid their ailing mother. There's nothing fancy about the plot, except when you started to read it. What I love about the book is how expected each moment can be, yet there is a dash of twist in each way the story was told. Each sisters has their own story, which they tried to ran away from, and they found refuge in their old home, where their childhood and fondest, simplest memories started and remains. Being the youngest of a sisterhood of 5, I find the story close to my heart. I understand how hard it can be for the characters to have siblings and argue for attention. Fortunately for me, I'm the youngest, so it's not that hard to seek attention and affection. I wouldn't talk much about the characters, since the reader has to discover each characters weakness and strength to appreciate their story. I love how the characters seems to be real, they aren't perfect, they're just like any ordinary human beings we get to meet everyday. I love the simple but real dramas, the angst, and the pain of each character. If you love your family, or even if you don't, which I also doubt, you'll find this book a heartwarming read. After reading it, I found myself thanking God for sending me 4 obnoxious yet supportive older sisters. ...more Poor Eleanor Brown. I think from reading other reviews she unfairly gets a bad rap. Yes it's true this book is is not high class literature but it is an interesting take on birth order roles and interactions of siblings. It's also true that the characters often are self absorbed malcontents (as one good read reviewer put it) but their struggles, while they may seem superficial to some, feel genuine and their pain real. Also I think the idea of three sibling coming home to care for their ailing m Poor Eleanor Brown. I think from reading other reviews she unfairly gets a bad rap. Yes it's true this book is is not high class literature but it is an interesting take on birth order roles and interactions of siblings. It's also true that the characters often are self absorbed malcontents (as one good read reviewer put it) but their struggles, while they may seem superficial to some, feel genuine and their pain real. Also I think the idea of three sibling coming home to care for their ailing mother would in fact cause all the tension, conflict, jealousies to boil over. Haven't we all at some point been home for the holidays and 48 hours in find ourselves back to being a moody teenager infighting with siblings over whose the favorite, who takes the most responsibly, and who is always able to get away with murder. I know it happens in my house. So to me the Weird sisters represent a true family that may not be completely prepared, mentally or physically, to deal with their sick mother, let alone deal with each other, but they try and fail and try again, and thats how many families work, and there is nothing weird about that. ...more Another unexpected read that I opened by chance and it hooked me, this tale of the three sisters from a reasonably normal small college town family who take quite different life paths only to reunite when thei mother's illness and some major happenings in their life (pregnancy, marriage but also messed up career and heartbreak) brings them back to their home. A fast and engaging read with well drawn characters What bibliophile could resist The Weird Sisters, a story about three book-loving but otherwise very different sisters all named for characters from Shakespeare? I\u2019ve succumbed to its charms twice, reading the book in 2011 and listening to the audio version in 2014. My review from 2011: I loved this satisfying, hopeful, intelligent book from start to finish. It\u2019s a sort of belated coming of age story about three twentysomething, verging on thirtysomething, sisters who grew up in the small college t What bibliophile could resist The Weird Sisters, a story about three book-loving but otherwise very different sisters all named for characters from Shakespeare? I\u2019ve succumbed to its charms twice, reading the book in 2011 and listening to the audio version in 2014. My review from 2011: I loved this satisfying, hopeful, intelligent book from start to finish. It\u2019s a sort of belated coming of age story about three twentysomething, verging on thirtysomething, sisters who grew up in the small college town where their father is employed as a Shakespeare scholar. Their mother has just been diagnosed with cancer and they are all back home to help. Each sister is named for a heroine from Shakespeare and the title, The Weird Sisters, comes of course from Shakespeare\u2019s play Macbeth. When Macbeth was written the word \u201cweird\u201d meant something closer to fate, and the book\u2019s story contains a mixture of determinism, because each sister is influenced by being born with a particular birth order into a household consumed with Shakespeare, and free will, since each sister immediately sets out to carve her own life. When I read in reviews that The Weird Sisters has a first person plural narrator, a \"we\" that includes all three sisters, I pictured a homogenized Greek chorus and was extremely skeptical that the book could delve deeply enough into any of them to be interesting. That turned out to be far from true, and far from being interchangeable these sisters have stark differences that make it hard for them to get along sometimes. Part of why the first person plural works so well though\u2014and it would be worth reading the book for that alone\u2014is that being family the sisters share the same history, have common understandings, and know each other very well. And they all love reading. When a soon to be dumped New York City boyfriend of Bianca\u2019s asks incredulously how she has time to finish a few hundred books a year, she narrows her eyes and in a speech that will thrill reading addicts tells him she doesn\u2019t waste hours flipping through cable channels complaining that nothing is on, doesn\u2019t fritter away her Sundays on pre-game, in-game and post-game TV, and doesn\u2019t hang out every night drinking overpriced beer with other hot shot financial workers. Instead, every moment in line, on the train, or eating she--and her sisters--spend reading. But their differences are as significant as their similarities and all three sisters have big decisions to make. Rosalind, the oldest, has a passion for order, being in charge and staying put, but her fianc\u00e9 wants the two of them to move to England. Bianca, the middle child, has taken great risks, even breaking laws, because she longs for attention, glamour and the kind of cosmopolitan life that can only be found far from their Ohio hometown, but after being fired from her job she has to rethink everything. Cordelia, the youngest, has been living a sort of always on the road hippie vagabond life, but now she\u2019s pregnant and putting off telling anyone or even thinking much about her situation. Part of the book\u2019s charm is its beautiful scenes, especially the ones of common childhood memories, like the time all three sisters danced with wild abandon on their porch, and the time they \u201cborrowed\u201d the family car, even though none of them was old enough to drive, because they wanted oversize, late night ice cream cones. I am hoping for another book from Eleanor Brown. ...more Three women who have sort of failed at life show back up on their parents\u2019 doorstep after finding out their mother has cancer. Eldest sister, Roselyn, is a control freak who uses her mother\u2019s illness as an excuse to stay in her hometown while her fiance teaches in Oxford for a year. Middle sister, Bianca, ditched her small town to live the big city life in New York, embezzled lots of money from her company for designer clothing, skipped out on rent, and charged up her credit cards. Her return to Three women who have sort of failed at life show back up on their parents\u2019 doorstep after finding out their mother has cancer. Eldest sister, Roselyn, is a control freak who uses her mother\u2019s illness as an excuse to stay in her hometown while her fiance teaches in Oxford for a year. Middle sister, Bianca, ditched her small town to live the big city life in New York, embezzled lots of money from her company for designer clothing, skipped out on rent, and charged up her credit cards. Her return to home is a result of being broke with the threat of legal action hanging over her. Cordelia, the youngest, is a wanderer who spent several years after dropping out of school hitchhiking across the country and is now home because she\u2019s pregnant with a child whose father she\u2019s not really sure about. If those names rang a bell to you, it might be because they\u2019re all based on Shakespearean characters, as their father is a Shakespeare professor at the small college in their hometown. The kids, growing up with Shakespeare in their blood, quote the Bard regularly throughout the book, and the father speaks almost exclusively in prose. This is kind of the one thing that makes the family unique: all they seem to care about is Shakespeare and themselves. I hated this book. Diana hated it before me, but by the time I found out her opinion on the book, I\u2019d already bought it, and that cover is just too darn pretty to resist. The first few chapters are interesting enough, but then things just get painful. The characters are undeniably flat and seem to be cast from cookie cutter shapes of how sibling rivalries are supposed to play out. Oldest sister - control freak - shocker! Middle sister - desperate for attention - how novel! Youngest sister - the baby of the family who gets away with everything - you don\u2019t say! Their personalities aren\u2019t endearing at all, either. They\u2019re undeniably stupid, despite all their Shakespeare-quoting, and it\u2019s hard to sit down and read them whining over the mistakes they made over and over again. The plot was boring and kind of propelled by Cordelia\u2019s pregnancy, which was a rather uninspired way to move things along. The author tries to make up for the crappy plot by long, flowery descriptions, which to me, mean very little when nothing is really happening. The voice that this is written in, too, is weird - first person plural. As in \u201cour mother has cancer,\u201d \u201cwe love to read,\u201d etc, etc. Speaking of the sisters\u2019 love of reading, that\u2019s what the author tries to use to make the sisters unique. I\u2019m sorry - tons of people love reading, and with a host of mean, slutty, and selfish characteristics, you can\u2019t make your characters more likeable by giving them one good one that people can relate to. Also, like Diana said, they never really mention the titles of the books they\u2019re reading. Just \u201cshe picked up a book,\u201d \u201cshe brought along a book,\u201d \u201cshe was reading a book\u201d - overwhelmingly lame. This book got some positive reviews on Goodreads, which boggles my mind entirely. I mean, if you enjoy flowery descriptions with a boring plot or are really really really into Shakespeare, maybe you might find some redeeming qualities in it, but for me, I only finished this book so I could write a long review bitching about it for all you lovely followers. <3 ...more Eleanor Brown (the author of this book) spoke at our Staff Day this year. Turns out, she's a board member for our library district. I had no idea. I think I only know 2 of the members on the board since I stopped attending the meetings a few years back. So much has changed. At any rate, Brown was delightful and hilarious as our keynote speaker and I decided we need to be BFFs. But I don't think that's going to happen so, instead, I read this, her first book and now we can't be BFFs because I'm no Eleanor Brown (the author of this book) spoke at our Staff Day this year. Turns out, she's a board member for our library district. I had no idea. I think I only know 2 of the members on the board since I stopped attending the meetings a few years back. So much has changed. At any rate, Brown was delightful and hilarious as our keynote speaker and I decided we need to be BFFs. But I don't think that's going to happen so, instead, I read this, her first book and now we can't be BFFs because I'm not giving this a glowing five-star review and who wants to be friends with people who don't adore you, right? I mean, that can't happen twice in a lifetime, can it? Summary: Three sisters whose father was a Shakespeare professor and whose mother is a dreamer come home to Ohio. Cordelia/Cordy (named from King Lear ) is the youngest, a flighty nomad who just assumes everything will turn out alright until she finds out she\u2019s pregnant and realizes she can't bank on things working out on their own anymore; attention-starved sexpot Bianca/Bean (named from The Taming of the Shrew ) who has been embezzling from the lawfirm for which she\u2019d worked, never thinking about what would happen when she was caught and then she\u2019s caught, fired, and left penniless; and Rosalind/Rose (named from As You Like It but also by any other name?), who never left her hometown because she felt she needed to be near the parents, is an uptight, humorless martyr whose fiance has accepted a teaching position abroad and Rose doesn\u2019t want to go with him. They all move back into their parents' house, Rose to help with her mother, Bean to get back on her feet and reconcile with her recent past, and Cordy because impending baby, and get along about as well as you'd expect while their mother goes to chemo and their father constantly quotes Shakespeare all the damn time. I enjoyed this story but, man, it was a difficult journey because I felt like I was stuck with all these people I didn't like; seriously, I don't think there was one character in this book to whom I felt attached in any way. I completely understand why none of these characters had any friends! None of them! The parents don't have friends, they only have each other and their daughters. The sisters don't have friends, they only have each other and their parents and the men-folk to whom they're attached. The menfolk don't have friends, the neighbors don't have friends, the librarian has no friends and it makes sense because none of them are like-able people. So while this was well-written, it was also tedious. Every few paragraphs, I'd sigh and wonder just how these fictional people manage to survive this fictional world. There were things I did recognize, though, specifically three sisters coming together both because of personal issues and because their mother is diagnosed with cancer. That hit close to home, having just been through the exact same thing this year, though with a dramatically different outcome. For instance, Noelle (she would be the Bianca) and I (I'm the Rose) found out this holiday season that we're not on speaking terms with the youngest (the Cordelia) when our step-dad told us we were the reason she wasn't in attendance for the festivities. Noelle and I shrugged and were all nasty about it with things like, \"Best Christmas present ever!\" and other cruelties. But, really, it was nice to not have the drama at the table this past weekend and I am sure she was happier wherever she was because she would have been able to be herself and to have the spotlight that we consistently deny her. You know what I did really like in this tale? The narrator. The Weird Sisters collective, all three of them as an omniscient unit, tell this story and I was absolutely charmed by that, possibly because I often feel part of a sister triumvirate but also because it was fun to have a classical-type storyteller recounting a contemporary tale. Speaking of contemporary, though, I'm not sure when this was supposed to have taken place. I don't remember mention of cell phones or other mobile devices and there were things that happened that would not fly in these enlightened years but I also never picked up any hints at other decades, either. That caused bemusement now and again. Before I finish, I want to clear up a couple of misconceptions, should someone not realize this story is not representative if the way the world works. 1) Libraries are rarely run by single librarians, even in small towns. When they are, the hours are quite limited, unlike the library in this book that seemed to have been open all the time. In addition, especially nowadays, it would be exceedingly rare for a person off the streets, someone who \"loves the library\", to be given a head librarian job with no prior experience other than spending time in the library as a child. That part is pure fantasy, people, so don't expect it to happen to you. 2) If your mother has had a radical mastectomy followed by radiation and chemo, don't expect her to come home and bake bread with you, not even after a month of convalescence. Just one of those things is hard to bounce back from. All three? Yeah, it takes awhile before moms can be up and moving for such long stretches of time. And if this did take place 20 years ago? Oof. She'd have taken months to heal and bread-baking would not have been on her list of things to do for quite awhile. However, despite those little unrealities and despite the slew of irritation-inducing characters, I enjoyed the story as a whole, especially the narrator. I understand Brown's second novel has been better received so I'll probably listen to that sometime this summer. In the meantime, I'm going to have to start stalking her and convincing her she really wants to be my BFF despite this non-glowing review. ...more I read that Eleanor Brown simply wanted to write a book about families. She claimed that this caused her to incorporate Shakespeare and use the plural narrator. When I read her post on The Debutante Ball, Eleanor Brown claimed that her writing comes \u201chaphazardly\u201d. I, for one, don\u2019t buy it-or if that is true I want some of it! Because the truth is, The Weird Sisters is one of the most unique and most real books I have read lately. Unique and real don\u2019t usually go hand-in-hand, but Brown managed it I read that Eleanor Brown simply wanted to write a book about families. She claimed that this caused her to incorporate Shakespeare and use the plural narrator. When I read her post on The Debutante Ball, Eleanor Brown claimed that her writing comes \u201chaphazardly\u201d. I, for one, don\u2019t buy it-or if that is true I want some of it! Because the truth is, The Weird Sisters is one of the most unique and most real books I have read lately. Unique and real don\u2019t usually go hand-in-hand, but Brown managed it brilliantly. Each of the sisters was just like someone you know, and each one was still completely her own. Brown, in The Weird Sisters, invites you into the world of Shakespeare, but it is tangible, accessible in a way your high school English class wasn\u2019t. Shakespearean language flows out of this book. It lives like the Bard and Brown intended-taking language to a place few writers can. I loved the writing, the characters, and the story of this book. So the only thing left to do is put down what you are reading now and go grab The Weird Sisters. Come on! Even Shakespeare wants you to! ...more This is the story of three sisters who have returned to their Ohio home town to help care for their mother who's receiving treatment for breast cancer. But it turns out that their simultaneous return home is more coincidental than prompted by desire to nurse their mother. All three are escaping their failures in life, all of which are different. The sisters themselves are all very much different from each other, the oldest a controlling homebody, the middle one a promiscuous spendthrift, and the This is the story of three sisters who have returned to their Ohio home town to help care for their mother who's receiving treatment for breast cancer. But it turns out that their simultaneous return home is more coincidental than prompted by desire to nurse their mother. All three are escaping their failures in life, all of which are different. The sisters themselves are all very much different from each other, the oldest a controlling homebody, the middle one a promiscuous spendthrift, and the youngest a wandering hippie-dropout (and pregnant). They all disapprove of the failings in the other two, but only dimly comprehend their own failings. Their interaction takes place within the influence of their upbringing much inculcated by the spirit of their father, a college Shakespearean professor. Their father responds to all situations with an applicable quotation from The Bard. His daughters often do the same. This book is a study of sisterly relationships, and for those searching this book to better understand themselves and their relationships the following quotation succinctly articulates such striving : We think in some ways we have done this ourselves our whole lives, searching for the book that will give us the keys to ourselves, let us into a wholly formed personality as though it were a furnished room to let, as though we could walk in and look around and say to the grey haired landlady behind us, \u201cWe\u2019ll take it.\u201d The voice of the narration mysteriously drifts from omnipresent third person to omnipresent second person speaking for the combined spirit of \"we three sisters\" (and sometimes two sisters examining the third). The author has included a positive disinterested role for a church pastor--something many secular authors fail to do. This is a well written book that made the story of three young women interesting to even an old man such as myself. ...more I really wanted to like this book, but when I found myself putting it down time after time I knew I was kidding myself. First, the sisters were not really weird. They were immature, self-centered, mean, shallow and undeserving. Having five sisters of my own, I really did not identify with any of the characters or relationships in the book. Eventually each sister just got on my nerves. I could see the ending from a mile away. The book was packed with gimmicks. Relationships between sisters can be I really wanted to like this book, but when I found myself putting it down time after time I knew I was kidding myself. First, the sisters were not really weird. They were immature, self-centered, mean, shallow and undeserving. Having five sisters of my own, I really did not identify with any of the characters or relationships in the book. Eventually each sister just got on my nerves. I could see the ending from a mile away. The book was packed with gimmicks. Relationships between sisters can be multi-layered and complex. The premise of the book intrigued me, but it just became unbelievable. Cordy and Bean didn't come home to help care for their mother. One came home because she got fired from her job for stealing, the other because she was pregnant with no place to go. I actually enjoyed the third-person plural (or, first-person plural) narration, but the Shakespearian quotes were overkill. Most readers find an instant connection to characters who also love to read. I think this is what inspired me to actually finish the book. I found the author's insistence that the family were such worldly readers rather ironic. I think they should have all been reading more self-help books. Or, maybe if their father wasn't so eccentric and they got to watch TV they might have been better equiped to deal with life. I come away from the book with two memorable quotes ~ \"There is no problem that a library card can't solve.\" \"See, we love each other. We just don't happen to like each other very much.\" I am glad I got this from my local library and did not pay for it. ...more Predictable plot and predictable characters. Three sisters sterotyped by birth order - the bossy eldest sister, the slutty, attention seeking middle sister and the irresponsible youngest. All returning to live at home using the excuse to care for their mother who has breast cancer. But these three self centered 30 somethings are really just trying to avoid making adult decisions or facing the consequences of their poor decision making. The eldest is so terrifed of change that she is using her mo Predictable plot and predictable characters. Three sisters sterotyped by birth order - the bossy eldest sister, the slutty, attention seeking middle sister and the irresponsible youngest. All returning to live at home using the excuse to care for their mother who has breast cancer. But these three self centered 30 somethings are really just trying to avoid making adult decisions or facing the consequences of their poor decision making. The eldest is so terrifed of change that she is using her mother's illness as an excuse to not visit her finance in London; the middle sister has been fired for embezzeling money from her employer to buy designer clothes (and never considered she could be arrested) and the youngest is pregant from a 2-night stand where she exchanged sex for a place to stay but is excited to have the baby since this will be \"all her's\" rather than a \"hand me down\" from her sisters. The poor mother is just a backdrop to the story and every sterotype of cancer victim is played out as well and the father is characterization of the \"absent minded professor\". The only plot twist is that one of the sisters doesn't get her first love interest. But, the epilogue assures us that they all end up with a man - so that is meant to be the happy ending. I was also distracted throughout the book by the narrator - it was never clear who was narrating the story. I think the author was trying to write in the first person plural point of view - but it wasn't effectively done. ...more I read this on a whim without even bothering to read the blurb in its entirety (A pretty cover gets me all the time\u2026 well, that and the continuous marketing.) The farthest I got into said blurb was that the characters had been named after some of Shakespeare\u2019s female characters. From this I (mistakenly) deduced that WS would be a composite modern retelling of something. NOT... (Sometimes, I'm such a doof!) This could not be farther from that. To be frank it is almost as if these women were meant I read this on a whim without even bothering to read the blurb in its entirety (A pretty cover gets me all the time\u2026 well, that and the continuous marketing.) The farthest I got into said blurb was that the characters had been named after some of Shakespeare\u2019s female characters. From this I (mistakenly) deduced that WS would be a composite modern retelling of something. NOT... (Sometimes, I'm such a doof!) This could not be farther from that. To be frank it is almost as if these women were meant to live the lives of the characters whose names they bore. Initially, I found the collective \u201cwe\u201d narrator odd to say the least. I could not figure out who was talking: Was it Rose? Was it Cordy? Was it Bean/Bianca? Or maybe it was the two against one, or the three of them as separate individuals, that is mentioned in the book. After the novelty wore off I got used to it. Then there's the fact that the author starts off by basically saying that not all sisters are each others BFF was honest, I thought. The book did not knock my socks off - the roles that each sister played based on the chronology of birth was stereotypical, but it did let me sneak a peak into the why\u2019s behind who they were and\u2026 Well, NO wonder they turned out the way they did! Suffice to say, Rose, Bean and Cordy are definitely not perfect. One has quit her job as a result of some scandalous (view spoiler) [ criminal? (hide spoiler) ] events; one thinks things will fall apart without her in the picture; and another had found herself pregnant and at loose ends. They all end up back home: (What follows is a needlessly long look into my opinion of the characters. Skipping it is fine. :)) Rosalind is the eldest and likes to be in charge. Control. She likes control, she needs t. I like the way the author explains how Rose ended up being such a controlling individual. She is the most sympathetic character for me, maybe because I see a little myself in her\u2026 Yes, I am a controlling freak\u2026 ask any of my sibs; they hate it too. Then there\u2019s Bianca who is definitely not perfect. Perhaps it is just me but I disliked this sister the most. I do not like bombshell seductress types. Now, give me bombshell type, down on her luck and yet still with a sense of humor (ala Susan Elizabeth Philipps\u2019s female in Ain\u2019t She Sweet ) and I might have found Bianca/Bean a bit more tolerable\u2026 but she just came across as dislikeable (made up word alert.) Was it because it never crossed her mind that to take money that wasn\u2019t hers could be construed as CRIMINAL? A little (I mean hello! Anyone home in there?) Was it her constantly hitting on men? Perhaps. Was it her inability to face up to the situation she had made for herself? Yes. I\u2019ll take a kick ass/bad ass/ down on her luck heroine any day over a woman with a come-hither glance that (for things beyond my knowledge) just works on men. Then Cordy. Oh Cordy, Cordy, Cordy\u2026 the youngest. Take any negative stereotype of the youngest sibling and you have Cordy. Apple of the father\u2019s eye. Spoiled. Entitled. What surprised me the most was her take on her situation. In her mind, their parents had been worn out by the time that she was born so there was hardly an instance where they would deny her what she wanted. I like how she says she was treated like a toy\u2026 coddled, but otherwise ignored. Again, the Weird Sisters are imperfect. ...more I often felt the lack of a sister in my life. Having brothers is wonderful, and they each brought women into their lives as wives, who, I feel, have bridged the \"no sister\" gap of my childhood. But my wish for a sister was more of the idealized best friend version, not the nitty gritty realism of complex relationships. Just because my mother and her sister had a wonderful fit wouldn't guarantee that if I had a sister from birth, we might get along about as well as I did with my elementary school I often felt the lack of a sister in my life. Having brothers is wonderful, and they each brought women into their lives as wives, who, I feel, have bridged the \"no sister\" gap of my childhood. But my wish for a sister was more of the idealized best friend version, not the nitty gritty realism of complex relationships. Just because my mother and her sister had a wonderful fit wouldn't guarantee that if I had a sister from birth, we might get along about as well as I did with my elementary school arch enemy. The sisters in this book, each named after one of Shakespeare's leading ladies, are as different as chalk and cheese, or maybe as different as Hermia and Helena. Yet they work together, clash, love, and forge ahead in a wonderful fashion, united in their different views of how to make life work for their parents, when illness rears its unwelcome head. One of the things I liked the most about this book was the fluid p.o.v. of the narrator -- the weird sisters themselves, sliding easily from sister to sister, or sisters, never identifying who was speaking, but always sister. I've never read a book with this type of constant, yet changing narrative, always \"we\" and \"our\", never in the singular. ...more \"Our Family has always communicated its deepest feelings through the words of a man who has been dead for almost four hundred years.\" P.127 \"Could people change? Or would we remain this way, forever and ever? Would Bean always be chasing one man or another, Cordy eternally chasing some shadow of a person she might never become, and Rose herself chasing some shadow of the way things were Supposed to Be?\" P.119 These quotes basically sum up the plot of The Weird Sisters . The Weird Sisters is ki \"Our Family has always communicated its deepest feelings through the words of a man who has been dead for almost four hundred years.\" P.127 \"Could people change? Or would we remain this way, forever and ever? Would Bean always be chasing one man or another, Cordy eternally chasing some shadow of a person she might never become, and Rose herself chasing some shadow of the way things were Supposed to Be?\" P.119 These quotes basically sum up the plot of The Weird Sisters . The Weird Sisters is kinda weird. Not in characters of the sisters themselves, I've seen these people or similar in life and other books but in it's composition. I had a rocky start with this book and it took me a good minute to get in tune with the voice of this book. For a long time I didn't know who was speaking. One of the characters or the anonymous invisible narrator, as which is with some books. I still don't completely know who told the story. My guess would be some spirit of the three sisters because at alternate times you think it's one or the other sisters. The other thing that was off putting was the constant quoting of Shakespeare. As per the quote, this family quotes Shakespeare with almost every other sentence. You can't really turn a page without some supposed appropriate quote. The last unpleasantry was that it was kind of a slow start. Slow to get the reader up to speed with what exactly is going on. Almost a quarter in I finally became truly interested and stopped fighting myself about actually putting it down. Behind all these niggling little annoyances there is a pretty good story. Of course, this book is not getting anything near a perfect score for these very reasons. Maybe to the author, editor, publishing and some readers all the aforementioned pet peeves gave this book character but to me it really got on my nerves and prohibited me from reading swiftly through what could have been a better book. Can you imagine talking to a person or living with family members that \"constantly\" quoted the confusing Ye Ole English of Shakespeare??!! What the hell are you talking about? Nerve wracking. Don't make me sift through this. If I want to read Ye Ole English, I will. Please just say what you mean. All that being said... I eventually did like the book and the sisters. Rosalind aka Rose, Bianca aka Bean and Cordelia aka Cordy Andreas, all three sisters named after Shakespearean heroines, grew on me. When I finally got a feel for who they were and what their stories were, I couldn't seem to put the thing down. When I did put it down, I'd wonder what was going to happen to them or their poor mother battling cancer that I'd pick it up again. Like some soap opera you don't know why you're watching, yet you're addicted. You've just got to keep tuning in to The Weird Sisters drama. For that I'm thankful. The curiosity and the addiction is what dragged me through to the end of the book reading into the small hours of the night. I did enjoy the theme that, life happens. We all fall down, become scared or confused but we can always turn our lives around. That happiness isn't where we go but what we resign to become inside. This was evident in so many ways throughout the characters story. I liked how though they had their issues they were still very much a family and embraced each other when they needed it most. I liked the metamorphosis that we saw within each of them. I did feel akin to their constant constant reading of books. If this was the \"weird\" reference, to those of us who are in so much total love and adoration with books, \"weird\"... not so much. Actually not at all. Do I recommend? Sure, why not. But get ready for that Shakespeare bombardment. Or maybe if you like him, dive in this is for you! Contemporary readers, Chick lit readers, people who like reading family dramas I'm sure will enjoy this. For the score, going with a 3 stars. Feel free to read the jacket/synopsis for anything I didn't get too deep on. I'm ready for my next book. Done. ...more", "Title": "The Weird Sisters"},
