{"Comments": "Its awkward to read a memoir when you don't like the subject. It's awkward to read religious propaganda from a religion you don't subscribe to or ever intend to subscribe to. And it's really awkward to feel the terrible sadness of a real person's death while gawking at the absurdity of her family and friends' visions of angels and spirits. I have to admit I started off with the idea that I wasn't going to like Same Kind of Different As Me. I'd read some reviews and they were largely polarized, wi Its awkward to read a memoir when you don't like the subject. It's awkward to read religious propaganda from a religion you don't subscribe to or ever intend to subscribe to. And it's really awkward to feel the terrible sadness of a real person's death while gawking at the absurdity of her family and friends' visions of angels and spirits. I have to admit I started off with the idea that I wasn't going to like Same Kind of Different As Me. I'd read some reviews and they were largely polarized, with religious folks loving it and everyone else complaining about the preachiness. I fully expected to be in the second camp and got to my nit-picking right away. One of my pet peeves is book (<---B>and movie</---B>) descriptions that are not accurate. The subtitle is: A Modern-Day Slave,<---M> and International Art Dealer</---M>, and the Unlikely Woman Who Bound Them Together.<---F> No no no</---F>. Yes in his early years, Denver was a \"modern-day slave\" and lived through shit that most of us cannot imagine. However, he left that life 40+ years ago, and I'd not call the 1960s \"modern day\". While we're on the topic of slavery, isn't the word \"bound\" kind of in poor taste? And if anyone is going to bring together a wealthy snob and a jaded homeless man, a wealthy person with a passion for serving the homeless seems to be the most likely person to make the introduction (or is it unlikely for any wealthy person to be genuinely philanthropic?). Once I got beyond the book jacket things didn't get a whole lot better. While, Denver's story was fascinating, Ron came across like a egomaniac, a woman-hating rich guy pushing his religion. Eventually the cancer story kicked into one heart breaking scene after another and I finally started to become involved with the story and my opinion of Ron slowly climbed. In the end, I did find the book to be inspirational from a civic-works kind of context and I was able to dig out a few pearls of wisdom from Denver's messages. Once I realized I was reading evangelical propaganda, it all made a little more sense. (Make no mistake this isn't a memoir that happens to be religious, it's published by a publisher who deals exclusively in Christian books.) In a way, I read it as kind of a social-studies text-a view into a world I don't normally see. There are people who believe this stuff and talk like this and attempt to disguise their proselytizing as humanitarian work. Ron and Deborah are probably supposed to be roll models. I could see that the things I disliked about Ron are part of that whole culture. In all, Same Kind of Different As Me reinforced some of the negative stereotypes I already had about evangelicals. I wish that wasn't the case as I'd like to be less judgmental. Denver's fascinating early life, Deborah's good works, her good intentions and her emotional story all lead me to like this book more than I'd expected to. But the self congratulations, religiousness and propaganda subtracted largely from my ability to like this book. ...more This was a book group selection, not my own selection. I didn't like it, I thought the style was atrocious, and ultimately I didn't believe one of the narrators (the art dealer). I thought the \"modern day slave's\" story was absolutely fascinating, but the rich white art dealer was too busy telling us how much better a Christian he was than anyone else. His faith did not sound sincere to me; I felt like he was constantly clubbing me over the head with it. Please note: some of my book group felt th This was a book group selection, not my own selection. I didn't like it, I thought the style was atrocious, and ultimately I didn't believe one of the narrators (the art dealer). I thought the \"modern day slave's\" story was absolutely fascinating, but the rich white art dealer was too busy telling us how much better a Christian he was than anyone else. His faith did not sound sincere to me; I felt like he was constantly clubbing me over the head with it. Please note: some of my book group felt the same way I did, but some felt it was the art dealer's love story to his deceased wife. Some thought it was touching and cried. Didn't have any emotional resonance with me, though. ...more I am currently reading this book; I saw it in Walmart and I didn't pick it up then, but I just had to get a copy of this book. I'll hold judgement for now but from what I've read, I am touched. No, it may not be the most well written book, it may not be this or that, but if it touches lives, I'm down for it anyday and from what I see here, that's what it's doing. Well, I finished this within a day and I tell you, I wanted to grab a hanky and cry when Debbie died. One thing that struck me most wa I am currently reading this book; I saw it in Walmart and I didn't pick it up then, but I just had to get a copy of this book. I'll hold judgement for now but from what I've read, I am touched. No, it may not be the most well written book, it may not be this or that, but if it touches lives, I'm down for it anyday and from what I see here, that's what it's doing. Well, I finished this within a day and I tell you, I wanted to grab a hanky and cry when Debbie died. One thing that struck me most was when she called up the lady with whom Ron had an affair with and told her that she knew about her, she hoped she find someone that would love and honor her one day, and that she took the blame for what went down in the affair, but that she was going to be working hard on keeping her marriage and if she did her job right, she wouldn't be hearing from Ron again. I tell you, a LOT of us could have learned a lesson from this lady because she handled it with style and grace. With that said, let me move on to Denver. Denver and the things he went through was sad. I thought he would talk about how things were, and he did but to a point. I felt bad when he lost his grandmother, father, and other family members because I truly felt he needed them. I wanted to truly weep when he talked about the fire that took his paternal grandmother and cousin. I wanted to weep when he talked about working but that all in all, \"the man\" was fair because if they \"ALL\" was rich, then no one wanted to work. I believe in God and his miracles and I truly believe that He performed one when Debbie and Ron went to the homeless mission and tried to help the folks there. I only hope and pray that coming away from this book that folks get touched enough to help someone like Debbie and Ron did and make this world a more better place. ...more Book Club Discussion Book. I would never have chosen this book to read but it was our Jan Book Club read and that is how this book ended up on my list. I didn't enjoy the book however our group had a terrific discussion that lasted for 1.5 hours and I was quite surprised what a great discussion we got from this one. This book has rated very high on GoodReads and many readers have found it inspiring. Based on a true story. Denver is a man who was raised under plantation-style slavery in Louisiana in Book Club Discussion Book. I would never have chosen this book to read but it was our Jan Book Club read and that is how this book ended up on my list. I didn't enjoy the book however our group had a terrific discussion that lasted for 1.5 hours and I was quite surprised what a great discussion we got from this one. This book has rated very high on GoodReads and many readers have found it inspiring. Based on a true story. Denver is a man who was raised under plantation-style slavery in Louisiana in the 1960s; eventually escaped by hopping a train to wander, homeless, for eighteen years on the streets of Dallas, Texas. Ron, an international arts dealer married to Debbie housewife and a woman with extraordinary faith and a want to help those less fortunate than herself. When Ron and Debbie volunteer at a homeless they befriend Denver and all their life's are changed forever This is a very spiritual book and is full of spiritual phases so much so that I found it quite preachy and a little off putting . I liked Denver's story although I didn't feel I got to know him as much as I wanted to and felt that the book left out quite large and important parts of his life and seemed to just give the reader what was necessary. I didn't connect with Ron at all and just couldn't relate to him and his story. His wife Debbie did seem like an amazing charismatic and angel like person and I am not sure this book did her justice. I thought the story was poorly written and seemed to drag quite a bit in places. I did read that the book has raised a vast amount of money for charity so that is a wonderful achievement and great to see so many homeless people benefit from the proceeds of this book. While only 2 off our group of 11 enjoyed the read everybody agreed that it was a wonderful discussion book. ...more i had no idea this was printed by a division of nelson, a christian publisher or i would not have read it. but i am glad i did as it raised more questions than it answered and was fantastic on so many levels. the mystery, magic and miracles described...the fascinating story of denver...a modern day slave, and the question of the value of prayer for anyone, believer or not was thot provoking for the hardline evangelical. but denver's life, dialect/speech and history was the highlight. the chapter i had no idea this was printed by a division of nelson, a christian publisher or i would not have read it. but i am glad i did as it raised more questions than it answered and was fantastic on so many levels. the mystery, magic and miracles described...the fascinating story of denver...a modern day slave, and the question of the value of prayer for anyone, believer or not was thot provoking for the hardline evangelical. but denver's life, dialect/speech and history was the highlight. the chapters alternate between rich white man and illiterate 55-70 year old black man. ...more Definitely heartwarming. A feel-good book and an appropriate one to usher this season of love. I made the right decision to pick this up to celebrate the start of Advent. This is a story of three people whose lives intersect beautifully resulting to their realizations of who they are and what they are capable to accept. This acceptance leads not only for them to be at peace with themselves but also to witness a modern miracle: how faith can influence other people to do whatever good they can do f Definitely heartwarming. A feel-good book and an appropriate one to usher this season of love. I made the right decision to pick this up to celebrate the start of Advent. This is a story of three people whose lives intersect beautifully resulting to their realizations of who they are and what they are capable to accept. This acceptance leads not only for them to be at peace with themselves but also to witness a modern miracle: how faith can influence other people to do whatever good they can do for others. I always believe that our appreciation of the books we are reading is influenced by those that we read right before or those books that we read simultaneously. I think reading too much fantasy (courtesy of Murakami's 1Q84) and tragedy (courtesy of Amado V. Hernandez's Luha ng Buwaya) made my heart a bit jagged so I had to pick up this book for the much needed diversion. Compared to the two I mentioned, <+++>Same Kind of Different as Me</+++> is a straightforward and an inspiring story. Denver is a young black man who escapes the hardships in the sharecropping farms in Louisiana. Homeless, he comes to the city, and meets Ron whose wife, Debby is suffering from cancer. What comes next seems like a worn-out plot from many novels of this kind but Hall's narrative is truly heartfelt most probably because this is based on a true story. There is now really a Deborah Memorial Hall in the US. The book was #11 on the January 9th, 2009 New York Times Best Seller list for paperback non-fiction. A total of at least 300,000 copies have been sold worldwide. (Source: Wiki). If you feel like getting some dose of inspiring and heartwarming reads this Christmas, consider this book! ...more Like some of my other most rewarding reads, this is one that \"snuck up on me.\" I'd read and liked a review of it by a Goodreads friend some time ago, but I read and like a LOT of reviews; so I'd long since forgotten that I'd ever heard of the book when someone donated a copy to the library where I work. But I thought the call number/classification assigned to it by the Library of Congress looked dubious, and decided to read it in order to make my own judgment. It proved to be a very powerful and Like some of my other most rewarding reads, this is one that \"snuck up on me.\" I'd read and liked a review of it by a Goodreads friend some time ago, but I read and like a LOT of reviews; so I'd long since forgotten that I'd ever heard of the book when someone donated a copy to the library where I work. But I thought the call number/classification assigned to it by the Library of Congress looked dubious, and decided to read it in order to make my own judgment. It proved to be a very powerful and meaningful reading experience, which I'm very glad to have stumbled upon, even by accident! Authors <---A>Ron Hall</---A> and Denver Moore alternate in the telling of their life stories, beginning in childhood. Lynn Vincent's contribution was apparently to splice them together --and probably to write down Moore's oral narrative, since he is, or at least was when the book was written, illiterate. (To her credit, she didn't attempt to change his simple dialect into polished \"standard\" English.) Moore was apparently born in ca. 1936, Hall in the late 1940s; they didn't meet until 1998, so most of their life stories proceeded along separate tracks. The story of God's working in both of their lives after they met, however, occupies more than half of the book. These are two very disparate men, unlikely to imagine as acquaintances, let alone friends. Hall was a white Texas boy, from a working class Ft. Worth neighborhood, who used college as a ticket to a more affluent life and ultimately became a wealthy art dealer. Along the way, he'd become an evangelical Christian; but his religion hadn't radically impacted his life, and he had his share of fashionable prejudices about the homeless. Moore was from a family of black sharecroppers in Louisiana, living in a condition of virtual peonage, who stowed away on a train in his late 20s and wound up in Ft. Worth, where he spent most of the next decades of his life (except for a ten-year stint in Angola Prison, and before that some time in Los Angeles) homeless on the street. (He'd been baptized as a child, and had devout adults in his life then; but in adulthood, faith hadn't played any big role in his life.) Although she doesn't contribute a first-person strand of her own to this memoir, however, this is also the life story of Ron's wife Deborah. The couple became Christians early in their married life, but she took her faith more seriously and let it shape her more deeply. In 1998, she felt called by God to volunteer some time at Ft. Worth's Union Gospel Mission, which ministered to the poor and homeless. She also felt that Ron should join her, which he did reluctantly. When Denver came to their attention, she felt impressed that God had an important destiny in mind for him, and that he and Ron should become friends. (That was not, at the time, very high on either man's to-do list!) What follows is a remarkable true story of what Christian readers will recognize as the marvelous working of God, which changed not only both men's lives but those of many others. Though this is nonfiction, it reads like a novel. While they don't go into sordid detail for its own sake, neither man sanitizes his life story; they're two flawed human beings touched by God. They aren't writing to make us think that they're wonderful, but to help us recognize that God is wonderful. Along the way, they touch on some profound modern social problems: racism, poverty, exploitation, technological unemployment, homelessness. And they grapple with life's tragedies, in which the bad things that happen to good people we love make \"the problem of theodicy\" an inescapable part of life instead of a theological conundrum. There's also an implicit message here about Christian social responsibility. But it's first and foremost a story of the what the liberating grace of God can do in the midst of a very fallen and cursed world, when we respond to Him in faith and self-surrender. Special appended features of the book include about two and a half pages of discussion questions about themes raised in the book, a four-page interview with the authors by the publisher (\"TN\" stands for Thomas Nelson), and nine pages of black-and-white photographs. There are parts of this book that will tear your heart apart. But it's ultimately a very beautiful and luminous story, and IMO a great faith builder. I give it my highest possible recommendation! ...more The first thing I noticed about this book is that it was reviewed by Barbara Bush, and her review made me throw up in my mouth a little. (In case anybody is interested, when I hear the name \"Barbara Bush\", I hear again Barbara's voice on the radio during the aftermath of Katrina, saying how the shattered former New Orleanians at the Houston shelter \"never had it so good.\" I will never forgive her for that. And Laura! Laura couldn't even remember the name of the hurricane) Somehow this book had t The first thing I noticed about this book is that it was reviewed by Barbara Bush, and her review made me throw up in my mouth a little. (In case anybody is interested, when I hear the name \"Barbara Bush\", I hear again Barbara's voice on the radio during the aftermath of Katrina, saying how the shattered former New Orleanians at the Houston shelter \"never had it so good.\" I will never forgive her for that. And Laura! Laura couldn't even remember the name of the hurricane) Somehow this book had that weirdly clueless quality that I associate with the Bushes. I feel a little bad about saying that; it's a sweet little book, and clearly the protagonists (Denver, 61 and black and homeless, and Ron, 55 and rich and white) tried to be as honest as they could in telling their stories. But this is a memoir, and what makes memoirs resonate is complete honesty: telling the bad as well as the good. Ron and Denver try to tell the bad and the good about themselves, but they just can't bring themselves to say anything bad about Ron's wife Deborah, whom they both view as a perfect saint. Maybe she was all they say she was; but humanity, not divinity, is what makes saints interesting. If you leave out their warts, they become two-dimensional, and that's how Deborah comes off; and that made the whole story kind of...precious. And I don't mean that nicely. ...more When I was at FSU, a girl came up to me in the public restrooms and started chatting with me. She was very nice and friendly, but at the end of the conversation, just like that, she invited me to go on a Christian retreat with her. I was very put off by this. She'd maybe talked to me for 2 minutes and proceeded to invite me to a whole weekend activity as if we were old friends. That's kind of how this book made me feel. Just as I'm getting to know the characters and their backgrounds, suddenly t When I was at FSU, a girl came up to me in the public restrooms and started chatting with me. She was very nice and friendly, but at the end of the conversation, just like that, she invited me to go on a Christian retreat with her. I was very put off by this. She'd maybe talked to me for 2 minutes and proceeded to invite me to a whole weekend activity as if we were old friends. That's kind of how this book made me feel. Just as I'm getting to know the characters and their backgrounds, suddenly they start talking religion--they see visions and angels, have prayer circles constantly, and, in general, put me off. Not that I'm not religious, and believe in angels, visions, and praying, but it just seemed too in-your-face to me. That said, I still think it's a worthwhile read and would be interested to hear what other people think. ...more Admittedly the broken english title \"<+++>Same Kind of Different as Me</+++>\" piqued my interest and boy did I enjoy this book. It is an autobigraphy of two men and the miraculous events that were orchestrated bringing two vastly different lives and lifestyles to intersect in a purely heavenly moment. Something every reader should get out of this book is a deeper understanding of homeless people and a greater mystery of providence. If you feel you have been given a bad hand and would like to dive into the Admittedly the broken english title \"Same Kind of Different as Me\" piqued my interest and boy did I enjoy this book. It is an autobigraphy of two men and the miraculous events that were orchestrated bringing two vastly different lives and lifestyles to intersect in a purely heavenly moment. Something every reader should get out of this book is a deeper understanding of homeless people and a greater mystery of providence. If you feel you have been given a bad hand and would like to dive into the deep mystery, read this book. ...more The Denver part of the story was very interesting but, I found Ron to be selfish and uninteresting. I could careless about how much he (Ron) was spending on new homes, cars ect. Denver's life was heart-breaking and I really enjoyed reading about his life Wow! A beautiful, heartwarming story. If I hadn't been given this book by a friend I'm not sure I would have ever come across it. I am SO glad it found it's way to me and I randomly picked it up to read...yesterday. I couldn't put this one down and finished it in 2 days. If you choose to read this one, be prepared to experience an emotional ride. It was full of religion, which I usually avoid like the plague, but surprisingly it didn't bother me as it was what was relevant to the authors' lives. Wow! A beautiful, heartwarming story. If I hadn't been given this book by a friend I'm not sure I would have ever come across it. I am SO glad it found it's way to me and I randomly picked it up to read...yesterday. I couldn't put this one down and finished it in 2 days. If you choose to read this one, be prepared to experience an emotional ride. It was full of religion, which I usually avoid like the plague, but surprisingly it didn't bother me as it was what was relevant to the authors' lives. It may not be my belief, but it was part of the story, a good one. It was almost magical at times. Highly, highly recommend!! Ok, now that I've had some time to process this book (I wrote the review right after I finished, while still raw with emotion) I can now come back with a more detached review. I still think it is a 5 star book, namely because of the emotions it drew out of me. So that remains unchanged. What has changed is my perception of what I see as the religiosity of this book. Thinking on it more now, I see that it might be more preachy than I originally thought, but frankly, that still works for me with this book. Thinking back on some of the scenes, and knowing now that it was published by a Christian publisher, I can see where there may have been some drama added to make it a draw for conversion to Christianity. I am NOT a religious person by any means, I believe strongly in other spiritual things (not for discussion here) but admittedly found myself almost \"falling\" for Christianity and it's miraculous events. ok, so I don't look for, nor like religious/preachy books. In fact, I run from them. (reading this book was a fluke and I had no idea what I was getting into). So the fact that I was caught up in the religiosity of it, to me, means it was a powerful book. So still 5 stars. Have I converted to Christianity, no. Can I see how people may after this book, perhaps. So, to me then, it works. The story is more than just religion though. It is about the power of friendship and acceptance. I loved it still. ...more A recommendation from my daughter's college roommate, an Evangelical Christian who doesn't even like to read, but she was squeezing this book in between Thermal Dynamics and Bio-Chemical Engineering homework, college life, church and a boyfriend. It seemed a high endorsement. Same Kind of Different as Me is a true story about how God likes to bring people together for His own purposes. In this case, we have a former cotton-picker, turned runaway, street man, ex-con, who meets a wealthy art deale A recommendation from my daughter's college roommate, an Evangelical Christian who doesn't even like to read, but she was squeezing this book in between Thermal Dynamics and Bio-Chemical Engineering homework, college life, church and a boyfriend. It seemed a high endorsement. Same Kind of Different as Me is a true story about how God likes to bring people together for His own purposes. In this case, we have a former cotton-picker, turned runaway, street man, ex-con, who meets a wealthy art dealer in Forth Worth, Texas. They are an unlikely pair and form an even more unusual and yet incredibly enviable friendship, which allows Divine Providence to work great things in and through both men. As often happens when Our Lord is at work in human affairs, the one who initiates things as the \"giver\" soon finds himself on the receiving end of the relationship. I read almost 9/10 of the book in just one day. Very enjoyable and spiritual enriching as well, while skirting the tempting waters of preaching-at-the-reader. ...more I don\u2019t know what it is about my book club picks this year. They seem to be taking a religious, emotional turn at full speed around a curve with no side rail. Perhaps it\u2019s because of the difficult times we are facing. Perhaps people are drawn to inspirational tales of overcoming obstacles and wanting to discuss them in an open forum. So far, 3 of the last 5 books we\u2019ve read have dealt with death on some level and it\u2019s not even Halloween yet. Not Sherlock Holmes solving a mystery type of death, b I don\u2019t know what it is about my book club picks this year. They seem to be taking a religious, emotional turn at full speed around a curve with no side rail. Perhaps it\u2019s because of the difficult times we are facing. Perhaps people are drawn to inspirational tales of overcoming obstacles and wanting to discuss them in an open forum. So far, 3 of the last 5 books we\u2019ve read have dealt with death on some level and it\u2019s not even Halloween yet. Not Sherlock Holmes solving a mystery type of death, but long drawn out, miserable suffering sort of death. Do I want to read about this stuff in a time of crisis? In the words of Charlie Brown, good grief, no, no, no. Not one right after the other. I\u2019m starting to have nightmares. Seriously. With that said, if you\u2019re still even reading this depressing ink (if I were you I\u2019d have stopped long ago) my third tale of woe in this series of \u201cinspirational\u201d reading, is one of Denver Moore, a man born and raised in Louisiana in the 40\u2019s and 50\u2019s, and until the late 60\u2019s worked for \u201cthe man\u201d on a share-cropping farm. He\u2019s never been to school a day in his life. Never gotten a birthday present. Never owned a home or a car. He\u2019s a man who\u2019s skimmed along the surface of life without anyone noticing. Until he meets Ron Hall and his wife Debra at a homeless shelter, two rich people trying to make a difference. They notice him, and everything changes, for all three of them. If this book had only been about Denver, I probably would give it 4 stars. His story was very interesting and almost unbelievable. A modern day slave on a cotton farm, he worked for nothing but food and a roof over his head until he literally jumped on a train to Texas and while there remained homeless for almost thirty years. Somehow what he said rang true. However, Ron Hall\u2019s part of the story (as it is told from both their perspectives) I found to be self-indulgent and (here\u2019s that dreaded word again) preachy. He talks of his \u201cpoor\u201d beginnings in a white middle class family. How he smoked pot with \u201cfat chicks\u201d in college and how later he rose from Campbell Soup salesman to a fantastic and super rich art dealer of the famous. Somewhere along the way with the help of his saintly wife, and after he\u2019s caught having an affair, he finds God and a purpose in life. His wife drags him to a homeless shelter where the two of them come across Denver, who is of course all too happy to be hounded by two rich people with a cause. It\u2019s not hard to guess what happens next. So, I\u2019ll say no more of this get happy tale but this: ugh. ...more While I enjoyed Denver's passages, Ron's passages left me with an uneasy, almost offended feeling. There is a point where he is talking about enlisting and he speaks of an incident with a woman he smoked pot with. Twice within the same paragraph he refers to her simply as the \"fat chick\". I was completely taken aback and aghast at such a juvinile and mean spirited statement that he felt the need to reiterate a few sentences later. There is another passage he talks about his $500 European Designe While I enjoyed Denver's passages, Ron's passages left me with an uneasy, almost offended feeling. There is a point where he is talking about enlisting and he speaks of an incident with a woman he smoked pot with. Twice within the same paragraph he refers to her simply as the \"fat chick\". I was completely taken aback and aghast at such a juvinile and mean spirited statement that he felt the need to reiterate a few sentences later. There is another passage he talks about his $500 European Designer glasses that rubbed me the wrong way. I found him preachy and full of self righteousness. Denver's passages were real and I truly felt he was a good person to his core. I wish this book was more about his story. About half way through the story takes a sharp turn and becomes the story of Ron's wife Debbie that ulimately dies from cancer. It continues on that path to the end. Barely mentioning Denver becoming an artist. I wanted to hear more about Denver's art, how he discovered his talent and his metamporphasis. I felt a little railroaded into reading a cancer story. Both the synopsis and the pictures included are misleading. There are many pictures of Denver and even of his art, which they never discuss and only two of Debbie, leading me to believe I was going to read a book about Denver and his path to art. Very disappointing. I would give 4 stars to Denver's passages but no stars to Ron's. ...more A wonderful true story, especially in today's rush-rush world where we barely notice those around us. A truly inspiring story of how one woman's love, motivation and faith connected two very unlikely gentlemen and part of a city. Set mostly in Fort Worth, TX it was especially interesting for me to read something set so close to home. This book was a learning experience for me on so many levels, but it espeically opened my eyes to things I had no idea went on in our recent history. But also to th A wonderful true story, especially in today's rush-rush world where we barely notice those around us. A truly inspiring story of how one woman's love, motivation and faith connected two very unlikely gentlemen and part of a city. Set mostly in Fort Worth, TX it was especially interesting for me to read something set so close to home. This book was a learning experience for me on so many levels, but it espeically opened my eyes to things I had no idea went on in our recent history. But also to the fact that while we are each quite different we are also each so very much alike when it comes to our core needs/wants. I HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone. It's a must read and an easy and quick read. And it's a book you won't want to put down once you get started. ...more I'm not sure what to say about this other than I found myself skimming the last 100 pages. There are certainly a lot of compelling and inspirational pieces to the story, but I have to say I felt like the two main characters were somewhat delusional in their religious beliefs and faith, and that a lot of suffering could have been avoided by a few reality checks along the way. The revelation that seemed to most amaze everyone concerned was that a black man and a rich evangelical white man could be I'm not sure what to say about this other than I found myself skimming the last 100 pages. There are certainly a lot of compelling and inspirational pieces to the story, but I have to say I felt like the two main characters were somewhat delusional in their religious beliefs and faith, and that a lot of suffering could have been avoided by a few reality checks along the way. The revelation that seemed to most amaze everyone concerned was that a black man and a rich evangelical white man could be friends, which I guess is something notable in Fort Worth Texas but it wasn't all that inspirational to me personally. ...more I began reading this for one book club but ran out of time. But then the other book club I'm in picked this book too. Guess it is time to start reading this all the way through this time. I'm glad I was presented with another opportunity to read this book. I'm not sure if I would have picked it up to finish again if it hadn't been for the selection to read this with my other book club. It still did not make it into my top book picks but it still served the purpose of a good read and offering thou I began reading this for one book club but ran out of time. But then the other book club I'm in picked this book too. Guess it is time to start reading this all the way through this time. I'm glad I was presented with another opportunity to read this book. I'm not sure if I would have picked it up to finish again if it hadn't been for the selection to read this with my other book club. It still did not make it into my top book picks but it still served the purpose of a good read and offering thought provoking moments throughout. The beginning of the book was a little slow for me. However I understand that the author needed to build the back story. I'm not sure I appreciated the different voices used to write this story (Denver and Ron) but it was almost as if it was fitting to the title and almost necessary for the book. Meeting for the book discussion raised many questions and deep thought. How does one decide when it is time to let go with death? Is your faith strong enough to get you through the hard times and still stay with God? More importantly, how could one start to live their life in hopes to being (or trying to aspire to be) the next Deborah? Also just for a thought, one girl from our group sent out the idea, \"we don't know what angels look like\". One of my favorite parts from this book is when Denver asks Ron if he is going to catch and release him. This in turn had me sit and think about the friendships I have \"caught and released\". Part of me feels they were necessary to my own development as a person yet another piece asks if I might have abandoned some in their \"time of need (growth)\". Have you ever caught and released someone in your life? I feel I am still searching for something to make my life whole. I often sit and wonder what it is that I may be called to do. How could I best use my gifts to help others in this world? Do I have the strength to leave my comfort and dive head first into whatever it may be? Now onto some quotes... \"... who knows our number of days. I intend to fulfill each one of mine.\" \"Am I terminal? ... We're all terminal... None of us makes it our of here alive.\" \"People think they're in control, but they ain't. The truth is, that which must befall thee must befall thee. And that which must pass thee by must pass thee by.\" \"How do you live the rest of your life in just a few days?\" Spoiler (last few lines of the book) \"But I found out everybody's different - the same kind of different as me. We're all just regular folks walkin down the road God done set in front of us. The truth about it is, whether we is rich or poor or something in between. this earth ain't no final restin place. So in a way, we is all homeless - just workin our way toward home.\" ...more This book is a little too self congratulatory. The story unquestionably shows the power of doing good selflessly and the background story of one of the characters is tragic and fascinating. But by the end, the book is nothing more than an evangelical preaching session, losing site of its original message in favor of talking itself up, in the tradition of the old time gospel hour. I wish I could say I liked the book. I felt ambushed about half way through when it became a cancer story. Perhaps that doesn\u2019t make sense, but having lost one of my sons to cancer and then a few years ago my brother, it is hard to read stuff like that without somehow steeling myself for it first. In any case, I just didn\u2019t care for how it was written, even beyond the cancer part of the story. Maybe a bit too much of patting themselves on the back. I don\u2019t know. I did not feel like it was that w I wish I could say I liked the book. I felt ambushed about half way through when it became a cancer story. Perhaps that doesn\u2019t make sense, but having lost one of my sons to cancer and then a few years ago my brother, it is hard to read stuff like that without somehow steeling myself for it first. In any case, I just didn\u2019t care for how it was written, even beyond the cancer part of the story. Maybe a bit too much of patting themselves on the back. I don\u2019t know. I did not feel like it was that way when they were talking about Deborah, but when talking about themselves, I did. Perhaps a story like this is better done by someone outside of the narrative? There is a chance I\u2019m completely off base, since many people really like the book. And, in the sense that it reminds and even compels us to remember those less fortunate than us, it is worth reading. ...more This was a book that made me think about the people that I come into contact with and what I can, or have, learned from them. It made me ponder if I have ever really added some sort of value to someone else's existence. I have not had an experience like the relationship in the book (coming together with someone from the opposite side of the track), but I do have people in my life that I can't imagine not having met. It is a rare occasion when a book makes me cry but I found myself choked up as I This was a book that made me think about the people that I come into contact with and what I can, or have, learned from them. It made me ponder if I have ever really added some sort of value to someone else's existence. I have not had an experience like the relationship in the book (coming together with someone from the opposite side of the track), but I do have people in my life that I can't imagine not having met. It is a rare occasion when a book makes me cry but I found myself choked up as I read by the light of my flashlight in bed. Maybe I was tired? Maybe I am too sensitive? Or maybe it is because the story is a true account of their lives, which always seems to be more vulerable. ...more The bottom line is that this book tells a good tale (a bonafied true story!) about a homeless black guy and rich white guy who become best friends through the pluck and persistance of the latter\u2019s freakin\u2019 angelic wife. The story is remarkable, and it has left a real mark on the city of Ft. Worth, TX. I\u2019m not saying that it\u2019s for everyone, but anyone who ever laid a claim to a hope in The Lawd could use this book as quick test of the state of their soul. (I know mine could use some work.) more: h The bottom line is that this book tells a good tale (a bonafied true story!) about a homeless black guy and rich white guy who become best friends through the pluck and persistance of the latter\u2019s freakin\u2019 angelic wife. The story is remarkable, and it has left a real mark on the city of Ft. Worth, TX. I\u2019m not saying that it\u2019s for everyone, but anyone who ever laid a claim to a hope in The Lawd could use this book as quick test of the state of their soul. (I know mine could use some work.) more: http://blog.gw-1.com/2009/03/same-kin... ...more Very rarely do I give 5 stars to a book, but this one really changed my life. The true story of a homeless black man and a wealthy white art dealer whose paths cross and change each other forever. I cried more throughout this book that any other book, ever. This is the story of the unlikely friendship and spiritual bond between a poor, homeless black man and a wealthy white art dealer. It was so convincingly written that the two men, and the art dealer's wife, who puts the two men together, come across as crystal clear and very sympathetic characters. This is no surprise, given the participation of ghostwriter Lynn Vincent (Heaven is for Real). Ghostwriters rarely get their due. This is my shout-out to Lynn Vincent! Both men tell fascinating stories This is the story of the unlikely friendship and spiritual bond between a poor, homeless black man and a wealthy white art dealer. It was so convincingly written that the two men, and the art dealer's wife, who puts the two men together, come across as crystal clear and very sympathetic characters. This is no surprise, given the participation of ghostwriter Lynn Vincent (Heaven is for Real). Ghostwriters rarely get their due. This is my shout-out to Lynn Vincent! Both men tell fascinating stories -- Denver Moore, a sharecropping slave who hops a train hobo-style to Texas for a better life, and Ron Hall, who was born poor but who discovers a knack for buying and selling million-dollar paintings thereby lifting himself into the stratosphere of the so-called 1 percent. At his wife's urging and very reluctantly, Mr. Hall begins to volunteer at an inner-city mission in Fort Worth, where he meets Mr. Moore, an angry loner who scares away anyone who approaches him. Both environments are riveting for the reader -- in relating the story of his life, Denver tells of suffering brutally at the hands of The Man and white supremacists, even to the point of near death. Ron Hall hobnobs with the rich and famous, buys mansions and sports cars, even snags an invitation to the presidential inaugural ball. But it was also the black-and-white nature of the characters that in the end left me less than five-star enamored of the book. Eventually, the characters become caricatures of themselves: the clueless white man, the wise old black man, the saintly wife. Some of the scenes stretched my ability to believe: visions, visitations, magic potions, prophecies from the Lord. But some time ago, I decided never to question anyone's story. Who am I to judge what happened and what didn't? The impact of the Halls' and Mr. Moore's relationship on their own lives, and on the many lives they touch through the mission, is plain to see. They are fortunate to have lived it, and we are fortunate to be able to read about it. ...more I was really moved by this story, and I'm still thinking a lot about it the day after I finished it. That's what gives it such a high rating, the impact, not the writing. I was touched by the depth of commitment and responsibility that Ron and Deborah felt for the homeless. The evangelical part of the story, where 'it was a miracle, and I was guided by God every step' and 'God spoke to me last night' comes across a little heavy. But even if it is a hard for me to feel, one has to believe that th I was really moved by this story, and I'm still thinking a lot about it the day after I finished it. That's what gives it such a high rating, the impact, not the writing. I was touched by the depth of commitment and responsibility that Ron and Deborah felt for the homeless. The evangelical part of the story, where 'it was a miracle, and I was guided by God every step' and 'God spoke to me last night' comes across a little heavy. But even if it is a hard for me to feel, one has to believe that they felt it, because of the tremendous good work they did, and their sincere commitment to helping the homeless feel God's love. That amount of giving is moving to me, and I think that amount of kindness in someone's life is honorable. It makes me really consider the amount of kindness and giving I feel, or don't feel. Ron often says things like, \"I didn't like the smell\", \"I didn't want to touch them\", \"I judged them\"... I am sad to admit that I am the same way. I was not just impressed, but incredulous, how Deborah didn't judge, and really seemed to love the homeless. It almost made her seem not real, too good, but I decided to buy into it instead of not believing it. I was impressed that Ron could be so committed to loving his wife, that he could go along with it all. Denver's part of the story is really historically interesting. That's what roped me into the book in the first place, reading about how isolated he was, he couldn't read or write, had no radio or tv... there was no world outside his shack on the plantation. His story is really interesting. ...more I have a hard time rating memoirs. Particularly cause you try to remain objective as possible,without getting caught up with the subjective opinion. I understand this is the author life,hence I am sympathetic to the trials and tribulations of slavery. On the other hand,it just got jumbled in more ways than one. It had more misses than anything,but I enjoyed some of it. I liked how I was introduced to the people that made a huge impact. Also there was some gripping scenes that made you feel empath I have a hard time rating memoirs. Particularly cause you try to remain objective as possible,without getting caught up with the subjective opinion. I understand this is the author life,hence I am sympathetic to the trials and tribulations of slavery. On the other hand,it just got jumbled in more ways than one. It had more misses than anything,but I enjoyed some of it. I liked how I was introduced to the people that made a huge impact. Also there was some gripping scenes that made you feel empathetic. Yet,nothing really stood out to me,other than a few highs here and there. Despite my fickle feelings towards the book,it was readable and will appeal to all ages. ...more I've had this book for a few weeks. It had been suggested to me by a few people and then someone actually bought it for me. I finally started reading it Sunday afternoon and finished it that night. I'm not a terribly fast reader at all, I just couldn't put it down. The two narrative voices are completely different and the reader is completely drawn into each narrator's story in appropriate measures. I would be just as moved if I didn't work in a Rescue Mission. It's an amazing story of how helpi I've had this book for a few weeks. It had been suggested to me by a few people and then someone actually bought it for me. I finally started reading it Sunday afternoon and finished it that night. I'm not a terribly fast reader at all, I just couldn't put it down. The two narrative voices are completely different and the reader is completely drawn into each narrator's story in appropriate measures. I would be just as moved if I didn't work in a Rescue Mission. It's an amazing story of how helping others really does make a difference. I've already lent the book out to another person and have a third and fourth waiting in line for it. ...more I think the concept for this book was great. But whoever helped the two main characters tell their stories added so much fluff for \"dramatic content\" that the story was almost ruined for me by the end. I think if Denver Moore and Ron Hall had just told their story simply it would have been a wonderful book. I had a hard time believing that anyone actually said any of the dialogue by the time I finished. An amazing story of an unlikely friendship, and the power of God. I generally don't read non-fiction except for the Bible; in this case, I'm glad I made an exception! This was a book club pick for us this month. I am having a bit of trouble figuring out how to rate this, between three or four. I may change it down the road, you know me. Anyway, when I first began this book, I really thought that Ron was a bit annoying. I'm glad he has done well in life, but I don't want to hear all the details of it. Although I do think he's pretty honest in stating all the stereotypes he had of people in the beginning, stereotypes of classes and races and people. In the begin This was a book club pick for us this month. I am having a bit of trouble figuring out how to rate this, between three or four. I may change it down the road, you know me. Anyway, when I first began this book, I really thought that Ron was a bit annoying. I'm glad he has done well in life, but I don't want to hear all the details of it. Although I do think he's pretty honest in stating all the stereotypes he had of people in the beginning, stereotypes of classes and races and people. In the beginning he goes to the shelter because his wife wants him to. He befriends Denver, a homeless black man, because he thinks he's doing a good deed. He admits he's kind of a jerk. The second half of the book I enjoyed more. I loved Denver's story, his wisdom, and living in the South I could appreciate the tragic history of sharecropping and its ripple effect through time. As Ron's wife goes through her struggle with cancer, there was so much I could relate to. The pain of it all. At the beginning of the book, Ron believes he is doing a nice thing for Denver. By the end of the book, we realize that it is Denver who saves Ron. He is the one that Ron desperately relies on in his struggles, the one who teaches Ron humility, kindness, and the meaning of true friendship. He is the one that teaches that even when you don't get the miracle you want, there is still beauty and goodness in life, as well as strength in trials. Denver is a really amazing man. This is a Christian-themed book, so it may not be someone's thing. I do think it's worth reading just to see the point of how wrong we can be when we rely on assumptions and stereotypes which prevent us from seeing the beauty of the person in front of us. ...more<---C>Ron Hall</---C>", "Title": "Same Kind of Different as Me"},
