{"Comments": "In this historical novel, an unassuming Dutch bookkeeper named <---C>Jacob de Zoet</---C> falls in love with a beautiful midwife in 18th-century Japan. When Miss Aiba-gawa is spirited away to a mountain monastery, Jacob finds the heroism in his soul. Here is a bygone secret world full of charm and horror. Mitchell is best known for Cloud Atlas, which was a literary stunt in this correspondent\u2019s opinion.<---F> The Thousand Autumns is far better</---F>. I've spent a week reading this very fine novel and a weekend attempting to unpack it, and I have little doubt I'll spend a good few years thinking about it from time to time. If one measure of a novel is its ability to simultaneously inspire and confound engagement, then Mitchell has once again turned it up to 11. Most of the reviews I've been reading have remarked that this is Mitchell's most formally conventional novel (<---B>linear, third-person narrative</---B>), and that his often scintillating prose has I've spent a week reading this very fine novel and a weekend attempting to unpack it, and I have little doubt I'll spend a good few years thinking about it from time to time. If one measure of a novel is its ability to simultaneously inspire and confound engagement, then Mitchell has once again turned it up to 11. Most of the reviews I've been reading have remarked that this is Mitchell's most formally conventional novel (linear,<---M> third-person narrative)</---M>, and that his often scintillating prose has been burnished to a more muted lustre, and for the most part these are accurate. There's less showmanship here, without any reduction in finesse. But in all Mitchell's novels, messages hide within the virtuosity, and this book's lack of embellishment brings them a little closer to the surface. We are tantalized with recurrent themes, unexplained symbols, ties between distant story lines (indeed, between entire novels!), and I've been having a hell of a time trying to reconstruct it all into some kind of meaning. The reviews that have helped bring some coherence to my thoughts, though, are those by the Irish Times and the Times of London , both of which point out the importance of bridging divides between people, cultures, worlds. Dejima is a bridge between Europe and Japan. Its denizens are interpreters, tradesmen, and scientists, all disciplines that form bridges between people (language, goods, knowledge). Characters constantly bridge the gap between each other and between them and the reader by recounting their backstories in Scooby-Doo-esque wavy-screened flashbacks. Jacob and Uzaemon are united by books, and later by Orito. Jacob and Orito by love, letters, and language. Marinus and his Japanese colleagues by medicine and botany. Dejima, like other frontiers, is also a crucible for morality, and we are constantly reminded of what can befall those who fail to bridge divides and continue to see other people and cultures as entirely alien. Corruption is rampant, as well as infidelity. The Dutch and the Japanese habitually try to cheat each other, just as they play and betray their own countrymen. Slavery and subjugation are implicitly and explicitly addressed again and again (like in Cloud Atlas). It was interesting to me that there were very clear-cut Good Guys and Bad Guys. The Good Guys (de Zoet, Orito, Marinus, Uzaemon) are all truth-seekers of sorts. Jacob crunches numbers and uncovers corruption. Orito and Marinus are scientists. Uzaemon studies the true meaning of words. They all also have internal, non-relativistic moral codes that burn just as brightly on foreign soil as at home, and allow them to recognize kindred fires abroad. Jacob standing on the watch tower, or Marinus decrying the beating of a slave. Orito choosing to save others despite her imprisonment, and Uzaemon abandoning his steady, obedient life to destroy the temple. The Bad Guys (Enomoto, Vorstenbosch, Capt. Lacy, Fischer) are universally self-interested, and view others as stepping stones, chattel, or even food. Enomoto is a bit of a mystery to me, though. He's a mustache-twirling, finger-tenting immortal super villain who has magic powers and eats babies. In a thoroughly researched, realistic historical novel, he kind of stands out. I suspect that aside from entertainment, his presence and exit are actually meant to demonstrate what evil is *not*. He's the only bad guy who gets his comeuppance, as if the only evils that can be truly vanquished are the imaginary ones. As Grote says, \"'Tain't good intentions what paves the road to hell: it's self-justifyin's\" (p. 104), and as Enomoto himself says, \"Evil, evil evil. You always wield that word as if it were a sword and not a vapid conceit\" (p. 309). Evil is not discrete or separate, nor can it be nicely excised. All the more human transgressors survive, even prosper. Anyway, those are the things that seem to make sense to me about this novel. Here are a few things that don't: What the hell was up with the constant interruption of quotes?! For example: 'Chief van Cleef,' Fischer calls after him, 'and I shall discuss your insolence!' 'It's a long way,' Ivo Oost smokes in a doorway, 'down to the bottom...' 'It is my signature,' Fischer shouts after him, 'that authorizes your wages!' (p. 166) The majority of quotes are written this way. In an unknown author, I might attribute this to a weird lexical tick, but Mitchell is a careful, meticulous writer capable of adopting many different voices and styles, so I think this has to be intentional. But what does it mean? I'm guessing the form has some relation to Japanese literature or poetry, but I don't know enough to make a connection. Mitchell also repeatedly employs this weird interleaving of interior and exterior monologue. An example from the Phoebus , as Cpt. Penhaligon listens to a sermon: '\"And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared...\"' The common run of chaplains is either too meek for so unruly a flock... '\"...and no small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved...\"' ...or else, so zealous that the sailors ignore, scorn or vilify them. '\"...was then taken away. But after long abstinence Paul stood forth...'\" Chaplain Wily, an oysterman's son from Whistable, is a welcome exception. (p. 328) These passages are almost unreadable. Perhaps they are there both to contrast truth as thought and truth as communicated (the bridge), and to demonstrate how utterly discordant the two can be. Animals: a moth witnesses birth at the start, and a butterfly witnesses death at the finish. Orito speaks to cats and rats in moments of drug-induced madness, and William Pitt the monkey bears witness to the tribulations on Dejima. Nature does not play an overt role in this book (or in any Mitchell novel?), but natural elements seem be deliberately included. Simply mneomnic rigging, or is there more explicit allegory at play? And finally, my notes. puerperal (adj): adj form of puerpera, a woman who has just given birth. (p. 8) yakumoso (n): a bit of searching of suggests this is some member of the genus Leonurus , maybe Leonurus japonicus . Apparently it's commonly used in Asian folk medicine, just as the related motherwort is used in European folk medicine. As with so many folk remedies, it seems to treat just about everything, though there apparently are some papers about antimicrobial properties . farrago (n): hodgepodge, mixture. (p. 11) carrack (n): a kind of merchant ship. (p. 15) \"The pain is prismatic.\" (p. 45) I kind of hate it when authors employ literally floral language when describing pain (delicate pain, pain blossoming, etc). I like \"prismatic.\" provedore (n): a purveyor or provider? How do they relate to stevedores? Prove gives the hard tack to Steve and Steve loads it onto the boat? Why isn't anyone named \"Prove\"? Why?! (p. 56) \"Deflate your testicles comme \u00e0 la mode : via the village pimp or Sin of Onan.\" (p. 58). Sadly, it doesn't take much to make me laugh. As usual, though, the Bible is funnier: \"And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also\" (Genesis 38:10) . Old Testament God held no truck with half-assed punishment like mere blindness! glister (n): alternate spelling of \"clyster,\" which is an archaic term for an enema (had to rely on Wikipedia for the alternate orthography, but \"clyster\" is in my abbreviated OED). This scene is both horrid and hilarious. I love Dr. Marinus. (p. 66) dithyrambic (adj): a dithyramb was a form a Greek song and dance involving a large group of men and boys dancing in a circle. Apparently it had a unique meter, but not sure what it was. (p. 69) chandler (n): candle-maker. (p. 100) splenetic (adj): pertaining to the spleen, irritable. (p. 109) langer (n): apparently an all-purpose disparagement in County Cork, Ireland. Wikipedia and this page have interesting perspectives on the history of the word (as does this performance of The Langer Song !). If the east Indian simian etymology is correct, though, Con Twomey would have been a bit ahead of his time in speaking it, despite being a Corkman. (p. 111) bourse (n): an exchange or market. (p. 114) monorchid (n): a man with only one testicle. Let me take a moment to assure you that that the somewhat juvenile selection of words here reflects the rather puerile condition of my own predilections and not the overall tenor of the novel. The word \"orchid\" apparently derives from the Greek word \u00f3rkhis , meaning \"testicle.\" I always chuckled when I read about the \"scrotum-like\" flowers of the Pink lady's slipper ( Cypripedium acaule ). Now I realize I should have been chuckling a lot more! (p. 118) \" Act , implores the Ghost of Future Regret. I shan't give you another chance. \" (p. 123) manumission (n): manumit means \"to free from slavery\" (the etymology seems to be something like \"emit from one's hand\"). This passage sets off a debate about slavery. (p. 129) \"'So it is the sulphur of Jean Calvin,' says the Irishman, in English, 'making war on my nostrils.'\" Jean Calvin as in the eponymous progenitor of Calvinist Christian doctrine, to which the Dutch de Zoet would probably subscribe. That went right over my head. (p. 151) moxibustion (n): a form of East-Asian medicine involving mugwort, which is apparently dried and burned, or actually burned into the skin. (p. 174) Maria and Iesu-sama: I had no idea there were all these Christians in Japan! Spanish and Portuguese Jesuits brought Christianity to Japan in the 16th century and apparently it was so popular the Shogunate saw it as the preliminary incursion of European imperialism, and made moves to snuff it (including killing lots of people and instituting the ritual of fumi-e ), resulting in Japan's legendary seclusionist policy that lasted until the Perry Expedition in the 19th century. I know so, so little about history. Sigh. (p. 178) febrifuge (n): drug to reduce fever, also known as an antipyretic. (p. 193) Van Diemen's Land (pn): another name for Tasmania. The indigenous Palawa went extinct after encountering Europeans. (p. 199) \"Men of commerce, sir [...:] for the most part, had their consciences cut out at birth. Better an honest drowning than slow death by hypocrisy, law or debt.\" Ah, a man after my own heart (p. 332) \"Ibani qui poterant [...:] qui non potuere cadebant.\" I think there's a typo and it should be Ibant qui poterant, qui non potuere cadebant , which means \"Those who could have gone, those who could not have fallen,\" which seems appropriate. I guess Marinus is referring to this pastel by Dutch painter Cornelis Troost , but the painting seems to depict drunken party-goers trying to head home. A joke, I guess. Where in Hell does Mitchell get this stuff. (p. 366) podagra (n): synonym for gout (p. 375) bagnio (n): literally a bath house, though in this sense probably whore house. (p. 381) ingravescent (adj): gradually worsening. I like how even the Cpt. objects to the arcane language. Not that I'm objecting. I'm doing the opposite. (p. 407) \"Reverse our reverses\" Penhaligon, Shiroyama, and Marinus all employ this phrase. To what end, Mitchell?! (p. 429) Regarding the V-sign and the Battle of Agincourt: as I dimly recalled while reading this passage, the French supposedly threatened to cut off the first two fingers of English longbowmen, and the English thus used those same fingers to taunt the vanquished French. However, Wikipedia claims the story is apocryphal , and that the gesture's first recorded use dates to the early 20th century. (p. 430) Quid non mortalia pectora cogis, Auri sacra fames. Apparently from The Aeneid , this translation has it as, \"Cursed lust of gold, to what dost thou not force the heart of man?\" (p. 431) ...more Remember Dr. Seuss's words, children: \"Oh, the Places You'll Go!\" In the case of wunderkind writer <---A>David Mitchell</---A>'s THE THOUSAND AUTUMNS OF JACOB DE ZOET, you'll set your time machine dial for 1799 and a makeshift Dutch port called Dejima on the shores of Nagasaki, Japan. But let's take it down another level. You'll start at the port and live with old salts that'll make the Pirates of the Caribbean look like so many Lord Fauntleroys. You'll visit the homes of the secretive Japanese magistrates. Remember Dr. Seuss's words, children: \"Oh, the Places You'll Go!\" In the case of wunderkind writer David Mitchell's THE THOUSAND AUTUMNS OF JACOB DE ZOET, you'll set your time machine dial for 1799 and a makeshift Dutch port called Dejima on the shores of Nagasaki, Japan. But let's take it down another level. You'll start at the port and live with old salts that'll make the Pirates of the Caribbean look like so many Lord Fauntleroys. You'll visit the homes of the secretive Japanese magistrates. You'll do some time in Dr. Marinus's \"academy,\" witnessing some bone-chilling turn of THAT century operations (removal of a kidney stone, for instance, in full metal graphics). You'll go up into the mountains past Nagasaki, up to a castle where Japanese women are held in captivity but told they are \"nuns\" worshiping an obscure goddess. Over the river and through the woods you'll go in an exciting mission with samurais bent on rescuing one very special captive in this castle. And you'll even hit the low seas (off Dejima) and join British Captain Penhaligon as he wrestles with his conscience and his wits, trying to decide whether to attack the Dutch and Japanese or negotiate with them. Nautical chess games, anyone? David Mitchell can flat-out write. Among contemporary writers, he reigns supreme (I would say in my book, but in HIS books, actually) for his ability to turn poetry into words and to make images dance in startling ways. This is a writer's writer with imagination and skill. And what's best is how he's constantly challenging himself as well. Here we have historical fiction in one of the most unusual of settings, yet you'll feel you're there and that you actually have an understanding of the mysterious land of the shoguns as well as the nefarious intrigues of the European traders. As you'd expect from Mitchell, the allusions are rich and varied, too. Through characters such as Dr. Marinus, the surgeon/musician/man of science as well as the arts with the Dutch, you'll hear references to the Greeks, the Romans, the ancient Arabs, the Bible, mythology, philosophers, scientists, and whatnot. An irascible and complex man, Marinus was one of my favorites, though his role was rather minor. Bigger roles go, of course, to Jacob and the disfigured Japanese midwife he falls in love with, Orito Aibagawa. Jacob De Zoet, a practical and religious man, is honest to a fault. Among the Dutch lowlifes, he is both gasoline and match, in other words, and his zealous opposition to embezzling and skimming profits and black marketing make him many enemies. Orito has her own problems. A student of Dr. Marinus's, she attracts unwanted attention from the Japanese nobles (some \"noble\" and others vicious) when she dallies with the pale-skinned, auburn-haired Jacob. When she disappears, the novel takes off to some of the more exotic locales mentioned early in this review. Some readers may struggle with the number of Japanese names and characters, especially at the \"nunnery,\" but Mitchell at least is studious in his characterization and the special quirks he bestows to his creations. At times Mitchell can overwrite, too, when he should move on, but those instances are neither frequent nor extended. The book's best scenes come at the end when the added dimension of a British frigate is provided. The match of wits between Capt. Penhaligon and De Zoet when Dejima is bottled up by the man-of-war is a joy to read. Mitchell is at his best when dealing with the psychological and the power of decisions made in moments of crisis to alter history. If you've had your fill of beach reads this summer, THE THOUSAND AUTUMNS OF JACOB DE ZOET is your antidote. It's serious contemporary literature by one of our more gifted scribes. It's a grown-up's book that contains not only incredible description but a sound plot. And no, it won't baby you with constant, hold-on-to-your-seat action, but you can handle that and you can appreciate a novel for its construction and its grander designs as well, right? So why not give it a places-you'll-go? ...more A shooting star lives and dies in an instant. I first read this when it was published in paperback, just because it was by Mitchell. I admired the craft of the writing, but overall, I did not enjoy it as much as I hoped: I\u2019m not a huge fan of historical fiction, and this seemed a very straightforward narrative in comparison with three of his four preceding books. Now in 2014, after reading The Bone Clocks, I discover that is the second in the Marinus trilogy and this was the first. Almost immediat A shooting star lives and dies in an instant. I first read this when it was published in paperback, just because it was by Mitchell. I admired the craft of the writing, but overall, I did not enjoy it as much as I hoped: I\u2019m not a huge fan of historical fiction, and this seemed a very straightforward narrative in comparison with three of his four preceding books. Now in 2014, after reading The Bone Clocks, I discover that is the second in the Marinus trilogy and this was the first. Almost immediately, I returned to this, and oh how utterly different and more complex it turns out to be. So much was hiding in plain sight. This book really demonstrates the enormous canvass of the uber-book that Mitchell is planning years ahead, over many volumes, some more closely connected than others. An autumn breeze drags its invisible robes around the fine room. Note: It\u2019s hard to manage all my interconnected reviews of Mitchell\u2019s books, but they are all here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/list... What sort of novel is this? This is a single, largely chronological, story, told in three main sections. A gibbous moon is grubby. Stars are bubbles trapped in ice. It is a work of exhaustively researched historical fiction, set in the Dutch concession of Dejima in Japan (a closed, artificial island, within a nation of islands closed to the world), at the crossover of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Dejima was Japan\u2019s only window on the rest of the world and Europe\u2019s only window on Japan. Windows are a leitmotif throughout, and Land of A Thousand Autumns is one of the names Japan was known by. It\u2019s also very much the story of two men who love the same, apparently unattainable, woman. Dawn breathes muddy greens and ember reds through grey woods. There\u2019s an escape attempt, a rescue mission, secret messages, and a battle, but still pretty conventional. More quirkily, there is a constant smattering of exquisite once-sentence images, almost like haiku. (I\u2019ve sprinkled some in this review, as you\u2019ve probably noticed.) Marigolds in the vase are the precise shade of summer, remembered. There are useful historical notes and a list of characters at the back. But it is also a book with a hidden understory: the cover, foreword and afterword do not even hint at any of the\u2026 less factual aspects that link it to The Bone Clocks. So it is two books in one \u2013 depending whether you know more about Marinus when you read this. Wisteria in bloom foams over a crumbling wall. Whereas The Bone Clocks overtly pre-empts possible criticism and highlights deus ex machina moments, this is subtler, except once: \u201cYou\u2019d think these coincidences\u2019d not happen, not off the stage, not in life\u201d, but there aren\u2019t that many of them here. Plot The notes of luminous sonatas hang like grapes from the stave. On a first reading, the plot was at the forefront; rereading after The Bone Clocks, the plot is more of a framework for the ideas within. Nevertheless: It opens with a life and death scene: the delivery of the local Magistrate\u2019s son. However, most of the first section covers the arrival of young, shrewd, clever, honourable clerk, Jacob de Zoet, whose father and uncle were pastors. He is to investigate anomalies in the company accounts. A doe cries for her yearling, slaughtered. We glimpse this beguiling and unfamiliar world, with its complex language (foreigners weren\u2019t allowed to learn it) and rigid ritual, through his eyes. There\u2019s plenty of wheeling and dealing and politics, within the Dutch community and between them and the Japanese \u2013 above and below board in both cases. Business isn\u2019t what it was, which increases tension and the Dutch desire for more copper. In addition, Jacob falls for a Japanese midwife, Orito, who has a burn scar on her face and is a student of Dutch doctor Marinus. The second section concerns a secretive and increasingly sinister mountain shrine, run by the powerful Abbot Enomoto, purportedly to bring fertility to the surrounding area. Monks and nuns are kept apart, mostly, and a new nun is sent, effectively sold by her step-mother to cover her dead father\u2019s debts. This section relates most closely to The Bone Clocks, but also has echoes of (view spoiler) [The Handmaid\u2019s Tale, https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... and Brave New World, https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... (hide spoiler) ] . Glass panes melt the moonlight; paper panes filer it, to chalk dust. The third section has a single British warship, to \u201cplunder the Dutch and seduce the Japanese\" now that the Dutch parent company is bankrupt. Lots of twists (it\u2019s hard to know who is on which side and what their intentions really are), compounded by a captain troubled by gout and, especially, side-effects of its treatment. There are two short sections at the end, each set a few years later, tidying up Jacob\u2019s life story. He achieves a degree of immortality though being painted; The artist \u201cwondered at his air of melancholy distance, but exorcised the ghost of absence from the finished painting.\u201d Crows smear rumours across the melted, sticky sky. Themes All Mitchell\u2019s favourite themes are covered with a light touch: slavery and other abuses of power are at the core, but also islands and rescue; souls, life, death, mortality and immortality; music (Marinus is a skilful pianist); bridges from one place or state to another, going full circle. This last is illustrated when Jacob encourages a ladybird to pass from one hand to the other and back again, \u201cThe ladybird believes\u2026 she is on a momentous journey, but she is going nowhere.\u201d The first is addressed by Marinus, speaking out against slavery, \"In the animal kingdom... the vanquished are eaten\", which echoes a more chilling line in Cloud Atlas, \u201c\u2018The weak are meat, the strong do eat.\u2019\u2026 One fine day, a purely predatory world SHALL consume itself.\u201d Others see the world differently, \u201cPower is a man\u2019s means\u2026 of composing the future.\u201d Fallen red leaves drift over a smeared sun held in dark water. There is also a wonderful passage where a slave ponders the meaning of his state: \u201cSlaves do not own. Slaves are owned.\u201d This includes a spoon carved from a bone, for himself. \u201cHe fathered his children, yes. But to his master they are not \u2018his\u2019\u2026 My true name, my memories are things I own.\u201d Later, \u201cThe word \u2018my\u2019 brings pleasure. The word \u2018my\u2019 brings pain.\u201d Connections with other Mitchell works \u2022\tMarinus is a significant character in this, and in The Bone Clocks. With echoes of all the comets in Cloud Atlas, he is described as entering \u201clike a limping, grey-haired comet\u201d. A shooting star is also mentioned as a throwaway line (listed in Quotes). \u2022\tThere is passing mention of a \u201cbeautiful sunken garden\u201d, tying in with the opera, The Sunken Garden, for which Mitchell wrote the libretto. \u2022\tThe captain of the British ship, Phoebus, is Penhaligon, presumably an ancestor of Jonny Penhaligon in The Bone Clocks. \u2022\tCon Twomey reveals his real name is Fiacre Muntervary, presumably an ancestor of Mo Muntervary in Ghostwritten, Number9dream and The Bone Clocks. \u2022\tArie Grote is pally with Jacob, and in The Bone Clocks, Marinus remembers him fondly. A feathery fish hovers in the current; a bright berry floats by. Secrets in plain sight There are many comments from two characters in the book that are taken as metaphors or hyperbole by those they\u2019re speaking to and by many readers. However, in Mitchell\u2019s world, they are true. Arising from The Bone Clocks: (view spoiler) [ There are two definite atemporals: Marinus is a benevolent and musical medic who has lived through many lives, without desire or control on his part, whereas Abbot Enomoto is a power-hungry would-be immortal, actively seeking the lives of infants to defer death. However, in Orito\u2019s eyes, Marinus achieves immortality in a more conventional way, as \u201ca great teacher\u201d who attains it in his students. Lethargic waves die on the other side of the Sea Wall. \u2022\tMarinus says that his \u201csentence in this lifetime\u201d only began when he recovered from a fever aged six. Horologists typically find themselves in a new body of a child around that age. \u2022\tMarinus says \u201cmy heart is the East\u2019s, in this lifetime.\u201d When Joseph asks if he\u2019s afraid to die so far from home, he replies, \u201cOne has to die somewhere\u201d. \u2022\tMore explicitly, Marinus says \u201cI am indestructible\u2026 I\u2019ll wake up tomorrow \u2013 after a few months \u2013 and start all over again.\u201d When he\u2019s actually dying, he \u201cjoked that he was a grass-snake, shedding one skin.\u201d \u2022\tMarinus is an awed champion of scientific progress and suggests he\u2019ll be around to see what happens in the next hundred years. \u2022\tMarinus says he was taught something \u201cby an unschooled old woman, many lifetimes ago\u201d. \u2022\tAn African slave also realises what Marinus is, \u201cHis skin is a White man\u2019s, but through his eyes you can see his soul is not a White man\u2019s soul. His soul is much older\u2026 A kwaio is an ancestor who does not stay on the island of ancestors. A kwaio returns and returns and returns, each time in a new child.\u201d \u2022\tAbbot Enomoto tells Jacob he used to speak Spanish, though Jacob points out it\u2019s two hundred years since the Spanish were in Japan. \u2022\tWhen Orito sees Enomoto after a gap of a few months, he \u201clooked a full decade younger than she remembers.\u201d \u2022\tRather like a James Bond baddie, Enomoto fills in rather too many gaps when he has a knowing captive, \u201dI am more than six hundred years old. You shall die, in minutes\u201d, and \u201cDown the ages many hundreds\u2026 have all vowed to drag me down to Hell. Yet, as you see, I am still here.\u201d \u2022\tEnomoto says \u201cMount Shiranui rejuvenates me\u201d (it\u2019s where the shrine is) and even \u201cI cannot die\u201d. (hide spoiler) ] On a round rock, an immobile heron waits for fish. Language, translation and stories \u201cA joke is a secret language\u2026 inside words.\u201d A gardener rakes the white stones by the bronze pond. The problematic politics of trading is compounded by complex Japanese etiquette and ritual, but also the difficulties of translation, as is cleverly demonstrated. \u201cInterpreters often have to provide both the answer and the tools to understand it\u201d, but even so, there are words in Dutch and Japanese that have no easy translation into the other, giving scope for misunderstanding, whether accidental, or, sometimes, deliberate, and even then it may be for politeness, to deceive, or to insult. All literature involves translation to some extent: from author\u2019s mind to reader\u2019s interpretation. That is even more so with a book like this, where little can be taken at face value. Dark clouds clot and the dusk is silted with insects and bats. Mitchell writes beautiful lines, but he is fundamentally a storyteller, and we all need stories: \u201cIt is stories\u2026 that make life\u2026 tolerable\u201d, which prompts Orito to picture \u201cthe human mind as a loom that weaves disparate threads of belief, memory and narrative into an entity shoes common name is Self.\u201d Myth matters, too, but \u201cThe truth of a myth\u2026 is not its words but its patterns.\u201d Spirituality, especially persimmons This is not my domain, and others have covered it far better than I can. In particular, Calico: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... The darkness opposite stirs and quickens into the form of a cat. Nevertheless, it\u2019s plain that Mitchell continues his interest in Eastern beliefs, without ever preaching, although Marinus explicitly discusses migration of souls and karma with Jacob. The persimmon is more dominant in this book. The cover of my copy has a Japanese woman holding out a persimmon, and in the book Orito gives one to Jacob, which he finds very sensual and she later dreams about. One of the Hidden Christians has a muddled theology that includes \u201cAdam and Ewa who stole\u2026 [the] sacred persimmon\u201d. And one of the haiku-like lines features one (and it\u2019s actually 5-7-5), \u201cA tiny girl skips like a skinny frog around a persimmon tree\u201d. The persimmon has so many echoes of other fruit: the apple in Eden (and also The Bone Clocks) and Persephone being trapped in the underworld because she ate some pomegranate seeds, to name but two. Gulls wheel through spokes of sunlight over gracious roofs and dowdy thatch. Then there\u2019s Orito, the midwife: bringing new life into the world, but also wielding the power of death by some of the choices she makes. Quotes \u2022\t\u201cInk\u2026 you most fecund of liquids.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAn ink brush\u2026 is a skeleton key for a prisoner\u2019s mind.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cNagasaki itself\u2026 looks oozed from between the verdant mountains\u2019 splayed toes.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe oarsmen propelled\u2026 by \u2018sweeping\u2019 their oars in the manner of a water-snake, in time to a breathy shanty.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cArie Grote had a grin full of holes and a hat made of shark-hide.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cImmortality comes at a steep price.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cPower has an unpleasant taste.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cDust thickens the air, corroding the sun.\u201d \u2022\tIn an earthquake, \u201cGlass panes shatter into false diamonds, timber cracks like bones.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cSmall fire-boats float on sea to guide souls home.\u201d Jacob is stunned the Japanese \u201cbelieve souls migrate in such a manner.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA bat\u2026 chased by its own furry turbulence.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe soul is a verb\u2026 not a noun.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA reluctant window in the Deputy\u2019s House is opened.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe percussion of dripping water.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe river below is a drunk, charging boulders and barging banks.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cDarkens uncoils and slides around the edges of Orito\u2019s vision.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cWinter woods are creaking, knitted and knotted. Dead leaves lie in deep drifts. Needle-tips of birdsong stitch and thread the thicket\u2019s many layers.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe night sky is an indecipherable manuscript.\u201d \u2022\tA \u201ctray descending the ladder of servitude\u201d to be refilled. \u2022\t\u201cSleep kisses his eyelids. The dreamlight is dappled.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA house on the hill spews oily smoke in the wet and falling air.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cInsects encrust the cabin\u2019s window, drawn by the bright lamp.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA pigeon trills on the high window ledge.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cCreation\u2019s light is pure on the papered window.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA black dog wails on an outcrop.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe moon-grey cat inspects the fish indifferently,\u201d \u2022\t\u201cThe rain\u2019s innumerable hoofs clatter on the streets and roofs.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cIn the clear water a shoal of silver fish changes direction.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cKawasemi\u2019s kitten skitters after a dragonfly across the polished veranda.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA maple leaf, fiery and fingered, is blown to the Magistrate\u2019s side.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cA cockchaffer twitches its twin whiskers in the shadow of his inkwell.\u201d \u2022\t\u201cAn invisible woodpecker works in short bursts on a nearby \u2022\t\u201cWarblers call and query, higher up the hidden mountain.\" Original Review from 2011 A good, and exhaustively researched historical novel, but I didn't enjoy it as much as Mitchell's previous books, despite a life-and-death opening. Indeed, life and death is a continuing theme, both of individuals (a major character is a midwife) and of culture and empire. I was expecting greater variety from Mitchell. It turns out my mistake was to view this as a standalone novel, when actually, it the precursor to The Bone Clocks ( https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... and https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ). And Mitchell plans a trilogy (a slightly odd concept, given how connected all his novels are to each other). PLOT Jacob de Zoet is an ambitious and upstanding young clerk. In 1799, he arrives in Dejima, the Dutch concession in Japan, and the only port which traded with the rest of the world. He has five years to prove himself an acceptable son-in-law and is honourable, empathetic, clever and keen to learn. However, he has to negotiate the complexities of Japanese etiquette and Dutch-Japanese relations, as well as plots, embezzlement and love, whilst retaining his principles and furthering his ambitions. Mitchell's knowledge of and love for Japan shines through (he lived there for several years, and his wife is Japanese). The sights, sounds, smells and whole atmosphere of Dejima are very vivid, but I found the much shorter passages set in a mountain shrine/convent more compelling plot-wise. However, that is more of a reflection of my tastes than Mitchell's writing. LANGUAGE I love the importance Mitchell attaches to language, both by demonstrating powerful imagery and more explicit praise of the power of the written word, such as \"An ink-brush... is a skeleton key for a prisoner's mind\". The book also explores issues of translation: the mischief to be had, along with the difficulties it can present. SLAVERY Another fascinating digression was a chapter as a first-person but unsentimental examination of the problems of being a slave (damned if you do and damned if you don't). He owns nothing except for his thoughts, and even then can cause problems. \"The word 'my' brings pleasure. The word 'my' brings pain. These are true words for masters as well as slaves.\" This focus on power and exploitation is something that ties it to all Mitchell's other works. FAVOURITE IMAGES \"A cacophony of frogs detonates.\" \"A hairy beggar kneeling over a puddle of vomit turns out to be a dog.\" \"The yeasty moon is caged in his half Japanese half Dutch window... glass panes melt the moonlight; paper panes filter it, to chalk dust.\" \"Light bleeds in around the casements: Jacob navigates the archipelago of stains across the low wooden ceiling.\" Someone \"savours his victory under an ill-fitting mask of empathy.\" \"An Oriental typhoon possesses a sentience and menace. Daylight is bruised.\" \"Birds are notched on the low sky. Autumn is aging.\" \"The weaverless loom of fortune\" - is that godless predestination? Someone's \"face speaks of fatherlessness, name-calling and resilience\". \"A face like his belongs on a cathedral gutter.\" \"The Oriental rain is fine as lace on the sailors' leathern faces.\" LINKS WITH OTHER BOOKS I have read all Mitchell's previous books and I thought this was the only one that does not have any explicit links to any of the others (beyond familiar themes of mortality, predacity, islands). The nearest I spotted was perhaps a nod at the title of his best-known work, \"West to East, the sky unrolls and rolls its atlas of clouds\" and the fact that Jacob is somewhat similar character to Adam Ewing in \"Cloud Atlas\" ( http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ). However, in this interview about the book, Mitchell points out (1:30) \"at least four\" links to his other books, including that Adam Ewing's ship (from Cloud Atlas) is seen: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vNpwR... Update : This is effectively a prequel to The Bone Clocks , in which Marinus is a major character, and Mitchell has said there will be a trilogy of Marinus books. There is another strong carry-over element from this to The Bone Clocks as well (the immortality-seeking cult). So Jacob is not as much of a straightforward historical novel as it initially seemed. I've written two, very different reviews of The Bone Clocks. They're with all my Mitchell reviews, here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/list... Japanese Creation Myth Calico has written a fascinating review of Cloud Atlas that focuses on Japanese and western religious and philosophical aspects: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... He also pointed me to a Wikipedia page on the subject that is especially pertinent to the early sections of this book: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese... INTERVIEW WITH MITCHELL https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BOCTi... (found by Ian, whose excellent review is here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ) ...more Since discovering David Mitchell a little over a year ago, I have devoured all five of his novels to date. Yet I still cannot say what it is that keeps me impatiently coming back for more. He is a master of voices. He breathes life into characters quickly and effortlessly. He is not afraid to dive into the unknowable mysteries embedded within us. Time, life, dreams, death. Without the crutches of belief or disbelief, he dances around questions of the soul. His villains are ofttimes as compelling Since discovering David Mitchell a little over a year ago, I have devoured all five of his novels to date. Yet I still cannot say what it is that keeps me impatiently coming back for more. He is a master of voices. He breathes life into characters quickly and effortlessly. He is not afraid to dive into the unknowable mysteries embedded within us. Time, life, dreams, death. Without the crutches of belief or disbelief, he dances around questions of the soul. His villains are ofttimes as compelling as his heroes, differing only in their intentions. Every word is written with a highly tuned sense of the present moment. Always now . And still, any list of Mitchell\u2019s qualities will not satisfactorily add up to why I get so much out of his writing. Regardless, within the first page or two in all of his books, I knew I was in good hands and could safely give in to what this reader does best-- read . ...more THE APPRENTICE WEEK 6 - THE SEMI-FINAL Voiceover : Lord Sugar is looking for a historical novelist to invest in. He scoured the country for the very best. Twelve were selected to begin the process. After six weeks of hard battling, only three are left.* It's the Apprentice Week Six! (We see a montage of the three remaining contestants, David Mitchell, Hilary Mantel and Sarah Waters frantically typing away on laptops). This week's task : to write a complete historical novel in only seven days. All th THE APPRENTICE WEEK 6 - THE SEMI-FINAL Voiceover : Lord Sugar is looking for a historical novelist to invest in. He scoured the country for the very best. Twelve were selected to begin the process. After six weeks of hard battling, only three are left.* It's the Apprentice Week Six! (We see a montage of the three remaining contestants, David Mitchell, Hilary Mantel and Sarah Waters frantically typing away on laptops). This week's task : to write a complete historical novel in only seven days. All the sleepless nights, wrecked marriages and substance addictions have come down to this. The novels are written, and Lord Sugar's verdict is in. He has sat through all three power-point presentations. He has cross-checked certain details with Wikipedia. He has read all three books. Hilary, Sarah and David are back in the boardroom. One of them will be fired tonight. Lord Sugar speaks I've had a chance to look through your novels and I gotta say I got a few problems. I'd say there's a fair amount of waffle going on. I'm a businessman and I can tell you you can't build a business empire on waffle. I like things to be plain and simple. That's the way I am. All this fancy pants stuff is not where I'm coming from. This one here, Hilary, this is yours isn't it, A Place of Greater Safety. I mean\u2026 with the best will in the world it's very long, there's a lot of words in it. I got that it's about the French revolution, I did get that far, you'll be relieved to know. But all that yapping. I had problems with that. Sarah, yours I thought was okay \u2013 Fingersmith, good title. The story zipped along, I liked that. But you seem to have to drag lesbians into everything and I'm not sure the public particularly wants lesbians all over. You don't see market stalls piled high with lesbians do you. (Sarah shakes head & looks abashed.) So I had a few problems there. David, yours was very smart, all those ten dollar words, I could feel your brains throbbin away when I read it but\u2026 it didn't have much energy. You might think that of the three this thousand Autumns of whats his name would appeal to me, because the first part is about business, and it must have been very interestin to be the first lot of businessmen who made contact with Japan and got a monopoly on all of the import export of a whole country\u2026 Very interesting. That appealed to me. I could see the frustrations of having poor auditing and no phones. But this thing about that midwife? Nah. It was old hat. I seen it before a million times. It was in South pacific, same thing. Did you see that musical? (David shakes head.) Well you shoulda seen it before you put pen to paper. So that went nowhere fast. I must say I came up the hard way and I haven't had the luxury of yearning for Japanese midwives. So this was a difficult decision, as you know one of you will be leaving the process tonight. You've done well to get through to the semi-final. Don't let anyone take that away from you. So hmm. Er\u2026 I have come to a decision. You may think you are creatin \u2026 what do they call it \u2013 literature but you still need to get bums on pages, to coin a phrase. You have to sell to Joe Public and not just to Miss Josephine Public. If you get my drift. So, with regret, David Mitchell, you're fired. * Previous rounds split the historical novelists into two teams, who would compete on a particular task. Previous tasks included - describe a day in the life of Genghiz Khan - write a mini-series for television starting from the premise that when the two maries visited the tomb they discovered the Jesus was a robot - run a bookshop for a week using gibbons as shop assistants Week six is the semi-final ...more A transient, dubious point of intersection with a secluded, floating world. Two disparate spheres of influence navigating a treacherous turn of the century wherein the actions of either will determine the course of future events. A clash of civilizations where all involved parties are unwilling to cede even something as basic as acknowledgement to the other. Races laboring under the virulent delusion that skin color predetermines superiority or inferiority. Love in the time of prejudice and mutu A transient, dubious point of intersection with a secluded, floating world. Two disparate spheres of influence navigating a treacherous turn of the century wherein the actions of either will determine the course of future events. A clash of civilizations where all involved parties are unwilling to cede even something as basic as acknowledgement to the other. Races laboring under the virulent delusion that skin color predetermines superiority or inferiority. Love in the time of prejudice and mutual suspicion. And a heady Mitchellite cocktail concocted out of these ingredients. So pardon me if I rate this 5 stars despite agreeing with the negatives pointed out by several reviewers who considered the book lacking in a central focus. Because sometimes a purported fatal flaw in a narrative becomes its very strength. The absence of a pivot, upon which the entire story hinges, made the task of deducing Mitchell's motives behind plotting it this way all the more appealing to me. What is the purpose of historical fiction anyway? To visualize the bygone through the lenses of acquired knowledge in the intervening time period? To dissect the evil that men have done with the scalpel of reason? To extract the small kernel of eternal truth residing at the heart of every significant event of the past? To establish the sheer timelessness of the bipolarity of human nature that makes the wheel of cause-and-effect turn and turn? Mitchell has accomplished all of the above with the gift of his unmatched story-telling. In addition, he has managed to break out of the mold of genre tropes altogether by letting the age itself become the core of this tale instead of the eponymous Jacob de Zoet or 'The Land of a Thousand Autumns' (Japan). It's like Mitchell were opening up a portal in time to give us a glimpse into mankind's cautious toeing of the shifting lines of demarcation between the Orient and the Occident. 'Then this...'Jacob sweeps his hand inland '...this numinous Orient....its bells, its dragons, its millions...Here, notions of transmigrations, of karma, which are heresies at home, possess a...a...' The Dutchman sneezes. 'Bless you.' Marinus splashes rainwater on his face. 'A plausibility?' After sampling three of Mitchell's novels of epic scale and scope, there's one thing which I can state with conviction. When it comes to his creations, it's always a 'sum of its parts' approach that works best in evaluating the true worth of what he writes. Good vs Evil - check The significance of the individual will - check Exploration of power and greed - check Political intrigue - check Slavery - check Racism - check Colonialism - check British imperialism - check Subtle criticism of misogyny - check Women characters who matter - check Ships, sailors and nautical jargon - check Mitchell's love for Japan - check Allusion to the brutal massacre of Indians in America's wild west - check Triumph of passive resistance over the use of force - check Pat on the back given to cultural synthesis - check Conflict between the rational and the mystical - check Multiple perspectives - check Writing that inspires pure awe - check A mind-boggling volume of small details - check Too many things happening at the same time - check Addictive, page-turner quality - check Cleverly inserted connections to previous books ( (view spoiler) [hello old Boerhaave! (hide spoiler) ] ) - check I could probably keep adding to this list indefinitely, comfortable in the certainty that every single item on it will have my vigorous nod of approval. Creation unfolds us, despite us and through us, at the speed of days and nights, and we like to call it 'Love'. Clerk Jacob de Zoet, the unlikely hero of our novel, could be another Adam Ewing from 'Cloud Atlas' or a version of Mitchell himself - a passive observer of human fallacies stranded in a zone of conflict where all participants have reluctantly negotiated an uneasy truce, an oblivious witness to a crucial juncture in history. But the moment he steps out of his comfort zone to act in accordance with the dictates of his conscience and will, history's engines, which had been so far been trundling along at a self-assured pace towards greater mishaps, are derailed. A throwback to the whole Nietzschean will to power which formed the backbone of Cloud Atlas is it not? This world, he thinks, contains just one masterpiece, and that is itself. In the shadowy, gray region between consciousness and oblivion, at the precipice of life, when he is physically separated from 'The Land of a Thousand Autumns' by thousands of miles, Dutch de Zoet hears the whispers of a waxed (Japanese) paper door opening and senses the spiritual presence of Orito, the Japanese midwife he loved all his life. I cannot imagine a more poignant affirmation of the insignificance of borderlines. ...So little is actually worthy of either belief or disbelief. Better to strive to co-exist, than seek to disprove... ...more David Mitchell is - and I rarely use the word - unique. David Mitchell writes books like great composers write symphonies. There is sweep, but there is also nuance, small sections that make his instruments of words sound totally fresh. So much is packed into these pages, that I know it will take multiple readings to glean all the goodness. He does so many things well. Mitchell is one of those authors where your heart is racing and you read faster at times, while at others, the sheer virtuosity s David Mitchell is - and I rarely use the word - unique. David Mitchell writes books like great composers write symphonies. There is sweep, but there is also nuance, small sections that make his instruments of words sound totally fresh. So much is packed into these pages, that I know it will take multiple readings to glean all the goodness. He does so many things well. Mitchell is one of those authors where your heart is racing and you read faster at times, while at others, the sheer virtuosity stops you in your tracks. He calls one minor character a \"gnarled oboe of a Kentishman.\" And he also masterfully describes battles and complex arcs of despicable betrayal. This is a rare and wondrous feeling I experience in roughly one out of let's say, 50 books. However, none take me upon such an altogether endearing, beleaguering, surreal, and mind-chattering detailed journey as this. This is not Mitchell at his most brilliant (Cloud Atlas). This is not Mitchell at his most charming (Black Swan Green). Yet, somehow, this is Mitchell at the height of the bard sharing his love for his craft. If there is a negative to cite, it is that the muchness can sometimes frustrate and overwhelm a reader, but when all the balls are in the air and the narrative is driven by personal peril, this book is thrilling in its mastery of plot, dialogue and character.. One of the characters, a firm \"man of science\" says that the soul is not a noun to be found in the body, but a verb. I think that perfectly sums up Mitchell's approach to storytelling, as opposed to say Murakami, who works to extract the soul and examine it as something separate from the human experience. In Mitchell's work, especially here, the world is bursting with life and on every page is is palpable that he is a passionate writer. Perhaps my greatest surprise came near the end of the book, when I suddenly realized that one long, three-page sentence was actually a rhymed poem. Now who can resist such a staggering range and virtuosity of genius? ...more Rating: two headachey stars out of five The Publisher Says : In 1799, Jacob de Zoet disembarks on the tiny island of Dejima, the Dutch East India Company\u2019s remotest trading post in a Japan otherwise closed to the outside world. A junior clerk, his task is to uncover evidence of the previous Chief Resident\u2019s corruption. Cold-shouldered by his compatriots, Jacob earns the trust of a local interpreter and, more dangerously, becomes intrigued by a rare woman\u2014a midwife permitted to study on Dejima under Rating: two headachey stars out of five The Publisher Says : In 1799, Jacob de Zoet disembarks on the tiny island of Dejima, the Dutch East India Company\u2019s remotest trading post in a Japan otherwise closed to the outside world. A junior clerk, his task is to uncover evidence of the previous Chief Resident\u2019s corruption. Cold-shouldered by his compatriots, Jacob earns the trust of a local interpreter and, more dangerously, becomes intrigued by a rare woman\u2014a midwife permitted to study on Dejima under the company physician. He cannot foresee how disastrously each will be betrayed by someone they trust, nor how intertwined and far-reaching the consequences. Duplicity and integrity, love and lust, guilt and faith, cold murder and strange immortality stalk the stage in this enthralling novel, which brings to vivid life the ordinary\u2014and extraordinary\u2014people caught up in a tectonic shift between East and West. My Review : This book is very pleasantly written, taken line by line, and is an interesting window onto a time I find underexplored. De Zoet himself makes me want to scream, and Orito is so unlikely a heroine that I found myself snorting a lot. I've heard lots of carrying on about how many characters there were in the book, but this presented no problem for me, not sure why. Perhaps this is a case of overselling a book, I don't know. I doubt it, frankly; I think I'd be chucking it in the charity bin if it was written by Schmoopie de Zoet, Jacob's great-great-grandchild. It's too many books manhandled into one. It's too much idea for too little room to explore it. It's too wrought, worked over, etched and scrimshawed and chased and gilded and MADE, for me to forget I'm reading a book and instead experience a story. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more David Mitchell and I had not been introduced before. I knew he had written something about clouds and dreams and this looked pretty so I took it home with me. It is a book about Jacob de Zoet, who in 1799 arrives as a clerk on Dejima, an artificial island near Nagasaki and the only point of contact between Japan and the outside world. It is also a book about an English ship and a mountain shrine and secret religious cult. It is a book about Orito, Japanese midwife whose face is half burnt but the David Mitchell and I had not been introduced before. I knew he had written something about clouds and dreams and this looked pretty so I took it home with me. It is a book about Jacob de Zoet, who in 1799 arrives as a clerk on Dejima, an artificial island near Nagasaki and the only point of contact between Japan and the outside world. It is also a book about an English ship and a mountain shrine and secret religious cult. It is a book about Orito, Japanese midwife whose face is half burnt but the book's most noble characters seem to fall in love with despite that. This book is about so many things in so many different ways that it is rather hard to write anything coherent about the plot. Mitchell has one hell of imagination (and patience for research) and I was left in awe. \u201cThe Ten Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet\u201d is tour de force, and unlike the blurb writers, I don\u2019t use this term lightly. Writing this novel must\u2019ve been a massive undertaking but I am not sure regular human beings like you and me can keep up with Mitchell as he jumps around like a flea. The opening chapter blew me away and the first part of the book promised a solid historical novel. Then everything was turned around and we found ourselves in a Japanese shrine taken out straight from an airport bookshop bestseller. It was mysterious and romantic and a little bit silly. I thought: \u201cDavid, really? I know that authors think they can get away with just about anything in the middle of the book but don\u2019t you think you are pushing your luck a little bit here?\u201d. David took my advice and abandoned the shrine plotline halfway through and took us back to Jacob de Zoet just when we forgot he was supposed to be the main character and stopped caring about him altogether. After an episode on an English ship starring a captain suffering from gout we get to the epilogue with Jacob de Zoet, as though Mitchell was convinced we needed a closure. As far as epilogues go this one was as unnecessary as the epilogue in the last Harry Potter book. I really don\u2019t know what to make out of this book. It read easily even if Mitchell has the most bizarre writing style ever. Oh boy, does he love his suspension points... They are everywhere... Sometimes to say that many things happen at once... she looked outside the window... As if we didn\u2019t know that many things can happen at once... the washing machine started the spinning cycle\u2026 And on page 383 Mitchell uses suspension points 21 times... My flatmate\u2019s alarm went off but he is still sleeping... There was just too much of everything in this book and in the end it seems that all these things have cancelled each other out. Just what was I supposed to get out of this novel? What point (if any) was it trying to make? Don\u2019t get me wrong. I did enjoy it, at times I enjoyed it a lot, even the airport paperback bits, but I think Mitchell\u2019s imagination can be put to a much better use... Someone flushed the toilet... ...more On Mitchell's Writing Mitchell is one of my favourite writers, and I really have to squee about how masterfully he uses words. Here\u2019s an example of his writing in this novel. Mitchell is setting a scene where Jacob is waiting in the antechamber to his new boss\u2019s office. Along the walls of the antechamber are displayed specimens of exotic animals preserved in formaldehyde. As he looks at the specimens, Jacob recalls the events that led him to this place. Now Mitchell could have written it rather c On Mitchell's Writing Mitchell is one of my favourite writers, and I really have to squee about how masterfully he uses words. Here\u2019s an example of his writing in this novel. Mitchell is setting a scene where Jacob is waiting in the antechamber to his new boss\u2019s office. Along the walls of the antechamber are displayed specimens of exotic animals preserved in formaldehyde. As he looks at the specimens, Jacob recalls the events that led him to this place. Now Mitchell could have written it rather conventionally like this (and note that all I am doing is rearranging the exact wording that he uses with the sole addition indicated in square brackets.) A pickled dragon of Kandy bears an uncanny resemblance to Anna\u2019s father, and Jacob recalls a fateful conversation with the gentleman in his Rotterdam drawing-room. Carriages passed by below, and the lamplighter was doing his rounds. \u2018Anna has told me,\u2019 her father began, \u2018the surprising facts of the situation, de Zoet and I have, accordingly, enumerated your merits and demerits. In the credit column: you are a fastidious clerk of good character who has not abused his advantage over Anna\u2019s affections. In the debit column, you are a clerk: not a merchant, not a shipper or even a warehouse-master, but a clerk. I don\u2019t doubt your affection. But affection is merely the plum in the pudding: the pudding itself is wealth . [Jacob strolls from one pickled object to another as he recalls the unpleasant events of that day so long ago that has led him to this antechamber.] The Kandy dragon\u2019s neighbour is a slack-jawed viper of the Celebes. A baby alligator from Halmahera has a demon\u2019s delighted grin. The alligator\u2019s umbilical cord is attached to its shell for all eternity. It was a posting to Halmahera from which Vorstenbosch rescued Jacob. A tortoise from the Island of Diego Garcia appears to be weeping. Jacob touches the jar of a Barbados lamprey with his broken nose. The lamprey\u2019s O-shaped mouth is a grinding mill of razor-sharp Vs and Ws. Instead, Mitchell writes it this way: A pickled dragon of Kandy bears an uncanny resemblance to Anna\u2019s father, and Jacob recalls a fateful conversation with the gentleman in his Rotterdam drawing-room. Carriages passed by below, and the lamplighter was doing his rounds. \u2018Anna has told me,\u2019 her father began, \u2018the surprising facts of the situation, de Zoet \u2026 The Kandy dragon\u2019s neighbour is a slack-jawed viper of the Celebes. \u2018\u2026 and I have, accordingly, enumerated your merits and demerits. A baby alligator from Halmahera has a demon\u2019s delighted grin. \u2018In the credit column: you are a fastidious clerk of good character \u2026 The alligator\u2019s umbilical cord is attached to its shell for all eternity. \u2018\u2026 who has not abused his advantage over Anna\u2019s affections. It was a posting to Halmahera from which Vorstenbosch rescued Jacob. \u2018In the debit column, you are a clerk: not a merchant, not a shipper \u2026 A tortoise from the Island of Diego Garcia appears to be weeping. \u2018\u2026 or even a warehouse-master, but a clerk. I don\u2019t doubt your affection. Jacob touches the jar of a Barbados lamprey with his broken nose. \u2018But affection is merely the plum in the pudding: the pudding itself is wealth . The lamprey\u2019s O-shaped mouth is a grinding mill of razor-sharp Vs and Ws. I found this brilliantly done and highly effective. One of the challenges of narrative is its linear structure. However, we don\u2019t live or experience events in a completely linear way. We might be loading clothes into the washing machine and having a conversation or listening to the radio while driving. There is a subtle interplay between both while we experience them, but how do you communicate that with words on a page\u2014an essentially linear experience? The conventional manner of writing deals with it by setting it out as distinct blocks but telling us that these two distinct blocks of narrative are occurring simultaneously (and so I had to add, \u201cJacob strolls from one pickled object to another as he recalls the unpleasant events of that day so long ago that has led him to this antechamber.\u201d) However, when we read it, we experience it not as a participant in the simultaneity but as discrete and sequential events. Mitchell breaks down that wall. Jacob\u2019s thought processes as he walks from one specimen jar to another are laid out as we see what he sees: Mitchell comes close to achieving the experience of simultaneity in a linear narrative, which is an amazing achievement. At the same time, it\u2019s not confusing to us, we can follow what is going on. While that in itself would be worth noting, it is simply dazzling and clever technique. Not something to be sneezed at, of course, but Mitchell manages to take it much further. The language used to describe the specimens is both a commentary on and reflection of Jacob\u2019s inner emotions and reactions to that conversation. So, as Anna\u2019s father speaks of Jacob\u2019s merits and demerits, Jacob looks at a baby alligator which has a \u201cdemon\u2019s delighted grin\u201d. As he speaks of Jacob being only a clerk, Jacob looks at a tortoise that \u201cappears to be weeping\u201d. And when he speaks of the need for wealth, Jacob looks at the lamprey\u2019s sharp teeth. Mitchell doesn\u2019t have to tell us that Jacob was upset by his conversation with Anna\u2019s father or what Jacob thinks of the man: he shows it to us in a much more subtle way. And that\u2019s what raises it from dazzling technique to writerly genius. And just look at the way the lines are laid out. As Sandybanks notes in her review , this is writing that straddles the line between prose and poetry. She's already pointed to the haiku-like snippets that pepper the narrative. Here's another description of Japan that's as much prose poem as it is a paragraph in a novel. I'm going to lay it out in stanzas to show how blurred the line is betwen prose and poetry but it's written as a single paragraph: Gulls wheel through spokes of sunlight Over gracious roofs and dowdy thatch, snatching Entrails at the marketplace and escaping Over cloistered gardens, spike topped walls and treble-bolted doors. Gulls alight on whitewashed gables, Creaking pagodas and dung-ripe stables; Circle over towers and cavernous bells And over hidden squares where urns of urine sit by covered wells, Watched by mule-drivers, mules and wolf-snouted dogs, Ignored by hunch-backed makers of clogs; Gather speed up The stoned-in Nakashima River and fly Beneath the arches of its bridges, Glimpsed from kitchen doors, Watched by farmers Walking high, stony ridges. Gulls fly through clouds of steam from laundries' vats; Over kites unthreading corpses of cats; Over scholars glimpsing truth in fragile patterns; Over bath-house adulterers, heartbroken slatterns; Fishwives dismembering lobsters and crabs; Their husbands gutting mackerel on slabs; Woodcutters' sons sharpening axes; Candle-makers rolling waxes; Flint-eyed officials milking taxes; Etiolated lacquerers; mottle-skinned dyers; Imprecise soothsayers; unblinking liars; Weavers of mats; cutters of rushes; Ink-lipped calligraphers dipping brushes; Booksellers ruined by unsold books; Ladies-in-waiting; tasters; dressers; Filching page-boys; runny-nosed cooks; Sunless attic nooks Where seamstresses prick calloused fingers; Limping malingerers; Swineherds; swindlers; Lip-chewed debtors rich in excuses; Heard-it-all creditors tightening nooses; Prisoners haunted by happier lives And ageing rakes by other men's wives; Skeletal tutors goaded to fits; Firemen-turned-looters when occasion permits; Tongue-tied witnesses; purchased judges; Mothers-in-law nurturing briars and grudges; Apothecaries grinding powders with mortars; Palanquins carrying not-yet-wed daughters; Silent nuns; nine-year-old whores; The once-were-beautiful gnawed by sores; Statues of Jizo anointed with posies; Syphilitics sneezing through rotted-off noses; Potters; barbers; hawkers of oil; Tanners; cutlers; carters of night-soil; Gate-keepers; Bee-keepers; Blacksmiths and drapers; Torturers; wet-nurses; Perjurers; cut-purses; The newborn; the growing; the strong-willed and pliant; The ailing; the dying; the weak and defiant; Over the roof of a painter withdrawn First from the world, then his family, and Down into a masterpiece that has, in the end, Withdrawn from its creator; and Around again, where their flight began, Over the balcony of the Room of Last Chrysanthemum, Where a puddle from last night's rain is evaporating; A puddle in which Magistrate Shiroyama observes The blurred reflections of gulls Wheeling through spokes of sunlight. This world, he thinks, contains just one masterpiece, and that is Itself. On Mitchell's Themes A running theme through the novel is power and its abuse, which fits in nicely with the current zeitgeist. It\u2019s a familiar motif in his works: Cloud Atlas tackled it directly, while it was more obliquely handled in Black Swan Green . In fact, the book reads almost like a lost chapter from Cloud Atlas . He not only revisits the same themes, he uses a similar episodic narrative with shifting viewpoints. If you\u2019ve read Cloud Atlas , some of those episodes will echo loudly indeed. The Orientalist notion of karma/reincarnation comes in here as well. (view spoiler) [In Cloud Atlas , it was the soul facing the same challenge across different life times. (hide spoiler) ] Here, each character is brought face-to-face with the key challenge of doing the right thing especially when that might mean losing your freedom, your life, or your dearest dream. (view spoiler) [Do you go along with corruption if that is the price of your promotion or do you refuse to be a part of it? Do you let a friend die while you escape from prison when you are the only one with the knowledge to save her, or do you give up your escape to go back? (hide spoiler) ] At one point, a character asks, \u201cDo believers in karma, Doctor, believe that one\u2019s unintentional sins come back to haunt one not in one\u2019s next life but within this one, within a single lifetime?\u201d The concept of the butterfly effect in human lives has been explored in many other fictions, but Mitchell couples it here with the concept of karma. Events cascade on other events: do the right thing now and a domino gets knocked-down to start another chain of events putting another person on the cusp of another moral dilemma. Each dilemma leads to another for another, enfolding us all in a larger, bigger event whose resolution is ultimately resolved by each of these little decisions made all unknowingly by different persons along the way. Wheels enmeshed within larger wheels and on ultimately to intertwine with events on the world stage. The personal is indeed ultimately the political for who knows where the ripples from our decisions land up. There is a belief in Taoist thought that the ultimate responsibility for our actions is not simply in their immediate effects but in how they play out over time. It's less \u201cfor want of a nail\u201d though and more \u201cfor want of a sense of compassion\u201d. So utterly appropriate to our time: who would have thought, for example, that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan would lead to the US sponsoring the mujahidin against whom the Soviets would lose a costly and expensive war thereby undermining the Soviet empire whose fall would see the triumphalist return of the neo-cons whose hubris would lead them into the same quagmire in Iraq and a guns and butter policy that would bring the US to its current heavily indebted state? Who's personal moral dilemmas led the world to this impasse? And what was our own role in the current state of affairs? Take the car out for a drive today, and your grandchild might be climate refugee tomorrow. Wheels within wheels indeed, and we all have blood on our hands. What Others Thought Times Online (\u201c spectacularly accomplished and thrillingly suspenseful \u201d), The Independent (\u201c Mitchell flexes his prose virtuosity \u201d), The Guardian (\u201c All Mitchell's architectural wizardry and verbal intensity are at play\u2014but now subordinated solely into the service of his subject matter. \u201d), and The Telegraph (\u201c a fast-verging-on-breathless narrative that makes full and delighted use of the ripping yarn tool kit \u201d). ...more Exit Only Through the Sea Gate \"The Thousand Autumns\" is set in Nagasaki over a period of almost 20 years beginning in 1799. Dutch traders are restricted to an island in the harbour called \"Dejima\" . From the Japanese perspective, its name reflects the fact that it is an \"exit island\". Dutch ships arrive at and depart from the sea gate, while the Japanese officials and traders access the island through a land gate. The Dutch are not permitted to enter Japan proper under the isolationist Sakoku pol Exit Only Through the Sea Gate \"The Thousand Autumns\" is set in Nagasaki over a period of almost 20 years beginning in 1799. Dutch traders are restricted to an island in the harbour called \"Dejima\" . From the Japanese perspective, its name reflects the fact that it is an \"exit island\". Dutch ships arrive at and depart from the sea gate, while the Japanese officials and traders access the island through a land gate. The Dutch are not permitted to enter Japan proper under the isolationist Sakoku policy. Thus, from their point of view, it is not a point of entry. As much as it represents the intersection of two cultures, it is more a place of confinement for the Dutch. Fan-shaped Dejima The Land of a Thousand Autumns Jacob de Zoet inhabits this point of intersection. Nominally an earnest and trustworthy clerk who manages the books of account, he is also responsible for communication with the Japanese. He learns the language in order to negotiate, record and translate contractual documents. As a result, he has the greatest opportunity to learn about and appreciate Japanese people and culture. He soon discovers that he shares an affinity with the Japanese translator Ogawa, one which extends to an affection for the midwife Orito, the daughter of a highly respected, but debt-ridden, samurai. A Scroll of a Hundred Things The novel begins with a birth and ends with a death. Orito is present physically at one and spiritually at the other. Both scenes contain some of the best writing I've ever read. In between is a tightly-plotted, present-tense, third-person narrative that exploits the full potential of the characters as well as the clash of cultures: sovereignty, politics, property, jurisprudence, economics, trade, wealth, translation, diplomacy, protocol, etiquette, desire, love, intrigue, piety, worship, pilgrimage, medicine, midwifery, motherhood, sisterhood and religious orders. This list might sound intimidating (\"I could tell you a hundred things, and nothing at all\"), but the tale prevails. Character and plot dominate. Post-modern gimmickry takes a back seat to a love story that is close to historical fiction. The Author's Creation Unfolds Mitchell describes love as an act of creation: \"Creation unfolds around us, despite us and through us, at the speed of days and nights, and we call it 'Love'. Needless to say, the love is illicit. Ultimately, the novel is the only evidence of its existence. It documents the fans and drawings and scrolls that captured it at the time. Like all great art and desire, it is both perpetrated and perpetuated by words and images. Orito's fan (exchanged for a persimmon, (view spoiler) [if not perhaps an artichoke (hide spoiler) ] ) The Ghost of Future Regret Still, it is \"a story that must move...and misfortune is motion. Contentment is inertia.\" The \"ghost of future regret\" calls upon the infatuated Jacob to act impulsively: \"I love her, comes the thought, as true as sunlight.\" Spontaneity struggles with rules. Orito acts within the bounds of tradition, uncertain whether she wants the life of \"a Dejima wife protected by a foreigner's money\". Then: \"...the Land-Gate slams shut. The well-oiled bolt slides home.\" A Master of Go This is just the beginning. There is much to come yet. Only, unlike the game of Go that winds its way through the novel, there is no \"clean board of lines and intersections\": \"If only time was a sequence of considered moves and not a chaos of slippages and blunders.\" You have to wonder whether this longing applies to the act of writing as well. A Well-Waxed Paper Door Between Two Worlds Mitchell's use of language is both highly functional and beautiful. Perfect sentences punctuate the action like jewels. Many have the aphoristic quality of haiku. He uses words like brush strokes: \"A tiny girl skips Like a skinny frog around A persimmon tree.\" \"Twilight is cold With the threat of snow. The forest's edges Dissolve and blur. A black dog waits On an outcrop. He senses a fox's hot stink. His silver-haired mistress Struggles up the twisted path. A dead branch cracks Under a deer's hoof Across the loud stream. An owl cries, In this cedar or that fir... Once, twice, near, gone.\" \"The House may own me, But it shan't own Time.\" \"To list and name people Is to subjugate them.\" \"The soul is a verb, Not a noun.\" \"Be less ambitious And more content.\" For the first third of the novel, I wasn't sure where it was going or at what pace. However, the brushwork soon cohered, until a vivid picture emerged and the dynamic became irresistible. I read on, eager to learn whether the gate between the two worlds would open again. I can't tell you, but I hope you get to enjoy the experience as much as I did. SOUNDTRACK: Teenage Fanclub & Jad Fair - \"Smile\" (from the album \"Words Of Wisdom And Hope\") https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-f0D... Steve Hackett - \"Please Don't Touch\" (Live) The first instrumental section (roughly 2.5 minutes?) is a piece called \"Land of a Thousand Autumns\". Mitchell reveals that this is one of the names Japan gave itself. The instrumental appeared on a 1978 album and precedes the novel.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Last month I was visiting the MFA in Boston. After an hour or two of wandering through rooms sporting giant, bombastic 19th century American paintings, I came upon a dim hall with small, colorful prints hanging from the wall, like this one: This was my first taste of Utagawa Hiroshige's One Hundred Famous Views of Edo , and I was immediately transfixed. Although the Edo referred to in the Hiroshige prints is a place (a city later to be renamed Tokyo), Edo also refers to the period of Japanese hist Last month I was visiting the MFA in Boston. After an hour or two of wandering through rooms sporting giant, bombastic 19th century American paintings, I came upon a dim hall with small, colorful prints hanging from the wall, like this one: This was my first taste of Utagawa Hiroshige's One Hundred Famous Views of Edo , and I was immediately transfixed. Although the Edo referred to in the Hiroshige prints is a place (a city later to be renamed Tokyo), Edo also refers to the period of Japanese history starting from around the turn of the 17th century through the late 19th century. I know nothing of Japanese history, but like all good art, the Hiroshige prints evoke their place and time so vividly that by the time I left the hall I felt like an expert on the Tokugawa shogunate. When I got home I ordered several reproductions of my favorite pieces. Coincidentally, during my trip to Boston, I was reading Cloud Atlas , and was becoming one of the millions to fall under its spell, and so when shortly thereafter I saw Mitchell\u2019s new book in my local bookstore sporting a Hiroshige print on its cover (the very same one shown above, in fact, titled \u201cSugatami Bridge, Omokage Bridge\u201d), and when I saw that it was set in Nagasaki during the Edo period at the turn of the 19th century, I immediately put my request in at the library and bided my time. Edo-era Japan was notoriously insular, and the island of Dejima, the geographic locus of this novel, epitomizes that insularity: Dutch traders to Japan could not set foot in the Japanese nation, but this tiny artificial island in Nagasaki bay could house the Dutch garrison because it was not technically Japanese soil. On this island just before the turn of the 19th century arrives Jacob de Zoet, a devout, somewhat na\u00efve Dutch clerk with an I-cannot-tell-a-lie kind of honesty. Although tasked by the new Chief Resident to document the corruption that has afflicted the Dutch operation in the years preceding his arrival, Jacob soon gets caught up in a series of intrigues, including bending his ethics to assist the Chief Resident in his negotiations to increase the copper quota, a shady transaction with one of Nagasaki\u2019s most powerful and shady players, and internecine squabbles among his own people culminating in a nasty double cross of sorts. And then he meets Orito, a Japanese woman with a burn mark covering half her face, falls in love, and we\u2019re off to the races. Jacob\u2019s interest in Orito, which is the string that pulls us through the first third of the novel, feels a bit forced at first, almost as if the author is nudging the two together and saying \u201cthere there you two, go develop a love interest so I can get this novel off the ground.\u201d Likewise, early on, the dialog among the Dutch feels similarly forced, with authorial interruptions separating the first clause of a character\u2019s words from the rest, and a very stylized patois that at times strikes a false note. But as the story builds a head of steam and the characters evolve their individual quiddity this weakness fall away and, from around page 150 or so I was captive. As the story progresses, following its various strands to a hermetic mountain monastery with a dark secret, to an uninvited British frigate that shows up on Nagasaki Harbor one day, to the halls of the local magistrate and back to grungy old Dejima, we are treated to dozens of colorful stories told by various members of the novel\u2019s large ensemble cast. As I mentioned in one of my status update, these self-enclosed tales, in addition to serving as extended characterization (and treating us to instances of Mitchell\u2019s virtuosity for clever argot), are little way stations where we get a breather from the snowballing tension of the plot and can revel in pure storytelling for the space of a page or two. In Cloud Atlas, the disparate narratives seemed to be driving home a point about human greed leading to a dehumanized, destructive society, and this theme creeps up here as well. Here\u2019s a passage from later in the book where a slave on Dejima talks about the trade his masters engage in: \u201cTheir talk turns to owning, or to profit, or loss, or buying, or selling, or stealing, or hiring, or renting, or swindling. For white men, to live is to own, or to try to own more, or to die trying to own more. Their appetites are astonishing!\u201d It's hard not to feel the truth of this by the end of this story. This is a novel that combines the very best of literary virtuosity with the historical verisimilitude of first-rate period drama with the slow and skillful build up and rapid release of tension that I associate with the best thrillers. It was a real pleasure to spend a week with it. ...more Is there anything David Mitchell can't do? Dazzling is the word for this. Fizzing with life, it appears at first to be a conventional historical novel, but then swoops into speculative fiction that is reminiscent of Margaret Atwood or Kazuo Ishiguro, with human babies being 'farmed' for nefarious reasons, then back to the historical world and a wonderfully exciting naval stand-off, where Our Hero is saved by his red hair. (You'll have to read it to find out). James Wood, a critic who I admire gr Is there anything David Mitchell can't do? Dazzling is the word for this. Fizzing with life, it appears at first to be a conventional historical novel, but then swoops into speculative fiction that is reminiscent of Margaret Atwood or Kazuo Ishiguro, with human babies being 'farmed' for nefarious reasons, then back to the historical world and a wonderfully exciting naval stand-off, where Our Hero is saved by his red hair. (You'll have to read it to find out). James Wood, a critic who I admire greatly, has to go far to find fault, but he does manage it. In his article: http://www.newyorker.com/arts/critics... he bemoans the lack of inner necessity: just because Mitchell can visit eighteenth century Japan is not enough of a reason to do so, a moral or metaphysical pressure has been sacrificed to sheer joyful storytelling, and asks where is the present, what does this tale tell of present sensibilities? But I don't agree: I see that question of the red hair as essential: small details can have huge repercussions that none of us could ever foresee. What we see as a failure might turn out to be all for the best in the long run, or not, depending entirely on the point of view. The world as interconnected, and yet unfathomable, any 'knowledge' as illusion, as any assumptions we make are scuppered by experience - a constant throughout the book is the question of trust, who can we trust, who do we 'know' well enough to dare to guess at their motivations and intentions? Everyone is on the make, all of them trying to sting before they are stung, and then, on top of all that, there is also the conflict between scientific, rational, empirical knowledge and mystical, occult, superstition; we may think that's a no-brainer, but then we're back to those coincidences and odd chance encounters that can alter the entire course of history, so where is our logical rationality then? Is that enough for you Mr Wood? ...more The story of star-crossed lovers on two sides of a divide during a turbulent historical period is the staple of many an historical novel. <+++>The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet</+++> , at first glane, is just that: however, the author has entered uncharted waters by venturing into an area which is seldom explored in historical novels, by choosing Japan during her international isolation as the venue and making the clerk of the erstwhile Dutch East India company, the unlikely hero. Jacob de Zoet has joine The story of star-crossed lovers on two sides of a divide during a turbulent historical period is the staple of many an historical novel. <+++>The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet</+++> , at first glane, is just that: however, the author has entered uncharted waters by venturing into an area which is seldom explored in historical novels, by choosing Japan during her international isolation as the venue and making the clerk of the erstwhile Dutch East India company, the unlikely hero. Jacob de Zoet has joined the Dutch East India Company as a clerk, due to reasons common to many young men of his generation: in the hope of making a quick fortune to marry the girl of his dreams. But all too soon he discovers that to proceed in his career, he has to sell his soul to the devil. He is that anomaly, an honest man in a European commercial enterprise in a corrupt era. Jacob refuses to do this, and falls afoul of his superiors, ruining his bright career chances: to compound his woes, he falls in love with Orito Aibagawa, a Japanese midwife with a burn disfiguring half her face. His already hopeless suit becomes even more impossible when Orito is sold into virtual slavery at the Mount Shiranui shrine to pay off her dead father's debts by her stepmother. Deliverance comes for Jacob and Orito, however, at the end, but not in any way envisaged by them. Mitchell's novel is panoramic in sweep and flawless in execution. His technique is cinematic: sentences follow the principles of montage, so that each thought process of a character, each speech is interspersed with happenings in the surroundings (in fact, all the while I was reading this novel, I was running a movie in my mind: especially part two in the Shiranui shrine which was in Multicolour and Panavision and directed by Kurosawa). This, along with the fact that it is written entirely in the present tense, gives a sense of immediacy to the narrative. The characterisation is also terrific; especially the villain, Enomoto, is worthy of Amrish Puri! Then why the three stars? Well, IMO, what the novel provides in technique it misses in substance. For all its page-turning suspense and colourful background, I found the story to be rather lacking in a central focus. I was confused at the end on what the author was trying to say through this novel. After rising to a satisfying plateau through parts one and two, part three was a partial let-down: and the resolution was totally unsatisfying. Let us just say that Mitchell raised my hopes only to dash them to the ground. Maybe my high hopes at the beginning made my review a trifle harsh. But don't be put off, it's a good read anyway. ...more Right in the testicles. That's where this book kicked my suspension of disbelief, landing a crunching, foetal-position-inducing blow that was all the more painful for being unexpected. I'm a big fan of David Mitchell's work. I love Cloud Atlas and I've given it as a birthday gift to several friends. Ditto for Ghostwritten , a book I greatly respect for it's blend of narratives and voices, and genres. I enjoyed Numberninedream , and thought Black Swan Green was, well, OK. I dig Mitchell's ability to Right in the testicles. That's where this book kicked my suspension of disbelief, landing a crunching, foetal-position-inducing blow that was all the more painful for being unexpected. I'm a big fan of David Mitchell's work. I love Cloud Atlas and I've given it as a birthday gift to several friends. Ditto for Ghostwritten , a book I greatly respect for it's blend of narratives and voices, and genres. I enjoyed Numberninedream , and thought Black Swan Green was, well, OK. I dig Mitchell's ability to write in several, very different authorial voices, and his blending of lit-fic and Sci-Fi. I expected to love this book, and I was disappointed. The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet begins well, and presents an interesting set of characters in a colorful setting. Young Dutch Clerk Jacob De Zoet arrives at a trading island off the coast of 1799 Japan, where he is to work as a clerk for the Dutch Easy India company. He meets the intriguing Japanese midwife Orito, gets caught up in the local politics of his fellow Dutch traders and sets the reader on a journey through a sometimes mystical feudal Japan and its relations with the West. As with all of Mitchell's work, The Thousand Autumns is well written. The setting is interesting and convincing, and the narrative is fairly engaging, if not always pulse-racingly exciting. I liked some of the characters, particularly the supporting cast of Dutch traders. Sadly, The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet did not float my Dutch East India Company Merchantman in the same way Mitchell's other books did. I was enjoying, if not loving the story until the aforementioned testicular assault occurred. (If you are without said organs, please substitute another part of your anatomy which you particularly dislike being kicked). Essentially, something in the narrative happened that was so implausible to me, so ridiculous for the character involved, that it kicked me right out of the book and into WTF-ville. (view spoiler) [ Orito escapes from the horrible monastery-prison where she has been incarcerated. In this monastery monks regularly rape female prisoners, then ritually sacrifice the resultant offspring. The poor women erroneously believe that their children have gone to the local town to live, and when their childbearing years end they too are dispatched to \u2018the village\u2019. After Orito has conclusively escaped and is heading down the mountain she begins to ponder returning to this hell-hole as one of the women is pregnant and only Orito can save her and the baby (ignoring the fact that both mom and bub will eventually be murdered.) I thought this might just the character\u2019s conscience playing on her as she heads to freedom and the authorities, but as her next chapter opens she is back in ye olde monastery rape prison. Up to this point she seemed a strong, logical character and her voluntary return to confinement completely clashed with my perceptions of her. (hide spoiler) ] My suspension of disbelief was broken and my engagement with the book withered. I had to force myself to read through to the last page. Maybe it's unfair to rate a book down because one thing threw you or made you suspicious of the author (hell, making you aware of the author is often bad enough). It may seem a little capricious, but if there's anything that ruins a read for me it's stumbling across the sort of unlikely plot device that makes you want to phone the author and ask them whether they missed their morning coffee on the day they wrote that section of the story. Across the numerous reviews of The Thousand Autumns I've read, no-one else has mentioned having this problem, and I\u2019m curious, is this something anyone else has encountered? Is it something that has happened with other books you\u2019ve read? This is the second occasion in recent years that a story has been ruined for me by an unlikely or implausible plot development- the other book was Peter F. Hamilton\u2019s The Reality Dysfunction and I couldn\u2019t bring myself to finish that one. Anyway, maybe you won't be bothered by this plot twist. Maybe you'll love this book. Maybe you\u2019ll be carried away to feudal Japan and De Zoet and Orito's story will make you gasp, sigh, and scowl in all the right places, free from savage blows to your inner reader's sensitive areas. ...more 3.5 stars A fascinating historical novel centering around the idea of translation and the suspension between two cultures, two worlds, two loves. I thought it excelled, as Mitchell always does, at witty, realistic dialogue. What it lacked in movement, it made up for in deep character study and a compelling main character. Not my favorite Mitchell, but certainly not my least favorite. I was happy to see Mitchell try his hand at historical fiction. While he\u2019s always been considered an immensely skilled writer and a superb storyteller, it's his inventive structuring that seems to bring forth the highest praise. Read Cloud Atlas to see if you agree. With this most recent work, as he said in a post-publication interview, he was trying a more straightforward narrative form \u2013 one without gewgaws (I think that was the word he used, or maybe it was \u201cjiggery-pokery\u201d). I\u2019m pleased to r I was happy to see Mitchell try his hand at historical fiction. While he\u2019s always been considered an immensely skilled writer and a superb storyteller, it's his inventive structuring that seems to bring forth the highest praise. Read Cloud Atlas to see if you agree. With this most recent work, as he said in a post-publication interview, he was trying a more straightforward narrative form \u2013 one without gewgaws (I think that was the word he used, or maybe it was \u201cjiggery-pokery\u201d). I\u2019m pleased to report that he succeeded beyond all expectations, even with the ropes of convention constraining him. Jacob was an earnest young Dutchmen amongst the motley assemblage at a remote trading post on Dejima, an island near Nagasaki. The story began in 1799 at a time when Japan was a very closed society. In fact, the isolated post offered the only real exposure to the Western way of life. Unfortunately, honor was scarce on all sides of a typical Dutch East Indies Company transaction. Jacob, a junior clerk at the time, did meet some virtuous people, though. Foremost among them was a midwife named Orito Aibagawa who was studying medicine under Marinus, the highly skilled, highly evolved physician on the island. Orito was a promising student, empathetic, and attractive despite a bad burn mark on the side of her face. Young Jacob was smitten. Romance wasn\u2019t easy, though, for reasons the reader soon discovers. Jacob had other travails, too, when he refused to falsify one of the shipping documents. He was demoted and made to report to a conniving, downright scurvy rival. Then Orito was sent away. And it sure didn\u2019t help matters when the language and culture were so different and there were so few people he could trust. I\u2019d rather not get too deep into the plot (though it\u2019s a worthy one) and instead focus on the book\u2019s other qualities. I\u2019m convinced that David Mitchell is incapable of committing a bad sentence to paper. He\u2019s also very good with character development as we see with Jacob, Orito, and various translators, magistrates, and seafarers. And that rare storytelling ability I mentioned, it takes the action well beyond the island. He leads us up a mountain to a nunnery harboring secrets and to treacherous parts of the Japanese shogunate. I was already a big Mitchell fan so it was interesting to me to see the contrasts with his earlier works. One thing that was different was the immense amount of research involved in putting a book like this together. In fact, there is a section at the end where Mitchell appends a short essay on the topic of historical fiction. He said he\u2019d tried earlier to apply the antiquated language of the times, making \u201cextensive word lists to incorporate into [his] text\u2014and ended up with Blackadder .\u201d He also mentioned the danger in showing off his recently acquired scholarship at the expense of narrative flow. Even so, one criticism of the book was that he may have gone a little too far with his descriptive passages. Once the story gained momentum, though, that was no longer an issue. I wanted to give this the full five stars, but in the end couldn\u2019t quite do it. My problem was with Jacob. He seemed a tad too forthright, at times, with a lack of people smarts. We admire his integrity and hard work, but can\u2019t always see his human aspect. Maybe it\u2019s just that I\u2019m so used to really liking (or at least understanding the frailties of) Mitchell\u2019s main characters and had been hoping to do so again. Overall, though, this was a great reading experience. And my view of Mitchell himself is still as high as any cloud in the sky, mapped or otherwise. ...more I really enjoyed this book immensely, probably a 4.5 of 5. It's so close to a 5 and someday I may return and decide it is. The story grabbed me from the start and I believe that has to have some connection to Mitchell's skills as a writer and story teller as well as the story itself as tales of the sea and exploration are usually of no interest to me. His picture of the cultures of the time, both Japanese and the transplanted Europeans, captured my interest from the first pages and always had a f I really enjoyed this book immensely, probably a 4.5 of 5. It's so close to a 5 and someday I may return and decide it is. The story grabbed me from the start and I believe that has to have some connection to Mitchell's skills as a writer and story teller as well as the story itself as tales of the sea and exploration are usually of no interest to me. His picture of the cultures of the time, both Japanese and the transplanted Europeans, captured my interest from the first pages and always had a feeling of authenticity to it--though I have to say I know little to nothing about that area in that era. While the myriad characters might have been confusing to start, I decided to allow them to flow through the story, and the stronger ones took up a stronger presence as I'd hoped they would. I only wish Orito had played a larger role, but as she said, her role was huge--to aid in ending the Shrine and its practices. I liked the doctor, felt I came to know Jacob through his actions and how he was reflected in others eyes and actions. So many responses to this novel. One thing is certain. I will read more David Mitchell. ...more One of my favorite books - this was my third or fourth reading of Mitchell's wonderful work that is historical fiction, but also entirely transcendent of the genre. Set in Nagasaki, Japan on the artificial island of Dejima, the plot revolves around the titular Jacob de Zoet, a clerk with the Dutch East India Company, and Orito, the slightly scarred midwife whose beauty and intelligence captivate Jacob (and other characters besides). But the secondary and peripheral characters are all deeply and c One of my favorite books - this was my third or fourth reading of Mitchell's wonderful work that is historical fiction, but also entirely transcendent of the genre. Set in Nagasaki, Japan on the artificial island of Dejima, the plot revolves around the titular Jacob de Zoet, a clerk with the Dutch East India Company, and Orito, the slightly scarred midwife whose beauty and intelligence captivate Jacob (and other characters besides). But the secondary and peripheral characters are all deeply and carefully brought to life, as compelling in their own right as the two leads. Though it sets up to where you think it will be a slowly unfolding, cross cultural love story with the backdrop of the Dutch trading post in Japan, Mitchell is far too inventive for that. Suddenly you're ensconced in horrifying cults and the subjugation of women and a skirmish with a British warship and the views of cowardice and heroism that unite and divide various members of the cast of characters. What stands out for me is the importance of language in the novel: translation, from Japanese to Dutch and back again, is front and center, as is word choice between characters. The scene where Kobayashi subtly threatens Jacob via a translation lesson is astounding in its genius and so well crafted. And the importance and love of language the characters hold, Mitchell holds as well. I found myself truly enjoying his prose, his ear for how language sounds coming out of character's mouths and in narrative flow, and dog-earing pages all over the book with phrases, sentences, ideas I most appreciate. I became misty eyed at the end, as I always do, not because the ending is particularly sad, but because it is both deeply satisfying, and also because while the novel is pretty much perfect from my perspective, I grew to love everything about the read so much, I would always want more. ...more Giving this book three stars doesn't adequately represent its melange of 1-star and 5-star elements. The prose here walks a line between vivid and so purple that it's gushing persimmon juice over your lips... no, that's not quite a direct quote. The romance between two of the characters hangs on just a few meetings, one of which is an awful scene where they teach each other the words for \"dew\" in their respective languages. The entire middle section of the book rests on a fantastical plot elemen Giving this book three stars doesn't adequately represent its melange of 1-star and 5-star elements. The prose here walks a line between vivid and so purple that it's gushing persimmon juice over your lips... no, that's not quite a direct quote. The romance between two of the characters hangs on just a few meetings, one of which is an awful scene where they teach each other the words for \"dew\" in their respective languages. The entire middle section of the book rests on a fantastical plot element--an evil religious sect that kidnaps one of the main characters--that is never explained, in the sense that I expected some sort of author's note at the end. Why on earth does the author do so much research and make the Dutch-Japanese trading milieu so realistic, only to take this weird detour? I read a review that ascribed it to magical realism, but I didn't find it whimsical or particularly metaphorical, more crass or exploitative. I found the voices linguistically muddled. Someone warned me that I would be driven up the wall by the lower-class Dutch characters' Cockney accents: true. But consider also that when the Japanese interpreters are speaking Dutch, they are depicted speaking pidgin English, but when Jacob de Zoet is shown speaking Japanese, his dialogue is perfectly normal although his mastery of Japanese is much less. Then for a while we have a section that's told by a slave called Weh, which is in the first person for no apparent reason (since the third-person sections are plenty omniscient when it comes to Jacob's and Ogawa's private thoughts). And that leads us back to the endless pages of anecdote-telling by the various salty men of this story, which were sometimes related in so heavy an accent that I was tempted to nod off. This makes it sound as though I hated the book, but it had redeeming qualities. I found de Zoet's meandering path through life to make for interesting reading, and the parts of the book that aren't overwritten are well-written. The cross-cultural suspicions and friendships were more interesting to me than the attempt at romance, especially all the details of the ways the Japanese and Dutch bent, oh so slightly, to accommodate each other's culture. The atmosphere of the Dejima factory, in sounds, smells, and resentments, was palpable. People who enjoyed these aspects of the story would probably enjoy the Temeraire series by Naomi Novik, but since those books contain dragons and are thus tainted by association with swords-and-wands epics, I can't always persuade people to try them--your loss! ...more Exquisite. I am fascinated by language, translating and crossing cultures, and this book was very rich in examples of all these. Some of the most fascinating details were discussions between Jacob de Zoet and his interpreters as they worked to find the right word, often in Japanese. The Dutch and the Japanese were well matched \u2013 both demonstrating ruthlessness, and secretiveness. The Japanese knew that the Europeans did not arrive simply to trade, but to potentially colonize and own all. They k Exquisite. I am fascinated by language, translating and crossing cultures, and this book was very rich in examples of all these. Some of the most fascinating details were discussions between Jacob de Zoet and his interpreters as they worked to find the right word, often in Japanese. The Dutch and the Japanese were well matched \u2013 both demonstrating ruthlessness, and secretiveness. The Japanese knew that the Europeans did not arrive simply to trade, but to potentially colonize and own all. They know they can benefit from trade and construct a system of containing foreigners to protect their society, while profiting. The Dutch are terribly corrupt, and cheat both the Japanese and their employer, the Dutch East India Company. Jacob de Zoet, a highly moral and religiously devout man arrives on the man-made island, Dejima, in Nagasaki Harbor, Japan, determined to earn enough money to return to Holland and marry. His first act of deceit is the concealment of his psalter, a family heirloom that represents both his faith and his heritage. Discovery could lead to prison or execution. On the cusp of the 19th century, contact between men and women, and even more so in the case of contact between foreign men and Japanese women, is very controlled. The exchanges between Jacob and a young Japanese woman, Orito Aibagawa, entranced me. They were so delicately portrayed, and the yearning between the two was palpable. This attraction is carried throughout the novel, and forms the core of the story that propels the reader through the book. I love the Japanese cultural aesthetic. There are images in the book that represented this to me such as \u201cA jade-and-ash dragonfly lands on the edge of the board\u201d (p. 355). http://www.japan-talk.com/jt/new/9-pr... Mitchell reveals his familiarity with Irish history and culture (he is English but lives in Ireland) through the character Con Twomey. Twomey\u2019s dialogue is refreshing in the context of the contained northern European Dutch, and the controlled Japanese. On one occasion when a character is found badly beaten, he exclaims \u201cJesus, Mary and Oliver fecking Cromwell !\u201d. This historical novel provided me with insights into the ruthlessness of European trade, and the harsh lives of those who made these journeys. In many cases, the traders and particularly the low level workers suffered financial hardship and even ruin. The Japanese were at the end of the Samuri era, and entering a time of an unpredictable future. Surprisingly I was the only person of the 7 who showed up for our book club who loved this book. One or two \u201cliked\u201d it and one hated it. I, on the other hand, was so glad it was suggested as I\u2019d had it on my shelves for 4 years, picked up at the library store for $2. The length intimidated me, and I commonly complain here about overly long books. This book seemed to deserve its length.nIt surprised me that some members complained about the length and this was an insight for me. I realized that what are indispensable details for one reader may be chaff and represent poor editing for another. ...more David Mitchell's forte is the creation of fully formed worlds with numerous living, breathing characters, all written in beautiful, engaging prose. I didn't think the subject matter of this novel would interest me at all (a trading post? a naval battle? not for me) but I was happy to live in this world with these characters while I was reading it. The plot is intricate but not cumbersome; details have meaning. As in Cloud Atlas , there are recurring phrases and images that echo poetically througho David Mitchell's forte is the creation of fully formed worlds with numerous living, breathing characters, all written in beautiful, engaging prose. I didn't think the subject matter of this novel would interest me at all (a trading post? a naval battle? not for me) but I was happy to live in this world with these characters while I was reading it. The plot is intricate but not cumbersome; details have meaning. As in Cloud Atlas , there are recurring phrases and images that echo poetically throughout the work. Unlike \"Cloud Atlas\" and more like Black Swan Green , this is a straightforward tale -- even with about a third of it being more 'speculative' than 'historical.' Besides exploring different types of imprisonment, the story also focuses on the large repercussions that can arise from inaction and small actions. Though this theme is one of my favorites, it is spelled out a bit too much for my tastes -- a minor quibble. Some of the dialogue of the minor characters was a bit over the top -- another minor quibble as their speech was also readable and colorful. ...more There is an art to consuming a cup of coffee, particularly if it is the first of the day, when your sleep-fuzzed brain and sluggish muscles yearn for the rush of caffeine. Drink it too quickly, you will burn your tongue and throat and negate the pleasure of its rich warmth curling thickly through your blood. Drink it too slowly and it will cool to a flaccid, bitter memory of what coffee could be. Reading David Mitchell's The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet is like consuming that first, vital c There is an art to consuming a cup of coffee, particularly if it is the first of the day, when your sleep-fuzzed brain and sluggish muscles yearn for the rush of caffeine. Drink it too quickly, you will burn your tongue and throat and negate the pleasure of its rich warmth curling thickly through your blood. Drink it too slowly and it will cool to a flaccid, bitter memory of what coffee could be. Reading David Mitchell's The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet is like consuming that first, vital coffee of the day (I dedicate my very terrible simile to the Dutch, who created the modern stock market, based on the coffee trade in the century before the setting of this novel). If you rush headlong into the adventure, looking for the jolt of plot twists and intrigue, you will miss the nuances of tone and color that ripple through Mitchell's narrative as the points of view and settings change. If you go too slowly, you will lose the heat of the mystery and its complicated cast of characters. But by reading carefully and allowing Mitchell's pacing to steady the hand that is trembling for its narrative fix, you will emerge deeply satisfied. If you have read any professional reviews of this book, you have been pounded over the head by the reminder that Mitchell has written a straight-on historical fiction. As if it wasn't evident in Mitchell's previous works that he is a master of historical details of language, tone, setting and weaving fact through his fantasy. In this instance, he lands us in Nagasaki Harbor alongside Jacob de Zoet, a young Dutch clerk seeking his fortune as a member of the Dutch East Indies Company. As the 18th century comes to an end, Japan is still a nation of samurai and daimyo, determined to remain closed to foreigners. The Dutch outpost of Dejima, an artificial island in the port of Nagasaki, is the one remaining Western foothold in this land of mist and shadows. That is the initial setting of the story. Where Mitchell takes you I won't reveal- you've got to invest the time and energy in your own exploration. But read as carefully as the author has written. There is exquisite language that is a luxury to read and there are detours that frustrate until you realize you are happily lost and willing to stay the course because you trust the roads will all meet up again. There is a secret delight at the start of a certain chapter in the final pages of the books that will have you weak with wonder at the magic of words. I may return to give this a final, fifth star. I considered early in the novel that I was continuing on only because it was David Mitchell- there is some clunkiness that made me drag my heels and even set it aside for a couple of days. But as I continued to read, I realized I had to push past my tendency to devour instead of savour. In the end, it was good to the last drop. ...more I enjoyed this one; I definitely preferred it to Cloud Atlas , the only other Mitchell novel I've read. It's certainly more straightforward, structurally speaking; there is no jumping about in the timestream here. The Thousand Autumns of Jacon de Zoet is simply the story of the titular character's time spent in Japan, set at the turn of the 19th Century. Mitchell's writing is engaging. There is romance, scandal, action, adventure, betrayal, conspiracy, corruption, heroism and loss to be had here; I enjoyed this one; I definitely preferred it to Cloud Atlas , the only other Mitchell novel I've read. It's certainly more straightforward, structurally speaking; there is no jumping about in the timestream here. The Thousand Autumns of Jacon de Zoet is simply the story of the titular character's time spent in Japan, set at the turn of the 19th Century. Mitchell's writing is engaging. There is romance, scandal, action, adventure, betrayal, conspiracy, corruption, heroism and loss to be had here; much like real life, really.* Nothing here is simply black and white; shades of grey abound and, like me, you may find it slightly difficult to find somebody to root for if you insist on your protagonists being infallible or paragons of virtue. I found the story captivating and subtle, with a poetic nature, if that makes any sense at all... aaannnd there's the 'phone, so I'll leave it at that. Basically, I enjoyed it. * The content of your actual life may vary. ...more This is the fourth book of Mitchell's I've read, and from what I know of his books, I'd say they're all vastly different from each other in style, arrangement, content, and tone. But they all have one thing in common--Mitchell's great talent behind them. Some of them also have characters in common which is the main reason why I chose this book to read next. I wanted to visit again with a great character I first read about in The Bone Clocks, then in Slade House. But was I ever surprised to see h This is the fourth book of Mitchell's I've read, and from what I know of his books, I'd say they're all vastly different from each other in style, arrangement, content, and tone. But they all have one thing in common--Mitchell's great talent behind them. Some of them also have characters in common which is the main reason why I chose this book to read next. I wanted to visit again with a great character I first read about in The Bone Clocks, then in Slade House. But was I ever surprised to see how that character differed so much in this book from the other two. Though I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's start at the beginning. This book, which begins in 1799, is an epic tale of historical fiction with a dash of fantasy thrown in, which is given little page time, but is actually a driving force for the main storyline. I won't say what the fantasy element is or I'd spoil things. Just know to expect it in an otherwise realistic, fact-based story of clashing cultures of East and West and of the individuals within them. Jacob de Zoet, a red haired, green eyed clerk in his twenties, hopes to make enough money working for the Dutch East Indies Company so that his sweetheart's father back in Domburg, a Dutch province of Zeeland, will approve Jacob's marriage to Anna, the love of his life. As arranged by Anna's father, Jacob is to spend five years away, making his fortune, though Jacob wonders if his prospective father-in-law simply wants him out of the way to make room for better suitors. Whichever it is, Jacob finds himself in Dejima, a man made island in Japan, with a fan-shaped wall helping to keep it separate from Nagasaki, to discourage any interference with the Japanese by the Dutch traders, especially where Nagasaki's religious practices are concerned. Jacob goes to work there auditing the former head and underlings of the Dutch trading company which has been plagued by graft, causing tension and tempers to flare. Jacob is already an outsider amongst the Japanese and an outsider amongst the Dutch traders because of his hair color and job, not to mention his hard-nosed principles of right and wrong that border on self righteousness. But Jacob soon finds that his black and white way of seeing people and the world makes him even more of an outsider since such thinking doesn't seem to apply in Dejima. Friends and enemies never looked more alike and never tested him this way back home. Forced to bend or break, Jacob can't bring himself to do either until he meets by chance a young disfigured Japanese midwife, Miss Orito Aibagawa. He is immediately drawn to her to the point of drawing her on a fan to draw her out. But Fate and a good amount of earthly interference have plans for the two of them that Jacob never planned on. Reading this book was like watching a chess game built on treachery, courage, and cowardice, the chess pieces constantly changing color so that the players couldn't be sure which were their pieces or that of their opponent's. In other words, the characters in this book were highly complex individuals who changed over time due to stressors and circumstances, forming new alliances and dissolving old ones. I kept changing my mind about many of them, not quite sure if I revered or despised them, often settling on a mix of the two which made them that much more real. And while I can't say that the politics involved in trading between the Dutch and the Japanese during that time is something I would seek to read about, Mitchell made it fascinating and filled with tension. I never knew what would happen next and often dreaded reading the next chapter, fearing for those characters I couldn't completely love or hate. To give more details would be giving away too much, so I'll simply end this by saying that this is a great book for open-minded lovers of historical fiction who value writing that is both self-assured and subtle as shown in these brief samples that I'll leave you with: \"The music provokes a sharp longing the music soothes.\" \"When shaving, a man rereads his truest memoir.\" \"The notes of the luminous sonatas hang like grapes from the staves.\" ...more ( First: I won this book on a Goodreads Firstreads offer which is really cool. Thanks to Goodreads and Random House. ) I've been hooked on David Mitchell ever since he began: Who was blowing on the nape of my neck? Who indeed. And since then every book has been an event. What will he do this time? The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet is both historical and imagined. It's different of course from his other novels. One comes to expect and await that in Mitchell. But there is a common thread I think, ( First: I won this book on a Goodreads Firstreads offer which is really cool. Thanks to Goodreads and Random House. ) I've been hooked on David Mitchell ever since he began: Who was blowing on the nape of my neck? Who indeed. And since then every book has been an event. What will he do this time? The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet is both historical and imagined. It's different of course from his other novels. One comes to expect and await that in Mitchell. But there is a common thread I think, which might help explain Mitchell's genius and allure. He thinks and writes multi-dimensionally. That can be in transmigrating spirits or a musical motif. It can be in imagined and re-imagined vignettes. Or just an intelligently sensitive stutterer seeing the future in one stated word. Here, it's competing language and culture. Imagine you and I are speaking. The whole time I am thinking about what I am saying and how it sounds and a million other things which give my sentences meaning. You hear them through your own encyclopedic, existential filter. Mitchell is somehow able to explain all of that in a real time dialogue, without a misstep. It works. There are dozens of great characters in this book. The way Dickens might do it. So that each one is memorable, a lingering persona. Want to know about the English Captain Penhaligon? Try these two sentences: He takes out his shaving mirror from his escritore . Sweetmeat pies have fattened the fellow in the glass, brandy reddened his complexion, grief sunk his eyes and bad weather blasted away his thatch, but what restores a man's vigour -- and name -- better then success? What does the wonderfully erudite Dr. Marinus believe in? 'Oh, Descartes' methodology, Domenico Scarlatti's sonatas, the efficacy of Jesuit bark . . . So little, is actually worthy of either belief or disbelief. Better to strive to co-exist, than seek to disprove ...' And Jacob de Zoet! Prince Myshkin gone to Japan. He will last forever. You will care, and care deeply about Jacob. And there are drawings! Just a few. But they add much. They weren't attributed in my edition, so I'm anxious to know whose they are. They make us love Orito too. But, in truth, we would have loved her anyway. And, oh, I don't know where I'd rate this in the Mitchell 5. Just like the others. ...more **Hyperbole in all caps alert** AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH DAVID MITCHELL!!!!!!!!! HE'S A GENIUS! I JUST HAD TO HAVE THIS THE SECOND IT CAME OUT AND TALK ABOUT IT CONSTANTLY AND DAYDREAM OF BEING ABLE TO WRITE SOMETHING THIS AMAZING AND WRITE REVIEWS ABOUT IT IN ALL CAPS!!! (pregnant lady breath - hee hee hooooo) Being a huge nerd in a mostly non-nerd world, it's hard to contain your frothing anticipation for a book from your favorite author. How many times have you recieved an advance reading copy that **Hyperbole in all caps alert** AAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH DAVID MITCHELL!!!!!!!!! HE'S A GENIUS! I JUST HAD TO HAVE THIS THE SECOND IT CAME OUT AND TALK ABOUT IT CONSTANTLY AND DAYDREAM OF BEING ABLE TO WRITE SOMETHING THIS AMAZING AND WRITE REVIEWS ABOUT IT IN ALL CAPS!!! (pregnant lady breath - hee hee hooooo) Being a huge nerd in a mostly non-nerd world, it's hard to contain your frothing anticipation for a book from your favorite author. How many times have you recieved an advance reading copy that you would've clubbed a baby seal for, only to realize you don't really have anyone to share it with? You may have nerdier friends than I do, but for me, there's no way I could express my excitement to anyone I know without them knocking me off my bespectacled cloud by shoving me into some kind of metaphorical high school gym locker. Not like it's a huge deal - I read for myself, not for anyone else. But David Mitchell's books are so good, I just want to share. He is like finding out about a new band before they make it big and for some reason that is worth bragging about when you're 17. He is like nostalgia for Trapper Keepers and Gak and Starter jackets and other stupid 90s stuff that really wasn't that cool but is fucking rad to talk about with other people your age. So yes, this is his new book and as tons of reviewers have pointed out, it's a slight departure. At no point does your mind explode from Mitchell pulling off some bonkers high concept trapeezery. It's a fairly standard historical novel about a time and place that most Americans probably don't know too much about. There's even (gasp!) a romance. But it works. You might read a short summary of the plot somewhere and think \"that sounds really boring\", but it isn't. I won't go into plot details because that's boring, but here are a few notes. OMG THIRD PERSON!!! Yes, Mitchell wrote this in third person. Yes, he is a master of first-person as evidenced by his other novels. Every reviewer has felt the need to point this out. Mitchell used some old fashioned italicizing to show the thoughts of characters, and sure, it is awkward in certain areas but really, I can't imagine this working in first person. In fact, the one short chapter that was in first person seemed super out of place. I thought the switching of perspectives from Jacob to the Japanese to the English was worked out well enough, and actually was needed to clearly show the contrasting schemes and difficulties in communication between the countries. I partcularly enjoyed the passages of the various translators struggling over certain words, and sometimes inventing new ones because no such word existed in the language. What's with the quote interruptions? There were a lot of times when Mitchell would break up a quote with seemingly unrelated hiakus or characteristics of the seeting. I'm not sure I quite understood the purpose of this, and it was used a lot, so I'm sure there was one. Someone help me out here. In some parts, it was definitely distracting. Do you believe in magic? The best character was the supernatural and spoooooky Enomoto, responsible for the fantastic middle section of the book that reminded me of a more mysterious The Handmaid's Tale . A mountainous cult keeps women around only to crank out babies in order to achieve immortality. Bananas! Pirates of the Caribbean Pretty much the last third of the book. Awesome. Prose-poem on page 441 Makes this worth reading by itself. Overall, the only reason this book doesn't get 5 stars is because Cloud Atlas was still better and I don't like love stories that are based on one character falling head-over-heels crazy mad in love with the other despite knowing almost nothing about them. I'm sure it happens, but I wasn't buying it here. Read it! Go buy it and read it now! And then talk to me about it so I can nerd out with you. ...more Have you ever heard the wolf cry to the blue corn moon? Or asked the grinning bobcat why he grinned? Can you sing with all the voices of the mountains? Can you paint with all the colours of the wind? Jacob de Zoet's love for a Japanese midwife has him asking all the questions \"native\" girls usually leave in the minds of sensitive liberal colonialists. And we aren't ever allowed to forget quite how \"right on\" de Zoet is. The author stages a completely unprovoked and illogical attack that hospital Have you ever heard the wolf cry to the blue corn moon? Or asked the grinning bobcat why he grinned? Can you sing with all the voices of the mountains? Can you paint with all the colours of the wind? Jacob de Zoet's love for a Japanese midwife has him asking all the questions \"native\" girls usually leave in the minds of sensitive liberal colonialists. And we aren't ever allowed to forget quite how \"right on\" de Zoet is. The author stages a completely unprovoked and illogical attack that hospitalises a handsome slave. This is just so that de Zoet can demonstrate his anti-slavery credentials. Then there's some boring maths shit about signing a ledger, just so that we know that he's honest. In fact, de Zoet's such a modern and honest chap that he's not even very good at the one thing they could do well in those crazy olden days: be secretly in love with someone. He's completely shit at this. Next: Japan's Pocahontas Midwife suddenly finds herself in Japan's answer to Margaret Atwood's \"The Handmaid's Tale\". Which is obviously completely nuts. Only it then becomes even more sinister and even more nuts. It's hard not to laugh, but also really hard not to keep reading. Remember that old tree / old woman combo thing that Pocahontas sang with in the Disney film? My little sister had the Happy Meal toy of that thing. Anyway, here she is: an old herbalist. She happens to live down the mountain from the bizarre Bond-villain lair where Pocahontas Midwife is living her Atwoodian nightmare. This old woman ensures a rescue is on the cards... I can't tell you what happens, but it is very exciting. When that's over, it feels like no one knows where we are in the plot or what is supposed to happen next. For something to do, de Zoet finally gets laid and then one of the Dutchies tells us a really long story about his boring life. That's coming to an end and it looks like there'll be another embarrassing silence, but then the Brits arrive! The bad news is that they've brought a ship full of characters and thus lots more backstories. Worse, the arrival of one of the British means that a Dutch, whose backstory we have yet to hear, is obliged to share. It's weird because we have a plot at this point ... something is happening other than characters talking about their lives ... yet all we get is more blah, blah, blah and then I was beaten by an officer on the poop deck, and then blah, blah, blah. The good thing is that the Japanese and the Dutch can unite against the British, and this new respect and friendship means that they can take on Japan's Bond villain and his weird Atwoodian mountain nightmare. The end. Ogawa was from Kochi! Woop! ...more I believe that David Mitchell may be, of all the contemporary authors I've read, one of the most versatile. Although I could simply be mistakenly (again) be viewing his work as versatile. I believe there are meant to be some more of his meta-linguistic features in this book. Although I didn't stop any familiar characters. Reading Black Swan Green and Ghostwritten may help me to find those little hidden characters however. The title of this book - which I think must be classed as a kind of zany hi I believe that David Mitchell may be, of all the contemporary authors I've read, one of the most versatile. Although I could simply be mistakenly (again) be viewing his work as versatile. I believe there are meant to be some more of his meta-linguistic features in this book. Although I didn't stop any familiar characters. Reading Black Swan Green and Ghostwritten may help me to find those little hidden characters however. The title of this book - which I think must be classed as a kind of zany historical fiction with some slight fantasy elements (very, very minor, as in only hinted at to do with ki or life force energy) - has to do with the fact that Japan is also known as The Land of a Thousand Autumns, or something like that.* The storyline follows Jacob de Zoet, a Dutch clerk working for the Dutch East Indies Trading Company in Nagasaki. The story starts off in a complacent manner (excluding the detailed childbirth) and in fact I was not gripped by the beginning. It took around a hundred pages for me to emotionally delve into the story and go beyond the surface of the beautiful writing. The story is a story about de Zoet as a clerk and his company dealings as well as a love story and a story about a demoniacal and arcane cult. In this sense the story is about humanity. It is a story about how we as people respond to power and authority. How we control our lusts and our desires. It is a story that questions what love is. Jacob claims that he loves Orito but does he really? Do his actions reveal this? Jacob may be honourable (view spoiler) [refusing to accept bribery for promotion and he ultimately helps free Orito (hide spoiler) ] but does he act when he needs to. For me this book captured several ideas that are present in Mitchell's book Cloud Atlas , particularly those thoughts about mankind's will to domineer life. I particularly liked the sequence when they were discussing slavery and the will of mankind. Race remains one of the great myths created by 'science' and humanity as part of our means of creating barriers of control. People like having power and control. This is the third of David Mitchell's books I have read. It is a strong historical fiction novel and definitely worth reading. Overall it has an interesting story, some fascinating and deep themes and it's well written too. ...more", "Title": "The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet"},
