{"Comments": "It's not that I don't like any historical fiction, I just think that it's a really hard thing to do right, without simplifying everything. Nah, I really just hate historical fiction. And I think that <+++>March</+++> is a perfect example of historical fiction gone wrong. 1. I hate it in historical fiction when... the author seems to cling to one or two details in history and repeat them over and over again. In this book, the author seems intent on measuring everything in rods, no matter how short or long t It's not that I don't like any historical fiction, I just think that it's a really hard thing to do right, without simplifying everything. Nah, I really just hate historical fiction. And I think that <+++>March</+++> is a perfect example of historical fiction gone wrong. 1. I hate it in historical fiction when... the author seems to cling to one or two details in history and repeat them over and over again. In this book, the author seems intent on measuring everything in rods, no matter how short or long the distance, no matter how unimportant it is to the rest of the story - \"the field was six rods away,<---M>\" \"he was one rod tall</---M>,\" \"I love rods.\" She does the same thing with the word score - three score, four score, five score... there are never ten or fifty or ninety of anything. Perhaps there was never ten, fifty, or ninety of anything in the 1860s? I suppose I'm not a historian... 2. I hate it in historical fiction when... huge events, such as the Civil War, are simplified down to the most basic historical and moral levels. Sure, I understand that an entire war is too complex to fully cover in a three hundred page novel, but you can still do better than, \"War is bad! But slavery is also bad! So is a war to get rid of slavery good?\" 3. I hate it in historical fiction when... the main character seems to be best friends with every famous person of the time period. In this book, the main character hangs with Waldo Emerson, Henry Thoreau (notice she drops the \"Ralph\" and \"David\" parts because, you know, they're like close friends), Nathaniel Hawthorne, and John Brown. As if, because I live in the 2000s, I am best buds with Dick Cheney, Britney Spears, and Bill Gates.<---F> Hi, Brit! Luv Ya!!! </---F>...more I wanted desperately to like this book! And I sort of did! \"Little Women\" is one of my wife's favs, and I'm a sucker for Civil War novels (all five billion of 'em). But this book, though elegantly written, struck me as too schmaltzy and too overly preachy to enjoy. It was also a wee bit predictable as a Civ War novel. Brooks made sure to hit the Twelve Points of the True CW Novel: (1) interracial romance, (2) old urbane southern woman with power, (3) the meat and stench of the field hospital, (4 I wanted desperately to like this book! And I sort of did! \"Little Women\" is one of my wife's favs, and I'm a sucker for Civil War novels (all five billion of 'em). But this book, though elegantly written, struck me as too schmaltzy and too overly preachy to enjoy. It was also a wee bit predictable as a Civ War novel. Brooks made sure to hit the Twelve Points of the True CW Novel: (1) interracial romance, (2) old urbane southern woman with power, (3) the meat and stench of the field hospital, (4) inverted moral systems, (5) corrupt or failed preachers, (6) the moral clarity of the narrator compared to those other dirty racists with bad teeth, (7) \"powder and ball\", (8) a well-stocked plantation library, (9) gorgeous, educated slave women who turn out to be of mixed blood, (10) the senseless suffering of women and children at the home front, (11) hot liberal indignation somewhere in New England, and (12) southern families torn apart by Visigothic Union soldiers who smash grand pianos. Did I miss anything? Well neither did Brooks. Nevertheless, \"March\" is a wonderful idea, and as an exciting alter-universe for \"Little Women,\" it probably has no peer. ...more Ok, to be honest - I couldn't finish it! I've completely lost faith in the Pulitzer Prize for fiction. It's becoming like a Grammy award for pop music (see Mariah Carey and Celine Dion). This book is pretentious and short-sighted from page one. Come on, a vegetarian, Unitarian, abolitionist, transcendentalist, book-lover from the North is just one HUGE cliche that, frankly, probably did not exist during the Civil War. I know that Louisa May Alcott's parents (as that is the subject of this book) Ok, to be honest - I couldn't finish it! I've completely lost faith in the Pulitzer Prize for fiction. It's becoming like a Grammy award for pop music (see Mariah Carey and Celine Dion). This book is pretentious and short-sighted from page one. Come on, a vegetarian, Unitarian, abolitionist, transcendentalist, book-lover from the North is just one HUGE cliche that, frankly, probably did not exist during the Civil War. I know that Louisa May Alcott's parents (as that is the subject of this book) were revolutionary for their time (in fact, Bronson Alcott was indeed a vegetarian and attempted a community based farm named \"Utopia-something-or-other\"), but they weren't a tired-out, modern day example of tolerance. To reinforce my point, here is a quote from the book: \"You must know that we in the South suffer from a certain malnourishment of the mind: we value the art of conversation over literary pursuits, so that when we gather together it is all for gallantries and pleasure parties . . . I envy your bustling Northern cities, where men of genius are thrown together thick as bees, and the honey of intellectual accomplishment is produced.\" UUUUgggh. One more person, stereotyping the South. Just what we need in this modern day. ...more MARCH is the story of a once wealthy man with strong abolitionist convictions who leaves his wife and children behind to minister to union troops hoping to free and educate slaves. Set during the Civil War, MARCH is filled with slavery's abominable cruelties that test a man's faith in humanity and unmask shortcomings that haunt him during a life threatening illness. As the father in Alcott's Little Women this 2006 Pultizer Prize winner depicts Mr. March's tumultuous life during wartime with only b MARCH is the story of a once wealthy man with strong abolitionist convictions who leaves his wife and children behind to minister to union troops hoping to free and educate slaves. Set during the Civil War, MARCH is filled with slavery's abominable cruelties that test a man's faith in humanity and unmask shortcomings that haunt him during a life threatening illness. As the father in Alcott's Little Women this 2006 Pultizer Prize winner depicts Mr. March's tumultuous life during wartime with only bits of connection to his family, but is a great read nonetheless. ...more I was all ready to give March by <---A>Geraldine Brooks</---A> three stars until I got to this passage: \"I am not alone in this. I only let him do to me what men have ever done to women: march off to empty glory and hollow acclaim and leave us behind to pick up the pieces. The broken cities, the burned barns, the innocent injured beasts, the ruined bodies of the boys we bore and the men we lay with. The waste of it. I sit here, and I look at him, and it is as if a hundred women sit beside me: the revolutionary I was all ready to give March by Geraldine Brooks three stars until I got to this passage: \"I am not alone in this. I only let him do to me what men have ever done to women: march off to empty glory and hollow acclaim and leave us behind to pick up the pieces. The broken cities, the burned barns, the innocent injured beasts, the ruined bodies of the boys we bore and the men we lay with. The waste of it. I sit here, and I look at him, and it is as if a hundred women sit beside me: the revolutionary farm wife, the English peasant woman, the Spartan mother-'Come back with your shield or on it,' she cried, because that was what she was expected to cry. And then she leaned across the broken body of her son and the words turned to dust in her throat.\" If you were ever a little girl in America, chances are you have read Louisa May Alcott's Little Women . You probably grew up with Meg, Jo, Beth and Amy. You experienced their life living with their mother while their father was off serving the Union Army in the Civil War. You felt their excitement whenever <---C>Marmee</---C> would read them a letter from him. You know how Marmee was called away to help her beloved husband recover from some unnamed illness in an army hospital. What you never got was a real glimpse of the adult lives that circled around the March girls. In fact, you never even learn their parents' first names. Geraldine Brooks must have had the same fascination with Little Women that so many of us former little girls did. She takes that fascination and fleshes out the story of Mr. and Mrs. March. The story opens with March (never a first name) writing a letter home to Marmee. (We find that Marmee is was everyone called her, not just the girls.) As he finishes his writing, the story takes us to the uncensored version of his past and what is happening to him at the moment. It's not all as he portrays in his letters. He's kind of interesting at first, but he gets kind of dull pretty quickly. The guy is just too emotional and flowery. What is interesting is his recollections of Marmee. She is by far a much more interesting character and the story definitely takes off once she takes over the narration in the second part of the book, when she comes to the hospital to nurse her husband back to health. Up until that point, I was thinking that this book was definitely a 3. I was kind of wondering what the competition was for the Pulitzer that year. I do have to give Brooks credit for trying to add a new, adult dimension to a nationally loved work of children's literature. I think she did a good job of creating something fresh while honoring the classic. ...more This is one of the most Pulizer-worthy novels I've read in a long while. The novel tells the previously untold story of the absent father in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women . In Little Women , the reader only gets to know Peter March through his letters sent home to his family from the Civil War. Of course, in the interest of sparing his family the details of war, his letters are more cheerful than his reality. Geraldine Brooks uses the novel March to tell of Mr. March's early life as a traveling This is one of the most Pulizer-worthy novels I've read in a long while. The novel tells the previously untold story of the absent father in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women . In Little Women , the reader only gets to know Peter March through his letters sent home to his family from the Civil War. Of course, in the interest of sparing his family the details of war, his letters are more cheerful than his reality. Geraldine Brooks uses the novel March to tell of Mr. March's early life as a traveling salesman, of his first kiss with someone other than his future wife, of the meeting of his wife, of his connections to Emerson and Thoreau, of his strong abolitionist sentiments, of the war that changed him both physically and mentally, and of misunderstandings and wrongs that were never made right in his life. Brooks draws heavily from the journals of Alcott's own father, Bronson Alcott, in order to flesh out the character of Mr. March. Since the \"little women\" in Alcott's novels were based on the members of her own family, it makes sense that Mr. March would be based on her father and that the March family would be acquainted with the same people they were. The Alcotts were, after all, contemporaries and acquaintances of many of the transcendentalist thinkers and writers of the time such as Emerson and Thoreau. This is definitely the best prequel written by a different author that I've ever read. I remember being completely disappointed trying to read sequels or prequels by different authors for books such as Gone With the Wind . The author's journalistic background definitely helped her to give attention to the proper details needed to research such a book. I initially did not recognize the name of the author as being the author of Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women , a book that I loved so much that I ... er ... bought it from the library pretending that I'd lost it (in the days before amazon.com made any book accessible for purchase). Nine Parts of Desire is a work of non-fiction that she wrote as a journalist. So I'm thrilled to see that she has such a beautiful piece of fiction out there as well. Halfway through the book, I found myself saying to myself, \"wow, this is a good book\" and hoping to read something else by her soon. Years of Wonder tells the story of the bubonic plague in a small English town and People of the Book is freshly out in hardback. Frankly, though, what I'm feeling the need to re-read immediately is Little Women . I absolutely adored that book as a child. I always saw myself as Jo because I loved to write. And I always hated that the character with my name (Amy) was such a spoiled brat. ...more Bear with me. I have a lot of thoughts. I've thought about reading this book off and on for years, since it a) won the Pulitzer, and b) is about Mr. March, the mostly absent father in LITTLE WOMEN, one of my favorite books. Two good recommendations, right? But I've never really been all that curious about Mr. March, and I heard some mixed reviews from friends, so I put it aside. Enter my new book club, and this is the first book we're reading. And so I'm working really hard on finding some ways t Bear with me. I have a lot of thoughts. I've thought about reading this book off and on for years, since it a) won the Pulitzer, and b) is about Mr. March, the mostly absent father in LITTLE WOMEN, one of my favorite books. Two good recommendations, right? But I've never really been all that curious about Mr. March, and I heard some mixed reviews from friends, so I put it aside. Enter my new book club, and this is the first book we're reading. And so I'm working really hard on finding some ways to talk about the book tonight at our first meeting, without offending anyone or hurting the feelings of the woman who chose it. For all I know, it's her all-time favorite book. So, anyway! I will share my thoughts here, with you all. And they are, as follows: What, what, WHAT was Geraldine Brooks thinking? Okay, okay, I will try to get my thoughts in order. There may be spoilers, just you know, consider yourself warned. Basically, this is not a sequel or prequel to LITTLE WOMEN, it is mostly a book about the Civil War. Fine. Good. But historical fiction, at least that which covers topics that have been covered a lot before, needs a hook. Why read this book, and not some other book about that era, right? So the hook here is the connection to LITTLE WOMEN, which is . . . well, crap. Not just because I have never, NEVER wanted to know about the sex lives of Jo and Meg's parents (MINE EYES HATH BEEN SOILED), but because it also contradicts their characters in the book. You thought that Mr. March, (based on Alcott's own father, a genius, scholar, and philosopher), went to war with the full approval of his family, where he brought strength and comfort to those around him? Nope. He was so blunderingly naive that he was a danger to himself and others the entire time. I lost count of the people who died because he was an idiot. And as for Marmee, that calm wise presence . . . just a bitter, foul-mouthed shrew, really. She reins it in here and there, under the loving direction of her husband, but mostly she is verbally and occasionally physically abusive. Oh. Right. I must have missed that in the original. Such additions, to make the characters more rounded, would have been forgivable if there had been any hints at all of such things in Alcott's books, and if they hadn't made both Mr. March and Marmee seem so completely unlikeable. Not just flawed, human characters, but outright unlikeable. March seems like a fool, and a martyr, trying to get himself killed to make up for his many, awful mistakes. Marmee is such a harridan that I cannot fathom anyone sympathizing with her, let alone loving her. Ever. In one of the first scenes with Marmee it's revealed that she is a conductor on the Underground Railroad. Neat, right? But we find this out because she berates everyone at a dinner party who isn't helping slaves escape. Um, doesn't that actually make her a liability to them? If everyone in Concord knows she's hiding people in her cellar, and they don't approve, aren't they worried that someone will tell the slave-catchers? I't's just bizarre. Had they not been characters I \"knew\" from another book, this would have been hard enough to read, since reading unlikeable POV characters is not my favorite thing, but since March and Marmee are beloved figures from my childhood, it started to make me think that Brooks had some vindictive reason for doing this. She seemed determined, especially with the final scene, to take a beloved childhood memory for many readers, and just, well, piss all over it. The final scene! Seriously. Without going into too much spoilage, she essentially recreates an iconic scene from LITTLE WOMEN, only now we (supposedly) know what was \"really going on,\" which makes the scene absolutely horrible. Like, unbearably bitter and without hope of redemption. What makes this even worse (as if that were possible) is that not only is the prose quite lovely, but Brooks passes over a great hook, a perfect idea for a Civil War era novel, that didn't have to involve the destruction of someone else's characters. The best section of the book involves March spending time on a leased plantation, something that I had no idea was a \"thing.\" As the war progressed, plantations that had been occupied by the north were leased to northerners, and the liberated slaves were paid to stay on and work the cotton for the Union Army. This produced rather mixed results, of course, and with the Secession army sabotaging them along the way. Now that, right there, would have made an infinitely better book! What a waste! ...more I now know, having perused Geraldine Brooks' website, that March won the 2006 Pulitzer prize for fiction. I had not noticed that it had received such acclaim when I pulled it from the shelf at our modest library, but now, having finished the last page, I am not surprised it did. It is good. Brooks' is an authentic voice. Her extensive reading of primary sources, particularly the writings of Bronson Alcott, that was the inspiration for L.M. Alcott's father figure in Little Women, gives Brooks a h I now know, having perused Geraldine Brooks' website, that March won the 2006 Pulitzer prize for fiction. I had not noticed that it had received such acclaim when I pulled it from the shelf at our modest library, but now, having finished the last page, I am not surprised it did. It is good. Brooks' is an authentic voice. Her extensive reading of primary sources, particularly the writings of Bronson Alcott, that was the inspiration for L.M. Alcott's father figure in Little Women, gives Brooks a handle on the cadences of 19th century prose. Combined with her literary skill, Brooks brings to her narrative journalistic details, a result of her experience as a correspondent in war-torn countries. In the novel, Brooks gives thoughtful consideration to a quandry common to many: how do we come to terms with the discrepency between our ideals and the realities of life? Mr. March is a pacifist, and enlists as a chaplain, seeking to live out his beliefs. Later, he later sees people in his care killed, and killed because of his own cowardice or in the effort to save him. It is a difficult cross to bear. Grace, the educated daughter of a plantation owner and his slave, offers this perspective to Mr. March as he flagellates himself for the horrors he believe he has caused: \"'You are not God. You do not determine the outcome. The outcome is not the point.' \"'The what, pray, is the point?' His voice was a dry, soft rattle, like a breeze through a bough of dead leaves. \"'The point is the effort. That you, believing what you believed--what you sincerely believed, including the commandment 'thou shalt not kill'--acted upon it. To believe, to act, and to have events confound you--I grant you, that is hard to bear. But to believe, and not to act, or to act in a way that every fiber of your soul held was wrong--how can you not see? That is what would have been reprehensible.'\" (258) Later, Grace continues: I simply ask you to see that there is only one thing to do when we fall, and that is to get up, and go on with the life that is set in front of us, and try to do the good of which our hands are capable for the people who come in our way. (268) This embodiment of grace is probably the greatest reason I found to love March, and to appreciate it for more than the historical fiction it is in genre. Brooks is right, and she expresses the truth eloquently; we waste precious time beating ourselves up over past failures. The only hope is to forgive, ourselves, then others, moving forward with conviction and compassion. Related Links: \"March to the Front,\" an article about Brooks' journey to writing March, by Catherine Keenan of the Sydney Morning Herald \"The Writing Life,\" Geraldine Brooks' reflections on her craft ...more Disappointing. I think I am done with classics spin-offs. The writing was fabulous, but I got fed up with inconsistencies in the characters and disappointments I felt about their portrayed actions. Halfway through I thought about giving up and should have. I hoped there would be redemption at the end and there really wasn't, at least not enough for me. There were two things that bothered me the most. 1)Mr. March, a poor farm boy, \"loves\" Marmee enough to teach her to control her temper, yet he c Disappointing. I think I am done with classics spin-offs. The writing was fabulous, but I got fed up with inconsistencies in the characters and disappointments I felt about their portrayed actions. Halfway through I thought about giving up and should have. I hoped there would be redemption at the end and there really wasn't, at least not enough for me. There were two things that bothered me the most. 1)Mr. March, a poor farm boy, \"loves\" Marmee enough to teach her to control her temper, yet he can't seem to control his own sexual urges. Whatever. Especially that he risked her good standing by seducing her and then rushing to her father for a quick marriage, thinking he was saving her. Blah. What if her father had refused to let Mr. March even marry her? Mr. March's pride was disturbing. Was Brooks' message that even good, kind people have major faults? 2)The nausiating difference in what Marmee thought about Mr. March going to war and what Mr. March thought she was thinking. I'm sure Brooks was trying to make the Little Women charachters more realistic, but the division and lack of true communication between Marmee and Mr. March really bothered me. I don't even feel like Mr. March repents of his pride, so what was the point of the story? That war is awful? That this life is full of suffering? That men are bad? I have no idea. I don't recommend this book. I did learn that if I don't feel like finishing a book, I probably have the feeling for a good reason and should listen to myself. ...more Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 2006. It's a remarkable work of fiction deserving of all the acclaim it receives. Many reviewers and readers like to talk of it's connection with Alcott's Little Women, and while there is a connection, it doesn't define what this novel is about at all. This book stands proudly on it's own merit without any help from it's famous connection. Other than the name and a few references to the little women at home, it has virtually no resemblance to Alcott's Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 2006. It's a remarkable work of fiction deserving of all the acclaim it receives. Many reviewers and readers like to talk of it's connection with Alcott's Little Women, and while there is a connection, it doesn't define what this novel is about at all. This book stands proudly on it's own merit without any help from it's famous connection. Other than the name and a few references to the little women at home, it has virtually no resemblance to Alcott's work, although Mrs. March is included throughout. This story is about Mr. March, the husband and father of the famous family, and his pursuit of self perfection that leads him to join the Union army as a chaplain and help contribute to the cause of freeing the slaves. This was a cause dear to the March family as they had used their home as a stopover on the underground railroad. Mr. March's experiences during his year of service change his views from a glorified cause to the harsh reality that one person, do what they may, can never do enough to stop the tragic and inhumane treatment of an entire race of people. The events of the year and his personal failings along the way leave him broken and ashamed with little hope of recovery. I would recommend this book to anyone, it truly is a modern classic. ...more You read a book and its complexities will devour you and leave you unable to describe the feeling. There is not much I can say here. Complex characters, complex story, a complex timeframe, embodied within graceful prose. Enough narrative distance to create objectivity. Gut-wrenching. Soul-searching. There is March, the main character, an abolitionist, who leaves his family to join the American Civil War as a chaplain. Then again, March is but a speck in the book, as there is an intricate plot wh You read a book and its complexities will devour you and leave you unable to describe the feeling. There is not much I can say here. Complex characters, complex story, a complex timeframe, embodied within graceful prose. Enough narrative distance to create objectivity. Gut-wrenching. Soul-searching. There is March, the main character, an abolitionist, who leaves his family to join the American Civil War as a chaplain. Then again, March is but a speck in the book, as there is an intricate plot which surrounds him. Through March, the brutal side of war is shown. Still, there is love and love letters to add to the beauty of the plot. There are the horrors of slavery mentioned, horrific scenes that made my insides crawl. Another stamp on history, this book (which uses fact as a scaffold) for a race that has endured unspeakable crimes. All this, told with the charm of historical language and modeled after the classic, Little Women . Since the classic was about how a year lived at the \"edge of war\" changed the characters of those little women, Brooks wanted to give the father a voice he never had. How was he changed? What did he see? How did his view of the human race get altered? The result is stunning. Daylight. Still, at last. Underneath me, leaves. Above, a blur of branches. My eyes focused on a single leaf, turned before its time. Scarlet and gold. The color throbbed against a sky of brilliant blue. All that beauty. That immensity. And it will exist, even when I am not here to look at it. Marmee will see it, still. And my little women. That, I suppose, is the meaning of grace. Grace. ...more The problem with March is that it's tied in to a beloved children's story. While this might have been a terrific marketing ploy, (fan fiction often is, since it offers immediate context and recognition,) it created two very different stories. The first: a reworking of one absent and one present (and much loved) character in a famous work of fiction. The second: a story of a pacifist who went to war in one of the bloodiest and most tragic conflicts in our nation's history. The first seems a recip The problem with March is that it's tied in to a beloved children's story. While this might have been a terrific marketing ploy, (fan fiction often is, since it offers immediate context and recognition,) it created two very different stories. The first: a reworking of one absent and one present (and much loved) character in a famous work of fiction. The second: a story of a pacifist who went to war in one of the bloodiest and most tragic conflicts in our nation's history. The first seems a recipe to designed to anger loyal fans of the original. The second is the more compelling story, and probably more accessible to those who are unfamiliar with L.M. Alcott's novels. It's probably a good thing I'll never get around to reading Little Women again, because March seems like it was written to slaughter a few babies, and a reread would possibly be spoiled by my constant justifications of my irritations with this Pulitzer Prize winning novel*. In the afterword, the author admits that, though she having loved LW as a child, her mother once told her: \u201cNobody in real life is such a goody-goody as that Marmee.\u201d It seems Brooks took that statement to heart, and set about to write a story that painted Marmee as a petty, jealous, shrewish, risk-taking idealogue \u2013 a woman without restraint of either temperament or libido. Mr. March expects his wife to be the picture of decorum in every situation, and mentions her piques of temper with disparaging attitude, in contrast with the loving, gentle picture painted of him as devoted father and husband, in Little Women. Regarding Marmee as a young woman: \u201cStanding one on either side, they half patted, half held her, as one would both soothe and restrain a lunging, growling dog.\u201d \u201cThe intemperance of her attack left me breathless. Angry women generally cannot be said to show to advantage, and to see that lovely face so distorted by such a scowl as it now wore was immensely shocking to me. Who could have imagined this gently bred young woman to be so entirely bereft of the powers of self-government? I had never seen such an outburst, not even from a market wife.\u201d \u201cAt such times I thought I would rather live in the midst of a crashing thunderhead than with this Fury of a wife.\u201d \u201c'It is you,' I said, trying to keep my voice even, though my pulse beat in my head. 'It is you who degrade yourself, when you forgo self-mastery.'\u201d In fact he seems quite disdainful of her throughout much of the story, and yet he is incapable of keeping little mr. march in his pants. (Brooks also seems to think she is quite clever with her allusions to masturbation.) Later, when the point of view switches to Marmee's, we see more character assassination, and a few scenes that don't even correlate with how Brooks has changed her. Are we to believe that this tireless, passionate and outspoken abolitionist woman, a stop on the Underground Railroad, is going to instantly devolve into racist slurs, when she (uncharacteristically for LW ) jumps to the conclusion that her husband is an adulterer? I don't buy either scenario. If the character of Marmee is as Alcott portrays, I don't believe for a moment, that she would assume her husband is an adulterer on such a triviality. And if the character is as Brooks portrays (aside from her temper and her sexual freedom,) I don't find it believable that Marmee would express her thoughts in a racist fashion. This character assassination doesn't seem to contribute anything useful to the story in any case, and instead comes across as a personal agenda to take Marmee down a peg or ten. The comment in the afterword supports this observation. Because of the above objections, this part of the story fails on every level for me. The character of Mr. March is built, naturally, on the story of Bronson Alcott, Louisa May's father. Since Little Women was loosely autobiographical, it seems appropriate to do such with March. There was a great deal of experimental thinking and ideology during these years, in New England, and literature bears out the ideals of the time, with thinkers such as Thoreau, Emerson, Dickinson, Alcott, William Elery Channing, and others, developing the ideas and philosophies of transcendentalism, and setting the stage for the emergence of uniquely American faiths such as the Unity Church and Religious Science. The same region and intellectual climate also produced the burgeoning religiosity in the nearby area that came to be known as the \u201cburned-over district,\u201d and the emergence of its insular and restrictive religious ideals. (This book does not address this last theme, but it's historically relevant.) Alcott and his contemporaries were ideologically progressive, pioneering new ideas regarding education, communal living, and veganism, as well as exploring other cultural ideals. Alcott himself seemed to be somewhat incapable of providing well for his family, so Brooks uses L.M. Alcott's backstory that Mr. March once made a fortune, then lost it. Unlike Alcott, Mr. March \u2013 a strict pacifist, in both stories, goes to war as a chaplain. This is where the story improves, the irony being that it would be possible to utterly separate the narrative from the LW storyline. Mr. March is an idealist, quite na\u00efve and more than a little self-righteous. He joins the war effort without really understanding the political or moral climate \u2013 which is perhaps more realistic in its portrayal than not. As I read these parts of the book, I thought that here was potentially the real meat of the story \u2013 the picture of close range war, the destruction of lives, families, home, property. Personal tragedy, horror and degradation. It certainly is rich with commentary on slavery and its obvious and less obvious evils (although Brooks makes quite a lot of use of slavery/civil war cliches to make her point: the beautiful mixed-blood house slave/interracial romance, the powerful old genteel southern woman, Reb rapists, sawing off limbs in a field hospital, the stench of blood and bowel, etc,) but I find that as I sit down to write this review, I realize the novel falls victim to political correctness; for every evil Southern Rebel, you must show an equally despicable Northern Unionist. For every ignorant/uneducated slave, you must write an intelligent/educated one. In one sentence she writes with flagrant disregard for cultural behavior in the interaction between Black and White, and in the next, she stops to point out how few Northerners were actually motivated by abolitionist ideals. It detracts from the argument against slavery, but unfortunately falls short of contributing any meaningful discourse of the disunion present on both sides of the Mason-Dixon Line. Maybe it's unfair to make something of that, because modern fiction set in 19th century America frequently raises this exact dichotomy. America really was two very different countries, and in many ways it still is. Maybe it's picking nits to point out the way Brooks handles this conceit, after all her prose is beautiful, drawing one along in the story, in spite of itself. Except that it feels like she had a checklist of \u201cfair\u201d that she drew up before she could write this novel. Brilliantly done, however, are the final two chapters, when we are returned to Mr. March's point of view. Brooks hands over an eloquent portrayal of Soldier's Heart and survivor guilt. It's a bit of a shame that these chapters were not expanded just a little. I would not have read this book, had it not been for it being included on an assigned summer reading list for matriculating Stanford University students (my nephew is leaving for Stanford in the fall! *little brag*) and its inclusion grabbed my eye as being odd. After a little discussion with him, my curiosity got the better of me, and I decided to read it. After reading, I admit I'm still a little baffled as to its selection. *I dug around quite a bit on the 'net, trying to find the criteria for a Pulitzer Prize. There really doesn't seem to be much; the book needs to be by an American, or about an American, or about America, or... \u201cother.\u201d I guess if the little panel at Columbia likes it, for any reason, it qualifies. Maybe I should make a prize called the Stacey Prize. You can qualify thus: Any book, written by a human, about a human, or about something that resembles a human, or any book that a human can read. ...more (Rese\u00f1a un poco m\u00e1s completa en La Loca de los Libros. ) ACLARACI\u00d3N: lo que a continuaci\u00f3n he escrito, no es una rese\u00f1a, sino un desvar\u00edo lleno de sentimientos encontrados. Todav\u00eda no estoy segura de que me haya gustado esta novela. No s\u00e9 si una novela que te angustia a la vez que te produce ganas locas de querer saber que hay m\u00e1s all\u00e1, pueda calificarse como un \u00e9xito o una pasi\u00f3n inconclusa--insatisfecha. Fue dif\u00edcil leer sobre March desde su propio punto de vista. Me sent\u00ed inc\u00f3moda, triste, furio (Rese\u00f1a un poco m\u00e1s completa en La Loca de los Libros. ) ACLARACI\u00d3N: lo que a continuaci\u00f3n he escrito, no es una rese\u00f1a, sino un desvar\u00edo lleno de sentimientos encontrados. Todav\u00eda no estoy segura de que me haya gustado esta novela. No s\u00e9 si una novela que te angustia a la vez que te produce ganas locas de querer saber que hay m\u00e1s all\u00e1, pueda calificarse como un \u00e9xito o una pasi\u00f3n inconclusa--insatisfecha. Fue dif\u00edcil leer sobre March desde su propio punto de vista. Me sent\u00ed inc\u00f3moda, triste, furiosa, indignada... y de nuevo, triste. Antes que nada, saben qui\u00e9n es March, \u00bfno? \u00a1El pap\u00e1 de Meg, Jo, Beth y Amy! \u00a1El marido de Marmee! \u00a1El suegro de (view spoiler) [ Laurie, John Brooke y el Profesor Bhaer (hide spoiler) ] ! \u00a1El abuelo de (view spoiler) [ Daisy y Demi; de Rob y Teddy; de BESS! (hide spoiler) ] Ya saben, ese tipo . Y bueno, pues aqu\u00ed lo tienen ahora. A \u00e9se CON HISTORIA PROPIA. Desde que le\u00ed Mujercitas por primera vez, cuando ten\u00eda once a\u00f1os, que siento a las hermanas March como si fuesen mis propias hermanas : todo aquello que gire en torno a ellas, o que tenga algo que ver con su mundo de anta\u00f1o, sus voces, sus juegos, la familia y las historias; todo lo remotamente Marcheano me provoca un arranque de ternura te\u00f1ido de nostalgia casi instintivo. Por ello, ten\u00eda que leer esta novela . OK. Hay cosas que odi\u00e9 (view spoiler) [pero que tienen que ver con mi aversi\u00f3n absoluta hacia ciertas infidelidades que te toman por sorpresa, y cierta caracterizaciones exageradas (hide spoiler) ] Y cosas que am\u00e9 ( (view spoiler) [ el estilo de escritura, la personalidad guerrera de March, las breves apariciones de las hermanas March; ciertas escenas sobre Marmee y su forma de ser tan igual a JO; descripciones, escenarios; todo lo t\u00e9cnico, en fin, me pareci\u00f3 impecable (hide spoiler) ] . A\u00fan as\u00ed, a pesar de que es una novela muy buena, no llegu\u00e9 a disfrutarla --y esto lo digo en el sentido de que no es MUJERCITAS , obvio. No te deja con una sonrisa en la cara. Es todo lo asquerosamente realista que el libro de Alcott se cuidaba en no ser (al menos, no demasiado). Ahora bien, me gustar\u00eda decir que muchas de las acciones del protagonista no son acordes al March que imaginara Alcott, pero si lo hiciera estar\u00eda errada, ya que no sabemos realmente qu\u00e9 pensaba la autora de Mujecitas sobre su patriarca March . Recordemos que es un personaje secundario en la novela: sabemos poco y nada sobre \u00e9l, as\u00ed que, en ese caso, por m\u00e1s que me encantar\u00eda indignarme y patotear al son de Imposible que March decidiera hacer eso!! (Y Cito, para que se hagan una idea a lo que me refiero: (view spoiler) [ \"But what greater punishment would it be if whispers of my momentary weakness should come to the ears of my dear wife, or scandal touch my daughters in their youthful innocence?\" . Varias veces he le\u00eddo ya en esta clase de retellings (fanfiction pero m\u00e1s \"elegante\"), de autores que, vaya a saber porqu\u00e9, deciden ir por este camino para; es decir, elegir esta clase de \"debilidades\" o \"defectos\" en el af\u00e1n de quererlos hacer m\u00e1s \"humanos\" o no tan ideales como algunba vez se los imaginara originalmente. Me acuerdo de haber le\u00eddo un retelling de Orgullo y Prejuicio donde Bingley (YA casado con Jane) optaba por meterle los cuernos con una esclava! HORROR!! En este caso, es algo similar; per con la gran diferencia de que est\u00e1 muy bien escrito, muy bien explicado y en un contexto de igualdad entre los dos involucrados. Esa es, creo yo, la grandeza que mantiene el personaje de March, es un idealista en palabra y en hecho, no descansa nunca, sufre por lo perdido, por la injusticia, por todos aquellos por los que nadie llora; pero no lo hace desde la condescendencia ni la pena, sino desde la lucha y el deseo de contribuir a la libertad. O sea, este no es un boludo cualquiera que derrama l\u00e1grimas pero no hace nada. (hide spoiler) ] Este March, m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de lo \"humano\" que la autora lo pinta, es un luchador , igual que el padre ausente de Meg, Jo, Beth y Amy. Y a pesar de que lo prefiero en la luz santificadora de la pluma original, este hombre es mucho m\u00e1s real e igual de conmovedor. Por ello, la novela no lleg\u00f3 a decepcionarme del todo. Me gust\u00f3 el protagonista al mismo tiempo que me desagradaron muchas de sus decisiones. En fin, a pesar de algunos malos tragos, am\u00e9 leer sobre los inicios de la relaci\u00f3n entre Robert y Marmee; sobre las similitudes entre esta \u00faltima y Jo (ese \"car\u00e1cter podrido\" de ambas, sin miedo a nada ( (view spoiler) [aunque, llegando al final, cuando la trama cambia al punto de vista de Marmee, ciertas actitudes o revelaciones fueron algo decepcionantes o terminaron por angustiarme m\u00e1s de lo que ya estaba) (hide spoiler) ] ; sobre John Brooke llevando la se\u00f1ora March a ya saben donde si leyeron Mujecitas ; cierta escena que tiene como gran protagonista a BETH---porque,\u00bflo dije ya? amo a BETH, tambi\u00e9n. Las amo a todas en realidad, y no puedo explicarles la alegr\u00eda/tristeza inmensa que me provoca el leer m\u00e1s sobre ellas, sea el libro bueno o malo. Este, si bien me dej\u00f3 bastante deprimida ( (view spoiler) [el final fue bastante desagradable para m\u00ed (hide spoiler) ] ), result\u00f3 ser una novela excepcional, la disfrutase o no; y la recomiendo para cualquier fan de Mujercitas y , porqu\u00e9 no, para cualquiera que quiera leer un buen libro sobre la guerra civil estadounidense. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more In March, Geraldine Brooks imaginatively writes a back story for Little Women by turning a beloved children's novel into an adult tour de force. She takes on many of the critical social issues facing Americans in the Nineteenth Century and weaves them into the lives of the fictitious March family. . The mostly absent father from Little Women takes center stage and confronts the prevailing moral crisis of the day-slavery and the abolitionist response. Real historical figures are introduced and In March, Geraldine Brooks imaginatively writes a back story for Little Women by turning a beloved children's novel into an adult tour de force. She takes on many of the critical social issues facing Americans in the Nineteenth Century and weaves them into the lives of the fictitious March family. . The mostly absent father from Little Women takes center stage and confronts the prevailing moral crisis of the day-slavery and the abolitionist response. Real historical figures are introduced and the interaction between fact and fiction makes for an unforgettable reading experience. This is outstanding historical fiction. ...more I simply ask you to see that there is only one thing to do when we fall, and that is to get up, and go on with the life that is set in front of us, and try to do the good of which our hands are capable for the people who come in our way. That, at least, has been my path. I didn't see this emotional powerhouse of a sentiment coming for most of this book. The parts about Mr. March had me at a solid four stars. It was really good but not entirely great. But then, to my surprise, we got a section fro I simply ask you to see that there is only one thing to do when we fall, and that is to get up, and go on with the life that is set in front of us, and try to do the good of which our hands are capable for the people who come in our way. That, at least, has been my path. I didn't see this emotional powerhouse of a sentiment coming for most of this book. The parts about Mr. March had me at a solid four stars. It was really good but not entirely great. But then, to my surprise, we got a section from Marmee's perspective. It wasn't until I was reading parts of her thoughts that I saw that the book wasn't so much about Mr. March; it was about war and family and what it means to be a good person in a terrible time. This ended up being an amazing book and after finishing it I can see why it won the Pulitzer Prize. But it did take me most of the book to get there. The quote above was not said my Mr. March. Otherwise I don't really want to say anything because it's really how the story unfolds that makes it so amazing. ...more There have been so many reviews of this Pulitzer Prize winning novel, that I don't think I can add anything more to the discussion. What I would like to say is that I absolutely loved this book and think it a deserved winner of such an august award because of its exceptional qualities and the literary vision of its author. This is what I think about March : The writing style is exquisite, with beautifully structured sentences and lively expression. Using a slightly antique, formal style, Brooks ha There have been so many reviews of this Pulitzer Prize winning novel, that I don't think I can add anything more to the discussion. What I would like to say is that I absolutely loved this book and think it a deserved winner of such an august award because of its exceptional qualities and the literary vision of its author. This is what I think about March : The writing style is exquisite, with beautifully structured sentences and lively expression. Using a slightly antique, formal style, Brooks has evoked the 19th century but her skill means that the words danced off the page for me. The narrative structure is excellent. March\u2019s letters provide insight into one aspect of his thinking, while his first person narrative shows other facets, more honest and detailed than what he sends home to his family. A potentially disruptive switch in perspective from his narrative to that of Marmee, his wife, is handled with aplomb. It is valuable to get her interpretation of what has happened, and the author uses the crisis evoked by her mis-understandings to delve into the deep nature of the relationships between a husband and wife. The literary allusion, to the junior fiction novel Little Women by Louisa May Alcott , is clever, but does not overwhelm the reader familiar with that delightful volume. Instead, Brooks has created an insightful work of adult fiction, in which mature issues of love, loyalty, fidelity, family, ego and pride are examined, to my satisfaction as a reader. The historical events fascinated me. Brooks is married to a Civil War historian, and she has used the historical records brilliantly to paint an honest picture of the inexactitudes, inanities and inequalities which are borne out in such an emotion-charged conflict. Both Union and Confederate troops were involved in atrocities. Their commanders were guilty of poor decisions, which cost countless lives. Not all slaves wanted freedom, if they had a vested interest to protect. For me, the most enlightening part of the book were the chapters relating to March\u2019s time at Oak Landing, the so-called liberated plantation. It functions as a microcosm for all the human frailties, nobility, evil and senseless violence than occurs in war. 5\u2605s ...more I ended up liking this quite a bit more than I expected to. I really liked the structure of it. Brooks crafted this really well with rich details and well developed characters is a fairly short novel. I do wish that I had read this instead of listening to it. The narration for part one was great but when it switched POVs the narration was too similar. I wish there would have been a female narrator for part 2. Well.. I finished the audiobook last night and I must say that I really did enjoy listening to the narrator's voice - it was really nice and warm. But the book itself.. I think Brooks' writing style is fabulous, I really enjoyed that. The beginning of the book was relatively gripping, but I got increasingly irritated with the main character March. For one he remained the very naive yet proud dreamer throughout the entire book, and while I found it endearing at first, he did not develop as a chara Well.. I finished the audiobook last night and I must say that I really did enjoy listening to the narrator's voice - it was really nice and warm. But the book itself.. I think Brooks' writing style is fabulous, I really enjoyed that. The beginning of the book was relatively gripping, but I got increasingly irritated with the main character March. For one he remained the very naive yet proud dreamer throughout the entire book, and while I found it endearing at first, he did not develop as a character and remained stuck in his role as a naive abolitionist of slavery. I found the last few chapters particularly exasperating, March feeling excessively guilty over what happened during the war. He just seemed pathetic to me - I so wanted him to grow and be a man.. I found the end disappointing, almost as if Brooks couldn't be bothered to find a way to redeem March (though perhaps that was never her intention - it's just that I would have liked to see March's pride broken one way or another). Some other reviewers have commented how Brooks seemed to have completely missed Marmee's character - I couldn't agree more. I found Brooks' Marmee totally out of character as originally created by Alcott, and cannot say I liked her at all. If you didn't know Alcott's \" Little Women \", perhaps it wouldn't matter too much and be quite enjoyable. All in all it was just OK for me. ...more I respected Geraldine Brooks as a journalist and a writer of non-fiction for many years before she started writing novels and I\u2019ve long meant to read this novel, which won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 2006. Having only recently re-read Little Women for the first time in many years, this seemed the ideal time to tackle a book which draws on that novel for its inspiration. Brooks notes in the afterward to the novel that Little Women is concerned with the way a year lived at the edge of war wo I respected Geraldine Brooks as a journalist and a writer of non-fiction for many years before she started writing novels and I\u2019ve long meant to read this novel, which won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 2006. Having only recently re-read Little Women for the first time in many years, this seemed the ideal time to tackle a book which draws on that novel for its inspiration. Brooks notes in the afterward to the novel that Little Women is concerned with the way a year lived at the edge of war worked changes in the characters of the March sisters, but what war did to their father was left unstated. March is the story of the effect of war on a man who experiences it first-hand. I have the benefit of two factors in reading this book. Firstly, while I have a great affection for Little Women , I have no particular investment in Mr March having a particular character or personality. He is a shadowy figure in Alcott\u2019s novel, being absent for most of it and even when he returns from the war, the focus of the novel is not on him. Secondly, I know little about the American Civil War \u2013 the fact that I describe it in that way shows that I am not American. It is not part of my history or the history of my country. This means that I bring no pre-conceptions to a narrative in which that war is central. While I lack knowledge of the historical events to which Brooks refers in the course of the novel, I expect that Brooks did her research well. She discloses her sources in the afterword and also discusses the license she took in dealing with some of the events referred to in the novel. Brooks based Mr March on Louisa May Alcott\u2019s father Branson Alcott: an entirely acceptable approach given that Alcott drew extensively on her family circumstances in writing Little Women . So the background as a pedlar in the south, the life in Concord, the abolitionist views and activities, the friendship with Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau and the veganism \u2013 all aspects of Mr March\u2019s life \u2013 are directly drawn from Branson Alcott\u2019s life. However, there is no suggestion that Brooks based the character of Marmee on Alcott\u2019s mother. In the afterward Brooks writes that she first read Little Women at her mother\u2019s suggestion when she was ten years old. Her mother counseled her to take it with a grain of salt, telling her that \u201cnobody in real life is such a goody-goody as that Marmee\u201d. So Marmee, incredibly saintly in Little Women is developed in a way which makes her very human and very flawed. This may shock some readers, but I thought that it was plausible, particularly given the scene in Little Women in which Marmee discloses to Jo that she has a bad temper which she needs to work hard to control. There\u2019s a lot I loved about this book. Brooks has written a novel which does not hold back in its description of the horrors of war without being preachy. She gives historical information without resorting to tedious information dumps or obvious \u201cas you know, Bob\u201d moments. She creates a sense of time and place without overdoing the archaic vocabulary in either the dialogue or the descriptive language. In addition, Brooks ties the novel to the events of Little Women in a natural and unforced way. The letters which Mr March writes home to his family are particularly resonant of Alcott's style. It\u2019s not a perfect novel. There were a few incidents which strained credulity, and those more familiar with the background and events of the Civil War would probably find some nits to pick. However, the novel made me think and it made me cry. It will also, I think, affect the way in which I approach Little Women in future. This is a good thing. After my recent re-reading of Little Women , I was a little overwhelmed by the pervasiveness of its lessons on morality. Now, I will be more aware of the context in which it was written and will think almost as much about the absent Mr March as about his daughters. ...more It feels like a long time since I\u2019ve read such an accomplished novel. Geraldine Brooks manages to catch the horror of war in a phrase: \u201c\u2026[men] were clinging [to the rocky bluff over the river] as a cluster of bees dangling from a hive, and slipping off in clumps, four or five together.\u201d Her characters are so richly drawn and steeped in a historically accurate language that we feel transported, and are eager to delve into our own researches. In this novel she recreates the environment of one of o It feels like a long time since I\u2019ve read such an accomplished novel. Geraldine Brooks manages to catch the horror of war in a phrase: \u201c\u2026[men] were clinging [to the rocky bluff over the river] as a cluster of bees dangling from a hive, and slipping off in clumps, four or five together.\u201d Her characters are so richly drawn and steeped in a historically accurate language that we feel transported, and are eager to delve into our own researches. In this novel she recreates the environment of one of our most beloved and earliest American writers, Louisa May Alcott. But instead of walking on furrowed soil, she moves back to imagine Alcott\u2019s father, using his own journals and those of his friends, as well as the journals of Civil War chaplains, soldiers, medics, and slaves. She chose an unusual man, but she made him gracious, sympathetic, fallible, generous, and loving. This is essential to carry us through those bitter days of war, for we need a man willing to mull over events of that time but also to guide us. He was sincere, but must have also been painfully strict with his family: \u2026I had come in stages to a different belief about how one should be in this life. I now felt convinced that the greater part of a man\u2019s duty consists in abstaining from much that he is in the habit of consuming\u2026None in our household ate meat but now we learned to do without milk and cheese also, for why should the calf be deprived of its mother\u2019s milk? Further, we found that by limiting our own consumption to two meals a day, we were able to set aside a basket of provisions from which the girls were able to exact a pleasure far greater than sating an animal appetite. Once a week they carried the fruits of their sacrifice as a gift to a destitute brood of German immigrants. I laughed to read this, for the sincerity of the father must be the disappointment of the daughters. Part I is written in the voice of Captain March, chaplain of the Union Army. Though we learn the deepest secrets buried in his heart, we never learn his first name. Part II is written in the voice of his wife, Marmee March n\u00e9e Day of Concord, Massachusetts. The juxtaposition of the two voices shows us once again, should we need reminding, that gestures alone between husband and wife are often miscontrued and that we should try to give careful voice to our meaning and intentions if we wish the union to succeed. \u201cRagged scallop of cypress woods\u201d, Jo's \u201clawless strands\u201d [of hair], \u201ca cold drizzle [falling] from heavily swagged clouds\u201d: such phrases spike the book with rich flavor and bursts of color, and these are all Brooks. It is a masterpiece of historical reconstruction, but what I reveled in most was her smooth and seamless telling of the tale in backward glances and nineteenth century cadence and language, her use of metaphor, her rich imaginings, and its grounding in historical record. We can thank her for reminding us of our history and for remembering those men and women who left records of their lives and of our most uncivil war. For those contemplating the audio version, the Richard Easton narration is magnificent. His reading's fluency of expression and elegance of tone mirrors the beauty of the text. ...more When I finished this book, I was satisfied with the story but impatient with the character of March, who seems to caught up in his own weakness and cause. A navel gazer to the nth degree who, even after his wartime experiences, never has a clue to the feelings or hopes of others and remains buried in hypocrisy. He seeks redemption while hiding his actions and thoughts, in direct contrast to what he preaches as a religious leader and discards the needs of his family from the beginning when he squ When I finished this book, I was satisfied with the story but impatient with the character of March, who seems to caught up in his own weakness and cause. A navel gazer to the nth degree who, even after his wartime experiences, never has a clue to the feelings or hopes of others and remains buried in hypocrisy. He seeks redemption while hiding his actions and thoughts, in direct contrast to what he preaches as a religious leader and discards the needs of his family from the beginning when he squanders his fortune. Throughout the book, the main character is called \"Mister March;\" never by his first name or first/last name combined. A reinforcement of how removed he is from life? His Little Women seem better off without him. Geraldine Brooks' writing is the saving grace of this story. Her characters are vivid and act consistently, even March. Her descriptions of the settings, too, are vivid. Was there ever a better description of the Mississippi River than \"...water without sparkle or shimmer.........it sucks the light down and gives back naught.\" ...more Mr. March, father to Luisa May Alcott's Little Women , is brought to life in this poignant novel by Geraldine Brooks. When he departs to fight in the Civil War, Mr. March is unprepared for the great cruelties he will bear witness to. His moral certainties are called into question by the atrocities of war; his greatest struggle becomes a search for balance between staying true to his principals and doing what's necessary to triumph in battle so that he may one day return to his beloved wife and da Mr. March, father to Luisa May Alcott's Little Women , is brought to life in this poignant novel by Geraldine Brooks. When he departs to fight in the Civil War, Mr. March is unprepared for the great cruelties he will bear witness to. His moral certainties are called into question by the atrocities of war; his greatest struggle becomes a search for balance between staying true to his principals and doing what's necessary to triumph in battle so that he may one day return to his beloved wife and daughters. Many chapters begin with Mr. March penning a letter to his wife. These introductions provide insight to his character and highlight a soldier's struggle in deciding what to write home, weighing the consequences of being truthful against a need to protect loved ones from the horrors of war: And every day, as I turn to what should be the happy obligation of opening my mind to my wife, I grope in vain for words with which to convey to her even a part of what I have witnessed, what I have felt. As for what I have done, and the consequences of my actions, these I do not even attempt to convey. Mr. March's letters often segue into the past, allowing for backstory that further enriches his character and depicts the savage treatment of slaves in the antebellum South: From a burlap sack the man drew out a braided leather whip almost as tall as he was. Then, moving to a spot about six feet from where [she] lay, he made a swift, running skip, raising the lash and bringing it down with a crack. The stroke peeled away a narrow strip of skin, which lifted on the whip, dangled for a moment, and then fell to the leaf-littered floor. A bright band of blood sprang up in its place. Her whole body quivered. After spending considerable time with Mr. March, the reader is rewarded with a few chapters written from the perspective of Mrs. March, breathing new life into a classic character. These chapters offer the same insightful gems from Marmee (Mrs. March) that readers gleaned from her character when reading Little Women : I am not alone in this. I only let him do to me what men have ever done to women: march off to empty glory and hollow acclaim and leave us behind to pick up the pieces. The broken cities, the burned barns, the innocent injured beasts, the ruined bodies of the boys we bore and the men we lay with. More fascinating still is the author's approach to creating Mr. March's character. Following in the footsteps of Louisa May Alcott - who modeled Little Women after herself and her sisters - Geraldine Brooks turned to the letters and journals of Alcott's father, Bronson Alcott. With use of Bronson's letters, the author infused her book with truth and generated a man who was a vegetarian and an abolitionist - both radical ideals in the nineteenth century. March transports readers to 1861 with sumptuous prose and noteworthy characters, enriching a classic tale with new perspectives from old, treasured characters. ...more I wasn't sure how I'd like a Civil War book. Not my favorite time period, but this was excellent. This was my introduction to Geraldine Brooks as a novelist. I'd read her non-fiction Nine Parts of Desire , but none of her fiction. Now I've read all of her novels and enjoyed every one. This is my favorite quote from March : \"Who is the brave man---he who feels no fear? If so, then bravery is but a polite term for a mind devoid of rationality and imagination. The brave man, the real hero, quakes with I wasn't sure how I'd like a Civil War book. Not my favorite time period, but this was excellent. This was my introduction to Geraldine Brooks as a novelist. I'd read her non-fiction Nine Parts of Desire , but none of her fiction. Now I've read all of her novels and enjoyed every one. This is my favorite quote from March : \"Who is the brave man---he who feels no fear? If so, then bravery is but a polite term for a mind devoid of rationality and imagination. The brave man, the real hero, quakes with terror, sweats, feels his very bowels betray him, and in spite of this moves forward to do the act he dreads.\" ...more I was so excited to read this, since I love Little Women so much! I was thrilled to think of the possibilities that are gained from seeing the stories through the eyes of Mr. March, their father. However, I was sorely disappointed. The story was not written in the same spirit or style as the original, which can be expected with a different author. However, the main character did not have the morals and character that you would hope, gleaning from an optimistic book like Little Women. I feel like I was so excited to read this, since I love Little Women so much! I was thrilled to think of the possibilities that are gained from seeing the stories through the eyes of Mr. March, their father. However, I was sorely disappointed. The story was not written in the same spirit or style as the original, which can be expected with a different author. However, the main character did not have the morals and character that you would hope, gleaning from an optimistic book like Little Women. I feel like March tried to appease the feministic crowd, since Marmy March was so far ahead of her time concerning women's rights. However, the feminism that Marmy embraced was nothing like the current image of feminism today. Marmy embraced the personal power of women, while developing the kindness and compassion that support the world and families. Louisa May Alcott taught us that we can change the whole world through our loving and intelligent influence. \"March\" teaches us that these things are unnecessary, so just protest! The feminism of this book avoids setting any of Alcott's lofty goals of self-perfection, and demoralizes the character of Mr. March. ...more This is the first book I've read by Brooks and I really enjoyed it, enough so that I want to read Year of Wonders. The writing is absorbing, and the plot harrowing. I felt Brooks did a great job of working off of the somewhat sugary life of Little Women and thrusting the reader into a more realistic depiction of the Civil War. Her brilliant idea was to write the fictional life of Mr. March, Jo's absent father from Little Women. As we all know that Alcott borrowed from her own life, there's a lev This is the first book I've read by Brooks and I really enjoyed it, enough so that I want to read Year of Wonders. The writing is absorbing, and the plot harrowing. I felt Brooks did a great job of working off of the somewhat sugary life of Little Women and thrusting the reader into a more realistic depiction of the Civil War. Her brilliant idea was to write the fictional life of Mr. March, Jo's absent father from Little Women. As we all know that Alcott borrowed from her own life, there's a level of fascination knowing that some of the situations are real. In the end, this is a story about the way war ravages lives, both individual and collective. And the toll in takes on the men who fight, and never return the same. The women are especially well drawn, however. Pulitzer Prize winner, FYI. ...more \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u064b\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0623\u0645\u062a\u0639 \u0645\u0627 \u062a\u0642\u0631\u0623 \u0639\u0646\u0647\u060c \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0633\u0648\u0623 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0637\u0644\u0627\u0642 \u0625\u0630\u0627 \u062a\u062e\u064a\u0644\u062a \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0643 \u0644\u0644\u062d\u0638\u0629 \u062a\u0639\u064a\u0634\u0647\u0627\u060c\u0648\u0647\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062a \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628\u060c \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0647\u0644\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0646\u0627\u0641\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0643\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0635\u064a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0644\u0647\u0645\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u062a\u0641\u0648\u0642 \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0628\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062c\u064f\u0631\u0645\u062a \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0625\u062b\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0648\u062f\u064a\u0629\u060c \u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0642\u0627\u0645\u062a \u0644\u0623\u0633\u0628\u0627\u0628 \u062a\u062e\u0635 \u062f\u0648\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0646\u062a\u062c\u062a \u0645\u0627 \u0623\u0641\u0627\u062f\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0645\u0639\u0627\u0621. \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0648\u062d\u062a \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u0626\u0628 \u0645\u0646 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629(\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0621 \u0635\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0627\u062a) \u0644\u062a\u0646\u0633\u062c \u062d\u0648\u0644\u0647 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u062a\u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0631\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0648\u062d\u064a\u0627\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0631\u062d\u0644\u0629 \u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0631\u0627\u062d\u0644\u0647\u0627\u060c \u0648\u0643\u0644 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u064a\u062f\u0648\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0622\u062a\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0648\u0645\u062a\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0643\u062b\u0641\u0629 \u0648\u0645 \u062f\u0627\u0626\u0645\u064b\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0623\u0645\u062a\u0639 \u0645\u0627 \u062a\u0642\u0631\u0623 \u0639\u0646\u0647\u060c \u0648\u0644\u0643\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0633\u0648\u0623 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0637\u0644\u0627\u0642 \u0625\u0630\u0627 \u062a\u062e\u064a\u0644\u062a \u0646\u0641\u0633\u0643 \u0644\u0644\u062d\u0638\u0629 \u062a\u0639\u064a\u0634\u0647\u0627\u060c\u0648\u0647\u064a \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u062f\u0627\u0631\u062a \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628\u060c \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0647\u0644\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0631\u064a\u0643\u064a\u0629 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062a\u0646\u0627\u0641\u0633 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u0645\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u062b\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u0643\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u0641\u0627\u0635\u064a\u0644 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0644\u0647\u0645\u0629 \u0648\u062a\u062a\u0641\u0648\u0642 \u0639\u0644\u064a\u0647\u0627 \u0645\u0646 \u062d\u064a\u062b \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0646\u0628\u064a\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0647\u064a \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u062a\u064a \u062c\u064f\u0631\u0645\u062a \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0625\u062b\u0631\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0628\u0648\u062f\u064a\u0629\u060c \u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0642\u0627\u0645\u062a \u0644\u0623\u0633\u0628\u0627\u0628 \u062a\u062e\u0635 \u062f\u0648\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0646\u062a\u062c\u062a \u0645\u0627 \u0623\u0641\u0627\u062f\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u062c\u0645\u0639\u0627\u0621. \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0629 \u0627\u0633\u062a\u0648\u062d\u062a \u0634\u062e\u0635\u064a\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u0626\u0628 \u0645\u0646 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629(\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0621 \u0635\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0627\u062a) \u0644\u062a\u0646\u0633\u062c \u062d\u0648\u0644\u0647 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u062a\u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0629 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0631\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0648\u062d\u064a\u0627\u0629 \u0643\u0627\u0645\u0644\u0629 \u0648\u0631\u062d\u0644\u0629 \u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0643\u0644 \u0645\u0631\u0627\u062d\u0644\u0647\u0627\u060c \u0648\u0643\u0644 \u0630\u0644\u0643 \u064a\u062f\u0648\u0631 \u0641\u064a \u0622\u062a\u0648\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0648\u0645\u062a\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0627\u062a\u0647\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0643\u062b\u0641\u0629 \u0648\u0645\u0627 \u062a\u0641\u0639\u0644\u0647 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0625\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0646. \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u062f\u0623\u062a \u0628\u0645\u0634\u0647\u062f \u0645\u0622\u0633\u0627\u0648\u064a \u064a\u0631\u0627\u0633\u0644 \u0632\u0648\u062c\u062a\u0647 \u0644\u064a\u0628\u062f\u0623 \u0647\u062c\u0648\u0645 \u0645\u0628\u0627\u063a\u062a \u0648\u062a\u0646\u062c\u062d \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0629 \u0641\u064a \u062a\u0648\u0635\u064a\u0641 \u0643\u0648\u0627\u0631\u062b \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0639\u0631\u0643\u0629 \u0648\u0631\u0633\u0645 \u0627\u0644\u0623\u0644\u0645 \u0628\u0628\u0631\u0627\u0639\u0629. \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062d\u0628 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0642\u0631\u0627\u0631 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0641\u0642\u062f\u060c \u0639\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0631\u064a\u0629 \u062a\u0643\u062a\u0628 \u0627\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0629 \u0644\u062a\u062d\u0627\u0648\u0644 \u0623\u0646 \u062a\u062d\u064a\u064a \u0645\u0627 \u0645\u0627\u062a \u0641\u064a\u0646\u0627. \u0625\u0644\u0647\u0627\u0645 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629(\u0646\u0633\u0627\u0621 \u0635\u063a\u064a\u0631\u0627\u062a) \u0644\u0644\u0643\u0627\u062a\u0628\u0629 \u062c\u062f\u064a\u0631 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062d\u062a\u0631\u0627\u0645\u060c \u0623\u0646 \u062a\u062a\u0631\u0643 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0645\u0627 \u0641\u064a\u0646\u0627 \u0645\u0627 \u064a\u062c\u0639\u0644\u0646\u0627 \u0646\u0628\u062f\u0639 \u0639\u0646\u0647\u0627 \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u062e\u0631\u0649 \u0647\u0648 \u0634\u0626 \u064a\u0633\u062a\u062d\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0633\u062f. ...more A very nice account of the mythological Mr. March's life of Louisa May Alcott's Little Women . This book was everything I expected it to be. The book gives an excellent view of the civil war as seen through the eyes of a pacifist and vegetarian. I like that Brooks doesn't make the Marches as an ideal family as Little Women does, but yet she keeps the sense of a loving family. This book almost makes me want to pick up Little Women again. My only knock on Brooks' writing is that she sometimes falls A very nice account of the mythological Mr. March's life of Louisa May Alcott's Little Women . This book was everything I expected it to be. The book gives an excellent view of the civil war as seen through the eyes of a pacifist and vegetarian. I like that Brooks doesn't make the Marches as an ideal family as Little Women does, but yet she keeps the sense of a loving family. This book almost makes me want to pick up Little Women again. My only knock on Brooks' writing is that she sometimes falls into the trap of over-describing scenes like so many contemporary writers do. However, this was infrequent and I will have no hesitation to pick up any of her other books in the future. I recommend to anyone who likes Alcott's works. 4.258793 stars :-) ...more I would have liked this better if it hadn't been about Mr. and Mrs. March I think. I just found certain things jarred with my vision of these people formed from my reading of Little Women . I suppose that is a fault in me rather than in the book as Brooks clearly did her research (as the author's afterword in this audiobook makes obvious). Richard Easton was very good doing the narration. This is the story of Mr. March, the absent father from Louisa May Alcott's \"Little Women.\" As historical background, the author describes the devastation and moral complexities of the Civil War. A quite moving story, describing the slavery questions during the Civil War and how this war has affected men and women and subsequently transformed their lives. 4* Year of Wonders 4* People of the Book 4* Caleb's Crossing 4* March TR The Secret Chord This is a very typical way to start a review but I just can't help it since only a book this bad could have finally compelled me to write a review. It's not that this is the worst book I've ever read, undoubtedly there are far worse. But Geraldine Brooks had a decent track record until this! What is this? It's fan fiction at best. Which would be cool if say it wasn't done by a Pulitzer Prize winning author and didn't completely besmirch a beloved fictional family of the Marches. Mr. March's cha This is a very typical way to start a review but I just can't help it since only a book this bad could have finally compelled me to write a review. It's not that this is the worst book I've ever read, undoubtedly there are far worse. But Geraldine Brooks had a decent track record until this! What is this? It's fan fiction at best. Which would be cool if say it wasn't done by a Pulitzer Prize winning author and didn't completely besmirch a beloved fictional family of the Marches. Mr. March's character is whiny, annoying, cheating, sanctimonious prick who is completely patronizing of his strong and intelligent wife. I wanted to yell grow a pair throughout the book to both of them. And that's just the March character. Never mind that the entire narrative is as coherent as an Alzheimer patients dinner order.... Gah! I finished the book only wanting to know how this shitshow could possibly end and it finally did with March returning home reluctantly while still savoring his sad woe for a former slave while playing with his daughters. Yes, that's just how I wanted to remember Little Women. ...more", "Title": "March"},
