{"Comments": "I have a feeling this book may take root and blossom further within me over time,<---M> but for now</---M>, I must stop one star short of my top rating. \"<+++>Out Stealing Horses</+++>\" won the world's richest literary prize (<---B>The Impac, out of Dublin</---B>) last year, and it has had enough buzz that I had to wait weeks for it to come off the reserve list at our local library. It is the tale of a 67-year-old Norwegian man who retreats to the north woods to review his life, and particularly, a fateful summer in 1948 when he was I have a feeling this book may take root and blossom further within me over time, but for now, I must stop one star short of my top rating. \"<+++>Out Stealing Horses</+++>\" won the world's richest literary prize (The Impac, out of Dublin) last year, and it has had enough buzz that I had to wait weeks for it to come off the reserve list at our local library. It is the tale of a 67-year-old Norwegian man who retreats to the north woods to review his life, and particularly, a fateful summer in 1948 when he was 15 and sharing a cabin with his father for the last time. The book in many ways reminds me of a palimpsest, because at several turns, it will reveal yet another critical story that underlies the ones that came before. The novel opens with a tragedy that befalls the narrator's best friend in that long-ago summer, and it seems that will become the fulcrum of the plot -- but it turns out only to be a tangential part of the story. Unbeknownst to the boy, this event will deeply affect his relationship with his father, and it is only as time goes on that he will learn his father's full history and how his friend's crisis fits into that larger picture, which includes the revelation that his father had been an operative for the Norwegian resistance during World War II. Although the book is steeped in melancholy, it is also laced throughout with moments of joy and a deep appetite for life, much of which is embodied in stories of simple chores and heroic physical challenges in the deep woods. I'm tempted to say that, in the end, I was disappointed because this novel is just so ....<---F> Scandinavian </---F>... particularly in the way the characters say almost nothing that reveals their deep feelings and motives to each other, so that the reader has to infer all of that from their actions, whether noble or petty. But this may be a more universal story of how men particularly have trouble expressing their feelings in words, or even wanting to share those emotions with the people they love most. And frankly, I ended by feeling angry at the boy's father, even though I can't explain why without revealing a critical part of the plot. One of the ironies of \"Out Stealing Horses\" is that the narrator's favorite author is Dickens, who explores his characters' personalities in great detail and always resolves everything for the better at the end of most of his novels. Petterson does neither. He suggests; he sketches; and he leaves us to infer the motives and deepest wellsprings of his characters' lives. And yet, there is much to love about his writing and his storytelling. At one point, the narrator says that if you tell people some facts about your life, they think they know you, because they construct a story in their minds to flesh out those facts -- and yet they don't really have any idea who you are; only you do, deep inside yourself. That passage not only epitomizes the character; it serves as advice, or a warning, for readers who want to make sense of the people in this story. ...more What do we see when we look back over our lives. Are we the hero of our own story? Looking into that mirror, can we really see ourselves, or is our view doomed to be perpetually blocked, offering maybe a Maigret image of only the backs of our heads? A man, 67, Trond, lives alone in a small house by a lake in east Norway and contemplates his past. We travel back and forth between the present, 1999, and 1948 when he was a fifteen-year-old, living with his father in a summer place. The events of th What do we see when we look back over our lives. Are we the hero of our own story? Looking into that mirror, can we really see ourselves, or is our view doomed to be perpetually blocked, offering maybe a Maigret image of only the backs of our heads? A man, 67, Trond, lives alone in a small house by a lake in east Norway and contemplates his past. We travel back and forth between the present, 1999, and 1948 when he was a fifteen-year-old, living with his father in a summer place. The events of that summer defined his life in many ways. This is his coming of age story. I was very much of two minds about this book. For the first half, maybe two thirds, I loved it, thought it might be a masterpiece. There is a rich store of allusion here, imagery that fills, language that offers structure and beauty in support of its aims, story-telling craft that (mostly) worked very well. But I found that the back third left me dry. If I could I would have given it 3.5 stars. There are events in the story that call for some more drama in how Trond reacts, yet he often seems incapable. Maybe that was the author\u2019s intent. I don\u2019t know, but I found it unsatisfying. Too many questions were left up in the air for my comfort. The book made me wonder, though, if the author\u2019s great gifts have been put to more satisfying use in other works. I was impressed with how Petterson modulated the pace and tone of his words. I loved the sparse, clipped sentences that open the book. \"Early November. It\u2019s nine o\u2019clock. The titmice are banging against the window\u2026.There is a reddish light over the trees by the lake. It is starting to blow.\" This reflects well the starkness of the character, how his life is as stripped down as the words. Petterson\u2019s style grows appropriately breathless when painting a haying scene: \"As the wire gradually unrolled it became easier, but by then I was that much more exhausted, and there was suddenly an opposition to everything that was physical and I grew mad and did not want anyone there to see I was such a city boy, particularly while Jon\u2019s mother was looking at me with that blinding blue gaze of hers. I\u2019d make up my own mind when it would hurt, and if it should show or not, and I pushed the pain down into my body so my face would not gibe me away, and with arms raised I unrolled the reel and the wire ran out until I came to the end of the meadow, and there I put the reel down in the short stubble of the newly mown grass, the wire taut, all as calmly as I could and just as calmly straightened up and pushed my hands into my pockets and let my shoulders sink down.\" There are many references that add a feeling of substance and connection to the work, references to Dickens, Oedipus, Maigret, the River Styx. Petterson likes to mirror events and images. Being run off the road is used several times, crossing the river (Styx?) from one life to another, several watery baptisms. But while the imagery satisfies the thinness of Trond leaves one wanting something more. ...more I was sorry when I turned to the last page. And surprised--my right hand still held several pages of the book, and I hadn't realized they were the blank ones that often come at the end. I was sorry, because I wanted to spend more time in this space--rural Norway, mostly, with ventures into Oslo and Sweden. I wanted to spend more time with the narrator, Trond, whose name rarely emerges in the text and who we follow when he is fifteen and when he is sixty-seven, with ventures elsewhere in his life. I was sorry when I turned to the last page. And surprised--my right hand still held several pages of the book, and I hadn't realized they were the blank ones that often come at the end. I was sorry, because I wanted to spend more time in this space--rural Norway, mostly, with ventures into Oslo and Sweden. I wanted to spend more time with the narrator, Trond, whose name rarely emerges in the text and who we follow when he is fifteen and when he is sixty-seven, with ventures elsewhere in his life. It's the story of a man who, growing older and having suffered a terrible loss, retreats to an old cabin in the country. He tells no one where he's going, not even his daughters, who he loves, and not because he didn't want them to know, exactly, he just didn't think of it. The old cabin needs a great deal of work, especially as winter comes, and Trond welcomes it. He has a few neighbors, a dog, his Dickens novels, and it is in the middle of the night that he encounters one of those neighbors and comes to realize that this man was a child he'd known, a child from a family that figured meaningfully into his life during the summer of 1948, when he'd been a teenager. This was the summer the child had instigated a wrenching accident. This was the summer that Trond, who was staying with his father in rural Norway, first met the mysteries that would obsess him (and us readers) for his life. This is a wonderful book, and I love it. See for yourself: \"I could have paid a carpenter, I am far from skint,but then it would have gone too fast. I want to use the time it takes. Time is important tome now, I tell myself. Not that it should pass quickly or slowly, but be only time, be something I live inside and fill with physical things and activities that I can divide it up by, so that it grows distinct to me and does not vanish when I am not looking.\" I am particular impressed with how Petterson manages work in the novel: through physical tasks, the push-and-pull of the body as it cuts and mends and builds in the natural world, Petterson's reticent characters engage with one another and meet the sort of companionship that satisfies them best. And time: Petterson's collage of chronology plays like a human memory, feeding on associations and surprising juxtapositions, making the familiar revelatory. It is crafted of many long lines and leaps of moodiness and knowing. There is suspense and mystery in Out Stealing Horses--but it hardly moves like a step-by-step thriller; Petterson performs the writerly miracle of making mysterious what we already know has happened. And that \"what\" that has happened isn't itself easily defined, even as I can feel it's wait. It's rather like someone asked me \"what\" has happened in my life. I couldn't tell you. But I feel it's weight. In my own writing, I've felt challenged by writing a first-person narrator who is a quiet sort, inwardly-directed, hardly the sort to ramble on in any kind monologue, internal or not. Petterson shows how it can be done. See for yourself: \"I picked up the jug and poured a little milk into my cup. That made the coffee smoother and more like the light and not so strong, and I shut my eyes into a squint and looked across the water flowing past below the window, shining and glittering like a thousand stars, like the Milky Way could sometimes do in the autumn rushing foamingly on and winding through the night in an endless stream, and you could lie out there beside the fjord at home in the vast darkness with your back against the hard sloping rock gazing up until your eyes hurt, feeling the weight of the universe in all its immensity press down on your chest until you could scarcely breathe or on the contrary be lifted up and simply float away like a mere speck of human flesh in a limitless vacuum, never to return. Just thinking about it could make you vanish a little.\" This is the first <---A>Per Petterson</---A> book I've read. Hell, it's the first Norweigan book I've read, and many thanks to the Anne Born, the translator, and last year's Reading the World, which first brought it to my attention, for getting it into my hands. I'm hardly the only one who's noticed its worth: it's string of glowing reviews and honors include being one of the ten New York Times Book Review's 'notable books of the year,' the IMPAC Dublin Literary Award, the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize, the Norweigan Critics Prize, and so on. While I'm late to the wagon, it seems Europeans have been big fans of Petterson's writing for years. Is it worth all that? See for yourself. ...more My copy of Ut og stj\u00e6ler hester has a little tear in the dust-jacket, and when my girlfriend sees it she looks at me reproachfully, she respects books in a way I cannot, as physical objects, and she had bought me this elegant first edition as a present, but now I had carelessly used the dust-jacket to mark my page and put too much strain on the paper, it had not been important to me, for I respect books in my own way and was lost in the author's words, in his unique way of using the Norwegian la My copy of Ut og stj\u00e6ler hester has a little tear in the dust-jacket, and when my girlfriend sees it she looks at me reproachfully, she respects books in a way I cannot, as physical objects, and she had bought me this elegant first edition as a present, but now I had carelessly used the dust-jacket to mark my page and put too much strain on the paper, it had not been important to me, for I respect books in my own way and was lost in the author's words, in his unique way of using the Norwegian language, which to me is the most beautiful in the world, even though I do not speak it particularly well. \"You could have taken a bookmark from the pile, we have any number of them,\" my girlfriend says, and, full of remorse, I look on top of the bookcase in the corner of the kitchen and there are indeed several bookmarks diagonally over from the shelf where she has stacked the small frying pans, which must never be put in the dishwasher or scrubbed using a brush but only wiped gently with a soft cloth, and I choose a marker with a picture of Les jumeaux , the heavenly twins, that I remember buying last year at Percho, the artist's studio in Carouge, when the owner had told us shyly that she had just finished a major commission, a life-size ceramic cow which would stand outside the entrance to the Mandarin Oriental Hotel; and next time we visited the hotel to meet our Russian friend K, the cow was indeed there, in the bright naivist colors which Percho always uses, and I gave it a nod of recognition before we went in and ordered tea, which they bring with considerable ceremony in glass teapots over little spirit flames but always forget the milk, an astonishing omission for what is supposed to be a five-star establishment. Now, on the last day of 2015, I slide the laminated bookmark between the pages at the end of a chapter, for the book is so densely textured that I can only read one chapter at a time, and I think about how to review it, to convey to others its unusual charm, but I see there is no way, I can only talk about things and people, so I decide to do that, I read the final chapter and write down the text that has been quietly growing in my mind as I progressed through the book, almost without my realizing, and I post it and wish all my online friends a very happy New Year, it will have to be enough. ...more The only negative thing I can say \u2013 or, more accurately, am willing to say \u2013 about this novel is that it begs to be read by the fireplace, and not everybody has a fireplace. I don't have a fireplace. \u0631\u0648\u0627\u064a\u0629 \u0623\u0646\u064a\u0642\u0629\u060c \u0645\u062b\u0644 \u0644\u0648\u062d\u0629 \u0628\u062f\u064a\u0639\u0629 \u062a\u062a\u062d\u0631\u0643 \u0628\u062d\u0630\u0631 \u0628\u064a\u0646 \u0627\u0644\u0636\u0648\u0621 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0638\u0644\u060c \u0628\u064a\u0646 \u0645\u0627 \u064a\u0642\u0627\u0644 \u0635\u0631\u0627\u062d\u0629 \u0648\u0645\u0627 \u064a\u062a\u062c\u0627\u0648\u0632\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0631\u0627\u0648\u064a \u0639\u0645\u062f\u064b\u0627. \u0623\u062d\u0628\u0628\u062a \u0627\u0634\u062a\u063a\u0627\u0644\u0647 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0645\u0646\u0627\u0637\u0642 \u0627\u0644\u0635\u0645\u062a \u0648\u0642\u062f\u0631\u062a\u0647 \u0627\u0644\u0639\u0627\u0644\u064a\u0629 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0642\u0628\u0636 \u0639\u0644\u0649 \"\u0635\u0648\u062a \u0627\u0644\u0637\u0641\u0644\" \u0627\u0644\u0645\u0641\u0639\u0645 \u0628\u0627\u0644\u062a\u0633\u0627\u0624\u0644 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u062c\u0648\u0639 \u0625\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0641\u0647\u0645 \u0648\u0627\u0644\u0627\u062a\u0633\u0627\u0639. \u0647\u0646\u0627\u0643 \u0623\u064a\u0636\u0627 \u0627\u0644\u062d\u0636\u0648\u0631 \u0627\u0644\u063a\u0627\u0645\u0631 \u0644\u0644\u0645\u0643\u0627\u0646 \u0628\u0634\u0643\u0644 \u062d\u0633\u0651\u064a \u0648\u062d\u064a. \u0623\u0646\u062a \u0641\u0642\u0637 \u062a\u0642\u0631\u0631 \u0645\u062a\u0649 \u062a\u062a\u0648\u062c\u0639. As chilly as its Norwegian setting, Petterson's novel continues to haunt my thoughts weeks after reading it. Its very title and the many allusions to cowboy culture made me think about what frontier and re-invention means if the edge of the world is vast and dramatically sculpted desert that only ends with limitless ocean, or claustrophobic forest that transitions into Arctic ice. But mostly it made me think about no matter how much we think we know about others and ourselves, it's never complet As chilly as its Norwegian setting, Petterson's novel continues to haunt my thoughts weeks after reading it. Its very title and the many allusions to cowboy culture made me think about what frontier and re-invention means if the edge of the world is vast and dramatically sculpted desert that only ends with limitless ocean, or claustrophobic forest that transitions into Arctic ice. But mostly it made me think about no matter how much we think we know about others and ourselves, it's never complete nor definite. As Petterson writes, \"People like it when you tell them things, in suitable portions, in a modest, intimate tone, and they think they know you, but they do not, they know about you, for what they are let in on are facts, not feelings, not what your opinion is about anything at all, not how what has happened to you and how all the decisions you have made have turned you into who you are. What they do is fill in with their own feelings and assumptions, and they compose a new life which has precious little to do with yours, and that lets you off the hook. No one can touch you unless you yourself want them to. You only have to be polite and smile and keep paranoid thoughts at bay, because they will talk about you no matter how much you squirm, it is inevitable, and you would do the same thing yourself.\" My highest recommendation. ...more The Evocative title lured me into buying this book. It starts out as your typical autumn recalls the beginning of Summer type story as an older man, settling into a basic cottage by a lake in search of solitude (plainly a hard task, but someone has to do it) in southern Norway, hard by the border with Sweden recalls his youth in the same area. Some sexual tension as he recalls watching the deft fingered milkmaid at her work and the faded cotton dress clinging to the woman out helping a bunch of The Evocative title lured me into buying this book. It starts out as your typical autumn recalls the beginning of Summer type story as an older man, settling into a basic cottage by a lake in search of solitude (plainly a hard task, but someone has to do it) in southern Norway, hard by the border with Sweden recalls his youth in the same area. Some sexual tension as he recalls watching the deft fingered milkmaid at her work and the faded cotton dress clinging to the woman out helping a bunch of men and the narrator fell a stand of timber. Then abruptly with turn of a page we are in to another world. We're in the war, the narrator's father was involved in the resistance, couriering documents in and out of neutral Sweden. The thing about war is that it shifts relationships, particularly in these civil conflicts when there is an element of collaboration as well as resistance and after the war the narrator's family is abruptly broken up by a letter from the father declaring that we won't come home again but has left a sum of money in a country bank for his wife to collect from Sweden. This is a reflective book, in which the reader constructs the story as far as they can in their imagination, beyond the basic facts as above it is open to much interpretation. An excellent novel about chainsawing birch trees and decisions as mappable points in a life and deciding when something should hurt or not - in the narrator's case about forty years after the event. Very evocative, particularly about that way in which journeying to certain places literally takes us back into the past, something which I felt particularly strongly as a child when I was taken to my great grandfather's house and sat below his ticking clock until I might be allowed to clamber off and admire the half-wild cat (a fierce-some beast) in the garden or the panes of glass in his attic (left since he retired), or the empty pig stalls and generally the museum of a life left over from an earlier age (view spoiler) [ on one particularly happy occasion I was taken along to the milking parlour of one of Great grand-father's neighbour's, standing there watching the kine chew the cud as they were milked remains one of my abiding memories of deep peace (view spoiler) [ it probably helped that some passing adult gave me some chocolate to keep me quiet (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] . ...more Sumptuous Prose, but Largely Redundant Picking up this novel (translated from its original Norwegian), it is easy to understand why \u201cOut Stealing Horses\u201d has earned such high praise from critics; its author, Per Petterson, is a writer of astonishing talent. There are moments where his astute observations and beautiful descriptions sent chills down my spine. Petterson\u2019s depth of understanding for his main character, Trond, is palpable, and he is carefully rendered in an achingly believable portr Sumptuous Prose, but Largely Redundant Picking up this novel (translated from its original Norwegian), it is easy to understand why \u201cOut Stealing Horses\u201d has earned such high praise from critics; its author, Per Petterson, is a writer of astonishing talent. There are moments where his astute observations and beautiful descriptions sent chills down my spine. Petterson\u2019s depth of understanding for his main character, Trond, is palpable, and he is carefully rendered in an achingly believable portrait of an aging, grieving man. The novel\u2019s setting gets an equally loving respect from Petterson, whose description of Norway\u2019s trees, rivers, and skies should do wonders for the country\u2019s tourism (\u201cI shut my eyes into a squint and looked across the water flowing past below the window, shining and glittering like a thousand stars, like the Milky Way could sometimes do in the autumn rushing foamingly on and winding through the night in an endless stream\u201d). I would compare Petterson\u2019s writing to the heart aching beauty of Pulitzer Prize winner Marilynne Robinson\u2019s prose (her novel \u201cHousekeeping\u201d is every bit as poetic and haunting as this one). The problem I have with this otherwise stellar book is that I feel like I\u2019ve read it before \u2013 many times at that. \u201cOut Stealing Horses\u201d finds Trond Sander living in a self-inflicted isolation as he heads into his twilight years. He has given up his former life for a solitary existence partially out of a life-long yearning to be left alone, but mostly out of grief for the sudden death of his beloved wife three years earlier. But when he realizes that his neighbor is a figure from his past it triggers a host of feelings and memories that Trond has been trying to avoid for a long time, and in flashbacks we are taken back with him to the summer of his fifteenth year \u2013 a summer that forever altered the course of his life, where friendly games of stealing horses gave way to tragedy and coming of age. Petterson acquits himself well enough in the unspooling of the narrative, but anyone who has ever read a Booker Prize winning novel will find the premise a little too familiar (\u201cThe God of Small Things,\u201d \u201cThe Sea,\u201d and \u201cThe Gathering,\u201d to name only a few, all have a similar premise with the main character reflecting on their tragic past). But the real shame of it is that \u201cOut Stealing Horses\u201d peters out in the climax, leaving it without the oomph that might have distinguished it from those novels. And what we are left with is a painfully standard story told with stunningly beautiful writing. I wanted to like the novel more than I did because of Petterson\u2019s talent as a writer, but the truth is that I just couldn\u2019t shake the boredom in the end. Which is quite a shame, because Petterson has a lot more to offer. Grade: C+ ...more We have had a death in the family which has meant stopping almost everything to pay my respects to Death and Time. I don't know how long they'll be right in the house like this. Maybe until the Peak Freans run out, or until some illuminating memory shakes out of the vault to make sense of the whole; a snow globe marked 'Souvenir of Life on Earth', the light hidden in those falling fake metallic flakes. I do know that whatever it is, Death and TIme will return to their place on the back burner to We have had a death in the family which has meant stopping almost everything to pay my respects to Death and Time. I don't know how long they'll be right in the house like this. Maybe until the Peak Freans run out, or until some illuminating memory shakes out of the vault to make sense of the whole; a snow globe marked 'Souvenir of Life on Earth', the light hidden in those falling fake metallic flakes. I do know that whatever it is, Death and TIme will return to their place on the back burner to be taken for granted again like breath itself. So what do you read when the geese are flying over, the leaves are turning, and Time is cleaning your mirrors? I happened to be reading 'the Norwegian book about the father and son'. And I couldn't have been reading a more perfect book for this time. Perhaps that's the recommendation right there; that this book could stand up to this time. It did not become too frivolous so that I had to set it aside, nor was it too complicated or difficult. It had no trickery and very little ego. The truths in this book are stated as sparely and simply as one of Sibelius' piano works, each piece of time whole in itself and then set down in just the right spot until it makes sense to the adult son and the reader. What the son finds out is that there is more than one order for time. There is the order in which it was lived, the order it is remembered (which is often on shuffle), and the special order that is like a puzzle. Work it, and it gives you the big picture, or at least the forest for the trees. Like the characters, the woods have a strong, resinous presence in this book. \"...and the wet boggy moss and the sweet, sharp, all-pervading odour of something greater than ourselves and beyond our comprehension; of the forest, which just went on and on to the north and into Sweden and over to Finland and further on the whole way to Siberia, and you could get lost in this forest and a hundred people go searching for weeks without a chance of finding you, and why should that be so bad, I wondered, to get lost here? But I did not know then how serious that thought was.\" I know those woods. They go to the tree-line and as spare as this book is, he leaves nothing out. There is some logging in this book, Stihl portraits that never get overwrought or silly. He really leaves nothing out. My high opinion of this book may be due to the time I read it, but I don't think so. ...more As I said in an update, this book has some of the most effortless to read prose I've ever encountered, but also seems very worth re-reading. This story of a father and son's relationship, linked by mentions of the titular phrase, holds so much emotion: love, loss, pain, regret, hope and hopelessness, moments of overwhelming joy followed by inevitable sadness. I found the earlier part of the book absolutely poetic, the latter less so....but I'm unsure if that was the book (the story) or me and my As I said in an update, this book has some of the most effortless to read prose I've ever encountered, but also seems very worth re-reading. This story of a father and son's relationship, linked by mentions of the titular phrase, holds so much emotion: love, loss, pain, regret, hope and hopelessness, moments of overwhelming joy followed by inevitable sadness. I found the earlier part of the book absolutely poetic, the latter less so....but I'm unsure if that was the book (the story) or me and my reading and feelings. There is a deep sadness about the book in spite of the moments of joy. I definitely will re-read this book to feel it again and experience Trond's life again. I too wish we knew a bit more about those middle years of his life but would I feel the same about this book and Trond if all was filled in? Trond seems to have given us the central mysteries of his life. ...more a third of the way through and i was certain i'd give this book four or five stars... spare, strong sentences, a jumping chronology, meandering, mysterious... i loved it. and had it remained how it had started -- that is, a book of sketches strung together by a common element -- i would have loved it... but it doesn't. in a way, i think, petterson lacks confidence in his own abilities: he introduces certain plot elements i found wholly unnecessary (not to mention an incredibly anti-climactic res a third of the way through and i was certain i'd give this book four or five stars... spare, strong sentences, a jumping chronology, meandering, mysterious... i loved it. and had it remained how it had started -- that is, a book of sketches strung together by a common element -- i would have loved it... but it doesn't. in a way, i think, petterson lacks confidence in his own abilities: he introduces certain plot elements i found wholly unnecessary (not to mention an incredibly anti-climactic resolution) that work to undermine the great sections of the book and reduce the entirety of the whole. he should have gone the dubliners route -- or something along the lines of william maxwell's so long, see you tomorrow ... ...more H\u00e5vard Vikhagen (n. 1952) - Pintor (Out Stealing Horses (Ut og stj\u00e6le hester)) Uma hist\u00f3ria evocativa e nost\u00e1lgica de um regresso \u00e0s origens - dominada pelos sentimentos humanos e condicionada por uma floresta deslumbrante. Magistral... \"Toda a minha vida ansiei por estar sozinho num lugar como este. Mesmo quando tudo corria bem, como era frequente acontecer. Bem que o posso dizer. Tenho dito sorte. Mas mesmo nessas alturas, por exemplo a meio de um abra\u00e7o e quando algu\u00e9m me sussurrava ao ouvido H\u00e5vard Vikhagen (n. 1952) - Pintor (Out Stealing Horses (Ut og stj\u00e6le hester)) Uma hist\u00f3ria evocativa e nost\u00e1lgica de um regresso \u00e0s origens - dominada pelos sentimentos humanos e condicionada por uma floresta deslumbrante. Magistral... \"Toda a minha vida ansiei por estar sozinho num lugar como este. Mesmo quando tudo corria bem, como era frequente acontecer. Bem que o posso dizer. Tenho dito sorte. Mas mesmo nessas alturas, por exemplo a meio de um abra\u00e7o e quando algu\u00e9m me sussurrava ao ouvido palavras que queria ouvir, podia sentir de repente um anseio por me encontrar num local onde existe apenas sil\u00eancio.\" (P\u00e1g. 71) \"Mem\u00f3rias dolorosas de uma juventude long\u00ednqua. Trond Sander, reformado aos sessenta e sete anos, foge de Oslo, sem bens e sem compromissos, procurando o isolamento numa cabana no interior remoto da Noruega, imersa numa paisagem buc\u00f3lica, verdejante e g\u00e9lida. Trond acredita \"que somos n\u00f3s que modelamos as nossas vidas, de qualquer maneira, eu modelei a minha, valha o que valer, e assumo toda a responsabilidade.\" (P\u00e1g. 74) \"As pessoas gostam quando lhe dizemos coisas, em por\u00e7\u00f5es adequadas, num tom modesto e \u00edntimo, e pensam que nos conhecem, mas n\u00e3o conhecem, sabem coisas a \"nosso\" respeito, pois aquilo que os deixamos saber s\u00e3o factos, n\u00e3o sentimentos, nada acerca das nossas opini\u00f5es, n\u00e3o aquilo que nos aconteceu nem como todas as decis\u00f5es que tom\u00e1mos nos transformaram naquilo que somos.\" (P\u00e1g. 79) ...more \"You decide yourself when it will hurt.\" Pet Petterson's novel about a man in late middle age who has exiled himself to a cottage in the remote Norwegian countryside has garnered literary prizes and rave reviews almost everywhere. I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I was... well, underwhelmed. I confess I'm an aficionado of bleak fiction, of those sour almost hopeless ruminations on the fate of age and solitude that might fill more cheery readers with despair. So I was expecting to savor Out Ste \"You decide yourself when it will hurt.\" Pet Petterson's novel about a man in late middle age who has exiled himself to a cottage in the remote Norwegian countryside has garnered literary prizes and rave reviews almost everywhere. I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I was... well, underwhelmed. I confess I'm an aficionado of bleak fiction, of those sour almost hopeless ruminations on the fate of age and solitude that might fill more cheery readers with despair. So I was expecting to savor Out Stealing Horses . But at the end, despite the beautiful writing, I was struck by a slight sense of inconsequence. According to the blurb on the back, Amy Tan finished the book \"with an exhalation of awe.\" I only exhaled. That said, this book does cast a kind of spell over you as you read, and many of its scenes flood the shadows of your mind with a silent, sepia-toned beauty. ...more This is lovely. Very compressed language. Funny how that comes through even in translation (from the Norwegian). At certain points the novel suggests all that is good about Hemingway's \"Big Two-Hearted River,\" which is not to say it's derivative, not at all; just that Petterson knows his Hemingway. The narrative flashes between past and present. A 67 year old man has moved to rural Norway, away from Oslo after the death of his second wife, and settled in a lakeside village. His children, two dau This is lovely. Very compressed language. Funny how that comes through even in translation (from the Norwegian). At certain points the novel suggests all that is good about Hemingway's \"Big Two-Hearted River,\" which is not to say it's derivative, not at all; just that Petterson knows his Hemingway. The narrative flashes between past and present. A 67 year old man has moved to rural Norway, away from Oslo after the death of his second wife, and settled in a lakeside village. His children, two daughters, are grown. His way of life is stoic, in the purest sense: plain food, water, basic shelter and clothing, and a closeness to nature instilled in him during a summer in the region in 1948. The narrative flashes effortlessly between that glorious coming of age summer and the present day. In some sense the two eras impinge on each other, refract each other, in fascinating ways. It is not a written document we read but rather the very orderly thoughts of a man moved to what he thinks of as his final lodging. He is happy to be back in the natural world after a long spell in Oslo where he raised a family, owned a firm of some kind. The landscape is a big part of the story and it is always beautifully integrated with the action. Nothing seems extraneous. The translation works by way of the comma splice, leaving the period for stronger impact. As Virginia Woolf said somewhere in her essays, I paraphrase, writing is all about rhythm. Well, we certainly get that sense here. The language is sinuous and lean and perfectly freighted; that is to say, it seems neither overly nor under burdened by detail. Other comments here have everything you need to know about plot. Highly recommended. ...more http://msarki.tumblr.com/post/8630462... Just a marvelous book, paced so lovely, and the telling of the tale so interesting to me. The back and forth between the past and the present accomplished so adroitly that I was simply amazed at Petterson\u2019s talent I had previous to this book been admittedly embarrassingly unaware of. I think what made this novel feel so important to me is the narrator\u2019s age of sixty-seven and how after a successful career, a couple wives, two kids and on, he decides to retu http://msarki.tumblr.com/post/8630462... Just a marvelous book, paced so lovely, and the telling of the tale so interesting to me. The back and forth between the past and the present accomplished so adroitly that I was simply amazed at Petterson\u2019s talent I had previous to this book been admittedly embarrassingly unaware of. I think what made this novel feel so important to me is the narrator\u2019s age of sixty-seven and how after a successful career, a couple wives, two kids and on, he decides to return alone to the woods and make a home for himself and his dog to live out the rest of his days in solitude.\u00a0 His long life spent as a white-collar businessman he now relies on his experience of past summers as a teenager visiting his father at a remote cabin and all the physical work and rugged life spent outdoors helping to hone his now-necessary survival skills. He is pleased at how much he remembers from that time with his father and uses the lessons well as he gets on quite well out there despite his advancing age. But solitude additionally affords him much time to also contemplate his past, and then an old acquaintance from those long ago summers surprisingly ends up being his next door neighbor which adds to the tension as the narrator Trond relates to the reader his vividly poignant memories. There is mystery present throughout the entire novel and this is something other reviewers found objectionable. I believe the vague and out-of-reach characters of his memory add to the contemplative nature of what Trond is attempting to do in his old age. Every person in the book whether it be his summer friend Jon who was responsible for the rifle accident that took his younger brother\u2019s life, Lar\u2019s the surviving twin who actually shot his brother dead as a little boy while they were both left unattended, Trond\u2019s father who was having an affair with the grieving mother, the mother herself, and even Trond's own mother, all of them a clouded image as in memory and none of them clear to us or to Trond from which to figure anything out. The awful world war that Trond\u2019s father was a part of and he who played such a brave and significant role in the Norwegian resistance to the Nazis was also a backdrop for how his father met this mother of the boys in the first place while working together secretly as couriers against the Nazi occupiers of their country. I think the dreamlike image of all these character helped to provide the out-of-focus consideration of the narrator's past and what it meant to him now that he was distanced from the city's humanity while establishing a warm and comfortable life by his own hand while surviving in a harsh but natural environment.\u00a0 I cannot praise Petterson's method more highly and how he significantly reached me by his words. The translator also must have done a very good job as I was completely engaged with the book from beginning to end. Another complaint I have read regarding this novel was there ultimately was no answer given to any question of a memory presented by the narrator, and there rarely is anyway. Generally, acceptance is as much as we can hope for, and that is not by my lights an unacceptable conclusion at all. \u00a0I was so comfortable not being in the presence of contrived or trite actions, and even the accidental death by leaving a loaded gun in the vicinity of unattended children actually happens all of the time. And nothing was made much of anything, though it typically is, and I found that to be a refreshing method used by Petterson as well. There is good and bad in everything and Per Petterson skillfully makes use of this fact throughout the entire book. I found the novel not only a page turner, but also a rich and rewarding experience I hope to savor for quite some time. Though this was my first introduction to any work by Per Petterson, I am positive there will be more to come in the very near future. ...more A quiet, reflective novel of one man's attempt to understand and escape from a deep sadness he has carried with him since he was a child. Alone in a remote cabin with the harsh Norway winter fast approaching, Trond searches for a way to explain a single, piercing childhood tragedy that has echoed hauntingly throughout his life. As the focus of the novel shifts seamlessly between a summer Trond spent working with his father and the silent time he now spends alone in his cold, tiny cabin, the deta A quiet, reflective novel of one man's attempt to understand and escape from a deep sadness he has carried with him since he was a child. Alone in a remote cabin with the harsh Norway winter fast approaching, Trond searches for a way to explain a single, piercing childhood tragedy that has echoed hauntingly throughout his life. As the focus of the novel shifts seamlessly between a summer Trond spent working with his father and the silent time he now spends alone in his cold, tiny cabin, the details of his tragedy and its lasting effects are slowly drawn into focus. My favorite thing about Out Stealing Horses is the quiet precision of Trond's voice: he speaks in a careful, injured tone, but there's also a defiant gruffness there that somehow fails to disguise his long struggle to understand the rejection he suffered as a boy. I also like the way that Petterson uses seasons to tell his story: Trond's memories of a warm summer spent working with his father contrast sharply with the dark and terrible winter he sees overwhelming the land from his lonely cabin window. Perhaps my only problem with the novel is that most of the plot depends on a coincidence that seemed a bit too improbable, but it's really a minor complaint in the shadow of such a beautiful story. It might just be that I'm a sucker for these novels about quiet old men reflecting solemnly on the events of their lives, but I really enjoyed this one and I'm definitely planning on reading it again some day. Out Stealing Horses is the kind of novel that stays with you and grows in your mind long after you've finished it, and I can see it being even stronger the second time around. 4.5/5 ...more having finished : The story grew on me as it began to center more on the father-son relationship, but I did not fall in love... I liked how it was structured, I liked the evocation of landscape and season, but the characters were shadowy for me and it never reached the point of intensity that I wanted it to...that was perhaps the point: not to, to have many small flickers of light instead of one really bright & intense one, but it's what I wanted. I wanted less shadowy characters--for at least having finished : The story grew on me as it began to center more on the father-son relationship, but I did not fall in love... I liked how it was structured, I liked the evocation of landscape and season, but the characters were shadowy for me and it never reached the point of intensity that I wanted it to...that was perhaps the point: not to, to have many small flickers of light instead of one really bright & intense one, but it's what I wanted. I wanted less shadowy characters--for at least one of them not to be*--I wanted to believe in the narrator more than I did. I don't know finally how much was due to translation, how much difference a better translation would have made: maybe 4 stars (for this reader) instead of 3 or the 3.5 I'd give it. It was a very literary novel finally. I wanted it to be a bit more visceral. (I realize: the narrator is 67, he's looking back on his life...it's a meditative novel...but still). *interestingly, it occurs to me: there is one very intense character: Jon, and he's fascinating, but he disappears very early on. halfway through : Have been trying to figure out what's been bothering me about this book. On the one hand I like it, I love the story...on the other hand, something about the tone irks me. It's occurred to me that my reaction to the novel could be in large part because of its translation. This is a translator who rarely (except in dialogue) uses contractions. So, almost all of the first-person narration is written without contractions even though that isn't how most of us speak or think. It's incredibly stilted and feels mock-solemn. Example (granted, the passage I chose is a solemn one): But that is not what Lars means. Maybe he has seen one of those pictures, it is entirely possible, but that is not what he means. He has recognised me, as I have recognised him. It is more than fifty years ago, we were just children then, he was ten and I still fifteen and still frightened of everything that went on around me, which I did not understand even though I knew I was close enough to reach out my hand as far as I could, and then maybe reach the whole way and know the whole meaning of it all....Now more than fifty years later he sits directly opposite me at the table and knows who I am, and I have nothing to say to that. It is not an accusation, though it rather feels like one, nor is it a question, so I do not need to answer. But if I do not say anything it will all get terribly silent and difficult. (95). Here's how I might write it: But that is not what Lars means. Maybe he's seen one of those pictures, it's entirely possible, but that isn't what he means. He has recognised me, as I have recognised him. It was more than fifty years ago, we were just children then, he was ten and I still fifteen... I am wondering about the original: what's the tone like in Norwegian? Is it also so stilted, overly formal? (Manny? help me out here?) ...more Per Petterson trusts me. I felt this with some satisfaction while reading Out Stealing Horses. He unfolds his story with no unnecessary signposts or reminders or references, trusting that his reader will care enough to gather up every quiet detail as it is shared and infer those that didn\u2019t need to be put down. It is a simple story with many pieces that never snap together so much as they are smoothed into place with time, just as the narrator\u2019s memories are. His power of description is sad and Per Petterson trusts me. I felt this with some satisfaction while reading Out Stealing Horses. He unfolds his story with no unnecessary signposts or reminders or references, trusting that his reader will care enough to gather up every quiet detail as it is shared and infer those that didn\u2019t need to be put down. It is a simple story with many pieces that never snap together so much as they are smoothed into place with time, just as the narrator\u2019s memories are. His power of description is sad and beautiful. He describes local, dated methods baling hay and rolling logs that I have never seen but can almost perform in my mind from his from his description. And he has made me aware of moments like the \u201cblue hour\u201d when it seems \u201cas if the tinted air binds the world together and there is nothing disconnected out there.\u201d I\u2019ve passed through many of these hours before, but now I watch for it every night and am grateful to PP for this. ...more No doubt Out Stealing Horses has been reviewed thus: Too many long sentences. Or, to put it another way, Who does he think he is, anyway, this Per Petterson, with his immodestly large sentences that have no inkling when to end, no brakes, no sensitivity to the situation of the poor reader who has drawn the most enormous amount of oxygen into their lungs, sucking it in until fit to burst, face red and bulging, in order to start at the beginning and be able to go through right to the end of just one No doubt Out Stealing Horses has been reviewed thus: Too many long sentences. Or, to put it another way, Who does he think he is, anyway, this Per Petterson, with his immodestly large sentences that have no inkling when to end, no brakes, no sensitivity to the situation of the poor reader who has drawn the most enormous amount of oxygen into their lungs, sucking it in until fit to burst, face red and bulging, in order to start at the beginning and be able to go through right to the end of just one of these sentences which one could call indecently long in their unconcern for the reader, gasping for air again when the end of one of these sentences is finally reached, because after all Petterson is no Shakespeare, and certainly no JK Rowling, who might have the right to inflict such sentences upon their readers. Who does he think he is? But for me it is like this: rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre... ...more 2.5 stars Out stealing horses is a book that I have wanted to read for a long time but just had a hunch that it was not for me and the hunch was correct. This is a quiet but thought provoking sort of novel and tells the story of Trond a vigorous 67 year old residing in rural Norway. He is a loner and has withdrawn from the world. The writing in this book is beautiful and I loved some of the descriptions in the novel but the story is more a study of character than plot and as much as I enjoyed the w 2.5 stars Out stealing horses is a book that I have wanted to read for a long time but just had a hunch that it was not for me and the hunch was correct. This is a quiet but thought provoking sort of novel and tells the story of Trond a vigorous 67 year old residing in rural Norway. He is a loner and has withdrawn from the world. The writing in this book is beautiful and I loved some of the descriptions in the novel but the story is more a study of character than plot and as much as I enjoyed the writing I really did not get a sense of time or place from this novel which I had thought I would. By by the time I had finished the book I felt I was ready to move on as this was just one of those books that didn't make an impression on me. I would love to have read this as a book club read as I think its a deep book that would really throw up good discussion which might make me appreciate it more. ...more The atmospheres created by northern landscapes have always held a strong attraction for me. Whether by personal exposure or when represented in paintings, music or literature, the vastness of space, rugged coastlines, deep dark forests and, above all, the crystal clear colours brought on by the specific climates, their lure can be ever so powerful. In Per Petterson's OUT STEALING HORSES sixty-seven year old Trond Sander is profoundly drawn to such a place: he leaves Oslo and settles in a remote The atmospheres created by northern landscapes have always held a strong attraction for me. Whether by personal exposure or when represented in paintings, music or literature, the vastness of space, rugged coastlines, deep dark forests and, above all, the crystal clear colours brought on by the specific climates, their lure can be ever so powerful. In Per Petterson's OUT STEALING HORSES sixty-seven year old Trond Sander is profoundly drawn to such a place: he leaves Oslo and settles in a remote cabin somewhere in north-eastern Norway. Skilfully portrayed by the author, the character superbly fits the environment: he is somebody who responds completely to that lure of tranquility, the promise of harmony with his surroundings that gives time for contemplation of his life and keeps him occupied with the daily chores required to fix up the very basic cabin he had bought. And finally, he may also find some answer to a question that has been with him ever since one summer vacation in a comparable place when he was fifteen years old... Trond Sander has all the time in the world now, as he ponderously goes through the daily chores of a self-sufficient hermit. Time is taking a different meaning for him as he reflects early on: Time is important to me now, I tell myself. Not that it should pass quickly or slowly, but be only time, be something I live inside and fill with physical things and activities that I can divide it by, so that it grows distinct to me and does not vanish when I am not looking. An encounter in the middle of the night with another apparent recluse, who lives down the river, annoys him initially as an interruption of his private time. Yet, when he realizes who the man isk, his peace of mind is disrupted in a fundamental way. Memories come to the fore that were long buried in his mind, or were they really? The reader is transported into a narrative that alternates between Trond's descriptions of daily activities in the here and now and the events during the summer vacation with his father when he was fifteen. Delicate in its description, the reader is inescapably drawn to Trond and his surroundings. There are allusions to the reasons for his father's surprising familiarity with the small village... While father and son have a close relationship in many ways, there is a certain verbal awkwardness between them and it needs an intermediary to explain to the son what the father is and was all about. Strange? Maybe, but it completely matches the impression the reader develops of the central characters. Trond, now with the hindsight of some fifty years, can make more sense of events of the past. From the outset his present day reflections are interspersed with subtle hints to the past and, once the reader knows the story and goes back to read the beginning a second time, they will fall into place perfectly. Will he be able to answer that one life-long question? Well, maybe. Petterson's language is spare and efficient in its use of imagery and evocation of atmospheres, both internal and external to his protagonist. While it is correct, as other reviewers have stated, that very little happens in the novel and the story unfolds ever so slowly, a reader like myself is easily fascinated by the character and completely drawn into the two sets of situations, past and present. With a narration style that leaves the reader to ponder, compare, and visualize, and fill in mental spaces, Petterson has achieved a remarkable work of fiction. ...more In a year, when someone mentions that they are reading this book, I'll say \"yeah, I read that\", but I will not be able to recall anything about it. Other than its mood. It resides somewhere on the same bookshelf as Tinkers , a shelf covered in frost and nostalgia and sadness. Both Out Stealing Horses and Tinkers feature an old man remembering his life of hardships. They exude a tone more so than they present a plot - the tone of human isolation and quiet reflection. But unfortunately for me, that' In a year, when someone mentions that they are reading this book, I'll say \"yeah, I read that\", but I will not be able to recall anything about it. Other than its mood. It resides somewhere on the same bookshelf as Tinkers , a shelf covered in frost and nostalgia and sadness. Both Out Stealing Horses and Tinkers feature an old man remembering his life of hardships. They exude a tone more so than they present a plot - the tone of human isolation and quiet reflection. But unfortunately for me, that's the extent of what I got out of it. Much like Tinkers , this book is well written, but not impeccably written. While it is sometimes insightful, it is too self-consciously literary. I can't read this book without imagining the author reading it to me in his soothing, accented voice, standing at a podium with a warm mug of Earl Grey in a turtleneck. Every time a cliche or improbable development occurs in his story, he takes a moment to say something like, \"that kind of coincidence seems far-fetched in fiction, in modern novels anyway, and I find it hard to accept\" - just to make sure the reader knows that he purposefully made a mistake, or what seems like a mistake. But I feel like I'm being hard on it. The first two chapters are remarkable. They present a symmetry between the old man and his younger self and allow the rest of the novel to unfold like a mystery - what events led this kid to becoming this isolated old man? (Though it becomes clear as you read on that the last thing Petterson is trying to do is solve or even present a mystery.) And the second chapter contains the greatest expression of seething, repressed emotion that I can think of at the moment. But the rest of the book felt like an anticlimax to the book's exciting beginning. ...more N\u00e3o se fiem no titulo do livro. Pode n\u00e3o augurar nada de especial, mas rapidamente se d\u00e1 pelo engano. O que temos \u00e9 uma hist\u00f3ria de vida contada com muita sensibilidade, oscilando entre o presente e o passado, num cen\u00e1rio de uma Noruega remota e agreste: fiordes, florestas a cheirar a musgo e resina, vida selvagem \u00e0 porta de casa, neve, vento, chuva gelada. Um melanc\u00f3lico regresso ao passado; \u00e0 perda da inoc\u00eancia e \u00e0 descoberta de novos sentimentos. O primeiro contacto com a morte, a culpa, a pe N\u00e3o se fiem no titulo do livro. Pode n\u00e3o augurar nada de especial, mas rapidamente se d\u00e1 pelo engano. O que temos \u00e9 uma hist\u00f3ria de vida contada com muita sensibilidade, oscilando entre o presente e o passado, num cen\u00e1rio de uma Noruega remota e agreste: fiordes, florestas a cheirar a musgo e resina, vida selvagem \u00e0 porta de casa, neve, vento, chuva gelada. Um melanc\u00f3lico regresso ao passado; \u00e0 perda da inoc\u00eancia e \u00e0 descoberta de novos sentimentos. O primeiro contacto com a morte, a culpa, a perda do que se considerava adquirido e aprender a perdoar. Por tudo isto passou a personagem principal num \u00fanico Ver\u00e3o de f\u00e9rias. Foi o \u00faltimo degrau entre a adolesc\u00eancia e a idade adulta. Muitos anos depois, \u00e9 o regresso \u00e0 mesma regi\u00e3o numa op\u00e7\u00e3o por uma vida mais isolada. Numa confiss\u00e3o intimista e honesta d\u00e1-se reconcilia\u00e7\u00e3o com o passado, numa idade em que j\u00e1 n\u00e3o fica mal assumir as fragilidades. Um reencontro com as mem\u00f3rias, as m\u00e1goas, e o poder curativo do tempo a dizer que nunca \u00e9 tarde para fazer as pazes com a vida e aqueles que amamos. ...more This slender yet powerful book is one to read and reread. Following the death of his second wife when he \"lost interest in talking to people,\" the aging narrator, Trond, has retired to a remote forest-village in Norway. When his nearest neighbor turns out to be a figure from his past, from a summer spent with his father which shaped the rest of his life, Trond\u2019s memories begin to churn, despite attempts to lose himself in the details of surviving in his new environment (wood-chopping, shopping, This slender yet powerful book is one to read and reread. Following the death of his second wife when he \"lost interest in talking to people,\" the aging narrator, Trond, has retired to a remote forest-village in Norway. When his nearest neighbor turns out to be a figure from his past, from a summer spent with his father which shaped the rest of his life, Trond\u2019s memories begin to churn, despite attempts to lose himself in the details of surviving in his new environment (wood-chopping, shopping, cooking, dog-walking). He is forced to sort through a series of traumatic war-time events, both personal and political, that led to his father abandoning the family \u2013 and find a way to prevent himself repeating that pattern. The book is a sort of \"unending conversation\" in Trond\u2019s mind, as he looks back on past losses and reflects on his coming old age. One of the best things about Out Stealing Horses is the narrator\u2019s unassuming voice, which belies the force and intensity of the memories conjured up. It\u2019s the calm, deliberate voice of someone I\u2019d like to know better. Another notable aspect of this fairly amazing book is what one reviewer referred to as \u201cthe consolations of landscape.\u201d The quiet setting (snowy forest, river, lake, remote village) is a profound presence in this novel, yielding the tranquility that allows Trond to remember and understand \u2013 you feel it yourself as you read the author\u2019s lovely descriptions. Also impressive is the author\u2019s ability to pass back and forth in time with undisturbed continuity. Adding to that, he draws parallels both subtle and obvious between past and present, which helps keep the narrative tightly bound. Finally, this book is filled with wonderful sentences \u2013 sentences that do the work of many. There is a purity to his prose, and I found myself reading certain passages over and over as I came across them and flipping back to find them again later. Here\u2019s a sample from the first chapter: \"Time is important to me now, I tell myself. Not that it should pass quickly or slowly, but be only time, be something I live inside and fill with physical things and activities that I can divide it up by, so that it grows distinct to me and does not vanish when I am not looking.\" I was sorry to turn the last page of Out Stealing Horses , and I know I will return to this lovely, impactful book. It is easy for me to recommend this one, especially to those who know what it means to seek solitude \u2013 the overwhelming beauty of being in a place \"where there is only silence\" and the risk of allowing time to \"merely pass as you let others do the moving.\" ...more You know when books have a flavor? This had a European flavor. The author is Norwegian whose very Scandinavian characters, Trond and Lars, create a feeling akin to those I had watching films at the International Cinema during college, only in book form. The book doesn't happen in black and white, at least not quite, but there was a definite filter on my mind's lens. Subdued. Cold. Detached. Serious. Unexplained. Unemotional. Unhappy. What more could you ask for in a book, right? As dreary as I am You know when books have a flavor? This had a European flavor. The author is Norwegian whose very Scandinavian characters, Trond and Lars, create a feeling akin to those I had watching films at the International Cinema during college, only in book form. The book doesn't happen in black and white, at least not quite, but there was a definite filter on my mind's lens. Subdued. Cold. Detached. Serious. Unexplained. Unemotional. Unhappy. What more could you ask for in a book, right? As dreary as I am making it sound, there are a lot of really good things that happen in this novel. First of all, I love the title. It's more complicated than it seems after the first chapter, and I love it when titles are layered. Secondly, I think melancholy books about fathers and sons totally works. Men are such an unemotional lot, and the contained longing this older man has for the last summer he spent with his father is poignant. Finally, there is an excellent quote. Many a book is supported by a few good quotes. I don't know if this will pass the test of time, but it should: \"You decide for yourself when it will hurt.\" Can you feel the testosterone? They may be driving Volvos instead of trucks, but this is a book about men. And because I like men, and am curious by just how much they are not like me, I really enjoyed this book. ...more Reading Petterson\u2019s highly praised book, I kept thinking how much like Scandinavia it seemed. Of course, the fact that it\u2019s set in Norway is what triggered this thought. But there are other parallels, too: a kind of natural beauty that applies to both the writing and to the scenery described, episodes of darkness that depict the narrator\u2019s melancholy as well as the long winter nights, and stoicism in the face of it all, with hints that more may be going on than is often expressed or observed. Tro Reading Petterson\u2019s highly praised book, I kept thinking how much like Scandinavia it seemed. Of course, the fact that it\u2019s set in Norway is what triggered this thought. But there are other parallels, too: a kind of natural beauty that applies to both the writing and to the scenery described, episodes of darkness that depict the narrator\u2019s melancholy as well as the long winter nights, and stoicism in the face of it all, with hints that more may be going on than is often expressed or observed. Trond is the central character. We hear his practical observations and poignant reflections as a man in his late sixties. He also tells us about the summer of 1948 when he was 15 years old and living in a cabin with his father. It\u2019s a coming of age story with a having come of age perspective to boot. Both parts are done well. The alternating viewpoints are effective, never contrived. There are enough big events to drive the plot forward, but there\u2019s plenty of thinking about it all, too. That\u2019s a pretty good trick for a book less than 300 pages long. In it we get a real sense of the complicated feelings Trond has for his father. We also see how certain things are just inherently hard to discuss. Fortunately, old Norwegian narrators can share wise thoughts through more than just dialogue. ...more Review to come. Jeg har visst forelsket meg i Pettersons b\u00f8ker. Vi liker de samme tingene: Dickens. Hunder. Hester. Skildringer av kroppsarbeid og skog. Andre verdenskrig. Det er ekstremt godt skrevet ogs\u00e5, men jeg merker at jeg liker det bedre enn andre ekstremt godt skrevne b\u00f8ker, fordi han tar seg tid til flere turer med hunden i sn\u00f8en i l\u00f8pet av romanen, og jeg kunne egentlig nesten lest en bok bare om det. Out Stealing Horses is a book one doesnt read for the plot but for the pleasure of reading itself. There is hardly any action taking place, not much of a plot to speak of and the narrative is unhurried, reflective and focused on the background of events taking place. It has impressionistic qualities. Petterson describes very vividly forests, the nature, snow-covered houses at a distance to use it as a way of describing feelings. Emotions that fill the whole book but he does not write about them Out Stealing Horses is a book one doesnt read for the plot but for the pleasure of reading itself. There is hardly any action taking place, not much of a plot to speak of and the narrative is unhurried, reflective and focused on the background of events taking place. It has impressionistic qualities. Petterson describes very vividly forests, the nature, snow-covered houses at a distance to use it as a way of describing feelings. Emotions that fill the whole book but he does not write about them directly, one has to see through the metaphors (aka the nature and their different \"moods\") for discovering them. The writing itself is sparse and precise and Petterson manage to bring into single sentences different actions of the characters without overloading them. The tone is often laconic, melancholic (but never bleak), full with heavy undertones of meaning. In fact there are two different voices of Trond, our main character. The one where he is sunken in memories, reflective and moody and the other is lighter, full of self-conciousness and ready to face the world. Here you go: our \"hero\" Trond at the age of 60 is living a solitary life in the Norwegian woods, literally in the middle of nowhere. He chooses the solitude voluntarily, or so he thinks. It is a cold winter, not an unusual but rather common one, still there are problems but Trond prides himself with dealing with them himself and value \"activity\". In the middle of the night one of his very few neighbours is looking for his run away dog and thats how the two men meet, strictly by chance or if you want to call it by an ironic twist of fate. This neighbour turns out to be the brother of an old friend from a time when Trond and his father spend the summer in the area. His memories carries one back to one certain summer, to foolish boyhood activities (stealing horses *hint*) which ended unfortunate. But this is the starting point for a whole avalanche of life changing events for Trond, slowly, as in passing but shaping him, his life and his character to the man he is now. It is not so much a \"coming-of-age\" story as it is about growing up, about acceptance of oneself and the understanding what makes us who we are. Trond as a character only partially succeds in this, sometimes it feels like he needs to convince himself of his own reality with all his mistakes made in a lifetime but also that happiness indeed happend too. ...more<---C>Per Petterson</---C>", "Title": "Out Stealing Horses"},
