{"Comments": "Most Americans are familiar with <---A>Stephen Colbert</---A> and his viciously partisan antics. He makes Ann Coulter,<---M> that hateful</---M>, Republican attack-hermaphrodite, look like a kindly grandmother. More recently, this lifelong right-winger attempted to subvert and sabotage both the democratic process and the Democratic Party by running as a Democrat for president in the state of South Carolina. Colbert has proven himself, time and again, to be a self-satisfied stooge less concerned with reality than with his Most Americans are familiar with Stephen Colbert and his viciously partisan antics. He makes Ann Coulter, that hateful, Republican attack-hermaphrodite, look like a kindly grandmother. More recently, this lifelong right-winger attempted to subvert and sabotage both the democratic process and the Democratic Party by running as a Democrat for president in the state of South Carolina. Colbert has proven himself, time and again, to be a self-satisfied stooge less concerned with reality than with his ratings and status amongst the Republican elite. His \"logic\" extends to asking such unanswerable non-questions as \"Don't you want to win the war on terror?\" He sees the world in black and white, with no shades of color or gray, and he expects the world to answer to his limited understanding of it. In I Am America (<---B>And So Can You</---B>), Colbert attempts to translate the uniquely twisted logic of his TV rants into a book of socio-political commentary. That he should write a book is shocking, if for no other reason than its hard to imagine he even reads them. (First sentence of the book: \"I'm no fan of books.\") From the start, his ego is the boat with his partisan agenda at the helm. The introduction is more like an instruction list, guiding the reader in how to \"read\" the book. (Don't highlight anything; it comes with Colbert approved stickers to notate moments of utter worship.) He then proceeds to lecture about the family. As one can expect from the admitted sexist, Colbert's view of the family is right out of the 1850s. As with any political tome, one eventually stumbles upon moments of seeming coherence amid all the partisan stupidity. Colbert may be absolutely correct in his suggestions for dealing with the elderly, and whether one agrees with the end result or not, he does issue the most coherent argument yet provided by the right on why homosexuality is dangerous. Most times, however, Colbert veers toward hysteria. He attempts to make the absurd case that God loves America more than he loves anyone else, and proves it by covering God's involvement in America's foreign wars. He also pushes an agenda of views that could only come from Colbert's deep involvement with the American quack right: abstinence, anti-abortion, the homosexual recruitment agenda (he even gives page space to a testimonial from a religiously \"reformed\" homosexual), and the long-held Christian Conservative view that bears are a vehicle for demons. And of course Colbert misses the irony in his hateful ridicule of actors who promote \"liberal\" causes. He viciously attacks Sean Penn, Tim Robins and Barbra Streisand without even acknowledging that he, with his TV show, brewing publishing empire and Republican connections, is absolutely no different from the celebrity activists he attacks. Overall, a loosely held-together quilt of facts taken out of context, Republican talking points, opinion packaged as news and prejudicial ignorance. And it's not even written very well. Colbert makes up for what he lacks in literacy by inventing whole new words. The result is both accidentally hilarious and utterly confusing, but certainly not literary or substantive. One need go no further than the title to learn that Stephen Colbert is someone who talks first, and thinks later. Expect his show to move to the FOX Network very soon, and expect many, many more books like this. NC ...more I set out with the intent of quoting my favorite passages from this book. By the end I realized there was only one: \" I am America by Stephen Colbert.\" What, you ask? I'm saying the whole frickin' thing is quotable! I Am America is hilarious from start to finish. I snorted, I chortled, I laughed so hard I accidentally drooled. This is everything I hoped it would be. I'm glad I finally got around to it. My only quibble is a minor, half-serious one. I worry about the people out there who actually t I set out with the intent of quoting my favorite passages from this book. By the end I realized there was only one: \" I am America by Stephen Colbert.\" What, you ask? I'm saying the whole frickin' thing is quotable! I Am America is hilarious from start to finish. I snorted, I chortled, I laughed so hard I accidentally drooled. This is everything I hoped it would be. I'm glad I finally got around to it. My only quibble is a minor, half-serious one. I worry about the people out there who actually take this seriously. \"Oh that's ridiculous,\" you say, \"no one's stupid enough to take Colbert seriously.<---F>\" Wrong</---F>. When I was writing for newspapers back in the day, I would occasionally do satirical pieces. They were thinly veiled as such. I didn't want anyone mistaking my sentiments for my true feelings. And yet, some people did. I was astounded. It was a real reality check for me. There are still people in the world that take everything they hear at face value. I fear these people and I fear for these people. How is it they haven't all already been accidentally run over by buses? ...more Things I learned from listening to this audiobook: - Dos/Don\u2019ts for defrosting Stephen Colbert\u2019s cryogenically frozen head. - Why ice hockey is training for the eventual war with glaciers - Red means stop. Green means go. Purple means Wednesday. - Why Kittens really don\u2019t wear mittens. - What to say to the evil robot overlord to explode its hive mind when it takes over WARNING: Do not attempt to listen to this book on headphones in public while drinking anything. Not only will you laugh-out-loud mania Things I learned from listening to this audiobook: - Dos/Don\u2019ts for defrosting Stephen Colbert\u2019s cryogenically frozen head. - Why ice hockey is training for the eventual war with glaciers - Red means stop. Green means go. Purple means Wednesday. - Why Kittens really don\u2019t wear mittens. - What to say to the evil robot overlord to explode its hive mind when it takes over WARNING: Do not attempt to listen to this book on headphones in public while drinking anything. Not only will you laugh-out-loud maniacally at random intervals, you will likely spit water all over the people around you. Trust me on this one. My keyboard is the evidence. ...more Stephen Colbert is the highly entertaining comedian that has been mocking Republicans relentlessly at every turn. Not that they don't kind of take themselves seriously and could sometimes benefit from a good mocking. I can say this because I'm not a liberal either. I'm Australian. I have no vested interest in American politics. You know what I do have a vested interest in? Funny. Now, I generally find John Stewart funnier and I appreciate Colbert's moronic, dead-pan Republican act. I just can't ta Stephen Colbert is the highly entertaining comedian that has been mocking Republicans relentlessly at every turn. Not that they don't kind of take themselves seriously and could sometimes benefit from a good mocking. I can say this because I'm not a liberal either. I'm Australian. I have no vested interest in American politics. You know what I do have a vested interest in? Funny. Now, I generally find John Stewart funnier and I appreciate Colbert's moronic, dead-pan Republican act. I just can't take it for too long because then my brain starts to hurt. Which was probably my downfall in reading this book. Colbert obviously knew that the schtick was going to get old and so peppered the book with many, many amusing images and captions. As a writer and reviewer, I would never do this. Never! I still struggled after a while. This book really belongs in the hands of a die-hard Liberal American. Those are going to be its readership because they're going to be the ones that enjoy every joke and twisted piece of logic. As for me, meh. I agree with the sentiments but as long as no nukes get launched, I can't say that I care much what America does with its politics and therefor couldn't keep interested in the book. ...more Rachel and I were in the audience for the Colbert Report a week before the writers went on strike. I highly recommend seeing it live! Before the show Stephen takes questions from the audience. Rachel's question was \"what are you reading right now?\" Stephen said \"A Jesuit of Broadway\". Rachel asked \"what is it about?\" Stephen said \"it's about a Jesuit on Broadway\". Stephen then asked Rachel \"what are you reading?\" Rachel stammered \"uh, your book!\" Stephen said \"oh, don't waste your time on that g Rachel and I were in the audience for the Colbert Report a week before the writers went on strike. I highly recommend seeing it live! Before the show Stephen takes questions from the audience. Rachel's question was \"what are you reading right now?\" Stephen said \"A Jesuit of Broadway\". Rachel asked \"what is it about?\" Stephen said \"it's about a Jesuit on Broadway\". Stephen then asked Rachel \"what are you reading?\" Rachel stammered \"uh, your book!\" Stephen said \"oh, don't waste your time on that garbage\". We bought this book when it first came out and the beginning was pretty funny. Getting farther in it though, it seems there is a lot of padding. Or perhaps it's just missing something in translation. I'd recommend getting the Book-on-Tape (CD) version. I think it would be a lot funnier actually read by Stephen Colbert. \"Nothing the ladies like more than a big sack. I mean something a cartoon bandit would carry out of a bank.\" Perhaps the best part of the book is the at the very end, the transcript from his address to the White House Correspondents' Dinner. This is the single greatest piece of political satire. Ever. Probably because he was roasting Bush while just 3 feet away from Bush. ...more Some of the time, very funny Much of the time, sorta funny to fairly amusing. Occasionally, not funny at all. Stephen Colbert is talented, and his political humor is entertaining, as long as it is in small doses. Here, the schtick got a little old a little fast and left me a little bored, at least when I wasn't laughing out loud. So it was good, but not as good I had hoped. I think I'll stick to him in on the TV. Really really funny. I listened to this while driving...don't recommend that. It made me laugh too many times, which could have endangered those driving near me. Glad I survived I Am America. The audio book is essentially one long standup/sketch routine. Colbert has done a fine service for America creating the Colbert persona--what's so disturbing is how it is only a slight exaggeration of the right wing Conservatives of America, the Rush Limbaughs, Glenn Becks and Ann Coulters of the world. He Really really funny. I listened to this while driving...don't recommend that. It made me laugh too many times, which could have endangered those driving near me. Glad I survived I Am America. The audio book is essentially one long standup/sketch routine. Colbert has done a fine service for America creating the Colbert persona--what's so disturbing is how it is only a slight exaggeration of the right wing Conservatives of America, the Rush Limbaughs, Glenn Becks and Ann Coulters of the world. He slightly revises their actual opinions...to be more honest and straightforward. He outs the subtext; he reveals the barbed wire lining to their cloudy viewpoints. And then throws some extra wacky bits on top of it just for laughs. It's good. At times, I did find myself scared because I felt like many right wingers would listen to this and either 1) agree with it without recognizing the irony, or 2) not think it reflected their party's views when in fact it does. But even while it is terrify to recognize the small-minded bigotry and arrogant selfishness that undergirds the Republican Party (and much of the Democratic party as well), there is still laughter that can and should be had at their expense. The humor arises from a recognition and appreciation that Colbert feels ... just like I (you) do. That is, it's funny because we both recognize that the Emperor wears no clothes even while millions of American's don't. That at least is a wonderful thing. I met Colbert briefly, heard him read with Amy Sedaris and Paul Dinello at an indie bookstore in Chicago that no longer exists many years ago upon the release of their very funny novel Wigfield The Can-Do Town That Just May Not . In person, he is rather like his persona--very big and presentational. But of course with the opposite political opinions from his character on the show. He was thoughtful and funny. I raised my hand during the Q&A and asked what he thought it reflected on America that he and Jon Stewart were actually the best sources of news on TV. He made a dry joke, something about...\"You do know we're a comedy show, right?\" which got a laugh. But then he went on to say that it was a sad state of affairs in the world of journalism that TV journalism especially was not about investigating and presenting truths but about trailing the winds of politics. I'm glad there are still a few entertainers out there who find a way to shine a light on what is really going on. It's rather amazing someone so subversive would be allowed to even have a show. Comedy is one route to truth. ...more I suspect that Stephen Colbert, the relentlessly egotistical headlining author of <+++>I Am America (And So Can You!)</+++>, would protest if you called his book funny, but it most definitely is funny. In his mind, however, the book is an indispensable work of truth and advice about how to navigate your life. In the directions for how to read the book, Colbert mentions that his book can be used to swear in people about to give testimony in the extraordinary absence of the Bible. This sums up the esteem wit I suspect that Stephen Colbert, the relentlessly egotistical headlining author of <+++>I Am America (And So Can You!)</+++>, would protest if you called his book funny, but it most definitely is funny. In his mind, however, the book is an indispensable work of truth and advice about how to navigate your life. In the directions for how to read the book, Colbert mentions that his book can be used to swear in people about to give testimony in the extraordinary absence of the Bible. This sums up the esteem with which this work should be regarded, according to the author. I Am America (And So Can You!) opens with Colbert\u2019s declaration that he does not like books. He also hopes that his readers have not read any books before, presumably so that their minds will be pure and therefore most receptive to his truth. The 230-page hardcover goes on to reveal Colbert\u2019s wise opinions about such topics as the family, religion, sex and dating, higher education, the media, and science. In each chapter a multi-layered satire of right wing conservative values and points of view are presented in cleverly hysterical detail. The chapter titles easily decant the savory flavor of the book\u2019s humor. (Please don\u2019t add water!) For example the chapter about Sports is called \u201cWhen It\u2019s Okay to Shower With Men\u201d and the chapter on Class War is named \u201cLet Them Buy Cake For A Change.\u201d In addition to the American-as-apple-pie insight imparted by no less than 14 writers, I Am American (And So Can You!) is so fundamentally funny that the actual design of the book often made me laugh. The photography is truly brilliant, both in composition and the acting skill of the subject. Colbert\u2019s distinctive facial expressions and flair for wholesomeness combined wonderfully with a variety of props ranging from a bouquet of flowers to dog poop. My personal favorite is the photograph of Colbert in front of Applebees, where he presumably became disillusioned with life. (I understand). Another nice touch with the book design are the red-dyed edges of the pages, so as to advertise its Biblical quality. I recommend this book to people who do not read books and like to be told how to think by a male authority figure. Studies indicate this would be a large audience, which accounts for the best-selling success of this book. ...more It's always an experiment when a comedian with no literary history writes (or collaborates to write) a book. Everyone knows that the 80/20 rule even applies to humor: 20% is the joke and 80% is the timing or delivery. With someone like Stephen Colbert - who I have endless respect for after delivering his famous White House Correspondents Dinner speech, which is wisely reprinted in this book - whose humor is predicated on physical, visual humor, it can be quite precarious treading into the waters It's always an experiment when a comedian with no literary history writes (or collaborates to write) a book. Everyone knows that the 80/20 rule even applies to humor: 20% is the joke and 80% is the timing or delivery. With someone like Stephen Colbert - who I have endless respect for after delivering his famous White House Correspondents Dinner speech, which is wisely reprinted in this book - whose humor is predicated on physical, visual humor, it can be quite precarious treading into the waters of a medium that doesn't play well with the 80th percentile of jocularity, and the results show. After spending a few days cruising through this book I felt tired and worn out, not unlike the same mental exhaustion I experienced the last time I played a game with my 5 year-old nephew where the rules were made up on the fly, and seemingly known only to him. Worst of all was the feeling of forlorn, as if the clever, facetious, Democrat-in-sheep's-clothing, comedic juggernaut I had come to admire over many late nights, had decided I wasn't worth the effort to humor. I'm not even going to get into how painfully tedious it was to read all of the comments written in the margins, which were some kind of bastardized version of the genius \"The Word\" segment from Colbert's regular gig. Even if this book fails to do what it set out to accomplish, after the Daily Show's \"America: The Book\", everything similar is doomed to pale in comparison. Luckily, Colbert\u2019s real strength, television comedy, hasn\u2019t suffered because of this troubled foray into more traditional media. ...more The audiobook is so much fun. If you like the Colbert Report, you'll probably like this book. Since Stephen Colbert is one of my favorite celebrities, I did very much enjoy the listen. I listened to it audio knowing that most of Stephen Colbert's comedic humor is the delivery. I found myself laughing out loud a lot. So yes imagine we wandering aisles as I shop or sitting amidst the cheering parents of a soccer game laughing to myself. Colbert has a rare gift of making something funny he doesn't believe in without making it a If you like the Colbert Report, you'll probably like this book. Since Stephen Colbert is one of my favorite celebrities, I did very much enjoy the listen. I listened to it audio knowing that most of Stephen Colbert's comedic humor is the delivery. I found myself laughing out loud a lot. So yes imagine we wandering aisles as I shop or sitting amidst the cheering parents of a soccer game laughing to myself. Colbert has a rare gift of making something funny he doesn't believe in without making it angry or offensive. He mocks many things I believe by arguing for them with the most ridiculous logic and I still laugh and think it's hilarious. His social satire really is genius. But the humor did drag a little. There were times when I wished he'd move onto the next joke. Particularly long were his \"Stephen speaks for me\" characters who rattled on about nothing in particular but made sure to get a sailor's quantity of f-words in there. The thing about Comedy Central is they edit out those f words so I don't have to hear them. If I could skip the other voices, I'd probably give this a 4. Plus I didn't get one crack about bears being a threat to America. I'm disappointed. My favorite segment had to be on parenting, especially his dialogue that women should cater their lives to their children. He even got in Stephen-style praise of Mormonism, which as I explained above is not really praise at all. The first disc was hilarious, the second and third ones slower and not as humorous, but there's still enough wit in there for it to be worth it. Just skip the tracks where Stephen isn't speaking. It's a quick listen; it took a few hours. ...more Full disclosure, I am a huge fan of \u201cThe Colbert Report.\u201d If I am awake at 11:30 p.m., I have to watch the show. Upon its first few viewings I thought that I might not like it as much as \u201cThe Daily Show,\u201d but after a little bit of time in warming up to the character of Stephen Colbert, I quite frankly think that \u201cColbert Report\u201d is in many ways the much funnier show. Much to Mr. Colbert\u2019s dismay, I checked this book out from the library and was unable to avail myself to the full extent of its fe Full disclosure, I am a huge fan of \u201cThe Colbert Report.\u201d If I am awake at 11:30 p.m., I have to watch the show. Upon its first few viewings I thought that I might not like it as much as \u201cThe Daily Show,\u201d but after a little bit of time in warming up to the character of Stephen Colbert, I quite frankly think that \u201cColbert Report\u201d is in many ways the much funnier show. Much to Mr. Colbert\u2019s dismay, I checked this book out from the library and was unable to avail myself to the full extent of its features, such as the various stickers which allow the reader to indicate when they agree with Colbert the most. As one might rightly assume, if you are a big fan of the show, you are likely a big fan of the book. I thought the book was spectacular and the only element missing from the show/character of Stephen Colbert was his incredible interviewing talent, best evidenced on the show in segments like \u201cbetter know a district.\u201d No real surprise that the various quips that Mr. Colbert uses so well on his show are also used to great effect in the book. A few that especially stood out were his belief that baby carrots are trying to make him gay, that the Hundred Years War was a terrible name for a war because you should never set a date for withdrawal, and the idea that sex is like the death penalty with one outcome and so many different ways of carrying it out. I also really loved some of the \u201cStephen Speaks for Me\u201d sections, including those of \u201cyour soulmate\u201d and \u201cThomas Bindlestaff, Executive Assistant to Stephen Colbert.\u201d ...more Ok, so I was totally let down by this book, and I can't remember the last time I just wished the author who was reading the book to me on my commute would just SHUT THE HELL UP. I wasn't expecting that, being as how I'm a huge Jon Stewart fan, have loved the books of his I have read, and like the Colbert Report (although since I haven't had cable for years, I only see it sporadically while housesitting for other, more affluent individuals :)). Anyway, it had no coherent plot, made not good point Ok, so I was totally let down by this book, and I can't remember the last time I just wished the author who was reading the book to me on my commute would just SHUT THE HELL UP. I wasn't expecting that, being as how I'm a huge Jon Stewart fan, have loved the books of his I have read, and like the Colbert Report (although since I haven't had cable for years, I only see it sporadically while housesitting for other, more affluent individuals :)). Anyway, it had no coherent plot, made not good points, was purposefully inflammatory to homosexuals, liberals, immigrants, and college grads, all at a yell, and all in a vain attempt at humor. I liked the cameos by Amy Sedaris and Jon Stewart, but really, I'm glad this audiobook was only 3 CD's long, bc I made myself soldier on rather than giving up halfway through. I really can't speak for the print version of this book at all, since I feel it really must differ dramatically from the audiobook - a lot of the chapters were read by other people (he calls it a \"full cast of characters\") with accompanying sounds, music, and other effects that really did add to the fairly vapid humor found within the script... So, all in all, watch the Colbert Report, but perhaps this is 3 and 1/2 hours you could spend listening to Madonna or something. I certainly can't get those hours back, but maybe I can save others from falling into the same trap... ...more Satire pre-Obama style. Wink wink, nudge nudge, and tongue firmly planted in cheek. If you want a snapshot of exactly what the Colbert Report was you can't do any better. It reminded me of the faux-Ron Burgundy biography I read in that it was funny, but it wasn't quite enough to sustain a whole book. I've got the next one from the library as well from the middle of the Obama years, I'll be curious to see how that one is. My loving life partner & soul mate gave me this for Christmas. Perhaps she's hoping that it might rub off a bit and I might attain the same kind of twinkle in my eye that Stephen Colbert has. Alas, unlikely. I had to give a presentation to a room full of local union leaders last weekend in Austin TX. These are mostly elected leaders of teacher union locals. So activist by nature. But all from western states, so you don't know exactly what to expect. I used a take-off on the title of this book My loving life partner & soul mate gave me this for Christmas. Perhaps she's hoping that it might rub off a bit and I might attain the same kind of twinkle in my eye that Stephen Colbert has. Alas, unlikely. I had to give a presentation to a room full of local union leaders last weekend in Austin TX. These are mostly elected leaders of teacher union locals. So activist by nature. But all from western states, so you don't know exactly what to expect. I used a take-off on the title of this book for my the title of my presentation (it fit in terms of substance and message). But of course to really work, it required knowledge of Colbert's book on the part of the audience, something I couldn't be at all sure of in advance. I started out my session with a question: \"Am I the only one in the room who was given a copy of Stephen Colbert's book for Christmas?\" Turned out, about 1/3 of the room had received a copy, another 1/3 had *given* a copy to someone, and most people in the room depend on the Daily Show and Colbert Report for their news. I know this proves something. Just not sure what! ...more There were a number of times in this book I was laughing out loud, not just a little chuckle, but a full belly laugh. I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who is P.C. sensitive (mom!) or you might just have a stroke before you get to chapter three; and maybe not for the uber-conservative, but even the moderate conservative thinker might find this amusing considering the state of politics today. If you like a good political farce, you are in for a good laugh. A warning on some of the languag There were a number of times in this book I was laughing out loud, not just a little chuckle, but a full belly laugh. I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who is P.C. sensitive (mom!) or you might just have a stroke before you get to chapter three; and maybe not for the uber-conservative, but even the moderate conservative thinker might find this amusing considering the state of politics today. If you like a good political farce, you are in for a good laugh. A warning on some of the language to the sensitive reader. ...more First, I want to thank Mr. Colbert for saving me from a dim and meaningless life as a book-reading, thought-having, liberal. \"I AM AMERICA (And So Can You)\" showed me the light (not that I'm a fan of The Enlightenment) and released me from my prison of 'reality' and 'facts.' Even better, Mr. Colbert taught me that books are useless objects that only make you think. Think of all the money I'll save now that I can stop reading! (Note to Amazon: Maybe you shouldn't carry this book, if too many peopl First, I want to thank Mr. Colbert for saving me from a dim and meaningless life as a book-reading, thought-having, liberal. \"I AM AMERICA (And So Can You)\" showed me the light (not that I'm a fan of The Enlightenment) and released me from my prison of 'reality' and 'facts.' Even better, Mr. Colbert taught me that books are useless objects that only make you think. Think of all the money I'll save now that I can stop reading! (Note to Amazon: Maybe you shouldn't carry this book, if too many people read it, it could cut into your profits...) Evern though the words are only printed on the page, it's like I can hear Stephen Colbert reading them to me in my head. This book is just like watching \"The Colbert Report\" but I can read it at night without my wife telling me to turn down the volume! After reading this book, I realized that every other book ever published pales in comparison, so I emptied out all of my bookshelves. (Even my cookbooks.) I piled them all in my front yard. When the garbage men didn't take them away, I couldn't figure out what to do with them. Long story short, my neighbors called the police when the bonfire started to catch their lawns on fire. I say a $500 fine and a scorched lawn is a small price for such a firey (ha!) act of patriotism. READ THIS BOOK. In fact, read ONLY this book. Buy multiple copies and resell them to your friends. (Don't give them away - Stephen says \"no free rides!\") If every person in America would read this book, we'd save our nation from femiliberislamocommunoenvirofascism (and Bears) by the end of the week. ...more This book is funny. Just by reading the title and the back cover (which incidentally only had about 15 words on it) I knew that this book would be funny. And it is, but it's not much else. The character that Colbert plays on his show (intensely-conservative-right-wing-republican) is not actually him. It's almost like this alter ego he has created. In real life, Colbert is a left-wing-liberal. But on his show, he's completely the opposite. So being a regular watcher of his show, and knowing what This book is funny. Just by reading the title and the back cover (which incidentally only had about 15 words on it) I knew that this book would be funny. And it is, but it's not much else. The character that Colbert plays on his show (intensely-conservative-right-wing-republican) is not actually him. It's almost like this alter ego he has created. In real life, Colbert is a left-wing-liberal. But on his show, he's completely the opposite. So being a regular watcher of his show, and knowing what most of his opinions already were, I would have gotten more out of this book if it contained the real Stephen Colbert's views on politics, religion, sex and dating, sports, homosexuals, America, Immigrants, etc. (These are all names of some of the chapters.) But it didn't, it just contained his character's views and opinions. So while it was a flat-out hilarious book, it didn't have any other weight, in my opinion. That being said, disregard all of that and read the book. It's really funny, and it shows his comedic genius outside of television. Writing-wise, I don't know if it was because of the writing style, or his diction, but when I was reading, I could hear his voice dictating what I was reading. This made it even more enjoyable. ...more Thanks to MY secret librarian powers, I didn't get my hands on this before it was released, but I did get it before anyone else had the chance to check it out. My rating is premature and probably too generous, and it reflects my near-blind devotion to anything and everything Colbertian. That being said, from the bits and pieces I've read, it's utterly hilarious. Sure, there's a little something missing when you read his word (I have to imagine Colbert reading it in his unmistakable vocal style); Thanks to MY secret librarian powers, I didn't get my hands on this before it was released, but I did get it before anyone else had the chance to check it out. My rating is premature and probably too generous, and it reflects my near-blind devotion to anything and everything Colbertian. That being said, from the bits and pieces I've read, it's utterly hilarious. Sure, there's a little something missing when you read his word (I have to imagine Colbert reading it in his unmistakable vocal style); yet it retains that hilarious-as-hell trait we all know and love. The satirical humor is spot on, from the list of commentary from a college course catalog (\"ENG 324: Careers in Poetry ... Just move back in with your parents NOW.\"), to the \"Stephen Speaks for Me: A Chance for Average Americans to Agree with What I Think\" sidebars, the entire book just makes me laugh thinking about it. A must-read for the Colbert devotees. Oh, AND it re-prints the transcript of Colbert's famous address at the White House Correspondents' Dinner from 2006. Gotta love it! ...more Not sure why it took me so long to finish this book. I would pick it up, read a bit, put it down and move on to something else. Maybe it's like when you save your Halloween candy and your siblings (who scarfed theirs before their costumes even came off) are jealous when you still have a Snickers fun size with your lunch well into December. Now that I'm done, and my sides ache from laughing, I'm glad I doled it out to myself in small doses. It was less about savoring and more about the fact that Not sure why it took me so long to finish this book. I would pick it up, read a bit, put it down and move on to something else. Maybe it's like when you save your Halloween candy and your siblings (who scarfed theirs before their costumes even came off) are jealous when you still have a Snickers fun size with your lunch well into December. Now that I'm done, and my sides ache from laughing, I'm glad I doled it out to myself in small doses. It was less about savoring and more about the fact that Stephen Colbert, in large amounts, much like your Halloween candy, can give you a stomach ache. And a note to anyone who actually takes him seriously as a \"right-winger\".... it's called satire. Look it up!! ...more For me, this was a long awaited diatribe!! This book is recommended by Stephen Colbert. It is written by Stephen Colbert. It has a an introduction by Stephen Colbert and just by opening the cover you become 25% more patriotic. If that's not a 5 star recommendation, I don't know what is!! **Must have a full functioning understanding of IRONY and all it's glory or this book is NOT for you. Disappointing. Whatever makes Colbert so hilarious and charming on television didn't make it onto the page. The book also felt cobbled together by different writers. Sometimes jokes felt heavy-handed; other times the sarcasm was so subtle that it made Colbert's faux uber-conservatism kind of uncomfortable. This is certainly not a literary masterpiece, but it is a good book to have beside the bed. I liked to read a few pages before going to sleep as it was the perfect non-committal, good for a chuckle book. I also like that Colbert's speech to the White House Correspondents Dinner was included at the end of the book. That was a great speech and proved that Colbert's got big ones! My favorite thing about this book is that it comes with an attached fabric bookmark. you know, the kind that, once upon a time, graced hardcovers all over the world. the kind that, nowadays, are mostly extinct. haha, how silly, I said \" mostly extinct,\" as if that even makes sense ha ha ha how silly, indeed . I mostly forgot to use the bookmark, having been so out of practice, not having encountered bookmarks beautifully attached to the bindings of hardcovers with such craftsmanship and precisi My favorite thing about this book is that it comes with an attached fabric bookmark. you know, the kind that, once upon a time, graced hardcovers all over the world. the kind that, nowadays, are mostly extinct. haha, how silly, I said \" mostly extinct,\" as if that even makes sense ha ha ha how silly, indeed . I mostly forgot to use the bookmark, having been so out of practice, not having encountered bookmarks beautifully attached to the bindings of hardcovers with such craftsmanship and precision in so many moons. Relics of a golden past. I recall the days of yore when these fabric bookmarks were more common sightings like UFOs; but that reality is no longer, and we can thank the liberals and their media bias for doing away with so many fine literary traditions, thanks a lot. As I stroked the silky material of the bookmark when I did remember its existence, I found myself wondering whether it was 800 thread count or a polyester/silk blend of the finest quality. I don't know anything about textiles, but I know high quality when I caress it (or wear it). Thank you, Stephen Colbert & Publisher for ... everything. Thank you for understanding the importance of marking one's place should one be called away from your manifesto by life's dire urgencies; thank you for showing me how to be America in America; thanks for truthiness, thanks for bald eageles, thanks for all the fish, oops wrong book. (To my knowledge, this book is only available in hardcover, because softcovers are for cheapskates, and cheapskates are unAmerican, the worst kind of American. you know what's the cheapest kind of skates? people who check this book out from the library. ::guilty::) ...more I do watch the show as often as I can, but unfortunately I don\u2019t catch it every night (I know, I know, I\u2019m not a real American, and I just lost all of the patriotism I gained by reading the book) \u2013 so most of this particular delivery was fresh to me, though most of the general concepts were not. There are chapters on animals, religion, and homosexuals, to name a few, and if you\u2019ve watched the show, you\u2019re probably pretty familiar with Colbert\u2019s TV persona\u2019s take on all of that. The best parts of I do watch the show as often as I can, but unfortunately I don\u2019t catch it every night (I know, I know, I\u2019m not a real American, and I just lost all of the patriotism I gained by reading the book) \u2013 so most of this particular delivery was fresh to me, though most of the general concepts were not. There are chapters on animals, religion, and homosexuals, to name a few, and if you\u2019ve watched the show, you\u2019re probably pretty familiar with Colbert\u2019s TV persona\u2019s take on all of that. The best parts of the book for me were, funnily enough, things like the stickers or this: I\u2019m sure Colbert would be very proud because he, you know, hates books. I enjoyed reading it, but to be honest, when it comes down to it, I\u2019d much rather watch the show than read this book. Not just because the content of the show changes, but because for me, a lot of the charm in Stephen Colbert\u2019s humour comes from his delivery. While the book is funny, I\u2019m sure it would be much more entertaining to actually watch him perform it. (I expect to be compensated for that idea if it comes to fruition.) ...more If you\u2019re not familiar with the character that Stephen Colbert plays on his Comedy Central show (that of a \u201cwell-intentioned, poorly informed high-status idiot\u201dand a \u201cself-important right-wing commentator\u201d \u2026 in other words, a parody of folks like Bill O\u2019Reilly), then this book is going to confuse the heck out of you. If you\u2019re \u201cin\u201d on the joke, then I think you\u2019ll find this book hilarious \u2026 though I really do wish I\u2019d listened to it on audio instead of the print version. I kept imagining people If you\u2019re not familiar with the character that Stephen Colbert plays on his Comedy Central show (that of a \u201cwell-intentioned, poorly informed high-status idiot\u201dand a \u201cself-important right-wing commentator\u201d \u2026 in other words, a parody of folks like Bill O\u2019Reilly), then this book is going to confuse the heck out of you. If you\u2019re \u201cin\u201d on the joke, then I think you\u2019ll find this book hilarious \u2026 though I really do wish I\u2019d listened to it on audio instead of the print version. I kept imagining people who actually believe the right-wing stuff that Colbert is skewering picking up this book and thinking \u201cYeah! All right! This guy knows what he is saying.\u201d (The book itself is an extension of the Colbert character\u2019s political and social beliefs from the show.) I think Colbert is fearless in his commitment to his character, especially when I suspect his own personal views are likely very far from his Doppelganger. One part that is worth of the price of admission is the transcript of Colbert\u2019s 2006 White House Correspondent\u2019s Dinner speech, where he mocked George W. Bush and his fellow Republicans right to their faces with a brilliant satirical speech. How gutsy and fearless is that? If you\u2019re a Colbert fan, I suspect you\u2019ve read this already. If not, what\u2019s stopping you? ...more Big, big difference between amusing and funny. Will Ferrell skating with Jon Heder is funny. Throwing a Baby Ruth candy bar in a crowded swimming pool is funny. Sending a Faber College parade into tumultuous chaos is funny. Heck, even Michael Moore is funny (especially when he's trying not to be funny). Amusing is watered-down humor: A toddler playing with his diaper; a lawyer dropping his briefcase; Bill Clinton chastising the media. Amusing is okay, it's just. . .superficial. Which could not b Big, big difference between amusing and funny. Will Ferrell skating with Jon Heder is funny. Throwing a Baby Ruth candy bar in a crowded swimming pool is funny. Sending a Faber College parade into tumultuous chaos is funny. Heck, even Michael Moore is funny (especially when he's trying not to be funny). Amusing is watered-down humor: A toddler playing with his diaper; a lawyer dropping his briefcase; Bill Clinton chastising the media. Amusing is okay, it's just. . .superficial. Which could not better describe self-aggrandizing Stephen Colbert's tepid tome I AM AMERICA (AND SO CAN YOU!). Colbert's deadpan parody of morally crusading conservatism mildly entertains--even is warmly amusing in places--but still reeks of superficiality. In other words, this book isn't very funny. And all the margin notes annoyed the tiddlywinks out of me. You want funny in a book of satire and/or parody pick up Al Franken or early Rush Limbaugh (heavier then, but funnier) or even Glenn Beck (only after drinking heavily). Leave Colbert's I AM AMERICA (AND SO CAN YOU!) in your lawyer's briefcase. No doubt he will be amused. ...more I have a Colbert weakness. Every note he hits strikes just the right chord of ironic hilarity for me, pointing out with insight just how ridiculous some parts of the world are. That's the quality that his television show had, and this book (to be fair, I listened to the audiobook WHICH I HIGHLY ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO DO) also has. Think of this as a brief overview of what the character Stephen Colbert thinks. He touches on parenting, old people, straight and gay couples, sex, religion and science I have a Colbert weakness. Every note he hits strikes just the right chord of ironic hilarity for me, pointing out with insight just how ridiculous some parts of the world are. That's the quality that his television show had, and this book (to be fair, I listened to the audiobook WHICH I HIGHLY ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO DO) also has. Think of this as a brief overview of what the character Stephen Colbert thinks. He touches on parenting, old people, straight and gay couples, sex, religion and science, politics and news, and more that I'm likely forgetting. Interestingly, he hardly focuses at all on people or correct events. A VERY wise choice, because this book is now closer to ten years old than not and it still feels very much current. The section on religion was my FAVORITE. As a Roman Catholic I find his teasing assessment of it hilarious, and his brief overview of many other religions had me in stitches. (Really, I was listening to this while taking a walk, laughing my ass off on the street.) PLEASE listen to the audiobook of this everyone!!! I highly advocate audio when it's read by the author, especially when that author is Stephen Colbert. ...more I have been looking forward to reading this for a while. Our library finally got the new bestsellers collection processed, so I have checked it out. I just started it. * * * * Actually, the book is a bit disappointing. It has its funny moments, but there is a lot of fluff in between the funny parts. It does capture the tone of any pundit book out there, and that may actually work against it as well; pundit books suffer from the problem of just going on too long to make their point. And I think th I have been looking forward to reading this for a while. Our library finally got the new bestsellers collection processed, so I have checked it out. I just started it. * * * * Actually, the book is a bit disappointing. It has its funny moments, but there is a lot of fluff in between the funny parts. It does capture the tone of any pundit book out there, and that may actually work against it as well; pundit books suffer from the problem of just going on too long to make their point. And I think that is the problem with the book: it just goes on too long, and some of the jokes seem to stretch on forever. While I like him on The Colbert Report, Mr. Colbert should probably stick to that. Unless you are a really hardcore fan of the Colbert Nation, you can probably safely skip this book. A lot of it you have already seen it on the show if you watch the show, and the rest is just plain boring. ...more \"I Am America\" is a depiction of his show. If you are a fan of Stephen Colbert, then you would enjoy this book for its entertainment value. To enjoy the full experience, I do recommend the audio book version. Also, this book should not be taken too seriously because if you understand Stephen Colbert's humor, it is a complete satire and mockery of all those whom he took shots towards in this book. Throughout the book, you'll find him stating an opinion and it is his imitation of another person or \"I Am America\" is a depiction of his show. If you are a fan of Stephen Colbert, then you would enjoy this book for its entertainment value. To enjoy the full experience, I do recommend the audio book version. Also, this book should not be taken too seriously because if you understand Stephen Colbert's humor, it is a complete satire and mockery of all those whom he took shots towards in this book. Throughout the book, you'll find him stating an opinion and it is his imitation of another person or group of people. He mimics the voices of hardcore conservatives, pro-religion, and pro-abstinence views among many other opinions. Bringing his satiric rants about the decline of America, the role of God in human affairs, family roles, and other various topics, Stephen Colbert is hilarious without being offensive. ...more<---C>Stephen Colbert</---C>", "Title": "I Am America (And So Can You!)"},
