{"Comments": "First, thank you to the author for signing this. I collect my signed books and keep them so that was a nice surprise. About the book: I was a little leery entering for this. I don't like to waste my wins so I tend to be a little selective when entering on FirstReads. I could tell this was self-published (<---B>or something of the sort</---B>) and quite frankly, that scares me. There's a whole lot of people out there who want to be authors. The problem? They can't tell a story.<---F> Or construct a sentence</---F>. By nature First, thank you to the author for signing this. I collect my signed books and keep them so that was a nice surprise. About the book: I was a little leery entering for this. I don't like to waste my wins so I tend to be a little selective when entering on FirstReads. I could tell this was self-published (or something of the sort) and quite frankly, that scares me. There's a whole lot of people out there who want to be authors. The problem? They can't tell a story. Or construct a sentence. By nature I'm a pretty nice person so I don't like to be \"mean\". I can be though and I feel it's my right as a reader to review honestly so I can get past it and get \"mean\" if I have to. I didn't have to here! Cimino can write! He can even tell a story! The countdown isn't something done all the time (and sometimes it's not even done well by an established author) so that was a nice touch. The characters were damn near flawless. It wasn't the most realistic story - I love realisticness (I think this is another made up word of mine? But that's okay. I like it.) - but I also wasn't expecting that so it ended up not mattering. Editing - and this is important folks - the editing is done well. I'm not going to say there are no mistakes but I will say that none popped out at me. And that leaves me one very happy reader. I'd read another book of Cimino's without a second thought, providing the description is interesting to me. I'd suggest not passing this up - it's truly one of the good ones. ...more Roman Sabarese, son and heir of the local mob king, has lived his life surrounded by suspicion and lies. All that suspicion comes to a head when Zoe Greene disappears from right under his nose, and while Roman races to find Zoe before it's too late, the forces of good and evil crowd in tight for the kill. <+++>Table 21</+++> is an entertaining mob related mystery written for an adult audience. It contains various mob style murders/torture (gruesome,<---M> but not gory)</---M>, profanity (including the F word and \"Jesus\") Roman Sabarese, son and heir of the local mob king, has lived his life surrounded by suspicion and lies. All that suspicion comes to a head when Zoe Greene disappears from right under his nose, and while Roman races to find Zoe before it's too late, the forces of good and evil crowd in tight for the kill. <+++>Table 21</+++> is an entertaining mob related mystery written for an adult audience. It contains various mob style murders/torture (gruesome, but not gory), profanity (including the F word and \"Jesus\"), prostitution, nudity, an erection, references to rape, as well as some non-graphic bathroom related material. Readers should be aware that while the beginning can seem disjointed due to multiple point of view characters \u2013 it all make sense once you get a little ways in and begin to see how the various pieces come together. See more content based reviews at Sarah's Reviews: http://ssbookreviews.blogspot.com/ ...more \"With less than five days left in the expiring millennium, the patrons of Evangeline's were in the mood to celebrate. They were at the precipice. The promise of a new age was littered with the apprehension of the unknown where the religious zealots were having a field day. Vague predictions combined with a feeling of ambivalence by those who feared the future and the change it could bring set the stage for an undertone of repressed hysteria. On a more legitimate scale, computer experts worldwide w \"With less than five days left in the expiring millennium, the patrons of Evangeline's were in the mood to celebrate. They were at the precipice. The promise of a new age was littered with the apprehension of the unknown where the religious zealots were having a field day. Vague predictions combined with a feeling of ambivalence by those who feared the future and the change it could bring set the stage for an undertone of repressed hysteria. On a more legitimate scale, computer experts worldwide warned of a systematic shutdown at the stroke of midnight..Still, most of the population didn't take any of these premonitions too seriously. For them, this was going to be the party of a lifetime...\" Table 21 <---A>T. Rafael Cimino</---A> What were you involved with when the year was 1999 and 2000 was just around the corner? I was one of those individuals who were caught up in preparing computer systems for the predicted \"crash\" that never happened! Surprise! For the characters in Table 21, there was the normal concern of small businesses, but for Roman Sabarese, in particular, a lot more was being planned before the end of the year... Sabarese, the owner of Evangeline's, the hottest restaurant in Tribeca, is also, according to a regional computer site for mob bosses, now head of a criminal enterprise, covering three states, that was formerly run by his father. That mob kingpin had been indicted and was now in prison. But, in reality, even before his father had been put in prison, Roman Sabarese had willingly taken over Evangeline's and had little to do with anything his father was involved with. Secrets of his past haunted him, while secrets in the present were forcing him to take actions faster than planned. Because Zoe Greene, a TV and movie star had come to visit Evangeline's and disappeared. She had sat at Table 21 with Roman, but apparently had not been seen since! Zoe was part of the restaurant family since she had worked there to make her way through college, so her mother contacted Roman right away when she never came home. But did that mean that Roman should order his own staff to search for her? Especially when Bones, who had just gotten out of prison, was one of the men searching? With many suspects later turning up dead? But everything they had tried had not worked in picking up the trail to find Zoe... Official eyes were on Roman, not only as the owner of the restaurant where she had been last seen, but because recent scandal newspapers had linked Zoe and Roman, with a picture of the two talking at Table 21 on that day she had disappeared... Strangely enough in this tale of the mob, it is a member of the police force that Roman finally goes to, officially reporting her disappearance and asking for help. That had caught the whole force off guard, for surely a member of the mob family had never willingly visited their building! Captain Stan Fitzgerald had known Roman for many years. While fighting cancer and heading up his unit took up most of his time, he chose to personally go back out on the streets to respond to Roman's request for help. Which immediately got the Internal Affairs in to investigate what the mob boss had wanted... Cimino takes readers into the personal life of the heir apparent of a mob leader... Was he in too deep to ask for police help? Or was he simply a local business owner naturally expecting help when someone has apparently disappeared? Can you ever escape your past? This totally unexpected drama grabs you and holds you until the end! For those who enjoy crime novels, You'll also get a large measure of \"heart\" softening the incidents of crime. This is unique in sharing both sides--both the police perspective and the life within a criminal organization. I had mixed feelings for the ending, since it was somewhat disappointing, but still it proved to be quite satisfactory given the overall story...Highly recommended! Book Received Via Akula Media Group GABixlerReviews \"Roman Sabarest walked the busy sidewalk towards the precinct house. Every fifth or sixth pedestrian turned back to look at him as though this was Hollywood and he were an A-lister himself. His profile had been featured on the front page of The Observer and every other underground newspaper that specialized in celebrity gossip. His image had also maintained a permanent place within the masthead of the popular mafia website, Mob-boss.com. If Roman was anything in the city, he was now one of its most mysterious celebrities...\" ...more I first noticed this book when it was nominated as one of the possible monthly reads in one of the groups I belong to here on Goodreads. It had a low Kindle edition price and some really high ratings. It then went into my \"to read\" stack. When it came time to move a book from \"to read\" to \"currently reading\" I took a closer look at the reviews. As it happens a number of those 5 star reviews are from strikingly good looking women. I began to wonder if the good reviews were more the result of his I first noticed this book when it was nominated as one of the possible monthly reads in one of the groups I belong to here on Goodreads. It had a low Kindle edition price and some really high ratings. It then went into my \"to read\" stack. When it came time to move a book from \"to read\" to \"currently reading\" I took a closer look at the reviews. As it happens a number of those 5 star reviews are from strikingly good looking women. I began to wonder if the good reviews were more the result of his status as Hollywood screen-writer than of the novel itself. If you depend on reviews, a I do, when choosing a book to download/read, it is probably a good idea to consider just how many books the person lists as having read in \"Goodreads\". But, all that aside, Cimino tells a fast paced story. The first half of the novel moved quickly. Much of the second half slowed down as it plunged into predictability. This edition was in serious need of good editing. There are multiple grammatical errors that detract, for me, from readability. The pacing of the story could have been improved with judicious editing as well. While I am stingy with my 5 star reviews, I am fairly generous with 4 stars. While I won't attempt to retell the story as the synopsis is readily available, this is a mob style crime drama featuring a good deal of violence. This isn't objectionable in the context of the story. But, if you don't like gratuitous violence, stay away from this one. The author shows some potential, but, what you have here is potential, not delivery. ...more I received this book from the First Reads giveaway. Thank you. This mystery is full of suspense. It documents the 99 hours before the Millenium and takes place in Manhattan. The story centers around the lives of two main characters. Zoe Greene is a famous actress, who got her start in her college days working and waitressing in Tribeca's popular restaurant Evangeline's. The restaurant is run by Roman Sabarese, who is the son of a renowned Mafia \"godfather.\" Roman's father is in a federal prison a I received this book from the First Reads giveaway. Thank you. This mystery is full of suspense. It documents the 99 hours before the Millenium and takes place in Manhattan. The story centers around the lives of two main characters. Zoe Greene is a famous actress, who got her start in her college days working and waitressing in Tribeca's popular restaurant Evangeline's. The restaurant is run by Roman Sabarese, who is the son of a renowned Mafia \"godfather.\" Roman's father is in a federal prison awaiting sentencing. Zoe is half African American, living with her Jewish mother. Her father was killed in Vietnam. She disappears after last being seen in Evangeline's. Tracing her whereabouts is what Ramon and his goons are doing. In chasing down leads to her disappearance, murders are committed. I do not want to give away any of the plot, but suffice it to say, this novel is full of suspense and reads with fluidity. You will be intrigued to find out what happens at the end. I especially liked this story as I had just visited New York City a few months ago and recognized different areas of Manhatten that were mentioned. The story also reminded me of another favorite New York mystery writer, Linda Fairstein. Her mystery series also take place in New York, in fact one of her stories has an underground subway scene in it too. An enjoyable and easy read! ...more I received an autographed copy of this book through Goodreads giveaways. I don't enter too often and while I like food/restaurant books a lot more than thrillers or crime novels I decided to give this book a chance. I am very glad that I did. Some previous reviewers had mentioned the violence, grit, and dark nature of this book. I disagree, I have read far worse in novels that I did not expect that kind of detail. While it is a book about the mob, it is vastly different from so many others out t I received an autographed copy of this book through Goodreads giveaways. I don't enter too often and while I like food/restaurant books a lot more than thrillers or crime novels I decided to give this book a chance. I am very glad that I did. Some previous reviewers had mentioned the violence, grit, and dark nature of this book. I disagree, I have read far worse in novels that I did not expect that kind of detail. While it is a book about the mob, it is vastly different from so many others out there. Do not lump this one in with others that do not match its quality. I would have given it 4 1/2 stars if able to do so. The plot twists were predictable until they took one other twist that you didn't always see coming. The pieces came together at the end, and this one wrapped up a lot better than many I have read in recent months. Cimino is not an author I would have been exposed to without Goodreads and I am very appreciative of the chance to read his work. I do not often give my wife recommendations for books, however I told her this may be one she should pick up. We've already gone in search of another Cimino work, Mid Ocean, and will be reading that one later this year. ...more Table 21 is a powerful \"Godfather meets Crash\" tale set in 1999, turn-of-the-millennium, New York City. Roman Sabarese, the owner of the Evangeline's, the hottest eatery in Tribeca, is faced with an urgent crisis; Zoe Greene, a new to the A-list actress and personal friend has gone missing. At the same time, his father, the Don of New York Organized Crime, sits in a Connecticut Federal Prison awaiting trial. As Roman's world spins out of control, and to make matters worse, Manhattan comes unglue Table 21 is a powerful \"Godfather meets Crash\" tale set in 1999, turn-of-the-millennium, New York City. Roman Sabarese, the owner of the Evangeline's, the hottest eatery in Tribeca, is faced with an urgent crisis; Zoe Greene, a new to the A-list actress and personal friend has gone missing. At the same time, his father, the Don of New York Organized Crime, sits in a Connecticut Federal Prison awaiting trial. As Roman's world spins out of control, and to make matters worse, Manhattan comes unglued as it encounters the biggest party in the world. As two million visitors descend on the city, Roman and his crew fight against time to find Zoe and return her to safety. Table 21 is wonderfully written and has an ending I never saw coming. This is a powerful story of love, conviction and, in the end, a triumphant spirit that trumps age old threads of hatred and bigotry. ...more As a member of the publisher's focus group, I had the privilege to read an advance draft of this book and I couldn't put it down for a minute. It made a long flight feel like a trip across town. The story line goes smooth, yet compelling, keeping you guessing what will happen untill the very last page. If you like an entertaining story with a variety of possible endings, this book will do it for you. And still you will be surprised at the end. I can't express enough what a great read \"Table 21\" As a member of the publisher's focus group, I had the privilege to read an advance draft of this book and I couldn't put it down for a minute. It made a long flight feel like a trip across town. The story line goes smooth, yet compelling, keeping you guessing what will happen untill the very last page. If you like an entertaining story with a variety of possible endings, this book will do it for you. And still you will be surprised at the end. I can't express enough what a great read \"Table 21\" was. The author kept his unique story telling from his previous work \"Mid Ocean\", but I think he did it even better with this one! ...more The outsider's nonchalance of mob chief Roman Sabarese and T. Rafael Cimino\u2019s highly restrained hand in helping him relate his story has resulted in a book that shuns any sense of melodrama and emotional attachment. Instead, we get a highly intelligent, insightful, and gripping look at Mafia life, stuffed with fascinating details. As befits his previous Novel, Mid Ocean, Cimino stays at a distance with elements of suspense, poetry, sensuality, visual irony, and energy. In this book, it's all cere The outsider's nonchalance of mob chief Roman Sabarese and T. Rafael Cimino\u2019s highly restrained hand in helping him relate his story has resulted in a book that shuns any sense of melodrama and emotional attachment. Instead, we get a highly intelligent, insightful, and gripping look at Mafia life, stuffed with fascinating details. As befits his previous Novel, Mid Ocean, Cimino stays at a distance with elements of suspense, poetry, sensuality, visual irony, and energy. In this book, it's all cerebral. The author\u2019s magnetic personality and storytelling talents make this book an addictive read. ...more The outsider's nonchalance of mob chief Roman Sabarese and T. Rafael Cimino\u2019s highly restrained hand in helping him relate his story has resulted in a book that shuns any sense of melodrama and emotional attachment. Instead, we get a highly intelligent, insightful, and gripping look at Mafia life, stuffed with fascinating details. As befits his previous Novel, Mid Ocean, Cimino stays at a distance with elements of suspense, poetry, sensuality, visual irony, and energy. In this book, it's all cere The outsider's nonchalance of mob chief Roman Sabarese and T. Rafael Cimino\u2019s highly restrained hand in helping him relate his story has resulted in a book that shuns any sense of melodrama and emotional attachment. Instead, we get a highly intelligent, insightful, and gripping look at Mafia life, stuffed with fascinating details. As befits his previous Novel, Mid Ocean, Cimino stays at a distance with elements of suspense, poetry, sensuality, visual irony, and energy. In this book, it's all cerebral. The author\u2019s magnetic personality and storytelling talents make this book an addictive read. ...more Table 21 opens in Brooklyn 1975 where an African American nursing student is brutally murdered. Twenty five years later, New York prepares for the turn of the millennium and the Sabarese organized crime family is coming unglued. All these events collide as secrets that have slept for over a quarter of a century come together as lives are changed forever. This is one of the best novels I've read in a long time. I recommend it to anyone who wants a book they can start and finish in a short period Table 21 opens in Brooklyn 1975 where an African American nursing student is brutally murdered. Twenty five years later, New York prepares for the turn of the millennium and the Sabarese organized crime family is coming unglued. All these events collide as secrets that have slept for over a quarter of a century come together as lives are changed forever. This is one of the best novels I've read in a long time. I recommend it to anyone who wants a book they can start and finish in a short period of time and feel entertained at the same time. ...more I received this book as a First Reads giveaway. Table 21 is a novel about an organized crime syndicate and the events affecting it as the countdown to the new millennium takes place. I really went back and forth on the rating, as I liked the story quite well but found the language seemed to be a little bit forced in spots. Maybe this was just me. In the end, I went with 3.5 stars rounding up to 4, as I really did like the pacing, the characters, and the plot of the story. I will most likely give t I received this book as a First Reads giveaway. Table 21 is a novel about an organized crime syndicate and the events affecting it as the countdown to the new millennium takes place. I really went back and forth on the rating, as I liked the story quite well but found the language seemed to be a little bit forced in spots. Maybe this was just me. In the end, I went with 3.5 stars rounding up to 4, as I really did like the pacing, the characters, and the plot of the story. I will most likely give the authors other work a look. ...more I won this book on good reads. I enjoyed this book so much that I didn't even get to add it to my currently reading section on goodreads, because before I knew it I had finished. Table 21 was really well written, it moved between the characters smoothly and kept me guessing as to what was going to happen next. I will be looking into more of T. Rafael Cimino's books. I took this book on a comping trip to Vermont and didn't put it down until i was finished 8 hours later. Fabulous work Mr. Cimino. Great Job. I am reading you first book Mid Ocean next. Table 21 is a powerful story of love, loss and redemption. All surrounded by the 2000 New Years celebration and the New York Mafia. A 5 star read!!! Story telling as deft and dexterous as a meat cleaver. Terrible dialog. Ridiculously dull , sentimental story. Not sure where the positive reviews come from. Truly prolific. This book attacks crime, race and the collision of all things goodfellas. Great work! Table 21 is one of the best Mafia books I've read so far. I have read all the work from this author and I'm pleasantly impressed. While I prefered Mid Ocean, Table 21 is a close second. Cimino is a brilliant writer with a huge future ahead of him. I loved this story. A great read. I've only given two 5-star ratings and this is one of them! Bravo! I loved this book. The story kept me glued to every page and the ending took my by surprise. I recommend this to anyone who has an interest in organized crime, the FBI or the Italian Mafia. A great work of fiction that's set in New York City. A bit violent but it's done tastefully and with purpose. A five star read. I didn't realize I had picked a Sopranos type book. It took a while for the book to grow on me, which in the end it did. It was an enjoyable read with a good story and twist. really good recommended My opinion: Table 21 is a little better than average. It was tough to assign a rating - I prefer 3.5, but that's not an option on the visual scale. There were some grammatical/spelling errors that bothered me. Trader was used once when it should have been traitor. Whipped used instead of wiped. There were a few like that - stuff basic editing should catch. The formatting was off in many areas throughout. The story was decent. It kept my interest, but I did not find it incredibly creative. Several pa My opinion: Table 21 is a little better than average. It was tough to assign a rating - I prefer 3.5, but that's not an option on the visual scale. There were some grammatical/spelling errors that bothered me. Trader was used once when it should have been traitor. Whipped used instead of wiped. There were a few like that - stuff basic editing should catch. The formatting was off in many areas throughout. The story was decent. It kept my interest, but I did not find it incredibly creative. Several parts were unrealistic...someone gets stabbed in the eye and says something like, *now I'm really going to get mad* or similar. With some editing I might go with a weak 4.0. Still, it was a decent enough read...especially considering the price. ...more After receiving this book in a Goodreads First Read giveaway, I was excited to dive into my first mob related novel. However, I really didn't get \"into\" the book until near the end. Not that it wasn't a good story, but I found myself wanting more. More detail and more action. I've seen a lot of reviews stating that the violence was a bit much, but in my opinion it wasn't near enough. The characters who were the victims did not have the detailed responses I would have expected to the violent acts After receiving this book in a Goodreads First Read giveaway, I was excited to dive into my first mob related novel. However, I really didn't get \"into\" the book until near the end. Not that it wasn't a good story, but I found myself wanting more. More detail and more action. I've seen a lot of reviews stating that the violence was a bit much, but in my opinion it wasn't near enough. The characters who were the victims did not have the detailed responses I would have expected to the violent acts that were set upon them. Even so, it got really interesting towards the end as all the connections were revealed, although I wish a certain someone had not died after all. That bummed me out a bit. ...more The end of 1999 is approaching and a Mafia family in New York is feeling the heat as the struggle for territorial power is bursting through the underworld. This book was a refreshing and exciting modern day Capone story which is titillating, action packed and intriguing. Cimino throws so many curve balls at readers you simply can't put the book down and not keep thinking about it until you pick it back up again. From the mafia, celebrities, business owners, family ties, can it get any more intri The end of 1999 is approaching and a Mafia family in New York is feeling the heat as the struggle for territorial power is bursting through the underworld. This book was a refreshing and exciting modern day Capone story which is titillating, action packed and intriguing. Cimino throws so many curve balls at readers you simply can't put the book down and not keep thinking about it until you pick it back up again. From the mafia, celebrities, business owners, family ties, can it get any more intriguing? Of course, so pick your own copy of this book and give it a read. First Reads book. ...more Actually 3.5 stars. It was a 99 cent book and I was desperate for print. Having said this, Table 21 was surprisingly good. However, I found myself doing a lot of skip-reading. I kept telling myself, \"This is a well written book with a good plot,\" but I still kept skimming along. I think the problem was that the author didn't spend enough time developing the characters, so the racing plot drove everything. It would make a wonderful movie. Reading this book was a long road. What should've taken me two days tops ended up turning into five days. At first I couldn't not put the book down. The first quarter of the book was easy, but as the story went on and the multiple points of view continued, I quickly lost interest. For me it got boring and seemed to drag out. The last quarter of the book was great, the story progressed nicely from there and kept nose down. This was a quick and easy read. Had some very interesting aspects and I liked most of the characters. If you like mafia family drama - there was plenty of that. Some of the pieces were repetitive and it was a little violent at times - which is why I gave it 3 stars. But if you want a light, easy mob story (I know, that sounds weird) - this could be for you.<---C>T. Rafael Cimino</---C>", "Title": "Table 21"},
