{"Comments": "I need to start off with my criticism of <---A>John Green</---A>: 1) Margo and Quentin are exactly the same people as Colin and Katherine and Miles and Alaska. Quentin/Colin/Miles is this very thoughtful, somewhat nerdy young man who is on the cusp of fucking reaching out and grabbing life by the balls however he can. He is also enamored with Margo/Alaska/Katherine, a girl who is unattainable. She is unpredictable and full of a shimmering charm; she fades oasis-style the closer and closer you try to get. In a I need to start off with my criticism of John Green: 1) Margo and Quentin are exactly the same people as Colin and Katherine and Miles and Alaska. Quentin/Colin/Miles is this very thoughtful, somewhat nerdy young man who is on the cusp of fucking reaching out and grabbing life by the balls however he can. He is also enamored with Margo/Alaska/Katherine, a girl who is unattainable. She is unpredictable and full of a shimmering charm; she fades oasis-style the closer and closer you try to get. In addition, she feels too much and is never really seen for who she is (<---B>but rather, for who everyone wants her to be</---B>). Having said this,<---M> I am in love with Quentin/Colin/Miles</---M>, and Margo/Alaska/Katherine is the girl I want to meet/aspire to someday be so I can't be too critical. Green knows these people and has lit them from inside with realism and dimension. 2) There were moments (albeit far fewer than in his previous books) where I felt like...okay, this is maybe a teensy bit contrived.<---F> A little bit too perfectly quirky</---F>. I cannot totally relate or believe in a guy who has invented a mathematical formula calculating the probability that the next Katherine he dates will dump him. I think it's a creative premise that makes me want to read the book and is extremely well-executed, but if I don't believe in someone, I'm not going to fully feel for them or understand them. This prevents me from enjoying the book as much as I do Margaret Atwood, etc. Maybe this doesn't bother anyone else, but it bothers me, and I just can't put the guy up on a pedestal. However, however, I fucking loved this book. And I'm not going to summarize it. It was practically perfect and ridiculously engrossing and extremely fascinating (so much so that my adverb use has increased exponentially). If I even tried to give a synopsis, it would trivialize it too much. Green uses Leaves of Grass in a way that made me want to re-read it (after having suffered through it in high school) and potentially graffiti it all over the United States because: we. have. it. so. wrong. here. (I love Green's use of periods). Part of why I loved it is for selfish reasons. Margo's struggles are my own, and her hates are my hates. In Quentin deciphering Margo, it helped me realize a lot of things about myself; this is something that would be valuable to anyone who needs to become the wounded man. ...more Why so many good ratings for this book? It could basically be called Looking for Margo, or Paper Alaska, because it's the same formula, again and again. How many books can he write about an unbelievable teenager secretely loving another unbelievable teenager? Everything was so absurd, Quentin's parents, the road trip, Ben, the black Santas. All the metaphors are perharps what made me lose it completely. The book that Quentin reads, Song of Myself, all the thoughts he had about it are so painfull Why so many good ratings for this book? It could basically be called Looking for Margo, or Paper Alaska, because it's the same formula, again and again. How many books can he write about an unbelievable teenager secretely loving another unbelievable teenager? Everything was so absurd, Quentin's parents, the road trip, Ben, the black Santas. All the metaphors are perharps what made me lose it completely. The book that Quentin reads, Song of Myself, all the thoughts he had about it are so painfully forced down the reader's throat. I've read somewhere that John Green was in love with his own brain, and I cannot agree more. The rant of the detective about balloons was so badly executed I thought it was a joke. It's not poetic, it's ridiculous. And Quentin is so self absorbed, bashing Ben when really he should take a good look at himself. And Margo. God. I had such a hard time finishing the book. It was this bad. ...more I enjoyed <+++>Paper Towns</+++> but did not love it as much as Johns other work. The ending was not as fulfilling as I hoped. 3.5/5 stars Xx \"Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will,\" she says. \"But then again, if you don't imagine, nothing ever happens at all.\" I already said this in a status update but I am so glad I reread <+++>Paper Towns</+++> . I first read it years ago; back before I'd heard of vlogbrothers, back when John Green was only known by a handful of readers, way way back before The Fault in Our Stars . And I loved it. \u201cIt is so hard to leave\u2014until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world.\u201d Then TFi \"Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will,\" she says. \"But then again, if you don't imagine, nothing ever happens at all.\" I already said this in a status update but I am so glad I reread Paper Towns . I first read it years ago; back before I'd heard of vlogbrothers, back when John Green was only known by a handful of readers, way way back before The Fault in Our Stars . And I loved it. \u201cIt is so hard to leave\u2014until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world.\u201d Then TFiOS happened and I began to question my feelings for John Green's writing. I know millions loved his tragicomedy about teens with cancer, yet I found it cheesy and contrived, with unrealistic characters who wallowed in their own pretentious philosophy (sorry fans, but that's how I felt). And I began to wonder if perhaps his books had always been like that and I'd somehow missed it. If perhaps Paper Towns wouldn't be the way I remembered it. You see, here's some truths about John Green: He's an intelligent writer. He loves philosophy and he embraces nerddom. And, under it all, he's a romantic. In TFiOS, I believe he took these things too far. It felt like a book that set out with a mission to be deep, clever, to deliver a multitude of messages, to prove that teenagers are quirky and intelligent. Augustus, especially, seemed built around \"intelligence\" and \"quirkiness\" to the point that he didn't feel real; he felt like a caricature of a \"philosophical teen\". But coming back to Paper Towns made me realise that I hadn't changed. JG's style had. Unlike TFiOS, these characters feel real . I felt like I was observing real teens living real lives, even though the plot does contain some fantastical elements. But it's because Quentin and his friends feel like teenagers. Many of them are still smart (it wouldn't be a JG book if they weren't) but they're realistic, silly, horny, and as ridiculous as we all ultimately are. I laughed out loud so many times. I highlighted so many quotes and then couldn't decide which ones to include in my review. I enjoyed the \"depth\" of the novel that emerges gradually behind the silliness. The lessons about teen love and growing up and wanting to escape. In TFiOS, I felt like JG created caricatures. In this book, he takes caricatures and stereotypes and peels back the layers of them to reveal the people underneath. Which is, ultimately, the underlying theme of this book: \u201cWhat a treacherous thing to believe that a person is more than a person.\u201d Years have passed. People have changed. And this book is still as good as it always was. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more beatlemania is nothing compared to what i feel for john green right now. this book was the perfect palate-cleanser between all the dark apocalyptic stuff i have been shoving in my face. i have been reading so much dystopian YA that i forgot there were other options. i bought this ages ago, because i read looking for alaska , and everyone was giving this one high marks, but i kept passing it up in favor of \"kids whose school is trying to eat them\" and \"kids vs. bears\" and \"kids in a world without beatlemania is nothing compared to what i feel for john green right now. this book was the perfect palate-cleanser between all the dark apocalyptic stuff i have been shoving in my face. i have been reading so much dystopian YA that i forgot there were other options. i bought this ages ago, because i read looking for alaska , and everyone was giving this one high marks, but i kept passing it up in favor of \"kids whose school is trying to eat them\" and \"kids vs. bears\" and \"kids in a world without cheese\" which is the scariest dystopia i can imagine right now, but i forgot just how scary real life can be. and john green reminded me. and obviously, this isn't a horror novel, but i was reading this with so much apprehension, heading towards an uncertain ending, genuinely concerned for the characters. (view spoiler) [ seriously- that scene with the dead raccoon - my heart was in my throat the whole time, i kept thinking NO YOU ARE NOT GOING TO DO THIS SO EARLY IN THE BOOK! YOU ARE NOT GOING TO KILL HER OFF AND HAVE THE REST OF THE BOOK BE ABOUT THEM DEEEEEALING WITH HER SUICIDE. DON'T YOU DARE!! but it was such a tense scene, i was turning each page with dread, and then i missed my subway stop, so thanks a lot, john green (hide spoiler) ] i liked this even better than looking for alaska . in that book, i really liked the characters, but they did feel like characters. this feels like i am just observing real people, following actual kids around (which i would never do, officer) but they sound authentic. i thought looking for alaska was great, but those kids were a little too smarty-pants for me, while this book just sounds like actual smart kids talking. and it is funny and sad and intelligent and oh just so good. that scene with r. and the c.f. t-s?? i laughed so loudly, i startled myself. i just could not stop giggling. (fortunately not on the subway for that one) a lot of the YA stuff i read is like \"what if kids were hyper-articulate and possessed of amazing insight and inner resources and also super fighting skills?\" but this one reminded me of what it was actually like to be youthful (ahhh....) even grown folks who refuse to dip into YA would enjoy this, i suspect. he is my perfect storyteller. he does his job, he takes you on a journey, and the characters actually grow as people and every character has a distinct voice, and there is dramatic tension. he is a writer . not an \"author,\" but a true writer. some YA, even in books i like, falls into traps: they talk down to the audience, they gloss over certain things, clearly hoping the audience won't notice, they fail to provide appropriate details so the world becomes raggedy... and while it is easier, i'm sure, to operate in a real-world setting, rather than a world of your own making, john green does not take any shortcuts. there is a density to his writing that is truly impressive in a book that is not a slow-paced slog. will i return to the YA dystopia? duh, obviously - i have like 30 of them here i have been dying to get into. but i know that when i need a break, i can return to john green and be guaranteed a well-wrought and thoughtful story that manages to actually have useful life lessons without coming across as teachy-preachy. and lord knows i still have a lot to learn. ...more The following is quite a lot of dribble that I felt the need to get off my chest... Hmmm...what to say? I'm kind of perplexed by this book. I know I never want to read the name Margo Roth Spielgelman ever again, that's for sure. The characters (apart from the previously named) were fantastic and very believable. The dialogue between the friends was great and funny as I have come to expect from John Green. The first quarter of the book was highly enjoyable and then it deteriorated for me. I think The following is quite a lot of dribble that I felt the need to get off my chest... Hmmm...what to say? I'm kind of perplexed by this book. I know I never want to read the name Margo Roth Spielgelman ever again, that's for sure. The characters (apart from the previously named) were fantastic and very believable. The dialogue between the friends was great and funny as I have come to expect from John Green. The first quarter of the book was highly enjoyable and then it deteriorated for me. I think this book suffers from it's own storyline. *spoilers* It veers from an amusing and interesting start to the baffling obsession of Quentin in his quest to find the will-not-be-named-again girl after they had one night of vengeful fun. I found myself wondering if this was seriously what this book was about after Quentin starts a desperate search for said girl who left home, is 18 (yes a legal adult) and has studiously ignored the crap out of him for 9 years apart from that one night! Not to mention she has her own head firmly stuck up her own arse. What is with all the convoluted clues left for Quentin? Talk about self important! Anyway, I read through it all hoping it all had good reason, but it turns out it was just a giant exercise in navel-gazing. That's all good and well, but, in future please do something more interesting with your great characters John Green, thank you. ...more \u201cMirroring\u201d is a concept in psychology where a person can know himself better by soliciting feedbacks from other people who he interacts with either at home or at work. Last weekend, I attended a company-sponsored teambuilding session and the facilitator used this. I got some good feedbacks that confirmed what I already knew but also some revelations. Those included in the so-called \u201cblindspots\u201d quadrant. In this novel Paper Towns , John Green indirectly used <---C>Margo Roth Spiegelman</---C> for Quentine Jac \u201cMirroring\u201d is a concept in psychology where a person can know himself better by soliciting feedbacks from other people who he interacts with either at home or at work. Last weekend, I attended a company-sponsored teambuilding session and the facilitator used this. I got some good feedbacks that confirmed what I already knew but also some revelations. Those included in the so-called \u201cblindspots\u201d quadrant. In this novel Paper Towns , John Green indirectly used Margo Roth Spiegelman for Quentine Jacobsen or simply Q to understand love and life and to know himself better as a person, as a man. Not by giving him direct feedbacks but by making him experience the things that he would not have dared doing. Who would have dared driving your parents\u2019 car in the middle of the night, pushing it with your friend few meters away from the house so as not to awake them with the sound of the engine? Then going to the houses of the people who wronged your friend just to avenge? Then your friend disappeared, with no intention of returning and not wanting to be found, the following day? Leaving a note after a hug and a kiss: \u201cI. Will. Miss. Hanging. Out. With. You.\u201d That was after leaving catfishes in the underwear drawer of a friend ha ha. Who would have thought of having this plot in the first place? What makes this novel engaging is the prose: it is downright sincere and true to its voice: youngish, quirky, innocent yet full of life lessons. Green does not push down his philosophy on growing up down your throat. He lets you enjoy his story and life realizations just naturally follow. I am sure that Green\u2019s idiosyncrasies must have been reflected somehow by his many male characters: Q, Radar and Ben but Margo permeates in each page of this novel: \u201dYes. The fundamental mistake I had always made \u2014 and that she had, in fairness, always led me to make \u2014 was this: Margo was not a miracle. She was not an adventure. She was not a fine and precious thing. She was a girl.\" I applaud Green for creating a character like Margo that can rally boys to transform themselves into men without disregard to the pains of growing up. After all, we all went through those pains \u2013 not having a prom date, losing your first love, unrequited love, unknowingly pissing off some of our friends, etc \u2013 and we all learned from them. As we grow old, we tend to ridicule young people experiencing the same pains and call them trivial and proudly say something like you ain\u2019t seen nothing yet! But for them, those are parts of their lives. That\u2019s where we were. That\u2019s where they are now. Like Margo\u2019s paper towns, we need to take care not to blow down the delicate houses and make them fall apart. And yes, even one of my blind spots has just been cleared by this novel. I never thought that a middle-age man like me would still enjoy a YA book. Where were these books when I was growing up? ...more For anyone who is thinking of reading this book, I'll save you the trouble. Who is the real Margo? An attention whore. That's who Margo is. I was pretty disappointed in Paper Towns. I am a big fan of John Green but found this book plodding and boring. I hated the Margo character and thought that Q was a big whiner. His obsession with Margo, who he didn't really even know, was really annoying. I realize that this was one of the messages of the book, that we all assign traits and \"personalities\" to people we hardly know, but it was still hard to take, page after page. I still love John Green and his blog, still consider myself a \"nerd I was pretty disappointed in Paper Towns. I am a big fan of John Green but found this book plodding and boring. I hated the Margo character and thought that Q was a big whiner. His obsession with Margo, who he didn't really even know, was really annoying. I realize that this was one of the messages of the book, that we all assign traits and \"personalities\" to people we hardly know, but it was still hard to take, page after page. I still love John Green and his blog, still consider myself a \"nerd fighter\" and would give just about anything to see him in public, but can't give Paper Towns more than 2 stars. ...more Oh dear lord, I found this book immensely irritating. I've only just finished reading Looking For Alaska (which was an okay book) and thus it was immediately apparent that this book was EXACTLY LIKE LOOKING FOR ALASKA. It had the same geeky male character. The same kooky (aka annoying) female character. The same male best friend. And whilst this was okay in LFA, reading the same characters again was annoying! And it seemed like they were on the same journey as in FA, except obviously there's a di Oh dear lord, I found this book immensely irritating. I've only just finished reading Looking For Alaska (which was an okay book) and thus it was immediately apparent that this book was EXACTLY LIKE LOOKING FOR ALASKA. It had the same geeky male character. The same kooky (aka annoying) female character. The same male best friend. And whilst this was okay in LFA, reading the same characters again was annoying! And it seemed like they were on the same journey as in FA, except obviously there's a divergence in the second half. Call this book the Alternate Universe version of LFA, if you will. Also, I just found elements of this book preposterous. (view spoiler) [ Margo running away, so far away? Considering she has no troubles at home, there doesn't seem to be a strong enough reason for an eighteen year old to suddenly decide to run away (except that oh, she's oh-so-kooky and larger than life and a small-town girl etc etc.) John Green explains why she does, but I still have trouble accepting it. To me, she only did it because she was self-centred and looking for attention. I didn't feel anything for her character. Q was also really annoying, pining for a girl he barely knows, instead in love with her from the friendship they had as a child, rather than the girl she is today. I'm willing to bet all my money (which is not much) that John Green bases the male protagonist on himself, and that the female character is the type of character he fancied at school, and it sort of plays like he's the dorky, awkward girl in love with the popular, unattainable boy. Q's need to abandon everything to find this girl (who, btw, never showed any sign of affection before their pranks together), is entirely self-indulgent and illogical. And whilst at times he sounded like a teenage boy, other times he sounded a decade or two older. The fact that his friends also decide to follow him on a road-trip to find her doesn't make sense. They do it on graduation day. Why would anyone ditch graduation (which they seemed to look forward to) to find a girl who a) doesn't want to be found and b) they don't even like? Everybody loves a roadtrip, sure. But these are limits. These implausibilities made this book really hard to finish. (hide spoiler) ] The thing is, John Green is a good writer. And I feel he really needs to branch out a bit more. His other book, The Fault in the Stars, apparently has the same characters in it too. John, really? A sign of a good writer is their ability to be original, and surely he yearns to write about different types of characters? Also, John needs to have a more interesting plot, where things actually happen, rather than nothing much happening except for a lot of musings. I used to watch YT clips of John and really liked him, so his books are a bit of a let down in comparison. I really do hope he writes something more creative (with fresh characters), because he has got talent - he just needs to push himself more. ...more Unexpected in many ways but still quite a ride! THOSE UNREACHABLE PEDESTALS Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will. This book definitely wasn\u2019t what I expected but then again it surprised me in many ways, and I also made me think, so clearly this wasn\u2019t a journey without a return . How well do we know the other people? How well do we know our neighbors? How well do we know our own close friends? How well do we know our first crush? I am not shocked if many readers wouldn\u2019t enjoy this book, s Unexpected in many ways but still quite a ride! THOSE UNREACHABLE PEDESTALS Nothing ever happens like you imagine it will. This book definitely wasn\u2019t what I expected but then again it surprised me in many ways, and I also made me think, so clearly this wasn\u2019t a journey without a return . How well do we know the other people? How well do we know our neighbors? How well do we know our own close friends? How well do we know our first crush? I am not shocked if many readers wouldn\u2019t enjoy this book, since (without spoilers, don\u2019t worry) it\u2019s a love story like not one you may expected, but still hardly a bad one. Just real. But then again, if you don't imagine, nothing ever happens at all. Everybody had a first crush, and we put them in pedestals, so high, that even those crushes aren\u2019t able to reach them. That\u2019s unfair to our crushes, to our loved ones, to compete against an imaginary perfection. We like to fall in love of our perfect images, and sometimes we don\u2019t invest time in real life to get to know the actual people. And even if they turn out not to be what we wish, reality is always better than an illusion. That blanket still smelled like you. There isn\u2019t anything wrong with having fantasies, any thing able to fill our hearts with some bit of joy can\u2019t be that bad. Still, we should be always brave enough to meet the real person and accept them for what they are. Maybe it won\u2019t work out, maybe it will, but whatever would happen, it will be real. Even if they appear in the middle of the night at your window asking to join them in a wacky adventure. What is life without some wacky adventure once and then? OWNERS OF OUR OWN LIVES As much as life can suck, it always beats the alternative. If we aren\u2019t comfortable with our lives, we should seek a way to change them. We are owners of our own lives, and we should be brave enough to understand what we need to do and not looking for easy exits. We can live the lives that others expected, because if so, we would be ending living other lives than our own. Always a wise advice should be well received, a friendly tip, but at the end, we must forge our own lives, since only us would be guilty of a sad existence or recipents of a happy lifetime. However, we also have in mind that we aren\u2019t islands. Our personal decisions can affect others. I don\u2019t say that then you should not take your decisions, just adjust them to include as best as possible those people who appreciate you. The way I figure it, everyone gets a miracle. Life itself is a miracle and we must honored it doing something good with our lives. But keeping our eyes open since you never know when a wonderful miracle would enter in our lives. And enjoy them while you can since miracles don\u2019t last forever, neither you. Update (July 26th, 2015) I watched the film adaptation last Thursday, and I liked it a lot. In fact, I think that the movie has a better tempo to tell the events. There are some missing stuff but nothing so relevant. The really important elements in the general story are there. Also, the cast of actress Cara Delevingne was the right one to give life to the very complicated character of \"Margo Roth Spiegelman\". I think that the movie is adequate to tell the same message but giving a better light to the character of Margo Roth Spiegelman that if you don't get what the author wanted to tell in the story, it's quite easy to fall in the road of not liking her. The only sin of the story is not being the clich\u00e9 of all romantic stories and giving a realistic angle. ...more I can see why there are people out there comparing this with Looking for Alaska . I am not going to linger on the comparisons between those two because 1) I never liked Looking for Alaska, 2) I never even finished Looking for Alaska and 3) I thought this book was original enough not to find it some twin brother or sister. If you\u2019ve previously read a John Green book, then you\u2019re somewhat familiar with his writing style. Isn\u2019t it gorgeous? His prose always succeeds in charming me and I don\u2019t quite c I can see why there are people out there comparing this with Looking for Alaska . I am not going to linger on the comparisons between those two because 1) I never liked Looking for Alaska, 2) I never even finished Looking for Alaska and 3) I thought this book was original enough not to find it some twin brother or sister. If you\u2019ve previously read a John Green book, then you\u2019re somewhat familiar with his writing style. Isn\u2019t it gorgeous? His prose always succeeds in charming me and I don\u2019t quite consider myself as an easy target\u2026 Lie. I am such an easy target. I am the easiest of targets when it comes to writing style. But still. Margo Roth Spiegelman disappears with clues behind so smart people can track her. Quentin, a smart and bewitched-by-Margo person, makes it his life quest to find the dear disappearing love of his life and, with the help of his friends, Q embarks on an adventure like never before! I make it all sound very dramatic, but the thing is that it IS extremely dramatic for Q and the story overall pretty intense. I thought the clues were fun, although there weren\u2019t that many. I didn\u2019t like that Margo indirectly ruined prom and graduation day for him, although I can only imagine the need to find someone when you think they\u2019re dead. The pacing was a little uneven but here, too, there\u2019s a nuance to be expressed: there was \u2018\u2018action\u2019\u2019 (if I dare call it as such) in the story, there was humor and there was a lot of thinking to be made by Q. I adore this one message (among many others) that I extracted from the story: a girl is just a girl . HA! Margo was first described by Q as a unique, splendid, otherworldly creature, but really, she was just a lost little girl who didn\u2019t know what she wanted, who to be, was relatively tired of living the life she had and just damn liked planning big things and then acting on them (although she liked that a little less, she said so herself). I very much anticipated the denouement\u2026 the moment of revelation\u2026 the ending, because this is the type of story that you know would surprise you with the truth. It wasn\u2019t the most spectacular ending I\u2019ve ever had the pleasure of reading and it was, you could say, banal\u2026 but it sure as hell surprised me! Alright, now I\u2019m off to see the movie. BD | Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin\u2019 ...more DNF 64% Oh, this was just awful. I quite liked the banter between Q and his friends, but I could not stand another word about that damn Margo Roth Spiegelman. Margo Roth Spiegelman is beautiful, Margo Roth Spiegelman is perfect, Margo Roth Spiegelman is sensational, she\u2019s better than everyone else, she\u2019s more than everyone else, and basically she\u2019s everything you\u2019re not. Margo Roth Spiegelman screams Manic Pixie Dream Girl from miles away, she\u2019s whimsical and different and did I mention she\u2019s bet DNF 64% Oh, this was just awful. I quite liked the banter between Q and his friends, but I could not stand another word about that damn Margo Roth Spiegelman. Margo Roth Spiegelman is beautiful, Margo Roth Spiegelman is perfect, Margo Roth Spiegelman is sensational, she\u2019s better than everyone else, she\u2019s more than everyone else, and basically she\u2019s everything you\u2019re not. Margo Roth Spiegelman screams Manic Pixie Dream Girl from miles away, she\u2019s whimsical and different and did I mention she\u2019s better than you? Oh, and then she disappears. MOAR MYSTERY TO MARGO ROTH SPIEGELMAN. Who was a self-centred twatwaffle. Not to mention Ben is a giant douche-canoe, because he wants penises on his cheeks and he also keeps referring to girls as \u2018honeybunnies\u2019. If I have to hear the term \u2018honeybunny\u2019 one more time, I\u2019m going to set rabid bunnies loose on his ass. So basically, I liked the premise, but I couldn\u2019t stand the character whom the entire book was about, and I didn\u2019t want to read another sentence of Q worshipping Margo Roth Spiegelman in one way or another, connecting her to philosophical and poetic mumbo jumbo, and placing her on ten different pedestals. Give me a break. I also really didn\u2019t care about what happened next. Life is too short to spend one more fuck on Margo Roth Spiegelman. Inge has zero fucks. At the end of the day, Inge still has zero fucks. How many fucks did Inge give that day? ...more OHHHHH. No s\u00e9 qu\u00e9 pensar... as\u00ed que lo dividir\u00e9. Lo que NO me gust\u00f3: - La segunda parte del libro, \"THE GRASS\", se me hizo eterna y en partes muy aburrida. - Que Quentin no pudiera pensar en nada y en nadie que no fuera Margo Roth Spiegelman. Eso consum\u00eda cada minuto de su existencia y lo hac\u00eda dejar de lado a sus amigos y otras cosas importantes. - El speech inspiracional-metaf\u00f3rico de Quentin al final del libro, de ventanas y espejos y cuerdas y todas esas cosas. O sea, me gust\u00f3 el mensaje, PERO OHHHHH. No s\u00e9 qu\u00e9 pensar... as\u00ed que lo dividir\u00e9. Lo que NO me gust\u00f3: - La segunda parte del libro, \"THE GRASS\", se me hizo eterna y en partes muy aburrida. - Que Quentin no pudiera pensar en nada y en nadie que no fuera Margo Roth Spiegelman. Eso consum\u00eda cada minuto de su existencia y lo hac\u00eda dejar de lado a sus amigos y otras cosas importantes. - El speech inspiracional-metaf\u00f3rico de Quentin al final del libro, de ventanas y espejos y cuerdas y todas esas cosas. O sea, me gust\u00f3 el mensaje, PERO ES QUE NADIE HABLA AS\u00cd. Ya estaba yo poniendo los ojos en blanco, porque oH GOD. Lo que me gust\u00f3: - La primera y la tercera parte me encantaron much\u00edsimo. De hecho, el libro habr\u00eda tenido una estrella menos de no ser por la \u00faltima parte. - Radar. Radar me cay\u00f3 muy bien. - La decisi\u00f3n de Quentin al final. Si hubiera optado por la otra opci\u00f3n (view spoiler) [O sea, irse con Margo (hide spoiler) ] , yo habr\u00eda estado como: \u00bfES EN SERIO? UGHHHH. *avienta el libro por la ventana* - Tambi\u00e9n me gustaron algunas otras cosas que dejar\u00e9 bajo spoiler... (view spoiler) [La historia que escribi\u00f3 Margo a los 10 a\u00f1os fue lo mejor. Tambi\u00e9n los tres besos del final, y me agrad\u00f3 que Quentin tomara la iniciativa en eso. Creo que los shippeo, PERO me gusto que entendieran que sus caminos eran diferentes y no pod\u00eda ser de otro modo. (hide spoiler) ] Y en general me agrad\u00f3 el libro. Ya le\u00ed 4 libros de John Green (TFIOS, Alaska, Katherines, y este) y puedo entender porque todos dicen que siempre escribe \"m\u00e1s de lo mismo\". S\u00ed, todos sus libros tienen ese mismo tono y ritmo. Y el mismo tipo de protagonistas pretenciosos que hablan con met\u00e1foras, hahaha, \u00a1y esto no lo digo con hate! De hecho, me gustan sus libros, pero no s\u00e9 porque no terminan de convencerme y siempre me tardo much\u00edsimo ley\u00e9ndolos. De igual modo, s\u00e9 que seguir\u00e9 leyendo sus libros. Admiro much\u00edsimo a John Green como persona y como escritor. ...more 2.5 Stars Basically a kid who's very desperate for a prom date. Plot Rundown: Typical unpopular boy with an ordinary boring as bread life. Suddenly super cool unattainable popular pretty girl/childhood crush Margo Roth Beagleman (or whatever her Margmazing name is), breaks into his house and wants to hang out. They go do a bunch of \u201cpranks\u201d on people who Magnificent Margo, thinks have done her wrong. Mysterious Margo then disappears, because, I don't know, her life's fake or something. Our kid with 2.5 Stars Basically a kid who's very desperate for a prom date. Plot Rundown: Typical unpopular boy with an ordinary boring as bread life. Suddenly super cool unattainable popular pretty girl/childhood crush Margo Roth Beagleman (or whatever her Margmazing name is), breaks into his house and wants to hang out. They go do a bunch of \u201cpranks\u201d on people who Magnificent Margo, thinks have done her wrong. Mysterious Margo then disappears, because, I don't know, her life's fake or something. Our kid with his equally dull friends go on a road trip to find Mystical Margo. (Oh and + the decent/bad friend of the lost girl??) You know that basic song that goes: \u201cYou know I'd walk a thousand miles, if I could just see you tonight\u201d *(que piano)*. Just imagine that, but a guy taking it to another level. So I understand what John Green was trying to do: I love that message, it's great. What I didn't like were the dull characters, especially the main one. He definitely was obsessed with Margo and the way it played out on the pages was annoying. I don't want to hear about how amazing someone is in every single chapter. I didn't even like Margo, she just seemed to think herself as above everyone. In my opinion leaving and letting people think you commit suicide is a pretty indecent thing to do. Even if you think your life is a \u201clie\u201d, have the common decency to tell people you're leaving. This was probably a good demonstration of how we sometimes think of life as a game. It isn't about being the most mysterious or having more adventures than someone else, it's about being authentic. Be who you are and don't expect others to be the same. Another thing I'd like to mention is that there's certainly consequences to just disappearing or breaking in. I don't know if I'd even recommend this to a younger audience since I sincerely wouldn't want anyone taking pointers from Margo. One thing I have to mention is that John Green knows how to write. He can certainly create memorable/inspirational quotes. His characters have never been for me, but the philosophical aspect is always interesting. My only little complaint is that having so many \u201cdeep\u201d quotes/metaphors, can take away. Having a couple really highlights the story and makes you go: But having one in every chapter, is more like: A quick reminder for anyone and especially young readers, is that wanting to project yourself as something doesn't make you become that. If you desire to make yourself seem like a mystery, it doesn't mean you're a mystery. You're a person and it's wrong for even you to see yourself as something less or more than that. It's amazing to have adventures, it just doesn't define you. Only you can. I've learned that once you stop seeing things the way other people do, you'll learn how to open your eyes to your own perspective. Overall thoughts: I appreciate the message of the story, just not the plot in general. (Cara appreciation, shout out to her for having great eyebrows) P.S. What's your favourite John Green novel? ...more If you liked Looking for Alaska and Abundance of Katherines, you will LOVE this book. I could NOT put it down. It's funny and mysterious and just so real. Definitely recommended. \"It's so hard to leave-until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world...Leaving feels too good, once you leave.\" We all leave eventually . No matter who and what we are, or where we\u2019re from, we will someday and somehow leave our comfort zones or the norm of our lives to find ourselves a place in this world. Some people take their time into actually doing it. They spent much time planning and scheming on how they should gloriously plow into life. There are some who tried \"It's so hard to leave-until you leave. And then it is the easiest goddamned thing in the world...Leaving feels too good, once you leave.\" We all leave eventually . No matter who and what we are, or where we\u2019re from, we will someday and somehow leave our comfort zones or the norm of our lives to find ourselves a place in this world. Some people take their time into actually doing it. They spent much time planning and scheming on how they should gloriously plow into life. There are some who tried a few times before succeeding, by accepting that their heavy butts are beginning to be a burden to their family and to the economy. Then, there are those who are used to having things come to them in a rush; and when it\u2019s not fast enough they go for it instead\u2026 Such is Margo Roth Spiegelman and many other teenagers out there who cannot wait to be themselves without the restriction of the norm. My dear nephew, Jaff, calls it emancipation . This is perfectly normal; it\u2019s a matter of how they are properly motivated and inspired. They should be equipped, so as not to become scattered dandelions, gliding aimlessly waiting where the wind will blow them. Unfortunately for Margo, she has uninspired parents to motivate her. They are like the paper cut-outs Margo described, who boxed themselves inside this very peculiar thing called normal life . They regard Margo's actions as rebellion . \"It is easy to forget how full the world is of people, full to bursting, and each of them imaginable and consistently misimagined.\" Margo, on the other hand, sees life as a colorful journey filled with dark abandoned buildings, knee-high grasses, endless road, moonlit roof and plenty of exhilarating risks. But all this is unknown to her family and friends. All her life, she has coated herself with a shell of Margo Stuff - the cool ones. It then became difficult for her to remove her coating and be herself. So the only option is to leave it all behind. But there is still one string attached to this papergirl \u2013 Quentin Jacobsen . She wants Q to know her; understand her; love her for who she is inside, no matter how crooked and unreasonable that Margo may be. \"The way I figure it, everyone gets a miracle.\u201d Q braved the challenge- he took the journey and accepted the would be consequences of it. Little did he know that this journey will not only lead him to Margo, but discover the Margo hiding within too. Thus, making him aware of his own capabilities and weaknesses. Knowing that he will succeed in finding his place in the world someday soon. And maybe, just maybe, he\u2019ll find Margo there as well. This book gets you to think about the idea of a person and the actual being of a person . Because, of course, it is rather unfair to be thought of as (just) a mere idea. My favorite part is the Vessel . It made me laugh out loud listening to Ben\u2019s pissing-in-beer-bottle scene. I had fun with this; I do hope you will too. ...more This book truly had me on an emotional roller coaster, and I enjoyed almost every minute of it. The book was broken into 3 parts, and I honestly felt completely different about each of them. Part 1: The first part of this book was brilliant. It was a lovely introduction to the characters, and their life as high school seniors. It has had a flashback which was a fun scene. The whole part with Q and Margo out at night was amazing. It was suspenseful and quite fun to read about those antics. We really This book truly had me on an emotional roller coaster, and I enjoyed almost every minute of it. The book was broken into 3 parts, and I honestly felt completely different about each of them. Part 1: The first part of this book was brilliant. It was a lovely introduction to the characters, and their life as high school seniors. It has had a flashback which was a fun scene. The whole part with Q and Margo out at night was amazing. It was suspenseful and quite fun to read about those antics. We really got a sense of how far Q would go to impress this girl, although I never really understood why he liked her so much in the first place. Not that there was anything wrong with Margo, but they went years without talking and still he's obsessed. Part 2: The second part of this book just dragged a bit for me. After the first little shocker of the \"smelling death\" incident it really seemed to slow down a lot. Firstly, I think too much emphasis was put on prom and preparation for something that was really a non-event for the main characters in the end. I just got tired of hearing about prom after so long. Also, finding her just seemed to get monotonous, but that might well be because I'm impatient so don't worry about that! Part 3: The final part of the book was love/hate. *Spoiler contains the ending...* (view spoiler) [The hate: I felt the ending was pretty anticlimactic. It was all leading up until they find her, right? I'm not going to lie I'm a sucker for drama and tragedy, but I wasn't necessarily hoping they would have found her dead in a shack, having committed suicide. After all of the talk about that I feel that would have been too obvious. I don't know I just finished the book and was like hmm that's the end? Well okay... The love: I love John's writing, and I adore his characters. I love how it ended solely because he keeps his characters genuine and true to themselves. He didn't portray them a certain way and then, at the end, abandon that and have them hook up anyway even though it wasn't best. So yes, I'm glad they went their separate ways. (hide spoiler) ] I definitely enjoyed this book, despite the few things I mentioned, and recommend it. ...more This sort of read is off the beaten track for me, non-fantasy YA-ish literature. That said, it's amazingly well-written, and I enjoyed it immensely. John Green is an amazing author, and he writes with a delicacy I admire and envy. This book, was sweet and light and heartbreaking and true. It's the sort of book I'll never be able to write... Highly recommended for anyone. Paper Towns Let's go back to March 2012. I bought The Fault in Our Stars, which had been getting rave reviews, causing me to make a fool of myself in public by jumping up and down in my local bookshop when I discovered I was holding a signed copy. (Don't worry, they're more than used to my behaviour by now.) I read it in the space of two days, and promptly had a crying fit so hard that I could have flooded the area where I live. Which is atop a very steep hill. (This sob-fest was unparalleled un Paper Towns Let's go back to March 2012. I bought The Fault in Our Stars, which had been getting rave reviews, causing me to make a fool of myself in public by jumping up and down in my local bookshop when I discovered I was holding a signed copy. (Don't worry, they're more than used to my behaviour by now.) I read it in the space of two days, and promptly had a crying fit so hard that I could have flooded the area where I live. Which is atop a very steep hill. (This sob-fest was unparalleled until I finished Patrick Ness' Chaos Walking trilogy, during which I fell asleep crying, then woke up to find my head resting on a very soggy pillow, and a hollow, empty feeling deep down inside that made me want to have a crying fit all over again.) But enough about me blubbering over books. Let's go back to blathering on about them, shall we?In July, I found that my five-county library service stocked three John Green books. Huzzah! I'd just have to wait for them to come in, and slowly wade my way through them as they trickled into my home away from home (and funnily enough, my workplace). The first book I received was Will Grayson, Will Grayson, which was a very cute story about two boys who share the same name, and wind up meeting each other, finding love, and putting on a musical. The story itself was quite sincerely told, but it didn't strike the right chord for me, hence why I'd give it 3.5/5 at best. Then I moved on to Looking for Alaska about a month later, and this one, I thoroughly enjoyed. It made me think, the love story was quite sweet, and I really loved Alaska as a character. She may have been a bit self-centred, but she was at least fun to read. This one got 5/5. Now, for the final one that arrived, wrapped in an old envelope and rubber band with my surname scrawled on it - Paper Towns. I'd heard lots of good things about this novel, and even though I was more aware of John Green's penchant for using Manic Pixie Dream Girls in his books, I thought Alaska was at least done well in Looking For Alaska, as was Augustus (a rare male example) in The Fault in Our Stars. So, let's stop dithering and take a look at Paper Towns. It is around this point I should mention that when reading, my mind should not be wandering off and creating a drinking game for the John Green books I have read. The rules will be revealed at the end of this review. Wink wink. Paper Towns certainly had me hooked within the first ten pages, which consists of a childhood flashback to our two main characters, Quentin and Margo, discovering a corpse in their local park. We then jump into a time skip (though preferably not the dumpster kind), where Margo and Quentin are at high school. Quentin is a band geek, and Margo flits around the popular kids, but happens to have a touch of eccentricity about her. She runs away from home, plays pranks, and likes leaving riddles whenever she goes off on one of her escapades. So, imagine Quentin's confusion when Margo enlists him and the use of his driving skills to play a series of pranks on the kids in the popular crowd. This takes up about... 70 to 80 pages, and it's a genuinely fun read, but where this novel really failed for me, was where Margo was suddenly taken out of the picture. I never quite clicked with Quentin or his friends, and so the investigation portion fell really flat for me. Margo also felt a lot like a plot device at certain points, rather than a character with a fleshed out personality. \u201cHey guys, she's gorgeous, eccentric, and has a talent for epic pranks, but now she's missing and we have to search for her, I guess.\u201d Every little new discovery did nothing for me, and I saw the blatant symbolic comparison between Moby Dick and Quentin's search for his own particular white whale way before he went: \u201cOh my god you guys, the pieces just completely clicked together for me just now.\u201d It has its funny moments, like in every John Green novel I've read (the line: \u201cBecause nobody can catch the motherfucking fox,\u201d as a character's reason for wearing a fox hat had me in stitches when reading Looking for Alaska), but they were quite sparse. So, with all this negativity I have spewed thus far about Paper Towns (and certain other John Green books I didn't enjoy), are there any good parts to Paper Towns? Well, there is that 70 or so page romp through the suburbs, playing pranks that become sillier and sillier as the night draws on, and the ending actually nicely subverts the Manic Pixie Dream Girl trope. Yes, Margo is actually revealed to be not as batty as rumour would have it, and her MPDG-ness is all just embellishments tacked onto her by school friends and Quentin's own delusions about how cool Margo is. It is to that, I truly doff my cap. It's also nice how it ended up relating to the title, even if the literal explanations of 'paper towns'/'copyright traps' (the idea that cartographers would add fake towns onto their maps so they'd know if another mapmaker had copied them) was rather weak. I also found that the author did accurately capture post-exam, between high school/college and university anxiety, especially when Margo essentially dresses down the whole concept of going to school so you can go to university so you can have a good job so you have support having children or a lavish lifestyle so you can retire and pass on your legacy. Margo thankfully became more likeable towards the end. Although the second act of the novel would sometimes trudge through the investigation into Margo's disappearance like a tortoise with wads of chewed up bubblegum on its feet, the ending does have a satisfying pay-off, and I would implore readers to give it a chance beyond the \u201cugh, god, another John Green novel with a Manic Pixie Dream Girl and a boring male lead.\u201d 3.5/5. Now, as promised, here is the patented John Green drinking game. ;)TAKE A DRINK/SHOT/SIP/WHICHEVER YOU PREFER EVERY TIME... 1. The words 'bro', 'awesome', 'dude', or Internet vernacular come up. 2. There is a reference to classical literature or poetry. 3. The Manic Pixie Dream Girl/Boy does something, well, manic. (Bonus sip if the characters figure out s/he has left clues after his/her disappearance.) 4. Indie bands, whether real or made up for the novel, are referenced. 5. Not just indie bands, actually \u2013 any kind of older music. 6. The Manic Pixie Dream Girl/Boy isn't actually around for much of the novel, but his/her presence is felt by the characters even after s/he's gone. 7. Our main character is an awkward teenage boy. 8. Our main character is a miserable teenage boy. 9. Our main character's friends are also dumb teenage boys, one of whom is a regular Casanova, and the other is a support crutch. 10. Instant messaging is used. 11. Things are listed like this: a) I was awkward, b) she was beautiful and clever and smart and funny, c) I had no chance in hell with her, d) she was probably going out with somebody else, even if she thought s/he was too mainstream for her. (Also, the drinking game is always open to suggestion. Have fun, though I am in no way liable for any alcohol-related injuries or illnesses if you so choose to play this drinking game whilst reading all of John Green's novels in one go. Just saying.) ...more Spoilers This was disappointing. I really don't know what the big deal is about John Green. Sure, The Fault in Our Stars was good but it was hardly a masterpiece and all his other books seem average at best. Why does he get so much love? Is it because he's a guy? I've noticed that most people tend to give men praise and credit even when it's not deserved (whilst the opposite is true for women). I honestly don't think John Green deserves all the fan love and respect he gets \u2014 his books are nothing Spoilers This was disappointing. I really don't know what the big deal is about John Green. Sure, The Fault in Our Stars was good but it was hardly a masterpiece and all his other books seem average at best. Why does he get so much love? Is it because he's a guy? I've noticed that most people tend to give men praise and credit even when it's not deserved (whilst the opposite is true for women). I honestly don't think John Green deserves all the fan love and respect he gets \u2014 his books are nothing special. I didn't enjoy Paper Towns all that much. The plot, the characters, the pacing and the writing were all mediocre. Paper Towns was divided into three parts: Part 1 : Boring and nerdy Quentin, is surprised when girl next door/girl who he's obsessed with climbs through his window and takes him on an all night adventure around town. Naturally, the girl (Margo) that geeky Quentin's been in love with for years is someone he hasn't talked to since he was a child and someone who just so happens to be beautiful, mysterious and popular. Hmm\u2026 Isn't it every nerdy guy's wish to get the attention of the beautiful girl? Why is it that nerdy, unattractive guys in books/movies/tv always seem to get the pretty girl yet there aren't any plain ugly girls getting the fit guy? Sure, there's the girls who think they're ugly but in actual fact are beautiful that get the fit guy and there's also the plain girl who gets a sexy makeover that gets the guy. But where the hell are the genuinely plain geeky girls that gets the sexy bad boy? Ugh. Double standards, will they ever end? Anyway, Margo wants to get back at her boyfriend and friend for cheating on her. I thought Margo would be some crazy badass but she wasn't. Quentin was even worse than Margo, he was scared about every little thing and Margo had to keep pushing him to loosen up and have some fun. I did like the role reversal \u2014 it's usually the heroine that's cautious and uptight until the hero struts into her life and makes her do crazy things. So yea, points for that. I thought Margo's revenge would be cool but it wasn't \u2014 it was the lamest revenge ever. Part 2 : Margo goes missing/runs away. Quentin worries and then worries some more and then keeps worrying. Margo leaves obscure clues to her whereabouts and Quentin becomes obsessed with them. He forces his friends (Ben the loser and Radar the token black guy) to help him find her. So yea, Quentin just goes back and forth visiting different places trying to find his pwecious Margo. In between looking for her, he gets all deep and profound about people and how they act and who they truly are. It read like an 'after school special'. Part 3 : Quentin and co miss their graduation and drive a really long way to find Margo. This was the most boring part of the book \u2014 it was just a long journey that involved Ben pissing, Radar being the token black guy, Lacey being the token female, and Quentin being a boring douche. The ending was really anticlimactic\u2026 The whole mystery of Margo was less a mystery and more a mess. Quentin was a dull and charmless character. He only seemed obsessed with Margo because of her beauty and popularity \u2014 it was a very shallow love and that in turn made the whole driving force of the book (Quentin's desire to know/find the real Margo) come across as false and meaningless. Ben was irritating \u2014 especially when he kept calling girls 'hunnybunnies'. I scoffed when he started dating Lacey - it just wasn't believable that someone like Lacey would date a lame loser like Ben. Radar and Lacey were the only likeable characters. Yea, Lacey was a cow at times but she was one of the good cows. Was I meant to care about Margo? 'Oh the poor little popular rich girl has pwoblems' \u2026 Honestly, I didn't care. I could have liked Margo if her problems weren't so lame\u2026 Yea, I'm sure some people would think she had a difficult life but to me she had it easy\u2026 Even with her cheating boyfriend and distant parents she had a pretty great life. All in all, I wasn't impressed. The plot was weak and I couldn't relate to Quentin or his pathetic infatuation with Margo. ...more 1. A bit of a confession, some of which I've never actually told anyone or said out loud before, but which I now share with the internets. In the interest of full disclosure, in high school I wasn't popular at all. If there were a popularity graph plotting popularity that looked like this: It wasn't that I was a pariah of some sort who was generally looked down on, I wasn't harassed by jocks or made to suffer any unnecessary indignities, I was an absolute non-entity. I had no friends, no enemies, 1. A bit of a confession, some of which I've never actually told anyone or said out loud before, but which I now share with the internets. In the interest of full disclosure, in high school I wasn't popular at all. If there were a popularity graph plotting popularity that looked like this: It wasn't that I was a pariah of some sort who was generally looked down on, I wasn't harassed by jocks or made to suffer any unnecessary indignities, I was an absolute non-entity. I had no friends, no enemies, I wasn't a part of anything. I was just there hating every moment of high school 2.0 (in continuing with full disclosure, my 'friendlessness' period was from mid November, 1989 through late January 1992, when I did something to make a friend, this something will be discussed shortly). So, unlike the character in this and pretty much every other book ever written about high school (no awkwardly funny side-kicks here) not even a little circle of close but good friends. But, like the character in this book, I was a clumsy shy dork who was totally infatuated with a girl who the could be described as cute, awesome and badass. By a series of actions of my part that the adult me sees as uber-creepy and stalkerish, but which at the time I thought was somehow appropriate and which is too embarrassing to share in the details, I asked her out in what she might not have known was meant as a date, and she said yes and we started to hang out and became really good friends over the next couple of months. I'm sure she realized, but I'm not actually sure, that I had a gigantic crush on her but nothing ever happened in that direction. Instead she started dating some other guy right around the time I got to know her and I became really good friends with both of them. Like the character in the book, the girl who I had this gigantic crush on and who was unintentionally making me a 'cooler' person just by spending time with her and her friends, she disappeared soon before I graduated from high school. (view spoiler) [If you've read the book, then I'll just come out and say that like Margo, my friend ran away from home, but unlike the dynamic in the book, I was part of the conspiracy that helped deceive her parents and get her on a bus to go halfway across the country, first to (yes, I'm serious) to a Rainbow gathering and then to San Francisco. (hide spoiler) ] I'm just saying this stuff to put it out there, that part of why I might have given this five stars is because a) it's a really good book but b) I could kind of read my own high school experiences in some of what happened. Like most people, when I think something is sort of about me, even though rationally I know it's not, I sometimes tend to like it better. 2. An aside about another John who makes things that I enjoy. The book starts with a quote from one of my favorite Mountain Goats songs, Game Shows Touch Our Lives .* The song is from one of my three favorite Mountain Goats albums, Tallahassee , a kind of bleak album about living in Florida strung out on booze and being in a bad relationship. The boys in Paper Towns drive around at one point with the radio blasting The Mountain Goats, and they have the windows down so that everyone can hear they have awesome taste in music. I find this somewhat unsettling, I want the characters in this book to have a brighter future than the Florida John Darnielle sings about on this album (but since when do smart kids listen to happy music?) Where is this going? I'm not exactly sure it seemed like a good idea when I started though...... oh right, I don't know if John Green had this song in mind at all, but one of the B-sides from a single off of this album is a song New Chevrolet in Flames , which sounds like it could have been an exploit orchestrated by Margo. There are actually quite a few points where Paper Towns and Tallahassee intersect, but now that I'm thinking of them there might be some spoilers. Neither work paint Florida in a very good light though. But does anyone really like Florida? *Fortunately for you and for me, I didn't share my cover version of the song. That would have been embarrassing, and I would have done it if I knew which external hard-drive had my songs on it, but I'm too lazy to start plugging and unplugging things right now. 3. On regrets and other things. This is all a spoiler. Seriously, if you haven't read the book and ever think you will read the book do not read this spoiler. If you are planning on reading this book and you read this spoiler you should email me and let me know when you are about to read or watch anything in the future so I can tell you how it ends before you do because you are a person who wants none of the excitement in not knowing how things are going to turn out. (view spoiler) [I'm not sure what I make of the ending of the book. It's a very mature ending, Q does the responsible thing and walks away from the girl of his dreams, who will probably turn out to be bat shit crazy or become some vapid Williamsburg hipster a few years down the road. As awesome and cool as Margo sounds she is probably headed for some banal or awful end. I kind of wanted one of those silly things they put at the end of movies sometimes where you are told what became of the characters after they all got in their cars and drove away from the paper town in the Catskills. Did Q regret going the conventional route? Does he kick himself in the ass twenty years later about what his life would have been if he had decided to ditch the Blue Devils for some quasi-hippie wandering around the country? Would Margo end up as some depressed husk of a person when she realized that there is no authentic place out there, and that she is trapped as the paper girl no matter where she goes? Are the people we choose to live our lives with more important that the trappings of our daily existence, the schools, the jobs, the towns we live in? I think this kind of thing is what puts people in therapy. (hide spoiler) ] 4. A small problem with the text. Opps, this is another spoiler. It's not that important, well as a plot point it is, but this is just me being an ass about some small detail in the book. It's not that important, but I get to feel superior by pointing it out. Number 5 will be spoiler-free. (view spoiler) [ This is a minor point, but it kind of changes a big part of the book. Q, has just found out where Margo is and he is telling Ben that he is going to drive to get to her before she leaves the town she is in at noon the next day. \"It's nineteen hours and four minutes away,\" I said into the cell phone. It was Radar's cell phone, but Ben had answered it. \"So what are you going to do? he asked. \"are you flying there?\" \"No, I don't have enough money, and anyway it's like eight hours away from New York City. So I'm driving.\" a) as we find out shortly, the cost of driving to Upstate New York from Orlando, Florida is pretty expensive. Gas aint cheap, and neither are the provisions needed to make the journey in one almost non-stop run. A plane ticket would probably be cheaper, I mean it's fucking Orlando there are always cheap flights to and from the Magic Kingdom. b) a town just outside of Woodstock is at most two and a half hours, but more likely two hours from NYC (depending on how far off the Thruway it is). A flight to Albany though, and then driving from Albany to Woodstock is about an hour. Eight hours from New York City heading North would put Margo's location somewhere about fifty miles North of Montreal, or by the New York Thruway out somewhere near Binghamton or Rochester. Q could have easily flown, although I don't know how an 18 year old would have rented a car. That would have been the problem, not the distance of Woodstock from New York City. (hide spoiler) ] 5. My favorite line from the book. For Karen. \"It's a penis,\" Margo said, \"in the same sense that Rhode Island is a state: it may have an illustrious history, but it sure isn't big.\" 6. Conclusion and apologies. I thought this review would be a good one, it's not. While reading the book I had what I thought were all these ideas of things to write and if they existed at all they disappeared when I sat down at the computer to write. If you read this far, I'm sorry to have wasted your time yet again. I think I may have something worthwhile to say at some point in the next year or so, but until then I'll just keep rambling on in these unfruitful book reviews. This book is soooo much better than this review. I recommend you read it. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This book as the others by this author has the John Green theme: 1. Awkward funny charismatic good looking fit main character who somehow is a looser. 2. The hot popular girl who he is forever in love. 3. A weird funny bestfriend who gets in trouble. 4. Prom. 5. Everything happening in the last 2 weeks of high school. 6. Quotes that every teenage tumblr girl has in their blog description. 7. Road trip 8. Some meaningful ending when you re-think all your teenage years and wish that this would have happened to yo This book as the others by this author has the John Green theme: 1. Awkward funny charismatic good looking fit main character who somehow is a looser. 2. The hot popular girl who he is forever in love. 3. A weird funny bestfriend who gets in trouble. 4. Prom. 5. Everything happening in the last 2 weeks of high school. 6. Quotes that every teenage tumblr girl has in their blog description. 7. Road trip 8. Some meaningful ending when you re-think all your teenage years and wish that this would have happened to you. ...more Going to stop this one at 25%... I'm just not able to get into it no matter how hard I try. Sigh. I love John Green books, but I'm not sure this is the one for me. I was disappointed in this book, especially since John Green is an author I've been meaning to read for some time now. He writes Young Adult novels ( Looking for Alaska [wherein \"Alaska\" is a girl's name], An Abundance of Katherines , to name a couple) and is both a popular and critical success. This is the first of his books that I've read, and I wish now that I'd started with one of his earlier ones. In a nutshell, this novel bored me. If I were a teenager (the novel's primary audience) reading t I was disappointed in this book, especially since John Green is an author I've been meaning to read for some time now. He writes Young Adult novels ( Looking for Alaska [wherein \"Alaska\" is a girl's name], An Abundance of Katherines , to name a couple) and is both a popular and critical success. This is the first of his books that I've read, and I wish now that I'd started with one of his earlier ones. In a nutshell, this novel bored me. If I were a teenager (the novel's primary audience) reading this book, it's doubtful that I would have finished it. Green failed to make me care. There were some interesting ideas sprinkled throughout (not that many of them, though), and some of the dialogue was entertaining (very much soon-to-be-dated teenspeak, as is often the case in YA lit), but I only actually liked one of the characters--Radar--and he wasn't the protagonist. Ouch. Mr. Green just didn't tell much of a story here, nor did he do any of the things that make me forgive a lack of story (experimenting with form; relating incredibly real characters, either likeable or not; achieving transcendent language/description; getting across startling or important ideas--none of these). I will, out of a sense of professional duty and based on the recommendations of people I trust, try one more of John Green's books--probably Looking for Alaska . But this heavily-marketed, much-heralded waste of dead trees? Don't bother. I only gave it two stars because of Radar. ...more I think John Green's books are just never going to be my thing. He's really intelligent and a solid writer, but something about the way he writes \"quirky\" girls and the same general formula has just gotten really old for me. Most of his characters annoy me and everything just seems unrealistic. So my 1 star rating is for my DNF and complete lack of interest... not for the quality of the book. Like I think a ton of people will love this book and already do, so I'll just leave it with: I'm out. My b I think John Green's books are just never going to be my thing. He's really intelligent and a solid writer, but something about the way he writes \"quirky\" girls and the same general formula has just gotten really old for me. Most of his characters annoy me and everything just seems unrealistic. So my 1 star rating is for my DNF and complete lack of interest... not for the quality of the book. Like I think a ton of people will love this book and already do, so I'll just leave it with: I'm out. My blog | Tumblr | Twitter | Instagram ...more \u201cNothing ever happens like you imagine it will.\u201d Well, I have to say, and please don\u2019t hate me, that was a lot better than The Fault in Our Stars! I mean A LOT BETTER! I liked Quentin in this story, and it was noble the way he was so intent on finding Margo, alive, or dead or somewhere in-between. I did wonder what he was doing at times, he should have been studying, he should have been attending graduation, he should have been doing a lot of things, but instead he was so obsessed with finding M \u201cNothing ever happens like you imagine it will.\u201d Well, I have to say, and please don\u2019t hate me, that was a lot better than The Fault in Our Stars! I mean A LOT BETTER! I liked Quentin in this story, and it was noble the way he was so intent on finding Margo, alive, or dead or somewhere in-between. I did wonder what he was doing at times, he should have been studying, he should have been attending graduation, he should have been doing a lot of things, but instead he was so obsessed with finding Margo! I mean this girl really got to him, and he proved what a loyal, caring person he really was. The storyline in this was split into three parts \u2013 the first part was Margo putting a very interesting plan into action, and allowed us to get to know her a bit. The second part was Quentin trying to work out where Margo had gone, and the third part was (view spoiler) [ Quentin actually trying to get to where he thought Margo was. (hide spoiler) ] Anyway, I understand what people mean when they say that this book is a bit deeper than it seems on the surface, and I have to say that I liked the mystery, I thought the story was well-constructed, and that last part was really quite gripping! And that ending! I liked it. Even though the very end made me wonder if they would change their minds? I liked it. So thanks to everyone that voted this to the number 1 spot on out Group Buddy Read Listopia List! I don\u2019t think I\u2019d have read this if it wasn\u2019t for you \u263a 8 out of 10[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more So this is my second John Green book, and my second accidental first edition of one of his books too: The focus of this novel is a girl named Margo, and the MC\u2019s (Quentin) obsession with her. Ever since they were kids, she\u2019s taken up residence in his thoughts and when they are teens and she brings him on her brilliantly planned night of revenge, he becomes hopelessly hooked on her. Margo is a mystery. She can get into anywhere, take anything she wants, and all the legends surrounding her turn out So this is my second John Green book, and my second accidental first edition of one of his books too: The focus of this novel is a girl named Margo, and the MC\u2019s (Quentin) obsession with her. Ever since they were kids, she\u2019s taken up residence in his thoughts and when they are teens and she brings him on her brilliantly planned night of revenge, he becomes hopelessly hooked on her. Margo is a mystery. She can get into anywhere, take anything she wants, and all the legends surrounding her turn out to be true. Before she goes missing she leaves clues for Quentin; following them ultimately changes his perspective on life in the last few weeks of his senior year. He\u2014accompanied by his two best friends and some girl one is dating\u2014skip graduation to drive from Florida to New York in search of Margo, only to have a bittersweet reunion. There were times that I was hoping they would arrive to find Margo had committed suicide; one really final and dramatic ending to her life, you know? Instead the audience finds that she had carried this story of her and Quentin with her in her notebook since they were kids and ultimately knew they can\u2019t really be together. It\u2019s more of a soft disappointment than anything, but this book is more about the journey more than the destination, amirite? Margo uses the term \u201cpaper\u201d to describe things that are insubstantial, whether it is buildings made of cheap materials or people who are basic. Like An Abundance of Katherines , Green continues his theme of living a life that matters; one that is whole and interesting and has an impact on others. ...more The more I think about this book the more I don't like it. I hated the ending. It made the entire book completely pointless. I do enjoy John Green's writing style, but I'm starting to get the feeling once you've read one of his books you've read them all. I'm probably gonna get a lot of WTF responses for saying this book was so overrated. But, it really was. Over. Freaking. Rated. Sorry, not sorry. I don't understand the hype really. Guys are so dumb. Girls are so dumb. I think it tried too hard to be \"deep\", which just made me cringe a lot. This is the third John Green book I've read and maybe I let myself have too high of an expectation but, ugh. Margo is so needy and annoying. Q is stupidly naive. Ben is silly, which I liked. Razor is the savin I'm probably gonna get a lot of WTF responses for saying this book was so overrated. But, it really was. Over. Freaking. Rated. Sorry, not sorry. I don't understand the hype really. Guys are so dumb. Girls are so dumb. I think it tried too hard to be \"deep\", which just made me cringe a lot. This is the third John Green book I've read and maybe I let myself have too high of an expectation but, ugh. Margo is so needy and annoying. Q is stupidly naive. Ben is silly, which I liked. Razor is the saving grace. ...more", "Title": "Paper Towns"},
