{"Comments": "I started reading this book and a curious thing happened. Suddenly my house was sparkling clean,<---M> my bills were filed away</---M>, I started playing Farm Story and reached level 13 in one day, I did my tax, I spent two hours chatting to the chatbott, Jabberwocky...Anything, and I mean ANYTHING to avoid the boredom of reading <+++>Shiver</+++>. <+++>Shiver</+++>, the story of a girl drastically into beastiality, only to find out her wolf lover was really a boy. As I read this book I had the strange urge to lock up my German s I started reading this book and a curious thing happened. Suddenly my house was sparkling clean, my bills were filed away, I started playing Farm Story and reached level 13 in one day, I did my tax, I spent two hours chatting to the chatbott, Jabberwocky...Anything, and I mean ANYTHING to avoid the boredom of reading Shiver. Shiver, the story of a girl drastically into beastiality, only to find out her wolf lover was really a boy. As I read this book I had the strange urge to lock up my German sheppard should <---C>Grace</---C> ever decide to visit my home because she really does fall in love with a dog... for YEARS before she ever finds out it's a boy or that things like werewolves exist. I can't even begin to express how creepy her obsession with a wolf is. I get the whole eternal love thing. Perhaps Stiefvater was trying to show that Sam and Grace's connection transcends all the things love actually isn't supposed to transcend. Maybe I'm just weird and completely unromantic, but I've never looked at Fido and found a kindred spirit. I never passed a dog down the street and found that I couldn't be attracted to men because they just weren't going to cut it for me anymore. So, other than the fact that this book disturbed the fucking hell out of me, bored me to death and dragged on like a visit to the old folk's home, it was also poorly edited.<---F> The writing wasn't TOO bad</---F>. Some of the poems were down right rubbish, and some of the others were alright. Grace and Sam's voices were near identical. Oh, and another thing, Sam was annoyingly chaste for way too long. Where were all of these careful, thoughtful boys when I was in high school? It's a disturbing trend, really. Edward Cullen, Sam Roth, Daniel Gregori... they all came pre-pussy whipped and I'm kind of wondering what the attraction is. Maybe I'm just a sucker for bad boys. Maybe I like boys that I COULDN'T imagine comfortably playing bridge with my 80 year old grandma (<---B>not to mention enjoying it!</---B>) What is with the sudden need to keep us women in line? If I read one more paranormal, male hunk refuse the supposed love of his life, who is literally flinging her naked body onto him, then I think I'm going to start a convention... a Ball Replacement Convention. C'mon, Stiefvater! Give the boy his balls back, please! He complained that a jacket made him look bulky! He wrote a poem about a leaking womb! What teenage boy doesn't shudder at the thought of menstrual blood? What next? Chipped nail, PMS cramps? Is he going to stamp his foot and mutter, \"Drat! I can't believe Jennifer is wearing the same dress as me! I think I might just die!\" Look, I know I'm being incredibly sexist. After all, it was kind of nice to read about a \"stoic\" female character and an emotional, gentle male character. But Sam felt and read far too much like a middle aged woman and not like a teenage boy. I didn't feel like he was well characterized or fleshed out enough. So all in all, I can't muster the energy to rant about this book. It was REALLY boring. It was average on the writing scale. It's secondary characterization was pretty good but the main characters didn't do it for me. The plot was SLOW. Her parents were stupid. I could complain that they were unrealistic - but I've met some fucked up parents over my life, so I'll buy that they really could be that moronic. What I will complain about is where they get this amazing and varied social life in a small town. It never explains why Sam's fate is mysteriously different to Jack's. Maybe I'm just stupid... No. I don't buy that. Was it because he was out in the freezing cold so it kept his temperature reasonable? Wouldn't that defeat the purpose of giving him a crazy-ass fever? Was it actually because he processed it as a wolf? Well that doesn't make sense because Grace never changed. And what's with the dramatic ending? Really? He gets cured and goes home and gets dressed and reads a few books, checks his mail, gives himself a mani and a pedi, goes on a diet, waits for his skin to clear up, buys the perfect set of shoes and THEN tracks down the love of his life who he thought he'd never see again? I DON'T FUCKING THINK SO! How about stumbling through the forest naked and desperately arriving in Grace's backyard because he can't believe the complete miracle of his cure and can't wait to have the love of his life back in his arms? Yeah, that ending makes so much more sense. I don't get why this is popular. But then, I don't get why Fallen is popular either. It's just all beyond me. Now I'm off to see if I can cram the word \"balls\" into this review anymore. Balls, balls, balls. Oh my goodness she fell in love with a dog! Balls. Balls. This review can also be found on my blog, Cuddlebuggery Book Blog . ...more Here's how I imagine Stiefvater's meeting with the publishing house. Stiefvater: I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a vampire! Publisher: Sorry, Maggie. That's been done before. Read Twilight . It's terrible ! Stiefvater: Oh. I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a zombie! Publisher: Sorry, Maggie. That's been done before. Read Generation Dead . It's terrible ! Stiefvater: Oh. I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a werewolf! Publisher: Bin Here's how I imagine Stiefvater's meeting with the publishing house. Stiefvater: I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a vampire! Publisher: Sorry, Maggie. That's been done before. Read Twilight . It's terrible ! Stiefvater: Oh. I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a zombie! Publisher: Sorry, Maggie. That's been done before. Read Generation Dead . It's terrible ! Stiefvater: Oh. I want to write a book about a girl who falls in love with a werewolf! Publisher: Bingo! Months later... Stiefvater: I wrote a book about a girl who falls in love with a werewolf! Publisher: ( reads a couple pages ) Maggie, this is terrible ! We'll take it! In what's becoming a distressing theme in young adult literature aimed at females, Stiefvater's Shiver follows a teenage girl who falls in love with a supernatural creature, and risks life and limb to be with him - oftentimes forgetting herself along the way. Love, after all, is something every girl needs. Truth is, though, I think <---A>Maggie Stiefvater</---A> might be a worse writer than Stephenie Meyer. Sure, Shiver lacks anything as truly awful as a vampire baseball game, but it does have a brooding protagonist (werewolf Sam) who writes unfathomably insipid lyrics to songs in his head. Check out this masterful sequence: She draws patterns on my face / These lines make shapes that can't replace / the version of me that I hold inside/ when lying with you, lying with you, lying with you. \"I like your hair,\" she said. (p. 157) Here's the deal, everyone. I'm going to write my own teenage supernatural love story. It will be sexy! And scary! And totally realistic! And I'm going to write it RIGHT NOW. 'CABRA by Joe Jessa woke up with a start. The pale sunlight filtered through the linen curtains, casting a soft glow on the chupacabra's skin, highlighting the sick, putty-colored spine. How had it gotten into her room? No matter. The glances that had passed between them in the desert earlier that day hadn't been in vain. Jessa swooned, casting a sultry look at the chupacabra. Her chupacabra. She reached out to it, and it ripped her fucking arm off. THE END ...more I read this book to the end so you don\u2019t have to. Shiver should come with a Surgeon General\u2019s Warning. I think all the purple prose has blacked out my eyes! Too bad the swelling didn\u2019t prevent me from noticing the ginormous plot holes. And I need some aspirin because my head aches from clenching my jaw as I am certain all the sappy sweetness contained in this adverb infested book was injected straight into my molars. I am very much at a loss as to how this book has received so many glowing revie I read this book to the end so you don\u2019t have to. Shiver should come with a Surgeon General\u2019s Warning. I think all the purple prose has blacked out my eyes! Too bad the swelling didn\u2019t prevent me from noticing the ginormous plot holes. And I need some aspirin because my head aches from clenching my jaw as I am certain all the sappy sweetness contained in this adverb infested book was injected straight into my molars. I am very much at a loss as to how this book has received so many glowing reviews. Am I missing something? Allow me to recount the story (for mood purposes, you need to know that the setting of this book is frigid, so, well, feel cold okay?) Moving on, Grace is 17 and in love with a golden eyed wolf that saved her when she was 11 and too weak and insipid to fight back for herself as wolves were attempting to consume her flesh. Unable to think of anything but her love for a wild dog, Grace is forever seeking out her wolf, trying to catch a glimpse of him or possibly make friends with him a la White Fang, only in a romantic way. Sounds disturbing right? Well brace yourself cause this wild dog is equally obsessed and in love with Grace, either due to the fact that she looked like an angel while lying in the snow, nearly catatonic and helpless or because his wolf self likes the stink of fear and uselessness. What follows is a story about how these two characters defy lame and dare I say \u201cborrowed\u201d werewolf lore, meet, cuddle, spout lame poetry and construct sad song lyrics. The best part of this book is the cover and the font, which sadly, had nothing to do with the author. There was one well done scene, and the description was able to establish the temperature of the setting which was pertinent to the plot. But the very thing that the author was good at, description, was one of the very worst things about Shiver . I have yet to meet, and I pray that I never will, a guy that describes himself as a \u201cleaky womb\u201d. I don\u2019t even know what that means, I guess he felt like a menstruating uterus which seems very strange. I have never eaten in a kitchen that smells like easy survival, nor liked the smell of armpit, or heard a guy call anything \u201chorribly cute\u201d, much less a pom pom hat, call me crazy. Also, I am sure this author doesn\u2019t like having her book compared to Twilight, but it seems as though she was attempting to cash in on its success. Aside from the whole temperature angle, the werewolf lore in this book reeked of Stephanie Meyer\u2019s werewolf lore, which was ludicrous, not to mention a major bore fest. Grace might as well have been a Bella cutout, though somehow not as interesting, which is a whole new low that I never would have thought possible. And Sam, well he is the werewolf version of Edward, only lacking in confidence, swoonworthiness, and talent. I\u2019m not going to lie, I had some aww moments, I\u2019ve already mentioned there being one very well done scene, and sometimes I would catch myself nearing a teary eyed state when Sam would talk about his dread of the impending winter. But those moments were usually massacred by extreme ridiculousness, childishness, pretentious poetry, and random outbursts of nonsensical song lyrics that were impossible to ignore. So YA readers, do yourself a favor, and avoid this book like the plague otherwise you may experience bruising of the retinas, sore teeth, and burnt fingers from turning all those frosty pages. Other side effects may include side stitches from laughing at extreme ridiculousness, random eye twitching and scratchy throat from asking WTH? more times than I can count. ...more To sum it up, this book should have been called \"Twilight: Team Jacob Version.\" Why? Well, while I understand that the author wrote her first draft of \"Shiver\" before \"Twilight\" came out, still, the similarities are striking. A boring girl whose only personality traits are obsessing about her supernatural boyfriend, doing homework and cooking dinner for her parents - check; an emo supernatural boyfriend whose life revolves around his human flame, who plays an instrument and writes songs for his To sum it up, this book should have been called \"Twilight: Team Jacob Version.\" Why? Well, while I understand that the author wrote her first draft of \"Shiver\" before \"Twilight\" came out, still, the similarities are striking. A boring girl whose only personality traits are obsessing about her supernatural boyfriend, doing homework and cooking dinner for her parents - check; an emo supernatural boyfriend whose life revolves around his human flame, who plays an instrument and writes songs for his girl - check; a boy and a girl sleeping in the same bed night after night and no matter how much this girl asks for \"it,\" the hero says \"no,\" because it's not \"right\" - check; parents, who are oblivious to the fact that their daughter practically has a live-in boyfriend - check. I can go on, but I am sure you get the picture. Why 2 stars and not less then? Well, the writing is not bad. It is a little \"purplish,\" but at least we are spared numerous \"chagrins\" and endless \"Edward is a beautiful god-like creature\" rants. I have to note here however, that although the writing and author's vocabulary are much better than Stephenie Meyer\u2019s, this book lacks that signature Twilight addictive quality (I can\u2019t believe I just wrote this because I am not even a Twilight fan!), the middle of the book is especially slow moving. The werewolf mythology, although very little explored, is based on a moderately novel idea of the transformation caused by changes in temperature. And finally, the main scorer is that Stiefvater manages to create in her book an atmosphere of coldness. You literally feel cold reading this book all the time. I have to give her some credit for this, I am sure it takes skill. Overall, it is an OK romance paranormal story (emphasis on \u201cromance\u201d here). I expect if you love \"Twilight,\" you'll like this book too. I personally didn't care for it much. There are 2 more books in this series, but I doubt I'll be reading them. Reading challenge: #1 - S ...more Lovely, lyrical, and achingly sad. Shiver is more introspective than most YA books and is sometimes criticized for being too slow or wordy, but I found it to be beautifully written, tragic, and a gorgeous take on werewolf lore. Sam's desperate struggle to hold onto his humanity is incredibly poignant, and his heartrending relationship with Grace is deeply emotional and sweet. It's a book that makes me cry every time I read it. Sam cupped my face in his hands and looked me in the eyes. His eyes we Lovely, lyrical, and achingly sad. Shiver is more introspective than most YA books and is sometimes criticized for being too slow or wordy, but I found it to be beautifully written, tragic, and a gorgeous take on werewolf lore. Sam's desperate struggle to hold onto his humanity is incredibly poignant, and his heartrending relationship with Grace is deeply emotional and sweet. It's a book that makes me cry every time I read it. Sam cupped my face in his hands and looked me in the eyes. His eyes were yellow, sad, wolf, mine. \"These stay the same. Remember that when you look at me. Remember it's me. Please.\" PS--this book is NOTHING like Twilight , despite the inevitable comparisons because of the subject matter. It's in a class all its own. ...more Who is publishing these horribly written YA novels? Who? (every publisher, ever) And more importantly, why? (for tons of cash) First off, I didn't finish this book. I couldn't finish this book. I couldn't get 1/4 of the way through, even though I have the audiobook. Actually not only is this book boring as hell but the audiobook was poorly cast (more on that later). This is another book I picked up because of the pretty cover. *kicking self, a lot* I have to admit the premise sounded interesting Who is publishing these horribly written YA novels? Who? (every publisher, ever) And more importantly, why? (for tons of cash) First off, I didn't finish this book. I couldn't finish this book. I couldn't get 1/4 of the way through, even though I have the audiobook. Actually not only is this book boring as hell but the audiobook was poorly cast (more on that later). This is another book I picked up because of the pretty cover. *kicking self, a lot* I have to admit the premise sounded interesting--not long before this book crossed my path I'd finished reading Blood and Chocolate, which is, overall, somewhat enjoyable even if it is a little weird--so I just had to read it. But guess what? Not an interesting story. Not even kind of. The coupling in this book? Bizarre. Boring--I mean, really boring . Sam doesn't think like a guy. Not even a little. Sam thinks like a woman. A really boring older woman. No guy throws on a puffy coat and thinks \"I look like a blimp in this thing.\" No heterosexual guy. No way. Not ever. I can't help but wonder if Sam ever gets around to asking Grace if his pants make his butt look fat. But I digress. Grace is Boring. Not only that but she's also insipid, and irritating. Did I mention mind-numbingly boring? So just to review: Grace: She's Bella Swan's evil, but oh-so-very-boring twin. And the character named Isabella (I think that's her name), that, like, pisses herself? WTF??? WHY? Seriously, WHY? It's because of the pissing scene that I stopped paying attention to the audio book. Sure, every once in a while I caught snippets of the story. But none of it was interesting. So eventually I turned it off and cursed Audible for having a no return policy--sure, it totally makes sense. But still. Tangent: Look, I wasted one of my audible credits on this piece of trash. I can't resell it, or even trade it for something better. I'm pissed. Speaking of the audio book: like I said earlier it was horribly cast. The female narrator sounds like a fourteen-year-old girl. And the male narrator sounds like my old elementary school gym coach. The one that sorta looked like a child molester--you know what I'm talking about, everyone had a coach like that. Everyone. Needless to say, the audio book gave me heebies from the get go. I couldn't help but picture some ninth grade girl--because, like I said, she sounds quite young--flirting with her disgusting teacher (who has a mustache and wears tiny gym shorts). I'm still traumatized. So yeah, I advise you don't read this book. And definitely don't buy the audio book. If you do, don't say I didn't warn you. That is all. ...more Trolls: You are welcome to comment on my review. I won't delete your comments. Curse my name, curse my mother, I don't care. But please, don't forget to leave a comment. And make sure to send my review to all of your friends. And the award for worst book of 2009 goes to: Shiver What makes this book so bad, you may ask? Well, in layman's terms, I'm going to give a logical, detailed explanation as to why Shiver sucks--alliteration unintentional. 1. Grace Grace has to be the worse heroine ever. Excuse Trolls: You are welcome to comment on my review. I won't delete your comments. Curse my name, curse my mother, I don't care. But please, don't forget to leave a comment. And make sure to send my review to all of your friends. And the award for worst book of 2009 goes to: Shiver What makes this book so bad, you may ask? Well, in layman's terms, I'm going to give a logical, detailed explanation as to why Shiver sucks--alliteration unintentional. 1. Grace Grace has to be the worse heroine ever. Excuse this comparison, but she's worse than Bella Swan. Grace treats her friends, her parents, and her schoolmates like dirt. This isn't true, you say. Grace is caring, wholesome, and ever so devoted to Sam. Keyword here: Sam. She cares for no-one but her wolf . Excuse me while I gag. She treats Rachel and Olivia like they're pets. She never spends time with them. She has to remind herself that they're her friends. She ignores them in favor of a wolf. A wolf that tried to eat her . I know that many girls are offended when their best friend ignores them to spend time with a guy. How would you feel if they ignored you for an animal? Keep in mind that for the first 1/3rd of Shiver, Grace doesn't know that Sam is a werewolf. Grace is unable to empathize with anyone. Let me give you an example. Not because the attention bothered me, but because every time someone remembered I was dragged from my tire swing, they remembered it could happen to anyone. And I wondered how many someones it would take before they decided to go after the wolves. To go after my wolf. I knew this was the real reason why I couldn\u2019t forgive Jack for dying. You can say that this quote is taken out of context. It doesn't matter. The fact that she thinks like this is disgusting. This girl was attacked by wolves when she was six. Yet, for whatever reason, she's in love with one of the wolves who tried to eat her. Does this make any sense? No. Here's Sam's thoughts, straight from the book. I could smell her blood, a warm, bright scent in this dead, cold world. I saw Salem jerk and tremble as he ripped at her clothing. My stomach twisted, painful\u2014it had been so long since I\u2019d eaten. I wanted to push through the wolves to stand next to Salem and pretend that I couldn\u2019t smell her humanness or hear her soft moans. She was so little underneath our wildness, the pack pressing against her, wanting to trade her life for ours. Very romantic. He wanted to eat his true love the first time he saw her. And Grace, for whatever reason, loves him. It's not like he saved her from being eaten. Trolls: You want to know the reason why Shiver gets compared to Twilight so frequently? Because it pales in comparison to Twilight. Make no mistake: I hate Twilight. But this is worse. Back to Grace. She feels no sympathy for the boy who was killed by the wolves. He might have been a jerk, but that is no excuse. Grace, out of everyone in that town, should know what it's like to nearly die. She should be consoling Isabelle, and Isabelle's parents. Instead, she continues to think about her wolf . If Sam had saved her, that would be something else entirely. But in the land of YA, preventing yourself from eating someone, or killing someone-- Edward and Patch--is the first sign of true love. How romantic. Grace is also a jerk to Isabelle--my favorite character in the god awful book. Keep in my that: 1. Isabelle loved her brother. 2. She doesn't want to think he's dead. 3. Everyone knows that Grace has a special connection with the wolves. 4. Jack's body is missing and the wolves attacked him. Isn't it reasonable to assume that Grace knows something? Instead, Grace tries to keep her out of the know to protect her wolf . Apparently, a wolf is more important than a human being. Don't get me wrong. I love dogs. But if it came down to my dog or someone's brother, that dog would be gone in a millisecond. Even if Grace knew that her wolf was a werewolf, it doesn't matter. She's known Jack and Isabelle her entire life. She's known Sam for a few days. Not even Bella Swan is that selfish. 2. Sam Sam is worse. I hate him. You want to know why? His existence as a boy is illogical. He's not supposed to remember his time as a wolf right? Yet he remembers Grace. I believe I started hating him the first time he appeared as a boy. He's rude to Rachel and Olivia. He's supposed to be a cashier. He's supposed to be helpful and nice. Instead, he ignores his customers and proceeds to ogle Grace. He continues his bad customer service into book two. He's rude to Isabelle, even though her brother just died. And he survived! He's worse than Sam Uley. At least Sam Uley had no choice. He had to imprint on Emily. It was fate. Whatever he does isn't his fault. Sam, on the other hand, is a whiny emo. He writes horrible poetry. He writes horrible songs. He sounds like the kind of boyfriend a sixteen year old girl would write into her self-insert fan fictions. Oh, and he does have a Leah. Shelby. I know they aren't involved. I know Shelby is kind of crazy. But that's no excuse to treat her the way Sam does. He ignores her. Much like Damon does Drina in Evermore, an equally bad book. 3. The Purple Prose Cool air bit my cheeks and pinched at the tops of my ears, reminding me that summer was officially over. My stocking cap was stuffed in the pocket of my coat, but I knew my wolf didn\u2019t always recognize me when I was wearing it, so I left it off. I squinted at the edge of the yard and stepped off the deck, trying to look nonchalant as I did. The piece of beef in my hand felt cold and slick. I crunched out across the brittle, colorless grass into the middle of the yard and stopped, momentarily dazzled by the violent pink of the sunset through the fluttering black leaves of the trees. This stark landscape was a world away from the small, warm kitchen with its comforting smells of easy survival. Where I was supposed to belong. Where I should\u2019ve wanted to be. But the trees called to me, urging me to abandon what I knew and vanish into the oncoming night. It was a desire that had been tugging me with disconcerting frequency these days. 4. The Pacing This story is slow and boring. Nothing happens. What's the plot? Where's the conflict? 5. The Romance Sam and Grace have no chemistry. None. If you find some, please tell me. I'm not finding any. Sam, our resident leaky womb, and Grace, our insensitive twit, share no hobbies. Heck, Sam has more chemistry with her mother. Why do they love each other? I don't know. 6. The Characterization What characterization? 7. The Conclusion (view spoiler) [Apparently, Jack dies so Sam can live. What sort of sick shit is this? Our moral? True love is better than family. (hide spoiler) ] 0.5 stars, because I liked Rachel, Olivia, Isabelle, and Grace's mom. If you liked this book, you'll like The Time Traveler's Wife . It's an equally stupid, vapid piece of crap for women. And it has some child grooming action. ...more This is a different take on werewolves, and I really liked it. Grace and Sam first meet when she is eleven, and attacked by his pack of wolves. He was a wolf and for some reason he didn\u2019t understand, he saved her and took her away from the attack. Grace has been fascinated by this yellowed eyed wolf ever since. Her backyard touches the forest, so she is able to observe the wolves all winter. These wolves shapeshift based on the temperature changes of the seasons. During summer, they are human an This is a different take on werewolves, and I really liked it. Grace and Sam first meet when she is eleven, and attacked by his pack of wolves. He was a wolf and for some reason he didn\u2019t understand, he saved her and took her away from the attack. Grace has been fascinated by this yellowed eyed wolf ever since. Her backyard touches the forest, so she is able to observe the wolves all winter. These wolves shapeshift based on the temperature changes of the seasons. During summer, they are human and during winter they are wolves. Unlike other \u2018were\u2019 stores I\u2019ve read, when these are in wolf form, they do not continue to have human thoughts and emotions--they are all animal. As a wolf, Sam doesn\u2019t remember his human life. The first time he meets Grace as a human, (he is 18, she is 17) she finds him shot and bleeding on her back deck. He\u2019s a naked boy, and it\u2019s freezing outside. She brings him in, and helps him out and quickly realizes that this is her wolf. His yellow eyes give him away. We just have to go with the flow that this is a story and she just immediately believes in werewolves. Her parents are pretty much absentees, so she is able to keep Sam in her room for quite a while before they even know he has been there. Sam is running out of time because this is his last season as a human before he becomes a wolf for the rest of his life. He doesn\u2019t tell this to Grace at first, and he just wants to spend as much time with her as he can. Oh yes--Grace was bitten by a wolf years ago, wasn\u2019t she? Why has she not changed into a wolf? Is she going to? Meanwhile, some other kids have been bitten by wolves, and there is a really good subplot going on with good side characters. Ok, I'm rambling and not really saying what I want to say. I will just stop now. Check out some of the other reviews on this one. You can feel their sadness as the time ticks by. I really liked it, and I look forward to the second in this series. ...more 6.5 stars! I don\u2019t know how to review a book that took my breath away. Shiver left me with a feeling of complete satisfaction, joy spiced with sadness - as weird and paradoxical as that sounds. I\u2019m so grateful to have read this book after all\u2026 There aren\u2019t many books on my 'books that changed me' shelf. In fact, there were only seven until today. But Shiver deserved its place, and now there are eight. What\u2019s so special about it? I\u2019ll try to be polite and refrain from gushing, but it won\u2019t be easy 6.5 stars! I don\u2019t know how to review a book that took my breath away. Shiver left me with a feeling of complete satisfaction, joy spiced with sadness - as weird and paradoxical as that sounds. I\u2019m so grateful to have read this book after all\u2026 There aren\u2019t many books on my 'books that changed me' shelf. In fact, there were only seven until today. But Shiver deserved its place, and now there are eight. What\u2019s so special about it? I\u2019ll try to be polite and refrain from gushing, but it won\u2019t be easy. Boy saves girl, girl falls for a boy and they end up living happily ever after. Only the boy isn\u2019t a boy at all, and the happily ever after is meant for some other people, in some other story. I was suddenly struck by how dissimilar we were. It occurred to me that if Grace and I were objects, she would be an elaborate digital clock, synced up with the World Clock in London with technical perfection, and I\u2019d be a snow globe \u2013 shaken memories in a glass ball. Grace is an amazing character! I love how strong and decisive she is, always scared but never really showing her fear. She reminds me of a girl I used to be know. After the way she surrendered to the wolves at the beginning, I was afraid she would be another one of those characters. But only a few chapters later, a huge white she-wolf showed up at her window, and instead of cowering in some corner, Grace snarled back at it! Not many authors can make you feel such pride at the very beginning of a novel! When can you say for sure that you\u2019ve fallen in love with someone\u2019s writing? If your mind isn\u2019t registering words at all, but sounds and colors and emotions so strong that you can feel them twirling inside of you, beautiful, agonizing and powerful.... that\u2019s it \u2013 you\u2019re in love! I know this because it happened to me with Maggie Stiefvater. Obviously not everyone feels the same way, and that\u2019s ok. There are times when I too appreciate a very different writing style, more economical and crisp. But sometimes I just want to marvel at other people\u2019s talent, and Stiefvater gave me that chance. I\u2019m pretty sure Shiver will become my comfort book, familiar and soothing like the blanket I wrap myself in when I\u2019m not feeling well. There are only a few books I keep going back to: The Master and Margarita when I need to restore my faith in love, Dolores Claiborne when I need courage, Harry Potter when I need optimism, lately I\u2019ve added The Reapers Are the Angels for when I need strength, and now I have Shiver to remind me that there\u2019s beauty everywhere. ...more The bestiality was definitely the most beautiful part of this story. It may seem obvious to you that such would be the case, but it was not obvious to me. I am not typically a fan of falling in love with dogs. There was truly something surreal and creepy about that part of this story that grabbed me, though. If only this had been a short story about one girl\u2019s creepy obsession with wolves, I think I could have really liked it. It starts out with a ghostly beauty that is legitimately respectable. The bestiality was definitely the most beautiful part of this story. It may seem obvious to you that such would be the case, but it was not obvious to me. I am not typically a fan of falling in love with dogs. There was truly something surreal and creepy about that part of this story that grabbed me, though. If only this had been a short story about one girl\u2019s creepy obsession with wolves, I think I could have really liked it. It starts out with a ghostly beauty that is legitimately respectable. And it ends with the same stark, Midwestern haunting feeling. But, the middle of this story is really, really douchey. It\u2019s like when your friend falls in love, and it\u2019s fun to talk about the boy she likes for a little while; and then your eyes glaze over, and she\u2019s still talking; and then you get a little uncomfortable about the obscene level of detail she\u2019s giving you (about what they ate for breakfast and how their elbows touched like fifty times, nothing exciting), and she\u2019s still talking ; and then you realize that both she and her boyfriend are morons, and you were wrong to have been friends with her to begin with. But didn\u2019t she say something pretty about trees once? I just wanted these kids to get a room, and then they did get a room, but kept telling me about everything. Gag. It was like being the third wheel in a makeout session that lasted foooooreeeeveeeer. One of the most boring, boring, boring stories ever. And, man, the guy is such a douchebag. He\u2019s, like, composing douchey poetry while they\u2019re making out and stuff. Like, just make out if you\u2019re going to make out. I don\u2019t want to know about any of these things. And I certainly don't want to hear your douchey poetry. Talk about a Shelley complex. And, I listened to it on audio, so I couldn\u2019t skim. The audio wasn\u2019t bad, other than how boring this story was. I mean, I wanted to read my administrative law cases sometimes while I was listening to this. That\u2019s how boring it was. Then there was a really douchey interview with the author at the end of the CDs. Oh, man. She was talking about how she wrote this book to make her audience cry. Fail. For me, at least. So, the narrative in the book goes back and forth between the boyfriend perspective and the girlfriend perspective. That kind of makes sense to me as a device, but I always get caught up in thinking about narrative voices. Like, in first-person narratives, I have to create a background story in my mind for how the characters decided to write the book. It just seems like such a douchey thing for a boyfriend and girlfriend to impose their sappy story in the world and think it\u2019s a good idea. Also, in this case it doesn\u2019t really make sense because they make it out like the girl practically doesn\u2019t speak English and only understands numbers, but her narrative has the more beautifully written moments in the book. That\u2019s a petty complaint, but it\u2019s true. There is a thing about evil parents in here that I like, though. I liked how the kids reacted to the horror of their parents but didn\u2019t seem to hold it against them. All of the parents were interesting to me, and they actually came off as nuanced. They were very villainous, but I think I like villainous, unreliable parents in stories. They are interesting to read about. If only this whole book had been about the parents. Because, as it was, this experience was like only reading about the pastoral couple in Anna Karenina . So. Boring. Did I mention that this is a boring book? That is your takeaway message. ...more I probably should wait a little bit to write this review, but I can't! I guess I will start out with saying that this book drew me in from the moment I laid eyes upon it. The book cover is breathtaking. Even when I opened the first page of the book I was still taken back by how simple and beautiful it was. Yet, I can not judge a book just by its cover. I am not sure I can even find the words to describe how much I loved this book. It gave me an amazing feeling throughout the whole entire book. F I probably should wait a little bit to write this review, but I can't! I guess I will start out with saying that this book drew me in from the moment I laid eyes upon it. The book cover is breathtaking. Even when I opened the first page of the book I was still taken back by how simple and beautiful it was. Yet, I can not judge a book just by its cover. I am not sure I can even find the words to describe how much I loved this book. It gave me an amazing feeling throughout the whole entire book. From the first page to the last page. It put me in a trance, and I felt so much emotion from all the characters. I think the love between Sam and Grace is so beautiful and pure. It probably is one of the best young adult couples I've ever had the pleasure of reading about. When I read about them I found myself saying \"Edward and Bella who?\"! This book wrapped me up in it's love, and I think Maggie Stiefvater has one of the most beautiful writing styles I've read in my twenty-two years of living (or at least my eighteen years of reading). I could go on forever and a day about how this novel blew me away, but I suppose that I will end with this: Linger is now the book I am most excited for in 2010. Blog | Twitter | Tumblr | Instagram | Youtube | Twitch ...more Note: After rereading this review, I decided to make some changes. While I stand by my opinions, I was unhappy with some of the ways in which I chose to voice them. The language of this review has been edited, however, the opinions are unchanged. I read Shiver because it was recommended to me by someone who wasn't impressed with Twilight and insisted this was better. Well, it's not, although I wouldn't go as far as to say it's worse. Mostly, I was bored to tears by the lack of a solid plot and su Note: After rereading this review, I decided to make some changes. While I stand by my opinions, I was unhappy with some of the ways in which I chose to voice them. The language of this review has been edited, however, the opinions are unchanged. I read Shiver because it was recommended to me by someone who wasn't impressed with Twilight and insisted this was better. Well, it's not, although I wouldn't go as far as to say it's worse. Mostly, I was bored to tears by the lack of a solid plot and superfluous descriptions. Sam(antha) There were so many problems with this novel but the most egregious one was the fact that a boy, Sam, not short for Samantha, sounded like a woman. Here are a couple examples of Sam's girlish thoughts: 1) \"I found a puffy, bright blue jacket that made me look like a blimp...\" 2) \" 'I don't even know what they are. Probably a million calories.' \" Guys do not have the same preoccupation with weight that girls do and if they were to complain about their weight they would never use the language Sam uses to describe themselves. I might have bought the second quote if Sam were extremely overweight and counting calories but he'd not and he isn't. 3) \"synonym for the word intercourse\" No guy in his own head would ever use the word intercourse to describe sex. No way, no how. Teenspeak The teenage characters in this novel sound much older than they actually are. That said, I'm also not a fan of books like Marked by P.C. Cast and Kristin Cast that make all teenagers sound like airhead valley girls. However, it is possible to polish a teenager's grammar a bit without making them sound more than a decade older than they are, or like they're from a different century. Some examples from Sam: 1) \"It was a terribly cute noise.\"/\" 'It's horribly cute.' \" Not only does he not sound like a teenager, but it's another example of how he sounds feminine. 2) \" 'Did he slather a lot when he was in school?' \" Who uses the word slather in that context? Even worse, what teenager uses the word slather? And it's bad enough that Sam uses the word, but it's worse that Grace a) knows what it means, and b) doesn't think it's odd that he's using the word. 3) \" 'Did you tell that man you went potty on yourself?' \" What teenager, male or female, would say \"went potty\"? More likely, a teenage boy would say \"Did you tell that guy you pissed yourself?\" Later on Sam tells Grace that he's going to \"wet himself\" which is slightly better except that Sam tells this to Grace as a way of saying he is nervous to meet her parents. I can't imagine a situation in which any person, male or female, teen or adult, would whisper that in someone's ear unless they really had to go to the bathroom and needed that person's assistance in getting there. Of the same mind Another issue I had with this novel was that although it was written from two different perspectives both characters sounded exactly the same. I'm a firm believer that if an author uses first person narration and switches between different characters' points of view, then each character should each have a distinctive voice (especially if they're two different genders). If I didn't look at the chapter headings\u2014and sometimes I would forget\u2014I didn't know whose point of view I was reading. Sometimes, I was so bored, I'd drift away and when I returned back to the book I couldn't remember if it was Sam or Grace speaking. Purple Prose A final note about the writing style. The prose was very purple. Although there were some nice descriptions, there were far more instances where they were overwrought and bogged down the story. I would put an example but there are just too many parts to choose from. I will say that the writing in this novel was superior to the writing in the Twilight Saga . The sentence structure was generally correct and the inappropriate words were used in grammatically correct ways for the most part. Grace In addition to my dislike for the writing style, I also had a lot of problems with the characterization. I found Grace to be extremely unlikable and unsympathetic. Her lack of empathy for anyone other than herself and Sam was appalling. In one example, Grace says: \"Mercy Falls was all about rumors, and the rumor on Jack was that he got his short fuse from his dad. I didn\u2019t know about that. It seemed like you ought to pick the sort of person you would be, no matter what your parents were like.\" Grace hears rumors that Jack was being abused by his father and she shows no empathy for him. (view spoiler) [The only way for Jack to have acquired anger management issues from his father is if he were on the receiving end of it or if he had witnessed it, both of which would be very traumatic to a child. Anger management problems tend to be pervasive so it's very likely that if Jack's father has a short fuse in public, he probably also has a short fuse with his family. (hide spoiler) ] While people need to be held accountable for their own actions, Grace's lack of concern is overly callous. Let's not forget that Grace also can't forgive Jack for dying because his death threatens her precious wolves. Never mind the fact that her wolves were actually the cause of his supposed death. No matter how awful a person Jack was, it hardly justifies being savaged by wild animals. Grace is also a terrible friend. At least Bella didn't have any good friends to ignore for Edward. Bella only ditched her friends of a couple months, who she never liked that much to begin with, to hang out with her stalker boyfriend and his beautiful wealthy friends. Grace has been friends with Olivia and Rachel for years and still she puts her wolf ahead of them. Then she completely abandons them once Sam becomes human. Her failure as a friend really comes out in the end when she learns that Olivia has been bitten and is going to change into a werewolf because of Grace no less. Yet all Grace can think about is Sam. There is a two second thought of Olivia and then it's Sam Sam Sam. Well rounded people who care about more than just themselves and their significant others can be concerned about more than one person at a time. Olivia then remains absent from Grace's thoughts for a while, and when Grace finally does remember her, she's selfishly lamenting that Olivia isn't there to help her deal with her grief over losing Sam. She's not the least bit concerned about Olivia turning into a werewolf. Once again, Grace only thinks about herself and Sam. Sam Sam was no better than Grace in terms of his treatment of others. Here's my favorite example: \"I thought\u2014vaguely hoped\u2014that [Jack] died too, and ceased to be a problem.\" He actually hopes that Jack has died so he won't have to deal with him. At this point, Jack's only crimes are being a bully at school, showing up at the school in wolf form, and being hated by Grace. There was absolutely no reason to wish he were dead. Sam also lacks proper empathy for Shelby in the same way that Grace lacks proper empathy for Jack. He knows about her past and yet he doesn't seem to really care. He only brings it up when he's trying to explain why she prefers being a wolf. This attitude is much more understandable once she attacks Grace later on in the book. Shelby is the Rosalie/Leah character of Shiver , only less sympathetic despite having a more traumatic past because she tries to kill Grace for no good reason. If Shelby's relationship with Sam had been more fleshed out and her past better explored, then it would have seemed more understandable and Shelby would have been a more complex character. Instead, she's a simplistically evil werewolf. Parenting This book is full of unrealistically terrible parents. Without some sort of mental illness, developmental delay, or drug habit, no parents are as neglectful as Grace's parents are. My issue is not that Grace's parents are absent (I've seen worse parenting, unfortunately), but that there was no reason given for their neglect. Having worked with neglectful parents I can tell you there is always a reason. How is it possible that Grace's father could have left her in a hot car and forgotten about her while she was sick? I know that people do sometimes leave their infants and young children in the car and forget about them, usually when they're sleep deprived from being kept awake all night or because they're on drugs, but I have never heard it happening with an older child when the parent is sober. It was especially unrealistic because Grace was sick and her parents were preoccupied with her. And where was Child Protective Services (CPS)? The hospital staff are mandated reporters and would've had to have reported this neglect to social services. I'd say Grace's parents' neglect/flightiness is about as realistic as Bella's clumsiness. What's worse is that child abuse and neglect are very serious issues and shouldn't be handled as carelessly as it is in this book. Description I also had a problem with lack of description in this novel. Although there were plenty of useless descriptions in all of the purple prose, some very important ones were left out, particularly with regard to the characters. Often times characters weren't described in a timely manner if they were described at all. For example, I thought the members of the wolf pack were closer in age to Sam than they actually were for a large part of the book because there was no indication given of their ages until halfway through the book. Grace is never fully described, making it hard to get a clear picture of what she looks like, and Beck isn't described until the very end despite being mentioned numerous times throughout the novel. We also never get a good description of the other wolves. Paul is simply described as \"dark\". What does that mean? I need more than that to picture a character. There are several other instances where non-descriptive words are used to describe people. At one point, Sam thinks while he's watching Jack, \"Something about the way he carried himself suggested overconfidence.\" \"Something\" is not descriptive. I want to know what it is about Jack that makes him seem arrogant. His saunter, his cocky smile, etc. Another example of this is when Sam is described as having an \"interesting-shaped nose\". Again, I don't know what that means or how it looks. And those are just three examples taken from many. As far as description goes I have two parting words: \"Leaky womb\" Romance The romance is terribly contrived and unoriginal. There is no build-up. Grace and Sam love each other from the moment they meet (while he's a wolf) and they stay in love with each other until the very last page. Their love doesn't grow because there's now where for it to grow to. The only growth in their relationship is in terms of physical contact. Plot, or lack thereof This review is already too long but I will briefly say that the plot of this book, much like Twilight , takes a backseat to the romance. Finding a cure for being a werewolf should have been an integral part of the story, yet it isn't explored until the second half of the novel. Most of the book is spent describing Sam and Grace's love which I had a hard time buying into because there was no build up. Lyrics Lastly, the song lyrics were really bad. Poetry and song lyrics are difficult to add to a novel and unless a writer is very skilled at that sort of writing, they should be left out. Stiefvater is definitely not a song writer. ...more I can sum this book up in one sentence: Beautiful writing that cannot make up for the Twilight-esque depiction of creepy love interest and boring main character. I would, however, happily try out some of the author's other work and I just hope it doesn't focus so heavily on obsessive emo teen love. Shiver is narrated by the alternating points of view of Sam and Grace, two unbelievably different people drawn together by the power of love and devotion. When Grace was little, she was attacked by a pack of wolves but miraculously survived due to a certain yellow-eyed wolf's protection. Now her growing fascination is fixated on the wolves of Mercy Falls. Sam isn't a human for as long as he would like to be. When the temperature drops and winter arises, he painfully transforms into a wolf. Howeve Shiver is narrated by the alternating points of view of Sam and Grace, two unbelievably different people drawn together by the power of love and devotion. When Grace was little, she was attacked by a pack of wolves but miraculously survived due to a certain yellow-eyed wolf's protection. Now her growing fascination is fixated on the wolves of Mercy Falls. Sam isn't a human for as long as he would like to be. When the temperature drops and winter arises, he painfully transforms into a wolf. However, it was he that saved Grace from the onslaught of the pack, he is her yellow-eyed wolf. They find each other in their human form and blissfully fall in love. Unfortunately, fate seems to have other plans; and the now inseparable duo find themselves fighting a dreadful opposition in order to remain together. Stiefvater writes so beautifully, it hurts. The way she manages to weave together the simplest of words into an awe-inspiring sentence or paragraph is just... painful (in a good way, of course). I was completely addicted by the end of Shiver . Also, Stiefvater writes teen dialogue better than most YA authors - it flows so naturally, and sometimes I could imagine my friends and I having the same discussion as her characters, or using the same words they used. The plot and characters were great too. The story might have dragged a little bit in the beginning, but by the middle of the book all the werewolf phenomenon and Grace and Sam's relationship had me hooked. I'm not a werewolf fan, but Stiefvater made the concept original and intriguing. The characters were well-developed and really had me caring about what happened to them. Now I just can't wait to read Linger , book two of the series. Want to read more of my reviews? Follow me here . ...more Shiver I did not. Oh, another alluring, romantic-sounding novel about the relationship of a school girl and the wolf that has always protected her. Sounds soo good to all us teen girls and older women who loved Twilight. And yet, the equation is this: Appealing storyline + a gorgeous, mysterious cover = disappointed reader. To be frank, reading Shiver was like labor outside on a hot day, with beads of sweat stinging my eyes, and a strong urge to just give up and quit. I was oh-so bored, sufferin Shiver I did not. Oh, another alluring, romantic-sounding novel about the relationship of a school girl and the wolf that has always protected her. Sounds soo good to all us teen girls and older women who loved Twilight. And yet, the equation is this: Appealing storyline + a gorgeous, mysterious cover = disappointed reader. To be frank, reading Shiver was like labor outside on a hot day, with beads of sweat stinging my eyes, and a strong urge to just give up and quit. I was oh-so bored, suffering from can't-help-but-be-spacey-itis, a condition in which you simply can't focus on a shredded storyline, thus unable to become absorbed. I mean, I laid down Shiver at least a thousand of times to watch TV. I\u2019d stare at the same page for 5 minutes, spacing out over trivial things such as what I\u2019d buy when I went out. I like to be interested in what I\u2019m reading and Maggie lacked the skill of capturing my attention. As for this author Maggie, I can say she was a stingy girl when it came to sharing details. Scenes and events were impossible to mentally act out and understand. Does she not know readers like to be absorbed in what they read? I don\u2019t want to be told how the characters felt or what they did. I want to be along for the ride. I bet she wasn't beloved in kindergarten show and tell; she was a true believer of telling, not showing what was happening. Blah. Did I mention the werewolf love interest?? I wasn\u2019t no fan of Jacob, but Sam made him look like the coolest, most interesting, masculine thing out there. Sam was no guy I'd ever want to dream about or wish upon the stars to meet in my real life. He talked like an old lady, not a hunky 17, 18, 19 year old guy I'd want to know. Heck, I once thought Grace and her mother were chitchatting about the weather when I mistakenly realized it was actually good ole' Sam, not her mother, she was talking to. *wrinkles nose* Ick. The author didn\u2019t invest much time in the dialog of any of the characters. They all lacked personality. They all talked the same. They all were all faceless. I mean, we did have the photographer best bud Olivia and the other best friend, obnoxious whatever-her-name-was, but they were so boring and difficult to picture! And, reading about them was like listening to someone drone on in on in monotone about something you don't give a flying fig about. Maggie should have sat in the mall food court for 5 minutes to get the sense of how teens act and talk among their peers. It would have added a realistic sense to Shiver. Fine. I'll quit ripping this book to pieces. I'll drudge up a good thing or two, I guess. I liked how the temperature forced the change of human to wolf. *sits for forty minutes and wracks brain for another good thing. is stumped* Whelp, that's it. *sighs at the money that could have been spent on a cute top or earrings or something* ...more When I made the decision to reread Shiver and its successor, Linger , in preparation for this trilogy's conclusion, Forever , I honestly got little butterflies in my stomach just thinking about it. I originally read Shiver back in October of '09, and it hit me like nothing had before \u2014 and nothing has matched it since. Shiver mixes some of the sweetest, most realistic and heartwarming characters with a wonderfully chilly and melancholy atmosphere and it is written with stunningly lyrical prose. If When I made the decision to reread Shiver and its successor, Linger , in preparation for this trilogy's conclusion, Forever , I honestly got little butterflies in my stomach just thinking about it. I originally read Shiver back in October of '09, and it hit me like nothing had before \u2014 and nothing has matched it since. Shiver mixes some of the sweetest, most realistic and heartwarming characters with a wonderfully chilly and melancholy atmosphere and it is written with stunningly lyrical prose. If every author wrote like Stiefvater, I dare say I'd get nothing else done save for reading. What is there to say about Grace? I feel like if I call her strong it will seem unoriginal, but that is just what she is; there is really no other way to describe Grace. She holds it together even when Sam is emotionally in shambles. Even when hope seems as far away as ten light-years, she keeps her wits about her. I can't help but love Grace any more than Sam can. And there really is no other male character quite like Sam Roth; he is one of a kind. No other boy would turn away out of respect when a girl is scantily clad; no other boy would unabashedly sing to the mother of said girl; no other boy would treat a girl with as much respect as Sam shows for Grace. As I said, Sam is one of a kind. And he's definitely my kind of guy, if you know what I mean. (Oh! how I wish there were boys/men/male specimens like him in real life! But if wishes were horses, then beggars would ride. *sigh*) Moving on . . . Just as with anything that is popular, not all people will enjoy Shiver . I think some people read the synopsis and expect a werewolf blockbuster \u2014 but that isn't what Shiver is; at its core, Shiver is a love story. The meat of the plot is simply Sam and Grace constantly fighting this physical transformation that is hell-bent on keeping them apart and stealing Sam's humanity. The only complexity in Shiver is the mystery behind what makes the humans turn into wolves - Stiefvater leaves the old-fashioned lore to the dogs and creates her own mythology \u2014 I, personally, have never read any \"werewolf\" story like Stiefvater's, and that's a large portion of why I love this series so much. Rather than you get In the old days werewolves were men that were forever ruining their clothes and having to buy new ones \u2014 and all because of that blasted full moon. Stiefvater reimagines what makes these bitten but, in truth, innocent humans change form. And, to top that off, they don't get to keep changing. Eventually, they will stay in their wolf forms for the rest of their lives, thereby unwillingly having to give up their human life, loves, and wishes \u2014 forever. By writing it this way, Stiefvater has taken what was once a horror story and made it something beautiful and sad. And this reader can't help but love that. This review would simply be too long if I added all of my favorite quotes (although you can read them all below), but if I had to choose just one it would be this: FAVORITE QUOTE: \"I fell for her in summer, my lovely summer girl From summer she is made, my lovely summer girl I'd love to spend a winter with my lovely summer girl But I'm never warm enough for my lovely summer girl It's summer when she smiles, I'm laughing like a child It's the summer of our lives; we'll contain it for a while She holds the heat, the breeze of summer in the circle of her hand I'd be happy with this summer if it's all we ever had. Between reading this and watching Becoming Jane the other night, my tear ducts are like dried sponges. And since I'll be reading Linger and Forever next, I felt that I should prepare myself; I had this sent to my house yesterday: Never let it be said that I was unprepared in life. I hear people say things about their favorites like, I've read this so many times I know all of the lines by heart. But I don't ever want it to be that way for me and this book; it is such a special read that I never want to read it and feel as if I've gotten all I can out of it. I want to start Shiver each time with the sense that it is both new and old to me, but always a favorite. ___________________________________________ My reviews of other titles in this series: Linger ...more **1.5 stars** I'm just going to come right out and say it: This book is emo bullshit. I listened to 8 hours of this story on audiobook before DNFing this at 75%. That is 8 hours of my life that I will never get back. I know I'm in the minority here. I'm accepting it. However, I just can't see why people are so enamored with this book. I'll get all of my frustration out now by explaining a few of my main issues with this book. **Some minor spoilers ahead** 1) The whole \"I shift when it's cold\" premi **1.5 stars** I'm just going to come right out and say it: This book is emo bullshit. I listened to 8 hours of this story on audiobook before DNFing this at 75%. That is 8 hours of my life that I will never get back. I know I'm in the minority here. I'm accepting it. However, I just can't see why people are so enamored with this book. I'll get all of my frustration out now by explaining a few of my main issues with this book. **Some minor spoilers ahead** 1) The whole \"I shift when it's cold\" premise. Okay, so let me get this straight: Sam automatically changes into wolf form when it gets to be \"cold\" outside (how cold I guess depends on the year- it seems to vary). He can avoid shifting by layering T-shirts and wearing warmer clothes or staying inside where it is warm ( This is fact ). It is also true that Sam doesn't seem to want to shift, he would prefer to stay as a human. Okay, I don't mean to be captain obvious here but why has no one suggested that SAM MOVE WHERE IT IS ALWAYS WARM???? For GOD's sake! Move to freaking Miami! Move near the equator!? Don't freaking live in Minnesota!?! Pick one of the coldest freaking states why don't you?! Maybe this was brought up after I stopped listening, but from the start of this book I wanted to smack all of the werewolves for not realizing this very, very simple solution. 2) The insta-love. For Christ's sake, come on. I can't handle this anymore. I seriously want to cry. It was redonkulously stupid. It was all, \"I've watched you from afar and now that we've met in person I just magically loooooove you.\" 3) The emo-ness. Sam was so \"in touch with his feelings\" that as he being attacked or running from danger he repeatedly thinks up awesome phrases to use in his melancholy poetry or decides that it is the perfect time to plan out some lyrics to his next romantic song . He is a drippy, sappy mushball of a man-boy, and it was distracting to hear that in the face of trouble he would be more likely to recite a passage from his favorite poetry book than use his brain. 4) The sexual tension. I am so sick of YA books where the girl is practically humping the guy and the guy holds back so they can \"do it right\". It is utter crap. There is a way to do YA where there is no sex on page and even no sex at all and make it feel electric. Here, it vaguely read as \"sexuality is bad\" to me. 5) It was boring. This book was so dull. I forced myself to listen to hours of nothing really happening. It lacked that addictive quality that I need to listen to an audiobook. 6) The narration. Now, I want to talk about this a little. The narrator for Grace's voice was pretty spot on. She sounded age appropriate and I think she did a good job with all of the dialogue. The Sam voice on the other hand... The actor is not a kid and he didn't sound like one. It sounded like a 40 year old, which is disturbing in a YA book. It creeped me out, more than a little bit. It pains me to give this book 1.5 stars because I love this author in her The Raven Boys series. They were some of my FAVORITE books of last year. That is partly why this book being a failure is such a crushing blow. The actual language of this book wasn't terrible and I know the author can write her ass off, but this book just failed on a lot of fronts for me. Find this review and other like it at My Fiction Nook ...more Picked up a copy of Shiver last night, sat down to read it, and did not get up until 2am, when I finished it. I went in expecting an eerie, bittersweet love story and that's exactly what I got. Shiver is told from alternating viewpoints, and you will easily fall in love with the characters of Grace and Sam. The writing is lyrical, the descriptions are breathtaking, and you can acutely feel the longing between the two teens, and their desperate struggle to keep Sam from changing. The ending was p Picked up a copy of Shiver last night, sat down to read it, and did not get up until 2am, when I finished it. I went in expecting an eerie, bittersweet love story and that's exactly what I got. Shiver is told from alternating viewpoints, and you will easily fall in love with the characters of Grace and Sam. The writing is lyrical, the descriptions are breathtaking, and you can acutely feel the longing between the two teens, and their desperate struggle to keep Sam from changing. The ending was pitch perfect, and left me with a deep feeling of satisfaction. Amazing book. Amazing author. Will definately be putting Shiver on my \"favorite books of all time\" shelf. ...more \u201cWhat do you eat?\" \"Baby bunnies.\" She narrowed her eyes, so I grinned and said, \"Adult bunnies, too. I'm an equal-opportunity bunny-eater.\u201d I tried... I really had high hopes for Shiver. This is the story of Grace and Sam,and how Sam tries to stay human for their love. It was cute but there was nothing interesting about the topic. The book was kind of boring. I turned every page with hope of action but, nope... I liked the characters. Grace was tolarable and Sam was cute. I adored the way Sam lov \u201cWhat do you eat?\" \"Baby bunnies.\" She narrowed her eyes, so I grinned and said, \"Adult bunnies, too. I'm an equal-opportunity bunny-eater.\u201d I tried... I really had high hopes for Shiver. This is the story of Grace and Sam,and how Sam tries to stay human for their love. It was cute but there was nothing interesting about the topic. The book was kind of boring. I turned every page with hope of action but, nope... I liked the characters. Grace was tolarable and Sam was cute. I adored the way Sam loved Grace. But the book was unnecessarily long even for his cuteness. Well, I also liked the writing style. The book was beautifully written, felt like poetry sometimes. I still had higher expectations. If I'd read this book when I was 12 or so I'd probably love it more. I don't know if I'll read the second book at all. Still I loved the writing and I think the author is really talented. Basically the topic and werewolf stuff was just wasn't for me. ...more At times, I find myself at war over whether or not I should give this one a try. I mean, it's MAGGIE STIEFVATER. But thanks to many, many trusted reviews that I've read, I'm more inclined to believe this is one of those overly-hyped books that'll only leave room for disappointment and I'm certainly not willing to dive into that right now. Maybe next year, when the holidays come around and I've got all the free time in the world to waste away... But now that I think about it, I really shouldn't bot At times, I find myself at war over whether or not I should give this one a try. I mean, it's MAGGIE STIEFVATER. But thanks to many, many trusted reviews that I've read, I'm more inclined to believe this is one of those overly-hyped books that'll only leave room for disappointment and I'm certainly not willing to dive into that right now. Maybe next year, when the holidays come around and I've got all the free time in the world to waste away... But now that I think about it, I really shouldn't bother then either. You see, there's this one review I came across which completely shunned the book and it's creeptastic romance, and provided a most interesting quote to go along with it too. Brace yourselves... \"For a moment, I felt an irrational stab of guilt that my feelings for Sam were replacing those that I had for my wolf - until I remembered that he was my wolf.\" Sweet baby jesus, she was head over heels in love with a goddamned wolf! AND SHE WANTED TO BECOME ONE TOO JUST SO SHE COULD LIVE WITH HIM HAPPILY EVER AFTER. I'm sorry, but that's my cue to walk away. -Saania out- ...more Forget everything you thought you knew about werewolves. Forget the full moon and silver bullets. Maggie Stiefvater's werewolves are different from any you've seen before. After being bitten, a werewolf changes erratically for a while, then settles into a seasonal cycle. Cold weather brings on a change to wolf form; warm weather returns the werewolf to human form. However, this cycle doesn't last forever. As the years pass, it takes more and more heat to trigger the change back to human, until on Forget everything you thought you knew about werewolves. Forget the full moon and silver bullets. Maggie Stiefvater's werewolves are different from any you've seen before. After being bitten, a werewolf changes erratically for a while, then settles into a seasonal cycle. Cold weather brings on a change to wolf form; warm weather returns the werewolf to human form. However, this cycle doesn't last forever. As the years pass, it takes more and more heat to trigger the change back to human, until one year the werewolf remains a wolf forever. Our heroine, Grace, was attacked by wolves as a child. Just before she was about to become lunch, one of the wolves intervened and saved her. Ever since, Grace has watched for \"her\" wolf in the woods each winter. And every summer, a golden-eyed boy named Sam watches Grace from afar, too shy to approach her. Then, when one of Grace's high school classmates is killed in another wolf attack, several of the local men take it upon themselves to rid the town of the beasts. This time it's Grace who helps Sam. Finally, the two have the chance to get to know one another. Their budding relationship is marred by one tragic truth: This is almost certainly Sam's last year as a human. Like Deirdre, the heroine of Lament , Grace is more \"real\" and well-rounded than many of the girls who populate YA paranormal romance. She's neither too perfect nor too wild, and she doesn't become subservient once her love interest appears on the scene. She's just an ordinary girl, compassionate and resourceful and caught in an unimaginable situation. The relationship between Grace and Sam is also refreshingly \"real.\" They don't just fall in love because of the weird metaphysics that surround them. They bond over music and poetry and cooking and B-grade horror movies. The reader is left with the impression that, if only the looming metaphysical tragedy could be averted, they'd have a happy future together. Which, of course, makes the inexorable approach of winter incredibly poignant. I couldn't put Shiver down, wondering how Grace and Sam's story would end, and Stiefvater kept me hanging till the very last page. Shiver is written in vivid prose that engages all of the senses. Maggie Stiefvater does a great job of evoking the sight of a single spot of red against a sea of white, the sound of canine nails scratching at the deck outside Grace's house, and the smell of paper and ink in a bookstore on a warm summer day, making Shiver a fully immersive experience. I nearly forgot it was July here as I read; I could hear the winter winds howling. ...more \u201cThe world needs more love at first sight.\u201d When I first read this (years and years ago) I totally fell in love with Maggie Stiefvater. I don't know what did it for me, but this just made me feel good. It's a perfect snuggle-up-on-a-rainy-autumn-day book. The plot wasn't overly exciting, but I think it was the writing and the characters that I enjoyed (especially Isabel). This series is so completely different from The Raven Boys . You can clearly see how much experience and skill Maggie gained thr \u201cThe world needs more love at first sight.\u201d When I first read this (years and years ago) I totally fell in love with Maggie Stiefvater. I don't know what did it for me, but this just made me feel good. It's a perfect snuggle-up-on-a-rainy-autumn-day book. The plot wasn't overly exciting, but I think it was the writing and the characters that I enjoyed (especially Isabel). This series is so completely different from The Raven Boys . You can clearly see how much experience and skill Maggie gained through the years of writing, but nevertheless, Shiver definitely has her Siefvater magic. Find more of my books on Instagram ...more Oh, my. What a book. I am going to flub writing this review very badly, I think. I just plain loved this book. This book is so gorgeous in the writing, and like poetry, but more readable than poetry, because it's prose. Do you like reading about soulmates? Then you will like this book. Sam and Grace are soulmates. It doesn't matter that Sam is a werewolf, and that Grace is a human girl. They connected years ago, and that connection bloomed over time. You see the pure, powerful love between them, Oh, my. What a book. I am going to flub writing this review very badly, I think. I just plain loved this book. This book is so gorgeous in the writing, and like poetry, but more readable than poetry, because it's prose. Do you like reading about soulmates? Then you will like this book. Sam and Grace are soulmates. It doesn't matter that Sam is a werewolf, and that Grace is a human girl. They connected years ago, and that connection bloomed over time. You see the pure, powerful love between them, and it is the cornerstone of this book. Their interactions have a fiery intensity, a soul-deep truth (I sound so stupid, but that's the best way I can express this). Do you like poetic, loveable, fantastic, yet tortured heroes? You will probably go gaga over Sam. I did. Oh, Sam. You are so wonderful. You could give lessons about how to love a woman. Are you a werewolf fiction fan? Have you read this book? If the answer is no, you need to rectify that. I am not one for bandwagons. I read the books that draw my interest. And this one did, before it was even released, and I heard about it. I was not disappointed. I was waiting for a really good werewolf young adult book, and this is it. The aspects of werewolves that draw me and fascinate me are depicted here. The concept of pack is such an integral part of this book. Sam hated being a werewolf, but he loved his pack. He loved the bond and the security of it. Poor Grace had indifferent parents who barely even spent time with her. She had Sam living in her room for many days, and they didn't even know it. That's neglect. I don't care how well fed, sheltered, and clothed a child is. If that child isn't loved or nurtured by her family, that's neglect to me. So, having Sam and that bond with him felt so right. To Grace, he was her home and her family. Her pack. I loved the descriptions of the instincts of the wolf, the smell, the primal nature. It was so well done. I loved the wolf that Sam was. I loved the young man that Sam was. I am a cold-natured person. I love being cold. Winter is my favorite season. It was very interesting how cold was the enemy to Grace and Sam. I dreaded the drop in temperature in a way I never have. In real life, I rejoice when the seasons turn to late fall, and eventually into deep winter. My favorite times of the year. Ask my family, and they will tell you I am a polar bear. I sleep with my window open when it's thirty-something degrees outside. But, reading this book, I wished it was the middle of the hot, unforgiving summer. Because cold was the adversary for Grace and Sam's love. Ms. Stiefvater depicted this beautifully. If you're looking for major external conflict and a big smackdown between good and evil, you won't find it here. This book is focused on the love relationship between Sam and Grace. It's focused on the character development of these two, and the people in their lives. This is a love story. Not just a boy meets girl. But, it's a love letter for werewolf fans. Highly, highly recommended for people who love werewolf fiction, and people enjoy lyrical, gorgeous prose, and stories that go deep into the heart of the reader and leave a sad kind of joy behind. Bravo. ...more Shiver is AMAZING!!! I brought this book at least 4 months or more ago and it just sat on my book shelve...Until i picked it up 2 days ago and then i couldn't put it down!! This has to be the best Y/A book i have read in ages,from the first page i was sucked into their wonderful story. Grace and Sam are AWESOME!! Their story told by both of them was perfect,i am so in love with Sam he was so Sweet,Caring and Sexy but i felt like he was real and i was right there with in the story... Grace is well G Shiver is AMAZING!!! I brought this book at least 4 months or more ago and it just sat on my book shelve...Until i picked it up 2 days ago and then i couldn't put it down!! This has to be the best Y/A book i have read in ages,from the first page i was sucked into their wonderful story. Grace and Sam are AWESOME!! Their story told by both of them was perfect,i am so in love with Sam he was so Sweet,Caring and Sexy but i felt like he was real and i was right there with in the story... Grace is well Grace is the Best!! If i could give it more then 5 Start i so would!!! Ladies when you read this you will need some tissues!!! I can't stop thinking about this book,it was FANTASTIC!!! If you haven't read this book, You need to READ it!! Has to be my new Fave Book!! I can not wait to read Linger it is going to so good!!! ...more *To everyone who finds this novel lovely: your opinion is respected here as long as you are respectful. That should go without saying.* Once upon a time, in a golden wood disguised as a beige and brown apartment complex in the snowy fortress of Rochester, New York, a girl on the brink of her 21st year by the code name Ghirardelli decided that diving into the mind of another author was a good idea. A very good idea. A hopefully life-changing dream that would propel her to drive her own mind\u2019s work *To everyone who finds this novel lovely: your opinion is respected here as long as you are respectful. That should go without saying.* Once upon a time, in a golden wood disguised as a beige and brown apartment complex in the snowy fortress of Rochester, New York, a girl on the brink of her 21st year by the code name Ghirardelli decided that diving into the mind of another author was a good idea. A very good idea. A hopefully life-changing dream that would propel her to drive her own mind\u2019s work. But then she read Shiver . In short, her experience happened in three stages: Denial, Questioning, then Acceptance Murderous Rampage, depicted below. \u201cThis will get better. Most certainly, I mean, those trailers were adorable!\u201d \u201cWhy is this happening? LEAKING WOMB?\u201d \u201cWHAT?! Are you kidding me? HOW?!\u201d Maggie Stiefvater\u2019s Shiver did not completely destroy Ghirardelli\u2019s sanity of course, for such thrillers like Hush, Hush and Halo had already filled that void. Where Fitzpatrick and Adornetto stumbled and fell into their own gook-like feces upon broadening their mind\u2019s eye, Stiefvater was able to create a significant atmosphere on occasion, but these times were seldom. Shiver tells the tale of a female organism, Grace, falling for a canis lupus , or gray wolf, named Sam. This yellow-eyed wolfy-poo was hers and her alone. It saved her after all, from its own pack that decided that eating a human would be as enjoyable as hunting for livestock. It was a new challenge, but never explained as necessary or for the chortles. However, my dear readers, as enticing as this mythological tale sounds, soon as Ghirardelli turned to the first page, all of Hades\u2019 Underworld came with such nonsense, bovine feces would surely be flung. Ghirardelli was heartbroken to have such distaste for this story and its need to expand beyond the binding of one novel. She rather enjoyed the trailers, as cute and amateurish (simply the camera work, everything else was precious) as they were, for they spoke out to her inner animator. She was nearly in tears when the story refused to be as simple and eye-catching as the trailer made it seem. She felt that Stiefvater tried far too hard to impress the world with her style. And so begins Part One of the Deconstruction of Shiver : Ghirardelli did not have much experience with purple prose. She probably wrote it when she was younger and not very experienced, as what happens with writers who aren\u2019t too keen on how to actually write. Though the violet prose of this tale is severely evident, it\u2019s strange to say that there were indeed several moments where Ghirardelli was quite fond of the writing. Of course, phrases like \u201cgolden wood\u201d and \u201cher wolf\u201d were used far too often to bear and Ghirardelli was forced to gag at the sight of them. As well as the repetition of attempted poetic feel, such gems were found through Ghirardelli\u2019s reading. This moment in time was Sam\u2019s break time between his homeschooling studies. As you can see, this is was Stiefvater thinks a boy through puberty does in his spare time. \" I surfed for photos of circus freaks and synonyms for the word intercourse and for answers to why staring at the stars in the evening tore my heart with longing. \" Yes, little Daniel, Ghirardelli had the same countenance. She, too, wondered why this boy found that sounding like a \u201cTwihard Twi-mom\u201d was good for him. This is a huge fuckin\u2019 problem thought Ghirardelli, who was desperate to keep reading in hopes of a better storyline. Both characters sound the same! They should be sounding like teenagers, but they sound like angsty old women who write crap poetry. It just makes me cringe! Part Two of the Deconstruction of Shiver : As Ghirardelli tried to dive deeper into the flat world of Mercy Falls, she found more and more troubles with the characters, particular the ones under the spotlight: Grace and Sam. Both were near identical in speech, and where Sam was against himself and almost too emotional to function, Grace fell between the lines of obsessed, ridiculous, and selfish. \u201cHer wolf\u201d is all Grace ever talks about the first third of this novel that and the fact that her darling pup had yellow eyes. Because dear readers, nothing says, \u201cRemember this!\u201d like bashing brains in with the knowledge of Sam\u2019s eye color. And Ghirardelli started to lose herself right then and there. Her eyes squinted, her head started to ache, but the words never left. Ghirardelli realized that the parental units in this novel were negligible. However, when they were around, they were portrayed as parents who didn\u2019t care. \u201cTHEY DON\u2019T CARE?!\u201d shouted Ghirardelli in hysteria. \u201cHOW. HOW DO THEY NOT CARE ABOUT A STRAIGHT A KID . THEY\u2019RE NOT ABUSIVE OR ALCOHOLIC SO WHAT GIVES?\u201d I do believe Ghirardelli settled down after that, for there were a few nice developmental scenes with our main characters, though Sam seemed to show more connections to Mrs. Grace\u2019s mother than Grace herself. It was a mystery even to her. All around, the supporting cast of this story filled with angst and wolves were eye-catching. Rachel was fun, Olivia had a good head on her shoulders, Isabel was caring and determined to help her brother, and even Mrs. Grace\u2019s mother was a lovely minor star. Of course, Ghirardelli was sad to see them around for just a short amount of the story. Part Three of the Deconstruction of Shiver : Ghirardelli desperately tried to find some word to perfect describe the plot that Shiver had, and all she could come up with was DULL . She found nothing interesting about a candy store adventure or even cuddling up for some tentacle monster movie. She wanted plot to happen, SEE it happen, more than just conversations on Jack and Shelby. On a minor note here, Ghirardelli did enjoy the twist on werewolf mythology, but as these stories go, the remainder of the myth seems to die in the twist. Ghirardelli enjoys the original stuff; she wishes that it was added back into the change of weather. But Ghirardelli was hurt further, for when the plot finally arrived, she was appalled. It reeked of Twilight structure, and only existed in the book\u2019s end. There was a moment that jerked her heart, for it centered around Isabel and her brother, but then the last moments of the book came to a close, and fury grew inside our protagonist. Her final words on the matter were: (view spoiler) [Inducing a fever with BRAIN-DESTROYING bacterial meningitis can\u2019t do shit for you, especially when you leave it untreated. It most certainly won\u2019t save the human body from a wolf form because you\u2019ll be dead before you ever get to hear the good news. Now tell me how Sam survived that? OH WAIT WE WILL NEVER KNOW. Fuck all. (hide spoiler) ] The remainder of the tale seemed to wrap up completely. As Ghirardelli\u2019s cohort, Cory, had stated on her review, Stiefvater clearly was not planning to forge a trilogy out of these bumbling characters. But she did somehow, and that makes our dear protagonist ever so forlorn, not to mention slightly out of it for having the need to finish the series and review the other two books. Ghirardelli once believed in Maggie\u2019s creative talents. It showed in her book trailers, and little miss chocolate almost bought Scorpio Races. But she is relieved that she didn\u2019t pick it up, for it may have the same effect that Shiver did. Epilogue Ghirardelli was not pleased. She fears that she may never be pleased by Stiefvater, but her bar is set, and she will see if Linger brings her what Shiver didn\u2019t. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Well, that's a dnf, which stands for \"did not finish\". I'm sorry but I just couldn't finish this no matter how hard I tried to go through with it, I just kept yawning like there was no tomorrow. This book is booooooring, nothing happens. The plot seemed unoriginal, and I'm not a huge fan of werewolves.. If it were possible to die of boredom, my funeral would have taken place days ago.. I hated the insta-love thing, I am not a fan of those either. And I'm not a fan of idle storylines.. I don't un Well, that's a dnf, which stands for \"did not finish\". I'm sorry but I just couldn't finish this no matter how hard I tried to go through with it, I just kept yawning like there was no tomorrow. This book is booooooring, nothing happens. The plot seemed unoriginal, and I'm not a huge fan of werewolves.. If it were possible to die of boredom, my funeral would have taken place days ago.. I hated the insta-love thing, I am not a fan of those either. And I'm not a fan of idle storylines.. I don't understand how this could be so bad. I wanted to to buy the boxed set and I'm glad I decided to read the first book before doing so, now I never will. I'm actually a fan of Maggie Stiefvater, I've read other books of hers and I loved them and I thought this would be just as good. And now I'm wondering how can this series be her most read works when she has much better books?? So, the story is, a girl gets bitten by a wolf but does not turn into one and instead of being terrified of them, she adores them and grows into a wolf-stalker. She's particularly fond of a wolf with yellow eyes. When she grows up, she meets said wold, and they fall in love in a matter of five minutes. Ugh, blah blah.. I would not recommend this. ...more I had a lot of trouble reading this book. The start was so slow to get through and I just didn't enjoy it. Nothing happened until the end and even then it wasn't anything exciting. I am normally compelled to finish a book, and I had to force myself to finish it - it wasn't so bad that I just couldn't continue altogether, but it was a struggle. SHIVER is one of those books I thought about for a long time after finishing it. Not only for the emotional journey, but for the writing itself, which was haunting and lovely, with occasional bursts of quirky. My favorite kind! Grace and Sam have known each other for years, but haven't exactly had a relationship, since Sam spends his winters as a wolf. When circumstances finally bring them together as two teenaged human beings, their love is simultaneously as passionately epic as you'd find in El SHIVER is one of those books I thought about for a long time after finishing it. Not only for the emotional journey, but for the writing itself, which was haunting and lovely, with occasional bursts of quirky. My favorite kind! Grace and Sam have known each other for years, but haven't exactly had a relationship, since Sam spends his winters as a wolf. When circumstances finally bring them together as two teenaged human beings, their love is simultaneously as passionately epic as you'd find in Elizabethan drama and as simple as holding hands on the beach. The love story is the main plot arc, and their efforts to remain together despite Sam's peculiar situation. But there are several external complications and a handful of well drawn secondary characters. I was particularly fond of Grace's friend Rachel and the snob-turned-ally Isabel, both of whom were very good for some of that quirk I mentioned above. One of my favorite things about SHIVER is that after reading it there are several moments that stick with me for their sheer angst, their beauty, and their subtle magic. A golden forest, a summery song, a bathtub, and an achingly lonely trip outside to feed the birds, to name a few. I could go on for days, but the important thing is that I'd put this book into anyone's hands and that it left me clutching at my heart in all the right ways. ...more \u201cYou\u2019re like a song that I heard when I was a little kid but forgot I knew until I heard it again.\u201d Shiver is a beautiful, melancholy love story, filled with lots of tension and emotion. Shiver is a beautiful, melancholy love story, filled with lots of tension and emotion. Grace and Sam\u2019s love is true and beautiful, but their life is surrounded by danger and uncertainty. The rhythm of the story, the style of the writing is fascinating. The story flows inevitably, making me desperately worried a \u201cYou\u2019re like a song that I heard when I was a little kid but forgot I knew until I heard it again.\u201d Shiver is a beautiful, melancholy love story, filled with lots of tension and emotion. Shiver is a beautiful, melancholy love story, filled with lots of tension and emotion. Grace and Sam\u2019s love is true and beautiful, but their life is surrounded by danger and uncertainty. The rhythm of the story, the style of the writing is fascinating. The story flows inevitably, making me desperately worried about Grace and Sam. I love Grace, she is a very strong character, self-confident, honest, open, mature. She saves Sam several times, her behavior and love for Sam is without pretense. Sam is a sweet boy with a tragic past and hopeless future. Sam\u2019s entity as a wolf is actually like a disease. He can\u2019t control his changes; his physical form depends on temperature: in cold weather he alters to a wolf, and stays like that till spring. He suffers in his wolf form, because he loses himself. He loses his humanity, words, and memories. As a wolf, he doesn\u2019t even remember Grace\u2019s name. He is able to recognize her only by her scent. It is so sad. This disease is incurable: every year he stays in his human form less and less, and finally will be stuck in the form a wolf forever, and the man he once was fades away. Sam knows his time is over. He lives his last days as a human. Although the remedy is very, very risky, I am relieved and happy with the ending. This story is perfect and complete like this. Shiver is a wonderful read for the young adult audience. Recommended! Originally posted on my blog on August 24, 2012. My favorite quotes. ...more I HAVE FINALLY FINISHED THIS BOOK. I must now seek to change my review. After completing Shiver , I have made the monumental decision to change my rating from three stars to four. I don't do that very often. I barely do it at all. Once I've decided something is shit, then it's shit. But for some reason, this book was the exception to the rule. Weird! Anyway. We have to start at the beginning. That's where most things start (unless you're Quentin Tarantino. Or...something. What?) First things first: I HAVE FINALLY FINISHED THIS BOOK. I must now seek to change my review. After completing Shiver , I have made the monumental decision to change my rating from three stars to four. I don't do that very often. I barely do it at all. Once I've decided something is shit, then it's shit. But for some reason, this book was the exception to the rule. Weird! Anyway. We have to start at the beginning. That's where most things start (unless you're Quentin Tarantino. Or...something. What?) First things first: the prose. So there were a few passages in which the prose just blew by effortlessly, and was so beautiful that I could hardly believe this was actually YA; Mags has this wonderful knack for immersing her reader right into her setting, particularly during the snowy scenes. I'm pretty sure I wasn't the only one who actually felt cold while I was reading this book, and could see the forest as if I were walking through it. But alas, this doesn't last. It's tragic, really. Mags has this rare way with words, yet every so often there's this huge chunk of awful flowery description or cheesy dialogue or crappy poetry that's just painful to slog through. Like, I can handle an author just missing the mark. If something's bad, it's just bad. But corniness is too much. Corniness is bad for the cholesterol. I can kinda forgive this, though, when we meet Grace. Okay, granted, this girl has some issues with falling in love with actual animals, but bestiality aside, Grace is pretty cool. She's tough, resilient, intelligent, independent. She dances in her kitchen and loves to cook and walk in the woods and she reads. It's all very Starbucks hipster, but what can I say? I eat that shit up. Give me a green tea frapp, grande, and I'll be on my way. Then we have Sam. Okay, so at first his lyrics were freaking awful, and just an annoyance, but toward the end...they weren't half bad. Really. And even if they were, it doesn't fucking matter, because he's just so utterly lovable and fresh and dark and beautiful and I just cannot with him. I cannot. You know how so many authors do that thing where they give their characters a \"tragic past\" and they try to make it sad and heart-wrenching but all it really is, is either white guy problems or so utterly ridiculous and melodramatic that it ends up being kind of funny? Well, Sam's not like that. He's actually tragic. Really, properly tragic. And it's refreshingly sad. (I'll admit that there were times when his voice kind of faded into Grace's and we ended up with Gram not Sam, but that was sporadic enough for me to wave it away.) The essence of this book is just how intensely emotional it is. It's been written with so much care and devotion, filled with so much love. That love translates to Grace and Sam's, so much so that it brought out the sappy crying mess in me. When I thought Sam and Grace had lost each other, it was like Fluke all over again. (Fuck that movie.) Now, normally I'm not a fan of books that leave me in a blubbery mess in the middle of my media class, but this was an exception. Seriously. I'm no more a fan of werewolves than I am dead rats, but this book just changed me. So, you're thinking the obvious question: why didn't you finish it the first time around? Because after the first ten or so chapters, it got so mind numbingly boring that I could feel my life fading away as I forced myself to read. I tried. Really, I did. At first, it was great. And in the end, it was great. But the middle was a Greek tragedy. It dragged and dragged and dragged and dragged and dragged and dragged until I became angry at myself for keeping on going. Eventually I gave up, and after a month away from it started to hate myself for being a quitter. It was a weird feeling; I'm okay with quitting. Quitting is fine. If you feet yourself wasting time and energy trying to do something that you're never going to succeed at, why quit? But I knew I could get through this. I knew I just needed another run at it. So I sat down and forced myself through the endless pit of nothingness that was the Rising Action section and it paid off. See? Sometimes even stuff that seems kind of shitty on the outside and for the most part can actually turn out pretty good in the end. (Minor peeve: It bothered me that no one gave a rat's ass about Jack's death. Granted, he was a bastard for most of the book, but wouldn't you be if you'd just found yourself on the wrong side of a life sentence?) I feel kinda bad for criticizing Shiver . I do. There really were some absolutely glorious things about this book. For example, a line that gave me genuine goosebumps: \"She was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen, a tiny, bloody angel in the snow, and they were going to destroy her.\" Isn't that just gorgeous? Grace and Sam's love was so palpable that by the end I yearned for them to be together. Sure, Grace sniffing Sam's armpits is kind of weird, but couples love that gross shit. Plus, the sex scene was absolutely lovely. Hurrah for some sex-positivity! In a nutshell? This book is a rare, beautiful piece of YA literature, and having just bought the sequel, Linger , I'm pretty eager to find out what the heck happens next. Maggie Stiefvater, I think I love you. (Sorry.) BONUS TIME! Take a look at this awesome stop-motion book trailer created by Maggie herself. Isn't it gorgeous? ...more", "Title": "Shiver"},
