{"Comments": "\u201cAll history is just one man trying to take something away from another man, and usually it doesn't really belong to either of them.<---F>\u201d 3 1/2 stars</---F>. Very nearly 4 but the strong start peters out a little, with the second half of the book losing momentum (I got to a point where I was reading just to finish). <+++>The Gargoyle</+++> 's prose bursts onto the pages in a blazing sea of fire . The book opens with detailed description of the accident that disfigures the unnamed narrator,<---M> with a beautiful</---M>, horrific b \u201cAll history is just one man trying to take something away from another man, and usually it doesn't really belong to either of them.\u201d 3 1/2 stars. Very nearly 4 but the strong start peters out a little, with the second half of the book losing momentum (I got to a point where I was reading just to finish). <+++>The Gargoyle</+++> 's prose bursts onto the pages in a blazing sea of fire . The book opens with detailed description of the accident that disfigures the unnamed narrator, with a beautiful, horrific break down of the accident itself, and the subsequent medical procedures he must undergo to recover. A former porn star and now beyond recognition, the narrator takes us on a journey into his own past, into his future and recovery, and into medieval Germany. For at least half of the book, I was completely hooked . Some parts of the story are slow, and yet the prose is dynamic and exciting enough to carry you through. It's extremely gritty, and the protagonist is exactly the kind I like: cynical, sarcastic, and with a somewhat nihilistic view of the world. His narrative charisma is so very compelling. While recovering in the hospital, the narrator becomes addicted to morphine and even more addicted to misery, plotting his own suicide in graphic detail. That is - until <---C>Marianne Engel</---C> appears in his room. Marianne is undoubtedly strange, and he suspects that she is either suffering from manic depression or schizophrenia. Because the things she tells him cannot possibly be true. Among her tales of love stories, she also reveals that they have a \"past\". Once upon a time in fourteenth-century Germany, they were lovers. Ludicrous as this obviously is, the protagonist is drawn into her tales, finding new reason to live from her companionship, whilst also being concerned for her mental health. Both the present day recovery and the historical elements are fascinating. The writing is lush and vivid, weaving a modern day tale of tragedy and romance with history and the suggestion of fantasy. Unfortunately, the novel begins to slow down when we leave the hospital and the later chapters lacked some of the earlier magic . Despite this, I still have to recommend it. For me, it's just a fine example of really great writing and genre crossovers being done well. It's a love story that should suit romantics and non-romantics alike - with plenty of history, gore and social commentary, there's something for almost everyone in here. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more Posted at Shelf Inflicted I\u2019m usually suspicious of over-hyped books, but a friend at the library highly recommended it. A short way into the story, the narrator\u2019s mom dies, his grandmother dies, he gets severely burned in a car accident, and his aunt and uncle die. I felt beat over the head with all the suffering and seriously thought about giving up reading by page 50. Then Marianne Engel, a woman with a history of mental illness, shows up in the nameless narrator\u2019s hospital room telling a stor Posted at Shelf Inflicted I\u2019m usually suspicious of over-hyped books, but a friend at the library highly recommended it. A short way into the story, the narrator\u2019s mom dies, his grandmother dies, he gets severely burned in a car accident, and his aunt and uncle die. I felt beat over the head with all the suffering and seriously thought about giving up reading by page 50. Then Marianne Engel, a woman with a history of mental illness, shows up in the nameless narrator\u2019s hospital room telling a story about her previous life in medieval Germany. That was the hook that drew me in. The story jumps back and forth between stories about Marianne\u2019s life as a nun and scribe, the narrator\u2019s past as a mercenary soldier, and the tragic lives and loves of other people from different places that Marianne has known. The contemporary part of the story deals with Marianne's passion for creating gargoyles, the narrator\u2019s treatment and recovery from his burns, his drug addiction, former career in pornography, his growing friendship with his psychiatrist and physical therapist, and his love for Marianne. The thing that bothers me most is the narrator\u2019s seemingly hasty transition from a drug-addicted, sex-addicted, selfish, friendless porn star to a man who finally develops a soul after he becomes smitten with a mentally ill woman who tells him stories. This flaw was relatively easy to overlook, as I too, was swept away by Marianne\u2019s stories - the religious imagery, literary references and beautiful, tragic tales of love that felt so very real. Highly original, magical, heart wrenching, and a real treat! ...more I began to get an idea why the publisher paid $1.5 million for this novel (the highest ever paid in Canada) after the first few pages. <---A>Andrew Davidson</---A> is able to tease stories out paper with his pen like his character, Marianne, is able to tease gargoyles out of stone with a chisel. Through the mouth of Marianne and with images straight out of Dante's Inferno , he tells 700 years of stories of Marianne's reincarnations which have included whispering nuns, fiery arrows, callous mercenaries, deadly I began to get an idea why the publisher paid $1.5 million for this novel (the highest ever paid in Canada) after the first few pages. Andrew Davidson is able to tease stories out paper with his pen like his character, Marianne, is able to tease gargoyles out of stone with a chisel. Through the mouth of Marianne and with images straight out of Dante's Inferno , he tells 700 years of stories of Marianne's reincarnations which have included whispering nuns, fiery arrows, callous mercenaries, deadly plagues, lost ships, gregarious Vikings, and being buried alive. It's with a man's cocaine-influenced fiery car accident and his subsequent treatments in a burn unit that the novel itself begins. However grotesque this situation really is, the author is able to find the perfect words that transform the story into a work of art. The car is falling into the pit of Dante's hell and the burn victim's bed is in the belly of a bleached white skeleton. So here we have a man who was orphaned at birth, who was brought up by meth addicts who eventually blew up their house, and who later became a model and then a porn star to make ends meet on the street (Of course, after sustaining 1st-4th degree burns over most of his body and having a penectomy, there's not much of that career left.) As the man is lying in his hospital bed thinking of a spectacular way to kill himself involving hanging, jumping from a building, a bullet to the head, an overdose, and a razor blade to the wrist all at once, a psych patient wanders into his hospital room. She swears she's known him for 700 years, tells him this is the 3rd time he's been burned, says she knows how he got the scar on his chest, tells him stories of dragons and monks, and leaves him a grotesque (not to be confused with a gargoyle) that she herself carved for him. Then she proceeds to tell him stories about the various lives they've met in. This is a masterpiece of a book indeed. I've not seen so much symbolism and layers of story in a modern book in a quite a while. I found myself lost within the stories within the story and gasping for air at their astonishingly horrible and beautiful endings. This is definitely a book worth careful scrutiny and more than one read. Note: While I critique both purchased and free books in the same way, I'm legally obligated to tell you I received this book free through the Amazon Vine program in return for my review. Blah blah blah. ...more I gave this almost 200 pages to win me over since it has been hyped so much and everyone seems to love it, but I had to give up on it and move on. I thought that the writing was very good, with some vivid images, especially the early one equating the narrator's burn to the pain caused by touching a hot stove--for a full minute. I also, surprisingly, enjoyed some of Marianne's tales of love. The problem was--okay, one of the problems was--that I found them to be more interesting than her own stor I gave this almost 200 pages to win me over since it has been hyped so much and everyone seems to love it, but I had to give up on it and move on. I thought that the writing was very good, with some vivid images, especially the early one equating the narrator's burn to the pain caused by touching a hot stove--for a full minute. I also, surprisingly, enjoyed some of Marianne's tales of love. The problem was--okay, one of the problems was--that I found them to be more interesting than her own story. The main issue I had was that there was no real conflict to propel the plot along and I didn't think that the characters were strong enough to carry the story themselves. Yes, there were some details that intrigued me (like the Asian woman whispering to a young Narrator about the origin of his scar, which was completely forgotten in the pages that I was able to get through), and Marianne's assertion that they were lovers did pique my interest a little bit--was she for real or just a looney tune? But the majority of the plot seemed to be about the Narrator's recovery in the burn unit, his rehabilitation and physical therapy, which, granted, was quite thoroughly researched but a little boring after a while. But there were also parts where the author slipped into long, monotonous, detailed description that could have easily been cut. A half page listing all of the foods at the Christmas feast? Seriously? My second major issue was the characters. I just felt that they were one-dimensional and uninteresting beyond the fact that one is burned and the other thinks they're lovers from 700 years ago. They reminded me of the titular gargoyle: meticulously crafted but ultimately stony and impenetrable and without much substance below the surface. I didn't think that they had any chemistry together, either. In fact, I was more charmed by the crush Gregor had on Mizumoto than I was by the primary romance. I'm sure there were a ton of literary references and layers upon layers of symbolism in here that I didn't get, which may give it depth, but if I can't muster up the energy to plod along or care about the characters enough to watch them recuperate and court each other, what good is it? Honestly, if this were to have crossed my desk, I would have passed on it. ...more The Gargoyle moves you to want to be in love and to NEVER want to be in love. Love is suffering, love is bliss. Davidson has penned a beautiful book full of love, meaning, and intelligence. It's not often that a person can learn history,religion and culture in a book about love. Oh and he threw in burn procedures, yes BURN procedures in a book about love, somehow it seems fitting. Wait, I think I forgot to mention there are language translations too. I do realize a lot of people run from anythin The Gargoyle moves you to want to be in love and to NEVER want to be in love. Love is suffering, love is bliss. Davidson has penned a beautiful book full of love, meaning, and intelligence. It's not often that a person can learn history,religion and culture in a book about love. Oh and he threw in burn procedures, yes BURN procedures in a book about love, somehow it seems fitting. Wait, I think I forgot to mention there are language translations too. I do realize a lot of people run from anything that can further their knowledge, that's what school texts are for, but his book is so enchanting that you don't even realize how much you're absorbing until you come to the end. The end,that awful place I did not want to arrive. I longed to stay forever immersed in this story. Breathtakingly original, descriptions that lead you into a journey of pain (yes my skin crawled when I read about the burns), and how beautifully he tied the stories of love together into a tight knot. I will say this book is graphic but it had to be, or it wouldn't be a powerful read that haunts you long after you're done. I stayed up for many nights as if possessed, and few books have mesmerized me like The Gargoyle.Read it, re-read it,cling to it and spread the word! ...more ** 2\"Forgive me Father for I am dumb\" STARS** Okay, I know I said I wasn't going to write a review, but God *beep* it, this book left me confused, defeated & feeling like a royal idiot. I couldn't wait for Carla to finish because she had some splanin to do. Um yeah, that conversation went something like this . . . . . Yup, neither one of us understood the ending. We went from riding the short bus, to pushing it. There are two main plot points that didn't add up & it's driving me crazy. Pl ** 2\"Forgive me Father for I am dumb\" STARS** Okay, I know I said I wasn't going to write a review, but God *beep* it, this book left me confused, defeated & feeling like a royal idiot. I couldn't wait for Carla to finish because she had some splanin to do. Um yeah, that conversation went something like this . . . . . Yup, neither one of us understood the ending. We went from riding the short bus, to pushing it. There are two main plot points that didn't add up & it's driving me crazy. Please do not peek inside if you plan to read the book . (view spoiler) [ 1) Can someone please explain the purpose of the gargoyles statues? Per the three kings, the penance for her sins was the following: \"You shall be returned to the world, and your chest shall be filled anew with thousands of hearts. You must give each away, until all are gone but one .\" . . . Cool, I understand the rules but that's not what happened. A) Marianne sold the Gargoyles, she did not give them away. B) When she went for a \"swim\" there were numerous unclaimed gargoyles/grotesques. 2) Did he believe Marianne Engel was his long lost love or that she was schizophrenic? He who shall apparently remain nameless thought the following; (@97%) \" It never takes me long to start lying again, trying to convince myself that Marianne Engel's imaginary past was legitimate simply because she believed it so deeply. Everyone's past, I try to rationalize , is nothing more than the collection of memories they choose to remember. But in my heart, I know this is just a defense mechanism that I manufacture simply so I can go on living with myself. \" .. .Thank the Lort, he and I are in agreement, Marianne Engel's indeed coo-coo for coocoa puffs. **DUN-DUN-DUUUUN!!! ** Not so fast, Bucko! A few pages later Mc Nameless thinks the following; (@99%) \" This will mark the third time that an arrow has entered my chest. The first time brought me to Marianne Engle. The second time separated us. The third will reunite us\" . . . Pleasssssse, someone set my dumb ass straight. I need answers. I'd like some closure . . (hide spoiler) ] Now this is the part which I try to avoid, but its rare for me to give a book two stars. I feel as though I should explain my rating. . . . I know, I know, this whine fest isn't needed. . . . but I'm adding it anyway. Please remember I'm a smart-ass & do not wish to berate the author in any way. Any and all jokes are directed towards his characters or myself.... In fact, feel free to bypass this section entirely. Okay, here goes: *It irked me that I was never told either MC name. Although I read Marianne Engel a thousand times, it turns out that wasn't her birth name. It really isn't a big deal, but why add that tidbit in the first place? If it was to prove she was crazy, I was already a believer. But what about \"He who shall remain nameless\"? <-- Hmm, was he a fallen angel? * I did not feel the love connection (at all) it felt more like a mother-son relationship, than a epic love story. Where was the intimacy? Yes, I'm aware that \"what's his face\" no longer had a penis, but I've walked into a room where a couple was simply looking at each other & it felt like I just walked in on them having sex, that's the intimacy I'm referring to. Where was the affection? She could have held his good hand. They could have kissed. There was no wanting to be near this person nor words of missing the others touch. The author had numerous opportunities to showcase their fondness for one another. Maybe they did and I just didn't feel it. * Their/ Her love spanned over 700 years. What was she doing the 600+ years they were apart? Why didn't she find him sooner? * I'm still trying to figure out how his penis was incinerated but his balls went unharmed. Did he tuck them inside his asshole? This poor character was left with no frank, just beans. I keep thinking it symbolizes something, but what ? I have no idea. *What happened to him being suicidal? He went from having this elaborate plan to it never being brought up again, in the blink of an eye. *I completely loved the beginning of the story. I know some readers found the details of his injuries to be overly graphic, but I was lapping them up likes drinks at happy hour. I couldn't put this book down. Then Marianne Engel entered the picture ... . . . I'm sure this is where I'm going to agree to disagree with others but I did not like Marianne Engel. At times I found her to be annoying, self-centered (view spoiler) [ -(ex) staying downstairs for days at a time without checking on the love of her life or her dog. Did she ask him any questions about himself? Did she ever give him an option on, well anything? Story time was always at her convenience. Hello, he should have been asking Marianne Engel to tell him more about their story. The timing of her confrontation regarding his morphine addiction sure felt like it happened when it best suited her. Why didn't she confront him immediately? (hide spoiler) ] as well as pushy. (view spoiler) [like when Marianne Engel took him to the scene of his accident without any warning. That's a traumatic experience, the person needs to be mentally prepared. .I also didn't approve of her actions at the coffee shop. She should ask him if she could call the little boy over, instead she put him .. as well as the boys mother in a awkward position. Out of the three adults , Marianne Engel was the one person who should have kept their lip zipped. Just sayin. And while we're on the subject of being talkative, I've never wanted to duct tape a heroine's face mouth more than I did, Marianne Engel. She never SHUT UP. (hide spoiler) ] * Why the four other stories? Granted they were entertaining, but IMHO they weren't needed as they took away from the past & present story line. * I found his injuries to be inconsistent. One second I'm reading about his urine bag & the next, he's seating down on a toilet to pee. Also, per the description of his groin area, there's no hole. Mr. Incognito bumped into a car & was in such excruciating pain, he needed a shot of morphine, yet at the Halloween party he was crawling all over the floor like a baby, without so much as an ouch. Also, he had one good ear, so why did a plastic surgeon offer to rebuild both? * This book was Grand Filler Station. As some of you are already aware, unnecessary information is a HUGE pet peeve of mine. There were pages (plural) of food listed. We were given word meanings that would've impressed Mr.Webster himself. I read an entire (untranslated) conversation written in Japanese. Granted the author did elaborate later on, but he could have easily stated,the two characters were having a discussion in a foreign language. *Parts of the story were so religiously detailed, I told Carla that I think the publisher made a mistake. I went from reading a fictional story to studying a theology text book. Hell, I grabbed a pen & paper and started taking notes just in case there was a pop quiz at the end of the book. Not that it was necessarily a bad thing, I just felt it took away from the main story. . . I could say more but I think I've said my peace ... and then some :-) Please don't allow my review to deter you from reading The Gargoyle . There are thousands of five star reviews. This book just didn't work for me but it may very well save your soul. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more This is a most unusual tale. It is the love story of a severely burned ex-porn star and a schizophrenic sculptor on it's surface. Which is interesting enough--both are lovably flawed fascinating characters in their on right. But soon the other stories, spanning centuries, begin. Each is a heartbreaking yet uplifting story of love. All are told in language I can only call magical--I found myself often stopping to re-read sections because I wanted to savor their beauty a bit longer. Reading this b This is a most unusual tale. It is the love story of a severely burned ex-porn star and a schizophrenic sculptor on it's surface. Which is interesting enough--both are lovably flawed fascinating characters in their on right. But soon the other stories, spanning centuries, begin. Each is a heartbreaking yet uplifting story of love. All are told in language I can only call magical--I found myself often stopping to re-read sections because I wanted to savor their beauty a bit longer. Reading this book felt like sorting through a wondrous box of treasure--there are well researched intellectual prizes, laugh out loud humor (advice--carefully read the menu for Christmas dinner), tear jerking moments that take the breath away, love that creates a longing in the heart, physical pain that make the body recoil at the reading..........and so much more. This is Davidson's first book, and we will be hearing much, much more about him in the coming years--he is a story teller extraordinaire. This book is quite graphic in it's detail of the care of burn victims and in it's depiction of violence, so it isn't for the faint at heart. But both are a very necessary part of the whole book--the ugliness and the horror being a corridor to the amazing beauty and peace contained within. Five stars just don't seem enough for this amazing book. I would recommend this book especially to folks who liked The Time Travelers Wife or The Little Book by Seldon Edwards, but anyone who loves a great love story and doesn't mind some grit will fall under the spell of this book. Fans of Dante's Inferno will find large sections of this book fascinating as well. ...more This Book is Beautiful Beyond Words!!! 5 \"Beautiful Grotesque\" stars!!! Our Nameless Hero Our hero is wounded and almost dead. He survives a horrible accident and struggles to survive. \u201cMy flesh began to singe as if I were a scrap of meat newly thrown onto the barbecue, and then i could hear the bubbling of my skin as the flames kissed it.\u201d \u201cMy skin will never work like that again, so aware of the other person that I'm unsure where she ends and I begin. Never again. Never again will my skin be a This Book is Beautiful Beyond Words!!! 5 \"Beautiful Grotesque\" stars!!! Our Nameless Hero Our hero is wounded and almost dead. He survives a horrible accident and struggles to survive. \u201cMy flesh began to singe as if I were a scrap of meat newly thrown onto the barbecue, and then i could hear the bubbling of my skin as the flames kissed it.\u201d \u201cMy skin will never work like that again, so aware of the other person that I'm unsure where she ends and I begin. Never again. Never again will my skin be a thing that can so perfectly communicate; in losing my skin to the fire, I also lost the opportunity to make it disappear with another person.\u201d As our hero is recovering from his horrible accident, he meets Marianne Engel. She is eccentric, and beautiful. She tells a tale of lovers past. A tale of their past and how they have lived and loved many times before. Marianne Engel Marianne has lived multiple lives and has fallen in love with her destined mate each time. Yet she remembers each life they have had together. She attempts to convince our hero that their love is timeless and that she is on a spiritual mission that must be completed. \u201cI envy all suffering, because suffering is necessary to become spiritually beautiful.\u201d This is by far one of the most beautiful love stories I have read. It is a love that transcends time. \u201cI spent my entire life waiting for you, Marianne, and I didn't even know it until you arrived. Being burned was the best thing that ever happened to me because it brought you. I wanted to die but you filled me with so much love that it overflowed and I couldn't help but love you back. It happened before I even knew it and now I can't imagine not loving you. You have said that it takes so much for me to believe anything, but I do believe. I believe in your love for me. I believe in my love for you. I believe that every remaining beat of my heart belongs to you, and I believe that when I finally leave this world, my last breath will carry your name. I believe that my final word--Marianne--will be all I need to know that my life was good and full and worthy, and I believe that our love will last forever.\u201d The story of the Gargoyle, or Grotesque, which is how Marianne refers to them as, is just puzzling. But if you suspend all doubt and just take what she says as gospel, you will find a spiritually beautiful, epic, tragic, story. This is a tear jerker, but most epic love stories are. This is one of my favorite quotes from the book, near the end: \u201cWith every fragment of rock that fall from me, I can hear the voice of Marianne Engle. I love you. Aishiteru. Ego amo te. Ti amo. Eg elska pig. Ich liebe dich. It is moving across time, coming to me in every language of the world, and it sounds like pure love.\u201d I look forward to re-reading this amazing book. It was so realistic that I started researching the book to find out if it was an autobiography, but it's not. It is just so well written, and so real, that you feel as if you reading a true story. I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for an amazing love story that spans time and involves many cultures. ...more What a book! I thought okay so an odd storyline when I heard about it. But my book group was saying it was so good that I thought I would give it a try and I'm soooo glad that I did. This book makes you glad to be a reader. For me it brought stories and that love of a really really good book to life again. I am about halfway through it and I keep making me put it down because I dread it ending. Andrew Davidson has written a gift for the reading world. His stories sweep you up and place you there What a book! I thought okay so an odd storyline when I heard about it. But my book group was saying it was so good that I thought I would give it a try and I'm soooo glad that I did. This book makes you glad to be a reader. For me it brought stories and that love of a really really good book to life again. I am about halfway through it and I keep making me put it down because I dread it ending. Andrew Davidson has written a gift for the reading world. His stories sweep you up and place you there and that's a rare treat. I remember being a young girl and feeling that sensation..discovering that magic! Share this book with the people you know. It's awesome. Thank you Mr. Davidson! ...more Hopeful, Yet Heart-Crushing \"I looked out this morning and the sun was gone Turned on some music to start my day I lost myself in a familiar song I closed my eyes and I slipped away **** I see my Marianne walkin' away ....\" Boston, \"More Than a Feeling,\" 1975 4.2 stars [revised/shortened on 6/27] by Elizabeth Lisa, My Visualization of Marianne Engel , from novel Two separate but related stories occur within this novel, with maybe 4/5 meta-meta-fables of love being told to the protagonist by his lover Mar Hopeful, Yet Heart-Crushing \"I looked out this morning and the sun was gone Turned on some music to start my day I lost myself in a familiar song I closed my eyes and I slipped away **** I see my Marianne walkin' away ....\" Boston, \"More Than a Feeling,\" 1975 4.2 stars [revised/shortened on 6/27] by Elizabeth Lisa, My Visualization of Marianne Engel , from novel Two separate but related stories occur within this novel, with maybe 4/5 meta-meta-fables of love being told to the protagonist by his lover Marianne Engel (surname, German for \"angel\"). It works. The novel begins with our unnamed narrator looking back to himself a few years before this recounting. He grew up lonely, yet very attractive to women, as a result of which he became a self-centered drug-addicted hard-porn star, all about the conquest, pulling out his package without fear of rejection or emotional attachment. A real life of drugs, sex and \"lights, camera, roll.\" Then he drives off the road into a ravine in trying to avoid hallucinatory arrows flying at him from the woods. His car catches fire and he suffers the worst-degree burns to most of his body and, most importantly, he loses the only tool of his trade . He spends his time in the burn unit thinking of either his next hit of morphine or the advantages (or not) of myriad forms of suicide. Also, a devil of a snake has inhabited his spine, hissing evil thoughts. A visitor named Marianne Engel, being treated in the hospital's psych ward, begins visiting. She says she knew him in 14th Century Germany, and spins a tale of a long-ago romance. Marianne is a sculptress of stone grotesques/gargoyles.* She makes him want to live. At her insistence, he moves in with her upon leaving the hospital. Over time, she discloses their story interspersed with 3 or 4 more tales of romance, spanning centuries and continents, that give hope to our narrator as he falls desperately in love with her. She reveals that she was a nun in 14th Century Germany when she met him. [any more of their past would be a spoiler]. When she nearly died in Germany she was given another chance at life and passage into heaven if she gave away her chest full of hearts, which she does through sculpting gargoyles. She is nearly finished with her endeavor. The Gargoyle is a clever cosmic romance that heavily relies on Dante's Inferno as it explores and interprets the essence of faith in, and the ultimate sacrifice for, love. \"...for all those who enter here, there is no need to abandon hope. Lessons are learned, love is found, spirits are restored, and faith is revealed...\" Janet Maslin, NYTimes 2010 review. Botticelli, \"Inferno, Canto XVIII\" Maybe the best description of this novel: heart-crushing, yet hopeful . *A gargoyle is a grotesque with a spout for emitting water from a roof or away from the side of a building. ...more Invokes such vivid imagery that it's almost painful to read. An excruciating fairy tale exploring the gossamer of tears and bliss, of fears and hopes. The lore and the subconcious are entangled to create a memorable exploration of a soul's journey through eternity. Q: The only way I was able to survive that shitty world was to imagine better ones, so I read everything I could get my hands on. (c) Q: When the mother became savage-eyed and withdrawn, the young girl would come to cry fearfully in my ti Invokes such vivid imagery that it's almost painful to read. An excruciating fairy tale exploring the gossamer of tears and bliss, of fears and hopes. The lore and the subconcious are entangled to create a memorable exploration of a soul's journey through eternity. Q: The only way I was able to survive that shitty world was to imagine better ones, so I read everything I could get my hands on. (c) Q: When the mother became savage-eyed and withdrawn, the young girl would come to cry fearfully in my tiny room, anticipating an impending sale. Last I heard, her mother had cleaned up, lost addiction, and found God. Last I heard, the girl (now adult) was a pregnant heroin addict. (c) Q: My \u201cmiraculous survival\u201d will not change my opinion that Heaven is an idea constructed by man to help him cope with the fact that life on earth is both brutally short and, paradoxically, far too long. (c) Q: I can state this with authority: nothing compares with deciding to die. I had an excellent plan and it made me smile. It made me drift more lightly on my air flotation bed. (c) Q: In those days, you must understand, children were basically thought to be inadequate adults. A child\u2019s nature was not something that could be developed, because character was set at birth; childhood was a period of revelation, not development, so when my language abilities appeared they were thought to have always existed, placed there by God, waiting to be made known. (c) Q: I tried to imagine being so thoroughly devoted that I would die for someone else; I, who found it difficult enough to imagine living for myself. (c) Q: It\u2019s a strange but consistent trait of people who consider themselves unattractive. They look embarrassed if you suggest that they might be interested in someone; because they feel unworthy of receiving attention, they also deny that they would dare to give it. (c) Q: If anything, I am an equal opportunity misanthropist. (c) Q: No wonder Marianne Engel lived next to a graveyard: who but the dead could put up with her? (c) Q: \u201cDo you know what the best part of that swim was?\u201d \u201cNo.\u201d \u201cKnowing that you were on the shore waiting for me.\u201d (c) Q: Belief in a better future is an amazing gift. (c) ...more To describe 2016 as a disaster would be an understatement. Sadly, my reading year wasn't too different. While I have read a couple of exceptionally good books, the rest of the year has been a bit of a dud. I picked this book up with an apathetic shrug of the shoulders. Hardly any of my friends had read it and I just thought it would be too weird for me. Luckily for me, the year still had room for pleasant surprises. The nameless protagonist is, in his own words, \"a coke-addled pornographer\". Natu To describe 2016 as a disaster would be an understatement. Sadly, my reading year wasn't too different. While I have read a couple of exceptionally good books, the rest of the year has been a bit of a dud. I picked this book up with an apathetic shrug of the shoulders. Hardly any of my friends had read it and I just thought it would be too weird for me. Luckily for me, the year still had room for pleasant surprises. The nameless protagonist is, in his own words, \"a \u200bcoke-addled pornographer\". Naturally, he's attractive, but this doesn't last much longer than a few pages into the book. After an evening of snorting coke, he manages to crash his car and nearly burn himself to death in the process. During his recovery in the hospital, he meets a patient by the name of Marianne Engel. She swiftly starts to tell him the story of her past life in a medieval monastery. In between reality and this, she tells stories about people she's known in her time and their reckless acts of love. From 9th century Iceland to feudal Japan, this book has it all. This is quite the unique novel. While it isn't action-heavy, it's gripping. The plot is infinitely rich and the prose, while horrifying and gory at times, resembles art. This book focuses heavily of redemption and love in the most poetic of ways. It's evident that Davidson did plenty of research and I'm curious to see what he'll write in the future. I can tell that this will be on my mind for some time. ...more Everyone told me I'd love this book, then they all told me I SHOULD love this book. I read all the blurbs about how wonderful, astounding, amazing, unbelievable it was. You know, I actually wanted to like it. I was looking for a good book. I was hoping for an absorbing story that would draw me in, where I could sink into the story. Alas, this wasn't it. I forged my way through a good part of the book, after all sometimes books start slowly and then \"take off\". This one didn't. I finally skimmed m Everyone told me I'd love this book, then they all told me I SHOULD love this book. I read all the blurbs about how wonderful, astounding, amazing, unbelievable it was. You know, I actually wanted to like it. I was looking for a good book. I was hoping for an absorbing story that would draw me in, where I could sink into the story. Alas, this wasn't it. I forged my way through a good part of the book, after all sometimes books start slowly and then \"take off\". This one didn't. I finally skimmed my way to the end and finished, sadder but wiser. I just didn't care for it, in other words, I didn't think it was astounding, amazing, absorbing, incredible...or even very good. To each their own, if you liked it (and I see many do/did) I'm happy for you, but it's not for me. In my opinion it's several hours of my life I'll never get back. Can't really endorse this one, but it is I'm sure a matter of taste. This one didn't pull me in or appeal to me as it does some of you. Sorry. ...more Opening Line: \"Accidents ambush the unsuspecting, often violently, just like love.\" I really liked this book and found myself absorbed in the world that Andrew Davidson has created. THE GARGOYLE is a multilayered tragedy within a love story and it will affect you on many different levels; horrific, sad and gruesome it is also complex, funny, thought provoking and redeeming. Unfortunately any summery you read won't really do it justice. THE GARGOYLE has been written in a first person narrative and Opening Line: \"Accidents ambush the unsuspecting, often violently, just like love.\" I really liked this book and found myself absorbed in the world that Andrew Davidson has created. THE GARGOYLE is a multilayered tragedy within a love story and it will affect you on many different levels; horrific, sad and gruesome it is also complex, funny, thought provoking and redeeming. Unfortunately any summery you read won't really do it justice. THE GARGOYLE has been written in a first person narrative and although we never learn the narrator's name he is self-consciously and sometimes humorously aware that he's writing a book. We begin with our good looking and self absorbed narrator (N) driving his car while high on cocaine and with a bottle of bourbon between his legs. He subsequently starts hallucinating and to avoid the burning arrows flying at his car drives off the road. N's car flips several times and catches fire, burning him alive. The next half of the book takes place within the burn ward as N begins his long road to recovery. The car accident and most of the burn ward scenes are detailed, horrific and at times hard to read but they're also so well written that you'll be able to smell the hospital and really feel N's pain and suffering. N has been burned so severely that he no longer resembles anything close to the gorgeous porn star that he once was and as he begins his therapy it's only in the detailed planning of his suicide that he's able to get through the day. The shots of morphine that silence the snake living in his spine help too but you'll have to read the book to understand that. One day a strange and wild woman known as Marianne Engel escapes from the psyche ward and sneaks into the burn unit. She proceeds to tell N that she has known him for 700 years, that he has been burned before and that they were once lovers in medieval Germany where she was a nun and he was a wounded solider. It doesn't matter if he can't remember; she tells him, she will prove it to him. And so begins Marianne's tales of their past lives. The book then begins to jump between time periods as Marianne Engel tells her life story which is set in the middle ages along with several other short stories about different tragic lovers. The flashbacks became my favourite parts of the book taking us to Germany, Japan, Italy and the Vikings of Iceland. The characters from these times are exquisitely interesting and the details of the era, amazing. The research Mr Davidson has put into this book is simply mind boggling. N doesn't believe Maryanne, concluding that she is schizophrenic, nonetheless he comes to rely on her and in their own way the two begin a relationship. Throughout Maryanne's storytelling and hospital visits she continues her lifetimes work, that of carving stone Gargoyles. We are also introduced to several characters both within and outside the hospital all slowly becoming N's friends as he changes and becomes a man of worth. The only part of the book that `lost me' a bit would be the several chapters during N's morphine withdrawal whereupon he enters the gates of hell and confronts all the characters from Marianne's stories and quotes Dante's inferno. This was bizarre and went on for too long but did tie up all the characters from Marianne's gripping stories. For me the ending was thought provoking and perfect. Cheers! \"Only after I was born into physical repulsiveness did I come to glimpse the possibilities of the heart\" ...more \"Accidents ambush the unsuspecting, often violently, just like love.\" The \"Gargoyle\" is about an unnamed man whose life isn't the best. He was mistreated and abused as a child, he's addicted to drugs and he ended up being a porn star which he's very good at it but doesn't complete him. One day he's in a terrible accident and ends up in the burn ward with third degree burns all over his body. He's completely unrecognisable. In the hospital he didn't get many visitors and while being on his own \"Accidents ambush the unsuspecting, often violently, just like love.\" The \"Gargoyle\" is about an unnamed man whose life isn't the best. He was mistreated and abused as a child, he's addicted to drugs and he ended up being a porn star which he's very good at it but doesn't complete him. One day he's in a terrible accident and ends up in the burn ward with third degree burns all over his body. He's completely unrecognisable. In the hospital he didn't get many visitors and while being on his own he started to realise how bad he's life was before. Because of that he becomes extremely depressed and starts having suicidal thoughts. That's until one day a woman from the psychiatric ward, starts to visit him. Marianne Engel is a mysterious tattoed woman. She claims that she knows him over a 700 years and that they were lovers . It doesn't matter that he can't remember any of it cause Marianne proceeds and tells him the story of their past lifes. This book is NOT for the faint of heart. The narrator was heart-breaking beautiful! In the first chapter, reading the way he described the feeling of being burned was unbelievable!! I don't want to say anything more because I don't want to spoil anything. I highly, HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone. Anyone who loves to read I'm sure will love this book. ~~ Now let me go cry in my corner cause I'm still not over this book. ~~ \"You are mine, I am yours; you may be sure of this. You've been locked inside my heart, the key has been thrown away; within it, you must always stay.\" ...more I am on a book roll this week! No I do not mean that I am the filling in some sort of papery sandwich (although for the really enthusiastic book lover this may have some kind of kinky appeal, paper cuts not withstanding), I mean I have been selecting books from my shelf which I have been thrilled to read, engrossed and spell bound by and this does not always happen. I am constantly on the search for reading matter... in Liverpool I am probably the book equivalent of an overly tall Jawa (know you I am on a book roll this week! No I do not mean that I am the filling in some sort of papery sandwich (although for the really enthusiastic book lover this may have some kind of kinky appeal, paper cuts not withstanding), I mean I have been selecting books from my shelf which I have been thrilled to read, engrossed and spell bound by and this does not always happen. I am constantly on the search for reading matter... in Liverpool I am probably the book equivalent of an overly tall Jawa (know your Star Wars people!) A forager always on the look out for reading material no matter how obscure the location and once a book has been tracked down it gets squirrelled away in my robes and whisked back to my space ship... er I mean flat. This weekend I've added Dante's Inferno (the illustrated version with the SE7EN-esque pictures by Gustave Dore), The Hare with Amber Eyes by Edward de Waal, Running Dogs by Don DeLillo, The Gun Slinger by Stephen King and Wolf Hall by Hilary Mantle to my collection. Will I read them all? Yes. Will I love them all? No, probably not. This brings me on, after a lot of digressing, to tell you how much I loved (loved LoVeD LOVED LoveD) The Gargoyle. Man, this is a good book. I've had it on my shelf for a while and picked it up once before when I read three pages and thought \"nah\", replaced it on the shelf and shuffled off with a different tome in my grubby paw. Why did I do that?!?! The Gargoyle centres around a man, who before his physical disfigurement was (for reasons which are spoilers and therefore will not be revealed here), emotionally and morally disfigured. However, being BBQ'd upside down in your own car after suffering cocaine induced hallucinations and as a result swerving off a cliff side road, covering yourself in a bourbon flambe and then getting set alight is a fairly life changing catalyst which would force well, anyone, to change their perceptions of themselves and the world around them... presuming they survive anyway. Following his accident the protagonist meets the enigmatic, beautiful, mad-as-a-box-of-frogs Marianne Engel who comes to his bedside with a secret. This is not their first life together and she has come to find him. They will spend together while she releases her 27 hearts... the final heart is just for him. As this hypnotic story unfolds you are drawn into the history of a love story which transcends historical periods and eventually one story spills over into five others with plot lines writhing together like the snakes of Medusa (Davidson got compared to David Mitchell for this and I am not sure how happy he should be with that comparison) each one more poetic than the last and all illustrating the point that great love is not restricted by the barriers of the corporeal world. Now before you all start sticking your fingers in your mouths and making \"bleurgh\" noises, you should know by now that I'm not a great fan of the slushy stuff and normally like my love affairs scandalous and hard-bitten. But this book is the exception to that rule and I'll stand by it. Brilliantly written, engaging, unusual and an unconventional introduction to Dante Alighieri! ...more Serendipity. I like that word. It means: luck that takes the form of finding valuable or pleasant things that are not looked for. The Gargoyle was such a pleasant surprise. I admit that I bought this book for the cover. First for the beautiful tattoo on the woman's back and second for the title. I figured that the flaming red heart indicated a love story and I was ready for that. I read stories of vampires and wearwolfs and zombies throughout the year. I was ready for a gargoyle story. I couldn' Serendipity. I like that word. It means: luck that takes the form of finding valuable or pleasant things that are not looked for. The Gargoyle was such a pleasant surprise. I admit that I bought this book for the cover. First for the beautiful tattoo on the woman's back and second for the title. I figured that the flaming red heart indicated a love story and I was ready for that. I read stories of vampires and wearwolfs and zombies throughout the year. I was ready for a gargoyle story. I couldn't quite imagine what it would be, but I was ready. I was not ready. I was not prepared. I was blindsided! I was transported into a story that I had no idea could be so facinating. The story is told in first person. I never got to know the man's name, but the rest of the characters are burned into my memory, even the dog. This was a story told within a story and all wrapped up beautifully at the end. Great stories, stand-alone stories so well integrated together that I COULD HARDLY BELIE THAT THIS WAS THE AUTHOR'S FIRST BOOK! Yes. It is true. I learned many things. I learned about the difference between a gargoyle and a grotesque. I learned about Italian and German literature translations of Dante's Inferno . I learned about modern medical practices in hospital burn wards and about schizophrenia and manic-depressive disorders. These things were parts of the story, but important. The rest was love. Yes, it was a love story. ...more 4.5 stars - Incredible. I really loved it. Probably the most unique love story I have ever read - one that takes the reader through the multiple hells of Dante's Inferno while being simultaneously horrific and profoundly beautiful. You have the most unlikely of heros - a cynical porn star that enjoys his drugs and struggles with his faith. After a tragic accident his life is completely changed once he meets a peculiar woman that tells him they have been in love for centuries. It is an unforgetta 4.5 stars - Incredible. I really loved it. Probably the most unique love story I have ever read - one that takes the reader through the multiple hells of Dante's Inferno while being simultaneously horrific and profoundly beautiful. You have the most unlikely of heros - a cynical porn star that enjoys his drugs and struggles with his faith. After a tragic accident his life is completely changed once he meets a peculiar woman that tells him they have been in love for centuries. It is an unforgettable story that shows humans at their best and their worst, one which moves boundlessly over 700 years and numerous lands, including Iceland and Germany. There is no mushy-gushiness or conventional romance to be found in this one, but a beautiful and passionate tale is revealed for the open minded reader from the most unlikely of dark and disturbing places. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: The urge is always with me to retouch yesterday\u2019s canvas with today\u2019s paintbrush and cover the things that fill me with regret. First Sentence: Accidents ambush the unsuspecting, often violently, just like love. ...more The unnamed narrator of Andrew Davidson's debut novel \"The Gargoyle\" may be beautiful to the world but internally, his life is a mess. Raised as an orphan by his two meth-addicted cousins and then in foster care, he's now a adult cinema star whose life is built upon looks and appearances rather than any real depth. He's addicted to drugs, drinks too much and all of this leads to him to a horrific car accident in which he is horribly burned over most of his body, even going so far as to burn and The unnamed narrator of Andrew Davidson's debut novel \"The Gargoyle\" may be beautiful to the world but internally, his life is a mess. Raised as an orphan by his two meth-addicted cousins and then in foster care, he's now a adult cinema star whose life is built upon looks and appearances rather than any real depth. He's addicted to drugs, drinks too much and all of this leads to him to a horrific car accident in which he is horribly burned over most of his body, even going so far as to burn and render virtually useless his primary source of fame and income. Miraculously surviving the incident, the narrator is put through a brutal hell of surgeries with his only motivation to get well enough to leave the hospital so he can take his own life. His life is ruined by the accident in more ways than one. But then, a mysterious woman comes into his life, claiming the two have shared a love that spans history and transcends time. At first, the narrator can't believe something can or would exist or that anyone could love him in his burned state. But as the story progresses, he learns the true meaning of love from Marianne Engel's standing over him to her sharing their story from history. Sure, it sounds like kind of a strange idea and very similar to another book I read recently, \"Somewhere in Time\" but it all works in this debut novel from Andrew Davidson. The narrator is dark and cynical to begin the story, but as we see him mellow under the guidance of Marriane and others in his life, we see him go from a shallow man to a human being with inner beauty that shines beyond his physical body. We see him slowly gain a soul, thus making the ending of the story all the more heartbreaking. ...more This is not just a book, it's an adventure. You can tell that Davidson did not rush this book. The writing is detailed and vivid but not overdone. The characters jump off the page when you're reading this book, its like you're right there with them. It's amazing, it's a great read, it's an experience. This book should not be underestimated, there are stories within stories and meanings within meanings and real depth. The writing is excellent. This book will move you emotionally and not always for This is not just a book, it's an adventure. You can tell that Davidson did not rush this book. The writing is detailed and vivid but not overdone. The characters jump off the page when you're reading this book, its like you're right there with them. It's amazing, it's a great read, it's an experience. This book should not be underestimated, there are stories within stories and meanings within meanings and real depth. The writing is excellent. This book will move you emotionally and not always for the better. I will never be able to hear about a burn victim again without cringing and thinking back to this book. I will never get the scene of the Archangel Michael in hell out of my head. It was beautifully done!! I was a little disappointed with the ending being anti-climatic but I'm hoping that's because there will be a sequel. So here I am having to go on to another book, which always stinks after finding a great book, because many subsequent books pale in comparison. I was used to mundane writing and it made me happy but now I've tasted greatness and everything else doesn't make the grade. Its like being a kid and thinking that Hershey's chocolate is great, until you grow up and taste real chocolate and know that you've been eating crap all those years. Oh well..... ...more I think this waas the third or fourth time I read this book and I am happy to say, I love it even more! In the meantime I have read Inferno by Dante as well, which made some of the things in this book clearer or put it imto more context than before. Also I loved taking my time with the book, as I knew where it would lead and didn't feel the rush of wanting to find out the ending but cherished spending time with the characters and the prose. The story touched me just as it does every time and I had I think this waas the third or fourth time I read this book and I am happy to say, I love it even more! In the meantime I have read Inferno by Dante as well, which made some of the things in this book clearer or put it imto more context than before. Also I loved taking my time with the book, as I knew where it would lead and didn't feel the rush of wanting to find out the ending but cherished spending time with the characters and the prose. The story touched me just as it does every time and I had to take frequent breaks to let the events sink in and reflect on them. I know I always say this, but READ THIS BOOK! ...more Fabulous! You reader are in for a grand time. Davidson is a master storyteller. The reader is given a wonderful and detailed story but you must choose what you will take away as truth or fantasy. Maybe it's a little bit of both. The book has been placed on my favorite shelf. I loved how the narrator is unnamed but he speaks to you as if he personally knows you. A love story at its best with the stamp of redemption all over it. Please Mr. Davidson release another book quickly! It took me just a few days to read this, but already I've forgotten most of it. I decided not to review it last night when I finished it because I wanted to think on it and give it a fair shot, but now I feel like it's all just a fuzzy memory. Not a tell-tale sign of a new favorite of mine. The premise certainly isn't original, though I'm not sure that particularly matters. The self-absorbed hotty narrator has spent the majority of his adult life drinking, drugging, and being a porn star, but ver It took me just a few days to read this, but already I've forgotten most of it. I decided not to review it last night when I finished it because I wanted to think on it and give it a fair shot, but now I feel like it's all just a fuzzy memory. Not a tell-tale sign of a new favorite of mine. The premise certainly isn't original, though I'm not sure that particularly matters. The self-absorbed hotty narrator has spent the majority of his adult life drinking, drugging, and being a porn star, but very early on in the story almost dies in a traumatic and disfiguring accident... a traumatic and disfiguring accident that is repeated over and over again. Each time it was repeated I found I cared less and less. Probably not intentional, so therefore not a good start. While in the burn ward he meets Marianne Engel. Her name is another fact that is repeated ad nauseum. Rarely is she referred to simply as \"Marianne\"; it is constantly written as \"Marianne Engel\", as if there were more than one Marianne in the story. (Hint: There was only the one.) The narrator spends the majority of the book considering whether or not Marianne Engel is schizophrenic or just suffering from some other psychological issue - another point that is driven home to the point of almost causing me not to pick the book up again. In any case, I figured there would be a hook somewhere so I kept at it. Marianne Engel tries to convince the narrator that they're lovers from past lives, so approximately every other chapter is a \"flashback\" to another century. Some authors can manage the time-jumping with grace, but for whatever reason it never quite worked in The Gargoyle. Instead what happened for me was at the end of each chapter I found I wanted to put the book down and not pick it up again. In any case Marianne Engel tells these stories to the narrator in order to keep him alive since the only reason he fought for his survival in the hospital was so he could kill himself once he got out. Oy, okay, what ever. All I really could focus on was just how horrible a doggy-parent Marianne Engel was to her animal. The fact that I was that focused on what is probably such a minor part of the story only illustrates the point I'm trying to make - the story itself did not hold my interest. This isn't a horrible story, but certainly not original or interesting enough to keep me hooked. I realize this review will likely make me insanely unpopular, though my reviews have never been for the sake of popularity anyway. I skimmed through a lot of the GR reviews and am baffled at the overwhelming amount of 5-star reviews and I really wonder what book they were reading. As a debut novel I do believe Davidson did an okay job. Was this job at all worth the hype surrounding this book? Absolutely not. But then that seems to be the case in so many situations these days - the hype is always worth more than the actual story, an issue that has made me wary of a lot of contemporary fiction. It probably didn't help that I read this after seeing so many previews for that freaking movie, Beastly , a modern take on Beauty and the Beast - a story not far from my mind while reading The Gargoyle - the whole heart-of-gold, love-will-keep-us-alive, climb-every-mountain thing. Maybe once upon a time it would have worked for me. But even with the inclusion of all the discussion of and comparisons to The Inferno in this book, I couldn't shake the mental Beauty and the Beast concept I already had in my head. And you know if references to Dante don't win me over, there is something seriously not right. ...more ---Wow...just where do I start? Honestly, I was not sure whether I was going to read this book or not. I took the book home from the library 2 weeks ago, read a few gory pages and then stopped. I then read that this debut author, Andrew Davidson, was given a $2 million dollar advance on this book, and I had to read it to see what all the hype was about. I am so glad I did. The Gargoyle, is a story about redemption. This book is not for the faint of heart. The story begins with a horrible car accid ---Wow...just where do I start? Honestly, I was not sure whether I was going to read this book or not. I took the book home from the library 2 weeks ago, read a few gory pages and then stopped. I then read that this debut author, Andrew Davidson, was given a $2 million dollar advance on this book, and I had to read it to see what all the hype was about. I am so glad I did. The Gargoyle, is a story about redemption. This book is not for the faint of heart. The story begins with a horrible car accident which burns, disfigures and cripples the narrator, whose name we never learn. The accident was caused by an alcohol and drug induced hallucination. There is graphic depiction of what goes on in a burn unit (it is stomach churning to say the least). If you can make it through the first 40-50 pages, the best is yet to come. Before the accident, the narrator was a young, handsome porn star who spent his days seducing beautiful women, and getting high on drugs and alcohol. He did not feel anything and begins hating himself and those around him. It's only after he has lost everything that he begins to gain an understanding of beauty and compassion, and actually sees his life as better after being disfigured and starting over. While our narrator is recovering in the hospital, we are introduced to Marianne Engel (never just Marianne??). Marianne Engel is a woman with a mental disorder who is convinced she has been alive for the past 700 years and that she loved the narrator in another life. As she spins tales for him of love, he finds the possibility of redemption. The narrator must determine if his new found love is real or delusional. The redemptive nature and the well developed characters more than make up for the queasy stomach I briefly endured. RECOMMEND. ...more \"Yes, that\u2019s exactly what love is: a tiny, jittery primate with eyes that are permanently peeled open in fear.\" 4.5 Los pesares y extensos mon\u00f3logos internos de La G\u00e1rgola comienzan con un accidente automovil\u00edstico. Ya en las primeras hojas, una estrella porno cocain\u00f3mana termina brutalmente quemada; un hombre ego\u00edsta, tocado por nada y conmovido por poco. Esta gran desgracia (la belleza perdida, la actividad estancada) significa una bisagra en su vida ya que es en el hospital (larga recuperaci\u00f3 \"Yes, that\u2019s exactly what love is: a tiny, jittery primate with eyes that are permanently peeled open in fear.\" 4.5 Los pesares y extensos mon\u00f3logos internos de La G\u00e1rgola comienzan con un accidente automovil\u00edstico. Ya en las primeras hojas, una estrella porno cocain\u00f3mana termina brutalmente quemada; un hombre ego\u00edsta, tocado por nada y conmovido por poco. Esta gran desgracia (la belleza perdida, la actividad estancada) significa una bisagra en su vida ya que es en el hospital (larga recuperaci\u00f3n aguardando) donde todo comienza. El cambio llega en la persona de Marianne Engel, una loca linda con m\u00e1s historias y secretos que cabellos en la cabeza. Pero bueno, seg\u00fan ella, la historia no empieza realmente all\u00ed. La historia que engloba a todas las historias empieza much\u00edsimo antes. Cuenta la leyenda (y Marianne Engel) que La Gargouille era uno de esos dragones medio rompe huevos, de aquellos a los que les encantaban las nimiedades como \"escupir fuego, soltar enormes chorros de agua y arrancar \u00e1rboles grandes con sus garras.\" (Era como un lindo cachorrito, \u00bfno?) Sembraba terror en lugares cercanos (vaya a saber porqu\u00e9) y, para contraatacar, el pueblo de Rouen (obvio conocedor de los sabios m\u00e9todos de anta\u00f1o y de siempre) por supuesto decidi\u00f3 recurrir a la t\u00e1ctica infalible de ofrecer v\u00edrgenes en sacrificio para calmar la sed de la bestia. Como era de esperar, los sacrificios solamente \"calmaban\" a la bestia y el pueblo tuvo que bancarse unas cuantas d\u00e9cadas para la paz total ya que no ser\u00eda hasta la llegada del sacerdote Romanus, que la amenaza de La Gargouille llegar\u00eda a su fin de una vez por todas. (Esto es leyenda, una leyenda real, pero una leyenda al fin y al cabo.) Para hacerla corta... \"La \u00fanica manera de matar un drag\u00f3n, como todo el mundo sabe, es quemarlo en la hoguera, y eso fue lo que hicieron. Los aullidos de agon\u00eda de La Gargouille sonaban a m\u00fasica celestial a o\u00eddos de los vecinos. Los gritos continuaron hasta el mism\u00edsimo final, porque la cabeza y el cuello de La Gargouille se negaban a arder. La habilidad de echar fuego del drag\u00f3n hab\u00eda nmunizado esas zonas contra el calor. Pero al final la bestia muri\u00f3 y los aldeanos se libraron de su antigua maldici\u00f3n. \" Ese es el abrupto final de la bestia, pero una peque\u00f1a parte del conglomerado de historias que Marianne Engel narra pacientemente a largo de THE GARGOYLE . Cada historia aporta a la trama, es parte vital, es sentimiento encontrado. Distintas \u00e9pocas, distintas culturas se abrazan en la voz de Marianne y, hasta tal punto uno (el lector) puede llegar a perderse en las tramas dentros de tramas, que volver a la realidad de la novela a veces se siente abrupto, como una sacudida. La g\u00e1rgola es un gran laberinto, pero siempre con un camino claro. Acompa\u00f1an Dante , muchas historias b\u00edblicas y mitos por doquier. (El uso de referencias nunca es pesado, por suerte.) Davidson quiz\u00e1s no sea un gran escritor pero s\u00ed (parece, al menos) un gran conocedor. Lo que m\u00e1s enamora de esta novela en particular (al menos en mi caso) es la clara apreciaci\u00f3n a la literatura de cierto estilo , a la historia, a los ideales rom\u00e1nticos de hace cientos de a\u00f1os (varias historias parecen calcadas de historias de la Edad Media y antes- mucha fantas\u00eda y exageraci\u00f3n, pero sin llegar a lo rid\u00edculo.) Tiene buenas descripciones (aunque la caracterizaci\u00f3n a veces deja un poco que desear) y genial ambientaci\u00f3n (algo a destacar ya que imagino que debe ser dif\u00edcil estar cambiando de \u00e9poca tantas veces.) La G\u00e1rgola es un libro para disfrutar. Para leer mansos y tranquilos . Si quieren algo lleno de emoci\u00f3n y aventura, probablemente se decepcionen con \u00e9ste. Mejor dejarlo para otro momento, cuando se sientan listos para devorar una novela a pedacitos. Es un libro que va despacio, es preferible entonces que el lector vaya a ese ritmo tambi\u00e9n. \u201cYou are mine, I am yours: you may be sure of this. You\u2019ve been locked inside my heart, the key has been thrown away; within it, you must always stay.\" ...more \u2018Gargoyle\u2019 by Andrew Davidson is like no other novel. It revolves around a beautiful but utterly corrupt, nameless, pornographer who is burnt beyond recognition. For him although he lives, he is already dead. Marianne Engel is the elusive, haunting and unstable sculptress of the stone Gargoyles; the title of the novel. Ultimately, she is his saviour in a way that he could never have understood previously. This novel reaches beyond the reader\u2019s usual expectations. It is a story of great depth; an \u2018Gargoyle\u2019 by Andrew Davidson is like no other novel. It revolves around a beautiful but utterly corrupt, nameless, pornographer who is burnt beyond recognition. For him although he lives, he is already dead. Marianne Engel is the elusive, haunting and unstable sculptress of the stone Gargoyles; the title of the novel. Ultimately, she is his saviour in a way that he could never have understood previously. This novel reaches beyond the reader\u2019s usual expectations. It is a story of great depth; an exploration of religion, our souls and the human capacity to love. The prose is both pragmatic and dreamlike; the nameless burn victim, when beautiful, is the gargoyle of the title. The story of marianne\u2019s heart and his redemption is a reflection of us all and talks to our unexpressed need for unconditional love; it is a prayer to love and hope and it lingers long after its final page. I was luck enough to win a copy of this book and I found a Novel so deep, I would love to know the author's influences and how he concieved a first novel so profound and fluent to read. The structure, pace, and descriptive prose are both original and magic. There is nothing else I can say. I have read thousands of books in my lifetime and this is one of the few that will remain with me. Congratulations Andrew. ...more Grabbed this book up from the library anxious to get on with what was apparently sold for over a million by the author. Shucks. The calculus must be (always has been?) about profit, not story. Is this too harsh? Read the book. ALL first person, which is sort of ok, except this author is in and outside his own story, at times tracking it from an objective viewpoint, and at other times overly-descriptive and precise about what-we-do-not-know. The book sort of clumsily cuts between vignettes of pre Grabbed this book up from the library anxious to get on with what was apparently sold for over a million by the author. Shucks. The calculus must be (always has been?) about profit, not story. Is this too harsh? Read the book. ALL first person, which is sort of ok, except this author is in and outside his own story, at times tracking it from an objective viewpoint, and at other times overly-descriptive and precise about what-we-do-not-know. The book sort of clumsily cuts between vignettes of previous experiences/lives and the present state. The worst part is that the author maintains a false objectivity toward his main character, so that we never really get inside of her head or understood her. She stayed flat, if eccentric. As did he. I never really accepted his own descriptions of himself; they just didn't become part of his history (his porn job particularly, and all his self-absorption). I mean, hey, CUT the part about your parents as meth-heads. What purpose did that serve? And what about the ending? \"What if this was true?\" he asks. Wow, well, then, it should have been 200 pages shorter. ...more I read this book a week ago and I've been mulling over exactly what I want to say about it, but I'm still not sure what that is. Simply put, I really loved the book. It was one of those wonderful books that sucked me in and I could not put it down until it was finished with me. Part of the reason I loved it was for the way there were stories within stories within stories, like some kind of literary Russian nested doll. Seeing how the stories connect together across time and cultures is a reminde I read this book a week ago and I've been mulling over exactly what I want to say about it, but I'm still not sure what that is. Simply put, I really loved the book. It was one of those wonderful books that sucked me in and I could not put it down until it was finished with me. Part of the reason I loved it was for the way there were stories within stories within stories, like some kind of literary Russian nested doll. Seeing how the stories connect together across time and cultures is a reminder of how stories have the power to connect us to one another. Also, I loved the voice of the unnamed narrator. Intelligent, sarcastic, cynical, and, toward the end, a believable change in his perspective without succumbing to maudlin sentimentality. ...more It's hard to believe that this is a first novel, it is a very well accomplished book, I can see me becoming an Andrew Davidson fan over time. What I loved most about the Gargoyle is that it is so hard to categorise. It is a love story, an adventure story, a supernatural thriller, a horror tale (perhaps?) and there are many heart wrenching and indeed comedic moments in the book. The characters are all very well developed and the parallels and use of Dante's Inferno have kicked my curiosity into ove It's hard to believe that this is a first novel, it is a very well accomplished book, I can see me becoming an Andrew Davidson fan over time. What I loved most about the Gargoyle is that it is so hard to categorise. It is a love story, an adventure story, a supernatural thriller, a horror tale (perhaps?) and there are many heart wrenching and indeed comedic moments in the book. The characters are all very well developed and the parallels and use of Dante's Inferno have kicked my curiosity into overdrive in a desire to read it I was given the opportunity to read this as part of a Goodreads giveaway and having read it I would certainly go out and buy the next Andrew Davidson novel I urge you to read this book I cannot believe anyone would be disappointed with it ...more This has got to be one of the best books I have ever read!", "Title": "The Gargoyle"},
