{"Comments": "\"Is it better than <---C>Eragon</---C>??\" Lots of people have asked me if I liked <+++>Eldest</+++> better or thought it was a better book.<---F> Yes and no</---F>. The writing was more coherent and sounded less inexperienced, and some of the perspective changes made it easier to read. But if a writer doesn't get better on his second book or as he gets older,<---M> he's kind of a jerk</---M>, eh? But Chris was quite a bit more aware this time that he had an audience, that his book's arrival was being anticipated with bitten nails, whining, and d \"Is it better than Eragon??\" Lots of people have asked me if I liked <+++>Eldest</+++> better or thought it was a better book. Yes and no. The writing was more coherent and sounded less inexperienced, and some of the perspective changes made it easier to read. But if a writer doesn't get better on his second book or as he gets older, he's kind of a jerk, eh? But Chris was quite a bit more aware this time that he had an audience, that his book's arrival was being anticipated with bitten nails, whining, and drool. He therefore did even more of that language dress-up and song-and-dance, more of that irritating demonstration of his belief that the words themselves should be the art rather than the art being the story they describe. Paolini appears to be convinced that talking in pseudo-archaic language is grand and epic rather than HOKEY AS HELL. In talking about the novel's inconsistency with place names: Chris claims that all of Alaga\u00ebsia's different areas are sorta mix-n-match because all the places were settled by different races. Umm . . . in real life, usually if that is the case then each race or culture has a name for each area, and depending on which language the map is in, you will see different names. \"While this is of great historical interest,\" he writes, \"practically it often leads to confusion as to the correct pronunciation. Unfortunately, there are no set rules for the neophyte. The enthusiast is encouraged to study the source languages in order to master their true intricacies.\" The source languages? The ones that are in your head?? No one is convinced by this ramble that there is actually an alternate world where these languages are spoken. Odd how instead of doing his homework, Paolini makes up an excuse for why homework is not necessary in this instance. And then he says this: \"One more volume to go and we shall reach the end of this tale. One more manuscript of heartache, ecstasy, and perseverance. . . . One more codex of dreams.\" I'm going to die. Codex of dreams?? \"Stay with me, if it please you, and let us see where this winding path will carry us, both in this world and in Alaga\u00ebsia.\" I'll tell you where it's going to lead us. Read The Hero's Journey , go watch Star Wars , study some Lord of the Rings and some obscure mythology, steal some words from ancient languages and pretend they're magic words, and read Story by Robert McKee and The Writer's Handbook , and then write a book ganking one or two aspects from all the other high fantasy you've read and liked. That's the formula. It should work for you too. Instead of saying Murtagh and the Twins are \"dead,\" the narration \"sneakily\" refers to them as \"gone.\" That way, after the characters have lamented their kidnapping and apparent death, Paolini can rejoice in the fact that he tricked us into thinking they were dead, but then point and laugh when they reappear on the battlefield and say \"HA, see I never SAID they were dead!\" We know you didn't. As soon as they found no bodies, we knew they were coming back. This was not a surprise. Saphira's magic powers. It's been said throughout the books so far that magic comes from dragons and whatnot, but that Saphira and other dragons don't really use it the same as elves and humans do. It's pointed out several times that the \"rules\" for dragons performing magic are not set--I suppose that's so that whatever Saphira wants to do, she can do, period. Also, Saphira was the one who broke the Star Rose and pissed everyone off. But if she heals it, she'll be honored for \"uncounted generations.\" Does this bother anyone else? I would think that the dwarves would pretty much reluctantly agree to tolerate her presence if she undid the damage she did and maybe kissed up to them for a few thousand years. I somehow doubt that she'd suddenly be a hero just because she's willing to clean up her own mess. I think my BIGGEST problem is with the incoherent magic system. A lot of people have either said this book is NOT predictable--which tells me they probably have never read another high fantasy book--or they make up a bunch of excuses why it's okay to be predictable because this is a basic story type. Sure, by all means, excuse it for all its faults because it is a hero \"type\" story. Which of course means that he should do the same things in the same order as every hero of myth and fantasy from Odysseus to Luke Skywalker. A book should not be so based on a story \"type\" that it feels like it is following a template; every \"revelation\" in this book is more of a confirmation of a suspicion than an actual surprise. BAD WRITING: NARRATION - \"For gray-eyed Destiny now weaves apace, the first resounding note of war echoes across the land.\" Or you could try to be a little more vague, please. And I think this needs to sound a little more like bad teenage poetry. No, really. Is there anything to be understood from calling Destiny \"gray-eyed\"? Do these words actually mean anything? If not, then why were they chosen? - First line: \"The songs of the dead are the lamentations of the living.\" Eragon's walking along through a battlefield thinking this. Unless I really don't understand something, this sentence is an attempt to write romantically but actually does not say anything. - Eragon's tear was described as \"A small, glistening dome.\" I think I have discovered something. <---A>Christopher Paolini</---A> has never actually seen a tear before. And the trend continues in this book for there to be a single tear. Doesn't anyone actually cry, with buckets of tears and snot pouring out of their noses? I wanna see boogers and red eyes and wet cheeks and actual SORROW. Not a single tear. That's nothing but a mockery of sadness. - Completely ridiculous simile: \"Slippers flashing beneath her dress, like mice darting from a hole.\" First of all, why would you compare someone's feet to MICE? - \"The dawnless morning. . . . \" Should I even say? Yes, I should. HOW IS IT MORNING IF THERE WAS NO DAWN? Why does he think this sounds cool? He is so obsessed with making things sound cool that he doesn't even think to himself, \"Wait, this makes no sense. How is it a 'dawnless' morning?\" - \"He closed his eyes and sank into the warm dusk that separates consciousness and sleep, where reality bends and sways to the winds of thought, and where creativity blossoms in its freedom from boundaries and all things are possible.\" I don't know. Don't you just want to, I don't know . . . DIE right now? - Can you visualize this scene? \"Katrina screamed again and jumped on the men, biting and clawing furiously. Her sharp nails furrowed their faces, drawing streams of blood that blinded the cursing soldiers.\" I cannot see this. At all. One woman--who might be somewhat tough but is not superhuman--is somehow biting and clawing . . . several men at once . . . to the point that they are all blinded by the blood that runs from the scratches she has caused. Oh, and they respond by standing there cursing, not, say, immobilizing her. I don't mean to be sexist, but surely it would take no more than two men to subdue a woman who is fighting with her frickin' fingernails. CP, the idea is to try to actually visualize this happening, and then THROW OUT SCENES THAT ARE STUPID. - \"Bright as a flaming sun.\" Call me weird, but are there any suns that aren't, oh, in flames? Could we have some similes here that don't forget that they are for description above and beyond sounding cool? - \"Hair as black as a forgotten pool.\" Being forgotten does not make water black. I bet there's tons of pools around that have been forgotten and nevertheless are not black. What exactly does this simile mean? - \"Silent as the night.\" Ever been in the night, Chris? It's pretty quiet in your room with your earplugs in, I guess. This is silly. I won't even go on with this one. - As the book winds up to make its climax, there are all kinds of REALLY dramatic sentences that are so silly they just make me cringe. \"Shall we dance, friend of my heart?\" \"That is the sound of our destiny.\" There is a time and a place for drama. But asking \"shall we dance?\" upon going into battle is one of the goofiest things I've heard in my life. This makes me wonder whether CP watches the movies that would be shown on MST3K and thinks the dialogue is smooth. The parts that he's making \"colorful\" with zesty little words like \"proclaimed\" and \"apologized\" and \"expectorated\" are not the parts of the story that NEED to be colorful. They are middle school English attempts to make writing varied. What needs to be colorful is the storytelling, the descriptions, the dialogue. Not the permutations of \"said.\" It's misplaced. That's why editors and publishers look at that as the hallmark of the amateur writer. Because it indicates a basic misunderstanding of the whole point of language. His problem is that he concentrates so much on making his prose elegant that he doesn't understand that prose's job is to be elegant enough to be invisible. A quote from Paolini: \"In my writing, I strive for a lyrical beauty somewhere between Tolkien at his best and Seamus Heaney\u2019s translation of Beowulf.\" Well . . . I suppose we can give him an A for effort. We definitely see the trying. - And last but not least: The overused, horrific \"you should be hit on the head by a troupe of 100 literature professors if you do this\" literary device: HAVING THE VILLAIN EXPLAIN EVERYTHING IN THE END. And the fact that it was written in such a way that the author obviously thought having these characters charge in as the main villains of the story when everyone thought they were dead just adds insult to injury. This sort of writing just insults my intelligence. If you didn't see this coming or thought it was a revelation, please go find that aforementioned troupe of literature professors and let them hit you for a while. I'll join in. ...more I hate Eragon, but I was intrigued to see if Paolini has improved, so I borrowed this book and attempted to read it. I hate Eragon. I hate Eldest even more. If Eragon is bad, it at least had a semblance of a traditional plot - the introduction, the buildup, the climax, and the teaser for the next chapter of the journey. Eldest started off with a flat summary, then it went straight into a continuation from the previous story, and around 600 pages of exposition full of step-by-step miniscule details I hate Eragon, but I was intrigued to see if Paolini has improved, so I borrowed this book and attempted to read it. I hate Eragon. I hate Eldest even more. If Eragon is bad, it at least had a semblance of a traditional plot - the introduction, the buildup, the climax, and the teaser for the next chapter of the journey. Eldest started off with a flat summary, then it went straight into a continuation from the previous story, and around 600 pages of exposition full of step-by-step miniscule details that have no bearing towards the plot at all, before finally going to a faux-climax again. The faux-climax battle of dragons comes out of the blue, as there was a sadly sparse attempt of interweaving it with the bulk of the book. I rather thought the 600 page could be edited out to just 10 pages, and it might've made the book a bit better and much more bearable for the readers. So how did I bear reading the book? I didn't. I skimmed through the book, saving myself from the complete painful experience, yet still scarred enough to warn other people against reading it. The 600 page in short: emo angsting, super!protagonist transformation, excessive hero worship, and fumbly teenage crushing. God only knows what Paolini's last chapter will be like. All I know is that if this is what people call good writing, I, like many others, fear for humanity. NOTE : If you're an Eragon fangirl huffing and puffing about my review being mean, save your energy. I'll just ignore and delete your comment. Why? Because I can. This is my review of the said book and it won't change just because you're twisting your knickers over it. If you don't like it, move along, find a review you like, hug each other and sing kumbaya together over a Saphira spit roast. ...more Slow for the first half but really picked up and actually got very very good! All the twists and turns introduced have boggled my mind... time to move onto book three... Do Elves have pubic hair? Are Orc marriages performed with ceremonies? What is the life cycle of the giant birds the Nazgul ride? If questions like these have haunted you ever since you delved into the world of fantasy, look no further for your answers! Eldest continues the saga started in Eragon by sending our plucky hero into the land of the Elves in order to complete his training as a Rider. There, we learn absolutely everything you (n)ever wanted to know about the Elves (think of it as though Do Elves have pubic hair? Are Orc marriages performed with ceremonies? What is the life cycle of the giant birds the Nazgul ride? If questions like these have haunted you ever since you delved into the world of fantasy, look no further for your answers! Eldest continues the saga started in Eragon by sending our plucky hero into the land of the Elves in order to complete his training as a Rider. There, we learn absolutely everything you (n)ever wanted to know about the Elves (think of it as though the Lord of the Rings treated the different races not as allegories, but as Star Trek races, with their own anthropologies). Alas, all the training is worthless in changing Eragon. They then must ask the hot, female, identical twin Elves to stand naked back to back and jiggle so as to make the dragon tattoo running over their bodies release the \"spirit of the dragon\". This, it seems, triggers the desired transformation (Freudian minds, insert your own joke here). Meanwhile, back on the farm, Eragon's cousin Roran comes into his own by mowing down opposition to lead his people to freedom (he even counts them as he goes along, i.e. \"And now I've killed five men\"). His story aligns with Eragon's just in time for him to destroy in one page of action a threat bloated out to be important in the previous 500. I can't wait for book three; do you think we'll find out the literacy rates for Dwarf children? ...more Ok thank you for continuing on from my Eragon review. Now remember step one from the last review yea ok we'll call it Step 5: Go to the store and buy Eldest...Ok now follow these steps. Step 6: I hope you've learned from your previous mistakes and set nonperishable snack foods withing reach as to keep reading while eating. Now get an empty 2 littter bottle don't worry..you'll figure it out. Finally get a drink that is pretty good a room temperature or if you just really like cold drinks be sure Ok thank you for continuing on from my Eragon review. Now remember step one from the last review yea ok we'll call it Step 5: Go to the store and buy Eldest...Ok now follow these steps. Step 6: I hope you've learned from your previous mistakes and set nonperishable snack foods withing reach as to keep reading while eating. Now get an empty 2 littter bottle don't worry..you'll figure it out. Finally get a drink that is pretty good a room temperature or if you just really like cold drinks be sure to get a cooler and a bag of ice. Make sure you've got a bottle of No-Doze handy Step 7: Now call all of your friends and family and tell them that you will not be answering your phone for at least the next 20 hours or so. Step 8: Turn phone off and or yank from wall and place a note on your door saying that your are ill and very contagious not to disturb unless world is coming to and end ...and even then you might want to consider waiting another day. Step 9: Turn on the light above your head even if it is daylight outside trust me that could become a pesky motion when you have to get up to do it later. You'll probably be right at the part where Eragon discovers...oh sorry bout gave it away there. Step 10: find the most comfortable place where all of the essentials can be within arms reach and bring a blanket incase you get cold, matter of fact turn the air on and get the blanket cause you don't want to be to hot...this book is intense. Step 11: Begin reading book.....wait for it....now. Step 12: OH MY GOD I KNOW!!!!!! Now you have to wait for the 3rd book just like the rest of us lol. Review to be continued aout 24 hours after the release of 3rd book. ...more 4.5 stars! Truly, I have nothing bad to say about this book. I liked every moment, was engaged, kept finding myself excited about the story. It did many fantasy elements well. I enjoyed the training portions, the shocking revelations, the magic system, seeing young love through a male protagonist's POV, and the fact that injury and disability in heroes during wartime was something that was represented. And DRAGONS. The dragon/rider relationship is my favorite part of this series. Even though I enj 4.5 stars! Truly, I have nothing bad to say about this book. I liked every moment, was engaged, kept finding myself excited about the story. It did many fantasy elements well. I enjoyed the training portions, the shocking revelations, the magic system, seeing young love through a male protagonist's POV, and the fact that injury and disability in heroes during wartime was something that was represented. And DRAGONS. The dragon/rider relationship is my favorite part of this series. Even though I enjoyed everything about this book, there's something holding me back from 5 stars. I still can't say this is a favorite series, but after being unimpressed with book 1, I was delighted to enjoy this one so much and am eager to continue the series! ...more This book affected me. More specifically, it affected my grades. At the time it came out I was going through tons of tests at school, it was really driving me crazy. So one day I arrive home, remember that I have a quite important test in two days; I turn my computer on to print some information that I needed to study and then I see somewhere that the book was out. I have always been kind of nerdy, so the fact that I couldn't stop reading this for four entire days didn't make my grades that much This book affected me. More specifically, it affected my grades. At the time it came out I was going through tons of tests at school, it was really driving me crazy. So one day I arrive home, remember that I have a quite important test in two days; I turn my computer on to print some information that I needed to study and then I see somewhere that the book was out. I have always been kind of nerdy, so the fact that I couldn't stop reading this for four entire days didn't make my grades that much lower, but they got somewhat damaged. Oh well, it was worth it because this book is perfect. This is one of those books for which you wait infinitely, then it comes out and you could literally kill someone to get your hands on it, after you get it you start reading it and you feel like you're coming back home after a really long trip; finally, when you're getting closer to the last ten pages, you start feeling like your existence is reaching the point where it's going to be pointless. For honesty's sake, I must confess that to this day, four years later, I can't bring myself to read the final ten pages. I can't bear even considering that I've read all there is about Eragon's story. The book begins with the same fast paced, warfare filled atmosphere as the end of Brisingr . Eragon, Saphire and their friends are succeeding at bringing their minor enemies down, but struggling to discover how in the seven hells they are going to defeat Galbatorix when it comes to direct combat. There is a series of moves and counter moves between the good guys and Galbatorix's forces: kidnappings, rescue missions; infiltration, counter infiltration; little victories, little defeats. Differently from the previous books, where the chapters filled with action were interspersed by calmer chapters filled with politics, this book was just one chapter that left you breathless jumping into another. I won't say anything more about the story, because this book doesn't deserve to be spoiled even for your worst enemy. I just wanna state that every single second of wait for this book was worth it, the attention to detail paid by Paolini is astounding; there are no loose ends at all, everything gets brilliantly explained. All the mysteries get unfold, all secrets revealed and, if you are a true fan of this series, by the end all your feelings get mixed into an imaginary messy ball of nostalgia and you don't know what to do with your life anymore. In a good way. Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: It's impossible to go through life unscathed. Nor should you want to. By the hurts we accumulate, we measure both our follies and our accomplishments. ...more I was very pleasantly surprised - Eldest laughs in the face of the so-called sophomore-slump curse. While I liked Eragon enough to give it five stars despite the weird feeling that it was a mediation between Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter, it was kind of slim in several places, character- and plot-wise. Not so in Eldest . Finally, some real meat to the relationships between characters, the government of Alagaesia, and the drive toward battle. My empathy was tested every time I was irritated ov I was very pleasantly surprised - Eldest laughs in the face of the so-called sophomore-slump curse. While I liked Eragon enough to give it five stars despite the weird feeling that it was a mediation between Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter, it was kind of slim in several places, character- and plot-wise. Not so in Eldest . Finally, some real meat to the relationships between characters, the government of Alagaesia, and the drive toward battle. My empathy was tested every time I was irritated over Eragon's infatuation with Arya, and I whispered along every time someone cast a spell in the ancient language. Finally getting to see Ellesmera, the land of the elves, I sympathized with Eragon as he found his niche there and then felt torn when it came time for him to leave. I can't wait for book 3. ...more This second installment in the Inheritance Cycle was extremely surprising for me. I find it hard to be surprised by most book endings, and this one had a twist that I was not looking for, so when it jumped out at me, I was almost knocked out of my chair with shock. This book goes much deeper into the world of Alagaesia, its myths and history, and the characters become much more complex. I felt for Eragon as his attempts at romance are spurned, and watched carefully as his bond with Saphira deepe This second installment in the Inheritance Cycle was extremely surprising for me. I find it hard to be surprised by most book endings, and this one had a twist that I was not looking for, so when it jumped out at me, I was almost knocked out of my chair with shock. This book goes much deeper into the world of Alagaesia, its myths and history, and the characters become much more complex. I felt for Eragon as his attempts at romance are spurned, and watched carefully as his bond with Saphira deepened. The arrival of the new dragon and his master was not completely unexpected, but up-ed the tension in the book to a necessary degree. Eragon must once again leave the safety he thought he had found behind and lead a rebellion to freedom. I was surprised, but happy to find that this was not a quaint little fight, and that this world was real, one where the bad guys don't play fair, and they go after the people Eragon most wants to protect in order to get to him. The book is chalk full of emotion and disappointed hopes. It makes for a great sequel and leaves you straining on your tip-toes for the next book in the series. ...more ***Warning: this review contains spoilers, and I'm a little mad that this kind of lameness was a bestseller. I mean, REALLY?*** Okay, so...I was able to stand Eragon pretty well, but... Eldest just about killed me. I have to be honest, I only made it about halfway through, then I skimmed over the rest because I was getting ill. I was able to skip pages of descriptions without missing any of the story. Which brings me to my first complaint: THERE ARE WHOLE PAGES DEVOTED TO DESCRIBING A ROOM! -_- Paoli ***Warning: this review contains spoilers, and I'm a little mad that this kind of lameness was a bestseller. I mean, REALLY?*** Okay, so...I was able to stand Eragon pretty well, but... Eldest just about killed me. I have to be honest, I only made it about halfway through, then I skimmed over the rest because I was getting ill. I was able to skip pages of descriptions without missing any of the story. Which brings me to my first complaint: THERE ARE WHOLE PAGES DEVOTED TO DESCRIBING A ROOM! -_- Paolini apparently thinks we have too little imagination to fill in any blanks. He doesn't describe anything in a way that leaves room for imagination, and yet I cannot clearly picture anything. So Paolini rambles on pointlessly for two or three pages describing every inch of something... and I still can't see it in my head. He doesn't know how to \"show, not tell.\" Descriptions should cut to the point, making it easy for us to envision it in our own way, because NO ONE pictures anything exactly the same as you, trying as hard as Paolini to give the reader the exact image that's in your head is pointless, because they never will. Good authors compare something to something else, like Suzanne Collins in The Hunger Games comparing Katniss' dress to candlelight. I got an image in my head. Paolini doesn't do the comparison thing. So he misses the mark. Second complaint: Roran... wow. I got sick of him. He doesn't hold my interest at all. Sadly, I didn't even care about Katrina getting kidnapped, and that brings me to a THIRD complaint: where is the morality? People seem to think these books are harmless, but Paolini doesn't set forth the best of morals in his main characters. Roran and Katrina sleep together before marriage, and I know that she gets pregnant before they're married. It's not even construed as being at all wrong, either. I am annoyed. It's awful, but I actually kinda wanted Sloan to strangle Roran...even though I don't like Sloan either. >.< Also, Paolini describes TOO MUCH. I didn't need to know that an elf's (Oromis, btw) body is completely hairless, um, even around the groin area. O.o I hate repeating that 'cause it totally grossed me out that he even said that. I mean, what is Paolini's problem?!?! But it's a perfect example of how some things are just better left unsaid. It's not necessary, and it's gross . Now, I'm no longer going to number my complaints, I'm just going to poke fun at everything...I'm horrid, I know. ;) Um, Eragon and Saphira seem to both have a problem with \"crushing on\" beings that are WAY older than themselves. I LAUGHED when Arya turned Eragon down and he cried. Big baby, he cried. I thought he was a strong man , Paolini... Oh, and Eragon is turned into like a half-elf thing. He's \"beautiful\" and perfect, and his scar is GONE! The whole scar things annoyed me. Paolini seems to set forth a concept in his books that anyone who is deformed by a scar or anything is worthless or something. Or at least I got that feeling, whether he intended it or not. SPEAKING OF SCARS, let's look at the scene where Murtagh (the best character in this entire series, who hasn't been played right and should've been the main character) comes back, a new rider with his red dragon, Thorn. After Murtagh tells Eragon that they're brothers, and says that the two of them are mirror images of each other, Eragon retorts that they're not alike, because his scar is gone. Low blow, Eragon. Paolini sets Eragon up to be this noble hero and here he is, throwing a \"deformation\" that is a painful remembrance to Murtagh, in the poor guy's face. THAT was badly done, badly done indeed. (That's right, I am getting all Mr. Knightley on him!). And, Paolini never construes it as wrong, either. Eragon's a beautiful elf-boy, Eragon is the perfect warrior, Eragon is awesome and we should be worshipful. >.< I don't know HOW Murtagh resisted killing Eragon, I guess he's actually rather nice, huh? >:P Another thing that annoyed me was the random usage of old-English speak. Sorry, but it was weird. One minute Eragon would be talking like a normal human being and the next he'd be using \"thees and thous\" The language really needed to be regularized...that's all. I've been reading a lot of booklets on how to write effectively, and everything says to cut the verbiage. Maybe Paolini should've learned this before he started writing his epic tale, because if he had...I can guarantee that this book would have been at least 2/3 the size it is now. So I'm done, if you made it all the way through this, thanks for reading. I'm not going to read Brisingr . I know what happens in it, and I don't care about it. I know I wouldn't be able to get through it without going insane anyways. ...more To say that Paolini's follow-up to Eragon is a disappointment is something like saying that George Lucas' Howard the Duck isn't quite as spectacular a film as Star Wars . It took me NINE MONTHS to force my way through this drivel-saturated sequel, and turning each page required an act of will. WARNING: Spoilers below. If Eragon is Tolkien fanfiction, Eldest reads like the world's longest Mary Sue story. In between soapboxing about religion and veganism, Eragon proves that you CAN have a character w To say that Paolini's follow-up to Eragon is a disappointment is something like saying that George Lucas' Howard the Duck isn't quite as spectacular a film as Star Wars . It took me NINE MONTHS to force my way through this drivel-saturated sequel, and turning each page required an act of will. WARNING: Spoilers below. If Eragon is Tolkien fanfiction, Eldest reads like the world's longest Mary Sue story. In between soapboxing about religion and veganism, Eragon proves that you CAN have a character who is whinier and more obnoxious than Anakin Skywalker in Episode II (to continue the Star Wars metaphor). He spends much of the book moping about his injured back and his unrequited love (a relationship which I find completely baseless and implausible) until, presto, deus ex dragon! -- the whiny brat is MAGICALLY transformed into a perfect and incredibly handsome specimen of Rider, whisking away not only his scars and physical infirmities, but also any sympathy the reader may have felt for him. The big twist ending of the book is hardly a surprise (honestly, I pegged Murtagh's true identity within a few pages of his character's introduction in Eragon -- was there anyone who DIDN'T see this coming?). By the end of the final battle, I was rooting for a real twist: That someone would put Eragon out of his misery and elevate some other, more interesting character to the title role. After reading Eldest , I don't know if I'll bother with the third book in the series. I'm usually a completist where trilogies are concerned, but this may be the exception. ...more Eldest , the second book in the inheritance trilogy by Christopher Paolini is disappointing largely because it's a long book in which very little happens. The narrative through most of the book switches back and forth between Eragon and Roran. Eragon is traveling across Alagaesia and eventually begins training as a dragon rider. As a result we get long swaths of exposition explaining every detail of Alagaesia and the philosophy of dragon riders. It's common in fat fantasies like the inheritance t Eldest , the second book in the inheritance trilogy by Christopher Paolini is disappointing largely because it's a long book in which very little happens. The narrative through most of the book switches back and forth between Eragon and Roran. Eragon is traveling across Alagaesia and eventually begins training as a dragon rider. As a result we get long swaths of exposition explaining every detail of Alagaesia and the philosophy of dragon riders. It's common in fat fantasies like the inheritance trilogy for the minute details of a meticulously constructed world to take center stage. As long as these details are balanced with a well paced plot, this is perfectly reasonable for the genre. The problem is that the only interesting plot developments in Eragon's story happen at the very beginning and the very end. Roran spends most of the book trying to save the people of Carvahall who have drawn the attention and the wrath of the empire. This thread provides all of the narrative tension through most of the novel. I found myself looking forward to the Roran chapters and dreading the Eragon chapters. Paolini is essentially rewriting Star Wars in a Lord of the Rings setting. You can say all you want about Joseph Campbell and the universality of myth, but it sure seems like Paolini rewatched The Empire Strikes Back whenever he had writer's block. Still, Eldest does have moments of brilliant originality. Particularly memorable is the character Elva to whom Eragon offers a blessing intended to make her shielded from misfortune. A mistake from the young magic user turns the blessing into a curse and Elva becomes a shield for misfortune instead. Elva absorbs the pain and suffering of others causing her to age prematurely. The character is creepy and disturbing. She also presents Eragon with his most interesting moral conundrum as he is responsible for her state. While we expect Eragon to kill Galbatorix in the end, it's unclear to me how the storyline with Elva will wrap up. I have a feeling that it will be an unrealistically happy ending, but maybe I'll be surprised. ...more Remember what I said about the first book in this series? How it shows promise, is an interesting take, blah blah? Yeah, forget it all. This was one of the biggest disappointments I've ever read. All of the promise and interest in the first story disappeared into a foul-smelling vapor within the first 2 chapters. The author has obviously forgotten the character parameters he set for his own characters, namely Eragon. This story takes place at most 6-9 months after the end of the first book, in w Remember what I said about the first book in this series? How it shows promise, is an interesting take, blah blah? Yeah, forget it all. This was one of the biggest disappointments I've ever read. All of the promise and interest in the first story disappeared into a foul-smelling vapor within the first 2 chapters. The author has obviously forgotten the character parameters he set for his own characters, namely Eragon. This story takes place at most 6-9 months after the end of the first book, in which Eragon was a very young teenager. He behaves and speaks as though he is a seasoned warrior of 30-35, complete with a sexual attraction to a woman hundreds of years older than himself! I realize this is a fantasy novel, but you've got to have believable interactions and relationships between your pre-set character traits. Not to mention the copious pages of made-up language was beyond tiresome. Good for you, Mr. Paolini. You can create a language just like your hero, Tolkein! We get it. Get on with it. Or rather, please don't. We've all seen Star Wars, Harry Potter, and Lord of the Rings. We already know how it will end. ...more (Most of) the negative critics out there are true, but this doesn't make the story any less enjoyable. \u201cEldest Book Review\u201d The book Eldest by Christopher Paolini is a book about a dragon and his rider. The two, intertwined by the magic of thought, journey through the land to Ellemera to study the arts of magic as he prepares to face off against the belligerent tyrant Galbatorix. The book had many interesting twists and turns. Eragon, the rider, has always thought to be the last rider, excluding the king and his evil riders, know as the foresworn. But suddenly, Ormoris, an Elvin rider appears to \u201cEldest Book Review\u201d The book Eldest by Christopher Paolini is a book about a dragon and his rider. The two, intertwined by the magic of thought, journey through the land to Ellemera to study the arts of magic as he prepares to face off against the belligerent tyrant Galbatorix. The book had many interesting twists and turns. Eragon, the rider, has always thought to be the last rider, excluding the king and his evil riders, know as the foresworn. But suddenly, Ormoris, an Elvin rider appears to teach Eragon what it means to be a rider. Also, as the story proceeds, Eragon begins to fall in love with Arya, but she discovers his feelings for her in the most interesting of ways. She found out from a stone tablet that he had \u201cimagines\u201d up. And in the end, Eragon finds a man that was his brother, and also, his father was revealed to him. A man he could not be proud of and a man killed my one of his former mentors. Although the story had a brilliant plot and a fascinating story, the story went far too slow. It took Eragon 300 pages to travel to Ellemera and learn magic, and 300 for his cousin, Roran, to escape the Ra\u2019zaac and flee to Surda. Leaving only the remaining 60 pages to the great battle and Roran\u2019s and Eragon\u2019s reunion. It\u2019s a good think to put details in his story, but he had too much detail, to the point where he could spend a paragraph or two just talking about what a character does or what he looked like, which I found could be irritating and annoying at some times. Despite the overloading of details, the story was an enjoyable read and hooks readers to read the next book with a sudden stop to the story in a very dramatic place. And the magics and the spells used seemed very believable. In other words, they weren\u2019t just randomly made up words. The works were cleverly disguised in a different language. Anyone who enjoys fiction or scientific fiction, or stories from the past would enjoy this book greatly. ...more This is crap. Paolini ditched almost all of Eragon's potential, spending his time in the land of elves who are smarter, more gorgeous, wiser, stronger, faster, longer-lived, better at magic, more hygenic, more tasteful, better at art, music, metalworking, and just generally better in every way than those poor, lowly humans. And. . .every man jack and woman girl of them is an atheist vegetarian! Yes, Paolini takes some clumsy but pervasive swipes against religion, demonstrating that he really doe This is crap. Paolini ditched almost all of Eragon's potential, spending his time in the land of elves who are smarter, more gorgeous, wiser, stronger, faster, longer-lived, better at magic, more hygenic, more tasteful, better at art, music, metalworking, and just generally better in every way than those poor, lowly humans. And. . .every man jack and woman girl of them is an atheist vegetarian! Yes, Paolini takes some clumsy but pervasive swipes against religion, demonstrating that he really doesn't know what the heck he's talking about. The fight scenes were all pretty bad too--most of them completely implausible. The Ra'zac should _ownz_ Roran! They're bird assassins from before the dawn of man, and he's a peasant with a hammer! I _did_ really like Nar Gazvog. And the dwarves were still pretty cool. I'll read the next book for the sake of Urgals, Shruikan (the evil black dragon), and to hopefully see Arya bite the dust. But I'm going to keep my expectations low. ...more I really enjoyed Roran rising up to become his own man and learn all the lessons of being a dragon rider along with Eragon. The level of detail in this story is astounding and it takes a very special kind of writer to not only come up with a story like this but to be able to keep all the different plots moving along smoothly without leaving loose threads that savvy readers could unravel. Bravo! The writings of Eragon are the lamentations of readers... NOTE: I listened to this on audiobook, so espect to find the names and places probably hideously misspelled. I would make an effort to correct the spelling if I cared. Eragon and the Vardan have defeated Galbatorix\u2019s forces at Farthen Dur. But Eragon\u2019s journey has only begun. He must now travel to Ellesmera to learn the ways of the dragon riders from the Elves. Meanwhile, his cousin, Roran, must defend his home of Carvahall from the Raz\u2019ac. The writings of Eragon are the lamentations of readers... NOTE: I listened to this on audiobook, so espect to find the names and places probably hideously misspelled. I would make an effort to correct the spelling if I cared. Eragon and the Vardan have defeated Galbatorix\u2019s forces at Farthen Dur. But Eragon\u2019s journey has only begun. He must now travel to Ellesmera to learn the ways of the dragon riders from the Elves. Meanwhile, his cousin, Roran, must defend his home of Carvahall from the Raz\u2019ac. But you might recognize it better as: Luke Skywalker and the Rebel Alliance have defeated the Empire's Death Star. But Luke's journey has only begun. He must now travel to Dagobah to learn the ways of the Jedi from the last remaining Jedi Master, a crazy old alien, Yoda. Meanwhile, Leia must defend the Millennium Falcon from Darth Vader and retrieve Han, her true love, from his clutches. I strove hard and long to find something admirable, enjoyable about this book. After much head-scratching I have one thing: Oromis teaching Eragon magic. Don't ask me why those parts interested me, but they did (few and far between though they be). Oh, no, wait, I have another favorite part: Vanna (White?) the Elf smack Eragon around. God, that almost makes the book worth reading. Well, not really... Other than these two very teeny, tiny blips on the Eldest radar, I found the \u201cstory\u201d painful to listen to, hour after agonizing hour. I must be an ascetic, for mustering through almost 24 hours of this mess. Actually, I probably listened to less, as I tended to wander off mentally only to return and find that absolutely nothing had happened! It\u2019s sad, when you\u2019re reading a novel only to learn that half of what you are reading isn\u2019t even important to the story. It\u2019s either a big, red warning sign that the author is writing piles and piles of fluff or that the editor fell asleep while editing the draft. In Eldest's case, I believe it was both. As we saw in Eragon, the characters in Eldest are terrible, starting with Eragon, our loosely-defined \"hero\" and a pitifully concealed variant of Aragorn/Luke Skywalker. (NOTE: Be prepared for copious comparison to LOTR and Star Wars, as Paolini loved both so much, he decided to write a fanfic about them hooking up and having babies. Eragon and Eldest are those \"babies.) Unlike either Aragorn or Luke, he is the most boring, bland, uninteresting, emotionless, stupid, insipid (yes, I can use big words too!) protagonists I\u2019ve ever read. Eragon never feels anything, he just cries out in anger or pain. The audience never feels any of his anger or pain, we are just told he has it. We suffer through his never-ending descriptions of descriptions of descriptions of everything around him, told with wide-eyed awe that made me wonder if this guy had been locked in a box as a child. We grimace as he stumbles over wooing Arya. We wince as things that are obvious, such as whether the Twins are traitors (they are, it\u2019s not a secret, you could tell in Eragon), are completely beyond him. We are belabored with reading him study such anachronistic subjects like electricity, magnetism, modern physics (Gravity!), and microbiology (milk spoils because of tiny organisms). I suppose if this novel had been established as a steampunk novel like The Golden Compass, this could have worked, but as it stands, this only shows how \u201cenlightened\u201d the Elves and Eragon are, to be studying these odd subjects (Medieval Elves know about microorganisms that spoil milk? People don\u2019t think electricity and magnetism are magic?). My head spent most of these sessions impacting a desk. I have the bruises as proof. And when Eragon becomes an Elf in the most contrived manner\u2026I am still recovering from that one. Then we have Arwen\u2014I mean, Arya. We learn here that she is\u2014GASP!\u2014a princess. Really, did no one see that coming? About the only other plot twist they could throw at us is if she is Eragon's sister. She is the most distant, cold, uninviting character (not Elf, not female, not protagonist, character ) I\u2019ve ever encountered. How are we supposed to want Eragon to fall in love with her when I\u2019ve seen granite with more personality?! How are we supposed to think she is so much better than dwarves when she is the one to start a fight with a dwarf about religion (she barges into their temple and begins to tell them how stupid they are to believe in gods with no provocation)? Why are we supposed to feel anything when she reunites with her mother, Queen Iszlanzardi? And what the heck was the beef between them anyway? Why bother to bring it up if there isn\u2019t even going to be a fight or a growth or a purpose to the difference of opinion? Then we have the poor forsaken Gimli-clone that accompanies Eragon. He is almost completely forgotten in the book, so much so that the author at one point finally remembers him and has Eragon comment on it. Why is he even in this book? What does he contribute to the story? Oh, right, can't knock a story when there really isn't one. Then we have all the characters that are basically carbon-copies of Star Wars and LOTR. Eragon is Luke with Aragorn\u2019s name, Arya is Arwen/Leia, Murtagh is Han, Galbatorix is the Emperor/Darth Vader, Morzan is Darth Vader, Brom is Obi-Wan, Nasuada is Eowyn, Ajihad is Theoden, the Twins are Wormtongue, Orik is Chewbacca, Oromis is Yoda, Roran is Leia, Katrina is Han Solo\u2026about the only character that could possibly be considered his own is Angela, but even she is supposedly based off his sister. That doesn\u2019t even include the Dwarves, Elves and Orcs (called Urgals) from Lord of the Rings. In the hands of a good author, this could be done decently, so that the characters pay homage to Star Wars and Lord of the Rings without being half-@ssed rip offs, but Paolini is far from a good author. Worse than the characters, which I could at least stand in Eragon (I\u2019ll admit, Brom was my favorite and it was shame when he died), the story is hideously, mind-numbingly boring. Absolutely nothing happens throughout the book! It\u2019s all a long, boring retelling of journeys: one of Eragon\u2019s and another of Roran\u2019s. Eragon is sent to Dagobah to learn the ways of the Jedi under the tutelage of Yoda, the Last Jedi. Oops, I meant Eragon is sent to Ellesmera to learn the ways of the Dragon Riders under the tutelage of Oromis, the actual last Dragon Rider. It's so easy to make that mistake, since not only did Paolini steal SW characters, but also stole the entire plot of The Empire Strikes Back . Now, I realize that Eragon's plot was pretty much identical to A New Hope . But I could at least ignore the similarities by yelling profanities at the offending sections or getting lost in the fast pace of the novel. Eldest doesn't even bother to disguise the plot, preferring to spend pages upon pages on nothing. It lingers too long in Farthen Dur, too long on the journey to Ellesmera, so that Eragon doesn't even reach it until around Chapter 27 (which might not sound like much since the book is a freakin' 77 chapter doorstopper, but when you are listening to it hour after agonising hour, it is forever ). So what happens in those 27 chapters? Well, if you guessed fighting battles, intense chase scenes, or standoffs with the bad guys, go to the corner and sit there and think about what you just did!! No, Paolini fills his \"epic\" fantasy with each agonizing step of the journey. I wouldn\u2019t be surprised if Paolini detailed each day of the journey. Every stop is given in excruciating detail. Every race Eragon meets gives him long, boring lectures about their culture, their language, their religion, their clothes\u2026anything and everything to pad this story out. Every trip down a river, every haul up a hill is recounted, every time they sent up camp...be prepared for a nap, folks! Even when we finally get to Ellesmera, the story doesn\u2019t pick up. Instead, we trudge through Eragon\u2019s thoughts about ants (THRILLS!), Oromis\u2019 mind-boggling lessons on morality and ethics (CHILLS!), and Paolini\u2019s barely concealed opinions on religion, veganism, and marriage (may I climb out the window SILLS?). No wonder my favorite part was where Vanna whips Eragon. That's the only scene where anything happens! The second \u201cstory\u201d is Roran\u2019s story of what happened in Carvahall. Wasn't that the guy who scooted off at the beginning of Eragon to try to make money to marry that chick? So...why is he here? Why was he ignored all through Eragon but now his story is important? Roran leads his people, Moses-like, out of Carvahall to the South to the safety of the Vardan. I have loads of insults for the stupidity of the townfolk, leaving their village at the whim of one man, to the clich\u00e9d motivational speech Roran gives, to yet another damsel-in-distress (women in these novels are just terrible, they can\u2019t keep themselves from being kidnapped for the life of them), to another horrible, awkward romance, to the complete misunderstanding of how the world works, but I really don\u2019t care enough about this part to dredge them up. Insert your own witticisms here. By the way, has anyone noticed that there is little explanation to why the Empire is bad? Okay, so we have the Raz\u2019ac killing the folks of Carvahall, but that is only because of Eragon/Roran, and only because the dragon egg was stolen from Galbatorix. Last time I checked, thieves were punishable by law. If someone had stolen something from Eragon, he darn well would have gotten a horse and rode off to beat that thief's @ss...why wouldn't the government do something similar? If given the mind, one could reason that the Vardan are the enemies, for stealing, for being terrorists, and for being traitors to the government (and with how corrupt the Council are, an odd bit of realism in this stereotypical fantasy, it\u2019s not a hard thought to wrap your head around). If you are going to make bad guys, you show them being bad guys. You show Galbatorix and Morzan killing people, oppressing people, stealing for no reason, burning down rows of pretty blue flowers, etc., not just tell the audience they are bad and expect us to root for Eragon and the Vardan. Now we get to the fun part: the writing style. Oh, God Almighty, the writing style. Paolini is very aware he\u2019s trying to write an epic, because it sounds just like an epic should. Well, a quick glance shows it sounding like an epic should. If you read with any modicum of attention, you'll see that it reads like the worst LOTR fanfiction on the internet. Too much time is spent on needless descriptions (Oh, yes, let\u2019s describe each of the Dwarves gods and goddesses!), padded wording, and clich\u00e9d phrases. Some of the worst passages I\u2019ve found include: \u201cSlippers flashing beneath her dress, like mice darting from a hole.\u201d WORST. DESCRIPTION. EVER. Mice now dart out of a hole, back into the hole, and out of the hole, all in quick rapid succession? Was this really the best way to describe...what is Paolini describing??? \u201cEragon surreptitiously watched the Elf, curious to what he looked like without his clothes.\u201d Uh, and why is Eragon hitting on Arya and pouting when he fails disastrously? \u201cEragon savored the epics as he might a well-cooked meal.\u201d Who said you couldn\u2019t eat what you read? \u201cAnxiety ran through his voice like a taut bow string.\u201d Run, Anxiety, run! Get away from the bad simile! \u201cgyrating walls of ebony water\u201d No, I would say \u201cpurple\u201d, as in \u201cpurple prose\u201d. And then, of course, as I\u2019ve briefly touched on earlier, Paolini breaks some of the author\u2019s Golden Rules. \u201cShow, don\u2019t tell\u201d. \u201cGood prose should be invisible\u201d. \u201cDon\u2019t lose the pacing by trying to describe your setting\u201d. \u201cThe word \u2018said\u2019 is your best friend in dialogue.\u201d And so on. And now, I get into the audiobook. Most of the time, I don\u2019t bother to comment, as the narrators do a good job at narrating. But I absolutely hated one thing about this narrator: his voices. They weren\u2019t bad, even if the women were nearly impossible to tell apart from the men, but the absolute low point was the dragons. For the dragons, the narrator growled in a low, deep, raspy voice. This wasn\u2019t bad for a short sentence here and there, but for long, long, long passages (which Paolini writes a lot of), it was so bad, I was very close to skipping over the section, just to stop listening to the horrible voice. If you are interested in reading a cross-over fan fiction of Star Wars and Lord of the Rings, I recommend you go to fan-fiction.net. If you want to read horrible characters, unending descriptions, bad romance, and a thin as plastic wrap plot stretched over 71 chapters that reads like Star Wars with characters and settings from Lord of the Rings, read Eldest. If you didn\u2019t like Eragon, Eldest will only make you madder. ...more I was half expecting Eldest to be an improvement for Paolini, but what I expect never seems to be what I get. Eldest was lengthy; too lengthy. What were easily 500 pages of adjective oriented action would have been fine at 30 pages tops. It seems as if Paolini is still aiming his novels towards the pre-teen to teen audience, something that paid off for him after making Eragon. It's a shame that strategy worked again. Besides the one or two exciting twists and turns, the plot did not impress. The I was half expecting Eldest to be an improvement for Paolini, but what I expect never seems to be what I get. Eldest was lengthy; too lengthy. What were easily 500 pages of adjective oriented action would have been fine at 30 pages tops. It seems as if Paolini is still aiming his novels towards the pre-teen to teen audience, something that paid off for him after making Eragon. It's a shame that strategy worked again. Besides the one or two exciting twists and turns, the plot did not impress. There are two words to sum it up: long, and predictable. It begins with a stretched and dry account of Eragon's journey to the elf capital of Ellesm\u00e9ra, on the way encountering various linear characters and scenarios. This was no doubt the worst part of the book, for not a trace of excitement surfaces for over a bulging 150 pages. These two pitfalls together create a novel twice as difficult to read, and twice as easy to give one star. ...more I thought the first half is a bit boring but then second half is a lot better than first half. I agree with one review in this book \"Will appeal to legions of readers who have been captivated by the Lord of the Rings trilogy.\" School Library Journal. Roran is one of my favourite characters. I try not to read sequels as they come out. With the exception of every Harry Potter book (yes, I attended three of the midnight release parties) and Breaking Dawn (which I bought two weeks after it was released), I wait until an entire trilogy, quartet or series are released in paperback before starting the first one. Like the Faerie Wars or the Derkholm books. I mean, I\u2019m a Tamora Pierce junkie, but I'm still waiting to start the Terrier series. (Note on paperback v. hardback \u2013 it\u2019s a prefere I try not to read sequels as they come out. With the exception of every Harry Potter book (yes, I attended three of the midnight release parties) and Breaking Dawn (which I bought two weeks after it was released), I wait until an entire trilogy, quartet or series are released in paperback before starting the first one. Like the Faerie Wars or the Derkholm books. I mean, I\u2019m a Tamora Pierce junkie, but I'm still waiting to start the Terrier series. (Note on paperback v. hardback \u2013 it\u2019s a preference thing. Yeah, hardbacks are more expensive, at first, but mostly they\u2019re too cumbersome and unwieldy. I love the way a paperback nestles in my hands, bending slightly to my touch.) Anyway. A series of events ensued which resulted in my storming out of the house and to Target, just to get away from the insanity that surrounds my toddlers. I For escapist fiction, my choices were Eldest by Christopher Paolini or The Subtle Knife by Philip Pullman. I\u2019ve read Eragon , but not The Golden Compass . Yeah, I bought Eldest . It went against my nature to do so, despite the fact that I bought it in paperback. But I figured that since the final book, Brisingr , was due within a few weeks (it was released today, September 20), I\u2019d go ahead and read Eldest , even if it meant I bought Brisingr as a hardback. And then DAMMIT if I didn\u2019t find out too late that Brisingr is NOT the last book in the series \u2013 that there\u2019s a fourth and final installment. I\u2019d read Eragon because I was keenly jealous of child-prodigy self-publisher Christopher Paolini. He began writing the book when he was 15, finished it when he was 19, and then self-published and marketed it before Knopf snatched it up. I was....ambivalent about Eragon . It was...okay. When they say that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, I don\u2019t think it was a blanket acceptance of plagiarism. By the time I read Eldest , I expected the familiar plots, the Middle Earth sounding names, the slightly stilted language, the Star-Wars-type rebellion. I even started making a list. Arya=Arwen Eragon=Aragorn Eragon=dragon (duh) Urgals=Orks And those are just the words that sound the same. (Ra\u2019zac=Nazgul, anyone?) Paolini has grown leaps and bounds as a writer, however. His dialogue, which has always been decent, really shines in Eldest. Further, he\u2019s successfully tackled the challenge of interweaving different story lines. His characterization has gotten much tighter, showing in the actions more than in too much description. The relationship between Eragon and Saphira continues to be endearing, showing Paolini's mature grasp of intimate friendship in a really delightful way. Eldest continues the tale of Eragon, country-boy-turned-Dragon-Rider, who has joined forces with the rebel band to overthrow the evil Darth Vader\u2026.er, I mean, King Galbatorix. In addition to Eragon\u2019s story, Paolini develops the story of Roran, Eragon\u2019s cousin. Roran, another country boy, defends the village when the Ra\u2019zac come looking for Eragon, and helps evacuate when it\u2019s clear that\u2019s the only choice left for the villagers. Their exodus story juxtaposes nicely with Eragon\u2019s journey to Ellesme\u2019ra to develop his magic under the tutelage of Obi-Wan Kenobi, er, Oromis. I hate to admit it, but I really, really enjoyed Eldest . While I\u2019m not going to any midnight release parties for Brisingr , I certainly will be buying it (in paperback. After the fourth book is released in paperback.) I love the Inheritance Cycle so far. It\u2019s enchanting; while familiar, it\u2019s escapism at its best. It\u2019s like the CW\u2019s new show, Privileged . I want to hate it, but I just can\u2019t. I mean, come on, Paolini was homeschooled. Every time I think of it a new geek joke springs to mind. (And I have the right to tell geek jokes, as I am one. And blonde jokes, as I am one \u2013 well, artificially, anyway) But, as someone pointed out to me, Paolini has a legitimate \u201crunnin\u2019-with-the-big-boys\u201d** contract. Complete with paycheck. And a pretty decent book in the process. Here\u2019s hoping Brisingr continues the trend. **and girls \u2013 my addition. ...more Reviewed on 26/07/2015 Actual Rating: 3.5 Stars Just a heads up to those who are really impatient; do not, I repeat, DO NOT ever read this book, or should I say this particular series. This apparent book has bloody 679 pages, and for those of you who hate books which are so painfully slow you could just rip them into shreds, please, run far away and never come back. Don\u2019t even think about hesitating; just run for your life . While reading Eldest, I had the most awe-inspiring major conflict/ dilemm Reviewed on 26/07/2015 Actual Rating: 3.5 Stars Just a heads up to those who are really impatient; do not, I repeat, DO NOT ever read this book, or should I say this particular series. This apparent book has bloody 679 pages, and for those of you who hate books which are so painfully slow you could just rip them into shreds, please, run far away and never come back. Don\u2019t even think about hesitating; just run for your life . While reading Eldest, I had the most awe-inspiring major conflict/ dilemma because this book is so detailed, like so very detailed. Christopher Paolini\u2019s imagination alone, can win a Nobel Prize. No, I\u2019m not even joking. The world he built in the book, took my very breath away, from the different kingdoms to the climax. And bad thing is, those were the only two things I liked in the book. First things first, Eragon is 16, am I right? Yet, he sounds like a freaking adult in his mid-thirties who have nothing to do in his life, except to dress as a 16 year old and fight a stupid evil King with a stupid name I can\u2019t even pronounce and won\u2019t ever try to, with the companionship of a what a female dragon who\u2019s actually considered an infant yet sounds like a grown dragon with at least a century over of experience. What the actual ____? And what made it worst was that this 16 year old hero, fell in love with a female elf, who\u2019s actually over 100 years old. This is absolutely disgusting, alright? Don\u2019t even think of giving me the \u2018But Edward Cullen was 104 years old when he fell in love with a 17 year old human\u2019 excuse. Edward had a good reason; Bella\u2019s scent was so intoxicating to him that he couldn\u2019t resist. Yet for this case, Eragon isn\u2019t a vampire. Miss \u2018100 years old\u2019, didn\u2019t have any intoxicating scent, there just isn\u2019t any reason for Eragon to fall head over heels for her. But I appreciate what the elf did; she pushed Eragon away. It\u2019s honestly a good thing she understood that this Shadeslayer\u2019s still a child. Well, not exactly a child , but compared to her, he certainly is one. All the other characters were developed pretty well; you gotta give a thumbs up to the author for that. T o sum it up, Eldest was a brilliant read, although not brilliant enough to make itself to 4 stars (cough cough you know what I\u2019m referring to) and another reason for the 3.5 stars; the whole process, the whole journey was painfully slow I dozed off three times. Yes, three bloody times, and everyone knows Kim isn\u2019t someone to doze off while reading books. With all that said more like ranted , I\u2019m definitely finishing the series as although slow in plot, there\u2019s some serious epic action coming up. I can feel them in my bones . ...more I liked this one better than Eragon. The plot really thickened! I started to get bored about halfway through, until Eragon was \"changed\" and Roran was in Teirm is where it got interesting. The last half of the book was better than the first. The first half felt so dark and hopeless, then finally you started to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Great plot twists, and very believable fantasy! May good fortune rule over you Peace live in your heart And the stars watch over you.\" This book was quite amazing. The plot was good, the story made me gasped with amazement. Beautifully written. Although I found some sentences were really descriptive and drag through pages and pages. I still don't like the elves somehow. They are too perfect. But Roran's story was quite amazing. And the title of the book - \"Eldest\" was really meaningful. Better than the first book. You can read a complete series review for the Inheritance Cycle here on my blog thatgirlbookworm Great sequel. Definitely preferred it to the first one! I am definitely enjoying this world and the amazing cast of characters! Book Challenge book #35 - A Book From Your Childhood Wonderful Series, Looking very forwward to getting the 4th book! I am working on reading Brisingr now and I am about 3 quarters of the way done, I cannot put it down once I start! It is excellent, Paolini made a wonderful, inticing book with twists that even I didnt see coming! Murtagh becoming a rider and siding with Galbatorix? Amazing, my jaw dropped when I read that! I am most definetly impressed with this wonderful work of genious. I don't understand how anyone could hate this series! It's Wonderful Series, Looking very forwward to getting the 4th book! I am working on reading Brisingr now and I am about 3 quarters of the way done, I cannot put it down once I start! It is excellent, Paolini made a wonderful, inticing book with twists that even I didnt see coming! Murtagh becoming a rider and siding with Galbatorix? Amazing, my jaw dropped when I read that! I am most definetly impressed with this wonderful work of genious. I don't understand how anyone could hate this series! It's simply marvelous, Even the comical parts like in eldest when Saphira gets drunk! When I read that I laughed so hard I nearly fell out of my seat! To put it simply, This book is a work of genious congratulations Paolini for creating something like this..I will even admit this..I am as addicted to eragon as most people are to twilight! ...more This is a strong continuation to Paolini's Inheritance series, and it isn't (unlike the second volumes of some series) just a time-marking exercise between the beginning and the conclusion; significant events happen here, which move the plot in major ways. All of the strengths of the first volume continue to be present here: brilliant, detailed world-building (we get to see much more of the society of the dwarves, and especially the elves), fully-realized characterization, attention to relations This is a strong continuation to Paolini's Inheritance series, and it isn't (unlike the second volumes of some series) just a time-marking exercise between the beginning and the conclusion; significant events happen here, which move the plot in major ways. All of the strengths of the first volume continue to be present here: brilliant, detailed world-building (we get to see much more of the society of the dwarves, and especially the elves), fully-realized characterization, attention to relationships and ethical issues, vivid action scenes, and high- quality prose. I particularly liked the fact that the Urgals are revealed here to be NOT simply vicious, degraded animals genetically incapable of decency; there's a really valuable lesson there about ethnic and other prejudices. The addition of another (exciting!) plot strand involving Roran and the Carvahall villagers, and the deft way that Paolini cuts back and forth between them, enhances the storyline. However, I did rate this book a star lower than the series opener. This was due to just one short section --a little over two pages, though it seems much longer when you read it, as I did, in short bits spread over several days!-- where the author sets up a lecture, using the elf Oromis as an authority figure to be his mouthpiece, for Atheistic Materialism 101. All writers reflect their worldview in their writing, especially if it's srongly held, and they're entitled to; but it's most effective, both in a didactic and a literary sense, when it's allowed to develop naturally in the events or symbolism of the story. A straightforward sermon, on the other hand, using hackneyed old chestnuts that have been bandied about (and rebutted) for centuries as if they were fresh revelations, and delivered in Oromis' cocksure, know-it-all style, complete with straw men and an interlocutor to pose half-hearted objections as set-ups, has about the same effects as the worst didactic passages in Neoclassical fiction (though Paolini spares us the ponderous Neoclassical diction). I think even many atheists would honestly be somewhat bored by it. :-) It is, though, brief --and won't stop me from going on the next book! ...more Okay, so most of what I said about Eragon still applies... the main change here seems to be that the author has reduced the amount of action and plot events, and replaced them with exposition. This isn't completely horrible, as it's somewhat well done, but having done it at all really just resulted in hundreds of pages where very little actually happens, while the author fleshes out the setting and history of the world through lessons with Oromis, casual conversations with Arya, informational mo Okay, so most of what I said about Eragon still applies... the main change here seems to be that the author has reduced the amount of action and plot events, and replaced them with exposition. This isn't completely horrible, as it's somewhat well done, but having done it at all really just resulted in hundreds of pages where very little actually happens, while the author fleshes out the setting and history of the world through lessons with Oromis, casual conversations with Arya, informational moments with Nasuada, etc. And really, that's what drags this book down, ultimately -- I just found myself longing for something to happen. An interwoven substory with Roran and the villagers of Carvahall helped with this a little, and actually provided most of the action for most of the book. Then at the very end, we finally get some sustained activity and a nice twisty revelation. But ultimately, I felt like the book could have been a lot shorter, and probably should have been. The exposition and world-fleshing could have been saved for a supplemental book, a \"Tales Of Alegaesia\" or something. And once again, I got the feeling that some entire scenes or events were added just to explain away some earlier contradiction or unclear element. Plus, even more so than in the first book, some of the writing obscured what was going on more than it elucidated -- there were various times I reread entire passages and still wasn't sure what exactly had happened. Again, I wonder about the editing here. Overall, less enjoyable than the first book, and with way too much exposition and too little action -- though that said, reading through the pages and pages of exposition was still somewhat interesting and enjoyable. ...more As previously noted I am a fan of this series. And yet at the same time I am a fan of literary masterpieces. How does a series that dips occasionally into overuse of fantasy cliche and borrows ideas from epic masterpieces break into my personal favourites shelf? Well read on and I shall explain. The answer is simple. Despite all the petty flaws in the writing, the borrowing of ideas and occasional overuse of cliche Christopher Paolini succeeds in creating a living breathing world that is in no wa As previously noted I am a fan of this series. And yet at the same time I am a fan of literary masterpieces. How does a series that dips occasionally into overuse of fantasy cliche and borrows ideas from epic masterpieces break into my personal favourites shelf? Well read on and I shall explain. The answer is simple. Despite all the petty flaws in the writing, the borrowing of ideas and occasional overuse of cliche Christopher Paolini succeeds in creating a living breathing world that is in no way shallow or childish. Its obvious through his writing that Paolini has a gift for storytelling and its this gift and his imagination that I appreciate within his series. But I must admit that Eldest is one of my least favourites of the series. And that is the problem when you have a series. One book that needs to be read for the story to make sense can turn out less impressive and ruin part of the overall narrative for you. Not that Eldest is bad. Its far from it. I just felt that despite Paolini's improving skill as a writer many of the elven scenes, and there were a lot of elven scenes were too weird for my tastes. They had elves modified with animal body parts to look beautiful - to me that's not beautiful. They had weird magical ceremonies. And the thing I disliked the most: the use of meditation. Personally I don't think emptying my mind and casting it out there is really going to do anything much but leave my mind open to be filled with anything. Also have you ever tried to calm your mind - you can't, it's impossible. To me the idea of meditation from a new age viewpoint is well... I don't see it as a positive thing that needed to be in the book. It was too alien to me. ...more 4,9 / 5 eu estou a poupar as 5 estrelas para o pr\u00f3ximo volume Okay ent\u00e3o eu adivinhei algumas coisas que aconteceram e n\u00e3o vou abandonar as minhas teorias porque tenho a certeza de que elas est\u00e3o certas... Este livro \u00e9 um pouco mais lento que o primeiro mas continua a ter imensos momentos de risos, dor e pena. O mundo que o autor criou \u00e9 a melhor coisa de sempre e omd continuo a amar ainda mais o Eragon e a Saphira!! do g\u00e9nero coisas fofaaas ^^ O final foi maravilhosooo! s\u00f3 quero continuar a ler!!", "Title": "Eldest"},
