{"Comments": "Okay, I\u2019m totally going to ruin this book for you--- major spoiler alert coming up, folks. pssst\u2026 All the Presidents mentioned in the book, DIE . I know,<---M> right? You\u2019re saying \u2018Aww</---M>, cheese and rice! Kim! What\u2019s the point in reading this book then?' Well, lemme tell you\u2026. This book has been quite an educational journey for me. In both that, I\u2019ve learned all this great stuff about the assassinations of Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley, but also in that I\u2019ve learned that people think I\u2019m a freak. I\u2019ve been Okay, I\u2019m totally going to ruin this book for you--- major spoiler alert coming up, folks. pssst\u2026 All the Presidents mentioned in the book, DIE . I know, right? You\u2019re saying \u2018Aww, cheese and rice! Kim! What\u2019s the point in reading this book then?' Well, lemme tell you\u2026. This book has been quite an educational journey for me. In both that, I\u2019ve learned all this great stuff about the assassinations of Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley, but also in that I\u2019ve learned that people think I\u2019m a freak. I\u2019ve been carrying this around for the last few weeks, trying to read a page or two on the Shuttle between work campuses or while I scarf down my dressing free rabbit food\u2026 and of course people ask that dreadful question: \u2018What are you reading?\u2019 and of course I enthusiastically show them the cover and say \u2018OMG! (<---B>okay, I actually say \u2018Oh My God!\u2019</---B>) it\u2019s this great book about this woman who takes this pilgrimage to the sites of the assassinations of three presidents and the homes of their assassins!\u2019 and then I get the look . You know the one, right? The \u2018how come I know you?\u2019 look or the \u2018You are not what I thought you were\u2019 look and I\u2019m thinking, sometimes to myself and sometimes aloud \u2018What did you expect of me? Am I really that soccer mom-ish that I wouldn\u2019t be interested that Guiteau was involved in a sex cult in Upstate NY (that would later go on to design the gravy boat I inherited from my grandmother) but got so frustrated that none of the young girls would sleep with him that he later went and shot President Garfield? (okay, not really, but it\u2019s out there). Am I so that boring that you wouldn\u2019t think that I would find that absofuckinglutely fascinating?\u2019 and then I hmpfh off and continue reading my book with a piece of sprout daintily sitting on my cleavage.<---F> It\u2019s all good</---F>. Then I get depressed that this woman is my age (okay, it\u2019s a little better that she\u2019s 11 months and six days older than me, but not by much) and that she\u2019s done so much and can still readily admit that she loves Peter Gallagher\u2019s eyebrows (umm..who doesn\u2019t?)and that the most violent thing that she\u2019s done is shove a guy who spilled a beer on her at a Sleater-Kinney concert. I want to be her BFF. (But, I want her to take voice lessons first because I would seriously rip her voice box out if I had to actually listen to her speak) Other things that I Love About This Book --Her obsessions with all historical plaques. Because who doesn\u2019t slow down when they see one of those signs on the side of the road and go \u2018ooh! Was there some sort of carnage committed here? Did someone important die?\u2019 One of my jobs in college was working at one of those souvenier-y type carts in Boston and for a summer, we were set up right by the Boston Massacre site. I loved watching tourists come and gawk at this. (they had a neat red line painted on the ground to lead them around to all things historical) I can see Sarah (yep, first name basis with her, so what?) reading from her copy of The Townshend Acts. --Her description of Emma Goldman (Or should I say Emma Goldman\u2019s description) losing her virginity and I quote: \u201dFor Example, in one breathtaking paragraph she is (I think) losing her virginity to Berkman (she had been married but to an impotent husband); meanwhile, what\u2019s going through her head is the question, \u201cCan idealists be cruel?\u201d It\u2019s thrilling, even though I did want to reach into the page and pat her head, breaking it to her that, Oh my dear, idealists are the cruelest monsters of them all.\u201d --Her admission that if she could, she would go back into history and rub out her great great grandfather who had joined up with Quantrill\u2019s Bushwackers and was involved in the Lawrence Massacre of 1863 where at least 182 men and boys were killed. (read about it) --The fact that I cried after reading her walk around the National Mall. --And finally, that Sarah has made me drop everything to run to Google many, many times. Then.. ahh.. my poor husband, who at first gave me the stink eye because I was ranting and raving about how great it is that an author can put this historical crap into a book that I would actually read and enjoy and learn from while he stares at the Dos Passos and Gore Vidal books that I\u2019ve hidden so inconspicuously under the coffee table all the while saying \u2018I\u2019ll get to it, honest!\u2019. And now that he\u2019s also interested in reading it well, since I started talking about how she compares McKinley\u2019s dealings with the Spanish American War and Bush\u2019s dealings with Operation Iraqi Oil, I take every stoplight opportunity to tell him about the part that I just read involving how cute she and scientist who works at the Funeral Museum find John Wilkes Booth and the conversation that they have about him. I\u2019m sorry, honey. I\u2019ll shut up now, but let me just tell you this ONE more thing, okay?\u2019 ...more A reminiscence: Years ago, I persuaded/forced my then-girlfriend to take a trip with me to the Little Big Horn battlefield near Hardin, Montana. It was at the Little Big Horn that Lt. Col. George Custer came to grief, forever making his name a synonym for \"bad decision.\" It was quite a trek to make in a single weekend: Omaha to Montana. So we got to the battlefield after 20 straight hours of driving; slept outside the Ranger station waiting for it to open; then took in the battlefield, unwashed A reminiscence: Years ago, I persuaded/forced my then-girlfriend to take a trip with me to the Little Big Horn battlefield near Hardin, Montana. It was at the Little Big Horn that Lt. Col. George Custer came to grief, forever making his name a synonym for \"bad decision.\" It was quite a trek to make in a single weekend: Omaha to Montana. So we got to the battlefield after 20 straight hours of driving; slept outside the Ranger station waiting for it to open; then took in the battlefield, unwashed and unshaven and without even a cup of coffee. I was giddy (with exhaustion? with historical glee?), she was...patient (later, after she broke my heart, she swore this wasn't the reason she left, though I'm not sure I believed her, then or now). At one point, I drove up to Reno Hill. It was empty. As I was (and am) writing a novel about America's westward expansion from 1854 to 1890, I had certain items with me: two cameras, a couple books, a notebook and pen, binoculars. I got out of the car with my non-digital camera and took a walk along Reno's line of defense. Since no one was around, I broke a rule or two and gingerly lowered myself into one of the rifle pits that had been dug 129 years earlier. I wrote down my impressions: what I could see; what the grass felt like against my skin; how hot it must have been. Then I went back to the car to get my digital camera. I checked on my girlfriend, asking, as though she were a dog, if she had enough air in the car. Then I took my camera back to the old rifle pit to take a series of pictures forming a 360 degree view from the hill. It was then I noticed that I had dangerously few pictures remaining. This was odd, since I hadn't used the camera at all. I started going through my pictures. It was one self-portrait after another, each taken by my girlfriend as she sat waiting in the passenger seat of my car. I guess my passion wasn't as infectious as my [insert STD joke here:]. The point of this story? Sara Vowell is the woman I should have taken on this trip. <+++>Assassination Vacation</+++> is meant for those people (I include myself here) who do things like drive overnight from Omaha to Montana in order to look at a battlefield, or who call the National Park Service while driving the backroads of Wyoming looking for the Grattan Massacre monument, which is located in Farmer McDonald's corn field, or who can't pass by a historical marker without pulling the car over and hopping out with a camera. The skeleton on which this book rests is the assassinations of Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley. Really, though, it's sort of a romp, where history, pop culture, and current events elide. Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley, along with their respective assassins, Booth, Guiteau, and Czolgosz, are simply the starting point. She visits the places connected with their lives and deaths, which are often nothing more than a plaque or a roadside sign. Often, the places are only tenuously connected, but that's part of the fun. The book is written with good-natured humor (and a little angry liberalism thrown in for good measure). I noticed in her acknowledgments that she thanks, among others, Dave Eggers and David Sedaris (I am envious of her life; I mean, look at all awesome people she must chill with on a daily basis. Ira Glass! Lucky!) Not to be whatever, but Vowell is not as great a writer as her buds. She doesn't have the stratospheric talent of Eggers, or the subtle craftsmanship of Sedaris (which is not really a knock, when you think about it). When I read this book, it was more like reading a great blog, in which she introduces the many varied characters in her own life while taking this pseudo-journey among the ghosts of dead presidents. I didn't laugh out loud but once, but I really had a good reading experience. Vowell totally seems like an awesome traveling companion. A person who has facts and stories for every place you go. I've been accused of this, so it's nice to know there are others in the world who respect a good factoid (come to Omaha, and I'll tell you the trivia behind our street names, which are named after generals of the Frontier Army...Grenville Dodge, who surveyed for the railroad; William Harney, who beat a slave to death...etc.) Kerouac famously wrote that the only people for him were the mad ones; the only people for me are the curious ones. Vowell's curiosity is infectious. She wanders far and wide, read voraciously, and along the way meets people as impassioned as she is (I especially enjoy her section on Dr. Samuel Mudd, where her own intense dislike for the possibly-treacherous medicine man butts up against the Mudd family's centuries-long quest to rehabilitate their ancestor's good name...and make a quick buck on the side). Vowell's style is breezy and digressive. Reading it was like listening to a chatty companion sitting next to you in a car or train. She comes across as mostly-genuine, though once in awhile, I found myself thinking she's a little too precious. I mean, does she really wear Bela Lugosi hair clips? Is anyone that awesome? The only (minor) quibble I have is the lack of any footnotes or bibliography. Obviously, this is not a work of scholarship. Yet Vowell tosses off hundreds upon thousands of factual nuggets. It would be nice to know, before I start repeating them at cocktail parties, that she didn't get them off of Wikipedia. Heck, I don't even care about the footnotes (P.S. I LOVE footnotes), just tell me what sources you consulted. At one point, she mentions Ackerman's Dark Horse , which I have on my Amazon wish list, but that's about it. For a book written by a historically curious person, which is sure to spark the curiosity of many others, it would've been a helpful service to list the authors and works that guided her. The lasting thing from this book is its empathy. I love history. I think more than anything, good history teaches us what it means to be human. For instance, I was looking for a good Lincoln book and was struck by a reader comment saying, in effect, that the author was too easy on Mary Todd Lincoln, who the commenter believed was crazier than a port-o-potty rat. I couldn't believe what I'd read. Sometimes, I guess, the inundation of facts obscures something important: that these were people first, and trivia second. I mean, Mary Todd lost three of her four children; her husband was shot in the head while she held in his hand. If she went crazy after all this, well, buddy, that's craziness she earned. I think we view history too much in the abstract; as a bas relief in a museum. Imagine yourself in her place. Imagine your soul-mate murdered next to you while you're in the theater watching the latest low point in Seann William Scott's career. The folks in the history books, the ones staring at you from a distant netherworld called the Past, were - and this is verificable - real people. From their trials, we can learn. As your mother might have said, in times like these, remember, there have always been times like these. History is at its most powerful when it shows us how we are all connected by certain immutable traits: how we are born; how we laugh; how we hurt; how we fall in love; how we suffer; how we die. Even the greatest, the richest, the most powerful humans who have ever walked this earth are brought down to the level of the lowliest peasant by these things. (I call this the Everybody Poops School of History - it will eventually be worked in my PhD thesis). That's sort of the evolving understanding Vowell came to, especially when tracing the deaths of Garfield and McKinley. These are men who, especially in Garfield's case, have been lost to history. Yet we know them, intimately, by sharing their final moments. They become, at the end, finally, human. ...more Somehow I listened to this entire audiobook in two days. I felt burned by politics and somehow in my head this translated to - more politics! I thought reading about assassinations might be... refreshing. Enter <---A>Sarah Vowell</---A> with her strange voice, and a host of stories of informational plaques that she visited around the country, and other monuments to assassination attempts. There is a lot on Lincoln, but I still learned some tidbits. Did you know it is likely President Lincoln was laughing whe Somehow I listened to this entire audiobook in two days. I felt burned by politics and somehow in my head this translated to - more politics! I thought reading about assassinations might be... refreshing. Enter Sarah Vowell with her strange voice, and a host of stories of informational plaques that she visited around the country, and other monuments to assassination attempts. There is a lot on Lincoln, but I still learned some tidbits. Did you know it is likely President Lincoln was laughing when he was shot? The last chapter had an interesting intersection with other books I've read, such as The Most Dangerous Book: The Battle for James Joyce's Ulysses , because it focused in on Emma Goldman, the delightful anarchist who was greatly feared in her time. Not a president, but definitely political, and assassination attempts going both ways. This is well researched, she makes obscurity interesting, and it was a nice diversion from the present day. My only disappointment with the audiobook is that the cover makes it seem like the other voices will have prominent roles, but they are only very occasionally brought in to read a quotation. I would have loved to hear less Vowell and more Conan O'Brien, Stephen King, and Jon Stewart. That said her voice is definitely distinct. ...more This is a book my wife and I listened to as we drive to doctor appointments, visited children, etc., so it took us a while to get through it completely. That is not to denigrate the book, which is wonderfully entertaining and educational. Ben (GR) and I have exchanged emails recently about whether listening to an audiobook can be considered \"reading.\" This is a case where I think the book is actually better listened to since it's read by the author who has such a gravely and droll way of reading This is a book my wife and I listened to as we drive to doctor appointments, visited children, etc., so it took us a while to get through it completely. That is not to denigrate the book, which is wonderfully entertaining and educational. Ben (GR) and I have exchanged emails recently about whether listening to an audiobook can be considered \"reading.\" This is a case where I think the book is actually better listened to since it's read by the author who has such a gravely and droll way of reading. It's delightful. Vowell's description of staying in a bed and breakfast is priceless. It mirrors a stay my wife and I had where the other couple at breakfast bragged about the shooting club and contests at her son's school. Good liberals that we are, my wife asked who paid for all of that? \"Why, the NRA, of course,\" was the reply. We couldn't wait to stuff down the sausages and get the hell out of there. Next bed and breakfast we go to I intend to get a certified letter attesting to the political affiliation of all the guests. Then, of course, there's always Super-8 as an alternative. Lots of fascinating detail. I had no idea that the Virginia motto, sic semper tyrannis was yelled by John Wilkes Booth as he leeaped on to the stage after shooting Lincoln and that motto was worn on T-shirts by supporters of Timothy McVeigh along with assorted Confederate flags and symbols. One learns a great deal too. For example, Dr. Samuel Mudd (a distant relative of Roger Mudd, the broadcaster) was convicted of being one of the conspirators who assassinated Lincoln. Vowell delves deeply and fascinatingly into the sequence of events, remarks on his heroic behavior during the malaria epidemic at the Fort (one of the largest ever built, we learn, after a hysterical, stomach-heaving boat journey) on the Dry Tortugas including efforts by his grandson to completely clear his name. I cannot recommend this book enough - but listen to it. ...more Ugh! Sarah Vowell, you annoy the hell out of me, on This American Life and in this book. I always think, \"that would be totally funny if that happened to me\" but her writing is never sufficient enough to translate it to the page. She's just not a good storyteller--she wants to be David Sedaris but she can't seem to pull it off. I also can't stand when people go on about how so-called nerdy they are when you know they secretly relish being weird and quirky. I have a friend that confuses her with Ugh! Sarah Vowell, you annoy the hell out of me, on This American Life and in this book. I always think, \"that would be totally funny if that happened to me\" but her writing is never sufficient enough to translate it to the page. She's just not a good storyteller--she wants to be David Sedaris but she can't seem to pull it off. I also can't stand when people go on about how so-called nerdy they are when you know they secretly relish being weird and quirky. I have a friend that confuses her with Starley Kine on This American Life because they both have funny voices but Starley Kine is a wonderful and moving storyteller. I love the idea of fun, readable history--this was clunky, self-indulgent and boring. ...more Sarah Vowell has written a hilarious take on heritage tourism, visiting many of the sites related to our poor assassinated presidents. She manages to sneak in a lot of history alongside her wry, sly, sarcastic witticisms, as well as her biting commentary on our current administration, which was great fun to read. But she is also clearly very full of herself, and that gets in the way of the story. Several times in the book, she would stop the \"action\" to write something along the lines of, \"I'm j Sarah Vowell has written a hilarious take on heritage tourism, visiting many of the sites related to our poor assassinated presidents. She manages to sneak in a lot of history alongside her wry, sly, sarcastic witticisms, as well as her biting commentary on our current administration, which was great fun to read. But she is also clearly very full of herself, and that gets in the way of the story. Several times in the book, she would stop the \"action\" to write something along the lines of, \"I'm just so crazy/wacky/offbeat/curious that I will drag my unwitting friends to this off-the-wall/remote/disturbing/strange/arcane historic site.\" As in, aren't I unique? Aren't I cool? As someone who's gone through an academic program in historic preservation, I've met tons of people who are fascinated by all manner of historic places, sites, and objects--and they don't need to proclaim their coolness on a billboard or in a book. All in all, this is a fun read, but not one that will stick with you very long. ...more There\u2019s something about the way Sarah Vowell writes about history that brings it to life for me. Probably because there\u2019s something about the way that Sarah Vowell writes about people, and history is made of people. It often doesn\u2019t feel that way. (Ironically, there\u2019s a section in here where she tells a story about a time where she ended up yelling at some guy in a supermarket about how the only time it would be interesting to live through history would be if you were there when they discovered There\u2019s something about the way Sarah Vowell writes about history that brings it to life for me. Probably because there\u2019s something about the way that Sarah Vowell writes about people, and history is made of people. It often doesn\u2019t feel that way. (Ironically, there\u2019s a section in here where she tells a story about a time where she ended up yelling at some guy in a supermarket about how the only time it would be interesting to live through history would be if you were there when they discovered the polio vaccine, otherwise it\u2019s all war and natural disasters and the time in between. She manages to be funny while writing this.) I\u2019ve actually wanted to read <+++>Assassination Vacation</+++> for about eleven years now, since it was published, when a friend of mine wrote a glowing review of it in our college newspaper, and then almost immediately The Incredibles came out (Sarah Vowell voices Violet in that movie). I was like, who is this Sarah Vowell person who goes on weird assassination vacations and then voices teenage superheroes?? But I kept getting distracted, and the height of my desire to read it coincided with the two years I didn\u2019t have a car and lived on campus, and thus did not have easy access to the public library and very little money to spend on books. So wah wah long story, didn\u2019t read it for forever, but now I have. The cheekily ingenious conceit behind this book is that Vowell embarks on a sort of historical tourism of the assassinations of Presidents Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley. This involves visiting their graves, the sites of their demises, important locations in their lives, and all of the same for their assassins, whom Vowell finds just as interesting in parts as their targets. She then writes about not only the experience of visiting those places (including the people she encounters there), but also the history and context of the events and the sites themselves. If you\u2019ve never read a Sarah Vowell book before, this turns out to be surprisingly fun. If you have, well, you pretty much know what to expect. Vowell gets REALLY enthusiastic about stuff that most people don\u2019t give two shits about, and her enthusiasm is catching. I\u2019m not saying I\u2019m suddenly all about dead presidents, but while I was reading the book, it was interesting and fun. Vowell goes deep in her love of history, like a true nerd of whatever you\u2019re nerdy about, and the book is all the better for it. I was also surprised by the content of the book. I fully expected to love the <---C>Abraham Lincoln</---C> section the most, but since I already know so much about the guy, Vowell and her observations were really the main draw there. I knew almost nothing about Garfield or McKinley going in to this book, so I actually enjoyed those sections a little more. (And I now have actual opinions about several presidents and overlooked historical figures! Namely, Garfield was actually kind of a cool guy, McKinley was an asshole, and Teddy Roosevelt was a baller. Don\u2019t even get me started on John Wilkes Booth\u2019s brother, Edwin. That guy was awesome!) Anyway, you guys should read this book if you like history, especially if you like your history focused on the more obscure human details, with a side of wry, humorous observations. Also if you want to read about how the Oneida tableware and cutlery company was founded by a sex cult from upstate New York. ...more Abraham Lincoln. James Garfield. William McKinley. What do these three men have in common? They were all Presidents of The United States of America. And they were all assassinated. Not everyone would think to create a road-trip out of the deaths of these men, but Sarah Vowell did. She visits museums commemorating these sad events, she searches out graves, historical plaques, and former homes. I was not at all certain I would enjoy reading this book, to tell the truth. For one thing, my mother wan Abraham Lincoln. James Garfield. William McKinley. What do these three men have in common? They were all Presidents of The United States of America. And they were all assassinated. Not everyone would think to create a road-trip out of the deaths of these men, but Sarah Vowell did. She visits museums commemorating these sad events, she searches out graves, historical plaques, and former homes. I was not at all certain I would enjoy reading this book, to tell the truth. For one thing, my mother wanted me to read it. That is not always a good thing. But we had both read Vowell's The Wordy Shipmates a couple of years ago, and when she saw this title in her favorite bookseller's catalog, she ordered it, read it, and gave it to me. I remembered Vowell as being a little too smart-alecky for my taste in Shipmates, even though I did learn a lot about the Puritans that I never imagined. In Vacation, her tone is much less stridently sassy, and for me much easier to get along with. And once again I learned a lot about the history I was supposed ot have learned in school, but never heard about. Lincoln, yes. But Garfield and McKinley? Nary a word that I can recall. Vowell covers a lot of information here, and presents it in a compelling way that kept me picking up the book and not wanting to put it down. I hope that someday she writes about the years 2017 to 2020. I would love to see what she does with that topic. While I'm waiting for that book to come along, I will look for other titles by Vowell and see what else my history teachers skipped. ...more William Dean Howells once described seeing the [casts of Lincoln's] hands at a party in a New York home. One partygoer in particular seemed drawn to them. He picked them up, held the hands in his own, and asked the host to whom they belonged. And when he heard that they were the hands of Abraham Lincoln, the man, Edwin Booth [brother of John Wilkes], silently placed them back upon the shelf. ( Assassination Vacation , p. 116) Abraham Lincoln's son Robert Todd was present at three separate President William Dean Howells once described seeing the [casts of Lincoln's] hands at a party in a New York home. One partygoer in particular seemed drawn to them. He picked them up, held the hands in his own, and asked the host to whom they belonged. And when he heard that they were the hands of Abraham Lincoln, the man, Edwin Booth [brother of John Wilkes], silently placed them back upon the shelf. ( Assassination Vacation , p. 116) Abraham Lincoln's son Robert Todd was present at three separate Presidential assassinations--his father's, James Garfield's, and William McKinley's. John Wilkes Booth's brother Edwin once saved Robert Todd's life during the Civil War. Ford's Theatre partly collapsed in on June 9, 1893, during Edwin's funeral. Charles Guiteau, James Garfield's assassin, hounded the president for a job for several weeks before shooting him. There are a lot of weird and spooky coincidences surrounding the Lincoln and Kennedy assassinations. And more! Sarah Vowell is incredibly fascinated with all of the fascinating history behind the violent (and fascinating?) deaths of four assassinated US Presidents, and she wants you to be fascinated too. With her fascination, mostly. Because she is really, really fascinated. And so on. But I'm a bit conflicted here. On one hand, Sarah Vowell's Sarah Vowell-y Road Trip Through Bits Of American History Sarah Vowell Finds Fascinating is, er, kind of annoying. On the other hand, John F. Kennedy was assassinated on my dad's birthday (he was two) and Robert F. Kennedy was shot on my mom's birthday (she was twelve), and if Sarah Vowell knew those two (fascinating!) facts, I bet she would totally want to be my friend. And I would probably want to be her friend too. So there's that. ...more I picked this book up as a recommendation from Strand in Manhattan. Not knowing what to expect, I was all at once pleasantly surprised and supremely disappointed. To me, the biggest thing that jumps out about this author's style is that she is the Chuck Klosterman of political history. The plot follows the author through road trips and vacations to various spots of historical significance and her stories are advanced through a combination of her interactions with the everyday people there and he I picked this book up as a recommendation from Strand in Manhattan. Not knowing what to expect, I was all at once pleasantly surprised and supremely disappointed. To me, the biggest thing that jumps out about this author's style is that she is the Chuck Klosterman of political history. The plot follows the author through road trips and vacations to various spots of historical significance and her stories are advanced through a combination of her interactions with the everyday people there and her own historical narrative. This is very similar to \"Killing Yourself to Live\", except rather than introspective tangents on the author's interpersonal relationships (which allow the reader to get closer to and relate to the author) she goes off on pointless political tangents that run completely counter to the overall tone of the book. The author does her best writing when she stays primarily in the realm of tongue in cheek chasing of useless trivia. Being a history buff (and big Lincoln fan), it was very interesting to read about some of the circumstances surrounding these events. However, every couple dozen pages, she does a very poor job of relating these past events to current ones. The change from an irreverent writing style to a very serious political (and overtly far left-wing) rant is a jarring one for the reader. Overall, this book's biggest problem is its lack of identity. The author is never really sure if she wants to be a fun lark through the pages of history, or a cautionary tale of learning from our past mistakes. Holding witty banter with tour guides on the same page as trying to determine the groundwork of today's controversial (and in her opinion, evil) Republican Party is just a bit too much for me. ...more I feel like Vowell and I would do great on a road trip together. We might never make it to our actual destination because we would be constantly pulling over to read the history signs that no one else I know will let me pull over to read, and I feel that we would be easily side tracked by historical detour, but man, we would learn a lot. Then again, her voice on the audiobook REALLY set me on edge, and if she sounds like that in person I might have to bail. Still, voice aside, I like the crazy, I feel like Vowell and I would do great on a road trip together. We might never make it to our actual destination because we would be constantly pulling over to read the history signs that no one else I know will let me pull over to read, and I feel that we would be easily side tracked by historical detour, but man, we would learn a lot. Then again, her voice on the audiobook REALLY set me on edge, and if she sounds like that in person I might have to bail. Still, voice aside, I like the crazy, swirly way she tells history. History IS crazy, it\u2019s like reading this really long cross-over novel series, and sometimes characters from other stories you read wander into the scene, and you get all excited that you NOTICED that, and feel like you are giving a secret nod to the author being like, I see what you did there, I see who that character is\u2026. Only it\u2019s all real, and you realize that history is super connected to everything, every single thing is interrelated. Sure, that\u2019s kind of a \u201cduh\u201d statement, but it\u2019s not how we teach history in schools where we parse it out in unconnected factoids labeled \u201cAmerican history, Pre-Reconstruction\u201d and \u201cEurope:1870-1935\u201d, and it\u2019s hard to convey in books because you have limited space, and you are trying to teach the history of the whole world, really, by writing about any one thing. It makes it complicated. But I LOVE that complication, its why almost all of my nonfiction books are history books, I revel in the intricacy that I will never be able to fathom, and I think Vowell is that type of person too. That love and passion is present in her somewhat erratic way of trying to tell the story of the Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley assassinations, and it made it interesting and easy to devour. Still, I am left at a three-star rating for this particular book, though I certainly intend to continue on with her other books later. Why? Mostly because she spent so much time on Lincoln, to the point that McKinley and Garfield nearly felt like an afterthought. Sure, it\u2019s *LINCOLN* but the book is not really breaking any new ground there, except for maybe enthusiasm in history. Garfield and McKinley, though not as iconic, were still presidential assassinations, and that\u2019s huge, and combined I\u2019m not sure their story quite takes up half of the book. I would have liked to see more of their stories, and a little bit more balance. The second reason is her comparison to the modern day Iraq War and Bush Administration. I am not saying that she doesn\u2019t have a point; it\u2019s that she doesn\u2019t form an argument with merit. Mostly she takes potshots, and I am disappointed because, if she hadn\u2019t spent so much time on Lincoln, SHE COULD HAVE DONE SO MUCH MORE. She could have really flushed out the comparison between Americans expansionism in the Pacific Islands to that Iraq, and it could have really added something to the book. Instead, she turns it into one-liners, that seem glib in the face of such dark, historical repetition. So there ya have it. This book was fun and interesting, and I learned a bit. I will read her other works, but probably not listen to them on audio. It wet my appetite to know more about the underappreciated Garfield and McKinley, and rounded out my knowledge on the Lincoln assassination. ...more Sarah Vowell, will you marry me? I liked The Partly Cloud Patriot, but I loved Assassination Vacation. Vowell's pilgrimage to sites associated with the assassinations of Presidents Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley struck so many cords with me it is hard to know where to begin. First, I learned a ton. I knew a lot of what she mentioned about the Lincoln assassination (though by no means all of it), but really, does anybody know much about Garfield or McKinley? I knew McKinley's assassin was somehow Sarah Vowell, will you marry me? I liked The Partly Cloud Patriot, but I loved Assassination Vacation. Vowell's pilgrimage to sites associated with the assassinations of Presidents Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley struck so many cords with me it is hard to know where to begin. First, I learned a ton. I knew a lot of what she mentioned about the Lincoln assassination (though by no means all of it), but really, does anybody know much about Garfield or McKinley? I knew McKinley's assassin was somehow associated with Emma Goldman, but that was about it. So the book is worth reading (or, in my case, listening to, because Vowell's story-telling style lends itself so well to audio book) just for the information it contains. But it's so much more than that. It's also funny, and it's funny in a dorky way that I just adore. Vowell's ability to embrace her inner civics geek is commendable, especially for someone who was once a rock journalist. The fact that she is giddily interested in presidential assassinations and all manner of morbid and grotesque history is impressive, but what is more impressive is that she relishes this interest and is unapologetic about it. The story she tells connecting her Oneida tea pot to the Oneida cult/\"intentional community\" in upstate New York and then to Garfield's assassin is not only fascinating, it also seriously makes me want to marry her. Or at least be her best friend forever. I mean, who wouldn't love someone who could come out with that while pouring you a cup of tea? It's not Vowell's relentless and uber-cute dorkiness that gets me the most, though, it's her honest devotion to and nearly spiritual belief in U.S. history, government, and myth. More than anything, the book made me want to take a trip to Washington D.C., to see if I'm as mesmerized by the Lincoln monument as Vowell is, to move through the Smithsonian at a snail's pace like I'm sure she does. As someone with a degree in American history and a lifelong interest in it's minutiae, I'm hardly a tough audience, but Vowell got me more excited about it than I have been in years, and excited about a whole different aspect of it (i.e. presidential history, which I've never cared for at all). Like Utah Phillips, her words convince you that the past is important, that it means something, and that it ought to be considered, honored, respected, and made fun of. I'm into that. ...more I love the author\u2019s irreverence, wit, and humorous outlook. I find her hilarious when she\u2019s speaking, such as when I\u2019ve seen her on Jon Stewart\u2019s The Daily Show. This book is funny, but her writing is not nearly as hilarious as she is when speaking. I think this book would be great as an audio book if read by the author. Even her voice and inflections are funny, and while I laugh out loud when listening to her, including when she talked about this book, reading this book elicited some smiles fro I love the author\u2019s irreverence, wit, and humorous outlook. I find her hilarious when she\u2019s speaking, such as when I\u2019ve seen her on Jon Stewart\u2019s The Daily Show. This book is funny, but her writing is not nearly as hilarious as she is when speaking. I think this book would be great as an audio book if read by the author. Even her voice and inflections are funny, and while I laugh out loud when listening to her, including when she talked about this book, reading this book elicited some smiles from me, but that\u2019s about it. Of course, it\u2019s only because of the author that I\u2019d expected a book about Presidential assassinations would make me laugh. I was disappointed that only 3 Presidents (Lincoln, Garfield, McKinley) were the focus here, and that they are all Republicans, although there are extremely brief mentions of JFK, RFK, and Martin Luther King, Jr., Gandhi, and a bit more than them about Teddy Roosevelt. And I loved that she revisited the Lincoln-Kennedy coincidence list; I hadn\u2019t thought about it for many years. There were some very amusing and educational portions, and for me it got better and better as I went along. I went from being disappointed to really enjoying the reading experience. I particularly enjoyed the more personal material, particularly the part about the author\u2019s young nephew. I can see why she likes as well as loves him. I got a huge kick out of Garfield\u2019s love of reading; he\u2019s a president about which I\u2019d known very little, and I\u2019d known the most about Lincoln and very, very little about the other two, but from this book I learned a lot about all three. Now, I wasn\u2019t reading for school, but for pleasure, and there were so many juicy tidbits that I\u2019m afraid in very short order I will forget most of the information. This is history spiced up, but I\u2019ve always enjoyed history and don\u2019t need it to be made more palatable. However, I did really appreciate the information that isn\u2019t typically included in history books, and even in many biography books So, I did end up enjoying this, but she\u2019s still much funnier in person. 3 \u00bd stars I rounded up because of this book\u2019s ingenuity. ...more The only high school class I've ever fallen asleep in was American History. I've long suspected that this had a lot more to do with the quality of the teacher than the subject itself. My suspicions were confirmed by reading this book - if Sarah Vowell had been my teacher, I would have been WIDE awake. Ms. Vowell is, to be sure, something of an unusual person. I don't know a lot of folks who have much of an interest the subject of presidential assassination, let alone in the assassinations of such The only high school class I've ever fallen asleep in was American History. I've long suspected that this had a lot more to do with the quality of the teacher than the subject itself. My suspicions were confirmed by reading this book - if Sarah Vowell had been my teacher, I would have been WIDE awake. Ms. Vowell is, to be sure, something of an unusual person. I don't know a lot of folks who have much of an interest the subject of presidential assassination, let alone in the assassinations of such unfamiliar dead presidents as Garfield and McKinley. But Ms. Vowell has, for whatever reason, something of an obsessive interest in the subject, and in this book she invites on a tour of her own explorations into the history, locations, and people surrounding the fatal moments of the above gentlemen and their more famous counterpart, Abraham Lincoln. It seems odd to describe a book about such a disturbing subject as \"delightful,\" but Sarah has just the right sense of macabre, intellectual humor to guide us through the museums of the icky (presidential bone fragments, anyone?) to settle on the fascinating. And there really is quite a bit to fascinate in each of these three murders, from the political climate of each event to investigations of the conspirators to modern-day similarities to those previous times. Not to mention the odd fact of Lincoln's son, Robert Todd Lincoln, eerily showing up on the periphery of all three of these major historical events. My only real complaint with the book was that Ms. Vowell occasionally assumed I knew more American history than I actually did, sometimes failing to adequately introduce certain characters or themes enough for me to quite understand their roles in the story. But this is a minor quibble with an otherwise highly readable book that makes me feel slightly less guilty about those high school naps. ...more In every creative writing program, an insanely big deal is made of Voice\u2014discovering a Voice, having a Voice, having a unique Voice, maintaining your unique Voice, I can\u2019t follow the story but oh that Voice, yes it\u2019s misogyny but what a Voice! The concept of voice is another in the long list of writing program sillynesses (others: science fiction isn\u2019t legitimate writing, it\u2019s not O.K. to admit influence from well-known writers, and the word poignant means something). But there is no doubt that h In every creative writing program, an insanely big deal is made of Voice\u2014discovering a Voice, having a Voice, having a unique Voice, maintaining your unique Voice, I can\u2019t follow the story but oh that Voice, yes it\u2019s misogyny but what a Voice! The concept of voice is another in the long list of writing program sillynesses (others: science fiction isn\u2019t legitimate writing, it\u2019s not O.K. to admit influence from well-known writers, and the word poignant means something). But there is no doubt that having a singular voice in one\u2019s writing can help talk one\u2019s way from tattered manuscript to cloth-bound, ISBN\u2019ed, publicity-toured book. It\u2019s one of the rare places where writing program, lit mag, and acquisitions editor office overlap: great voice = great writing (= great $). Writer and This American Life storyteller Sarah Vowell\u2014author previously of The Partly Cloudly Patriot and other books\u2014has such an amusing spoken voice\u2014as any six-year-old or Daily Show watcher can now tell you\u2014that Pixar had her voice the character of Violet in The Incredibles. Coming out of a kid\u2019s mouth, her voice is squashed, the breaks and rasps always audible in her NPR and book-tour readings seemingly all that\u2019s left. Coming out of the real-life, adult, on-the-page Sarah Vowell, though, her voice is the spillings out of anyone awkwardly and energetically overcompensating. And, boom, there\u2019s her charm, and the charm of Assassination Vacation, Vowell\u2019s latest book-length road trip along another unnoticed plane of American history, in this case the tourism of American presidential assassinations. Lest you wonder how this could be a worthy subject, Vowell offers that there\u2019s a parallel to relical pilgrimage, which speaks to the supposed fervor or irrationality of those who would abandon all security to travel a thousand miles to inhale the healing dust of a saint. But Vowell\u2019s obsession (and voice) affixes itself instead to the caretakers of American reliquaries\u2014the tour guide of the house where John Wilkes Booth stopped to resupply after shooting President Lincoln; the ranger in charge of Dry Tortugas National Park, where Booth\u2019s doctor/convicted accomplice was imprisoned; the manager of the freakish Oneida Community mansion in upstate New York, where lived the serially unpopular Garfield assassin Charles Guiteau. If medieval pilgrimage speaks more about the pilgrim than the saint, then it undercuts the fun of Assassination Vacation that only conscripted schoolchildren, the elderly, and Sarah Vowell actually visit these places. She has no pilgrims to talk to. Her writing about the caretakers\u2014people largely there by dint of circumstance, people who grew into their interest rather than stalked it\u2014feels like an editorial save more than the heart of a good story. Aye, but the Voice. Vowell\u2019s style really is the engine of her books, and her \u201cshenanigans,\u201d as she and This American Life boss Ira Glass call her tangents, have coalesced into a discreet skill to pack researched and lived events into the smallest page-space possible. Her seeming desperation to push her imagination in every historical-narrative direction leads to well-earned, well-appreciated, and well-Voiced wonderings like the following: My head tells me autopsies after murders are routine, that before Ford\u2019s Theater turned into a shrine it was a crime scene, that of course the evidence of the crime was analyzed, then archived, that Abraham Lincoln was not just a martyr or a myth but a case file, what the pros nowadays call a \u201cvic.\u201d So the evidence here calls up the corporeal presence of Lincoln (pieces of his head\u2014gross\u2014and Booth, who bought this very bullet, put said bullet in his pistol, then into Lincoln, which struck the skull, thereby chipping off these little pieces of it, mashing the bullet itself. These well-labeled, well-lit artifacts also suggest the existence of: the autopsy surgeon, the file clerk who catalogued and stowed them, the curator who decided to put them on display, the carpenter who built the display case, etc. It\u2019s always a fine thing when writers get readers to sneak their minds into freshly hewn nooks. The large-context problem though with Assassination Vacation is that Vowell provides no hierarchy. Despite the aggressive leveling of story structures in the last decades, readers still need a way to know what things are more important than other things. Vowell\u2019s voice doesn\u2019t allow this, because she\u2019s equally excited about everything. It\u2019s an intoxicating enthusiasm, to be sure, but only for a time. She pulls the reader along with her to obscure sites, to view obscure plaques, to reflect on obscure statues and houses and legends, but in the end she violates another writing program rule, one that\u2019s actually true\u2014and she admits as much\u2014that stories don\u2019t work if their only force for cohesion is coincidence. Coincidence, after all, is only in the eye of the beholder. Thus, there are some buried gems of American history in Assassination Vacation but without an organizing force beyond Vowell\u2019s own Voice, beyond her own obsessions and will, you might find yourself asking to be let off the tour. ...more Another one I didn't finish, and I'll try and save you the trouble of starting. The book was relatively entertaining when it was talking about the assassinations of the title (Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley), especially Lincoln - Vowell devotes the largest slice of the book to him and John Wilkes Booth. However, over time I got tired of the author taking every opportunity to take juvenile shots at the Bush administration, the Iraq war, and Republicans in general. It might have been interesting Another one I didn't finish, and I'll try and save you the trouble of starting. The book was relatively entertaining when it was talking about the assassinations of the title (Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley), especially Lincoln - Vowell devotes the largest slice of the book to him and John Wilkes Booth. However, over time I got tired of the author taking every opportunity to take juvenile shots at the Bush administration, the Iraq war, and Republicans in general. It might have been interesting in an actual, serious book about politics, but this is not that - instead, Vowell's political criticism is just above the level of \"Bush is the devil! All Republicans are stupid!\" Honestly, it just got tiring. I was into the last chapter (\"McKinley's behavior in the Philippines is just like Bush's in the Iraq war! Also, the Indians were oppressed!\"), and I just didn't care enough to read the last 40 pages. A book actually comparing the Iraq war and the Bush administration, to historical administrations, could be quite interesting. And an actual lighthearted look at these assassinations, which is what I thought I was getting, could have been very enjoyable. Someone who's trying to do both, with the skill of a newly radicalized college freshman, is just....lame. ...more Just a quick survey to pick your brains out there. This is in no way real or based on actual events. Let's say that a good neighbor, friend and fellow book junkie lends you a paperback book. Let's say it is called... oh I don't know... Assassination Vacation. Suppose the book got very mild water damage on it, just enough to look like you read it on the sea shore of Bermuda. This was in fact no fault of your own, probably water splashed on it when you were washing black grease off of baby ducks wh Just a quick survey to pick your brains out there. This is in no way real or based on actual events. Let's say that a good neighbor, friend and fellow book junkie lends you a paperback book. Let's say it is called... oh I don't know... Assassination Vacation. Suppose the book got very mild water damage on it, just enough to look like you read it on the sea shore of Bermuda. This was in fact no fault of your own, probably water splashed on it when you were washing black grease off of baby ducks where you volunteer at the animal shelter or when you were swimming with the infirm where you are also a charming and beloved volunteer. Suppose said book has been painstakingly marked for an upcoming book club with flags and notes in the margins, etc. rendering it nearly impossible to just replace. Would you... a. Give it back and never acknowledge said water damage. b. Wait until a rainy day and return it by putting it on the front porch. c. Buy a new book for the owner and give both back. d. Announce the dilemma on the world wide web. Thanks for your help on this purely hypothetical situation. ...more A quirky look at three assassinations; Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley(why no Kennedy?) as the author travels around to various locations related to each event. Vowell uses humor(dry to sardonic)with splashes of historical anecdotes in what I would consider more essay than history. Half the book is spent on Lincoln, Booth and his conspirators with stops at multiple locations including the Mudd home(which is apparently still difficult to find) and Fort Jefferson in Florida where the conspirators w A quirky look at three assassinations; Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley(why no Kennedy?) as the author travels around to various locations related to each event. Vowell uses humor(dry to sardonic)with splashes of historical anecdotes in what I would consider more essay than history. Half the book is spent on Lincoln, Booth and his conspirators with stops at multiple locations including the Mudd home(which is apparently still difficult to find) and Fort Jefferson in Florida where the conspirators were incarcerated. There were some short, odd tangents in the remaining sections, in the Garfield/Guiteau section a fair amount of time is spent on the Oneida Community(Guiteau spent some time with the Oneida) and the McKinley/Czolgosz section veered in to some moments with Emma Goldman and Teddy Roosevelt's hasty return from Mount Marcy as McKinley took a turn for the worse. While enjoyable, the approach of the book seemed a bit scattershot and I never felt compelled to keep reading at the expense of other things. 6/10 ...more Vowell's blend of humor, travelogue, and history works for me. I regularly chuckle and \"oooh, interesting\" when I read her work. Assassination Vacation was engaging and fun. In her signature style, Vowell delves into the assassination plots (and the assassins) for three US presidents: Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley - all in the latter-half of the 19th-century. Lincoln's assassination (expectedly) gets the largest page count, but it includes some interesting historical notes - and some very mode Vowell's blend of humor, travelogue, and history works for me. I regularly chuckle and \"oooh, interesting\" when I read her work. Assassination Vacation was engaging and fun. In her signature style, Vowell delves into the assassination plots (and the assassins) for three US presidents: Lincoln, Garfield, and McKinley - all in the latter-half of the 19th-century. Lincoln's assassination (expectedly) gets the largest page count, but it includes some interesting historical notes - and some very modern ones, e.g. who built and maintains this John Wilkes Booth Memorial in the median of US301 near Port Royal, Virginia?? [I've driven this stretch of highway before, and now I really need to keep my eyes peeled for it!] Garfield's assassination was familiar to me, thanks to Millard's Destiny of the Republic: A Tale of Madness, Medicine and the Murder of a President , but ummm... I preferred Vowell's recounting. Funny how that works out, as I love straight up history, but Millard went a little too far in the beatification of Garfield, while Vowell focused more on the one-man--delusional-show of Charles Guiteau. Of course, since I already knew the story from Millard, I was able to understand more of Vowell. Charles Guiteau drawn as court jester holding \"An Office or Your Life\" as a sign McKinley gets short shrift here, the first part of \"his\" chapter is more or less still about Garfield, and then quickly gets into some brief history of Buffalo, NY, where McKinley's assassination took place, and then is almost totally taken over by the larger than life Teddy Roosevelt, McKinley's VP and successor. Interesting note here: Robert Todd Lincoln, President Lincoln's only surviving son, was near/present at *all three* of these assassinations - obviously his father's, he was in the train station with Garfield, and while not \"with McKinley\", he had just arrived in town for the Pan-American conference at the same time as McKinley. Poor dude was a bad omen. 4.5 stars ...more Published in 2005, Assassination Vacation is part-travelogue, part-history book and part-essay by Sarah Vowell, an American author, essayist, journalist and social commentator. I copied those descriptions from Wiki because they are very relevant and apparent in this book's overall feel. In the beginning of the story, Vowell says that she is afraid that someday when she is old and gray and her niece opens her photo album, she will see that all those pictures were taken from memorials, historical Published in 2005, Assassination Vacation is part-travelogue, part-history book and part-essay by Sarah Vowell, an American author, essayist, journalist and social commentator. I copied those descriptions from Wiki because they are very relevant and apparent in this book's overall feel. In the beginning of the story, Vowell says that she is afraid that someday when she is old and gray and her niece opens her photo album, she will see that all those pictures were taken from memorials, historical sites, gravesites and statues of assassinated American presidents. Funny, but I agree that Vowell seems to have fixations or obssession on assassinations. That I think makes this book a league of its own. Unique. Vowell touring the sites where the likes of President Abraham Lincoln (assassin: John Wilkes Booth in 1865), President James Abram Garfield (assassin: Charles J. Guiteau in 1881) and President William McKinley (assassin: Leon Frank Czolgosz in 1901). Lincoln was the 16th, Garfield the 20th and McKinley the 25th presidents of the United States of America. It's good that the security has improved during our century. Otherwise, what would happen to the whole world if the occupant of the White House (who is the commander-in-chief of the world's police) is killed by an assassin every 4 or 5 of them? This is an enjoyable and very informative read for a non-American like me. I learned a lot from Vowell. Examples are that the son of President Lincoln actually witness these 3 assassinations. That President Garfield (oh why did they name that cat after their beloved President?) served only 200 days in the office (the second shortest term as President) before he was killed in Potomac. However, what really made me very interested is President McKinley because he was the US President who decided to colonize Cuba and the Philippines. In his speech to the Congress, he even invoked his responsibility to God to colonize the Philippines to spread christianity and prevent the spread of anarchy, etc which is compared by Vowell to Bush invading Iraq to find the weapons for mass destruction (WMD) which is still to be found at the time of this writing explained Vowell. Unfortunately, only around 50 pages are about President McKinley's life and assassination. More than half of the book are on President Lincoln. That is understandable because President Lincoln is one (if not the best) of the best presidents ever stayed in the White House. In my opinion at least. ...more The oxymoronic title of this book sums it up: it\u2019s a travelogue of Sarah Vowell\u2019s tours to all the important sites surrounding the assassinations of three out of four of America\u2019s assassinated presidents, ie Abraham Lincoln, James Garfield, and William McKinley. Lincoln gets the longest chapter because he\u2019s the most famous and revered. Sarah gives him a beautiful tribute, particularly with her quote from Frederick Douglass\u2019 eulogy. Reading about the other two presidents was a completely differen The oxymoronic title of this book sums it up: it\u2019s a travelogue of Sarah Vowell\u2019s tours to all the important sites surrounding the assassinations of three out of four of America\u2019s assassinated presidents, ie Abraham Lincoln, James Garfield, and William McKinley. Lincoln gets the longest chapter because he\u2019s the most famous and revered. Sarah gives him a beautiful tribute, particularly with her quote from Frederick Douglass\u2019 eulogy. Reading about the other two presidents was a completely different experience because almost all the information was new to me. All three together make a continuous thread through American history. Like Lincoln\u2019s assassination, Garfield\u2019s also arose from post-Civil War conflict, and McKinley, himself a Civil War veteran, ushered in the new phase of north-south cooperation as the U.S. grew into a global power. This is the second Sarah Vowell book I\u2019ve ever read, and I liked it even more than the last one ( The Wordy Shipmates , which is about the Puritans.) It\u2019s got more history, more snarky laughs, and a lot less vitriol. (As an ex-Christian and part Native American, Sarah Vowell has more of an axe to grind against the Puritans.) The one flaw is a few immodest parts; Garfield\u2019s assassin had been a member in a free love colony for five years. If not for that, I\u2019d be pushing the book on my son. It\u2019s a fun way to learn some good solid history. ...more This was a fine book! Sarah Vowell is a cross between Doris Kearns Goodwin, Jon Stewart and Wednesday Addams. Her knowledge AND love of her topic are clear. I started wondering if she would just make each stop on her bizarre journey a punch line but found something quite different: a fine discussion of events surrounding the people and places involved in the assassination of three presidents: Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley. And did I learn stuff... Such rich information framed by her odd obsessi This was a fine book! Sarah Vowell is a cross between Doris Kearns Goodwin, Jon Stewart and Wednesday Addams. Her knowledge AND love of her topic are clear. I started wondering if she would just make each stop on her bizarre journey a punch line but found something quite different: a fine discussion of events surrounding the people and places involved in the assassination of three presidents: Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley. And did I learn stuff... Such rich information framed by her odd obsessions and quirky wit. She drags her reluctant but loyal friends and family on this odd journey making her story more endearing: who hasn't tried to enlist our closest friends and family to enter our own odd little world of obsessions? My favorite part was her musings at the end of the book: Comparing her love and obsession with history to the religion she rejected. She sees the blurred lines between the two and perhaps deep in her heart hopes to reconcile. Who knows how that will turn out? What I am most grateful for is that she makes it clear that within the soul of a progressive, liberal-minded thinker beats the heart of a true patriot honestly and deeply stirred by the sight of the Lincoln Memorial, the historical plaques and war memorials and all they represent. This was indeed a fine book. ...more I first saw Sarah Vowell on The Daily Show and I was intrigued by her. This slight, dry, kind of sleepy-looking woman was not who you might expect when you run the words \"presidential historian\" through your mind (in my mind, \"presidential historian\" is usually an older man of leisure who's managed to be lucky enough to turn a passion into a job), but there she was. The fact that she was also really funny impressed me even further. And so, since I have a long-running fascination with presidentia I first saw Sarah Vowell on The Daily Show and I was intrigued by her. This slight, dry, kind of sleepy-looking woman was not who you might expect when you run the words \"presidential historian\" through your mind (in my mind, \"presidential historian\" is usually an older man of leisure who's managed to be lucky enough to turn a passion into a job), but there she was. The fact that she was also really funny impressed me even further. And so, since I have a long-running fascination with presidential history myself, I set out to Mooch this book. And it was well worth it. Being interested in Presidents means a lot of things. For some, it's the semi-regular top/bottom ten Presidents lists, or comparing one to another in terms of their accomplishments and scandals. Some people develop a fascination with the more obscure Presidents, hoping to rescue their names and deeds from the dustbin of history. Others look to see what kind of social or cultural changes they made in their times. In short, if you want to learn about the Presidents, there are a lot of ways you can go about it. Ms. Vowell here explores the more morbid side of Presidential history, especially the inevitable morbidness of being in history-love with Abraham Lincoln. In the special features section of The Incredibles DVD (she played Violet), you can see that she compares Lincoln to a superhero, and has multiple instances of Lincoln idolatry around her home. She admires Lincoln's steadfastness and resolve, his determination to hold the Union together, and the humanity that connected him to the rest of the common people. Lincoln, in life, has a great deal to appreciate. Study Lincoln long enough, however, and you eventually get to the sad part - his assassination by John Wilkes Booth in 1865. Sitting in Ford's Theatre in Washington DC, she was struck by the same thought many people have when they go there - \"Wow. This was the place.\" She sat in the Chinese restaurant that was built on the site of the boarding house where Booth and his co-conspirators made their plans and thought the same thing. And before she knew it, she was on a pilgrimage, a holy quest to visit all the places involved in the death of Abraham Lincoln. And there are a lot of places to visit, in New York, Illinois, and even off the Florida Keys, to say nothing of the area immediately around DC. Lincoln's assassination echoed from that box seat in Ford's Theatre and shook the nation. Of the four Presidents that have been assassinated, most people only really know about two: Lincoln and Kennedy. But there were two others brought down by the assassin's gun - Garfield and McKinley. So Vowell expanded her pilgrimage to include them as well, giving them the same treatment and respect that she gives to her hero, Mr. Lincoln. Why she decided not to do Kennedy is not explained. Perhaps because it hasn't been long enough since the event, or because there's so much controversy surrounding it already.... The book is a nice tour through the lives of one President we all know, and two that we don't. And it's all fun to read, which is usually hard to do with history, much less the history of James Garfield. She reveals that each assassination came about by a complex series of events, and was triggered by many things - frustration, anger, despair, madness - and that each one was a tragedy, even if we don't appreciate them all that much. Along the way, we get a refresher on American history, and a little contemporary comparison as well. For example, the Spanish-American war, over which McKinley presided, bears a shocking resemblance to the current war in Iraq. Both were wars of choice, fought for material gain, and initiated by dubious claims of aggression, just for starters. \"Then, as now,\" she says, \"optional wars are fought because there are people in the government who really, really want to fight them.\" One of Vowell's great talents in this field is being able to link things together, so that the decision made by, say, John Wilkes Booth has effects that can be traced to Emma Goldman, and then to Leon Czolgosz. Or how the utopian free love community of Oneida, New York accidentally spawned the bizarre madman Charles Guiteau, and then went on to make rather nice teapots. This is a technique that history teachers need to learn if they're going to give the world more people like Sarah Vowell - an understanding that history is not a series of isolated events, where you can look at a name, a place and a date and say, \"Well, that's that.\" History is an ongoing process, with cause and effect coming one after another, often in strange and unexpected ways. Perhaps if people could see how a single event in the past directly influences the way they live in the present, they'd take more interest. It's a fun read. If you weren't interested in history before you read this book, you'll at least be a little warmer to it afterwards. Also, she won my heart right in the beginning by saying that part of the impetus to write this book was watching Stephen Sondheim's musical Assassins , which I know nearly by heart even now, so many years after it was put on stage back at Siena. Every now and then she'd sprinkle a bit from the musical into the book - Charles Guiteau was a hoot - and I'd smile knowingly. Must listen to that again.... ...more I enjoyed this book thoroughly. Since Sarah Vowell is a regular radio personality on NPR, I had the good fortune of having her cute voice replace mine in my head as I read through this genuinely interesting and witty discourse of American history. I am always captivated by history books that give away little unknown details of the past, and Sarah Vowell really excells in this arena. For example, did you know that the 1922 revealing of the Lincoln Monument in Washington D.C. was segregated? Also, I enjoyed this book thoroughly. Since Sarah Vowell is a regular radio personality on NPR, I had the good fortune of having her cute voice replace mine in my head as I read through this genuinely interesting and witty discourse of American history. I am always captivated by history books that give away little unknown details of the past, and Sarah Vowell really excells in this arena. For example, did you know that the 1922 revealing of the Lincoln Monument in Washington D.C. was segregated? Also, that Geronimo, famed leader of the Chiricachua Apaches, died imprisoned in Oklahoma's Fort Sill? I didn't know that little bit of Oklahoma history. This book revolves around three United States presidential assasinations (Lincoln, Garfield, & McKinley; however, the beauty of it is that it doesn't only focus on the presidents. In fact, the presidents hardly star in their own dramas. Vowell chooses very tactfully to delve into the lives of the assasins, their cohorts, the vice-presidents, and any other involved parties. So, instead of a historical account on Lincoln, the reader gets a brief biography of John Wilkes Booth. The piece also does a superb job of connecting the past events with those occuring presently or have occured in the recent past. For instance, did you know that Timothy McVeigh (bomber of the Oklahoma City Murrah Federal Building in 1995) wore a shirt with the quote, \"Sic Semper Tyrannis!\" (Thus be to Tyrants) the same quote that John Wilkes Booth yelled after he shot Lincoln and jumped on to the stage of the Ford Theater? I think my favorite aspect of this book is the fact that it is written by a woman who is obviously liberal and lets it be known, but she doesn't politicize the actual history and events themselves. She presents the facts with an unbiased whim! Plus, the book is surprisingly patriotic. I guess I should have foreseen the patriotism of the piece. I mean, there's no way that one writes an entire book covering three specific U.S. president assasinations without showing an absolute dedication to historical facts. Sarah Vowell has to be a devout patriot in order to have put so much effort into such a brilliant piece. This is a great book to get a conservative to read. I suggested it to my father. We'll see if he actually pursues it. ...more history never repeats: \"In 2003 and 2004, as I was traveling around in the footsteps of McKinley, thinking about his interventionist wars in Cuba and the Philippines, the United States started up an interventionist war in Iraq. It was to be a 'preemptive war' whose purpose was to disarm Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, weapons which, as I write this, have yet to be found, and which, like the nonexistent evidence of wrongdoing on the Maine , most likely never will be. At the outset of the war, Pr history never repeats: \"In 2003 and 2004, as I was traveling around in the footsteps of McKinley, thinking about his interventionist wars in Cuba and the Philippines, the United States started up an interventionist war in Iraq. It was to be a 'preemptive war' whose purpose was to disarm Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, weapons which, as I write this, have yet to be found, and which, like the nonexistent evidence of wrongdoing on the Maine , most likely never will be. At the outset of the war, President Bush proclaimed that 'our nation enters into this conflict reluctantly, yet our purpose is sure,' just as President McKinley stated, regarding Cuba, 'It is not a trust we sought; it is a trust from which we will not flinch.' I downloaded the Platt Amendment's provisions toward Cuba from the National Archives' Web site ( http://www.archives.gov/ ), saw the provision requiring the Cubans to lease land to the United States for a naval base, and then thought about the several hundred Taliban and other prisoners of the War on Terror being held there at Guant\u00e1namo Bay. I read a history book describing how McKinley's secretary of war Elihu Root finally\u2014after press uproar sparked Senate hearings\u2014got around to ordering court-martials for U.S. officers accused of committing the 'water cure' in the Philippines, and, closing the book, turned on a televised Senate Armed Services Committee hearing in which Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld was grilled about photographs of giddy U.S. soldiers proudly pointing at Iraqi prisoners of war they had just tortured at the Abu Ghraib prison. I went to NYU to hear former vice president Al Gore deliver a speech calling for Rumsfeld's resignation; Gore asked of the administration's imploding Iraq policy in general and the Abu Ghraib torture photos in particular, 'How dare they drag the good name of the United States of America through the mud of Saddam Hussein\u2019s torture prison?' Then I walked home through Washington Square Park, where Mark Twain used to hang out on the benches in his white flannel suit when he lived around the corner, and sat down in my living room to reread Twain's accusation that McKinley's deadly Philippines policy has 'debauched America's honor and blackened her face before the world.'\" ...more Last summer Sarah Vowell and David Sedaris did a reading in my town (I did not attend as I'd seen him twice before and the tickets were three times as expensive) but a friend of mine alerted us to where they were dining after the reading. My friend Kaitlin had thrown a party for her boyfriend Josh that afternoon to celebrate the completion of his second masters degree -- so we had been drinking steadily since about 4pm. We made it to the restaurant around midnight with the hope that we would loo Last summer Sarah Vowell and David Sedaris did a reading in my town (I did not attend as I'd seen him twice before and the tickets were three times as expensive) but a friend of mine alerted us to where they were dining after the reading. My friend Kaitlin had thrown a party for her boyfriend Josh that afternoon to celebrate the completion of his second masters degree -- so we had been drinking steadily since about 4pm. We made it to the restaurant around midnight with the hope that we would look like such a fun hip group that they would invite us over to their table, we'd then invite them over for brunch in the morning, and proceed to become lifelong friends. After waiting for over an hour for our charm to take effect, we started to feel our window closing as they prepared to leave. Our friend who alerted us that they would be there was at their table and when she came over to say hi we lamented to her that our plan of looking cool from afar was totally not working. She took matters into her own hands and asked David if he would mind if she invited us over to their table to meet him. He was incredibly gracious and talked with us for a few minutes, meanwhile Sarah Vowell glared at us annoyed from the other end of the table. What I failed to notice but heard about later was that my friend Kaitlin, seeing us having such a nice visit with David, decided to approach Sarah and tell her \"I'm just like you! We're like the same person!\" Sarah was unpleased -- which is a somewhat understandable response when someone tells you something like that. However, Kaitlin is one of smartest, funniest, lovliest people you could ever meet and therefore I feel she could have been a little cooler about it. I read Assassination Vacation about six months after this incident and perhaps it biased my opinion, but I found her writing to be a bit cold and snarky. Normally i'm a big fan of snarkiness, but her voice had an edge of nastiness to it that I found slightly offputting. There is no denying her wit, humor, and technical skill (which is why I gave it four stars) -- but I didn't find it particularly enjoyable to read and I had no desire to run out and pick up her other books. ...more It is difficult to defend against a single lunatic. After Lincoln got shot, almost every presidential assassination attempt, successful or failed, was carried out by a loner with dubious motives. The reasoning, at least to me, is that it's easier to form information leaks among a group, and a group draws more attention to itseld, it generates communication, and communication is always susceptible to interception. I studied this idea on Wikipedia recently, mulling it over out of a weird fear durin It is difficult to defend against a single lunatic. After Lincoln got shot, almost every presidential assassination attempt, successful or failed, was carried out by a loner with dubious motives. The reasoning, at least to me, is that it's easier to form information leaks among a group, and a group draws more attention to itseld, it generates communication, and communication is always susceptible to interception. I studied this idea on Wikipedia recently, mulling it over out of a weird fear during Obama's first day on the job. It was weird when I later picked up the audiobook for Sarah Vowell's \"Assassination Vacation\" and discovered her addressing the exact thing I wanted to know more about. This is the book I wanted when I grabbed \"The Wordy Shipmate\", this is the experience her radio segments bring in smaller doses. \"Assassination Vacation\" exists at a cross section of Vowell interests that make her approach and her passion all collide to excellent effect. Her morbid fascinations, her love of history, her deft ability to meld personal biography with her research, it's all here. Vowell makes me like history because Vowell shows me the past through her own whimsical world. The structure of the book, where she visited sites associated with the assassinations works well, giving a fun narrative structure almost like a road trip. Vowell's quirky delivery and humor in the audio form helps the whole thing flow effortlessly and I ran out of content wishing she could have just segwayed unto other topics and kept going. The only ding, and it's a small one would be some of the political commentary about the Bush administration. It broke the narrative a few times and just came off as a little more hostile than the topic warranted, and this is coming from a guy who agreed with all her points. Otherwise, this is a must read (or must listen I suppose) for anyone with an interest in history. ...more One time someone told me in a really convincing and authoritative voice that as an English major, it is really bad form that I claimed no interest in history. \u201cAll literature is history,\u201d or maybe \u201cAll history is literature,\u201d this person said and I shrugged and imagined maps and capitols and dates that wars ended and began and bad guys, borders and good guys, red buttons and paperwork and blah blah blah. This has all sort of recently changed for me. I\u2019m getting better at understanding the defini One time someone told me in a really convincing and authoritative voice that as an English major, it is really bad form that I claimed no interest in history. \u201cAll literature is history,\u201d or maybe \u201cAll history is literature,\u201d this person said and I shrugged and imagined maps and capitols and dates that wars ended and began and bad guys, borders and good guys, red buttons and paperwork and blah blah blah. This has all sort of recently changed for me. I\u2019m getting better at understanding the defining features of individual decades, both politically and artistically and especially fashion-wise. As this is all coming into focus, my fifth grade level of history knowledge, more and more every day, I realize just how ignorant it sounds to say \u201cI\u2019m not interested in history,\u201d which is not to say that \u201cAll literature is history\u201d or vice versa isn\u2019t a sort of pretentious way to chastise someone who simply isn\u2019t into something. This is where I blame dozens of teachers who pitched history while I was in school, each providing a dry list of names, dates and locations. I remember raising my hand in fifth grade and basically saying to my teacher: \u201cI don\u2019t really understand war. So, the teams just get in a line opposite each other and start shooting?\u201d \u201cYes, pretty much,\u201d he said, which wasn\u2019t a satisfying answer to me then, and it really isn\u2019t now. There were, of course, field trips to big buildings where men with briefcases explained how government works and pointed to portraits. But mostly field trips were just a chance to wrap a can of Dr. Pepper in tinfoil and worry about who your seat mate would be on the bus. Forget about college when I had to suddenly cram a history class into my schedule and the only one left was Ancient and reminded me of grainy movies that played on Sunday afternoons. Men in loin clothes and flip flops brandishing swords. Cut to Sarah Vowell\u2019s \u201cAssassination Vacation,\u201d a super readable, super entertaining, super funny series of road trips to even the most minute of landmarks tied to the assassination of presidents Lincoln, McKinley and Garfield. Of all the geeky goodness. Vowell tours the land looking at chunks of brains, blood-stained tiles, visiting monuments and graves and considers the back history of the killers who were prompted by God or otherwise assumed they would receive national glory for taking one for the team. And she pays homage to Lincoln\u2019s son, who was either at the scene of the crime, or damn close, for each of these three murders. What a treat! This thought actually came into my head when I finished the first hunk of the book: Aw, nuts, I\u2019m not ready to stop reading about Lincoln\u2019s assassination. But then there was James Garfield, done in by Charles Guiteau, renowned for being so unlikable that even when he joined a community of free love frolickers in upstate New York, he was unable to find a willing sexual partner. Vowells is a free-flow story teller who can explain the political climate at a certain latitude and longitude and then segue into which ironic T her traveling partner is wearing. I\u2019m not guaranteeing that I\u2019m going to retain tons of what I read, but a few interesting facts here and there will come in handy as party tricks. Regardless, for the eight-ish hours it takes to read this book, Vowell had my full attention more than any other person who has attempted to spend eight-ish hours whispering history into my ear. I\u2019m stoked to dig into her catalogue and see what other dead spots in my schooling that she can make interesting. ...more I loved this book. Having borrowed it from the library, I'm almost certainly going to buy an ebook edition so I can dip into it from time to time. Having said that, though, I've got to add that it's quirky enough that if the author's tone grates on you, you might have a hard time with it. I love the author's tone. I love going from laugh-out-loud funny to whoa-gotta-think-about-this in the space of one paragraph. Sarah Vowell embarked on a determined -- one might say \"obsessive\" -- quest to explo I loved this book. Having borrowed it from the library, I'm almost certainly going to buy an ebook edition so I can dip into it from time to time. Having said that, though, I've got to add that it's quirky enough that if the author's tone grates on you, you might have a hard time with it. I love the author's tone. I love going from laugh-out-loud funny to whoa-gotta-think-about-this in the space of one paragraph. Sarah Vowell embarked on a determined -- one might say \"obsessive\" -- quest to explore sites associated with the assassinations of three U.S. presidents: Abraham Lincoln, James Garfield, and William McKinley. If you're anything like me, just about the only thing you know about the latter two is that they were assassinated. In fact, the whole stretch between Lincoln and Teddy Roosevelt is a New Jersey Turnpike of presidential history: nothing sticks in the mind and the attention keeps wandering. Once one gets off the highway, however, the detail is fascinating. Who knew, for instance, that Charles Guiteau, Garfield's assassin, was part of the Oneida utopian community in upstate New York? Or that Leon Czolgosz, who killed McKinley, had the hots for Emma Goldman? (Actually that's not such a stretch, since Czolgosz was an anarchist.) Or -- conspiracy theorists, take note -- that Robert Todd Lincoln was in the vicinity of all three assassinations, in 1865, 1881, and 1901? I didn't even realize that Stephen Sondheim had written Assassins, a Tony Award\u2013winning musical about these people and a few more, some successful and some not. While following the trail of Daniel Chester French, sculptor of the Lincoln statue in the Lincoln Memorial, Vowell sees a production of the play and over breakfast tries to convey her enthusiasm to her fellow guests at a staid B&B in western Massachusetts. It's pretty funny. Vowell was traveling and writing Assassination Vacation as the George W. Bush administration was lying its way into a war on Iraq that turned out to be even more disastrous than the pessimists expected. From time to time, this bleeds through (uh, sorry about that) into the historical narrative, with the result that she feels a startling, fleeting empathy for the assassins, nearly all of whom felt on some level that killing the president was the best and maybe only way to change the nation's course. Reading it while demagogues do their damnedest to whip their followers into a frenzy that makes violence seem thinkable, even necessary . . . It's sobering, to say the least. Anyhow, I'd recommend this book both to readers interested in U.S. history and politics and to those who think that U.S. history and politics are too boring to bother with. They aren't. ...more Over Christmas my sister was listening to \u201cAssassination Vacation.\u201d She kept stopping to tell me, \u201cThis sounds like something you would do.\u201d To write this book, Sarah Vowell fully emerged herself in her passion for the history of presidential assassins focusing primarily on Booth (Lincoln,) Guiteau (Garfield,) and Czolgosz (McKinley.) While I have never honestly considered the presidential assassins other than Lee Harvey Oswald, I will drive out of my way for an obscure historical site. I have p Over Christmas my sister was listening to \u201cAssassination Vacation.\u201d She kept stopping to tell me, \u201cThis sounds like something you would do.\u201d To write this book, Sarah Vowell fully emerged herself in her passion for the history of presidential assassins focusing primarily on Booth (Lincoln,) Guiteau (Garfield,) and Czolgosz (McKinley.) While I have never honestly considered the presidential assassins other than Lee Harvey Oswald, I will drive out of my way for an obscure historical site. I have planned entire vacations around historical sights, for example the great Tennessee & Mississippi battlefield tour of 2014. Show of hands, how many of you have been to the site of The Battle of Brice\u2019s Crossroads? My sister thinks Sarah Vowell and I are cut from the same cloth, just different ends. She is very interested in presidential assassins and does not like to hike. I love to hike and I am more of an early Tennessee/Kentucky history and Civil War buff. But I still want to road trip with her, we can overcome our differences. We both enjoy old homes, death rituals, obscure history and off-beat humor. I enjoyed this book. I loved that no fact was to obscure, especially if there was a site to visit. I doubled my knowledge on President\u2019s Garfield and McKinley. Now I\u2019m hoping for a local production of Stephen Sondheim\u2019s \u201cAssassins.\u201d This is a fun book by a history buff for history buffs. Fun fact or there are less than seven degree of separation between my sister and Sarah Vowell: though they never met my sister and Sarah Vowell were both at Montana State University at the same time in the honor\u2019s program and language department. She did know Sarah\u2019s mother. ...more", "Title": "Assassination Vacation"},
