{"Comments": "This is an odd book. Now that I have finished reading it, I'm not sure why I was so enamored of it. With so much discussion of spells and enchantment, I wouldn't be surprised if the book put a spell on me. Despite overall enjoying the book, there are still lots of things about it that irritated me. First, the author needed a better editor. I am finding more often that books surrounded by a certain amount of hype are not well-edited. I don't know if the editors think that every word the author wr This is an odd book. Now that I have finished reading it, I'm not sure why I was so enamored of it. With so much discussion of spells and enchantment, I wouldn't be surprised if the book put a spell on me. Despite overall enjoying the book, there are still lots of things about it that irritated me. First, the author needed a better editor. I am finding more often that books surrounded by a certain amount of hype are not well-edited. I don't know if the editors think that every word the author writes is gold or if editors are timid, but in either case they aren't doing their job. Much of this book could have chopped out and the story tightened up. There are too many extraneous details that weigh down the plot (and what exactly the plot is is also a good question). I think the author, in order to differentiate her witch/vampire/supernatural book from all the other supernatural books on the shelves,<---M> threw in everything</---M>, including the kitchen sink, into her novel. It's exhausting stumbling around the pages trying to figure out what the plot is. I'm going to try not being too specific because even though nothing really happens in this novel (really, nothing does), there is information that shouldn't be divulged until you read the novel. Harkness has several plot lines going: the mysterious Ashmole 782 manuscript, the forbidden love affair between Diana the relunctant witch and Matthew the 1,000 + years old vamp, the mysterious death of her parents, the possible extinction of the supernatural beings, the Congregation wanting to know the extent of Diana's power, tracing Diana's DNA, and the threat of a witch/vamp war.<---F> It's all a little crazy</---F>. This book is some kind of pseudo-science, pseudo-historical novel what with all the science and history. The excessive alchemical details get annoying, as does the DNA discussions(and you'd better know what mtDNA is because I don't think the book does a good job explaining it. Luckily, I knew). However, unlike the alchemy stuff (which I don't see the point of), at least the DNA information is related to the plot(s) of the book. The romance is fairly interesting and intense at first, but it quickly peters out into some of kind of tame, boring, lovey-dovey PG-rated sappy mess. It's not that I need pornographic details, but the author kept telling me how much they loved each other and how intense their passion was, but I never really felt it. Matthew, as a scary vampire, is a huge disappointment to me. I'm sorry,but you cannot have this vampire doing yoga and talking DNA with new-age geeky precision and then have me believe that he is all that scary. Nope, just doesn't work. Diana is also a disappointment. She's extremely annoying. She talks about how she wants to be a strong, independent woman, but in reality she is the wimpiest, most annoying witch ever. She won't use her witchy powers (which, to give the author some credit, I understand why she had this attitude), but when it comes time for her to protect herself, she wimps out, cowers, faints, and in rushes Matthew to save her AGAIN. Give me a break. The book is basically just a description of food, wine, her \"stretchy black pants\" and all the places Matthew took her to keep her hidden from the Congregation. (I don't like the term Congregation either. Makes me think of church and not a scary group of supernatural beings.)Apparently this book was compared to the Twilight series, which I think odd because I never saw the connection (I have read them all, to my shame). What I will compare this book to is the Charlaine Harris Sookie Stackhouse series. Those books are far superior to this book. Sookie is poor little human with just her one skill (she can read minds) and yet she protects herself quite well, rarely needs her supernatural friends to come to her rescue, and has several times saved her vampire boyfriends. Plus, she does it all with a sense of humor. Diana, who apparently has every witchy power ever known, plus some that aren't, can barely twinkle her nose to make magical tea. Another point of irritation with me are all the characters who need their backstories told. I don't really need to know or want to know everything about these characters. If they are going to stick around for awhile, tell me their stories later or create a glossary and stick them at the back of the book. The flow of the novel is stopped over and over again to tell me something not all that interesting about a minor character. My last point is about this ridiculous Knights of Lazarus organization. I find this organization absolutely unbelievable and incomprehensible. I'm not giving away any plot secrets by mentioning this because I still can't figure out what the author meant by creating this order of do-gooder vamps who have helped people in need over the centuries. It's so ridiculous. Whenever it was brought up, I tried to skim over it, hoping it would disappear. The haunted Bishop house, the house as a character, was entertaining. I did enjoy that detail. Overall though, now that I've written this review, I'm trying to figure out what exactly I DID like about the book. This book basically sets up the next two books in the trilogy. I will probably read the second book but I doubt I will buy it. I think Harkness, just as with Justin Cronin of The Passage , saw an opportunity to make some money on the current (and lasting way too long) vampire, witch, supernatural creatures popular literature fad. However,Harkness has taken vampires and turned them into wine-loving, gentle, kind creatures who wear business suits or lab coats, have tons of money, and are really kind of boring. ...more okay, so the good things: I liked the world/mythology/etc, and was amused by the Anne Rice reference! And I also liked the subtle pro-gay marriage message. It could have actually been a lot of fun except for the romance part, which went like this: (SPOILERS!) Diana: I am exceptionally good at being a historian of science, and I even have a job at Yale! I am also a witch, but I don't use my powers. Much. Gosh this mysterious manuscript sure is mysterious! Matthew: I AM TALL. I WENT THROUGH YOUR PAPE okay, so the good things: I liked the world/mythology/etc, and was amused by the Anne Rice reference! And I also liked the subtle pro-gay marriage message. It could have actually been a lot of fun except for the romance part, which went like this: (SPOILERS!) Diana: I am exceptionally good at being a historian of science, and I even have a job at Yale! I am also a witch, but I don't use my powers. Much. Gosh this mysterious manuscript sure is mysterious! Matthew: I AM TALL. I WENT THROUGH YOUR PAPERS AND THEN CAME TO YOUR HOUSE AND WATCHED YOU SLEEP. ALSO, I'M AN ANCIENT VAMPIRE. Diana: Um, okay? Matthew: SAY WOULD YOU LIKE TO DO SOME VAMPIRE YOGA WITH ME? THAT IS NOT A EUPHEMISM, BY THE WAY. Diana: I guess so. I could do that after I go rowing and then run several miles. Matthew: I HAVE A LOT OF USEFUL INFORMATION THAT I'M NOT GOING TO TELL YOU. ALSO, YOU SMELL AMAZING. I CAN BARELY CONTROL MYSELF WHEN YOU'RE AROUND. Diana: Oh well, I'm sure it's fine. Matthew: I FORBID YOU TO DO VARIOUS THINGS. ALSO, YOUR LIFE IS IN DANGER SO WE'RE GOING TO VISIT MY MOM. IN FRANCE. DID I MENTION I'M FRENCH? Diana: Hey, for serious you can't just tell me what to do all the time. Matthew: I AM COLDLY FURIOUS. ALSO, IT MAKES ME SAD WHEN YOU DISOBEY ME. AND I HATE BEING SAD. YOU KNOW WHAT, I WAS SAD ONCE A THOUSAND YEARS AGO AND THEN I KILLED A BUNCH OF PEOPLE. AND THEN IT HAPPENED THIS OTHER TIME AND I KILLED MY LOVER, JUST SO YOU KNOW. Diana: Oh, right! Silly me. So wilful. Anyway, should we have sex now? Matthew: WHAT? WHY WOULD WE DO THAT? Matthew: OH BY THE WAY THIS IS MY HOUSEKEEPER. SHE IS ALSO AN ANCIENT VAMPIRE, BUT FOR SOME REASON I GUESS SHE LIKES KEEPING HOUSE. Housekeeper: Oh hi, here is some herbal tea! Make sure to drink it every day, and DON'T MAKE ANY MISTAKES WHEN YOU BREW IT. Um, because it might taste bad, not that it's having any effect on you without your knowledge. OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT. Diana: Gosh, thanks! Everyone is so nice here. Matthew: YOUR EYES ARE LIKE STARLIGHT NOW Diana: I love you! Matthew: HANG ON, I NEED TO GO BACK TO ENGLAND FOR SOMETHING. Matthew: I AM BACK FROM ENGLAND! I LOVE YOU! Diana: I feel our souls are as one! These few short weeks have shown me that you are my one true love! Matthew: OH HEY DID I MENTION, YOU KNOW THAT TIME I KISSED YOU IN FRONT OF MY MOM? WELL THAT MEANS WE'RE MARRIED. Diana: Actually you did not mention that. But does this mean we can have sex? Matthew: HAHAHAHA DON'T BE SILLY! Matthew: OH AND ANOTHER THING, THERE IS THIS COMPACT OR SOMETHING THAT SAYS WITCHES AND VAMPIRES CANNOT MARRY! SO THERE ARE A BUNCH MORE PEOPLE TRYING TO KILL US! Diana: What Matthew: OH YEAH TOTALLY! BUT DON'T WORRY BECAUSE IT TURNS OUT YOU ARE THE MOST MAGICAL OF ALL THE WITCHES! Diana: Yeah except my powers are all repressed, anyway I'm just going to go outside for a second and I'm sure I won't get kidnapped and tortured or anything. Matthew: I WILL KILL EVERYONE AND SUMMON THE SECRET BROTHERHOOD OF ANCIENT SECRET KNIGHTS!! Matthew's mom and housekeeper: Wow, calm down. Matthew: OKAY I WILL JUST KILL THIS ONE LADY THEN. Diana: Yay, I learned to fly! I <3 you Matthew!! I am so lucky to be your bride! Let's go visit my aunt in America. Did I tell you I'm from America? Anyway, let's have some sex! Woo! Matthew: I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT. Aunt: Why are you drinking contraceptive tea? Diana: I have no idea. Not because of all the sex I'm having, that's for sure. Matthew: WHAT?? I WILL KILL YOU, HOUSEKEEPER! Diana: Never mind, we have to go to the past and do something about that mysterious manuscript. Did I mention I loooove you!!!?!?!? Matthew: SPEAKING OF WHICH, CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE WAS TOTALLY IN LOVE WITH ME! WE SHOULD GO SAY HI. Diana: I see. So is that why we can't have sex? Matthew: WHAT? NO! IT'S BECAUSE OF THE PURITY AND SPECIALNESS! Matthew: ALSO, HAVE I MENTIONED HOW YOU HAVE ALLLLL OF THE WITCH POWERS? YOU ARE THE BEST WITCH OF ALL TIME! Diana: I love you! THE END ...more Sorry Bronze Horseman, <+++>A Discovery of Witches</+++> has taken the #2 spot for my favorite book <3 Upon sighting this book in a soon-to-be-closed Borders store, I was intrigued. The blurb sounded interesting and the first couple of pages seemed competently written. Despite the huge discount, I hesitated, and instead checked the book out from the library. And am I ever glad that I didn't actually buy it. The book started out promising. Protagonist Diana Bishop, distinguished history scholar and professor (just like the author! uh oh...), repressed witch, tea aficionado, rower and yoga enthusiast Upon sighting this book in a soon-to-be-closed Borders store, I was intrigued. The blurb sounded interesting and the first couple of pages seemed competently written. Despite the huge discount, I hesitated, and instead checked the book out from the library. And am I ever glad that I didn't actually buy it. The book started out promising. Protagonist Diana Bishop, distinguished history scholar and professor (just like the author! uh oh...), repressed witch, tea aficionado, rower and yoga enthusiast, accidentally calls forth a magical text that every witch, vampire, and daemon in the world seems to want. Unfortunately, Diana has a major chip on her shoulder about her own magic. She sends the text back to the stacks where once again, no one can find it. This doesn't sit well with with her fellow magical beings, and they begin a 24/7 stalkfest in hopes that she will retrieve the manuscript again. Early adopter stalker, vampire Matthew Clairmont, proves particularly troublesome. Diana is extremely wary of Matthew, and rightfully so--he follows her everywhere and even breaks into her apartment and watches her sleep. Then they decide to team up and soon fall in love, at which point all semblance of plot disappears and the novel turns into an endless tangent about Diana's newly developed Stockholm Syndrome and how she must be protected from all the (other) dangerous stalkers. At first, I thought that this book was going to be an intelligent Twilight for grown-ups--the main character wasn't helpless, thought for herself, didn't immediately adore her bloodsucking, murderous stalker or find his abusive behavior endearing, and didn't seem interested in losing her entire identity to the first good-looking guy who wanted to eat her. A rebuttal of Twilight, almost. But no. Despite Diana's increasing Mary Sue-ishness as she develops every witch ability ever known, she must constantly be rescued and protected by Edward, er, Matthew. Matthew, meanwhile, is a complete jackass. Trotting out the obnoxious \"pack mentality\" trope so often used in \"paranormal romance\" (a genre that really, really needs to be marked better so that those of us looking for \"urban fantasy\" won't be blindsided every damn time), Matthew is neatly absolved from all responsibility for his sexist insistence that Diana obey him as her husband and for his volatile, potentially murderous temper if and when she doesn't comply. The past seemed gray and cold without Matthew. And the future promised to be much more interesting with him in it. No matter how brief our courtship, I certainly felt bound to him. And, given vampires' pack behavior, it wasn't going to be possible to swap obedience for something more progressive, whether he called me \"wife\" or not. Apparently, this is just fine and dandy with Diana despite her previous proclamations of female independence and autonomy. And oh yeah, Matthew unilaterally married her without even notifying her, and that was fine too. I have a theory that a lot of the current, noxious crop of vampire-themed \"romance\" is a symptom of a cultural backlash against feminism. Once you strip away the paranormal aspect of novels like \"<+++>A Discovery of Witches</+++>\" and its stunted and even more vile cousin \"Twilight\", you are left with stories about abusive, manipulative men who systematically isolate and dominate the female objects of their obsession. The women's identities are subsumed into the men's as the women's lives come to revolve completely around the men, while the men suffer no such mutilation of self--they simply gain an empty, mindlessly adoring, woman-shaped appendage, which is all that is left of the women by the end of the stories. Without the trappings of vampire and/or werewolf hierarchy (always patriarchal, of course), what you're left with is an authorial \"boys will be boys!\" with an underlying message that submission to the (patriarchal) hierarchy is necessary both to achieve happiness and to avoid violence at the hands of the vampires/werewolves/abusive boyfriends/husbands who just can't help it . Even putting aside the issue of the horrible, horrible underlying message in this book, it still has nothing much to offer. Pages and pages are devoted to describing stilted, \"romantic\" conversations that fall flat, how Diana exercises, what she eats, what wine they drink, how long she sleeps, what's in her tea, how great their yoga class was, bla bla bla ad infinitum. A little detail here and there is flavor, too much is encyclopedic and boring. Most of the action takes place off-screen while Diana sleeps, or waits, or sleeps and waits. Diana goes from being subject to object almost the very moment that she decides that Matthew, despite being a deadly creature who has been stalking her, might not be so bad after all, and takes little action for the rest of the book except to travel back and forth from Matthew's vampire mother's castle (yes, really) in France (which she comes to think of as her home alarmingly quickly) and her aunt's magical house in England America (New England?), which apparently isn't special enough for her anymore. A whole lot of nothing happens, then Diana gets kidnapped and tortured but is of course rescued by Matthew. A whole lot more nothing happens. Then almost at the end, some new characters show up who seem like they should have been more important to the story but are introduced way too late. Among them is Sophie, a pregnant daemon who was born from witches and is pregnant with a witch baby. Sophie is pregnant, and she will be having a baby, which the author reminds the reader of in nearly every sentence involving Sophie, who is pregnant. Watch her rub her belly with pregnant serenity (or is it smugness? I can't tell)! She is pregnant! Then Diana uses her ungodly overpowered witchy time travel magic to whisk herself and Matthew into the past, because witches used to be more powerful and she needs more powerful witches than currently exist anywhere in the world to teach her reach the full potential of the Mary Sue. In fairness, I must admit that I loved the aunts' magical house, which was almost its own character. Unfortunately, the house was the only part of the book that I didn't feel was 1) endless, unnecessary detail or 2) lifted almost wholesale out of other works. While the author is clearly a competent writer, her storytelling needs a lot of polishing. Honest, heavy editing could possibly have worked wonders on this book; instead, it got hype and marketing. To me, it makes the book all the more disappointing to see that there was potential, that it wasn't a disaster from the start. It almost felt like the book was cut open and artificially inflated with the dull, problematic romance, which it may well have been. I didn't know this book was supposed to be part of a trilogy, since it is only marked as such on the bottom of the front inside jacket cover underneath library tape. I can't imagine wanting to read any further, though. In short: yawn and barf. Now please excuse me while I go write a boring ode to stalkers and Stockholm Syndrome thinly disguised as a vampire novel thinly disguised as a book about witches. If you need me, you can find me laughing all the way to the bank. ...more This book kept me hanging on just enough to stop me from abandoning it. I\u2019m not really sure who this book is aimed at; it\u2019s a very pedestrian, traditional romance wrapped up in a nearly 600 page, painfully slow tale filled with history and science. It\u2019s a bit like a Hallmark card wrapped up in an encyclopedia. The history and science buffs will be turned off by the cheesy center, and the romance lovers will resent having to wade through pages of endless description and detail just to get to the This book kept me hanging on just enough to stop me from abandoning it. I\u2019m not really sure who this book is aimed at; it\u2019s a very pedestrian, traditional romance wrapped up in a nearly 600 page, painfully slow tale filled with history and science. It\u2019s a bit like a Hallmark card wrapped up in an encyclopedia. The history and science buffs will be turned off by the cheesy center, and the romance lovers will resent having to wade through pages of endless description and detail just to get to the good stuff. And speaking of \u201cthe good stuff\u201d \u2013 there isn\u2019t any. If I am going to struggle my way through a sappy romance, the least I would expect is a good sex scene! The female lead is Diana, who is a highly intelligent woman and well respected in her field. She\u2019s also the daughter of two powerful witches who were murdered when she was seven years old. Traumatized by their deaths, she turns her back on magic and devotes her life to study. When she accidentally pulls a heavily enchanted manuscript from the Bodleian library and is somehow able to open it, she draws the attention of the supernatural communities. Matthew, a biochemist vampire with many secrets and motivations of his own, seeks out Diana to investigate. Probably the main thing that turns me off about this book is the cast of characters. Matthew will be startlingly familiar to any reader of paranormal romance. He\u2019s a perfect physical specimen, with vast wealth (including several ancient homes which he built himself), a guilt-inducing past, and a tendency to be an overly protective, patronizing control freak. He also likes to name drop famous historical figures that he\u2019s known, drone on and on about wine, and spout obnoxious lines like, \u201cWill you never wait until I help you?\u201d And, despite being alive for 1,500 years, he apparently still thinks that women are incapable of feeding and clothing themselves or knowing when they\u2019re tired (Don\u2019t worry, he\u2019ll give you sedatives without your knowledge if you try to disagree). He\u2019s the kind of guy who says, \u201cI might not be able to control myself if you step away\u201d after a first kiss, then spends the rest of the book avoiding consummating the relationship, because \u201cthere\u2019s plenty of time\u201d even though at this point the characters have (view spoiler) [ gotten married and both nearly died! (hide spoiler) ] Diana is the otherwise intelligent woman who acts like a child whenever she\u2019s in his presence. She has to be bullied and bated into using her powers, and saved time and time again by Matthew. Despite Matthew\u2019s continual marveling about how powerful and strong she is, her strength is barely in evidence. This book needs some serious trimming. This author is clearly a very bright, intellectual woman and she has a ton of ideas. I just wish she hadn\u2019t put all of them in this one book. She manages to cram in alchemy, paranormal groups, magic, evolution, mythology, medieval knights, politics, DNA testing, yoga, and wine tasting, not to mention (view spoiler) [time travel (hide spoiler) ] before this book is done. There are also four chapters (out of about forty) that are written in third person following Matthew, instead of the first person (Diana) perspective that\u2019s used for the rest of the book. It\u2019s as if she feels the need to show the reader absolutely everything that\u2019s going on, everywhere. This book would have been so much better if she had kept a few ideas in reserve. Some of the topics, like the wine tasting and the yoga, serve no purpose to the story, except perhaps to make Matthew seem even more pretentious. I did enjoy much of the science and history, but there were too many niggling little scientific inaccuracies to keep me spellbound. For instance, Matthew has apparently mapped the DNA of enough witches and other supernatural beings to be able to locate and identify markers of different magical powers, not to mention create a map of the different lineages of witch families. However, he is somehow unable to use the same information to determine whether the different supernatural groups (witches, vampires, and daemons) are genetically related. For all of the author\u2019s vast intelligence, I\u2019m not sure that she really understands evolution either. I\u2019m not one who typically nit-picks stories on the technical details, but this book is so agonizingly slow and the sappy romance is such a turn off for me \u2013 I found myself focusing on the little details more and more. This book is absolutely not for me. However, if you are an intellectual person with a love of sweet, \"courtly love\" type romances, and macho-man heroes, then I think you might like this one. ...more It's quite difficult to gather my thoughts well enough to manage a review. I don't know how or where to begin. I started this book 4 evenings ago, and all I really knew about it was that it was a Witches and Vampires book. Fine, I'll give that a go. As the pages wore on, however, I realized that I was barely making any headway on the % counter. Upon checking, I then found that this book is almost 800 pages long, which is more than almost all of my fantasy DTB's. Wow. I started reading this book ju It's quite difficult to gather my thoughts well enough to manage a review. I don't know how or where to begin. I started this book 4 evenings ago, and all I really knew about it was that it was a Witches and Vampires book. Fine, I'll give that a go. As the pages wore on, however, I realized that I was barely making any headway on the % counter. Upon checking, I then found that this book is almost 800 pages long, which is more than almost all of my fantasy DTB's. Wow. I started reading this book just after midnight, thinking I might see how it started before I got some sleep. I think it was somewhere around the 3-5% mark that I noticed that even though I was tired I did not want to stop reading. So not stop is what I did.... I just kept on reading for 7 hours straight, until my alarm went off and tried to wake me. Oops, I'd forgotten to sleep... It has been a very long time since I have read a book that so captivated me and enthralled me. From those early 3-5% it just starts building and building and grabbing a hold of you, refusing to let go. I've read the book, now, in four long sittings, and the only reason I didn't read it all in one sitting is because my body couldn't handle it and I needed to work. I will not go too much into the actual contents of the book, since experiencing it all was a pleasure I wish all of you to experience unblemished by my spoilers. That being said, this is a paranormal romance story, which should on it's own turn me flying as fast and far away as I could muster my body, but it is so beautifully crafted and the romance is so 'mild', that it wasn't a bother at all. Quite to the contrary, the romance is the glue that keeps the story going. This book is one of the few that I give my 5 stars... the mark of perfection... an indication that it could not have been better. Now begins the long wait for the next installment.... a year or more away from us all. ...more THIS IS ACTUALLY ZERO stars, but it won't be listed if I put zero, so, just so you know - ZERO! . I thought this was going to be a really entertaining read, but I'm giving up. The main character makes no sense, whatsoever. We're told that she isn't able to do magic and then she does magic. Huh??? And then we have the vampire sneaking in her window and watching her sleep, fascinated by her sleeping. Where have I read this before? Let's see....... can anyone think of where they might have read this? THIS IS ACTUALLY ZERO stars, but it won't be listed if I put zero, so, just so you know - ZERO! . I thought this was going to be a really entertaining read, but I'm giving up. The main character makes no sense, whatsoever. We're told that she isn't able to do magic and then she does magic. Huh??? And then we have the vampire sneaking in her window and watching her sleep, fascinated by her sleeping. Where have I read this before? Let's see....... can anyone think of where they might have read this? Anyone? I don't care that she glows when she sleeps. I already know it's because it's linked to her ignoring her magic or because it's trapped inside her or because she's simply too cheap to buy a nightlight(yes, I made that last one up), but I'm not really intrigued enough to find out. What I've learned thus far is that the author is very proud of her knowledge of Oxford and the library there. I could have used far less information about walking around the town, where she goes rowing, where she's sitting in the library for gosh sakes and other unimportant minutiae. I got this book before it was listed as part of a trilogy. BEWARE, series alert. I might have found the energy to finish this one off, but I can't imagine reading three books like this one. Nope, not gonna do it. Fifty pages. That's it. Thank you and good night! Had to create a brand new shelf for this one: \"books-i-choose-not-to-finish\" On the positive side, I'VE DONE IT! I've actually stopped reading a book that I felt was a waste of time. I didn't think I would, but I did it. (Yes, I know it's a small thing to celebrate, but I'm going to do my happy dance anyway!) ...more For mere two bucks I rescued this book from a dusty shelf of a local Goodwill store, adopting it with high hopes. For free, I returned it to the same shelf a few weeks later with dejected feeling, sandwiching it between a rejected copy of 'Twilight' and a tattered paperback with a shirtless guy on the cover. At least it found its rightful spot. And I'm out only two dollars. And I would have gladly paid more to free my own bookshelf of this book. So it goes. My books mercilessly rejected the intrude For mere two bucks I rescued this book from a dusty shelf of a local Goodwill store, adopting it with high hopes. For free, I returned it to the same shelf a few weeks later with dejected feeling, sandwiching it between a rejected copy of 'Twilight' and a tattered paperback with a shirtless guy on the cover. At least it found its rightful spot. And I'm out only two dollars. And I would have gladly paid more to free my own bookshelf of this book. So it goes. My books mercilessly rejected the intruder. ----------- The appeal of it (besides the beautiful cover deceptive in its alluring elegance of royal blue) was the introduction of a (supposedly) adult professional accomplished heroine, a history professor to boot, who allows us to take a fresh new look at supernatural occurrences rooted in history (and in a book written by a historian, too!). No sappy teen romance, no supernatural entities masking as high school bad boys, no helpless heroines in need of rescue as Diana, the protagonist, is supposedly from a strong magical line herself. The reality of it was a book that many characterized as 'Twilight' for adults, which is an uncannily accurate description. We have a whiny insecure heroine (her personality is roughly that of a wet dishrag) who nevertheless is treated like a special snowflake for no reason whatsoever, who falls head over heels over the first remotely hot and mind-bogglingly rich vampire who (a) doesn't really need to drink blood, (b) has an insane amount of 'protectiveness' which really boils down to stalking and over-macho patriarchalism, (c) is hauntingly tortured by his dark past, and (d) is an intolerable self-centered rage-prone jerkass. Before my brain explodes with distaste, here is a brief list of things that are NOT sexy or attractive: stalking, kidnapping, drugging an unsuspecting person, patronizing, condescension, snobbery, uncontrollable anger, murderous tendencies, codependency, and neverending smug name-dropping. Here is a brief list of things that do not have to happen when heroine falls in love : helplessness, fully surrendering control, dramatic drop in intelligence, sudden childishness, unexplained neverending sniffing of the male love interest, need to be constantly rescued, codependency, and propensity for irrational acts. Please feel free to add to any of the lists above. The plot unfolds at a snail pace, getting easily distracted by an endless tedious repetition of any trite details of the characters' lives - wardrobe, meals, tea, lovestruck gazing, enough wine to call an impromptu Alcoholics Anonymous meeting\u00b9, endless hours in the library, tea, lovestruck gazing, athletic activities, more wine, more food, more tea, more wardrobe, more lovestruck gazing, more repetitive description of basically EVERYTHING in almost a diary style, padding the meager plot to an impressive doorstopper size of the finished product. \u00b9 Actually, maybe consuming wine in the quantities described in this book would have helped with the boredom. On the other thought, wine tends to make me sleepy. So does this book. It would have been quite a snoozefest combo. Not to mention the absolutely ridiculous amount of page space given to an inter-species yoga session. Could have been worse, I suppose; it could have been vampire baseball. Or vampire cross-stitching, for all the excitement it brings. Because of such insane repetitive padding of the tiny meager plot lines, the sizable book comes to an end right as real plot is about to start unfolding. Basically, it ends at the point where most self-respecting books would start (but of course, those self-respecting books would not have subjected the reader to such a hefty amount of tedious, superfluous detail to wonder whether the author was paid per word written). In a nutshell, this book was boring and unoriginal, needlessly long and devoid of any exciting plot, full of filler exposition, and perpetuating ridiculous ideas about the roles of male and female love interests. Shame that such a dreck gets such a lovely cover. 1 star. ----------------------------- An interesting thing I observed (something I haven't seen on Goodreads yet): when I try to look up the quotes for this book, that's what I see: Quotes Not Available <---A>Deborah Harkness</---A> has requested that her work not be excerpted or shared on Goodreads. We are complying with her request and have removed all her quotes. To see the DMCA takedown, please click here. I wonder if the slew of negative reviews is in any way responsible for this silliness. ...more HOLY. FREAKING. CRAP. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I just finished this book last night, and I was blown away by it. This is easily going to be the best book that I will read this year, and is going in my top 10 list of best fiction books of all time! Excellent fiction is not always easy to come by. I don't mind mediocre reads from time to time, but it is SO GREAT to be totally stunned by an indescribably excellent book every once in awhile! For one thing, this book is so well-written. The author HOLY. FREAKING. CRAP. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I just finished this book last night, and I was blown away by it. This is easily going to be the best book that I will read this year, and is going in my top 10 list of best fiction books of all time! Excellent fiction is not always easy to come by. I don't mind mediocre reads from time to time, but it is SO GREAT to be totally stunned by an indescribably excellent book every once in awhile! For one thing, this book is so well-written. The author has a beautiful way with words, and her descriptions are eloquent and lovely. There was a seamless flow to this book that was exquisite. Nothing was choppy or out of place; the rhythm, pacing, and phrases used flowed so effortlessly that I was never distracted by the writing or the language (as sometimes happens in fiction). Because of this, I was able to get completely lost in this world; and boy was I! \"Spellbound\" is the only proper way to describe it. Also, the characters were strong and interesting. Knowing that this is the first in what is supposed to be a trilogy, you get a good base understanding of the main and supporting characters with the full knowledge that a deeper relationship with them will come as the story continues to unfold. I have read a few reviews that say the beginning of this book is boring; I did not find it so. I was instantly mesmerized and drawn in. I knew that the author was setting the stage for all that was to come, and while it may seem slow at first, you will be very grateful as you continue in the book. Once I got into the \"thick\" of things, I was grateful to have waded through the beginning, as it gave me a strong foundation for all of the character developments and plot twists that arose throughout the story. MY ONLY COMPLAINT: Now I have to wait for the next book! However will I do that?!?! I tend to get very emotionally involved with books and characters that I love; I already miss spending time with these characters and I am desperate to continue living in their magical world! Dear Ms. Harkness, I am under your spell, please put me out of my misery and publish the next installment soon!!!! ...more ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . Dr. Diana Bishop, descendant of the famous Bridget Bishop of Salem, Massachusetts, turned her back on her natural powers after her parents were killed when she was a child. Instead, she relied on her brain power, went to Oxford and Yale, and became a well-known researcher in the field of history of science. Now she\u2019s back at Oxford, spending the year studying old alchemical texts archived at the Bodleian Library. But when she calls the book known as Ashmol ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . Dr. Diana Bishop, descendant of the famous Bridget Bishop of Salem, Massachusetts, turned her back on her natural powers after her parents were killed when she was a child. Instead, she relied on her brain power, went to Oxford and Yale, and became a well-known researcher in the field of history of science. Now she\u2019s back at Oxford, spending the year studying old alchemical texts archived at the Bodleian Library. But when she calls the book known as Ashmole 782 from the stacks, she can feel its power and she can see hidden writing moving on its pages. It frightens her a bit and she notices that soon after returning it to the stacks, she\u2019s attracted the attention of many creatures \u2014 vampires, daemons, and other witches \u2014 who are suddenly hanging around the Bodleian. One vampire in particular, Matthew Clairmont, an attractive professor of biochemistry and neuroscience, just won\u2019t leave her alone. What is so special about Ashmole 782 and why are all these creatures hoping she\u2019ll call it back? After reading the blurbs about A Discovery of Witches, this was a book I was eagerly waiting for. I love academic settings (especially Oxford), old libraries, and the blend of history and science. And I did enjoy much of A Discovery of Witches for this reason. Diana Bishop is an urban fantasy heroine that I can relate to. She spends her time in libraries instead of tattoo parlors; she prepares lectures and writes letters of recommendation instead of training with weapons and kicking peoples\u2019 butts. I understood her goals and interests and the way that her focus on academic pursuits makes her slightly awkward and absent-minded elsewhere. I was also much intrigued by Matthew Clairmont\u2019s genetic research into the evolution of witches, vampires, and daemons and how this related to Diana\u2019s research in alchemy. Thus, A Discovery of Witches had a lot of potential for me, but there were three problems that sapped my enjoyment: The first is that the book is simply way too long. With nearly 600 pages to work with, Deborah Harkness should have been able to get these interesting ideas farther off the ground. I was frustrated that, by the end, it had become clear that A Discovery of Witches is the first novel in a series. In this first installment, Harkness carefully develops the characters and sets up the romance. There is a lot of sitting in the library, hanging around various houses, talking, drinking tea, and eating. The story covers only about a month of time and I think I witnessed nearly everything Diana ate and drank during that month. Secondly \u2014 and this is a common problem for me in urban fantasies \u2014 I couldn\u2019t appreciate the romance which dominated the plot. Vampires are just not sexy to me and I had a hard time believing that an overprotective, angry, admittedly murderous vampire would be attractive to an independently-minded academic. Not to mention that his body is cold and his heart beats only rarely. He spends a lot of time growling, bossing her around, speaking roughly, giving everyone dark looks, and displaying mate-guarding behaviors \u2014 steering her around by her elbow and with his hand at the small of her back, hovering over her, blocking her path, pushing her up against barriers, \u201cscooping\u201d her up, tossing her on horses, grabbing her by the chin and twisting her neck, telling her she\u2019ll catch cold if she sits on the ground (a guy who sequences DNA thinks that sitting on the ground will make her sick?). He even binds her with an oath without her permission. I find this kind of behavior in a courting male insufferable. This is a common problem for me, and one of the reasons I don\u2019t read much vampire lit, but I wasn\u2019t expecting to encounter this issue in such magnitude in a book about a famous researcher from Oxford and Yale. I know she\u2019s scared of what\u2019s going on in her life, but where is this woman\u2019s self-respect? In some ways, A Discovery of Witches felt like Twilight for middle-aged academics. The most unbelievable part of the entire romance, though is that [removed spoiler \u2014 Read it here .] Thirdly, there are a lot of minor plot issues that just don\u2019t fit into a well-developed fantasy, especially once we leave the academic atmosphere of Oxford and the book starts to feel like Harry Potter. Magic in this world seems arbitrary. We\u2019re told that each power has a genetic marker, which is cool, but its practice is not sufficiently explained. It\u2019s the snap-your-fingers-to-clean-the-dishes, close-your-eyes-and-concentrate-to-fly type. Sparks fly from Diana\u2019s fingers, she cries rivers of tears, witchfire bursts from her outstretched arm. She is suddenly accumulating a host of new skills that make her the most powerful witch alive, but she doesn\u2019t respond with the awe we\u2019d expect. When she finds out that she can time-travel, she practically shrugs it off (and the physics of time-travel don\u2019t even try to make sense). I truly enjoyed the first part of A Discovery of Witches \u2014 the relatable heroine, the university setting, the focus on the history of science. But once the romance got going and we left Oxford, A Discovery of Witches lost its charm. I\u2019m still curious about the blend of genetics, evolution, and alchemy, but the long sick romance dominated this intriguing mystery and the plot could not hold up against it. I may take a look at the sequel, though, just because I really want to know what\u2019s inside Ashmole 782. ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . ...more Well well, Mary Sue, Mary Sue, Mary Sue. I haven't encountered you for a few books. Now I know where you've been keeping yourself. ------- Updated: March 3, 2011. I struggled to finish this novel. The book started out so well with an interesting protagonist, a bibliophile's dream setting, and wonderful descriptions of illustrated manuscripts. The plot tugs at the small thread of 'paranormalcy' in the protagonist's life, and everything goes south from there. Literally south. They leave England and g Well well, Mary Sue, Mary Sue, Mary Sue. I haven't encountered you for a few books. Now I know where you've been keeping yourself. ------- Updated: March 3, 2011. I struggled to finish this novel. The book started out so well with an interesting protagonist, a bibliophile's dream setting, and wonderful descriptions of illustrated manuscripts. The plot tugs at the small thread of 'paranormalcy' in the protagonist's life, and everything goes south from there. Literally south. They leave England and go to France, and nothing good ever seems to happen in France. Why does she go to France? One might well wonder. It's because her wine connoisseur, yoga master, Oxford fellow, French and vampire boyfriend takes her there. Edward- er, I mean Matthew becomes her very protective vampire husband and, in spite of the fact that his list of superlative credentials continues to grow, this superman's top priority seems to be feeding her and giving her foot massages. Apparently he has nothing better to do. Ah, ladies, what an impossible standard we set for our heroes. Please remember that next time you cuss out a model for being too skinny. My biggest problem with this story isn't the love interest, though he's pretty difficult to stomach; it's the conflict development around the protagonist. Diana, our heroine, suddenly gets what amounts to unlimited power about halfway into the book, power which she sometimes uses and some times does not. Why? This is not clear. The weak explanation for this is that she is panicked on some occasions and uncertain on others. This contrasts jarringly with the fact that Superman continually tells her how brave and decisive she is, and she does occasionally act bravely and decisively. She seems to have sudden attacks of damsel-in-distress, an affliction which does not follow from her other behaviors or her internal monologue. It's understandable why the author has to do this; she's made her protagonist omnipotent. Without these character anomalies, the text has no conflict and the plot is broken. However, with these anomalies, the main character is broken. This book is fundamentally flawed. What I did love about this book were the descriptions of the texts and the settings. The author does a lovely job bringing to life the various settings and props of her story. The text suggest that quite a substantial amount of research provides the foundation for this story, and I hope that's true. Not being a scholar of medieval manuscripts, I don't know. Nothing stood out as a glaring error to me, and what little bit I did recognize meshed with what I knew. The book is clearly set up for a sequel, probably a trilogy. In future installments I hope the author puts some limits and rules on the protagonist's power, especially if they explain some of her erratic choices in the first novel. It's too late to fix the saccharine plasticity of the protagonist and her man, but perhaps this is targeting just romance readers who are used to slapping Edward Cullen's romantic perfection onto Fabio's physique and sliding a couple of PhD's and a stock portfolio into his back pocket. It could have been so much more than that. I would certainly consider reading a Harkness book again. It's obvious from this book that the woman knows how to write. I'd just prefer a little less perfection in the central characters. ...more I tried really hard, but wow this book was boring. I think it reminded me way too much of The Historian , which was the biggest waste of 900+ pages I've ever read. I think it's because I've done way too much academic research in my 20 years of schooling to ever find it remotely entertaining. I think the part where the witches, vampires, demons, etc. do yoga together pretty much killed it for me. (Okay, it's probably more of a calm indifference, but had I wasted any more time this would be more fitt I tried really hard, but wow this book was boring. I think it reminded me way too much of The Historian , which was the biggest waste of 900+ pages I've ever read. I think it's because I've done way too much academic research in my 20 years of schooling to ever find it remotely entertaining. I think the part where the witches, vampires, demons, etc. do yoga together pretty much killed it for me. (Okay, it's probably more of a calm indifference, but had I wasted any more time this would be more fitting.) ...more First of all, I thought this book was fantastic and I CANNOT wait for the second in the series because the ending of the book, I won't give details, has you CONSTANTLY WONDERING and yearning for more. Though it doesn't beat the Harry Potter series (and nothing ever will), it sure is up there in the running with my favorites. Have I found a new series after Potter? Well, I won't get too carried away, but this book is one of my favorites. I have only two complaints about this book. My first compla First of all, I thought this book was fantastic and I CANNOT wait for the second in the series because the ending of the book, I won't give details, has you CONSTANTLY WONDERING and yearning for more. Though it doesn't beat the Harry Potter series (and nothing ever will), it sure is up there in the running with my favorites. Have I found a new series after Potter? Well, I won't get too carried away, but this book is one of my favorites. I have only two complaints about this book. My first complaint is that the beginning/mid-middle was slow, until Matthew came into play, and during select amounts of scientific detail. The more the book went on, the better it got, and the more I couldn't stop reading. I felt like I was in a rut during the middle, but that one thing happened and I kept on trucking, thankfully. The second is the fact that Diana Bishop, having a P.h.D, seemed immature and naive (during a couple parts of the book). But, I'm sure she will grow as a person throughout the next two books. These complaints are STRICTLY my opinion. I have read many reviews regarding this book and at some point they irritate me: many readers relate this book to the \"Twilight Saga,\" however, that idea is wonky because the book deals with witches, demons and vampires -- with a history and past intertwining all of them together. Yes, there are some points in the book where the romance seems a bit \"Twilight-y.\" However, that was not the author's intention and I'm sure I just took it that way because I had read Twilight first (the only vampire books I have ever read, and probably the only ones I'll EVER compare other vampire stories to. Sad, I KNOW!). If you've read Twilight, you may or may not compare the romance to it, but I feel that Diana and Matthew's relationship was far less awkward, more natural, and sweet. I would NOT compare the actual idea and \"being\" of a Vampire, because Ms. Harkness does an EXCELLENT and far better job at describing a vampire and how they function. I wish Ms. Meyer would have taken some advice from our dear old Deborah. Moving on from my soap-box, the book was fascinating. The author included so much historic detail that I, a fellow historian, also love and strive to learn about. Her explanations and enormous amounts of detail provided awesome imagery that really helped me read and cherish the book. I loved it, the characters, and the complete storyline; and until the next book, I will be hanging on by a thin thread. Thanks for reading! :) ...more Even now, a few weeks later, and when some of the details have become a little fuzzy, I can't stop thinking about this book. I love many different genres of books, but books like this really get me excited; they take me out of myself, to a world that my rational brain tells me doesn't exist, but which my heart whispers could be right under my nose. I stayed up until after 1am two nights in a row to read more of this book and was even almost late back to work at lunchtime, because I was so complet Even now, a few weeks later, and when some of the details have become a little fuzzy, I can't stop thinking about this book. I love many different genres of books, but books like this really get me excited; they take me out of myself, to a world that my rational brain tells me doesn't exist, but which my heart whispers could be right under my nose. I stayed up until after 1am two nights in a row to read more of this book and was even almost late back to work at lunchtime, because I was so completely absorbed in it. I even forwent an evening meal to finish it. A Discovery of Witches is one of the most enjoyable books that I have read in a very long time and I loved the feeling of being completely submerged in a different life and a different world. Matthew Clairmont hits Edward Cullen out of the ball park as far as I'm concerned and I don't think I have swooned over a male character so much since Mr Darcy. Like all greatly likable male characters, he was far from perfect, but these flaws just added more dimensions to him and I could imagine myself enjoying the challenge of loving such a man! In truth, he is a glorious creation! I really liked Diana and admired her verve and athleticism, so different from my own book-worm, indoors-y nature. I am also fascinated by the idea of being a historian of science and feel like I was cheated out of the belief that I could be anything as a teenager! I really enjoyed the way her relationship with Matthew developed and although the perve in me might have wished for a little less curtailing of their intimate moments, they were still lovely to read about. If you haven't read this book yet, then you haven't been introduced to the wonders of 'bundling'! :-) Reading this book was so satisfying and I felt that I was getting just the right mix of romance, adventure, history, character development and magic. I don't know how I will contain myself until the release of the next book, as I am quite apprehensive about the \"trip\" Matthew and Diana embarked upon at the end of the book. If you have a taste for the supernatural tempered by real life choices and adult dilemmas, then you are in for a treat of the best kind in reading this book. ...more my gosh, i really wanted to like this one. it looks good. it is nice and big and so i imagined getting lost with it for days. the subject matter is enticing. even the cover looks appealing - elegant and mysterious and sorta bold. but unfortunately this book is just a big, perpetually flaccid penis. it looks good, like it could be a fun time, but nothing is happening, it's limp, it's useless. hmmm, where do i even start? this was an experience where a lot of bored sighs found life. i got about hal my gosh, i really wanted to like this one. it looks good. it is nice and big and so i imagined getting lost with it for days. the subject matter is enticing. even the cover looks appealing - elegant and mysterious and sorta bold. but unfortunately this book is just a big, perpetually flaccid penis. it looks good, like it could be a fun time, but nothing is happening, it's limp, it's useless. hmmm, where do i even start? this was an experience where a lot of bored sighs found life. i got about halfway through and just gave up, because: - this is a thin little Urban Fantasy & Romance that has been tricked up to be a kind of literary romantic horror novel. i shouldn't have believed the hype, its comparisons to other recent \"literary horror\" novels like The Passage or Zone One. it is nothing like those two. now i don't mind little Urban Fantasy & Romance novels. but please, promotional team for Discovery, don't front. don't make this novel out to be what it clearly is not. - the repetitive scenes were abysmally boring in their, well, repetitiveness. how many fuckin times do i have to read about our tedious heroine going to the library and finding that a bunch of preternaturals are stalking her? apparently a dozen or so times. i kid you not, the sheer number of these scenes were ridiculous, they verged on being a kind of Comedy of the Absurd. Harkness, were you being paid by the word or something? - the trials and tribulations of our heroine and her paramour were a snorefest. oh poor angsty wittle witch doesn't want to be a witch, she just wants to be a regular human! boo hoo hoo! oh poor angsty wittle vampire has such mixed feelings about having mixed feelings for the wittle witch. boo hoo hoo! what hard lives these preternaturals have! i'm not sure i've seen witches & vampires portrayed in such a boring fasion... i got more thrills from the silly Beautiful Darkness series. c'mon Harkness, where's the nuance? where's the adventure? for chrissakes, even the romance sucked. BORED NOW. i tried to like this one, i really tried. i tried looking at it from different angles, i tried to come at it at different times - perhaps it was my mood, right? i focused on the fact that this was such a nice, big novel... surely it must eventually get good, if i was patient and understanding. surely it would harden into something that could give me at least a little bit of excitment. but nope, it remained flaccid and i just had to give up on it. there are a lot of other big books out there for me to enjoy. ...more In A Discovery of Witches , we clueless humans have no idea that we share our world with witches, vampires and daemons (creatures whose manic bursts of creativity result in some of the world's greatest artistic works). Isn't that exciting? One would certainly think so. So, what kind of shenanigans does this preternatural lot get up to while we live our ordinary lives? Well . . . Behold the books that shall be read! Thrill to the revelation that trips to the library will be made time and time again In A Discovery of Witches , we clueless humans have no idea that we share our world with witches, vampires and daemons (creatures whose manic bursts of creativity result in some of the world's greatest artistic works). Isn't that exciting? One would certainly think so. So, what kind of shenanigans does this preternatural lot get up to while we live our ordinary lives? Well . . . Behold the books that shall be read! Thrill to the revelation that trips to the library will be made time and time again! Gasp as cups of warm tea are made and consumed! Swoon as vampires are repeatedly described as smelling of baked goods! And grip the edge of your seat for the most bizarre yoga-scene in the history of the written word! That's right, folks. Vampires, witches, and daemons aren't like you and me--in fact, our lives are infinitely more interesting than theirs. Seriously, what the hell is this? The best I can tell is that it's Twilight for grown-ups. And I can't believe I'm going to say this, but here it goes: Twilight is better. Suddenly vampires playing baseball during thunderstorms seems down right genius compared to vampires attending a supernatural yoga class. You want to drain all the sex appeal right out of your vampiric leading man? Just mention him doing some peculiar yoga move where he seems to be holding himself up vertically from the floor by nothing but his ear. And then prattle on about how he's cold. And always has his hands stuffed in his charcoal trousers. And gets ridiculously enraged every time someone mentions blood because . . . he . . . might . . . not . . . be . . . able . . . to . . . control . . . himself (despite living a relatively normal life around humans for 1,500 years and seeming to need little in the way of sanguine sustenance). And how he maintains control of himself by always grasping the talisman he wears beneath his some-shade-of-grey sweater. And then have him ply the witch he is inexplicably drawn to with hundreds of bottles of wine and query her as to what every single one tastes like. Oh, ho! And the witch! Now there's a live wire! Diana Bishop spends her days running, rowing, yoga-ing (?), and reading. Oh, and never using her magic because she wants to be just like us. Well, actually, she does use her magic every now and then, but only when it's really important. Like fixing her washing machine or getting a book off of a really high shelf. But other than that, it's all ixnay on the magic-ay. At 200 pages in, I decided I couldn't stomach it any more. After all, up to that point, I had already been treated to a baker's dozen of the same basic scene: --Diana goes to the library --creatures are there; they pretend to read so they can watch her read all day, but they do so in a really creeptastic and menacing way, man --Matthew, the vampire, goes to the library and pretends to read so he can watch them watching her watch a book and protect her in case one decides to, oh, I don't know, nick her with a really nasty papercut or something --Diana and Matthew later go and consume a meal and beverages and talk ad nauseum about food to the point where an epicurean would offer them both a hot cuppa shut the fuck up --Matthew will get angry with Diana, she'll apologize, and he'll settle his ass down Round and round they go, where do they stop? Nobody knows! Oh, wait. I do! At the library! It's like freaking Groundhog Day without Bill Murray. And Groundhog Day ain't shit without Bill Murray. And neither is A Discovery of Witches . When I decided I had a life to live, Matthew was fervently explaining how daemons, witches, and vampires might be going extinct! To which I can only ask, so what's the problem? Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads This book. Have you ever liked something almost against your will? Something that encompasses roughly half of the things you hate in reference to said thing? Something that makes you scratch your head in wonder, b/c you can\u2019t figure out why on earth you aren\u2019t terribly bothered by those detested things in this situation? Welcome to my life. This book has: 1. What can be construed as insta-love . Matthew and Diana are drawn to each other from the moment they meet, BUT it\u2019s so s Reviewed by: Rabid Reads This book. Have you ever liked something almost against your will? Something that encompasses roughly half of the things you hate in reference to said thing? Something that makes you scratch your head in wonder, b/c you can\u2019t figure out why on earth you aren\u2019t terribly bothered by those detested things in this situation? Welcome to my life. This book has: 1. What can be construed as insta-love . Matthew and Diana are drawn to each other from the moment they meet, BUT it\u2019s so subtle that you aren\u2019t sure that\u2019s what is happening. And that\u2019s probably why it gets a pass. I never really thought about it (before this book forced me too), but it\u2019s the things that insta-love seems to be comprised of, rather than the insta-love itself , that I take issue with\u2014fluttery eyelashes, wild proclamations of ardent, enduring (but wholly untried) love, and the accompanying false sense of urgency. P-U-K-E. Get a room, already. And preferably AFTER the inevitable danger has passed. But none of those things are an issue here. By the time it becomes obvious that, yes, these two feel more for each other than trepidation and annoyance, enough time has elapsed to almost warrant the depth of emotion, and the rest can be chalked up to fate, animal instinct, mating imperative, etc. 2. A super, special snowflake who denies her super, special snowflakeness . Not only is Diana the last in a powerful line of matriarchal witches, her father was a powerful warlock in his own right. So powerful that a union between her mother and father was strongly discouraged by the powers that be. Mom and Dad said, \u201cScrew you, hippies!\u201d and Diana was the result. But when her parents were killed when Diana was seven, she assumes their deaths were the result of their abilities and refuses to have anything to do with magic. B/c that always works out so well. *sighs* But again, it gets a pass. Diana is being just as ridiculous as every MC who tries to ignore their gifts, but this time you can\u2019t help but be sympathetic. She\u2019s not being obstinate simply to be a pain in the arse. She understandably believes that nothing good can come from using magic, so she\u2019s not going to do it. And that\u2019s not the only reason it gets a pass, but I can\u2019t tell you the other one. Suffice it to say, there\u2019s a darn good reason Diana isn\u2019t using magic, and that reason is not even remotely her fault. 3. Super, secret information withholding . And this is perhaps the one I have the hardest time with. I cannot stand it when someone in a position of authority, older, more experienced, etc. unilaterally decides who gets to know what. HATE it.<\u2014\u2014I\u2019m audibly grinding my teeth right now. But Matthew . . . it\u2019s kind of the same thing that happens when I read historical romance. Am I overly fond of a woman\u2019s only option being to marry and marry well, have children, keep house? NO. I\u2019m NOT. But that\u2019s the way things were, and getting mad about it isn\u2019t going to change anything, and besides, Dukes are HAWT. So is Matthew. AND he\u2019s a 1500 year old vampire, so he kind falls under that same umbrella, and really , he means well. I got frustrated with him a few times, but it was obvious that he was trying, and I imagine it\u2019d be pretty darn hard to attempt major behavior modifications to habits 1500 years in the making. So yeah. Yet another pass. The good news is that having talked it out, I\u2019m no longer banging my head against a wall. I now know why I like this book despite the major book peeves lurking around every corner. And besides those peeves getting passes, A Discovery of Witches is just entertaining. It might have taken me awhile to like Diana, but I instantly respected her, and I was as gone for Matthew as she was the moment he showed up. In the LIBRARY. At OXFORD. Lots of bookish fun in this book. Also\u2014while I have no complaints about the pacing in the front 75% of the book, the last 25% is just riveting. The second that Matthew and Diana show up at her childhood home, I could not put the book down. The house is sentient and highly opinionated. It\u2019s also full of the ghosts of Bishops past, also opinionated. A couple of new secondaries show up, one of which is absolutely darling. GAH. This book is awesome, just read it. Highly recommended. ...more Original Rating: 5 Stars Re-read Rating: 3.5 Stars We find our protagonist, Diana Bishop, in the Selden End of the Bodleian Library researching alchemy. As a witch, she is trying to find a root to the three magical races (with the other two being daemons and vampires). In walks Matthew Clairmont, vampire and obvious love interest, who is also a scientist studying blood stuffs (obviously). I\u2019ll be honest; both times I skipped over the romance aspects of this book because that stuff just doesn\u2019t int Original Rating: 5 Stars Re-read Rating: 3.5 Stars We find our protagonist, Diana Bishop, in the Selden End of the Bodleian Library researching alchemy. As a witch, she is trying to find a root to the three magical races (with the other two being daemons and vampires). In walks Matthew Clairmont, vampire and obvious love interest, who is also a scientist studying blood stuffs (obviously). I\u2019ll be honest; both times I skipped over the romance aspects of this book because that stuff just doesn\u2019t interest me. I also got tired of Matthew and his maman Isabeau. Sorry, it just kept hearing someone speaking fake French whenever I read him referring to her as that. Like Shelby , I think that I just wasn\u2019t as enamored with it on the second time around. Having read through to the end of the series already , I was looking for little hints I may have missed the first time but I didn\u2019t notice anything major that jumped out at me (Rowling spoiled us for that so much that this automatically becomes an instinct when we revisit books after a series ends). ...more Deborah Harkness' debut novel, A Discovery of Witches: A Novel, is amazing. I was drawn in from the first and did not want to put it down. It's like a mature Twilight (The Twilight Saga, Book 1) meets The Da Vinci Code. The characters are interesting and complex, the story is exciting without being too ambitious or overcomplicated. The book held me spellbound and is responsible for a few hours of lost sleep. It's an historical-supernatural-romance-adventure-mystery--my favorite genres wrapped in Deborah Harkness' debut novel, A Discovery of Witches: A Novel, is amazing. I was drawn in from the first and did not want to put it down. It's like a mature Twilight (The Twilight Saga, Book 1) meets The Da Vinci Code. The characters are interesting and complex, the story is exciting without being too ambitious or overcomplicated. The book held me spellbound and is responsible for a few hours of lost sleep. It's an historical-supernatural-romance-adventure-mystery--my favorite genres wrapped into an exceptionally good book. Diana Bishop is not going to use her magic--at least, that's what she keeps telling herself. She is the last in a long line of powerful witches, with a father as powerful as her mother. However, having lost her parents when she was seven years old has turned her away from her heritage and her magic. While researching alchemical manuscripts in the Bodleian Library, she comes in contact with a volume that reaches out to her magic. Panicked, she returns the book to the stacks, but it is too late--word is out that she has discovered the lost Ashmole 782 and now all species of creatures are after her. Enter Matthew Clairmont, renowned scientist and vampire. He has been searching for Ashmole 782 for centuries and is determined to retrieve the book Diana has recalled. He feels drawn to Diana, feeling the need to protect her from the other creatures, despite witches and vampires being notorious separatists. They are thrown into an uneasy friendship when the worlds of witches, vampires and daemons descend upon Diana, all looking for the manuscript. A Discovery of Witches: A Novel is one of the best books I've read in quite a while. It's clearly written to have a sequel, possibly more than one, and I am anxiously awaiting the next book. I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading. Follow my reviews at readerbarbara at blogspot dot com ...more Redeemed only through a nice use of language. Initial assessment: Harlequin romance meets Twilight. Most irritating similarity to Twilight: they discover all sorts of ways to be physically intimate without intercourse. Annoyingest magical quality: a witch that claims she doesn't want to use her powers and has spent yeeeears attempting to ignore her powers, \"slips up\" and uses said powers to get a book that's out of reach on a high shelf. Yes, that's how strong her moral determination is--looking Redeemed only through a nice use of language. Initial assessment: Harlequin romance meets Twilight. Most irritating similarity to Twilight: they discover all sorts of ways to be physically intimate without intercourse. Annoyingest magical quality: a witch that claims she doesn't want to use her powers and has spent yeeeears attempting to ignore her powers, \"slips up\" and uses said powers to get a book that's out of reach on a high shelf. Yes, that's how strong her moral determination is--looking for a ladder trumps principle. Stereotypes annoy me, and A Discovery of Witches is full of romantic stereotypes. If it starts to feel like you've read it before, it's because you have. Bookish orphaned heroine meets dark, brooding man. Initially annoyed by his arrogance, she segues quickly into accommodation, and then lust. Brooding man finds his thoughts preoccupied with her quiet beauty, with something noticeably sparkly about her, and briefly runs away from their building relationship to come to terms with his past. Heroine and hero reunite, enjoy brief interlude, attend the most snort-worthy yoga class ever described in literature, then unite to defend their love against others. We are supposed to rave because it's a vampire and witch, and somehow that makes it all different. Except more than being vampire and witch, they are really doctor-geneticist and historian. I ended up skimming last half of the book just because my book OCD can't stand not knowing the end to a plot. Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2012/1... ...more This could have been a great book. The series has a lot going for it. The author has achieved a perfect level of magic combined with mystery and academia. Sounds strange doesn\u2019t it? But this is very much in a similar vein to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. The characters explore libraries (yay libraries!) to gain knowledge about the supernatural. The protagonist comes across a very unusual book, a book of magic. The tension is here very early on, the narrative drive is here very on, though it all goe This could have been a great book. The series has a lot going for it. The author has achieved a perfect level of magic combined with mystery and academia. Sounds strange doesn\u2019t it? But this is very much in a similar vein to Buffy the Vampire Slayer. The characters explore libraries (yay libraries!) to gain knowledge about the supernatural. The protagonist comes across a very unusual book, a book of magic. The tension is here very early on, the narrative drive is here very on, though it all goes downhill as the story progresses. She drew me with the enchanting mysteries of magic and books: \u201cThe leather-bound volume was nothing remarkable. To an ordinary historian, it would have looked no different from hundreds of other manuscripts in Oxford\u2019s Bodleian Library, ancient and worn. But I knew there was something odd about it from the moment I collected it.\u201d So we have a solid opening, and a solid plot, but the author goes and fucks it all up with a terrible romance plot and her poorly written characters. The protagonist Diana Bishop is a witch coming out of the magic closet; she also likes to go rowing, which the author tells us at every opportunity. She happens to be a Dr in science history. So, theoretically speaking, she\u2019s a smart woman. She quickly falls in love with a mystery man she meets at the library; he is shrouded in darkness and secrecy. It\u2019s quite a romantic encounter; he appears to be something much more than an ordinary guy. She becomes enamoured with him. Matthew de Clairmont is an ancient vampire who is also a genetic researcher (amongst other things.) We hear lots about his prowess as a vampire, but never actually see it. I don\u2019t really know what he\u2019s capable if. When there was a chance for him to use his abilities, and demonstrate the strength of vampires in this world, he stands back and does nothing. He becomes a piece of furniture and just watches the action. Diana doesn\u2019t seem to mind though; she sticks with this gaping idiot throughout. She\u2019s not even bothered that he watched her sleep like some creepy sex pest. We later learn that he practices yoga, which just ruins the entire vampire image. How can this guy ever be considered threatening after that? He loses all of the seductive powers of vampirism and enters the realms of weird. There are some good things about this book. The idea of magic behind a world of fact and academic is great. The protagonist goes on to discover what she is capable of in a tale of magic oozing with possibilities. But, these possibilities are never really fulfilled. It\u2019s all about the romance and her dependency on Matthew. She follows him like a little lost dog, for some reason. I wanted to read about a woman who learns about herself and the world through her own willpower not because of the help of an apparently powerful vampire nerd. This book is quite unique, I\u2019ll give it that. The narrative is not told in entirely simple prose; there are suggestions of academic language, which, I suppose, reflect the nature of investigating the mystery book found at the beginning. The main success of this book was its ability to keep me reading. Obviously, I had a few problems with it, but I still wanted to know the answers to the mysteries Harkness posed. It kept me in suspense by not revealing what the characters are completely capable of e.g Diana\u2019s powers. I know there is going to be much, much, more. The room for character development and new plots is huge. The next book could go anywhere. And because of that I read it with the hope that the characters would improve and that the mysteries would remain. Without the libraries, mystery and books, this book would have been a complete disaster rather than a partial one. ...more A Discovery of Witches is a vampire romance. Let me say that again. A Discovery of Witches is a Vampire Romance. Oh sure the title mentions \u2018witches\u2019 instead of \u2018vampires\u2019 or other vampire clich\u00e9s like blood, darkness, or night. It has witchy symbols on the cover and the synopsis calls it \u201cequal parts history and magic, romance and suspense\u201d. But don\u2019t be deceived, this is a vampire romance. If you don\u2019t like vampire romances, then this book is not for you. You say you like vampire romances? So do A Discovery of Witches is a vampire romance. Let me say that again. A Discovery of Witches is a Vampire Romance. Oh sure the title mentions \u2018witches\u2019 instead of \u2018vampires\u2019 or other vampire clich\u00e9s like blood, darkness, or night. It has witchy symbols on the cover and the synopsis calls it \u201cequal parts history and magic, romance and suspense\u201d. But don\u2019t be deceived, this is a vampire romance. If you don\u2019t like vampire romances, then this book is not for you. You say you like vampire romances? So do I! But I\u2019ve got a little more news for you before you decide to read this book. There\u2019s no boinking in A Discovery of Witches. There is kissing and...enough other stuff to freaking make a reader hopeful . But no boinkage. A Discovery of Witches is a boinkless non-YA vampire romance, which is as rare a creature as the ancient texts Diana studies. If you need your vampy heroes to get lucky, then this book is not for you. Still around? Really? Alrighty then, brass tacks. To my boinkage-loving surprise, I actually enjoyed this book a bunch. I found myself staying up late and jonesing for the 30 minutes of reading time I get during lunch. It is that absorbing. The first half is an interesting mixture of vampire romance and Dan Brownish academic-searches-for-ancient-treasure-despite-opposition-from-secret-society mystery. I loved the Oxford setting and supernatural creatures. Characters are thoroughly fleshed out with several backstories, I assume as setup for future books in the series. This adds to the page count, but since the backstories are delightful little historical vignettes I enjoyed them nonetheless. It\u2019s the second half of the book that really drew me in, as it is mostly devoted to the romance. If you\u2019re an emotion junkie like me you\u2019ll have trouble putting the book down after you hit that halfway mark. However (here is why I believe this book gets so many 1 and 2 star ratings), our Oxford and Yale educated PhD heroine loses IQ points as she falls in love. We\u2019re told constantly how smart, brave, and intimidating she is, but those traits are inadequately demonstrated. It leads to this crap: \u201cEven putting cups on a tray, you look formidable.\u201d (barf) The Bishop house saved this book in my eyes. Just as Diana was becoming too much of a ditsy damsel in distress, she arrives at the Bishop house and falls into her element. This is where she worms her way back in to my good graces. All hail the Bishop house! It\u2019s my favorite character, and the most fabulous part of the book. I hear there\u2019s a movie in works, and I will watch it solely to see how they portray the Bishop house. Despite Diana\u2019s annoying degradation of IQ, reading A Discovery of Witches is an enjoyable experience. I\u2019m looking forward to Book 2 (more Bishop house, please!). 4 stars. Now I sooo wish I had a way to track how many people stopped reading after \u201cno boinking\u201d! ...more I read this book back in 2011. I marked it five stars. I put it on my favorites list. I'm hunting 2011 Shelby down to kick her ass. I wanted so much to enjoy this. I'm reading it with some of the bestest people..I just give up. The wording..the insta love..the clueless female. Just can't. I sorry. Book you got kicked off the favorite list. A Discovery of a Crappy Book. This book is terrible. Why oh why were the stupid witches discovered. Here is the plot: Day One. I went to the library. I am a witch; he is a vampire. I shouldn't love him. But he is so cold and I am so hot for him. I had lunch and did some yoga. Day Two. I went to the library. Some people may or may not have been there, and they may or may not have been magical. I am a witch; he is a vampire. I shouldn't love him. But he is so cold and I am so hot for him. I had lunch A Discovery of a Crappy Book. This book is terrible. Why oh why were the stupid witches discovered. Here is the plot: Day One. I went to the library. I am a witch; he is a vampire. I shouldn't love him. But he is so cold and I am so hot for him. I had lunch and did some yoga. Day Two. I went to the library. Some people may or may not have been there, and they may or may not have been magical. I am a witch; he is a vampire. I shouldn't love him. But he is so cold and I am so hot for him. I had lunch and did some yoga. Day Three. I went to the library. Some people may or may not have been there, and they may or may not have been magical. Today's book glowed when I touched it. I am a witch. He is a vampire. I shouldn't love him. But he is so cold and I am so hot for him. I had lunch and did some yoga. This is seriously like the first 200 pages of the book. The rest doesn't get any better. ...more 2.5 stars Hmmm. At first, I really thought this was going to be at least a 4 star book. It was interesting and full of detail ! Then suddenly, it wasn't. Wasn't interesting, that is. Oh, it was still full of detail, don't worry. Details about how they appreciatively sniffed wine . Details about different kinds of tea . Details about the layouts of old buildings. Details about rugs and furniture . And just when I started to think I couldn't take it anymore...MORE WINE AND TEA! Yes, yes! I get it! She likes 2.5 stars Hmmm. At first, I really thought this was going to be at least a 4 star book. It was interesting and full of detail ! Then suddenly, it wasn't. Wasn't interesting, that is. Oh, it was still full of detail, don't worry. Details about how they appreciatively sniffed wine . Details about different kinds of tea . Details about the layouts of old buildings. Details about rugs and furniture . And just when I started to think I couldn't take it anymore...MORE WINE AND TEA! Yes, yes! I get it! She likes tea ! He likes wine ! After 400 pages I don't give a shit what it smelled like! Enough already! * deep breath * Toward the end, the story picked up a bit and started moving forward again. But it was too little, too late. Wait. Let me rephrase that, it was too much , too late. Suddenly there were huge info dumps, which would have been great had they been spaced out over the entire book. Everything that should have been happening/discovered/talked about in the middle of the book ( 'cause it was tea time! ) was crunched into the last part of the story. It looks like this is a trilogy, but I seriously doubt I'm going to attempt to read any more of these. It looks like the author did a lot of research to bring this book to life, but it just wasn't for me. I'd recommend this to someone who enjoys slow-paced books with a lot of attention to detail . ...more I had a hard time deciding how to rate this book. The plot moved beautifully, and the author has clearly put a load of effort into researching many different worlds. This book has that particular quality that makes you want to finish it all in one go. The biggest problem I had was with the main character- Diana Bishop. She starts out as an admirable, independent woman, entirely capable of making her own decisions and standing her ground. Unfortunately, by the time the book ends, she's turned into I had a hard time deciding how to rate this book. The plot moved beautifully, and the author has clearly put a load of effort into researching many different worlds. This book has that particular quality that makes you want to finish it all in one go. The biggest problem I had was with the main character- Diana Bishop. She starts out as an admirable, independent woman, entirely capable of making her own decisions and standing her ground. Unfortunately, by the time the book ends, she's turned into Bella Swan. While the first half of the book was engaging, once the romantic aspect started to develop, I was reminded of the Twilight saga where the lead couple seems to care of nothing but themselves, and expects any and every other character in the plot to put their own lives on the line for them and the special snowflake that is their love. The premise of the book looks so huge and promising at the beginning, but the end reads a lot like Breaking Dawn, in many ways. ...more UPDATE AUGUST 2016: This was my 4th time reading this book and I enjoyed it more than ever! No doubts about this being my most favorite paranormal story of all times. My Diana and Matthew: \u201cIt begins with absence and desire. It begins with blood and fear. It begins with a discovery of witches.\" I am not exaggerating when I say that this is the most fascinating paranormal story I have ever read in my life. Discovery of Witches is splendid combination of history, science, romance and action. This book UPDATE AUGUST 2016: This was my 4th time reading this book and I enjoyed it more than ever! No doubts about this being my most favorite paranormal story of all times. My Diana and Matthew: \u201cIt begins with absence and desire. It begins with blood and fear. It begins with a discovery of witches.\" I am not exaggerating when I say that this is the most fascinating paranormal story I have ever read in my life. Discovery of Witches is splendid combination of history, science, romance and action. This book is full of knowledge and interesting facts wrapped up in beautiful paranormal story. Discovery of Witches is kind of book that will make you fly over the pages, eager to find out what will happen next and than make you feel like re-reading it all over again right after you finish. \u201cWill this ever stop?\u201d I asked quietly. \u201cThis feeling when I\u2019m with you\u2014as if I\u2019m fully alive for the first time.\u201d Discovery of Witches is story about independant witch Diana and enigmatic vampire Matthew. And I am happy to say that heroine in this novel is no damsell in distress complaining all the time. On the contrary, she is more than able to take care of herself. And I absolutely loved it. A must-read for all lovers of smart and paranormal! MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG Reading Is My Breathing ...more The following picture shows how I feel about A Discovery of Witches as a whole: (Link: http://www.dannyschulz.com/2011/05/26... ) I want to like this book, the concepts and the magic system are bold, refreshing and awesome, but sadly awesome concepts cannot save a book from: (1) Mary Sue main characters. And I'm talking about a Mary Sue who can easily put Bella Swan from Twilight into total shame... Meet Diana Bishop, a history professor and leading expert of ancient texts, she was born to a pair of The following picture shows how I feel about A Discovery of Witches as a whole: (Link: http://www.dannyschulz.com/2011/05/26... ) I want to like this book, the concepts and the magic system are bold, refreshing and awesome, but sadly awesome concepts cannot save a book from: (1) Mary Sue main characters. And I'm talking about a Mary Sue who can easily put Bella Swan from Twilight into total shame... Meet Diana Bishop, a history professor and leading expert of ancient texts, she was born to a pair of powerful witches, both of her late parents were from respectful witch families with long history tagging behind. At young age, she showed promises to become as powerful a witch as her late mother, and she was also much smarter than the other kids her age. All of these details are told to us from a first person's POV, at the first 10 pages of the book. The Mary Sue alarm bells were ringing nonstop when I read those 10 pages. And Matthew, the love interest and Diana's boyfriend/husband in the later parts of the book, is an ageless vampire. Not only he's drop dead gorgeous, he is rich, he is ages older than the heroine, he is also well learned and irresistible to all the ladies...does he sound just like someone else we'd already met before? Oh yes...Edward Cullen. How could I forget... (2) Dull storytelling. And the book is overly long. I read the first 200 pages of the book, and believe me, nothing happens . I'm serious, instead of actual plot development , the book is filled with descriptions of every meal Diana had, every trip to the library, her excise routines, her dinner date with the vampire, her yoga classes. Thing got so bad to a point I wrote the following complaint in my reading progress: \"if the author talks once more time about what the MC has for dinner and if she wrote one more of the MC's trip to the fucking library (and I swear I love libraries), I will throw the book away! Talking about yoga, in this book vampires, witches and demons are doing yoga in the same workshop. Can thing get even more boring than this!? Call me narrow-minded, but I just can't live with this vampires+witches+demons yoga scene haunting my mind, especially when this yoga workshop is supposed to be such a great spiritual experience and a gesture of peace among supernatural creatures. *groans* (3) Vampires, witches and demons are sworn enemies, just because of reasons. You know, reasons. Why those supernatural creatures hate each other so much? We never know, no background story whatsoever. But seriously, if they didn't happen to hate each other so much, there would be no 'forbidden' romance between Diana the witch and Matthew the vampire. Plain and simple. (4) Badly written 'forbidden' romance between a vampire and a witch, a romance which is as good and 'romantic' as watching two pieces of wood banging against each other. If Matthew liked Diana to Roman Goddess Diana just one more time, I swear I'm going to lose it. Not to mention, a vampire bossing a woman around in the name of 'I'm protecting you', grasping her and refusing to let go even after she had already told him to stop, is not romantic. (5) The villains being flat and they have no personality and motive other than being evil...for reasons. You know, reasons. (6) The 'good guys' are good due to reasons. You know, reasons! Sometime, the good guys also do a lot of dull things. For more than a few times, I just can't believe Matthew, a 1000+ years old vampire would handle the crisis the way he did. (7) Had I mentioned not only the heroine is a massive Mary Sue, she is also an ignorant, arrogant cow; and she's also the perfect example of Too Stupid To Live? I told you Diana is a powerful witch, right? I'm sure you won't ever forget this fact because the author had been very in-your-face about Diana being the most powerful witch alive throughout the book. So what had Diana done with her power? Had she learnt to control her magic and tried to do good with it? Nap. Instead she sat on her butt and refused to learn how to use her magic, even when her auntie was more than willing to teach her. All because Diana's parents died in a failed magical ritual. I'm sorry? Isn't it more a reason to learn how to keep your magic under control? Plus, Diana also chose to be ignorant about the history of her own kind and the world of supernatural creatures. She chose not to listen when her auntie tried to teach her. I'm sorry? But what kind of idiot would do this when she lived in a world where vampires, witches and demons are hiding among human society in an uneasy peace? Why is such ignorance ever be allowed among supernatural creatures? I can't think of anything more dangerous than an untrained but powerful witch walking around when she is fully capable of unconsciously attracting lighting and burning a hole on the carpet. What would happen if her magic went out of control? People may get hurt, you know. But in this book, no one seems to care. (8) Had I mentioned not only the vampires don't have fangs, they have hardly killed anyone *on screen*? Don't even get me started with the vampires in this book, I think Mathew's mother is the only respectable vampire in the story, mostly because she actually hunts to get herself fed and when she lost her husband, she went after her husband's killers instead of crying and moaning like a weakling. (9) The ending is one of the worst endings I've read in the recent years. (view spoiler) [They travel back in time so Diana can learn how to be a powerful witch by learning from all those great witches in the past!!!! (hide spoiler) ] What kind of ending is that!? (10) The plot is messy, and is weighted down by far too many randomly thrown in backstories. I admit it's nice for us to finally say goodbye to Diana's trips to the library and her enjoyment with eating and drinking, by the second part of the book. However, in replace of Diana's daily activities, we are treated with other characters' seemingly endless backstories. You see? They are immortals right? So of course each of them has a life story to share! (11) Many of my GR friends are aware of my undying hatred toward the godawful Tiger's Saga (by Collen Houck), and I can tell you guys A Discovery of Witches is just as awful as Tiger's Saga, but in a totally different way. This book is filled with endless references on history, myth and culture, mixing with pseudo-science and pseudo-history. All of these are fine with me, if only the story itself isn't so mind-breakingly boring and the main characters aren't so dull and the romance isn't so annoying. (12) Some people say this book is ' Twilight for adults' Well...in a sense, this book is Twilight for adults, if adults enjoyed stupid romances and lusting after picture-perfect male vampires.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more What a surprising find. Sure, I expected a decent urban fantasy, but I hadn't expected a tome redolent of history, alchemy, and even Templar conspiracies. In retrospect, I wish that all urban fantasy novels had more history and alchemy and Templar conspiracies. The past is rich and full of just as much intrigue as anything we've got today, after all, and denying the fact won't make so many modern novels better. It's true that I expected a novel with a scholarly feel, and it's equally true that I What a surprising find. Sure, I expected a decent urban fantasy, but I hadn't expected a tome redolent of history, alchemy, and even Templar conspiracies. In retrospect, I wish that all urban fantasy novels had more history and alchemy and Templar conspiracies. The past is rich and full of just as much intrigue as anything we've got today, after all, and denying the fact won't make so many modern novels better. It's true that I expected a novel with a scholarly feel, and it's equally true that I expected a witch with equal parts frailty and overpowered magic, but unlike a number of completely unfair reviews, I didn't have a problem with characters that displayed actual human complexities. The overpowered magic was nothing of the sort. I saw a novel-long setup and decent foreshadowing. The time in the novel is ripe for a big change, and I love the story's fearlessness. I'm fully invested in each and every character that has shown up and feel how alive they are. The novel deserves high praise much thought. At this point, I'm pretty sure we're seeing the (re)birth of a goddess, and the ride is as important as the destination. The writing is so finely honed that I have no problems at all with the introduction of new power and new twists, because even at the very beginning there were finely woven threads that reenforced all revelations. I can't wait to read the next two. ...more Eight of my friends gave this book five stars. Ten gave it four stars. Three gave it three stars. No one gave it less than three stars. Then there's me, giving this book two stars. The only explanation? I'm weird. There's not much I can say about this book, not in fear of spoiling something (honestly, I don't think there's much to spoil), but because nothing really happened, and I suppose that is my reason enough for not liking this book as I had hoped I would. Similar to Hereafter , A Discovery o Eight of my friends gave this book five stars. Ten gave it four stars. Three gave it three stars. No one gave it less than three stars. Then there's me, giving this book two stars. The only explanation? I'm weird. There's not much I can say about this book, not in fear of spoiling something (honestly, I don't think there's much to spoil), but because nothing really happened, and I suppose that is my reason enough for not liking this book as I had hoped I would. Similar to Hereafter , A Discovery of Witches is, in all honesty, a series of obstacles placed upon Diana and Matthew only to add stress to their relationship. And what a relationship it is! /end sarcasm\\ I'm not sure I understand where you're coming from, Diana... At first, you try to avoid Matthew at all costs. Then, on the next page, you're flirting with him. Then (view spoiler) [you're married and are pregnant with his child. How long have you guys known each other? (hide spoiler) ] As you may have noticed, I've placed this book on my shelf entitled, \"take-your-insta-love-and-leave\", because, in a sense, their relationship was insta-love (something I'm not very fond of). And, as much as fans may beg to differ, I thought Diana was uninteresting and weak. She's described as a brilliant woman, but I've failed to capture any of her brilliance when reading A Discovery of Witches. She may have been book smart, but she certainly was not street smart, and lacked any sufficient amount of common sense. She's in constant need of saving, and Matthew is always there to save his little damsel in distress. I value a strong, self-reliant heroine in literature, and I can honestly say, I don't believe Diana is one. And as for Matthew, his similarity to a certain, significant other vampire of literature is startling (and here comes what I'm sure will upset fans of this book, and those who really like Matthew). If you hadn't caught on on my hint, the significant other vampire I was referring to is Edward Cullen. While Matthew doesn't have the creepy, stalker qualities of Edward Cullen, he does share quite a few others with him, such as: 1: He's extremely rich; 2: He's stunningly gorgeous; 3: He has a large family, though not all members in his family are of his blood; 4: He is over protective towards Diana, but, like Bella, Diana needs his protection; 5: He has an overwhelming desire to eat his love interest. and I'm sure there are probably other little similarities, but those are all that I had picked up. I felt that A Discovery of Witches' saving grace, as well as its downfall, was its writing. The writing itself is excellent, which is really why I won't be giving this book one star, but it's also a very large reason why it received only two stars from me, because it is incredibly slow, and focuses on extremely asinine things. Harkness incorporates a wide variety of different topics in A Discovery of Witches, most unnecessary, and while her knowledge of said topics was impressive, it made for an extremely boring book. If you don't mind seemingly endless descriptions of wine (lots and lots of seemingly endless descriptions of wine), food (lots and lots of descriptions of food), an overwhelming use of Latin and French (and sometimes them mixed together to form one language), and a ton of history and science, you may just enjoy A Discovery of Witches. Clearly, this book is for a lot of people, and clearly, it's not for me. However, if you don't mind reading a slow book that does eventually get to the point much later on in the story, if you don't mind a romance completely taking over the main plot, and you don't mind being bombarded with unnecessary information, I think this will be a book you'd enjoy. ...more<---C>Sarah Bishop</---C>", "Title": "A Discovery of Witches"},
