{"Comments": "<+++>The Purpose Driven Life: What on Earth Am I Here for?</+++>At its best, this book is filled with porous theology that is modestly helpful to someone who has no knowledge of Christianity whatsoever. At its worst, Warren mangles scripture to fit his own agenda (<---B>40 days to find purpose in your life</---B>) and promotes personal experience over the truth found in scripture. This book is symptomatic of feel-good consumerized Christianity so prevalent in America today. Finding your purpose in life takes far longer than 40 days and it cannot be easily summarized (besi At its best, this book is filled with porous theology that is modestly helpful to someone who has no knowledge of Christianity whatsoever. At its worst, Warren mangles scripture to fit his own agenda (40 days to find purpose in your life) and promotes personal experience over the truth found in scripture. This book is symptomatic of feel-good consumerized Christianity so prevalent in America today. Finding your purpose in life takes far longer than 40 days and it cannot be easily summarized (besides the obvious - to love and worship God). \"The Purpose Driven Life\" offers nothing new and while not quite heretical, it is very unsound and I cannot recommend this book to anyone. The fact that Warren makes references to the other \"Purpose Driven\"-branded items in his book that one can purchase pretty much sums it up. I was given a free copy of this book by a friend at my church a few years ago. I finished reading the book simply to say that I had read it in its entirety. If you want good,<---M> thoughtful Christian writers</---M>, check out - Links (for the lazy): J.I.<---F> Packer (\"Knowing God\") [ http://www</---F>.amazon.com/Knowing-God-J-I... ] Augustine of Hippo (\"Confessions\" translated by F.J. Sheed, \" City of God \") [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_b/1... ] C.S. Lewis (\"Mere Christianity\" \"The Screwtape Letters\" \"The Problem of Pain\") [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_b/0... ] G.K. Chesterson (\"Orthodoxy\" \"The Everlasting Man\") [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_b/0... ] John Piper [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_b/0... ] Ravi Zacharias [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_gw/... ] A.W. Pink [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_b/0... ] A.W. Tozer (no relations haha) [ http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_b/0... ] I spent way too much time on this. Hope it helps. ...more Simply put....there is no worldly method to achieving a closer walk with God. It will take time reading God's Word and praying. There is no short-cut to spirituality. The Purpose Driven Life and other similar series attempt to provide a short-cut and may encourage new believers to think that once they have achieved the twelve steps they can cease striving after God. I gave up on this book half way through and threw it away as I felt as if it was a deception. I have since read many concerning thi Simply put....there is no worldly method to achieving a closer walk with God. It will take time reading God's Word and praying. There is no short-cut to spirituality. The Purpose Driven Life and other similar series attempt to provide a short-cut and may encourage new believers to think that once they have achieved the twelve steps they can cease striving after God. I gave up on this book half way through and threw it away as I felt as if it was a deception. I have since read many concerning things about the author and his links with ecumenism and new-age....I'm not surprised this book was and is a best seller as it provides an easy Christianity and broad is the road that leads to destruction. I am concerned that some churches are abandoning Bibles for their studies and studying this book instead. Any book that causes people to take their eyes off God and onto a man made method is a danger. Challies expresses my concerns clearly in this post http://www.challies.com/articles/rick... I don't recommend this book. ...more \"It's not about you.\" Changed my life. I took Warren's challenge and found that I was not where I should have been. Paradoxically, I was at that time employed by a Christian ministry highly regarded by many (and vilified by some), but I knew--I knew--that wasn't where I was supposed to be. So, I quit my job and sought a new direction. Not there yet by a long shot, but thanks to <---A>Rick Warren</---A> I'm on my way. \"God made you so he could love you\" (p. 24), Warren tells us, and the purpose that drives our lives should be loving God in return. \"Worship is as natural as eating or breathing. If we fail to worship God, we always find a substitute, even if it ends up being ourselves. The reason God made us with this desire is that he desires worshipers!\" (p. 64) This worldview quickly becomes incoherent. Consider these two statements, made side-by-side: \"You are free to choose what you surrender to, but you ar \"God made you so he could love you\" (p. 24), Warren tells us, and the purpose that drives our lives should be loving God in return. \"Worship is as natural as eating or breathing. If we fail to worship God, we always find a substitute, even if it ends up being ourselves. The reason God made us with this desire is that he desires worshipers!\" (p. 64) This worldview quickly becomes incoherent. Consider these two statements, made side-by-side: \"You are free to choose what you surrender to, but you are not free from the consequences of that choice. E. Stanley Jones said, 'If you don't surrender to Christ, you surrender to chaos.'\" (p. 82) The first sentence is a scientific worldview. Actions have consequences that should, at least in principle, be predictable. The second sentence says that our actions have consequences that are chaotic, meaning unpredictable. Being bound to consequences and surrendering to chaos are two quite different things (unless one has some quantum physics approach that reconciles them). In Warren's worldview, people are pawns who unknowingly carry out a plan that is beyond their comprehension. \"Most amazing, God decided how you would be born...They [your parents] had the DNA God wanted to make you...Many children are unplanned by their parents, but they are not unplanned by God. God's purpose took into account human error, and even sin.\" (p. 23) Such an absolutist stance against free will is difficult to maintain. For example, if God creates everything about us, then God must have created heterosexual attraction, as he assumes here: \"You can be attracted or even aroused without choosing to sin by lusting. Many people, especially Christian men, feel guilty that their God-given hormones are working. When they automatically notice an attractive woman, they assume it is lust and feel ashamed and condemned. But attraction is not lust until you begin to dwell on it.\" (p. 205) Warren does not comment on the question of whether God created homosexual attraction, which would also logically follow if God creates everything. Warren says, \"Of course, sincerity alone is not enough [in worship]; you can be sincerely wrong.\" (p. 102) However, he shows no recognition of his own fallibility, nor even that a single sentence he has written in this book might be wrong. Assuming Biblical inerrancy, he advises: \"Determine to first ask, 'What does the Bible say?' when making decisions. Resolve that when God says to do something, you will trust God's Word and do it whether or not it makes sense or you feel like doing it.\" (p. 187) But this is unacceptable behavior for anyone--even a Jew, Christian, or Muslim--who does not believe that the Bible and human interpretation of it is infallible. If someone is willing to do things that do not make sense even to himself and he refuses to analyze them, it is unclear how he is supposed to avoid being \"sincerely wrong.\" He occasionally uses weird, violent metaphors for faith: - \"You must move against it [fear] with the weapons of faith and love.\" (p. 29) - \"If you don't have any Bible verses memorized, you've got no bullets in your gun!\" (p. 215) - \"Lane Adams once compared the process of spiritual growth to the strategy the Allies used in World War II to liberate islands in the South Pacific....Our pre-conversion experience is Jesus saying, 'Behold I stand at the door and bomb!' (p. 218) I guess this answers the popular rhetorical witticism \"Who would Jesus bomb?\" To be fair, he did not intend this book as philosophy. The first half of the book assumes belief in God, in the immortality of the soul, and in the Christian version of the Bible. The second half of the book goads committed Christians to join churches to strengthen their faith. Readers who want this material will get what they paid for. But skeptics and outsiders will not be persuaded of anything. ...more This is a disgusting book. The goal of this book is to make you a slave. Don't take my word for it I'll just read straight from the book: \"Worship isn't for you. It's for God p.66, God smiles when we obey him wholeheartedly, You have no right to argue with your Creator. You are merely a clay pot shaped by a potter p.75 \" Or the chapters titles \"Thinking like a Servant \" and \"How Real Servants Act\". For me, the most revolting thing about the book came on p.80 and this theme was repeated throughout This is a disgusting book. The goal of this book is to make you a slave. Don't take my word for it I'll just read straight from the book: \"Worship isn't for you. It's for God p.66, God smiles when we obey him wholeheartedly, You have no right to argue with your Creator. You are merely a clay pot shaped by a potter p.75 \" Or the chapters titles \"Thinking like a Servant \" and \"How Real Servants Act\". For me, the most revolting thing about the book came on p.80 and this theme was repeated throughout the book \"Surrendered people obey God's word even if it doesn't make sense.\" A few sentences before that Warren says \"God would not waste the mind he gave you. God doesn't want a lot of mindless robots following him.\" Anyone who doesn't see the clear contradiction between those two sentences is a fool. And Warren put them on the same page. Warren says it over and over and over again, the purpose of life isn't to learn, or to teach or even to just enjoy life, but to OBEY God. It doesn't matter what your own thoughts are or what you think of yourself, it only matters what the Great Self Appointed Tyrant in the Sky thinks of you and your life. According to this book, your only goal in life is to be forever groveling and praising this God and doing your damnedest to get others to do likewise. There are some decent lessons in the book but all of them are corrupted by the awful dogma of Warren and his twisted theology. The book is designed to get around your intellect, it even says at some points that thinking and doubting are bad things, and go straight for your weakness and insecurities with an open attempt to try and convince you that you and everything you value are worthless without the Dictator's permission. Only a fool, only someone who WANTS TO BE A SLAVE would get anything out of this book. ...more Rick Warren was a customer of mine (Greatsite.com - The Bible Museum) before he released this best-selling and now extremely famous book. I find it curious that so many of my Christian friends are quick to criticize this book as being a \"primer\" of \"Christianity 101\" or an introduction to the Christian Faith and Life... and they feel it does not go deep enough theologically. That is not a valid criticism of this book in my opinion, because this book does not represent itself to be a seminary-lev Rick Warren was a customer of mine (Greatsite.com - The Bible Museum) before he released this best-selling and now extremely famous book. I find it curious that so many of my Christian friends are quick to criticize this book as being a \"primer\" of \"Christianity 101\" or an introduction to the Christian Faith and Life... and they feel it does not go deep enough theologically. That is not a valid criticism of this book in my opinion, because this book does not represent itself to be a seminary-level text of a theologically comprehensive nature. It is precisely and unashamedly what they criticize it for being: an introduction to Christianity. It is an excellent introduction to Christianity, and I see why it is so well-received. It is no substitute for the Bible, nor does it claim to be, but for those who may be intimidated by the Bible... this book has offered many millions a path toward putting aside that intimidation and encouraging them to read their Bible and fellowship with a local body of believers. ...more I don't even know where to begin with this book... It has been suggested that the information provided within is \"Christian\" in its delivery... Though, I would suggest to you that everything in this world that refers to itself as Christian is not necessarily so... Simply because a book includes Bible verses does not mean that those verses have anything to do with what the Word of God is commanding of those who would follow Him... Marilyn Manson's song lyrics contain scripture, however, no one in I don't even know where to begin with this book... It has been suggested that the information provided within is \"Christian\" in its delivery... Though, I would suggest to you that everything in this world that refers to itself as Christian is not necessarily so... Simply because a book includes Bible verses does not mean that those verses have anything to do with what the Word of God is commanding of those who would follow Him... Marilyn Manson's song lyrics contain scripture, however, no one in their right mind would ever even suggest that his music has anything to do with \"God's Plan.\" Based upon the idea that 40 days is some sort of spiritually significant span of time in God's Daytimer, this book encourages it's readers to embark on a sort of 40-day study into what God's plan is for you... What's dangerous about this book, in my opinion, is that it professes to hold some sort of secret about God and His desire for mankind, that perhaps He has not clearly revealed in His Word... The scripture that Rick Warren uses to make his points, and state his case that we should be a \"purpose driven\" people, seeking out a more \"church driven\" life, is simply mis-used as many of the books of Mr. Warren's contemporaries, such as Joel Osteen and T.D. Jakes. Both \"megachurch\" pastors publishing works that encourage their readers and followers to seek out their \"divine purpose\" so that they can \"do more and be more\" for Jesus... We are to repent of our sins, and trust in Christ - love God with all of our heart, mind, soul and strength - and love our neighbor as ourselves... And go into the whole world, and preach the gospel to all of creation... That is our purpose, plain and simple... If anyone calling themselves a follower of Christ wants to know what more is required of them as a believer, they merely need open the Word of God, not the next Prayer of Jabez. ...more This book teaches its reader God's five purposes for his or her life on earth: He makes you a member of His family, a model of His character, a magnifier of His glory, a minister of His grace, and a messenger of His Good News to others. Among those five purposes, at this stage in my life, the only engaging read for me was the first one. There was nothing new about it really as I basically studied at several Catholic universities during my younger years. However, there were some bible passages an This book teaches its reader God's five purposes for his or her life on earth: He makes you a member of His family, a model of His character, a magnifier of His glory, a minister of His grace, and a messenger of His Good News to others. Among those five purposes, at this stage in my life, the only engaging read for me was the first one. There was nothing new about it really as I basically studied at several Catholic universities during my younger years. However, there were some bible passages and pointers that Warren reminded me of and the book had the usual positive impact to me so I still liked it. It's just that pages after pages of it sounded like some of the religion teachers that I had in the past. Maybe when I am in the twilight years, I will read this book again and its the impact will be greater than it has on me now. There are also many quotable quotes that were able to inspire me there past few weeks. The book is designed to be read one chapter a day for the reader to \"digest\" and ponder the point that the chapter wants to convey. I recently had a couple of misunderstandings with someone close to me and this book became my companion in threshing out what could be done to fix things. Warren actually helped me in seeing things at that someone's points of view so saying sorry, forgetting and granting forgiveness were not really that difficult. We have three copies of this book at home. The first was a Christmas gift from an office mate. The second was a retirement gift to my wife by another office mate. The third was the book my daughter bought for herself. I am not sure which one I read but since this book was first published in 2002, it has sold 25 million copies worldwide. I was in a bookstore last week and the latest copy proudly bears 30 million mark. Why did I not read this right away say when we received the first copy of the book at home? I dunno. Just browsing the book gave me then an impression that it was saccharine sweet and was unrealistically all positive that means falsely deceptive. That impression is not true. The book is realistic and Warren presents the challenges that every Christian should work for. From the first declaration of \"this is not about you\" to \"living with purpose is the only way to really live,\" the book is peppered with heartfelt applications of bible passages as Warren presents the five purposes that I mentioned above. My eyes did not get blurred not my heart pounded with sadness or inspiration but I felt that my spirit flew and soured while reading some of its pages. A dear friend mentioned that the youngest child of Warren committed suicide this year, April 5, 2013 after struggling with mental illness that caused severe depression. In my life, I've seen several similar cases like this: a successful parent losing a child possibly because the celebrity parent got too focused with fame and in the process neglected his o her own family. But I do not know Warren's complete story so I'd rather keep my comments to myself. At some point in your life you should read this book. ...more Dear Mr. R.W, Thank you for writing such a wonderful book. For years, I\u2019ve been battling loneliness within me, always reading some help books that didn\u2019t really help at all. Actually, I\u2019d read your book when I was in high school and maybe I\u2019m too young at that time or not interested at all that\u2019s why I didn\u2019t took it seriously. And then, one day, I just woke up and decided that I don\u2019t want to live my life like this anymore; a life with no purpose, a life full of regrets, worry, mediocrity and anx Dear Mr. R.W, Thank you for writing such a wonderful book. For years, I\u2019ve been battling loneliness within me, always reading some help books that didn\u2019t really help at all. Actually, I\u2019d read your book when I was in high school and maybe I\u2019m too young at that time or not interested at all that\u2019s why I didn\u2019t took it seriously. And then, one day, I just woke up and decided that I don\u2019t want to live my life like this anymore; a life with no purpose, a life full of regrets, worry, mediocrity and anxiety. I stopped. I felt this hunger within me, a hunger for peace and contentment and I start reading your book again, slowly. It is painful for me to read that book. Every chapter is like a slap. Every paragraph had given me heartaches. But it\u2019s okay because your book deserves to be read. Your book taught me a lot. I learned that it\u2019s okay to stumble, you just have to stand up again and never ever forget the faith you have in Christ. I learned that if we center our lives on Him, everything would fall into their right places. \u201cEarth is not heaven.\u201d ~ This is one of the quotes that I really like in your book. We are experiencing pain because we are not home yet. God\u2019s ultimate goal for our lives on earth is not comfort, but character development. Pain is vital because God uses it so we can mature and grow like Christ. God allows us to feel a significant amount of discontent and dissatisfaction in life- longings that will never be fulfilled on this side of eternity. We\u2019re not completely happy here because we are not supposed to be. Earth is not our final home and we were created for something much better. Thank you for reminding me that God has emotions too. He can feel our pain and sufferings. He feels angry too. And He smiles and laughs whenever we did something that is pleasing for Him. Thank you for also pointing out that we shouldn\u2019t focus on ourselves, sulking in self-pity but rather, we should start helping other people by our God-given abilities and pleasing God. Reading your book made me realize that I\u2019ve been living my life so wrong, always starting on the wrong line, always running and always focusing on my own ambitions. I learned that I cannot fulfill God\u2019s purposes in my life while focusing on my own plans. For years, I\u2019m the type of person that has her doubts in God. And now, I realized that we cannot measure the greatness of God because He is infinite and we are only finite human beings. I hope a lot of people would read your book. Imagine the world if only all the people living in it know their purpose. It would make a great difference. Thank you for reaching out to people like me. It means a lot. Sincerely, J. ...more I believe, this book was written to change the life of the reader, it gives answers to every questions you're asking to GOD, telling you your purpose and that is to live for GOD. It clarifies everything. This is really an amazing book. Life-changing! :) I am reading the hard cover copy but I couldn't find it on GoodReads. I am starting this book today. I am also going to do what it suggests - only read one chapter a day for 40 days. So that means, I will finish this book in a little over a month. The whole point of the book is to supposedly show you *why* you are on this Earth. I've been doing a lot of soul-searching lately & I am hoping to gain some knowledge from reading this book. \"Self-help books often suggest that you try to discover the I am reading the hard cover copy but I couldn't find it on GoodReads. I am starting this book today. I am also going to do what it suggests - only read one chapter a day for 40 days. So that means, I will finish this book in a little over a month. The whole point of the book is to supposedly show you *why* you are on this Earth. I've been doing a lot of soul-searching lately & I am hoping to gain some knowledge from reading this book. \"Self-help books often suggest that you try to discover the meaning & purpose of your life by looking within yourself, but Rick Warren says that is the *wrong* place to start. You *must* begin with God, your Creator, & His reasons for creating you. You were made *by* God & *for* God, & until you understand that, life will never make sense.\" (Quoted from the book) So far I *really* enjoy this book! It is very inspiring & a real \"wake up\" call to me. I am a Christian but I haven't exactly been living like one for years. I sort of \"back slid\" & just lived day to day like everyone else. I really hope to make some permanent spiritual changes from reading this book! ...more I suppose this book can be genuinely helpful to some people (Scott Peterson, Brian Nichols, Fidel Castro, for example have all apparently benefited from this book), but it was uninteresting to me from the get-go. I went into it with an open mind, and hoped to gain some spiritual insight from it. However, when the book immediately recommended The Purpose-Driving Journal, The Purpose-Driven Calendar, Daily Inspiration for the Purpose-Driven Life, not to mention The Purpose Driven Life DVD Study Gu I suppose this book can be genuinely helpful to some people (Scott Peterson, Brian Nichols, Fidel Castro, for example have all apparently benefited from this book), but it was uninteresting to me from the get-go. I went into it with an open mind, and hoped to gain some spiritual insight from it. However, when the book immediately recommended The Purpose-Driving Journal, The Purpose-Driven Calendar, Daily Inspiration for the Purpose-Driven Life, not to mention The Purpose Driven Life DVD Study Guide and The Purpose-Driven Life - Commuter Edition, I began to sense that despite the authors' good intentions the book has become a commercial monster of (dare I say) Biblical proportions, and I couldn't bear to be a part of it. Maybe someday I will calm down and be able to finish it. But I'll have to remember to get myself a leather-bound $15.00 Purpose-Driven Life Deluxe Journal beforehand!! ...more Our life now here on earth is the warm-up act - the dress rehearsal. God wants us to practice what we will do forever in eternity. We were made by God and for God, and until you figure that out, life isn't going to make sense. Life is a series of problems: Either we are in one now, we're just coming out of one, or we're getting ready to go into another one. The reason for this is that God is more interested in our character than our comfort. God is more interested in making our life holy than He is Our life now here on earth is the warm-up act - the dress rehearsal. God wants us to practice what we will do forever in eternity. We were made by God and for God, and until you figure that out, life isn't going to make sense. Life is a series of problems: Either we are in one now, we're just coming out of one, or we're getting ready to go into another one. The reason for this is that God is more interested in our character than our comfort. God is more interested in making our life holy than He is in making our life happy. We can be reasonably happy here on earth, but that's not the goal of life. The goal is to grow in character, in Christ likeness. Life being hills and valleys (you go through a dark time, then you go to the mountaintop, back and forth), no matter how good things are in our life, there is always something bad that needs to be worked on. And no matter how bad things are in our life, there is always something good we can thank God for. We can focus on our purposes, or we can focus on our problems. If we focus on our problems, we're going into self-centeredness,'which is my problem, my issues, my pain.' But one of the easiest ways to get rid of pain is to get our focus off yourself and ontoGod and others. We have to learn to deal with both the good and the bad of life. Actually, sometimes learning to deal with the good is harder. We need to ask ourselves: Am I going to live for possessions? Popularity? Am I going to be driven by pressures? Guilt? Bitterness? Materialism? Or am I going to be driven by God's purposes for my life? God didn't put us on earth just to fulfill a to-do list. He's more interested in what we are than what we do. That's why we're called human beings, not human doings. ...more This book allows you to discover, who you are and what your purpose is. It is a books that speaks of why, how and what. A book that has transforming pieces of ' golden nuggets. Light bulb moments, which opens your eyes to what is possible. It does not preach to you, but talks to you with reason. Allows you to discover ' whose you really are' Without condemnation, but touches you lovingly and wants you to listen, be still and know that God is real and is just waiting for you to open your eyes to tr This book allows you to discover, who you are and what your purpose is. It is a books that speaks of why, how and what. A book that has transforming pieces of ' golden nuggets. Light bulb moments, which opens your eyes to what is possible. It does not preach to you, but talks to you with reason. Allows you to discover ' whose you really are' Without condemnation, but touches you lovingly and wants you to listen, be still and know that God is real and is just waiting for you to open your eyes to truth. I for one, have been transformed by this book and would suggest it to anyone, who is looking for answers. Ultimately, the Bible is the number one book on truth. However, The purpose Driven, is equally impactive, and really gets you to think about....Life, the Love of God and the relationship you could have with him, even, what your purpose could be as an individual. There are little tasks given, which makes this book, not only readable, but encourages you to be mentally interactive. Tests your commitment, to wanting to change and learn. I suggest this to anyone who is looking for.....' Why am I here' and ' What is my purpose'.... Petula Hippolyte ...more A friend gave me this book when I was going through a difficult time in my life and it was more than a great gift. I felt the book was very eye-opening without being overly religious. You can be a Christian and follow what the book is saying and get a very deep meaning out of it if you allow yourself to. I read it at the right time and was very open to what it had to say and therefore feel that it changed me. I still think back to that time being one of the catalysts for where I am at today and A friend gave me this book when I was going through a difficult time in my life and it was more than a great gift. I felt the book was very eye-opening without being overly religious. You can be a Christian and follow what the book is saying and get a very deep meaning out of it if you allow yourself to. I read it at the right time and was very open to what it had to say and therefore feel that it changed me. I still think back to that time being one of the catalysts for where I am at today and the book is a large part of that. I think we all struggle at some point of wanting to know why we are here so it's a common dilemna when nothing seems to be going right in your life to want to ask GOD. This book seems to be full of the questions you would ask and gives the answers that come from the Bible. It did get me through a rough time and very much has become the basis of my core today. I feel that I have found my purpose in life and no longer struggle with that inner pain of \"what am I doing here?\" ...more We read this in a weekly meeting at church and I was impressed with this book's simple wisdom. One can read the words easily, but taking them to heart is a different matter. I can recall reading a handful of books in my life, only a few which were theological in nature, where I got to a certain point and I had to stop, simply because I couldn't go any farther: I could not get my head...or heart... around such a concept as was being presented and I felt that pushing through or on would have been a We read this in a weekly meeting at church and I was impressed with this book's simple wisdom. One can read the words easily, but taking them to heart is a different matter. I can recall reading a handful of books in my life, only a few which were theological in nature, where I got to a certain point and I had to stop, simply because I couldn't go any farther: I could not get my head...or heart... around such a concept as was being presented and I felt that pushing through or on would have been a waste of time. I still feeel that way about really good books. The first time I read this book, I pushed through without bringing myself to some of those hard decisions, things which would change the way I did things, should I do them. In a sense I had to push onward: there wasn't any time to stop and tell myself that I was unwilling to do something important for my relationship with God. This time I am not stopping and that makes it all the more beautiful. ...more I read this book thinking it would offer something deep and real about the purpose of God and the purposes of peoples in the world. But it offered little more than a worn-out run-a-round of the phrase \"God has a purpose for you.\" I know why this book is so popular - it, like many others, offers Christians the idea that \"God's purpose\" for you has something to do with getting ahead in life and having more money. It's that lame \"name it and claim it\" mentality. I wouldn't recommend this book to an I read this book thinking it would offer something deep and real about the purpose of God and the purposes of peoples in the world. But it offered little more than a worn-out run-a-round of the phrase \"God has a purpose for you.\" I know why this book is so popular - it, like many others, offers Christians the idea that \"God's purpose\" for you has something to do with getting ahead in life and having more money. It's that lame \"name it and claim it\" mentality. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone. ...more when i thought my LIFE has no perfect meaning... that i was going on with boring days of 24/7 !! \" PURPOSE DRIVEN LIFE \" came into my LIFE with a KICK of knowing what is GOD'S purpose in my LIFE !! i came to know that iam not a mistake but of GOD'S CHOOSEN ONE !! HE choose me from the FAREST CORNER of this world & appointed me to BEAR FRUITS.. FRUITS that will ENDURES FOREVER & EVER... AS YOU KNOW FOREVER IS A LONG TERM OF TIME !! i would prefer you \"ALL\" to read \"this\" book to get recha when i thought my LIFE has no perfect meaning... that i was going on with boring days of 24/7 !! \" PURPOSE DRIVEN LIFE \" came into my LIFE with a KICK of knowing what is GOD'S purpose in my LIFE !! i came to know that iam not a mistake but of GOD'S CHOOSEN ONE !! HE choose me from the FAREST CORNER of this world & appointed me to BEAR FRUITS.. FRUITS that will ENDURES FOREVER & EVER... AS YOU KNOW FOREVER IS A LONG TERM OF TIME !! i would prefer you \"ALL\" to read \"this\" book to get recharged !! PRESS ON & ON.. FOR JESUS !! GOD BLESS U ABDUNTENTLY !! ...more I felt this was a wonderfully thought provoking book. I was surprised at the negative reviews posted below. I agree that you need more than 40 days, but I took this as a start for many to get real with how they are spending their time and are we serving where God is calling us. I have facilitated many Bible studies where we spend indepth time in scripture. We felt this was a welcome addition to our other studies and I plan to continue working on my Purpose. I would recommend to any who want to d I felt this was a wonderfully thought provoking book. I was surprised at the negative reviews posted below. I agree that you need more than 40 days, but I took this as a start for many to get real with how they are spending their time and are we serving where God is calling us. I have facilitated many Bible studies where we spend indepth time in scripture. We felt this was a welcome addition to our other studies and I plan to continue working on my Purpose. I would recommend to any who want to dig within themselves. ...more Like the Shack, not bad just not great. I think all the Purpose Driven Life merchandising bothered me some to...that could be, just me though. I am a Christian and I find that \"popular\" Christian books tend to have a \"hard row to hoe\" with me. I'd say, know what you believe and then read this. Works flow from a person's relationship with God, they do not bring it about. I'm not saying that this book claims they do, I'm just saying fit the contemporary read (any contemporary work)into grounded Chri Like the Shack, not bad just not great. I think all the Purpose Driven Life merchandising bothered me some to...that could be, just me though. I am a Christian and I find that \"popular\" Christian books tend to have a \"hard row to hoe\" with me. I'd say, know what you believe and then read this. Works flow from a person's relationship with God, they do not bring it about. I'm not saying that this book claims they do, I'm just saying fit the contemporary read (any contemporary work)into grounded Christian belief, not the other way around. ...more As many reviewers here and elsewhere have pointed out, this book and its approach are theologically suspect, and based much more on marketing hype and good feelings than any real substance. You're much better off reading C.S. Lewis or John Piper any day. I personally find it difficult to read the book at all. Even when I agree with some of Rick Warren's overall conclusions, he frequently supports those conclusions via logical fallacies, false analogies, and Bible verses quoted out of context (and As many reviewers here and elsewhere have pointed out, this book and its approach are theologically suspect, and based much more on marketing hype and good feelings than any real substance. You're much better off reading C.S. Lewis or John Piper any day. I personally find it difficult to read the book at all. Even when I agree with some of Rick Warren's overall conclusions, he frequently supports those conclusions via logical fallacies, false analogies, and Bible verses quoted out of context (and often taken from loose paraphrases like The Message, rather than rigorous translations). I have to stop reading and check a reliable translation every time Pastor Rick says \"God says...\", so that I can see what God actually said, and the context in which He said it. Frequently, the Bible verse has no bearing on Warren's argument, or even contradicts it, unless you quote it out of context from The Message. Instead of \"God says...\", many passages in the book should read \"Eugene Peterson says that he thinks that God might have meant something like...\" But that probably wouldn't flow as well at the end of every paragraph. If you really want to know what \"God says,\" pick up a Bible and read where God actually says it. You don't need Rick Warren to give you a watered down third-hand account. Personally, I am only reading the book as a starting point for discussion with a small group, as our church is going through the 40 Days of Purpose campaign. But there's no way I'd recommend reading this book outside of that context, given the many great Christian writers you have to choose from. Pick up anything by J.I. Packer, John Piper, or any other author who believes that conclusions about God must be rooted in what God's word actually says. For an enlightening study of the difference, read the preface of \"The Purpose Driven Life\" and compare it to what Piper writes in his introduction to \"Desiring God\". ...more I think I'm the only one in the world who hated this book. It annoyed the crap out of me. It lays out a canned formula to live. Turn-off for me. I read this for a book group my friend was leading. I totally hated it. Totally. Hated. It. A. I don't like any book that purports to speak on behalf of God and/or dictate what God thinks. Unless God is sitting there in the room with us and saying, \"Yup, I totally agree with Rick on that point\", Rick Warren has no right to speak on God's behalf. B. It reeks of feel-good, pop-psychology-driven Christianity. \"God loves you no matter how wickedly terrible you are and how many puppies you drowned and I read this for a book group my friend was leading. I totally hated it. Totally. Hated. It. A. I don't like any book that purports to speak on behalf of God and/or dictate what God thinks. Unless God is sitting there in the room with us and saying, \"Yup, I totally agree with Rick on that point\", Rick Warren has no right to speak on God's behalf. B. It reeks of feel-good, pop-psychology-driven Christianity. \"God loves you no matter how wickedly terrible you are and how many puppies you drowned and how many houses you burned down and . . . .\" C. The book focuses on making you not feel so bad about yourself instead of focusing on God. You could have edited the message in the book to be based upon any religion or even no religion at all. D. I felt like I was reading Rick's opinion as opposed to something biblical. I too can probably find an appropriate bible verse to illustrate many things I think and believe, particularly if I use a plethora of translations. E. I'd rather people who consider themselves to be Christians actually sit down and read the Bible. So few Christians have read the Bible for themselves and only know the contents via what others have told them. ...more \u201cWhat on Earth Am I Here For?\u201d \u201c10 years ago, Rick Warren wrote The Purpose Driven Life, which became the bestselling hardback non-fiction book in history, and is the second most-translated book in the world, after the Bible. PDL has inspired and changed tens of millions of lives \u2026 more than any modern book. NOW, Rick has updated and expanded the book with new chapters on the greatest barriers to living your purpose, plus 42 video introductions to each chapter theme, and 42 additional audio messag \u201cWhat on Earth Am I Here For?\u201d \u201c10 years ago, Rick Warren wrote The Purpose Driven Life, which became the bestselling hardback non-fiction book in history, and is the second most-translated book in the world, after the Bible. PDL has inspired and changed tens of millions of lives \u2026 more than any modern book. NOW, Rick has updated and expanded the book with new chapters on the greatest barriers to living your purpose, plus 42 video introductions to each chapter theme, and 42 additional audio messages that go deeper into each chapter. He has also created a new small group curriculum and new sermon series for pastors, and new follow-up events to conserve the evangelistic and discipleship results you will experience. In the original 40 Days of Purpose campaign, churches averaged 28% growth in attendance, and over 100% growth in small group Bible study! People WANT to know their purpose in life! The Purpose Driven Life will enable a new generation in your church to discover God\u2019s purposes for their lives and empower your church with a fresh new wind of hope, joy, and vitality!\u201d (From the Zondervan Publishing Company Website) About the Author: As founding pastor of Saddleback Church, Dr. Rick Warren leads a 30,000 member congregation in California with campuses in major cities around the world. As a theologian, he has lectured at Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, University of Judaism, and dozens of universities and seminaries. As a global strategist he advises world leaders and has spoken to the United Nations, US Congress, Davos Economic Forum, TED, Aspen Institute, and numerous parliaments. Rick has also founded the global P.E.A.C.E. plan, which Plants churches of reconciliation, Equips leaders, Assists the poor, Cares for the sick, and Educates the next generation in 196 countries. My Thoughts About the Book: Everyone needs a purpose in life \u2013 a reason to get out of bed each morning and live. Rick Warren quotes the famous atheist, Bertrand Russell, at the beginning of his book as stating, \u201cUnless you assume a God, the question of life\u2019s purpose is meaningless.\u201d And then he writes what to many in our self-absorbed, me-first, narcissistic culture today would be the most dreadful words a man could speak or write, \u201c\u201dIT\u2019S NOT ABOUT YOU! The purpose of life is far greater than your own personal fulfillment, your peace of mind, or even your happiness.\u201d They are true words for a world of people starving for non-relative absolute truth. But then, if it is not about us, who or what is \u2018It,\u201d this thing called life, about? In the revised and improved edition of his book The Purpose Driven Life, (although as life impacting and successful as his first book was for so many people it is hard to believe it could be improved upon); pastor and author Warren answers that question for us as his reader in bold and certain terms. And he does through a \u201c40 day spiritual journey,\u201d although it is more than that to be sure. In the first section of his author Warren answers the question, \u201cWhat on earth am I here for?\u201d He then reveals 5 different purposes as to why we are here: (1). \u201cYou Were Planned For God\u2019s Pleasure,\u201d (2). \u201cYou Were Formed For God\u2019s Family,\u201d (3). \u201cYou Were Created To Become Like Christ,\u201d (4). \u201cYou Were shaped For Serving God\u201d and finally (5). \u201cYou Were Made For A Mission.\u201d Under each of the 5 sections of the book, the answer to the question in the section is broken down into short chapters full of Biblical insight and truth. Author Warren refers to Biblical passages, shares relevant quotes, reveals practically gained insights from the life experiences of either himself or his family as well as from others, and \u201cA Point To Ponder,\u201d :A Verse To Remember,\u201d \u201cA Question to Consider\u201d and \u201cA Message to Hear.\u201d A short powerful video that reinforces what is written in the book is also available concerning the topic or spiritual discipline of the day. During the 42 day spiritual journey contained in the book author Warren writes about such vitally important spiritual matters as The Reason For Everything, Worship, The Church (The Family of God); Christlikeness, Temptation, Serving God, Mission, The Envy Trap and the People-Pleaser Trap and much more. He concludes his book with discussion questions and other helpful resources to consider. The beauty of Rick Warren\u2019s new book is the shortness of the chapters and videos so he does not bore us to tears with unnecessary information or non-relevant facts. No, quite the contrary occurs. He has written each chapter and produced each video with the intent of arresting our attention and keeping our interest \u2013 and he succeeds as far as I am concerned. We want to read each short and interesting chapter of the day, watch the video and ponder the point, work on remembering the verse, consider the question and listen to the message with more than just our ears but with our hearts so that we can ultimately find our true purpose in life and live the abundant and totally satisfying life Christ offers us while here on earth. And in the doing so there is no greater joy and peace in life \u2013 to know who you are, whose you are and why you are here. I hope you read the book and enjoy it as much as I have. Disclosure of Material Connection: I received the book at no cost from the BookSneeze Blogger Program/Zondervan Publishing Company for review purposes. I was not required to write a positive review. The opinions I have expressed are my own. I am disclosing this in accordance with the Federal Trade Commission's 16 CFR, Part 255: \"Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising.\" ...more I chose to review this book because I couldn't resist a best seller. The Purpose Driven Life has sold over 20 million copies. The book has won the Book of the Year Award from the Evangelical Christian Publisher Association 2 years in a row. The back book jacket calls the book \"A GROUNDBREAKING MANIFESTO ON THE MEANING OF LIFE.\" Given the popularity of this best seller, I had to see what Warren wrote to demand the attention of readers who buy multiple copies to give to friends, neighbors, and rel I chose to review this book because I couldn't resist a best seller. The Purpose Driven Life has sold over 20 million copies. The book has won the Book of the Year Award from the Evangelical Christian Publisher Association 2 years in a row. The back book jacket calls the book \"A GROUNDBREAKING MANIFESTO ON THE MEANING OF LIFE.\" Given the popularity of this best seller, I had to see what Warren wrote to demand the attention of readers who buy multiple copies to give to friends, neighbors, and relatives. Additionally, there are many accompaniments to the main book, such as hardbound and leather-bound journals. Warren divides the book into 40 short chapters because, he writes, \"The Bible is clear that God considers 40 days a spiritually significant time period. Whenever God wanted to prepare someone for his purpose, he took 40 days.\" Thus, the 40 days are intended to be a time frame for this spiritual journey that encourages self-reflection. At the end of each chapter the author offers a point to ponder, a verse to remember, and a question to consider. Warren states: \"By the end of this journey you will know God's purpose for your life.\" The promise made by this author grabbed my attention. In fact, chapter 2 is titled \"You are not an accident.\" Warren repeats the premise of this chapter in several different ways, such as \"God made you for a reason\" and \"God never does anything accidentally.\" Warren contends that most people ask of their life \"What's in it for me?\" rather than considering that we are \"born by His purpose and for His purpose.\" By the end of the book, I received the main message summed up in the first sentence: \"It is not about you.\" However, there were statements and paragraphs that challenged my credibility of Warren. He uses the book to express his opinions that I dare say are shortsighted and even stereotypical. For example, Warren defines a \"real\" servant as someone serving God by serving others and as having 6 characteristics, 1 of which is: \"real servants maintain a low profile.\" Warren hardly has a low profile. Does that mean that according to his definition he is not a \"real\" servant? I can't deny that this book has its place in the spiritual journey. I found lessons that were appropriate to my own journey. Warren encourages readers to embrace their weaknesses and accept their vulnerabilities. Having many of those, I was heartened to learn that God does not expect perfection, and I can complete my purpose with all my foibles. Review completed by Lynn C. Tolson, author of Beyond the Tears: A True Survivor's Story ...more I've heard a lot of things about this book especially from my mom who made this her most favorite. It intrigued me to know if what the people around me said was true. And now, thanks to a friend of my mom's, gave me a hardcover format of this book (which I'm very thankful for I think it deserves to be bought a copy). I've read the preface and some introductory notes from the author recommending I shall read a chapter per day and join him in a journey of 40 days of finding purpose. I already sign I've heard a lot of things about this book especially from my mom who made this her most favorite. It intrigued me to know if what the people around me said was true. And now, thanks to a friend of my mom's, gave me a hardcover format of this book (which I'm very thankful for I think it deserves to be bought a copy). I've read the preface and some introductory notes from the author recommending I shall read a chapter per day and join him in a journey of 40 days of finding purpose. I already signed the covenant with my mom and will now start my voyage of 40 days. I'm really expecting a lot and I wish I'll be able to find out God's purpose for me. :) ...more Seeing Cassie's listing of this reminded me to add it to my books even though I never finished it. I did read over 3/4th of it. When I finished Retreat in Daily Life the St. Ignatian Spiritual Exercises I was looking for something to fill the gap and a few of the ladies who had been in my group were going to read this so I thought I'd join them in it. None of us ever finished it; it was such a weak follow-up. Maybe I would have liked it better or gotten more out of it at another time or under di Seeing Cassie's listing of this reminded me to add it to my books even though I never finished it. I did read over 3/4th of it. When I finished Retreat in Daily Life the St. Ignatian Spiritual Exercises I was looking for something to fill the gap and a few of the ladies who had been in my group were going to read this so I thought I'd join them in it. None of us ever finished it; it was such a weak follow-up. Maybe I would have liked it better or gotten more out of it at another time or under different circumstances, I don't know. ...more \u062d\u0644\u0648 \u0628\u0633 \u062d\u0633\u064a\u062a\u0647 \u062a\u0646\u0645\u064a\u0629 \u0628\u0634\u0631\u064a\u0629 :D \u0645\u0634 \u0648\u0627\u0642\u0639\u064a \u0623\u0648\u064a \u0628\u0633 \u064a\u062e\u0644\u064a\u0643 \u062a\u0628\u0635 \u0644\u0644\u0623\u0645\u0648\u0631 \u0645\u0646 \u0648\u062c\u0647\u0629 \u0646\u0638\u0631 \u062a\u0627\u0646\u064a\u0629 Unfortunately for anyone who actually has need of reading a book like The Purpose Driven Life, the book is not for them. The ideas portrayed are too simplistic to be educational or helpful. It certainly won't tell you what your purpose in life is. As with most people who have read this book, I was encouraged by someone in my church to give it a go. My depression was hitting me hard, and this was the only thing my fellow Christian thought would help. I read it and shared opinions on it weekly over Unfortunately for anyone who actually has need of reading a book like The Purpose Driven Life, the book is not for them. The ideas portrayed are too simplistic to be educational or helpful. It certainly won't tell you what your purpose in life is. As with most people who have read this book, I was encouraged by someone in my church to give it a go. My depression was hitting me hard, and this was the only thing my fellow Christian thought would help. I read it and shared opinions on it weekly over the phone with my church buddy. I agreed with most of the concepts and thought it was mildly uplifting, but it was generally not useful in any way. As my copy is too light and slick to be a doorstop, I can really see only limited potential use for the book. Sometimes Christians want to prove to other Christians how entirely profound their faith is and how dedicated they are to God. One of the more substantial and immediately self-gratifying ways to accomplish the goal of showing off is to read this book and throw it at someone else. The others that get pressured into the pissing contest are only trying to associate, socialize, and fit in. It's a safe enough book for most modern Christian churches to force-feed it to their small group studies. There's nothing really in this book to set a person on edge, nothing to hate about this. But no point to it either. One word of advice: if you read this, don't buy all the gadgets and supplemental readings advertised in it. God won't think you're a cheap sinner. ...more Rick Warren's book is excellent, but I always have just a bit of a hard time with a man of the clothe telling us we all need to do more for the missions, fellowships, and ministry. I beleive that everyone will have a purpose in life if they put everything they have into following God-. We all can't be missionarys, and don't worry about bills and a job. We all can't be as lucky as the author and give God what he's asking for. If we could then we'd all be ministers, priests and pastors-there would Rick Warren's book is excellent, but I always have just a bit of a hard time with a man of the clothe telling us we all need to do more for the missions, fellowships, and ministry. I beleive that everyone will have a purpose in life if they put everything they have into following God-. We all can't be missionarys, and don't worry about bills and a job. We all can't be as lucky as the author and give God what he's asking for. If we could then we'd all be ministers, priests and pastors-there would be no reason for any other type of profession or way to make a living. Even though God should always be our first priority, that's not always the case. Because I can't drop everything and go help a third world country doesn't mean I'm not a Christian, and want to do for others. I'm the best person I can possible be without turning into a hardship case of my own. I want to stress-I do for others as much as humanly possible, and I don't want any reader of this book to think their best just isn't good enough. Keep a pure heart and strive to always do better without damaging your self in the process. ...more<---C>Rick Warren</---C><+++>The Purpose Driven Life: What on Earth Am I Here for?</+++>", "Title": "The Purpose Driven Life: What on Earth Am I Here for?"},
