{"Comments": "The author(s) of <+++>The Sacred Band</+++> create a vibrant, real world that sweeps you into its grasp and drags you along, kicking and screaming into a dark world where the only wrong action is inaction\u2014and that just gets you killed (or worse)\u2014and dishonor is measured by the severing of bonds formed between warriors, destined to die. Whether it is the numerous combat sequences,<---M> or the on-going</---M>, heartrending conflict between the various characters, their Gods and their world, this book is filled with such The author(s) of <+++>The Sacred Band</+++> create a vibrant, real world that sweeps you into its grasp and drags you along, kicking and screaming into a dark world where the only wrong action is inaction\u2014and that just gets you killed (or worse)\u2014and dishonor is measured by the severing of bonds formed between warriors, destined to die. Whether it is the numerous combat sequences, or the on-going, heartrending conflict between the various characters, their Gods and their world, this book is filled with such immediate need that you are compelled to react to their circumstances. In your mind, you cannot help but take up sword and spear, call out commands or warnings or lamentations and participate as one of the Band in the story itself. Like an intensely contested sporting event, I found it so riveting that I was not above screaming at the characters when their decisions took them into harm\u2019s way and mumbling curses to myself when they made self-serving decisions that threatened both their comrades, and the precarious balance necessary for the survival of the world itself. Anxiety levels were often high, my breathing and heart rate impacted as conflict reached crescendo over and over again, climbing higher each time until its climax when I could finally relax\u2014or so I thought. The characters in the book have deep flaws, needs, desires and vices that feel real, and force the reader to relate to them on a human level. Much as we often search for the underlying reasons for that may explain why soldiers may commit terrible acts in war, the reader finds him/herself seeking to understand the hard, and often violently unforgiving decisions made by the Riddler as he leads the Band on and challenges fate itself. We find ourselves forgiving him those brutal decisions\u2014for we know hard men (and women) are needed in hard times. We are propelled alongside the warriors of the Band as their brothers are killed, their vows challenged, their hearts corrupted\u2014and we feel it deeply, we understand it at a level deeper than most novels even aspire to reach\u2014much less actually reach. There is more to these warriors than surface crust, more to them than shallow characterizations of heroic figures. The author(s) is a master of building the relationship between reader and character and fulfills the implicit contract with the reader from the opening scene: you will care about these characters, you will care about their fight, and you will care about their ability to overcome all of the forces arrayed against them, even if you wouldn\u2019t hand them a glass of water in the event they were parched near to death. I recommend everyone read this book\u2014everyone, that is, that wants to be part of the story, experience the tribulations and victories of its characters and wind up with more personal insight than you could hope to find in a novel, AND the ability to continue on with yet another story about the Band. ...more THE SACRED BAND, by <---A>Janet</---A> Morris and Chris Morris.<---F> Published by Perseid Press</---F>. Copyright 2010 by Janet Morris and Chris Morris. 547 pages. Available from Amazon and Barnes & Noble in trade paperback, Kindle and Nook editions. Reviewed by Joe Bonadonna. (Sanctuary and Thieves\u2019 World are both registered trademarks owned by Lynn Abbey are mentioned here only for purposes of this review.) \u201cAll three hundred of the Sacred Band of Thebes fought at Chaeronea in August of 338 BCE, and two-hundred fif THE SACRED BAND, by Janet Morris and Chris Morris. Published by Perseid Press. Copyright 2010 by Janet Morris and Chris Morris. 547 pages. Available from Amazon and Barnes & Noble in trade paperback, Kindle and Nook editions. Reviewed by Joe Bonadonna. (Sanctuary and Thieves\u2019 World are both registered trademarks owned by Lynn Abbey are mentioned here only for purposes of this review.) \u201cAll three hundred of the Sacred Band of Thebes fought at Chaeronea in August of 338 BCE, and two-hundred fifty-four skeletons lie buried there today under a granite lion. Some still argue about the fate of the forty-six whose skeletons were not recovered. Plutarch says that they died together, and Philip of Macedon wept to see it. Another, later, view is that the remainder surrendered, were taken prisoner, or deserted. We tell a different story.\u201d \u2014 Janet and Chris Morris, in their Authors\u2019 Notes and Acknowledgments from The Sacred Band. And this is the premise behind this wonderfully rich, complex, dramatic and highly emotional epic of gods, demi-gods and Men. This is the story of how Tempus the Black, Favorite of Enlil, Storm God of the Armies, and the one they call Riddler, challenged the gods to rescue twenty-three pairs of Thebans, forty-six warriors who had been fated to die. And rescue them he did . . . Charon, Lysis and the other forty-four men of the original Sacred Band of Thebes . . . by opening a dimensional portal from Chaeronea to Lemuria, where they were taken, trained and made part of the greater Sacred Band. This is the also the story of Nicodemus, who is called Niko and Stealth, a true weapon of the gods, of his own struggle with becoming the favorite, the avatar of a god, and his intimate relation with the goddess Harmony. After training and orientation, the Thebans do their best to settle in, to become one with Tempus\u2019s Sacred Band. But it\u2019s difficult for many of them, because memories of the Chaeronean battleplain, memories of seeing friends and comrades die in a battle in which they were fated to die keep intruding on their thoughts. Dreams of Chaeronea haunt their hearts and give pain to their souls. Various versions of the \u201cmantra,\u201d Long spears, thunking into flesh. Men staggering backward, impaled, weeping, are a recurring theme throughout this story, as men dream of Chaeronea and that far-away field of battle. What these survivors remember and what they suffer adds a personal and very poignant touch to this novel, for as we turn the pages we get to know these men, these warriors, these heroes. Now, Tempus has plans for his new and greater Sacred Band: to return to Sanctuary, that infamous \u201cborder town between morality and immortality, its feet in hell and its fingers stretched up to heaven.\u201d Sanctuary: the center of activity in the classic Thieves\u2019 World Series, where I first discovered Tempus, known then as the Hell-Hound. In Sanctuary once again, Tempus plans to settle old scores and tidy loose ends. But he and the Sacred Band get more than they bargain for when they return to that \u201cplace where anything may happen, and sometimes does, when wills are strong and mysteries invoked.\u201d For instance, there\u2019s the warrior Kouras, soon to become a favorite and an avatar of the god Vashanka, who once favored Tempus. How Kouras deals with becoming one with a Storm God and his love for a girl named Shawme is just one of the many sub-plots that grace this novel, which owes so much to history, mythology and the sheer brilliance, talent and imagination of Janet and Chris Morris. A young, hot-headed warrior named Shamshi, who has wizard\u2019s blood, gets things going when he murders a harlot one night. Apprehended by the Band, he is stripped naked, sewn inside the hide of an animal, and placed on the altar of Enlil, the Storm God. \u201cIf no beast eats him in the night, then we free him in the morning. The lesson\u2019s done. Punishment finished. He\u2019s cleansed by the storm god of any taint. If the god sends a bear or a wolf or a panther to tear him apart, then that is Enlil\u2019s verdict and no one interferes. But if anyone cuts him loose tonight or tries to save him, we hunt down all of them and kill them.\u201d So Tempus says to his men. Harsh treatment? Not at all. This punishment is most fitting to the crime in the context of the novel and the world in which the Sacred Band lives. But Shamshi has patience, and there is one who walks in dreams and shadows who has his eye on the boy with wizard\u2019s blood. Thus, when Shamshi is freed, he is now bound to his savior in body, mind, heart and soul. He then sets out on the road of vengeance, uses his skills as a warrior and some other talents and gifts and help he has been given, and begins to pick off the Sacred Band, one by one. But his main target, the man he feels has betrayed him, and the one he most wants to kill is Nicodemus: Niko, whose war-name is Stealth. Now the manhunt begins as Sham preys on the Sacred Band, killing them with single-minded determination and cold-blooded ruthlessness. Night after night, men die. A stable burns one night and horses die in a very tense and moving chapter. Other powers are brought into play as Tempus and the Band balance duty with their personal manhunt. Old friends and comrades come to aid in the hunt: Jihan, daughter of a sea god and Tempus\u2019s lover; Randal the Mage, Ischade the Witch, and even Cime, Evening Star of Lemuria and sister of Tempus, are called in to help. But there is more behind this manhunt than just tracking down a rapist and a murderer, for the stage is being set for a coming battle, a battle for Meridian, the realm of Askelon, entelechy of dreams and shadows. This battle will test the Sacred Band as it has never been tested before, and they will be hard-pressed because worlds collide in this battle when Askelon brings Meridian to Sanctuary, and the battle becomes a shadow, an echo of the great battle of Chaeronea. And in this battle, not only the mettle of the Sacred Band will be put to the test, but that of the original Sacred Band of Thebes, as well\u2014those forty-six warriors who had been fated to die but were rescued by Tempus. They will not only be fighting both old and new foes, but old comrades, as well\u2014comrades who died at the hands of the Mesopotamians. Tempus and Niko will be tested in this battle, too. To the limits of their skills and power, strength and endurance they will be tested. Question is: will Enlil the Storm God come to the aid of Tempus, his avatar? And what of Niko? Will the goddess Harmony continue to watch over him? Guard and protect him? Can Askelon, a god himself, be defeated? And what of Shamshi? He\u2019s a great character because, for all that he is evil, he is also one to be pitied. He is a victim of forces and powers beyond his understanding, as well as a perpetrator of heinous acts. He is a pawn in the hands of something greater than himself, a puppet and a tool used by gods and the Fates. The Sacred Band is much more than great Heroic Fantasy: it is classic literature, filled with sub-plots, a fine cast of well-drawn characters, insight and wisdom and recurring themes of honor, faith, brotherhood and love. This novel spoke to me on a personal level because it\u2019s a story of pure human drama and powerful emotions. While the characters are larger than life, they are also richly-drawn and written with great depth of insight and humanity. What also rings true with the Sacred Band is their military tradition, their ethos. These characters are soldiers, warriors. They are not only mythic heroes, they are also everyday heroes; real people, everyday people who face extraordinary odds and foes. They are true to all who have served in any branch of the military. This is not sword and sorcery, this is not elves and dwarves and high-concept fantasy . . . The Sacred Band has the sharp edge of reality, the harshness, the bitterness and the danger of the real world. Love, loyalty, honor\u2014these are the ideals by which these characters live and die. This novel is epic in scope. It is mythic by heritage. It is positively Homeric. This is a 5-Star novel written by two highly-talented writers who have been around for a very long time, who have not lost their chops and their edge, and have not slowed down. There is so much in this novel to enjoy, so much I haven\u2019t even touched on. All I can say is that this is classic stuff. Buy it. Read it. You\u2019ll see. As Tempus and the Sacred Band would say, \u201cLife to you, and everlasting glory.\u201d ...more This is the first Sacred Band story I have ever read and I'm left wondering how in the heck I overlooked this amazing world created by Janet Morris and Chris Morris in the 1980s. (Whoops, did I just carbon date myself there?) One of the things I found so great about this book is that it doesn't matter that I missed all that cool stuff in the '80s because I picked this one up and dove right. Sure there were a very few allusions to prior stories, but not enough to make you feel like you've really This is the first Sacred Band story I have ever read and I'm left wondering how in the heck I overlooked this amazing world created by Janet Morris and Chris Morris in the 1980s. (Whoops, did I just carbon date myself there?) One of the things I found so great about this book is that it doesn't matter that I missed all that cool stuff in the '80s because I picked this one up and dove right. Sure there were a very few allusions to prior stories, but not enough to make you feel like you've really missed out on something major. This book stands alone and does a great job of doing it. What happens when gods, fates, and other supernatural forces dally with the lives of men? Nothing good. We find Tempus leading his Sacred Band of Stepsons into harms way in an effort to save the fated dead on the field of battle, setting off a chain of events even gods and goddesses can't control. If they are successful, how will men sworn to fight and die alongside their brethren find a way to live with themselves? The supposed son of a god, a seer, a wizarding boy, and one blessed by a goddess come to earth. How might these four young Sacred Banders effect the outcome? The only way to find out is to read this wonderful book for yourself. When I finished The Sacred Band, before I realized it had happened I had taken my Kindle back to the first page and read three pages again. It must have been my subconscious trying it's best not to leave Sanctuary leaving my new found friends behind. I cannot wait to get my hands on another Sacred Band tome. ...more In a world of books that try to capture the vintage literacy of times past but fail, it is refreshing and exhilarating to finally find a book in this day and age that one can honestly say is an instant classic. The story is already complex, but then you throw in an impressive collection of characters, each getting their turn in the the spotlight. It's simply mind-blowing, none fade away and there aren't any loose ends, simply a remarkable feat. The numerous characters (The Sacred Band and the The In a world of books that try to capture the vintage literacy of times past but fail, it is refreshing and exhilarating to finally find a book in this day and age that one can honestly say is an instant classic. The story is already complex, but then you throw in an impressive collection of characters, each getting their turn in the the spotlight. It's simply mind-blowing, none fade away and there aren't any loose ends, simply a remarkable feat. The numerous characters (The Sacred Band and the Thebans) are sewn together so seamlessly that what should look like a quilt is more like a painted masterpiece. If I had to fault the book, the only thing I can say is that I hit a snag in the beginning. I had a few problems understanding and remembering who was who, because the characters have their given name and also their war name, and in some cases a god-given name and I am notoriously awful when it comes to names. (So, the fault is really just me.) However, it didn't take long for me to catch on to a plot this intriguing and dangerous. The authors knew the dynamics of war and the sequences leading up to it, everything was perfectly played out like a good chess game and the fun part was you could see it from so many different points of view. The Sacred Band took me into a world of gods, demigods, mortals, and other beings. Each with their own affections and opinions toward one another; hatred, respect and most importantly love. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and will be recommending it to all of my friends and family. - J.S.Turner ...more Hands down my favorite so far. The addition of the Sacred Band of Thebes and their goddess made this book just superb! We meet back up with one of my favorite characters (other than Niko), Ischade the necromant. What can I say about Ischade and Strat other than WOW... Even without the authors going into any detail, the love those two have for each other! It almost stole the book away from Niko (who, once again goes through Hell and back, but emerges stronger, better, more complete). To me, this Hands down my favorite so far. The addition of the Sacred Band of Thebes and their goddess made this book just superb! We meet back up with one of my favorite characters (other than Niko), Ischade the necromant. What can I say about Ischade and Strat other than WOW... Even without the authors going into any detail, the love those two have for each other! It almost stole the book away from Niko (who, once again goes through Hell and back, but emerges stronger, better, more complete). To me, this book was more about love than any of the other books. We have Niko's love for Tempus, for Randal, for Harmony, for the band. Tempus has his love for Niko, the band, Cime and Jihan and Kouras. Crit with his worrisome love for Strat, who loves both Crit and the dangerous Ischade. We have a goddess' love for her fighters and their love for her. All this love floating around...and not a lot of words about it, but it is THERE...you can't help but notice it! We have the opposite of love- the hatred that Shamshi and Askelon have for my poor, poor Nikodemus. This story line just floored me. What a horrid match those two make. The entelechy of dreams and dark mage blooded, Banderan trained youth. The hatred those two have for Niko and Tempus just drips with venom and malice. As much as I love Niko, that storyline was my favorite in this book. Shamshi turned up at the weirdest times, causing strife and confusion. Just freaking brilliant! And we add to all that emotion , capping it off with one of the best written, most concise battles that I have ever had the pleasure to read. I read it three times to make sure I didn't miss anything, and I am still sure I did. Well choreographed action, no wasted words. This is one of the few battles I have read where I could SEE the action unfolding before my eyes. I could see the spears and arrows, some hitting home and causing great injury and others being intercepted by shields, I could see the masses of fighters with all the various injuries. I could hear the shouts, feel the fear running through the fighters, I could almost taste the metallic flavor of blood (okay, I may have bitten the inside of my lip...anxiety for all my guys just about did me in!) These books have all picked me up and plopped me into the midst of The Sacred Band and made me experience it all. When all is said and done, the final scene on the spit by the sea..yeah, I cried....it is emotional, poignant and wraps it all up with a new military patch and commendations. I dare you to read the voice of Abarsis at the end when he talks to Riddler. And that right there, that apparent first had exposure, is why I just adore these books, the characters and most of all the authors. Total immersion in the history, the pantheon of gods, and human nature- the good, the bad and the worst.. There are no better books that I have found that call to a history buff who is also a lover of heroic fantasy books. Life to you, and everlasting glory! ...more The Sacred Band \u2013 Fantasy /Heroic/Mythological Adventure. 5 stars. One of the signs of a great book, for me at least, is the urge to continue reading it despite the fact it is very late or there is something else I really should be doing. This was one such book. Spawned from the Thieves\u2019 World series and interwoven with historical research and ancient sources the story covers the rescue of the missing members of the Sacred Band of Thebes, who fought at the Battle of Chaeronea and whose whereabouts The Sacred Band \u2013 Fantasy /Heroic/Mythological Adventure. 5 stars. One of the signs of a great book, for me at least, is the urge to continue reading it despite the fact it is very late or there is something else I really should be doing. This was one such book. Spawned from the Thieves\u2019 World series and interwoven with historical research and ancient sources the story covers the rescue of the missing members of the Sacred Band of Thebes, who fought at the Battle of Chaeronea and whose whereabouts are unknown to history. In the style of the myths of old, such Homer, this is a great adventure filled with war \u2013 and there is a LOT of that - love, loyalty and bravery far beyond the call of duty, not to mention interfering deities, wicked wizards, conflict and change, balance and harmony. The world of Tempus and his companions has been extensively researched, and it shows, for the world is extremely rich, totally believable and yet utterly fantastic. The reader experiences a ride of epic and heroic proportions, from the graphic battle scenes, including the shock and loss, to the weapons, armour, lifestyles and religion of the world. The characters are engaging, varied and interesting; from the enigmatic and warlike Tempus to the young Niko, who strives for balance. Heroes abound as they strive to fight an enemy like no other and one who could destroy them and all they hold dear. An excellent, exciting and totalling enthralling adventure and I look forward to reading many more by this author. ...more The Sacred Band starts with the Sacred Band of Stepsons, led by thier immortal leader, Tempus Thales, avatar of the ancient storm god Enlil, saving 46 warriors of the Sacred Band of Thebes, an ancient Greek warrior fighting unit, from thier fated death. The consequences of cheating destiny and death and altering history reverberate throughout the novel. Fans of the series will not be disappointed, as favorite characters and locales from the earlier novels and stories are present in the book. The The Sacred Band starts with the Sacred Band of Stepsons, led by thier immortal leader, Tempus Thales, avatar of the ancient storm god Enlil, saving 46 warriors of the Sacred Band of Thebes, an ancient Greek warrior fighting unit, from thier fated death. The consequences of cheating destiny and death and altering history reverberate throughout the novel. Fans of the series will not be disappointed, as favorite characters and locales from the earlier novels and stories are present in the book. The Stepsons, including Niko, Critias, Straton, Sync, and others even return to the ill-fated city of Sanctuary along with their new found brothers in battle, the 23 pairs of Theban warriors. What follows is an action packed, fast paced novel filled with battles, mysteries, murder, sorcery, precient visions, philosophy, mythology, mysticism, gods, sexuality, and explorations into the relationships amongst the Stepsons and Thebans and how they resolve the integration of their separate Sacred Bands. I have waited years for new stories from what are some of my favorite characters and settings in fantasy, and I was thrilled to read this new novel by Janet Morris and Chris Morris. If you love action packed fantasy with rich settings and complex, deep characters, then you will love The Sacred Band. ...more Finally - a skillfully wrought story without dragons or trolls or elves... no magic rings, and no quest for a talisman to save the universe. Instead, what Janet and Chris Morris have accomplished is a compelling and suspenseful story that incorporates superbly researched history woven into a mythic tale of human drama. Deftly balancing the complexities of human emotion as 4th century BC Greeks and Thebans deal with war, traitors, and jealous gods, the authors have imprinted The Sacred Band as a Finally - a skillfully wrought story without dragons or trolls or elves... no magic rings, and no quest for a talisman to save the universe. Instead, what Janet and Chris Morris have accomplished is a compelling and suspenseful story that incorporates superbly researched history woven into a mythic tale of human drama. Deftly balancing the complexities of human emotion as 4th century BC Greeks and Thebans deal with war, traitors, and jealous gods, the authors have imprinted The Sacred Band as a **must read**. While there are many strengths to the novel, there are two that I find worthy of mention: believable characters (especially as it relates to dialogue, which translates into \"do I care about these characters\") and finely crafted imagery. One of my \"pet peeves\" is stilted language in any novel - formulaic rather than real. Add to that the dilemma of narrative/imagery that affects all novels - either too much or too little. Thankfully, the authors have blended just the right mix of believable dialogue (and thus characters) with exceptional imagery. The result is a story that sucks one in, building with each succeeding page. Not only did I care about the characters, I was sorely tempted to skip ahead! Bottom line - get it now. You won't be disappointed! ...more Tempus Thales, long-time leader of the Sacred Band of Stepsons, intervenes at the heroic and historical battle of Chaeronea to ensure the survival of 23 pairs of fighters from the Scared band of Thebes. His intention, to incorporate them into his own unique force of fighting men. Little does he realize the repercussions to come... But how to explain it without giving anything vital away? Let me just say - Jealous God's intercede. Shades and Fates are added to the mix. Even Askelon, prime entelechy Tempus Thales, long-time leader of the Sacred Band of Stepsons, intervenes at the heroic and historical battle of Chaeronea to ensure the survival of 23 pairs of fighters from the Scared band of Thebes. His intention, to incorporate them into his own unique force of fighting men. Little does he realize the repercussions to come... But how to explain it without giving anything vital away? Let me just say - Jealous God's intercede. Shades and Fates are added to the mix. Even Askelon, prime entelechy of the 7th sphere, can't help but interfere. Chosen Avatars run amok. And all around them, nightmares of Chaeronea haunt everyone's dreams and people begin to die. A certain conflict is fomenting, one that will turn Sanctuary into a wasteland...But what will be the outcome? Well, for that, you'll have to read the actual story itself. It's an epic tale on a grand scale, and one you will never forget. If you love well written high-action adventure, delivered in a stunning style that will leave you wanting more, then THIS is definitely a 'must-read' event for you. A keepsake for the bookshelf to treasure as the years go by. ...more At 600 pages, this epic story is not for the faint-hearted, but for those who venture into the fantastic world of ancient gods, wars and battles, \u201cThe Sacred Band\u201d is immensely rewarding. The writing style is meant to pace the reader, but by doing so, I found that the images of people and events were deeply impressed on my mind, particularly the battle of Chaeronea in 338 BCE, which is the central theme of this story. For those familiar with classic history, this Fantasy version would be particu At 600 pages, this epic story is not for the faint-hearted, but for those who venture into the fantastic world of ancient gods, wars and battles, \u201cThe Sacred Band\u201d is immensely rewarding. The writing style is meant to pace the reader, but by doing so, I found that the images of people and events were deeply impressed on my mind, particularly the battle of Chaeronea in 338 BCE, which is the central theme of this story. For those familiar with classic history, this Fantasy version would be particularly exciting, but even for those of us who just like to enjoy a good book, The Sacred Band won\u2019t disappoint. The writing style epitomizes true literature of high quality, making it a very rewarding reading experience on its own merit, regardless of historic basis or the fantasy genre. The ancient world relied heavily on its belief in gods and how those gods controlled or interacted with mortal man, and this makes an excellent platform for a special kind of Fantasy novel. The characters, gods, avatar of gods, and other beings in between the heavenly and earthly realm are gradually introduced and developed, and near the end of the book I found myself feeling well acquainted and even fond of the main characters; Tempus, Niko, Strat, Crit, the Theban goddess Harmony, among others, and was anxious to read the outcome of the climactic battle, hoping they would all survive unscathed. Getting involved with the characters, their lives and destinies in such a way is always a sign of a good story and a well-written book, and for me personally, \u201cThe Sacred Band\u201d has made a part of obscure history come to life in my mind and thereby also changed my perception of this part of history. ...more This is a meaty book and my slugs and I love meaty things... We could really get our teeth into this and devour the rich content as it contained all things that we love most - war, heroism, mythology and love. Written with care and woven together beautifully, it tells the story of a challenge to the gods and a mighty rescue - it reminds me of 300 meets Saving Private Ryan meets Zulu. With great, in-depth characters and vividly drawn imagery, this is a book that cannot be put down. If you're inte This is a meaty book and my slugs and I love meaty things... We could really get our teeth into this and devour the rich content as it contained all things that we love most - war, heroism, mythology and love. Written with care and woven together beautifully, it tells the story of a challenge to the gods and a mighty rescue - it reminds me of 300 meets Saving Private Ryan meets Zulu. With great, in-depth characters and vividly drawn imagery, this is a book that cannot be put down. If you're interested in Greek mythology then The Sacred Band is one to get. ...more (I was gifted with a copy of this book by the author for the purpose of giving an honest review.) I really didn't know what to expect with The Sacred Band when the author requested a read-and-review. I was not familiar with the Thieves World shared fantasy world and the book looks like it's based on Greek history and mythology, perhaps even set in ancient Greece, which isn't really my thing, but it looked intriguing so I decided to give it a go, and I'm glad I did. The Sacred Band is an exciting a (I was gifted with a copy of this book by the author for the purpose of giving an honest review.) I really didn't know what to expect with The Sacred Band when the author requested a read-and-review. I was not familiar with the Thieves World shared fantasy world and the book looks like it's based on Greek history and mythology, perhaps even set in ancient Greece, which isn't really my thing, but it looked intriguing so I decided to give it a go, and I'm glad I did. The Sacred Band is an exciting and deeply emotional epic fantasy about a band of warriors, dedicated to each other as brothers, who find themselves in a battle to restore their integrity and right some old imbalances in their world. It touches on ancient Greece, when the Sacred Band of Stepsons comes to our world to save a group of otherwise-doomed Theban warriors (in an incident based on a historical battle). Then the action returns to Thieves World, a world where gods and demigods, wizards and mortals interact in a struggle for control. A member of the Sacred Band of Stepsons then commits a terrible crime, stirring up other forces and bringing old tensions and imbalances to a head in a great, epic, magical battle. The writing is gorgeous, rich, colorful, and emotional. It slips between present and past tense, which at first I found confusing. But when I got used to it, the passages in present tense gave a very immediate and impressionistic feeling to the story. This book is a later stand-alone novel that follows an earlier trilogy (beginning with Beyond Sanctuary ). The author recommended that I start with The Sacred Band, and I was able to pick up on the characters, setting, and backstory pretty well, but I might have had an easier time understanding who the characters are, what they want and what drives them, and what was at stake for them, if I had started with the earlier trilogy. The Beyond trilogy is now on my TBR list, and I'm looking forward to catching up with the characters and events before The Sacred Band. It took me a while to really get a grasp on the characters, again because I was coming into their story later on, but eventually each one stood out to me as an individual, well-drawn character. I particularly liked Niko (although a brief mention of his activities in a brothel left me somewhat less sympathetic and admiring of him than maybe the reader is intended to be), and Kouras, one of the youngest Stepsons. There are a number of admirable female characters as well, though I was a little disappointed that they are all goddesses or other supernatural beings. There is no major female character who is an ordinary mortal. Thieves World appears to be very much a man's world, with ordinary women being relegated to the roles of dancing girls, servants, and prostitutes. For a 5-star review, this review seems to have a lot of reservations, but in the end, despite the difficulties I had with the book, I couldn't put it down. It's a long book and it took me a while because I was reading it during a particularly busy period, but every chance I got, I picked it up just to read a little more to find out how the characters were doing and what happened next. I was deeply emotionally touched by the honor and loyalty that the members of the Sacred Band feel for each other, and intrigued enough by the characters, events, and world that I'm looking forward to reading the trilogy that comes before. ...more The Sacred Band is an epic story, based on Plato's Sacred Squadron, which consisted of pairs of male lovers that formed the elite force of the Theban army in the 4th century BC. The authors open it without wasting any time to hint that some of the characters, like Tempus (AKA the Riddler) have multiple names. You are invited right into their midst. It is by association, and by living next to them as if you were part of the band, that these names start to connect for you\u2014even without the benefit The Sacred Band is an epic story, based on Plato's Sacred Squadron, which consisted of pairs of male lovers that formed the elite force of the Theban army in the 4th century BC. The authors open it without wasting any time to hint that some of the characters, like Tempus (AKA the Riddler) have multiple names. You are invited right into their midst. It is by association, and by living next to them as if you were part of the band, that these names start to connect for you\u2014even without the benefit of an official introduction. You will find yourself immersed in a mythological world, among mortal and immortal beings, whose deeds and reflections carry poetic, symbolic meanings. \u201cThe Fates swoop in, looking Tempus in the eye. And he can see them, this man of many years, who has beside him a creature of wind and wave.\u201d Action is delivered in a sensual manner that puts you right there, in the skin of the characters, seeing and hearing everything they do, and at the same rhythm: \u201cWhen he had walked as far as the dockside along the swampy marsh, he saw a flash of leg, a gleam of skin. It was too tempting. He gave chase. He chased and chased it, into the Maze, and into a warren of alleys and hovels. He was about to give up when he caught sight of it again: a flash of skin, low cursing, heavy breathing and a clutter in an alley.\u201d I was especially moved by the scene of burning stables. \u201cHorses screaming. Men running. Water in buckets; never enough. Black smoke billowing from the barracks, making men and horses cough and wheeze. Lurid flames; evil, awful light from hell as hungry fire eats up men and horses, hopes and dreams.\u201d I find it an amazingly unique that this story is the product of creative collaboration between its two authors, Janet Morris and Chris Morris. Seamlessly executed, this is more than a story\u2014it is a triumphant imagination of the possibility to rise above ourselves, so that everyday reality is but a shadow of what we can dream. Five stars. ...more The Sacred Band offers it all, history and legend wrapped in a beautiful story. This is one of the novels that proves very difficult to put down. Epic conflicts between mortals and immortals, Gods and humans, history and philosophy, love and honor, along with breathtaking battles of epic proportions. I loved the way the reality intertwined with the legend, how realistic the characters were, so easy to relate to, their battles and dilemmas, their way of life. I found myself reading through all 60 The Sacred Band offers it all, history and legend wrapped in a beautiful story. This is one of the novels that proves very difficult to put down. Epic conflicts between mortals and immortals, Gods and humans, history and philosophy, love and honor, along with breathtaking battles of epic proportions. I loved the way the reality intertwined with the legend, how realistic the characters were, so easy to relate to, their battles and dilemmas, their way of life. I found myself reading through all 600 pages in almost one breath, wishing it was a longer story yet. Highly recommend! ...more Highly Recommended - An Epic 5***** The Sacred Band by Janet Morris & Chris Morris Without doubt, a magnificent read of epic proportion filling the pages of this stunning work presented by these two authors. The Sacred Band is full-to-the-brim of myth, adventure, ghosts and gods entangled with love and war in this gripping tale. The writers certainly know how to captivate their readers with strong characters, battle scenes, heroic gestures and torment. The book has a very 'real' essence and you Highly Recommended - An Epic 5***** The Sacred Band by Janet Morris & Chris Morris Without doubt, a magnificent read of epic proportion filling the pages of this stunning work presented by these two authors. The Sacred Band is full-to-the-brim of myth, adventure, ghosts and gods entangled with love and war in this gripping tale. The writers certainly know how to captivate their readers with strong characters, battle scenes, heroic gestures and torment. The book has a very 'real' essence and you will feel you are part of this wonderfully descriptive amazing page-turner. You will certainly struggle to pull yourself away from this one. I can't believe I haven't stumbled upon these authors before - time to search through the other numerous books written - true genius! An extremely well-written novel that will remain in your thoughts for a very long time. Highly recommended - an epic 5***** ...more Epic, powerful, and well-researched historical tale of over 500 pages. I didn't want to put the book down! I'll be looking for more books from this author. Can't get enough of this! Highly recommended. The author has created a plausible world. Janet writes so well that the story that has you in it's grip through battles, dark places and dishonour until the very end. The Deadly Caress A rich tapestry of myth, war, love, and honor woven with great care by two outstanding authors. This epic book is reminiscent of classic literature and I'd recommend it highly to lovers of such. Sword and Sandal Fantasy, Robert E. Howard Style \"The Sacred Band\" is a classic work of heroic fantasy. This novel takes place deep within the established rules of Janet Morris's Thieves World, and I like that it doesn't waste any time on throwaway passages designed to \"catch up\" those readers who are new to the realm. This is a sink or swim type novel, and the reader as well as the characters involved are not the least bit coddled. The result is that you start to acquire a sense of achievement a Sword and Sandal Fantasy, Robert E. Howard Style \"The Sacred Band\" is a classic work of heroic fantasy. This novel takes place deep within the established rules of Janet Morris's Thieves World, and I like that it doesn't waste any time on throwaway passages designed to \"catch up\" those readers who are new to the realm. This is a sink or swim type novel, and the reader as well as the characters involved are not the least bit coddled. The result is that you start to acquire a sense of achievement as you piece together all the clues, as if you have earned the right to enjoy this world and become a member of its legions of fans. The first Thieves World novel is \"Beyond Sanctuary,\" and I believe I might tackle that one now that I've had a taste of Tempus and the Sacred Band of Stepsons. Janet and Chris Morris create a great classic ambiance in \"The Sacred Band.\" I found myself imagining a setting that looked much like Dante's version of Hell decorated and populated with people and artifacts out of Greek Mythology. The action is instant and non-stop, and the characters are not \"squeaky clean\" by any stretch of the imagination. For example, early on in the book Tempus takes a troop of new recruits into a brothel and decides to just wait and see \"how things play out\" when he begins hearing terrifying screams from the room of one of his charges. When the prostitute in question turns up dead a few days later, Tempus embarks on an investigation that is more about maintaining his own autonomy over his group than correcting any wrong. I like the fact that Janet and Chris Morris have the courage to make strong statements on wartime morality, rather than try to push modern society's sometimes hypocritical views of right and wrong into a setting that simply cannot support it (Thieves World deals with individuals who have bigger issues than whether or not the phone store has run out of the 4G portable you've been dreaming about for six months--yes, there was a time when people had REAL issues to deal with people). The Morris's make some interesting stylistic choices in their writing. Quite a bit of the novel is written in the present tense. At first I found the switches from past to present tense a bit jarring, but after a while I began to enjoy the emphasis on immediacy that the present tense passages provided. The tense shifts help put you in the proper frame of mind to correctly comprehend the more traditionally written text. This is a novel that's happening here and now, and there is a certain sensory overload that the writing creates when you allow yourself to fall into step with it. Overall, \"The Sacred Band\" evokes the brutality and lyricism of Robert E. Howard combined with the old school \"sword and sandal\" movies we all grew up watching. For those of you who aren't quite up for the challenge of swimming in the deep end, you might want to check out \"Beyond Sanctuary.\" For the rest of you, buckle up and prepare to enjoy the ride! ...more So engrossing! I adore ancient history. 4.5 Stars It's been such a long time since the last book that I'd forgotten how much I liked these characters. This is better than any other book I've read by these authors, and I'm pretty sure I've read almost everything they've written. If you haven't read the Thieve's World books and know the background of these characters, who they are, why they're important, how they related to each other and how they became who they are in this book, then this book won't be nearly as satisfying, possibly eve 4.5 Stars It's been such a long time since the last book that I'd forgotten how much I liked these characters. This is better than any other book I've read by these authors, and I'm pretty sure I've read almost everything they've written. If you haven't read the Thieve's World books and know the background of these characters, who they are, why they're important, how they related to each other and how they became who they are in this book, then this book won't be nearly as satisfying, possibly even confusing. But still worth a read I think. If you do know these characters then this book is a must read. The best part about this book is that the story is complete. Beginning to end, the plot is wrapped up to a very satisfying conclusion. I loved Tempus in this book, he seemed to be more mature than he was in the earlier books and more like the character I'd thought he should be to have the kind of devotion he does from his men. All the supporting characters have room to breathe and add to the story line. One of the best things about this book is that it pulled in all the best, most interesting characters and got them involved in the plot then gave them a good conclusion so that they weren't left parked, languishing somewhere in the story universe with no closure. The plot is great! I love how the authors mixed fantasy with history again. I even had to google some terms to get an accurate mental picture of what the characters were wearing or using because it was historically accurate, which means I had no real idea what it was. The only slightly disappointing thing is that in this book the authors glossed over the \"divine friends\" aspect of the Sacred Band. I got a feeling it should have been more a part of the Band than the authors made it out to be. In previous books it seemed to be more important than in this book. In today's social climate, I'd have thought the authors would be pretty fearless in being true to that aspect of the Band. ...more Awe-inspiring. Lyrical form and eloquence meet together in a heady tale that takes place inside of the Thieve's World Universe, this revisited by the author with a love that is normally given by a mother to a beloved child. Janet Morris once again sets a standard for what a writer can only hope to achieve, that of creating beauty upon a blank page with such artistry that the words themselves take on a life that is eternal. If you have not previously read a Thieve's world novel, it is not impossi Awe-inspiring. Lyrical form and eloquence meet together in a heady tale that takes place inside of the Thieve's World Universe, this revisited by the author with a love that is normally given by a mother to a beloved child. Janet Morris once again sets a standard for what a writer can only hope to achieve, that of creating beauty upon a blank page with such artistry that the words themselves take on a life that is eternal. If you have not previously read a Thieve's world novel, it is not impossible for this book to stand alone, however, you will surely want to start with the first book in the series after reading The Sacred Band and you will not regret having done so. Janet Morris has always been the kind of writer whose word craft has reached such a level of brilliance that certain passages have a tendency to remain with the reader long after the journey with the author has been shared. Ethereal and unforgettable, Janet Morris once again lends us her artistry and an invitation to immerse ourselves in a place where such dreams are made possible. ...more As a long-time fan of the Sacred Band of Stepsons created in the Thieves' World(r) series I was thrilled to discover a new Sacred Band novel! This novel continues the story of Tempus and his Sacred Band of Stepsons after the last book in the Thieves' World(r) series and takes them from the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC back to Sanctuary, with more characters, the remnants of The Sacred Band of Thebes, and some wonderful women! You will NOT regret this purchase! This book is a theomachy: a battle between mortals and gods. Tempus, favorite of the storm-god, and the Stepsons rescue twenty-three pairs from the doomed Sacred Band of Thebes during the Battle of Chaeronea and take them first to Lemuria and then to Sanctuary. The angry Greek Fates and the Theban fighters' patron goddess, Harmonia, follow. The clash of cultures between the 338 BCE Greeks and the multicultural fantasy characters of Sanctuary becomes deadly. The Sacred Band must demonstrate Unflin This book is a theomachy: a battle between mortals and gods. Tempus, favorite of the storm-god, and the Stepsons rescue twenty-three pairs from the doomed Sacred Band of Thebes during the Battle of Chaeronea and take them first to Lemuria and then to Sanctuary. The angry Greek Fates and the Theban fighters' patron goddess, Harmonia, follow. The clash of cultures between the 338 BCE Greeks and the multicultural fantasy characters of Sanctuary becomes deadly. The Sacred Band must demonstrate Unflinching dedication and unswerving loyalty to one another to overcome the terrible things done by men and women, sorcerers and gods. ...more As a long-time fan of the Sacred Band of Stepsons created in the Thieves' World(r) series I was thrilled to discover a new Sacred Band novel! This novel continues the story of Tempus and his Sacred Band of Stepsons after the last book in the Thieves' World(r) series and takes them from the Battle of Chaeronea in 338 BC back to Sanctuary, with more characters, the remnants of The Sacred Band of Thebes, and some wonderful women! You will NOT regret this purchase! Having had my eyes on this book for a while, I was so happy when I was finally given the opportunity to receive a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Let's just say that I wasn't disappointed! This is a book of 500+ page magnitude, that's for sure. I love the way the author so beautifully weaved the intricate stories and lives of the characters together with the epic mix of gods, demigods and mortals. Also, I really appreciate the fact that the author managed to steer away f Having had my eyes on this book for a while, I was so happy when I was finally given the opportunity to receive a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. Let's just say that I wasn't disappointed! This is a book of 500+ page magnitude, that's for sure. I love the way the author so beautifully weaved the intricate stories and lives of the characters together with the epic mix of gods, demigods and mortals. Also, I really appreciate the fact that the author managed to steer away from any stereotypes, this just made the whole book that much more unique. Definitely looking forward to reading more books by this author! ...more Took a bit to get into it, what with all the action and the many names and characters, who have many names. But after about 30 pages in, I finally was able to start comprehending this incredible 'Band'. The writing is rather stilted, making you pay close attention, feels like it's being translated from an ancient tome to modern English, which added to the appeal for me. Lines like \"Some daylight remained, even if the light had that pearly quality of supernal tantrums abating.\" Graphic, violent y Took a bit to get into it, what with all the action and the many names and characters, who have many names. But after about 30 pages in, I finally was able to start comprehending this incredible 'Band'. The writing is rather stilted, making you pay close attention, feels like it's being translated from an ancient tome to modern English, which added to the appeal for me. Lines like \"Some daylight remained, even if the light had that pearly quality of supernal tantrums abating.\" Graphic, violent yet almost poetic, this is a series I'm going to enjoy indeed. Special thanks to Walter Rhein and Sarah Hulcy for introducing me to this series. Many thanks actually! ...more I really liked this book enough to give it 5 stars. I was transported into another world. It really has it all: history, conflicts between mortals and immortals, legends, gods, the fight for love and honor. And epic descriptive battles! The characters were well developed and realistic. It's a long story but well worth the read. Enjoyed it very much. 565 pages of epic awesomeness. A fantastic tale told well of a time gone by. Great writing that holds you from page one and holding the reader for 565 pages is no easy task. Unless you are Janet Morris. I do highly recommend this book. DISCLAIMER: I received a free digital copy in return for an honest review.<---C>Janet E. Morris</---C>", "Title": "The Sacred Band"},
