{"Comments": "Several lessons to be learned from Ernest Hemingway's first wife on how he got his second one: 1) If you can't be sweet and submissive at least be lively and rich. 2) If you still have post-pregnancy weight from a baby your husband didn't really want and have to stay in to look after it, then don't let the lively and rich (<---B>and better-dressed</---B>) woman come on holiday with you.<---F> Regularly</---F>. 3) If you wake up to find that you and your husband have been joined by a naked female on his side of the bed - wha Several lessons to be learned from Ernest Hemingway's first wife on how he got his second one: 1) If you can't be sweet and submissive at least be lively and rich. 2) If you still have post-pregnancy weight from a baby your husband didn't really want and have to stay in to look after it, then don't let the lively and rich (and better-dressed) woman come on holiday with you. Regularly. 3) If you wake up to find that you and your husband have been joined by a naked female on his side of the bed - what are you waiting for? You should be gone before they wake up. Stupid woman. If you are the woman who hopes to be the second wife and you did a lot of shit trying to get your man away from his wife, realise that there are a lot of women out there at least as rich,<---M> lively and worshipping as you</---M>, and what's more they have (as you had) the advantage of novelty. But she didn't. Stupid woman. He went through two more wives after that and then shot himself. I knew Margaux Hemingway, one of his grand-daughters, and she used to talk of shooting herself. Said that suicide ran in her family. But she didn't. She took an overdose. St.... ..... ...more <+++>The Paris Wife</+++> made me remember why I love historical fiction so much. McLain not only captures the atmosphere, but she does it with striking prose. I was not surprised to learn she'd published a book of poetry prior to this. I just finished this book and I'm a little overwhelmed by it, but I'll do my best to form coherent thoughts. First of all, I cannot stress enough what an amazing job the author did of capturing the atmosphere of post-war Paris. Not that I was there to experience it, but aft <+++>The Paris Wife</+++> made me remember why I love historical fiction so much. McLain not only captures the atmosphere, but she does it with striking prose. I was not surprised to learn she'd published a book of poetry prior to this. I just finished this book and I'm a little overwhelmed by it, but I'll do my best to form coherent thoughts. First of all, I cannot stress enough what an amazing job the author did of capturing the atmosphere of post-war Paris. Not that I was there to experience it, but after reading this book, I feel like I was. Like I walked the streets, participated in the extravagance, the decadence, the debauchery, the fashions and fads of the time, the whiskey and wine, the cigarettes and smoke, the poverty and claustrophobia. The atmosphere of the book itself is enough to make me love it. And the fact that it's about a writer only made me adore it more. It made me want to be there, to throw myself into their world, to smoke and drink and ski and go fishing and fall in love and write a novel. The only thing it did not make me want to do was go to a bullfight, but that's only because I did not enjoy that experience myself. If I'd never been to one, I certainly would want to after reading McLain's novel. Aside from the atmosphere, McLain also captures the personalities of her characters so well. I felt like I was Hadley while I read it. Her parts were so alive, so aching and beautiful. Hemingway's few sections were also wonderful, confused and tortured and with a quite distinct voice from his wife's. Even though I knew what was coming, I still held on with Hadley and ached for her, cried for her a few times, loved with her. Because who hasn't loved that man who is so wrong for you, but so swooningly right? There were a few parts where it went so far I just cringed, too horrified to look but unable to stop. (view spoiler) [ Like the part where the other woman gets in bed with them and Hadley just lies there while her husband makes love to his mistress. (hide spoiler) ] Also, the part where Hadley loses Ernest's manuscripts. Being a writer myself, it just knocked the breath out of me. That must be every writer's worst nightmare. I was literally gasping to breathe at how terrible it would be, and McLain does a wonderful job showing that, even through the eyes of the wife instead of the writer himself. Hemingway is captured well, too. I understood his artist mentality very well. McLain takes an age old story (the struggling artist, a nobody, falls in love with another nobody, they get married, she stays in love while he gets famous and becomes somebody, and suddenly, his nobody wife isn't enough for him) and makes it stand out in all its tragedy and romance. This isn't a romance novel, but possibly the most romantic book I've ever read--not only in Hadley and Ernest's love, but in Paris, and the sweeping scope of the novel, the lavishness, the beauty of language and description and location, of each event, each chapter of their love affair. Even their demise is poignant and heartbreaking and messy, but rings with absolute truth. In the epilogue, when it goes into the history of Ernest's family, I got a bit of a shock. Of course I knew of Hemingway's death, but I didn't know about the rest of his family. It was so morbid, and tragic, and sad. I'm glad that Hadley lived a long and full life, despite the wild years of drinking and smoking and cavorting around Paris with her artist husband. And glad to learn that she went on to happiness, even if she couldn't help Ernest. Like so many tragic figures, you find that the ones who need help are the ones who refuse it the most vehemently. Warning: This novel does paint Hemingway in a very sympathetic light, despite his flaws and shortcomings. Recommended for: anyone who's ever been in love, been betrayed, or been to Paris. ...more I've never been a fan of fictionalized works of authors' lives, and the fact that The Paris Wife recounts my favourite author's life during the writing of my favourite book of all time, The Sun Also Rises , antagonized the hell out of me. It didn't bode well. But I promised my sister I'd give it a go; she wanted me to read it because we'd just read A Moveable Feast together, and she sent me the hardcover that she'd read for a recent book club. I couldn't say no. Then, straight away, <---A>Paula McLain</---A> p I've never been a fan of fictionalized works of authors' lives, and the fact that The Paris Wife recounts my favourite author's life during the writing of my favourite book of all time, The Sun Also Rises , antagonized the hell out of me. It didn't bode well. But I promised my sister I'd give it a go; she wanted me to read it because we'd just read A Moveable Feast together, and she sent me the hardcover that she'd read for a recent book club. I couldn't say no. Then, straight away, Paula McLain pissed me off with some of her early writing in the book. They pulled me out of the immersion I prefer to give myself over to when I read; I would just start to lose myself in Hadley's Chicago, or Hemingway's Michigan cabin, and she'd do something inauthentic to break the spell. Things were getting worse. Later on, my own personal feelings, connected to a long dead relationship of my own, a relationship I always thought of in terms of Hadley and Ernest, yanked me out of my immersion -- not once or twice but many times -- and I would be forced to take a break and try to immerse myself all over again. But I blamed myself and tried not to let my attitude spill onto McLain. Around the same time, some clever moments marrying Papa's fictional writing with his \"real\" world were appearing, which had to be McLain's fault, and I asked myself: \"Why do we even need books like this? If a book is just retelling the stories another author already told so well, fictional or autobiographical, surely a fiction that retells these already told tales is superfluous?\" The answer, I must admit, took me by surprise and changed my relationship with The Paris Wife . We need books like this because sometimes the finest stories are the ones we already know told from another direction by someone who loves the original stories and people just as much as we do. It seems obvious to me now, as I write it, but it wasn't at all obvious to me while I was reading. It is beautiful the way McLain loves her subjects. She is fair to them all. She understands them in her own way, a way new and compelling to me, and she overcame all my prejudices, eventually suspending me in my immersion despite herself and her source material and me. I wanted to hate this book. I set out to destroy it and tear it apart. I wanted to come on here and thrash it and Paula McLain. But I can't. I think this book is something special. And it will take its place on the right hand side of my Hemingway shelf, just this side of the biographies, and the Michael Palin Hemingway books. McLain's earned it. Always read with a mind willing to open itself (even when you find it difficult to open your mind from the start). You never know what joys you'll find. ...more ARC won on Goodreads Giveaway Maybe a reader has to be a Hemingway fan to enjoy this book, but I've sometimes found the artist interesting even if I don't give a fig for their art. Sometimes an author has even given me a new appreciation for someone I was previously ambivalent about. This didn't happen here, and I found the prose so flat and uninvolving that I bailed on page 207. It didn't seem worth the time and effort to continue. It's a straightforward novelization of Hadley Hemingway's life wi ARC won on Goodreads Giveaway Maybe a reader has to be a Hemingway fan to enjoy this book, but I've sometimes found the artist interesting even if I don't give a fig for their art. Sometimes an author has even given me a new appreciation for someone I was previously ambivalent about. This didn't happen here, and I found the prose so flat and uninvolving that I bailed on page 207. It didn't seem worth the time and effort to continue. It's a straightforward novelization of Hadley Hemingway's life with Ernest. Too straightforward. Most of the time, the research seems to dominate the storytelling, as if the author loves the subject so much that not a detail must be spared. It just felt a bit tedious to be told that Ernest reported for work in Toronto on September 10, and they heard on September 14 that Smyrna was burning in the Greco-Turkish war. There was too much of obsessing with \"Who said what, and where\" that the actual people in the story had all the dimension of a Wiki article. I didn't know what Hadley looked like (who can keep track of all those wives?), and it's not until quite a ways into the book that we're told of her facial features and hairstyle. It's as if the author assumes the reader is already right there beside her in the Hemingway knowledge and love. A paragraph about Hadley looking at the meats and vegetables at a Paris market is but an example of this saturation of minutae about the Hemingways and their travels and experiences. Riveting no doubt to a rabid fan, but for the casual reader, *yawn*. There's lots of cameos by other Lost Generation members, but they have all the substance of cameos. I dunno, I think I'd much rather read non-fiction about somebody than a dull novel that reads like somebody took a biography and added dialogue to it. And that's what this one felt like. So I'd recommend it for the Hemingway fan who wants to read a book with moments where they can exclaim, \"They've moved to Paris! Yay, we're at the part where Ernest and Gertrude Stein are falling out! Oh, and now they're meeting F. Scott and Zelda!\" Fine book for those who like that, but not for me. I'm not sure this is strict \"literary fiction,\" more \"literary crush fiction.\" And I like my historical fiction to be more meaty than this. (Also, there are mega typos in this ARC. They'd better clean that up. It's Bach and Haydn , not Hayden.) ...more Dear Hadley Richardson, I will admit that having just finished this historical novel about your marriage to Ernest Hemingway, I have now googled you and read a wikipedia article about your life. I am happy to read that you apparently lived happily ever after with your second husband out of the limelight, and died an old woman at the age of 87. But I just have to say, Hadley, when you were asleep naked in bed with your husband Ernest, and Pauline crawled into his side of the bed with him, why in th Dear Hadley Richardson, I will admit that having just finished this historical novel about your marriage to Ernest Hemingway, I have now googled you and read a wikipedia article about your life. I am happy to read that you apparently lived happily ever after with your second husband out of the limelight, and died an old woman at the age of 87. But I just have to say, Hadley, when you were asleep naked in bed with your husband Ernest, and Pauline crawled into his side of the bed with him, why in the hell did you pretend to be asleep?!? What is the hell were you thinking, Hadley! You cooked your own goose with your reaction at that moment. Your marriage was done, right then and there. As I said though, I am happy you escaped and found happiness away from all the madness that was Ernest Hemingway. May your final years have been peaceful, with your years in Paris just crazy memories. I hope the royalties from The Sun Also Rises were beneficial to you. Best Regards, and may you rest in peace. ...more 3 stars only because I didn't know much about them, so I learned some things. To me, this book felt flat. Like a travel diary with lots of name dropping. We went _____, we met _____. I didn't really feel for Hadley. I didn't really feel for young Ernest. She lost him to another woman. She was better off anyway. Favorite: In the epilogue, Hadley, who's moved on with her life, described him as an \"enigma - fine and strong and weak and cruel. An incomparable friend and a Sonofabitch\". The PARIS WIFE is a mesmerizing novel about Paris in the 1920\u2019s featuring the bohemian \u201cLost Generation\u201d. It is the touching and heartbreaking story of the love affair and marriage of literature\u2019s original \u201cbad boy\u201d Ernest Hemingway and his first wife, Hadley Richardson Hemingway. Following a whirlwind courtship and wedding , the deeply in love couple sail to Paris where they become the golden couple in a lively and volatile group that includes Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound and F. Scott and Zelda Fi The PARIS WIFE is a mesmerizing novel about Paris in the 1920\u2019s featuring the bohemian \u201cLost Generation\u201d. It is the touching and heartbreaking story of the love affair and marriage of literature\u2019s original \u201cbad boy\u201d Ernest Hemingway and his first wife, Hadley Richardson Hemingway. Following a whirlwind courtship and wedding , the deeply in love couple sail to Paris where they become the golden couple in a lively and volatile group that includes Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound and F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald. The Hemingway\u2019s are ill prepared for the hard drinking, fast living life of Jazz Age Paris. They are surrounded by beautiful women and competing egos. Written in Hadley\u2019s voice that is so well drawn and lyrical it manages to captures the spectacle of the man becoming the legend. She draws the twenty year old Hemingway as a handsome, magnetic, passionate, sensitive man full of dreams. This portrayal of their marriage is so tender, so poignant that is an utterly absorbing novel. ...more This one just wasn't really my cup of tea. The beginning was alright, but after Hadley and Ernest get married I lost interest. I really had an issue with Hadley's character and I wasn't sympathetic towards her at all. She was such a whiny pushover. Now that I think about it I don't know if she was just a product of the times- old fashioned and hell bent on staying married even though your husband is a complete prick- or just really that pathetic? Ernest was sort of a self absorbed, vain, asshole This one just wasn't really my cup of tea. The beginning was alright, but after Hadley and Ernest get married I lost interest. I really had an issue with Hadley's character and I wasn't sympathetic towards her at all. She was such a whiny pushover. Now that I think about it I don't know if she was just a product of the times- old fashioned and hell bent on staying married even though your husband is a complete prick- or just really that pathetic? Ernest was sort of a self absorbed, vain, asshole who was a terrible husband too, so I didn't get a warm fuzzy feeling about either of the protagonists for that matter. I kept waiting for Hadley to find her voice and start sticking up for herself or at least loose her temper and yell! Particularly when she finds out her best friend is sleeping with her husband and this so called \"friend\" acts as if nothing is wrong. I knew that Hadley and Ernest eventually get a divorce and of his suicide so the ending was of no shock to me. Certainly not a very happy ending. I don't think you have to be a Hemingway fan to read this one, however I do feel I would have gotten more from the story had I read The Sun Also Rises (mentioned several times in the book) or A Moveable Feast (supposedly roughly based on Hemingway's first marriage.) All in all I felt as though The Paris Wife was a boring (but very well written) novel. ...more \"It was sometimes painful for me to think that to those who followed his life with interest, I was just the early wife, the Paris wife. But that was probably vanity, wanting to stand out in a long line of women. In truth, it didn't matter what others saw. We knew what we had and what it meant, and though so much had happened since for both of us, there was nothing like those years in Paris, after the war. Life was painfully pure and simple and good, and I believe Ernest was his best self then. I \"It was sometimes painful for me to think that to those who followed his life with interest, I was just the early wife, the Paris wife. But that was probably vanity, wanting to stand out in a long line of women. In truth, it didn't matter what others saw. We knew what we had and what it meant, and though so much had happened since for both of us, there was nothing like those years in Paris, after the war. Life was painfully pure and simple and good, and I believe Ernest was his best self then. I got the very best of him. We got the best of each other.\" In The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas , Gertrude Stein (writing as her partner Alice) describes how when artists would visit them, Gertrude would talk with the men while Alice sat with the wives. That was Alice's job: Gertrude would have intellectual discussions with the various men of genius while Alice sat in another room and talked about hats or whatever with Mrs. Picasso, Mrs. Matisse, and, of course, Mrs. Hemingway. This illustrates what I found so frustrating about The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas and, by extension, The Paris Wife : while it's certainly interesting to read about the people who shaped and affected artists' lives, the fact is that these people who were forgotten or ignored by history can never escape the shadow of their famous loved ones. Sometimes these ignored bystanders are untapped wells of unacknowledged genius and influence. And sometimes they're Hadley Hemingway. Look, I'm sure Hadley was a lovely person. If nothing else, she deserves a medal for putting up with Ernest Hemingway's shit for so many years, and for going on to live a long and happy life after she left him. But the unfortunate truth, a truth that Paula McLain's book cannot escape, is that Hadley Hemingway's life did not need its own novel. The book started out strong, when we're seeing Hadley and Ernest meeting in Chicago when they're in their twenties. It's the best part of the book, because their chemistry is obvious and you can totally understand why these two got married and moved halfway across the world together. But once the Hemingways move to Paris and Ernest's career starts taking off, that chemistry and that connection disappears, and we're left with a book about a woman who stood on the sidewalk and waved as a parade of famous people walked through her life. The biggest problem was Hadley herself. I didn't understand her any better at the end of the book than I did at the beginning, and throughout the story I could never predict how she was going to react to a given situation, because I never got a sense of who she was as a person. Her motivations and reactions were constantly baffling to me - sometimes Ernest would do something boneheaded and Hadley would get angry at him; other times she would just shrug and think, \"oh well, that's just how he is.\" And she's so, so irritatingly passive. Hadley is a talented piano player but has never pursued it professionally, but about halfway through the novel she decides (after much prompting from her friends, because Hadley never really makes any decisions independently) to put on a concert. As I read descriptions of Hadley practicing for the performance, I thought, Yes! Your life has a purpose! You have identified a goal and are working towards it! You are finally behaving like a protagonist! Go, Hadley, go! And then Ernest cheats on her and she cancels the concert. Cue sad trombone. After Ernest comes clean about the affair, Hadley once again decides to start acting like a dynamic character and gives Ernest an ultimatum: Ernest will not contact the other woman for one hundred days, and if, at the end of that period, he still wants to go through with the divorce, Hadley will agree to it. Guess who caves and agrees to the divorce before the hundred days are up? Possibly the biggest misstep in the novel is McLain's decision to insert random chapters, mostly flashbacks, from Ernest's perspective, and it only serves to prove that Hadley cannot sustain an entire novel on her own. And I have to say - for a book that takes place in the roaring twenties in an artists' community in Paris, it's fucking boring. Even the Fitzgeralds were dull, which I didn't think was possible. An ordinary story about an ordinary woman who happened to know some famous people once. It's sort of like listening to your friend tell a boring story about how she was once in an elevator with a celebrity. Not everyone needs a biography. ...more After watching Midnight in Paris, I found myself on a nostalgia kick. I rummaged through my bookshelves and pulled out everything I owned by T.S. Eliot, Fitzgerald and Hemingway. When I saw \u201cThe Paris Wife\u201d by Paula McLain on the New York Times Bestseller\u2019s List, I knew I had to read it while Hemingway\u2019s material was still fresh in my mind. Told through Hadley Hemingway\u2019s perspective (Ernest\u2019s first wife), the story starts with the couple\u2019s meeting and continues to their eventual divorce six year After watching Midnight in Paris, I found myself on a nostalgia kick. I rummaged through my bookshelves and pulled out everything I owned by T.S. Eliot, Fitzgerald and Hemingway. When I saw \u201cThe Paris Wife\u201d by Paula McLain on the New York Times Bestseller\u2019s List, I knew I had to read it while Hemingway\u2019s material was still fresh in my mind. Told through Hadley Hemingway\u2019s perspective (Ernest\u2019s first wife), the story starts with the couple\u2019s meeting and continues to their eventual divorce six years later. The book chronicles the Hemingways\u2019 bohemian lifestyle in Paris as Hadley is exposed to fast life of the Jazz Age. With supporting characters of great American expatriates like Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald, and other literary greats, it\u2019s hard for a classic book lover not to feel attached and excited as the story progresses. What I loved most about the story was that it felt less of a Hemingway biography and more of authentic story telling by Hadley. I felt a deep sadness as Hadley conveyed her inner thoughts to the reader as she realized certain truths about Hemingway that she could never change: his angry temperament, his infidelity and how damaged the first World War had left him. I\u2019ve always been in love with Hemingway, but this book surprised me and made deeply attached to Hadley. The lovely way she spoke to the reader about the challenges as Hemingway\u2019s wife utterly captivated me. I sympathized with her, cried with her, and rooted for her all along. McLain says she got the idea to write in Hadley\u2019s voice when she read Hemingway\u2019s memoir, A Moveable Feast. In the final pages, he writes of Hadley, \u201cI wished I had died before I ever loved anyone but her.\u201d It prompted her to research Hadley\u2019s life and the Hemingways\u2019 first, brief marriage. McLain does a remarkable job of interpreting the couple\u2019s personal life and brings Hadley alive by giving her a genuine voice. \u201cThe Paris Wife\u201d is a must read for nostalgia lovers, people who appreciate quality character development, and those who\u2019ve read \u201cThe Old Man and the Sea\u201d more times than they can remember. ...more I've written a review of Hemingway's \"Farewell to Arms\" somewhere in this Goodreads stack of mine. And if you're someone who's ever read it, then you know that I'm not the No. 1 fan of Hemingway's prose. Too short. Too terse. Too chauvinistic. Too...you get the idea. BUT (and it's a big but here, like Sir-Mix-A-Lot big), I am FASCINATED by Hemingway the author. I have to say, \"The Paris Wife\" only made me that much MORE fascinated. Did I mention I'm also in love with Paris? And that, if I were on I've written a review of Hemingway's \"Farewell to Arms\" somewhere in this Goodreads stack of mine. And if you're someone who's ever read it, then you know that I'm not the No. 1 fan of Hemingway's prose. Too short. Too terse. Too chauvinistic. Too...you get the idea. BUT (and it's a big but here, like Sir-Mix-A-Lot big), I am FASCINATED by Hemingway the author. I have to say, \"The Paris Wife\" only made me that much MORE fascinated. Did I mention I'm also in love with Paris? And that, if I were one to believe in past lives (which I'm not), then I think I spent one of mine as a member of the Lost Generation, sneaking into the same cafes as Hemingway and <---C>F. Scott Fitzgerald</---C> and Gertrude Stein just so I could eavesdrop on their conversations? Bits of self-revelation that explain why I really, really loved this book. In it, Paula McLain does an excellent job of taking her readers back to 1920s Paris, to the days of Hemingway's early career, through the eyes of his first (and some might say favorite) wife (he had 4!), Hadley Richardson. The novel spans the courtship days of their relationship (who doesn't find the notion of corresponding by letter with a beau the ideal old-fashioned romance?) through the events that cause them to separate. While some authors have a hard time capturing the essence of their characters in these kinds of fact-as-fiction accounts, McLain really hits the mark with her representation of Richardson. And it's a testament to her writing and narrative skills that readers do not hate Hemingway by the end of it. That, instead, we join Hadley in feeling a bit sorry for him as he seems to be, despite all his fame and later future, a \"lost\" soul. Fair warning \u2014 this is one of those books you might find yourself spending an hour on the Internet after reading, trolling sites for more nuggets about Papa Hemingway and the broken branches of his family tree. I have a theory that artists who are truly great can really only love one thing in their life and love it well and that's their art. Hemingway (along with other legends, like Picasso) is one such artist and \"The Paris Wife\" does little to disprove the idea. ****PS \u2014 I DO really want to read some more Hemingway now, in particular \"A Moveable Feast\". Having insight into an author's life, and how it influences his work, is a powerful draw in that sense. ...more Right in the feels... The end of this book tore my heart to pieces. I hated Hemingway one minute and loved him the next. I love Hadley, she is such a magnificent woman who was an absolute gem in her time and reminds me of so many women who gave up the best for their husbands during their worst times and then only for their man to leave. It's no secret Hem was a lover of many, but I think truly he loved Hadley the most. Their love was pure and real. This book was beautifully written if not a bit Right in the feels... The end of this book tore my heart to pieces. I hated Hemingway one minute and loved him the next. I love Hadley, she is such a magnificent woman who was an absolute gem in her time and reminds me of so many women who gave up the best for their husbands during their worst times and then only for their man to leave. It's no secret Hem was a lover of many, but I think truly he loved Hadley the most. Their love was pure and real. This book was beautifully written if not a bit slow at the beginning. I'm so happy I read their story. It reminded me of Johnny and June and Marc Anthony and Cleopatra... Great lovers. Ah what a book! Right in the feels! ...more I didn't get this book read before my book club discussion, and I was surprised to find that everyone loved the book. I figured I'd keep reading because it must get better, and I spent time in Cuba and toured Hemingway's home and favorite bars and now somehow feel closer to him. I have been sadly disappointed in the book, however, and committed to finishing the book to figure out what I don't like about it. While I enjoy the story of Ernest Hemingway and the socio-historic context, I don't feel c I didn't get this book read before my book club discussion, and I was surprised to find that everyone loved the book. I figured I'd keep reading because it must get better, and I spent time in Cuba and toured Hemingway's home and favorite bars and now somehow feel closer to him. I have been sadly disappointed in the book, however, and committed to finishing the book to figure out what I don't like about it. While I enjoy the story of Ernest Hemingway and the socio-historic context, I don't feel connected to him or Hadley. As I read I try to figure out why. The narration, while from Hadley's perspective, is oddly objective-- there are no emotions, there is no warmth in the writing and therefore in the relationship there is no feeling involved. The tone is almost nonexistent. She witnesses a man almost gored by a bull, she describes the attentions of her husband's admirers, tells the reader of her near breakdown as her husband leaves town, or mentions her impending piano concert without any expression of anticipation or apprehension. She describes her son with total objectivity, and easily leaves him with a nanny for days and days as she goes on vacation, mentioning only as she returns home that she \"missed him tremendously.\" She learns her husband is having an affair with her best friend; she confronts him, and then there is no mention of any expression of emotion after he blames her and then leaves. Ultimately, I find that I cannot relate to either character-- we share no character traits, I find no common emotions in our experiences, and I cannot relate to her reactions and actions within the story. I feel no empathy. What I was looking for was a book that evokes kindness, sympathy for the protagonist, and reveals some sort of connection between characters within a love story. I leave this book with no attraction toward Hemingway's books, no further affection, and no sorrow for the wronged ex-wife. ...more From the opening lines of Paula McLain's THE PARIS WIFE, it is obvious that this author really knows how to turn a phrase. The prose is nimble and witty even when it is also full of pathos. The tone of the narrative is a conversational first-person one with a smattering of American epithets that makes it easy to hear this woman's voice. The narrative voice is very nineteen-twenties, using the vernacular to create a palpable \"lost generation\" atmosphere. This adds to the authentic, almost autobio From the opening lines of Paula McLain's THE PARIS WIFE, it is obvious that this author really knows how to turn a phrase. The prose is nimble and witty even when it is also full of pathos. The tone of the narrative is a conversational first-person one with a smattering of American epithets that makes it easy to hear this woman's voice. The narrative voice is very nineteen-twenties, using the vernacular to create a palpable \"lost generation\" atmosphere. This adds to the authentic, almost autobiographical feel of the book. The quality of the writing is at its very best at the beginning and end of the book, with the middle being a little more plain-spoken. But when it's good, it's very, very good. It certainly had me from the very first line: \"Though I often looked for one, I finally had to admit that there could be no cure for Paris.\" It feels slightly surreal to be reading a book about a woman called Hadley and a man called Ernest - never quite being able to forget that \"Ernest\" is Ernest Hemingway, one of my favorite authors. It takes some getting used to, kid. Hadley's first-person voice is so authoritative and convincing that it is often difficult to remember that this is historical fiction, not autobiography. Which also begs the question, how much is fact and how much is fiction? I've read a lot of historical fiction but seldom asked this question so constantly throughout a book. This, from Ernest, certainly rings true: \"'I want to write one true sentence,' he said. 'If I can write one sentence, simple and true every day, I'll be satisfied.'\" Hadley is a very realistic character, full of anxieties and dark moods as well as the eagerness and excitement of the newlywed. She is strong and fragile, tough and vulnerable all at once - in short, as full of contradictions as is any human being. However, while she is a very sympathetic character, something bothered me about her and it took me some time to figure out what it was: She is very \"domesticated,\" which I suppose was typical of the times, but she also lacks, to a large degree, her own identity apart from Ernest. Thus, I found Ernest to be the more interesting character - volatile, but not excessively so for a great writer; enigmatic but also often practical and straightforward; tenacious and determined; sometimes abrasive and always passionate. Hadley certainly does see and understand the real Ernest: \"Ernest Hemingway ... seemed to do happiness all the way up and through. There wasn't any fear in him that I could see, just intensity and aliveness. His eyes sparked all over everything ...\" As their relationship develops, she sees deeper and deeper into him: \"... Some of us had looked into the faces of the dead and tried not to remember anything in particular. Ernest was one of these. He often said he'd died in the war, just for a moment; that his soul had left his body like a silk handkerchief, slipping out and levitating over his chest. It had returned without being called back, and I often wondered if writing for him was a way of knowing his soul was there after all, back in its place. Of saying to himself, if not to anyone else, that he had seen what he'd seen and felt those terrible things and lived anyway. That he had died but wasn't dead any more.\" Hadley is the one who sees Ernest at his best and worst and everything in between: \"He loved and needed praise. He loved and needed to be loved, and even adored ... Ernest did run the show and ran me over more than occasionally, and that wasn't by chance ... He was such an enigma, really - fine and strong and weak and cruel. An incomparable friend and a son of a bitch. In the end, there wasn't one thing about him that was truer than the rest. It was all true.\" In contrast, Hadley could often seem tentative and plaintive and overly solicitous of her husband's approval and affection. She is quite aware that she lacks purpose, and embarks on various \"projects\" to try to find it - from playing the piano to having a baby: \"He was inside the creative sphere and I was outside, and I didn't know if anything would ever change that.\" A major theme of the book is the legacy of the suffragette movement in the form of the \"modern woman.\" Surrounded by endless examples of these comparatively liberated women in Paris and in Ernest's orbit in general, Hadley spends much of the book trying to find this fierce and fearless quality in herself, almost ashamed to admit that more traditional values and lifestyles appeal to her more. Can an ordinary and unambitious wife hope to hold onto one of the greatest, most innovative and progressive writers of the \"lost generation\"? Hadley knows well how seemingly impossible this task is: \"Marriage could be such deadly terrain. In Paris, you couldn't really turn around without seeing the result of lovers' bad decisions. An artist given to sexual excess was almost a cliche, but no one seemed to mind. As long as you were making something good or interesting or sensational, you could have as many lovers as you wanted and ruin them all. What was really unacceptable were bourgeois values, wanting something small and staid and predictable, like one true love, or a child.\" The denouement of this novel could hardly be more perfect. It is messy and complex and moving, but not melodramatic or overly sentimental or trite. It is utterly authentic, utterly real, utterly true. It is just the way life is, in all its imperfect grace and all its terrible beauty. It is the very thing to reflect and amplify the elegant verisimilitude of THE PARIS WIFE as a whole. \u2605 This review is also available on my blog at feelthepowerofstory.wordpress.com \u2605 ...more A page turning novel! I dare a reader 'not' to go to the internet and look up more information on Hemingway. (other characters in the book). How could you not? This history is fascinating! (and Hemingway was not 'the most' likeable human being on the planet)>>>> talented, yes.... \"Giving & Caring\" for others??? hm??? ........not so much! Awwwwwww, and don't we all know at least one talented person in our lives with this type of 'character-flaw'?/! lol Fascinating historical novel about Ernest Hemingway and his first wife (of four) Hadley Richardson. I didn't know much about Hemingway, their social circle of artists/writers (including F. Scott Fitzgerald and Gertrude Stein among others) in Paris, and their skewed \"modern\" views on marriage and life, so this intrigued me. This is partly a love story, but cannot be read for that, or one would walk away disappointed. As with most(?) brilliant creators, Hemingway was egotistical and loved his work Fascinating historical novel about Ernest Hemingway and his first wife (of four) Hadley Richardson. I didn't know much about Hemingway, their social circle of artists/writers (including F. Scott Fitzgerald and Gertrude Stein among others) in Paris, and their skewed \"modern\" views on marriage and life, so this intrigued me. This is partly a love story, but cannot be read for that, or one would walk away disappointed. As with most(?) brilliant creators, Hemingway was egotistical and loved his work above all else. Hadley Richardson was too weak for my liking, but her story comes around in the end (the epilogue brought me needed closure). I thought the book was well researched and left me wanting to know more about their lives and to read a few of his books that reflected this time period (especially \"A Sun Also Rises\" and \"A Moveable Feast\"). Besides being a fascinating story, the book touched on so many issues that would make for a prime discussion. When a book effects me so much, good or bad, that I can't stop talking about it, I know it was a success. ...more A storybook romance--a match made in heaven--surely it would last a lifetime, but it didn't. This is the story of Ernest Hemingway's first marriage that includes the years of his early writing career. It is told in the first person voice of Hadley, his first wife (first of four). The basic facts, movements and accomplishments of their relationship are well documented by previous biographies and memoirs. This book is written as historical fiction, and is thus able to make the story come alive in A storybook romance--a match made in heaven--surely it would last a lifetime, but it didn't. This is the story of Ernest Hemingway's first marriage that includes the years of his early writing career. It is told in the first person voice of Hadley, his first wife (first of four). The basic facts, movements and accomplishments of their relationship are well documented by previous biographies and memoirs. This book is written as historical fiction, and is thus able to make the story come alive in personal ways by reconstructing the probable thoughts, feelings and conversations in ways that can't be done in nonfiction writing. The author has made the story an interesting and compelling romantic tale of his wife as inspirational muse, supporter and enabler, both emotionally and financially. Her income from a trust fund and inheritances enabled them to go to Paris in the first place. While in Europe they rubbed shoulders with the fabled \"Lost Generation\" that included Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound and F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald. The experiences of life in Paris and their travels in Europe are so much a part of Hemingway's subsequent writing that it's unlikely that the literary world would have ever discovered Hemingway had they remained in Chicago. Hemingway's personality as portrayed in this book confirms some of my impressions of him from other sources. He was probably bipolar, and in his manic state he was pretty full of himself. He probably considered himself to be God's gift to women, and there were plenty of women who agreed. It was this sort of arrogance that doomed his first marriage, and probably explains why his life ended up including a total of four wives. In his later years, and in what were probably depressive states of mind, he seems to have reflected on how he was responsible for ending a special and unique relationship when he split with Hadley. In discussing this book it ultimately leads to the question of why their relationship didn't survive. The book suggests that Hemingway found his second wife to be more modern, interesting, and more astute regarding literary matters than Hadley. She also flattered his ego in an uncritical manner, whereas Hadley provided advice of a more objective nature. I also couldn't help but notice that the second woman Ernest married was more wealthy than Hadley. This enabled him to comfortably set up shop in the Florida Keys. But the wealth of his second wife also allowed him to be generous to Hadley in the divorce settlement. He dedicated the income from the royalties of his novel, The Sun Also Rises , to Hadley as well as dedicating the book to her and their son. As described in this book, Hemingway wrote about scenes and experiences he actually experienced. The added fictional veneer was just enough to provide a plot line. This book has given me an incentive to read The Sun Also Rises because he wrote that book while still married to Hadley and incorporated many of the activities they witnessed together. Many of the personalities of their acquaintances from that era can be recognized in the novel. However, Hadley is not one of the characters written into the plot--probably because she was too rational and practical (i.e. uninteresting). This book, however, brought her to life in an interesting way. She was the steady rock that allowed Ernest to start his career. Once he tasted success, he jilted her. But she recovered, and entered into a second happy marriage that lasted for the rest of her long life. Her success in her second marriage is its own form of revenge. The following is a short review from PageADay's Book Lover's Calendar for April 27-28, 2013: For fans of Nancy Horan\u2019s Loving Frank, here is another novel that imagines the life of a woman who had a greater influence than history might have fully acknowledged. In this case it\u2019s Hadley Richardson, who fell madly in love with Ernest Hemingway and married him in short order. Despite their great love, other influences are at work that throw their marriage into crisis. An entertaining novel that offers bonus glimpses at the many famous members of the \u201cLost Generation.\u201d THE PARIS WIFE , by Paula McLain (Random House, 2011) ...more It took me a long time to get into this book and it really wasn't until the 2nd half that I was hooked...or at least understood what a really amazing job the author did in this fictionalized \"memoir\" of Hemingway's first wife's years with him. I did find a couple of things to be lacking. First, in the book, Hadley Richardson seems to take their lifestyle for granted. While they live in near poverty, they are able to afford a great deal of travel throughout Europe, employing domestic help, and oft It took me a long time to get into this book and it really wasn't until the 2nd half that I was hooked...or at least understood what a really amazing job the author did in this fictionalized \"memoir\" of Hemingway's first wife's years with him. I did find a couple of things to be lacking. First, in the book, Hadley Richardson seems to take their lifestyle for granted. While they live in near poverty, they are able to afford a great deal of travel throughout Europe, employing domestic help, and often maintaining a residence (albeit a modest one) in Paris while staying in hotels and inns elsewhere. It is difficult for the modern reader to reconcile how that lifestyle was possible and not at least a bit surprising to Hadley, who though she grew up comfortably, first got her passport to go to Paris with Hemingway. Second, while Hadley is a textured and interesting character, she isn't overly introspective. This wouldn't be a bad trait and she does experience some self-reflection, but it is difficult to appreciate her and Hem's attraction to her without some 3rd person account. Perhaps the most interesting bit about her in the book was the young bull fighter who Hem said was in love with her. His reaction made me believe that there might be something more beautiful, more interesting, or more charismatic than the fictional Hadley had described. ...more This novel is written in the first person narrative of Hadley Richardson, the first wife of Ernest Hemingway. I don't know why or even how but Hadley sat in my lounge room with me and told me her story. I actually heard her voice while I read this novel: sorry, I mean, she told me their story. At 28, Hadley is a shy girl feeling defeated by life when she meets a young Ernest Hemingway. Just beginning his life as a writer, 21yr old Ernest is fresh back from the war, self possessed and vibrant but This novel is written in the first person narrative of Hadley Richardson, the first wife of Ernest Hemingway. I don't know why or even how but Hadley sat in my lounge room with me and told me her story. I actually heard her voice while I read this novel: sorry, I mean, she told me their story. At 28, Hadley is a shy girl feeling defeated by life when she meets a young Ernest Hemingway. Just beginning his life as a writer, 21yr old Ernest is fresh back from the war, self possessed and vibrant but, as he will later reveal to Hadley, now carrying a few battle scars around in his head. Although an unlikely couple, a romance begins, first in letters and then a few weeks spent together here and there throughout the year. After marrying, they move to Paris to where all the real writers are; James Joyce, Ezra Pound, Gertrude Stein, Scott Fitzgerald and here, Hemingway's life as a writer begins. Honestly, Hemingway was pretty selfish, he swans off each day to write leaving Hadley alone in a dingy apartment with little money but she supports him through it all. If I'd have heard him say how he was going to write a novel that was \" good and pure and honest \" (one of his favorite phrases) once more, I'd have had to whack him around the head and said \" well, write the damn thing instead of talking about it \". But Hadley's a rock; she's there for him and each evening they go off to drink, eat, talk and afterwards, Hem always to keep drinking with his literary friends. Interestingly, it is actually Hadley's money from a small inheritance which basically supports them in these early years. Their time in Paris is punctuated with impulsive trips to Spain and the Swiss Alps; times that, I think, are the best times in their marriage. As Hem has wanted, he does write sentences that are \u201c simple and true \u201d and his career begins to take off. They are in with a fast crowd and alcohol, absinthe, cocaine and opium are to be had everywhere. The blurb alludes to Hadley being jealous of Hem but I didn't get that feeling at all. I felt her to be the stalwart in the marriage and felt glad that she does get her way with the birth of their son, Bumby; something Hem didn't want so early in his literary life. But love doesn't protect you from other people's desires and six years later, they meet a woman who will alter their lives. Hemingway's brilliant literary career and four failed marriages are well documented in history. It is interesting to note, however, that Hadley had a wonderful 40yr plus marriage after Hemingway. She lived to a ripe old age of 87 whereas Hem married four times and seemed to battle himself and life until finally committing suicide at 62 in 1961. McLain acknowledges many sources in the writing of this book. Hemingway details his marriage to Hadley in A Moveable Feast which I have read. But it is The Paris Wife which has made me want to eager to read more about Hadley Richardson. I now want to read Hadley,: The First Mrs. Hemingway by Alice Sokoloff and Paris Without End: The True Story of Hemingway's First Wife by Gioia Diliberto ; two books McLain mentions. McLain is excellent in that she doesn't bury the reader with the pronoun 'I' as often happens in first person narrative stories. Instead, I didn't read the book; I was able to hear Hadley tell me the story \u2013 which was simply marvellous. Hadley is \u201c brave and true and honest \u201d; and that's what I really liked about The Paris Wife. 4\u2605 ...more I'm willing to admit my expectations were too high. But this was truly awful. As in practically unreadable. And look at the sales figures! Well, good for Paula McLain. Now for my review. This is a classic case of historical fiction that stays too close to its source material, and then suffers under comparison with it. [I want to thank a reader with comments, below, who helped me clarify my judgment so that I could add that key sentence to this review.] Having read everything by and about Hemingway I'm willing to admit my expectations were too high. But this was truly awful. As in practically unreadable. And look at the sales figures! Well, good for Paula McLain. Now for my review. This is a classic case of historical fiction that stays too close to its source material, and then suffers under comparison with it. [I want to thank a reader with comments, below, who helped me clarify my judgment so that I could add that key sentence to this review.] Having read everything by and about Hemingway, I turned to this fictionalized memoir by his first wife, Hadley, ready for a repeat of Ellis Avery's readable novel about the same period, The Last Nude , which I had enjoyed much more than expected. Naturally, I was expecting something that could hold its own against A Moveable Feast which I highly recommend. Ernest and Hadley met in Chicago after WWI, married and moved to Paris, where they lived the famously poor and glamorous life Hemingway recalls in great detail in his most entertaining book, A Moveable Feast . Two or three major events occurred during that time which were to foreshadow their divorce, and this book is the author's attempt to tell that story from Hadley's perspective. It certainly didn't require much research, since both lives have long been thoroughly mined. But it did require enough talent, along with a literary fiction approach, so that this book would stand up to A Moveable Feast . It doesn't, and the general fiction approach McLain took dumbs it down further. There isn't a complex metaphor or a deft characterization in this book about a time, a place and a world where those things were what the characters lived, breathed, ate and drank, apart from absinthe. The lack of psychological insight, the lack of reflective depth, combined with the wooden writing, deepened my disappointment. Worse, I felt ripped off. By the end I felt like the author stole a best seller from me as a reader. If millions of readers think this was it, well...I guess that's that. A book that any Hemingway scholar might feel he or she could have written with eyes closed and a few writing classes under the belt...somehow, and sadly, ruined by a kind of brain-dead, clueless, rudderless mindset that informs Hadley's voice, yet seems at odds with anyone's desire to read about her gutsy choice to give it all up for adventures with Ernesto. ...more This is a novel about Ernest Hemingway and his first wife Hadley Richardson, told from Hadley's point of view and starting in 1920. The book is called The Paris Wife because they spent most of their time together living in Paris. Unfortunately, their time together was not all that long, as Ernest being the bastard that he was, had an affair about 4 years into their marriage and ended up divorcing Hadley to marry wife number two. Hadley had the last laugh though, as Ernest was to have four marriag This is a novel about Ernest Hemingway and his first wife Hadley Richardson, told from Hadley's point of view and starting in 1920. The book is called The Paris Wife because they spent most of their time together living in Paris. Unfortunately, their time together was not all that long, as Ernest being the bastard that he was, had an affair about 4 years into their marriage and ended up divorcing Hadley to marry wife number two. Hadley had the last laugh though, as Ernest was to have four marriages in total, none of them successful, and famously ended up shooting himself. Hadley, on the other hand, married again and stayed married to her second husband for 40 years, until he died, and lived to the ripe old age of 89 herself. Although this is a work of fiction, the historical details are as accurate as possible, and if, like me, you like reading about the \"Lost Generation\" literary scene in Paris in the 1920s and 1930s, you should really enjoy this book. All of the regular suspects are in attendance; Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald and Gerald and Sara Murphy, among others. Overall, a very entertaining read. ...more Often, timing is everything. At least it was for me when it came to Paula McLain\u2019s The Paris Wife . I probably would have passed it by if I had not, several months after its debut, impulsively picket up a copy of The Old Man and the Sea on Barnes and Noble\u2019s discount table. When I first heard the review of The Paris Wife on NPR on March 1 2011, Hemingway and his works were distant encounters during my teen years in the 1950s. Although novels as The Sun Also Rises and For Whom the Bell Tolls were, Often, timing is everything. At least it was for me when it came to Paula McLain\u2019s The Paris Wife . I probably would have passed it by if I had not, several months after its debut, impulsively picket up a copy of The Old Man and the Sea on Barnes and Noble\u2019s discount table. When I first heard the review of The Paris Wife on NPR on March 1 2011, Hemingway and his works were distant encounters during my teen years in the 1950s. Although novels as The Sun Also Rises and For Whom the Bell Tolls were, for me, reading highlights of those years, I had not read anything of Hemingway\u2019s since. And not only had I not read any of Hemingway since my high school years, but I was also aware that many current readers and critics were not convinced of Hemingway\u2019s talents and skills: among many he was quite out of favor. Given that current criticism, I hadn\u2019t added Hemingway to my reading list. So, although the NPR review was positive in regard to McLain\u2019s novel and her recreation of the lives of Hadley and Hemingway during the 1920s, the idea of spending time with Hemingway\u2019s first wife was, for me, not overly attractive. I had other interests. There were other books on my to-read list. So in August, on merely a whim, I read The Old Man and the Sea . That novel led me to re-read The Sun Also Rises and For Whom the Bell Tolls and to read for the first time Farewell to Arms and A Moveable Feast . All that reading reminded me, contrary to some of Hemingway\u2019s current negative critics, of his remarkable gifts as a writer. Against that background, Hemingway\u2019s Paris years from the perspective of Hadley Richardson became suddenly of greater interest. In September, when I saw a copy of the book in Barnes and Noble\u2019s recent arrival shelf, I was reminded of NPR\u2019s review and now added it to my list of books to read. My August readings had included The Sun Also Rises and A Moveable Feast . Both focus on the 1920s when Hadley and Hemingway were in Paris as a newly married couple and moving among the members of the \u201cLost Generation\u201d\u2014people like Gertrude Stein, the Fitzgeralds, Ezra Pound, Gerald and Sara Murphy, John Dos Pasos, Picasso. With Hemingway\u2019s voice newly echoing in my mind, reading The Paris Wife was particularly enjoyable. Of course, The Paris Wife is a novel and not an authentic biography. Although McLain follows Hadley\u2019s real life in its real dimensions and course and, although the people who move through her pages are real and not fictional, still there is much imagined in regard to conversations, emotions, interrelationships and feelings. McLain herself described the work as a novel \u201cin conversation\u201d with Hemingway in \u201cA Moveable Feast\u201d: I think the way it occurred to me at the time, and perhaps I was fooling myself, was that I was in conversation with that book [\u201cA Moveable Feast\u201d] and that I was inserting my version of Hadley into that time and talking about their places and their experiences from her point of view. [I was] giving her an opportunity to step into the light for a moment, out of the fringes of literary history. In The Moveable Feast Hadley is quite tangential, lurking in the shadows without voice. McLain moves her out of the shadows and gives her voice. Hadley, now in center stage, draws us into Hemingway\u2019s Paris years, bringing those years into new life and a new perspective. McLain\u2019s novel is not great literature but it is a skillful [Brenda Wineapple in her New York Times review calls it \u201cstylish\u201d] work that gives us a multi-faceted view of a complex man who did write seminal fiction and of the long-suffering and decent woman who became a permanent part of his heart. I am not certain you could read The Paris Wife without some previous encounter with Hemingway and without some knowledge of the ambiance of Paris among the \u00e9migr\u00e9 community in the wake of World War One. For me the book\u2019s value was its \u201cstylish\u201d (to use Wineapple\u2019s characterization again) re-entry into the world out of which came The Sun Also Rises and A Moveable Feast . It is also a book whose wider, more appreciative audience would probably be female. The novel's pace is slow and reflective. The truth be told, the life of Hadley Richardson would not be of interest were it not for her connection to Ernest Hemingway for better or for worse. http://www.randomhouse.com/rhpg/featu... ...more Lookie there. There's something I don't do often; I gave this book a five star rating. And it deserved it. This is the story of the Paris wife. Hadley Hemingway. But more than that, it's the story of Ernest before he became larger than life, when he was the young newlywed, planning on a great life with a beautiful and charming bride. Planning on writing THE novel, planning on becoming THE writer, which he did. But as soon as his talent became well respected, his personna and his personal life be Lookie there. There's something I don't do often; I gave this book a five star rating. And it deserved it. This is the story of the Paris wife. Hadley Hemingway. But more than that, it's the story of Ernest before he became larger than life, when he was the young newlywed, planning on a great life with a beautiful and charming bride. Planning on writing THE novel, planning on becoming THE writer, which he did. But as soon as his talent became well respected, his personna and his personal life became too grand. He became like the masterful torero whom he loved so much, flirting with death, trying to control death, which he did in the end, with the shot from a gun. Dear beautiful Hadley Hemingway, first wife, true love, mother of his first son. Strong enough to survive being married to a man of frantic intensity. Weak enough to finally hand him over to another woman. I got into this book. I almost got into the mind of the genius, Ernest Hemingway. I was almost to see, tho not fully understand, what it would be like to be married to someone whose total devotion was to his talent. I even almost (almost..) grew to understand why Hemingway was such a fan of bullfighting. I will now go and get The Sun Also Rises. Perhaps I will understand better now that I know the real people behind the characters. ...more Overall, this novel was a poignant and breezy read. I guess with biographical historical novels, one would usually feel that the author, in trying to fill in the blanks of a factual account with creative bits, would tend to assume a sympathetic stance in regards to the protagonist (otherwise why write the story at all). Whether that sympathy is so strong that it lends a revisionist tone or whether it is balanced by reserve is a matter of the author's judgment call. The main storyline is riveting Overall, this novel was a poignant and breezy read. I guess with biographical historical novels, one would usually feel that the author, in trying to fill in the blanks of a factual account with creative bits, would tend to assume a sympathetic stance in regards to the protagonist (otherwise why write the story at all). Whether that sympathy is so strong that it lends a revisionist tone or whether it is balanced by reserve is a matter of the author's judgment call. The main storyline is riveting as it unfolds the menage a trois situation in Hemingway's first marriage with Hadley Richardson, with Pauline Pfiffer being the mistress. The writing style is silky smooth. The author's sympathy for Hadley Richardson is quite obvious throughout and her writing easily evokes readers' compassion for her heroine, but she doesn't let it saturate her story. She clearly also tries to be understanding towards Hemingway. Perhaps, by being reserved on the seducer role of Pfiffer's, she has managed to let Richardson gain even more commiseration. Apart from the main story, the background stories about the fast lives that celebrity writers led in Paris and other parts of Europe certainly make for entertaining read. ...more \u201cWe called Paris the great good place, then, and it was. We invented it after all. We made it with our longing and cigarettes and Rhum St. James; we made it with smoke and smart and savage conversation and we dared anyone to say it wasn\u2019t ours. Together we made everything and then we busted it apart again.\u201d Paula McLain has created a very entertaining, atmospheric novel depicting the lives of a young, up-and-coming writer, Ernest Hemingway, and his first wife and perhaps love of his life, Hadley \u201cWe called Paris the great good place, then, and it was. We invented it after all. We made it with our longing and cigarettes and Rhum St. James; we made it with smoke and smart and savage conversation and we dared anyone to say it wasn\u2019t ours. Together we made everything and then we busted it apart again.\u201d Paula McLain has created a very entertaining, atmospheric novel depicting the lives of a young, up-and-coming writer, Ernest Hemingway, and his first wife and perhaps love of his life, Hadley Richardson. I thoroughly enjoyed reading about this celebrated but somehow ill-fated couple and how they met, fell in love, and made a life for themselves in the post-war world of 1920\u2019s Paris. Hadley, having come from a difficult childhood with an overbearing mother and a depressed father, has now lost both parents and feels destined to never find love. Her father\u2019s violent death weighs heavy on her mind, and at her mother\u2019s deathbed Hadley reflects \u201cI knew that I too could die in this room. This was one way my life\u2019s wheel could turn\u2026 She\u2019d always seemed to take pleasure in the quietness of my life, as if I\u2019d become what she thought I would, which was not much of anything at all. This tugging was very old and powerful, and I knew I could easily give in to it, in to nothingness. Or I could push with everything I had the other way.\u201d This is exactly what she determines to do once she meets the young, handsome, and vibrant Ernest Hemingway. I could certainly understand how Hadley fell for him and why she felt she needed this spirited man in her life. After marrying, Ernest and Hadley certainly lived the fast life in Paris with an abundance of drinking, socializing with an exclusive crowd, and fabulous excursions to such places as Spain and the Swiss Alps. I can\u2019t even imagine such excess! Hadley was dedicated to him and supportive financially and emotionally. I worried for her and eventually became a bit irked when I saw how much she depended on him. I realize, however, how easy it is for me to think this way as I sit here, a modern woman with a diversity of choices in the year 2015. I really became quite vexed by Ernest\u2019s behavior and selfishness. He wanted it all \u2013 the writing, the fame, the wife, and the mistress. In one of the brief snippets told from the third person point of view, we read this \u201cSometimes, after hours lying awake, it came to him clearly that he only had to change his life to match his circumstances\u2026 A new girl got you talking, and telling her everything made it fresh again. She called you out of your head and stopped the feeling that the best part of you was being shaved away, inch by inch.\u201d The betrayal that Hadley suffered at the hands of her husband and her close friend was really quite sad. Pauline, in my opinion, was one of the lowest, most degenerate kind of \u201cfriend\u201d one could ever have the misfortune to endure. The birth of her son, fondly called Bumby, was really a turning point for Hadley, and I was happy for her. She now had a purpose and someone to devote herself to other than Ernest. I think she finally found a sense of peace and well-being in her love for Bumby. \u201cIt wasn\u2019t just purpose that had come along to fill me. My days were richer and made more sense.\u201d After reading this rich and well-researched novel, I believe that Ernest Hemingway was never truly able to escape the nightmares of war and was not able to ever truly be content with the gifts which were given to him. He seemed to always be seeking for more and never understood that he may have had enough right there at the beginning. I am convinced that Hadley really was \u201cabove it somehow, better and finer than the rest of us.\u201d For this she was rewarded with a long and successful second marriage and a happy life. ...more This is a very confounding novel to write about. Maybe it was intentionally dull for the first three quarters. It eventually achieved a level of conviction as the marriage between Hadley and Ernest Hemingway began to tank. It's as if Hadley couldn't reflect on her married life until it was lost to her. It was like reading two separate books. The first part is filled with stilted prose and the daily drivel of everyday life. It isn't until she and Hemingway return to Spain- the inspiration for Th This is a very confounding novel to write about. Maybe it was intentionally dull for the first three quarters. It eventually achieved a level of conviction as the marriage between Hadley and Ernest Hemingway began to tank. It's as if Hadley couldn't reflect on her married life until it was lost to her. It was like reading two separate books. The first part is filled with stilted prose and the daily drivel of everyday life. It isn't until she and Hemingway return to Spain- the inspiration for The Sun Also Rises -that Hadley begins to speak in her own voice. From then on the story shifts its focus from chronicling what they ate, drank and wore and begins to examine the complexity of their marriage, offering some insights into their characters. I can't understand why the editor allowed such a disconnect between the early and later parts of the book. There is a fascinating story here but it will be up to someone else to tell it. For Ernest's version of these events check out A Moveable Feast . Here's a link to my review of it: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ...more Hemingway was a great writer and a star to his generation. As I read The Paris Wife I never understood why Hadley married a boy who had a fling with her best friend. The character Hadley is somewhat of a naive nebbish. She knows that she is robbing the cradle. She follows him; supports him: admires him; and does nothing herself. Her accidental pregnancy probably wasn't an accident. The Hemingway's hung out with talented self centered people of means. Hadley lost herself and tried to morph into Er Hemingway was a great writer and a star to his generation. As I read The Paris Wife I never understood why Hadley married a boy who had a fling with her best friend. The character Hadley is somewhat of a naive nebbish. She knows that she is robbing the cradle. She follows him; supports him: admires him; and does nothing herself. Her accidental pregnancy probably wasn't an accident. The Hemingway's hung out with talented self centered people of means. Hadley lost herself and tried to morph into Ernest. This is not a way to keep a man or even keep yourself. I would have left her too. As I read this novel I found that there wasn't a single character who I felt any respect for. I will read a bit more of Hemingway to see if I can see why he was so magnetic. I will not search out any of Paula McClain's work. ...more Hadley Richardson was the first of Ernest Hemingway\u2019s four wives and this is her fictional memoir. It starts in Chicago, where the na\u00efve Hadley meets and falls in love with Hemingway and ends with Hadley\u2019s account of the last conversation she had with Hemingway before he committed suicide in 1961. The focus of the novel is on Hadley and Hemingway\u2019s life in Paris in the 1920s as Hemingway pursued his dream of becoming a successful writer, and on the eventual breakdown of their relationship. McLai Hadley Richardson was the first of Ernest Hemingway\u2019s four wives and this is her fictional memoir. It starts in Chicago, where the na\u00efve Hadley meets and falls in love with Hemingway and ends with Hadley\u2019s account of the last conversation she had with Hemingway before he committed suicide in 1961. The focus of the novel is on Hadley and Hemingway\u2019s life in Paris in the 1920s as Hemingway pursued his dream of becoming a successful writer, and on the eventual breakdown of their relationship. McLain appears to have done her research well. She lists her resources in an author\u2019s note and, as far as I can tell from other things I've read, the novel is historically accurate. The prose is okay, although the dialogue is generally rather flat and there is some heavy-handed foreshadowing. What doesn\u2019t work at all, in my opinion, are the occasional chapters told from Hemingway\u2019s point of view. These chapters are in the third person, which is just as well, because McLain would not have been able to capture Hemingway\u2019s voice. In any event, given that this is supposed to be Hadley\u2019s story, the chapters add little to the narrative. In the past, I\u2019ve tended to avoid novels which feature historical figures as characters. This is because I\u2019d rather read a biography based on primary sources than a novelist\u2019s re-interpretation of biographical material. Reading Hilary Mantel\u2019s novels about Thomas Cromwell ( Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies ) and the French Revolution ( A Place of Greater Safety ) made me re-think that position, at least in relation to historical figures from the more distant past. However this novel tends to reinforce it and I suspect that I would find a biography of Hadley Hemingway more interesting than this work. That said, I found it an engaging read in spite of its weaknesses and I finished it in a couple of sittings. It was just the book for me to read right now, immersed as I have been in reading about expatriate writers in 1920s Paris. It was also a very welcome gift from my lovely friend Jemidar. ...more Although the first half of the book was slow and boring for me, I found myself becoming more interested in Hemingway and his crazy life in the 1920's the last 100 pages or so to the point of researching and reading more about him on line. (view spoiler) [His ending of suicide is sad, but after his wild life of alcoholism and adultery, at least Hemingway wrote that \"he would rather have died than fallen in love with anyone but Hadley.\" That was at least something, I guess, for Hadley. (hide spoile Although the first half of the book was slow and boring for me, I found myself becoming more interested in Hemingway and his crazy life in the 1920's the last 100 pages or so to the point of researching and reading more about him on line. (view spoiler) [His ending of suicide is sad, but after his wild life of alcoholism and adultery, at least Hemingway wrote that \"he would rather have died than fallen in love with anyone but Hadley.\" That was at least something, I guess, for Hadley. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Which is best to read ? A Moveable Feast or Paris Without End: The True Story of Hemingway's First Wife or this. I cannot say any of them grab me to 100%. Different points of view, different authors, different styles, fiction or non-fiction ...... The only way to know is to try. Paris Without End: The True Story of Hemingway's First Wife is unfortunately not available. I do prefer biographies. I will start with this and then read A Moveable Feast . I have in the meantime read a biography on Hemingwa Which is best to read ? A Moveable Feast or Paris Without End: The True Story of Hemingway's First Wife or this. I cannot say any of them grab me to 100%. Different points of view, different authors, different styles, fiction or non-fiction ...... The only way to know is to try. Paris Without End: The True Story of Hemingway's First Wife is unfortunately not available. I do prefer biographies. I will start with this and then read A Moveable Feast . I have in the meantime read a biography on Hemingway so the material is not new. However this focused on the writer himself and less on Hadley, his first wife, and some say the true love of his life. He had four wives. So I knew the facts before even picking up the book. I wanted to understand Hadley. I wanted to get inside Hadley's head. I wanted to understand and feel her relationship with Hemingway. This should shed light on Hemingway too. Did the book give me what I was looking for? Only by the book's end did I get the connection with Hadley that I was searching for. For me, the writing about how their marriage failed was much stronger than the details of how they fell in love. I had to fight the boredom of reading about what I already knew. The dissolution of their marriage was new and written with insight. I never liked the Hemingways' lifestyle. I was dissatisfied with both Ernest and Hadley. The drinking and partying and incessant complaining, even when on vacation. Everybody knows of Ernest's irascible and egotistical temperament. But Hadley, she sits on her butt and does nothing. Of course she is bored. Get a job, or play the piano, or do whatever you want but do something. Instead she gets a maid...... This is the way it was and this is a book about real events and of course they shouldn't be changed, but I felt nothing but scorn. Why didn't I empathize? Because the dialogs and the lines of the book felt flat. No sizzle. At least Ernest's words could have ignited me, but they didn't. When the marriage fails, you see how Hadley has matured. I like the stronger, more mature Hadley a lot more! Ernest was a hopeless case. I never came to empathize with Ernest, but the biography did not do that for me either, even if he had plenty of problems to cope with too. The audiobook I listened to is narrated by Carrington MacDuffie. She throws in dialects very well. French pronunciation is fine. The tempo fine too. But she has this funny way of going up at the end of her sentences that is peculiar. Almost like the lines are sung, some of them at least. The narration was fine really; I am just being picky. Except, I did not like her voice for Ernest. Not strong enough. This is a book about Hadley and her years with Hemingway. It is a book about her much more than him, just as the title indicates. There is a short epilogue that skims VERY briefly over her later life after her divorce from Ernest in January 1927. The book is well researched, but it is not complete and the writing did not excite me. My next book will be A Moveable Feast . There I will get the strength of Hemingway's writing. Fun to compare the two. ...more", "Title": "The Paris Wife"},
