{"Comments": "<+++>Dead Wrong: Straight Facts on the Country's Most Controversial Cover-Ups</+++>MOST INTERESTING BOOK I EVER READ This is literally the most interesting book that I have ever seen. I got to see an advance copy of it. There are many charts that contain fascinating information on why these so called suicides appear to be murders and also on why the official versions of the assassinations of the Kennedys and Martin Luther King are definitely incorrect. There is a great Timeline that details almost every minute of the last day of Marilyn Monroe. There is another totally fascinat MOST INTERESTING BOOK I EVER READ This is literally the most interesting book that I have ever seen. I got to see an advance copy of it. There are many charts that contain fascinating information on why these so called suicides appear to be murders and also on why the official versions of the assassinations of the Kennedys and Martin Luther King are definitely incorrect. There is a great Timeline that details almost every minute of the last day of Marilyn Monroe. There is another totally fascinating Timeline for the last day of Doctor David Kelly. Doctor Kelly saw through the lies of the Iraq War and he tried to tell the world and had to be eliminated. They prove a lot and explain how the pieces of the puzzles fit together. Plus the forensic information and scientific details overwhelmingly support the authors claims of murder. I mean it when I say that I could not put this book down. I was totally enchanted by the excellent material and the incredibly logical and persuasive arguments. They also prove with facts that President Kennedy was killed by a conspiracy involving more than one assassin. And they really do prove it too. They prove the exact same thing on the assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy. On Martin Luther King they prove that the man who was convicted of the crime literally could not have been the killer.<---F> Amazing stuff</---F>. And it is all very factual and backed up by supporting evidence. After reading the information in this book there is no other conclusion that is logical except that Marilyn Monroe was murdered and that it is simply not even possible logically to conclude otherwise. I was honestly skeptical at first myself. But now I see it. They absolutely and totally prove it by taking it step by step medically as far as the actual evidence. It is absolutely amazing information. The other chapters are just as interesting. They prove each case with facts and do not even venture into the field of opinions. Vince Foster who was the White House attorney during President Clinton was also murdered. I never understood that case before but now I do. Get this book. I am dead serious and no pun intended. I am sure that you will find it as fascinating as I did. I am buying it for everyone I know! THAT IS HOW GOOD IT IS. ...more 3.5-stars I generally take the claims these kinds of books posit with a grain a salt. But I am actually quite sympathetic to some of this stuff. The Marylin Monroe story,<---M> for instance</---M>, that\u2019s one I need to know more about. All of it\u2019s a fun read, though. It\u2019s like ghost stories for me: they can be quite fun if you can suspend disbelief and read them in the middle of the night. I don't have any theories. All I have are the facts. The above quote is from the book and it tells you a lot about how serious their research was for this book. It is a quote by a former FBI special agent who was one of the sources for their research and it describes this book very well because they really just lay out all of the evidence and follow it no matter where it leads. I got to read a pre-release draft of this book and it is a very cool compilation of actual evidence. The cases are fascin I don't have any theories. All I have are the facts. The above quote is from the book and it tells you a lot about how serious their research was for this book. It is a quote by a former FBI special agent who was one of the sources for their research and it describes this book very well because they really just lay out all of the evidence and follow it no matter where it leads. I got to read a pre-release draft of this book and it is a very cool compilation of actual evidence. The cases are fascinating when you look at the real scientific facts. There is an amazing chart in the chapter on John F. Kennedy that absolutely PROVES that even one professional sniper could not have done the shooting that the government says that Oswald did. It is called SNIPER SNAPSHOT and it is worth getting the book just to see that. ...more The book everyone must read. I'm also sure it will be the book the authorities want to suppress. This book looks at the mysterious deaths of 10 subjects by laying out how the official rulings contradict the ballistics, eye-witness accounts, laws of physics, and reason. Marilyn Monroe had so many drugs in her system that there was enough to kill 15 people even though she had no access to that amount of pills. She also had no traces of pills in her stomach, leading to the conclusion that she was killed with an enema, possibly by the Mob in order to create scandal for the Kennedys. Read the cha This book looks at the mysterious deaths of 10 subjects by laying out how the official rulings contradict the ballistics, eye-witness accounts, laws of physics, and reason. Marilyn Monroe had so many drugs in her system that there was enough to kill 15 people even though she had no access to that amount of pills. She also had no traces of pills in her stomach, leading to the conclusion that she was killed with an enema, possibly by the Mob in order to create scandal for the Kennedys. Read the chain of events of the day and evening leading up to her death and the aftermath of the circus that ensued to cover up the murder. See the lunacy of the claim that Oswald shot JFK in the front of the head while perched in the school book depository, which was behind the motorcade. Learn how Sirhan Sirhan shot RFK with a gun held three inches from the back of the senator\u2019s head, all while standing 10 feet in front of him. Martin Luther King\u2019s sniper stood much higher and to King's right, not directly across the way where authorities claim James Earl Ray made the shot. Even King\u2019s family didn\u2019t believe Ray to be guilty and in 1999 a jury concluded that King was murdered in a conspiracy \u201cincluding government agencies.\u201d Vince Foster, lawyer to the Clintons, was found dead in a park of a suicide in which no gun was found at the scene, and then a black gun turned up in his hand, and then a silver one. His body and the ground under him showing little blood and tissue matter\u2014 and impossible feat for such a horrific and graphic death. Read how eyewitnesses were forced and intimidated into changing their stories in order to match official findings. Learn about LBJ\u2019s hitmen, Oswald\u2019s link to the kill Castro plot, Aristotle Onassis\u2019 claim that he fronted the money for Bobby Kennedy\u2019s assassination\u2013 and even more shocking revelations that are neatly presented in this ground-breaking, fascinating account of history and the people who have been subverting the truth for years. \"Dead Wrong\" is scientific, meticulous and detailed, yet reads like a gripping suspense novel. I look forward to reading more from <---A>Richard Belzer</---A> and David Wayne. Don't miss the most talked about true crime book of the summer. ...more Ugh, that was one of the most tedious books to get through. Some of the cases were direct, to the point and enjoyable to read. Some seemed incomplete they were so short. But the ones that really got me (<---B>like JFK, MLK and Marilyn Monroe</---B>) were way too long. The repetition of the same facts over and over was rediculous. Ok, we get it after the second, maybe third time reading it, the pill bottles on the table next to Marilyn's bed were placed there to make it look like a suicide. That was just one Ugh, that was one of the most tedious books to get through. Some of the cases were direct, to the point and enjoyable to read. Some seemed incomplete they were so short. But the ones that really got me (like JFK, MLK and Marilyn Monroe) were way too long. The repetition of the same facts over and over was rediculous. Ok, we get it after the second, maybe third time reading it, the pill bottles on the table next to Marilyn's bed were placed there to make it look like a suicide. That was just one of many. I understand that the authors were trying to show that the government is covering up the true facts of these cases, but it was overkill. It is unfortunate because I did find a lot of the information interesting and unbeknownst to me. Unfortunately trying to get the tidbits of new information in between the repetition of the majority of the information was tiring, and I got to where I was just skimming through rather than really reading it. I will say that the afterward by Jesse Ventura was possibly the most interesting part of the book and something that really made me think. Not sure that alone is worth buying the book for though. ...more I'm counting the days until I receive this from Amazon -- Belz has advised people this is NOT a conspiracy book, but a FACT book. Check out www.belzerbook.com , as it's not your average website. (The music chosen for each murder victim is amazing!) The book is also on Facebook, as is Belz. (If you want to see Belz's site, it's www.iBelz.com and his Twitter is @MRbelzer. You can always tell him @Glock35Gal sent you!) Belz's co-author is David Wayne. You'll want to subscribe to him on Facebook. If m I'm counting the days until I receive this from Amazon -- Belz has advised people this is NOT a conspiracy book, but a FACT book. Check out www.belzerbook.com , as it's not your average website. (The music chosen for each murder victim is amazing!) The book is also on Facebook, as is Belz. (If you want to see Belz's site, it's www.iBelz.com and his Twitter is @MRbelzer. You can always tell him @Glock35Gal sent you!) Belz's co-author is David Wayne. You'll want to subscribe to him on Facebook. If memory serves, he's @DaveWayne on Twitter. He and Belz make a fantastic team! Richard Belzer and David Wayne ...more American main stream media is now recognized as a huge propaganda machine, subservient to the ruling corporate class and the Federal government, which itself is subservient to the oligarchy. But there was a time when media outlets were more trustworthy, certainly more trusted. This book provides a necessary counter-narrative to the \"official\" stories. Whether you agree with the analysis or not, it's important __ no, absolutely vital __ to look at each of the covered incidents from a different per American main stream media is now recognized as a huge propaganda machine, subservient to the ruling corporate class and the Federal government, which itself is subservient to the oligarchy. But there was a time when media outlets were more trustworthy, certainly more trusted. This book provides a necessary counter-narrative to the \"official\" stories. Whether you agree with the analysis or not, it's important __ no, absolutely vital __ to look at each of the covered incidents from a different perspective. Had we been more diligent in the past, we wouldn't have the comic book soap opera media/government disinformation machinery we're stuck with today. ...more one of the most important books to read It is said that facts speak louder than words, and with this book they are certainly screaming louder than you've ever heard them before. The one thing I've learned from this book, which I'll take with me for the rest of my life, is this: Should I ever find myself in the situation that I need to cover-up a political assassination, I should remember 3 things... (1) When setting up a patsy to take the fall, make sure and give them a weapon that could reasonably be expected to carry out the task (i. It is said that facts speak louder than words, and with this book they are certainly screaming louder than you've ever heard them before. The one thing I've learned from this book, which I'll take with me for the rest of my life, is this: Should I ever find myself in the situation that I need to cover-up a political assassination, I should remember 3 things... (1) When setting up a patsy to take the fall, make sure and give them a weapon that could reasonably be expected to carry out the task (i.e. range-capable and with bullets similar to those that will be found at the scene)... this is important because nobody is going to believe that a boy with a pea-shooter is capable of shooting down a passenger plane! (2) Make sure the cover-story/shooter is not located at a vantage point that will make the story seem ludicrous (i.e. located on a trajectory 180 degrees from where the actual live bullet will come from). (3) Don't refer to your patsy with a three-fold name; that's just a dead give-away :D ...more Completely captivating. Makes me ask the question, \"Why aren't people in authority investigating these?\" Oh, right... they could be the ones who staged the cover-ups and suppressed the investigations in the first place. It is hard to believe that corruption & murder can be traced to the highest offices of the land... but then that is where there is the most at stake, isn't it? If power is the sole objective, then ruthless power will be used to obtain more of it. The authors do not tell who t Completely captivating. Makes me ask the question, \"Why aren't people in authority investigating these?\" Oh, right... they could be the ones who staged the cover-ups and suppressed the investigations in the first place. It is hard to believe that corruption & murder can be traced to the highest offices of the land... but then that is where there is the most at stake, isn't it? If power is the sole objective, then ruthless power will be used to obtain more of it. The authors do not tell who the murderers are (that would be impossible to prove with the info we have been allowed to have), but they do point out where the official explanations are at complete odds with the evidence and the possibilities of the crime scenes... and who profited politically from the deaths. ...more A nice break down of the current evidence for a number of high-profile assassinations. Great book! Highly recommend this one! Super research-- super book! I'll start off by saying I am a huge conspiracy buff. Be it the sinking of the USS Maine to JFK, RFK, MLK, Roswell, John Lennon, Pearl Harbor, 9/11, etc...(and watching X-Files for 9 years) I love a good conspiracy. When I saw this book on the shelf, I nearly threw my arm out of my socket reaching for it. However, this was a HUGE disappointment. The material, in some cases, were interesting. However, it appears that the book was never formatted or proof-read. There are numerous typos and for some I'll start off by saying I am a huge conspiracy buff. Be it the sinking of the USS Maine to JFK, RFK, MLK, Roswell, John Lennon, Pearl Harbor, 9/11, etc...(and watching X-Files for 9 years) I love a good conspiracy. When I saw this book on the shelf, I nearly threw my arm out of my socket reaching for it. However, this was a HUGE disappointment. The material, in some cases, were interesting. However, it appears that the book was never formatted or proof-read. There are numerous typos and for some reason, the authors try to be creative and \"cutesy.\" It didn't work. Here are several reasons why I found this book frustrating to read--not due to the subject matter but rather due to the printing of it. 1) For some reason, parts of certain chapters are put in a gray box. Not sure why. 2) Quotes from people are separated in a paragraph by themselves, in a dark font. (Just quote the person: so and so was quoted as saying, \"....and then...) But these quotes are off by themselves, in a separate paragraph. And many times, the name of the person who said it is not named--so you don't even know who is saying the quote. 3) Formatting/Proofreading: I'm no English major but there are numerous typos in this book. Even though I only read 210 of the 306 pages, I noticed several typos. Twice I noticed the last sentence on the bottom of a page was repeated again at the top of the following page. The next sentence is a direct quote from the book--page 166, the chapter about MLK: \"Therefore,theshooterwasabovethevictim;notparallelintheroominghouseacrossthestreetwheretheofficualUSgovernmentversionofeverntsplacesJamesEarlRay.If..\" Yes--the entire sentence jumbled into one word! 4) Repetition: The authors apparently feel that the best way to state their claim and prove their point is by repeating the same phrases over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. (Annoying isn't it?) For example, at the outset of the chapter about RFK we are told that there were 14 bullets fired. Yet, Sirhan's gun was only capable of holding 8 bullets--so there definitely was a second shooter. Ok, interesting. However, we are told this same fact (14 bullets fired but his gun that could only hold 8 bullets) a total of 6 times in 4 pages. Okay already--we get it. This style continues throughout the book. In the section about MLK, we are told that the trajectory of the bullet was down and to the right--meaning Dr. King was shot from an elevated position--The rooming house where James Earl Ray supposedly shot him from was level--a straight shot. OK, very interesting. But again, we are subjected to repetition. This fact is told to us a good 8 or 9 times in 6 pages! 5) Style: They point things out, then start giving details. Then go back and point things out again. Another reviewer explained this perfectly, by saying it's like reading a Cliff's Notes version of the very book I'm reading. The only very interesting chapter was the one about Marilyn Monroe. I've read numerous books on the JFK assassination, all better than this. This one was interesting...but a bit 'all over the place.' The one about MLK provided no real new information. The chapter about RFK points a finger to Aristotle Onassis---but gives no reason why. The chapter about Marilyn Monroe was fascinating and interesting--but again, due to the format and repetition it was like reading a chemistry text book. Difficult-not to follow facts, but to follow the flow. A good chunk of the chapter about Monroe is actually divided into TWO columns! Yes, two columns! The column on the left hand of each page is a timeline of events, the right hand is the 'book part.' In other words, you read the columns to the left (the timeline) and then flip back 30 pages to read the book part. Also, on several occasions, the author tried to come off as \"cutesy.\" Several times, when he is about to make a strong point, he says, \"Ready for this, folks?\" or \"Can you believe that, people?\" Huh??? I think I did that on a book report in second grade and got a C-. This was a book I should have loved reading. This was a book I should have polished off in 2 days. However, it was a struggle to get through--due primarily to the way it was formatted and written. In closing, let me say that even though I am huge conspiracy nut, even I struggled to read this book. Very disappointed. ...more To those who complain that this book is too repetitious, and on that basis, give it a bad review, I say thus: you are fools, carrying on like a bunch of Victorian aristocrats arguing about petticoats when you should be discussing matters of substance. You would throw away a diamond because it has a speck of dirt on it. So caught up are you in the method of delivery that is not to your liking, that you miss the point entirely - this book actually provides details about the cases. Do the \"official To those who complain that this book is too repetitious, and on that basis, give it a bad review, I say thus: you are fools, carrying on like a bunch of Victorian aristocrats arguing about petticoats when you should be discussing matters of substance. You would throw away a diamond because it has a speck of dirt on it. So caught up are you in the method of delivery that is not to your liking, that you miss the point entirely - this book actually provides details about the cases. Do the \"official\" stories even offer up anything close? As for the rest of you, who hopefully understand the value of research, detail, and being given a proper story/argument, I suggest that you read this book. ...more I think it's safe to say that a vast majority of conspiracy books are full of nothing more than tinfoil hat nutjob stories and things that look like they came straight from the TV screens of The X-Files reruns. Dead Wrong is one of few that is different. Written by Richard Belzer (Detective John Munch of Law & Order: S.V.U. , this book uses modern forensic science to try to solve some of America's most mysterious and captivating cases, from Marilyn Monroe's suicide to the JFK assassination. I'll start off with the positives I noticed in reading this. First of all, it does seem to be well researched, pulling from as many different resources as it can to tell each story. It was also very interesting in it's common sense approach to some of the cases. Now, it did tend to repeat itself quite often. Which made it a little hard to read at times. There was also times when I felt like the authors strayed from the evidence and interjected their own opinions, which just made them seem desper I'll start off with the positives I noticed in reading this. First of all, it does seem to be well researched, pulling from as many different resources as it can to tell each story. It was also very interesting in it's common sense approach to some of the cases. Now, it did tend to repeat itself quite often. Which made it a little hard to read at times. There was also times when I felt like the authors strayed from the evidence and interjected their own opinions, which just made them seem desperate for the reader to reach the same conclusions they had. ...more poorly written, but still a fun read Well, I thought it was historically important. But that's why we wrote it!!! This book really is dead wrong. Conspiracies without proof. Ex. North Korea poisoning with anthrax can be easily checked on Wikipedia, which says that all allegations of it are unfounded. I don't say it's impossible, but at least there should be some real evidence, not ramblings about \"if you stick the needle into body full of crack, it will blow\". Nonsense for anyone who knows something about biology. Just another case that in America every idiot can write a fiction book, call it non-fiction, an This book really is dead wrong. Conspiracies without proof. Ex. North Korea poisoning with anthrax can be easily checked on Wikipedia, which says that all allegations of it are unfounded. I don't say it's impossible, but at least there should be some real evidence, not ramblings about \"if you stick the needle into body full of crack, it will blow\". Nonsense for anyone who knows something about biology. Just another case that in America every idiot can write a fiction book, call it non-fiction, and it will be more popular that something real. Vive le spectacle , let's make money from shit. Because of this even real facts can be considered as conspiracies if not folding right into conspiracy memes diseased brains. ...more This book contains some of the more notorious cover-ups that everyone has heard of (i.e.: JFK, Marilyn Monroe, RFK), but it also includes more recent and lesser known instances of possible conspiracy / cover-up. Very interesting! The layout is a bit confusing at time and does seem repetitive, but interesting none the less. While the content was interesting, the book was poorly written and repetitive. Had repetition been removed it might have been less than half its 306 pages. Nonetheless I found some things to say good about. I've always been a skeptic about the JFK assassination, and this book provides (once you wade through the repetition) the best explanation of who might have been responsible for it. In the Vincent Foster examination the book presents information of which I was unaware, although I did not at t While the content was interesting, the book was poorly written and repetitive. Had repetition been removed it might have been less than half its 306 pages. Nonetheless I found some things to say good about. I've always been a skeptic about the JFK assassination, and this book provides (once you wade through the repetition) the best explanation of who might have been responsible for it. In the Vincent Foster examination the book presents information of which I was unaware, although I did not at the time spend much time reading about the inconsistencies. (There was plenty of distraction available; the death of Foster was only one of many possible illegal activities the Clinton White House was dealing with.) And a final bit of good to report - bibliographies and footnotes are abundant in each chapter, so if you desire to read their sources you are provided with information on how to check. But the bad far outweighed the good. For instance, in the chapter on the RFK assassination I went back and reviewed content. There were several points the authors make in contravention to official \"facts.\" 1. Sirhan Sirhan was never close enough to RFK to account for the \"point blank\" shot that took RFK's life, 2. the trajectory of the fatal shot was from the back at an upward angle, not from the front, and 3. Sirhan's gun had only 8 shots, but there were at least 14 shots that took place. Those are important points, but they didn't need to be made six, eight, and seven times in the first ten pages of the chapter. Repetition does not prove, nor convince. In this case it merely reinforces the weakness of the material. Then, in those same ten pages, here are some quotes: \"So if the shots that hit Senator Kennedy actually had come from Sirhan's gun, then they would have had to defy the laws of physics - and bullets don't do that.\" Such a sardonic comment after the dash also reinforces the impression of weakness. The next page: \"...it is scientifically impossible that Sirhan killed him.\" And the next paragraph after that: \"...he could not have done it.\" In case you missed the idea, the words scientifically impossible in the second quotation and all of the third quotation were in bold font in the book. Bold fonts, underlining, and italics are all used to excess. One gets the impression that the authors are aware the material is weak and so they must reinforce its importance and substance with extraneous mechanisms. Another observation. One of the things I appreciated in the first few chapters was the authors' presentation of who, how, and why various entities might have arranged for the assassinations, in the case of JFK even suggesting why some were less likely than their preferred choice. I would have liked the same presentation for Vince Foster, and more than one option presented for RFK. (The one for RFK was a bit weak, not that it might not have been true.) And finally, while the sources were plentifully provided, I had the sense that you could use them to put together a good bookshelf of questionable journalism and reporting. I checked several times to see the sources, and while I could find references to the Washington Post and the House Select Committee report, there were too many references to less respected sources, like High Times and various web sites. I cannot imagine there were not more respected journalists who presented the same contentions at some point, whether contemporaneous with the deaths or in reexaminations of them. In summation, I found the book disappointing, and do not recommend reading it. It compiles information on 10 deaths and presents them in varying depth and with varying consistencies in presentation of content, but could have been just as lacking in value if it had covered only the five most prominent deaths, and avoided unnecessary duplication of facts. In which case it would have been 75 pages and I could have read it in one sitting. Alas, it wasn't and I didn't. ...more Coming to this (audio)book from 'Oh look, half the cast of Law & Order: SVU is reading this, let's give it a try even though I'm not that into conspiracy theories and am also pretty clueless about US-political history' was probably not the best idea. I guess some previous knowledge is helpful. I had only heard of JFK, Monroe, Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy before and only knew that JFK's and Monroe's death were a popular target for conspiracies without ever having bothered to look int Coming to this (audio)book from 'Oh look, half the cast of Law & Order: SVU is reading this, let's give it a try even though I'm not that into conspiracy theories and am also pretty clueless about US-political history' was probably not the best idea. I guess some previous knowledge is helpful. I had only heard of JFK, Monroe, Martin Luther King and Robert Kennedy before and only knew that JFK's and Monroe's death were a popular target for conspiracies without ever having bothered to look into the details. The other people mentioned I'd never heard of. And honestly: you could tell me a lot about any of the people mentioned in this book because, as said above, I didn't know much details about any of the cases. So what I'm left with was: - Some of the facts they presented definitely sounded like there was something to it - Some \"facts\" were bullshit - Both were repeated over and over and over and over again Let me elaborate on the last two points: some of the points they made were only general statements that are not wrong but also not always true, still, they presented them like facts. Like 'he was too cheerful in his final days to commit suicide', 'he was too intelligent to commit suicide in such a manner', 'a professional assassin would never miss with his first shot'. And yes, all of these are things that should make you stop and think but they aren't proof of anything. Another favourite was the Martin Luther King assassin who was a petty criminal who already had been caught repeatedly and therefore unlikely to suddenly switch to assassinating a major political figure and who was also a professional criminal who would never be so stupid to leave anything behind that would identify him...(independently from this the chapter on King was one that did quite a good work on convincing me that there's something dodgy going on but that bit was still a case of 'you can't have it both ways'). And then there was the repetition. Oh God the repetition. Oh God the repetition. It was that bad. I was wondering if my Audible app was somehow broken because 'didn't I just listen to these exact words?' But it was just a case of 'And X stated that it was like this' and the 'Y stated it was like this' and both would be the same word-for-word and then Z would also say exactly the same thing with exactly the same words. At other times I wondered if I had accidentally rewinded because 'didn't you already tell me that there were too many bullets?'...Oh, you're telling me again because the last time you did was about three minutes ago and clearly readers/listeners have the memory of a goldfish...oh you're saying there were too many bullets? So there were too many... I FUCKING GOT IT THE FIRST TIME OK! This audiobook took 12 hours and I bet you could have cut it down to 8 and there would still have been time to point out everything twice... So should you read this book? Perhaps if you're a bit more familiar with the cases than I am...or just listen to it because you like the voices of Kelli Giddish and Danny Pino as much as I do and I also have to admit I listened to much bigger crap because I liked a narrator... ...more Dead Wrong: Straight Facts on the Country's Most Controversial Cover-ups by Richard Beltzer and David Wayne contains an Afterword by Jesse Ventura. Jesse ends the book saying \"I want my country back.\" The ten controversies cover years from 1953 until 2003. I have to wonder how much a two-year-old knew about the United States and why he thinks the country belonged or belongs to him. And who took it? True, I was taught in elementary school, that our country was \"of, for and by the people,\" but eve Dead Wrong: Straight Facts on the Country's Most Controversial Cover-ups by Richard Beltzer and David Wayne contains an Afterword by Jesse Ventura. Jesse ends the book saying \"I want my country back.\" The ten controversies cover years from 1953 until 2003. I have to wonder how much a two-year-old knew about the United States and why he thinks the country belonged or belongs to him. And who took it? True, I was taught in elementary school, that our country was \"of, for and by the people,\" but even at its creation that was not true. It was definitely not a country \"of, for and by women,\" not to mention slaves who were not considered people. A group of now long dead men go together and formed the country, thus they were the governing body or government. Plus, the persons who roamed this land we now call the United States of America did not own land, nor name the expanse in its entirety as a country. Those people, too, are long dead. As far as I know, our country is still here, not taken over by another, thus it is still ours. That said, the book did not contain a lot of narrative leading readers to an assumption that a corrupt government took the country away from its citizens. I agree that as years pass, even as women, descendants of slaves and others gain the same rights granted to those early settlers, we, the people, have lost some inalienable rights. The reason I found Dead Wrong, just okay was due to repetition. Each chapter begins with a grid-type synopsis, person, cause of death, actual circumstances. The same info is repeated several times, either through narratives, sidebars and such. I do not question that the truth of these deaths were covered-up. For instance, Henry Marshall's cause of death was gunshot wounds from a bolt action rifle. His death was ruled suicide. I do not know much about bolt-action rifles or any guns, yet it seems unlikely a person could shoot themselves five times before one of the shots was fatal. Prior to reading Dead Wrong, I was aware of these controversies. The book starts with header: Warning. I quote: There are those in positions of power who malign the pursuit of justice by intentionally associating the word \"conspiracy\" with the delirious hallucinations of unbalanced minds. They're wrong. End of quote. How true that is. If facts presented in this book (and all over the Internet) are, well, factual, how can anyone believe, for instance, that Vincent Foster killed himself? Perhaps that is what Ventura means; that those with the power to order and cover-up murder can get away with it, even though their is proof that the official version is false. ...more Meh It was just ok. Interesting topics, but lots of repeating the same details and information over and over. Not recommended. Interesting synopses of contrary evidence to the official explanations of 10 famous political killings. The presentation is impressive though sometimes sloppy. The recitation of facts is mindful of a lawyer's brief for a trial rather than a \"staff\" paper that weighs the pros and cons of each case. Occasionally, contrary opinions are mentioned but quickly rejected. Definitely \"food for thought.\" Best observations : o Those leading a cover-up are not necessarily responsible for the event. o A conspir Interesting synopses of contrary evidence to the official explanations of 10 famous political killings. The presentation is impressive though sometimes sloppy. The recitation of facts is mindful of a lawyer's brief for a trial rather than a \"staff\" paper that weighs the pros and cons of each case. Occasionally, contrary opinions are mentioned but quickly rejected. Definitely \"food for thought.\" Best observations : o Those leading a cover-up are not necessarily responsible for the event. o A conspiracy only means that more than one person is involved. Surprise : o Jesse Ventura, who wrote the afterword, is listed as a visiting fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government (view spoiler) [I believe that the official explanations have been debunked in nine seven of the 10 cases. Two of the 10 cases (Henry Marshall, George Krutilek) involve deaths of men associated with the Billie Sol Estes - Lyndon Johnson scandal. The writers allege that LBJ authorized these killings, and others, \"... using hit man Mac Wallace .\" Actor, comedian Richard Belzer is co-author of this book. He also wrote, among others, the just published (4/15/13), \"Hit List: An In-Depth Investigation into the Mysterious Deaths of Witnesses to the JFK Assassination.\" Oliver Stone is probably happy . Actual facts, versus government reports, in the Frank Olsen and Fred Hampton cases have been accepted by most interested people. Writers have proven to me that the official stories concerning killings of JFK, Marilyn Monroe, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., RFK and the British WMD investigator, Dr. David Kelly, are wrong. While I disagree with some specific findings, they do not challenge my overall judgement. Facts listed in Vincent Foster's death are striking. Need more research on Foster's death as well as the LBJ killings. (hide spoiler) ] ...more I love conspiracy theories! I'm not saying I buy into them all and I'm certainly not one of those listening for the black copters the UN is sending to round us all up. I'm just fascinated by them and have been for years. I don't believe everything is being controlled by the Illuminati or the Freemasons, but I have never believed that Lee Harvey Oswald was that 'lone gunman' sitting up in his 'nest'. Richard Belzer's DEAD WRONG is a great place for those folks who, like me, are fascinated by consp I love conspiracy theories! I'm not saying I buy into them all and I'm certainly not one of those listening for the black copters the UN is sending to round us all up. I'm just fascinated by them and have been for years. I don't believe everything is being controlled by the Illuminati or the Freemasons, but I have never believed that Lee Harvey Oswald was that 'lone gunman' sitting up in his 'nest'. Richard Belzer's DEAD WRONG is a great place for those folks who, like me, are fascinated by conspiracies. While I'm not sure I buy everything in the book that he and David Wayne have put together, but you can't ignore the research they have done and some of the conclusions they make regarding some very high-profile murders. Not only do they look into the assassinations of both Kennedy's and Martin Luther King, but those of Marilyn Monroe and several lesser known cases. Like many folks of my generation I was never a huge fan of LBJ, but this book points the finger at the late President as responsible for several murders during his time in politics. hard to imagine the guy was even more ruthless than many of us had come to believe. I don't think you will believe everything, but the book certainly does contain a lot of information, along with extensive sources you can check yourself. Highly recommended! ...more A witness may not have seen a gun in the deceased's hand and verbalize that to someone else for documentation. Sighting that reference, a writer can call it a \"fact\" or say it is \"the truth.\" Yes, it is a fact the eye witness said, \"I saw no gun\" or \"there was no gun at the crime scene\" or \" it could not have been suicide.\" Yet, that does not made the presence or absence of a gun accurate; it is merely the witnesses' perception or account of the situation. This book is filled with references of w A witness may not have seen a gun in the deceased's hand and verbalize that to someone else for documentation. Sighting that reference, a writer can call it a \"fact\" or say it is \"the truth.\" Yes, it is a fact the eye witness said, \"I saw no gun\" or \"there was no gun at the crime scene\" or \" it could not have been suicide.\" Yet, that does not made the presence or absence of a gun accurate; it is merely the witnesses' perception or account of the situation. This book is filled with references of what people said they saw or heard or what they didn't see or hear, but using only specific documents to make a case paints a skewed picture. This is an interesting book. I liked the way information was presented, unfortunately there was much unnecessary repetition. I discovered lots of references to information that was new to me concerning the deaths of Marilyn, JFK, Martin Luther King, Jr, and Vince Foster. Nevertheless, much is perceptions, speculations, suppositions and biased. Which, ironically, is exactly what the authors maintain the government and/or authorities did to cover up and manipulate. ...more Very interesting read. My only complaint is the structure of the book. Especially the section on Marilyn Monroe. There are blocks of text that seem to be inserted in the story and consequently I found my self turning pages back and forth and on top of that there was an awful lot of repetition. I think that could have been done better and if it ever sees a revised edition I hope that will be addressed for future readers. That being said it was a very good and informative book and in particular the Very interesting read. My only complaint is the structure of the book. Especially the section on Marilyn Monroe. There are blocks of text that seem to be inserted in the story and consequently I found my self turning pages back and forth and on top of that there was an awful lot of repetition. I think that could have been done better and if it ever sees a revised edition I hope that will be addressed for future readers. That being said it was a very good and informative book and in particular the story of Marilyn Monroe convinces me that Marilyn did not commit suicide at all and was most definitely murdered but in the most bizarre method imaginable. It is a shame that history is blaming her for her own death. If this had been investigated properly then maybe we could have caught the one that murdered her and maybe the ones that put the hit on her as well. There were others in the book I was definitely aware of such as RFK and JFK and MLK and Vince Foster, but most of the others were new to me. I highly recommend the book though I wish it had been constructed in a more readable manner. ...more You know I love a good conspiracy theory! I've never believed Vince Foster or Marilyn Monroe killed themselves. Hmmm...Vince Foster committed suicide by shooting several times with a .38 and didn't get any blood on himself. Marilyn Monroe killed herself with so many Nebutol tablets she'd have been unconscious while swallowing them...and didn't have a trace of pills in her stomach...allegedly. JFK and RFK...very interesting. MLK--even his widow, Coretta Scott King, did not believe James Earl Ray did You know I love a good conspiracy theory! I've never believed Vince Foster or Marilyn Monroe killed themselves. Hmmm...Vince Foster committed suicide by shooting several times with a .38 and didn't get any blood on himself. Marilyn Monroe killed herself with so many Nebutol tablets she'd have been unconscious while swallowing them...and didn't have a trace of pills in her stomach...allegedly. JFK and RFK...very interesting. MLK--even his widow, Coretta Scott King, did not believe James Earl Ray did it...allegedly. Why didn't the police interview so many of the witnesses? The photos taken immediately afterwards show witnesses pointing in a different direction than towards the building Ray was supposed to have shoot from... The book does a good job pointing out inconsistencies, and suggests alternatives to the official version but does not push any one theory over any other. The timeline block in the middle of the narrative is confusing at best, and should have been presented at the beginning or end of the narrative. All in all this satisfied my love of a good conspiracy. ...more<---C>Richard Belzer</---C><+++>Dead Wrong: Straight Facts on the Country's Most Controversial Cover-Ups</+++>", "Title": "Dead Wrong: Straight Facts on the Country's Most Controversial Cover-Ups"},
