{"Comments": "I have to start this review by saying that I NEVER read historicals. In fact, the only historicals I have ever read have been the ones written by <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A> because I have loved every one of her books since day one. When I started reading this ARC,<---M> my first thought was</---M>, \"Crap, she snookered me into reading another historical book!\" My second thought was, \"Wow, this is fascinating!\" Having said that, this book is a wonderful tour through a character's life that sweeps you up and doesn't s I have to start this review by saying that I NEVER read historicals. In fact, the only historicals I have ever read have been the ones written by Catherine Anderson because I have loved every one of her books since day one. When I started reading this ARC, my first thought was, \"Crap, she snookered me into reading another historical book!\" My second thought was, \"Wow, this is fascinating!\" Having said that, this book is a wonderful tour through a character's life that sweeps you up and doesn't set you back down until way after you've finished reading it. If you were struck down in the prime of your life, woke up in Heaven and had 2 angels give you a second chance to go back and do it all over again, only there were multiple stipulations, would you do it? That is the premise of this book and the decision <---C>Gabriel Valance</---C> must make. If I went any farther into the review, there would be spoilers and I won't do that. Suffice it to say that Catherine Anderson is a writer with the astounding capability of sweeping you up from the first page and not letting you down until the last. She's an author who makes you think about her books long after you have finished with them.<---F> Read this book</---F>. You will laugh, cry, be angry, be sad then be happy again! ...more Catherine Anderson is a MASTER at grabbing your heartstrings and manipulating them however she so chooses. Her stories make you laugh, make you cry, make your stomach burn and leaves you with a gentle peace at the end. It NEVER fails with one of her books. 'Walking on Air' is no exception. It's the first novel of the Valance Family series and WHAT an introduction!! You instantly fall for Gabriel Valance, the tired gunslinger who wants nothing more than to know what being a part of a real family i Catherine Anderson is a MASTER at grabbing your heartstrings and manipulating them however she so chooses. Her stories make you laugh, make you cry, make your stomach burn and leaves you with a gentle peace at the end. It NEVER fails with one of her books. 'Walking on Air' is no exception. It's the first novel of the Valance Family series and WHAT an introduction!! You instantly fall for Gabriel Valance, the tired gunslinger who wants nothing more than to know what being a part of a real family is, instead of meeting up with those who want to take him out to make a name for themselves... if they survive. Catherine has an uncanny knack for sucking you in within the first few pages -- she grabs on tight and you're helpless from there on. She's more than competent when it comes to the old west and lives lived in a simple, hard time. When she's finished, you're left with a quiet peace. A contentment and excitement for the next installment. It's a strategy that, for people like me who loves historical western romance, wins each and every time. That's why she's ALWAYS at the top of my 'must read author' list. Thank you, Catherine -- for another beautiful, heartwarming story that makes me desperate for more. ...more Catherine Anderson is known for her down to earth novels with every day people as the characters. She is also known for her subtle use of present day domestic and social issues, even in some of her historical novels. Catherine Anderson\u2019s latest novel, \u201c<+++>Walking On Air</+++>\u201d, is the first in a series about the Valence family. This novel is a book to be savored as Ms. Anderson addresses more than one social and domestic issue. \u201c<+++>Walking On Air</+++>\u201d is about faith, both in God and one\u2019s self, second chances, Catherine Anderson is known for her down to earth novels with every day people as the characters. She is also known for her subtle use of present day domestic and social issues, even in some of her historical novels. Catherine Anderson\u2019s latest novel, \u201cWalking On Air\u201d, is the first in a series about the Valence family. This novel is a book to be savored as Ms. Anderson addresses more than one social and domestic issue. \u201cWalking On Air\u201d is about faith, both in God and one\u2019s self, second chances, trust, miracles and how love can overcome most problems. This novel also addresses the issue of family which does not have to always mean the traditional type of family. I highly recommend this novel as one of the best Catherine Anderson has written. A word of warning though, be prepared to laugh, to cry and to be so caught up in the story that at the end you are also hoping for a different outcome, a miracle. You cannot go wrong with this novel if you enjoy love stories written by the best. ...more I loved this book. The characters, the setting, the story and the tidbits of information in it kept me invested throughout each page. Second chances, taking a leap of faith when your faith is shaky to begin with, and creating a life worthy of living - all while learning that love and laughter are truly a gift. If you have loved previous stories by Catherine Anderson, you will not be disappointed. If you haven't? This is a great introduction to a master story teller. It's a keeper! \"WALKING ON AIR\"....by Catherine Anderson is one CHAMPION read! I am a HUGE fan and have read every book she has ever written. She has done it again. This story sweeps you right into the place she writes about, I swear you can almost smell it. She gives you a cast of characters that go right to your heart and soul. as hers always do and will remain with you. Where the hero, Gabriel Valance gets a second chance to change the life he has endured, with a spiritual twist, sure to delight you. How do \"WALKING ON AIR\"....by Catherine Anderson is one CHAMPION read! I am a HUGE fan and have read every book she has ever written. She has done it again. This story sweeps you right into the place she writes about, I swear you can almost smell it. She gives you a cast of characters that go right to your heart and soul. as hers always do and will remain with you. Where the hero, Gabriel Valance gets a second chance to change the life he has endured, with a spiritual twist, sure to delight you. How does this roaming gunslinger, loner of a man, accomplish this? You must read his story to find out. What a story it is..full of emotion and laughter. Every single book Catherine Anderson has written, gives you very strong emotions to the moral of the story. \"Walking on Air\" delivers! How the actions of one person can change the life of many, is just one of them. Bravo, to Catherine Anderson for creating such a beautiful story of love, compassion, honesty, trust and faith. ...more Do NOT let the word \"Historical\" fool you! This story reaches across all of time. Any modern woman will relate to Nan who is the heroine in this wonderful story. Gabe is a man anyone would fall in love with! This book very possibly may be Catherine Anderson's finest work! No book has ever made me so happy. If you believe in angels watching over us you must read! If you don't believe in angels watching over us, you MUST read!!!! You will laugh, cry and be angry but in the end you will be happy yo Do NOT let the word \"Historical\" fool you! This story reaches across all of time. Any modern woman will relate to Nan who is the heroine in this wonderful story. Gabe is a man anyone would fall in love with! This book very possibly may be Catherine Anderson's finest work! No book has ever made me so happy. If you believe in angels watching over us you must read! If you don't believe in angels watching over us, you MUST read!!!! You will laugh, cry and be angry but in the end you will be happy you read it and wish it could go on forever!!!! Don't miss this book! ...more Catherine Anderson has done it again! what a wonderful read Walking On Air was so worth the wait. This book was inspirational and fun. I am in love with the hero Gabe I love that some one who has their share of ruff times is given the opportunity to love and find happiness. I can't recommend enough that u check this book out and all her others as well. I am a die hard fan and place walking on air as one of her best. Walking on Air was wonderful! From page 1 I was hooked. This book is a keeper. Gabriel Valance, a gunslinger gets a second chance at life. Wow what a storyline, loved Gabriel the angel and his thoughts. Everything about this book was great. This is definitley one of Catherines most intriguing books she has ever put out. Sitting here it is really hard to come up with words to describe it. Wonderful, loving, a few twists and an ending I didn't expect. Yes, it is sort of a historical book because it's set in the 1800's, yes, it has more of a religous base to it then her other novels and yes, it catches you from the begining to the end. I love Catherine's books because it allows me to venture into a world that you WISHED was your world This is definitley one of Catherines most intriguing books she has ever put out. Sitting here it is really hard to come up with words to describe it. Wonderful, loving, a few twists and an ending I didn't expect. Yes, it is sort of a historical book because it's set in the 1800's, yes, it has more of a religous base to it then her other novels and yes, it catches you from the begining to the end. I love Catherine's books because it allows me to venture into a world that you WISHED was your world and it always has happy endings, unlike our real world where sometimes things don't end the way you want. What else can I say but I LOVED it, I don't see this book being a first into a family of characters but I do see a wonderful world with Gabe and Nan that I can visit once in a while when I need a good pic me up. Kudo's Catherine. ...more If you are acquainted with Catherine Anderson you will recognize her way of writing, that is both humorous and endearing at the same time. Her characters are believable and her new offering, \"Walking on Air\" delivers! Set in the late 1800's in Random, Colorado gunslinger Gabriel Valance is offered a second chance at life. Nancy Hoffman wants nothing to do with men, since fleeing abuse. Follow these two unforgettable characters through the wonderful words crafted by Ms. Anderson. This was another great one by Catherine. Definitely different from some of her others but I really enjoyed it. Always an uplifting story. I enjoyed the characters and it was an easy read. Really hoping that this will be the start of a new family series so we can check in on Gabe and Nan. Thanks again Catherine! A love story, humorous ar times, with redemption. I really enjoyed reading it. I love a second chance book and this one not only offered that to Gabe Valance, but it was a second chance at happiness and love for many. I loved how a hard lonely man dies at the hand of a gun, wishing he had one person who would morn him, finds himself at a version of the pearly gates and is given one month to help a lost soul. I felt the intro was not to preachy. I have very set ideas and while I like an inspirational, I don't feel comfortable if that becomes a focus of the book. I felt what I love a second chance book and this one not only offered that to Gabe Valance, but it was a second chance at happiness and love for many. I loved how a hard lonely man dies at the hand of a gun, wishing he had one person who would morn him, finds himself at a version of the pearly gates and is given one month to help a lost soul. I felt the intro was not to preachy. I have very set ideas and while I like an inspirational, I don't feel comfortable if that becomes a focus of the book. I felt what was presented was a just enough to set the stage for what was to come and that was a romance filled with hope, love, laughter and one of the most sensual and wonderful love scenes I have read in a long time. Just as I don't want a real preachy inspirational, I don't want an over sexed romance. I also like some humor to lighten the mood and break up conflict. I love that Gabe is a \"glass half full kind of man\". Born to a prostitute and left to raise himself on the streets when she dies, Gabes only legacy from his mother is the her gift of laughter. In a life filled with loneliness and waiting for a faster gun to take him down, that is a hard thing to carry with you, but a good thing to have. . Nan, has no laughter in her life. She was raised by an abusive father and when she finds he has pledged her to a man who will also exhort control over her, she finds herself running scared with her toddler sister and waiting for the law to take her away. Helping this lost soul will take a lot of patience. We find many more characters to fill this story, each one with need for a second chance at life and love. I fell in love with all of them. In all of Catherine Anderson's stories, she has a strong \"handi-cap\" to overcome. This time it was a really hard one. How does one overcome the handicap of a lost family. Lost to diease, neglect and abuse. A lifetime of loneliness, pain, believing that love is just another word for pain. How does one let go of the pain and trust that family can be the loving entity you can only dream of and glimpse through a window? Once again Catherine Anderson shows that love can overcome the trials of life and family is at the root, even if we have to create our own family in the friends we gather around us. Well done, and well worth visiting over and over again ...more Pleased to be on the review team for Ms. Anderson's new book. How many of us in life would not like to change or alter some events in our life. This is a story with multiple issues: love, trust, loneliness, fear, romance, companionship. This book has it all. From Angel Gabriel to the earth bound Gabriel, I was hesitant to put the book down wanting to check out what was going to happen next. The lead character is difficult, is it Gabriel, Nan or Angel Gabriel. I give all three the credit. Love An Pleased to be on the review team for Ms. Anderson's new book. How many of us in life would not like to change or alter some events in our life. This is a story with multiple issues: love, trust, loneliness, fear, romance, companionship. This book has it all. From Angel Gabriel to the earth bound Gabriel, I was hesitant to put the book down wanting to check out what was going to happen next. The lead character is difficult, is it Gabriel, Nan or Angel Gabriel. I give all three the credit. Love Anderson's work. Her heroes and heroines are quite believable. The show of strength, character and endurance is remarkable. A good read for anyone who loves the Old West and solid relationships. Praise for Ms. Anderson. ...more I was privileged to get this book before it came out in stores and once I started reading I was hooked. Once again Catherine Anderson took me to a little town and introduced me to a new family; the Valance Family. I was shown how the choices we make effect you and others around you. I loved that choices that Gabe made in the beginning of the book; and how those choices effected him and those around him all through the book. There were some story direction that I wasn't expecting and I loved that I was privileged to get this book before it came out in stores and once I started reading I was hooked. Once again Catherine Anderson took me to a little town and introduced me to a new family; the Valance Family. I was shown how the choices we make effect you and others around you. I loved that choices that Gabe made in the beginning of the book; and how those choices effected him and those around him all through the book. There were some story direction that I wasn't expecting and I loved that. I look forward to more stories on this family and small town. ...more Even though I read the blurb, this book still took me by surprise. It was like a cross between 'Touched by an Angel' (<---B>old TV show from 80s</---B>) and Charles Dickens 'A Christmas Carol' set in the Old West. It was a spicy historical paranormal romance and sweet inspiration romance. And yes, I know that sounds confusing and yet that's what I got when I read this book. I had changing feelings about this book, but for the most part they swung toward gentle pleasure in a heartwarming holiday read. That's Even though I read the blurb, this book still took me by surprise. It was like a cross between 'Touched by an Angel' (old TV show from 80s) and Charles Dickens 'A Christmas Carol' set in the Old West. It was a spicy historical paranormal romance and sweet inspiration romance. And yes, I know that sounds confusing and yet that's what I got when I read this book. I had changing feelings about this book, but for the most part they swung toward gentle pleasure in a heartwarming holiday read. That's the other thing that took me by surprise since I didn't realize it covers the time frame between Thanksgiving and Christmas. So yep, late holiday book review for you. Just think of it as like those people who leave the lights up all year round except in this case its books. The story opens at the end of a life and begins with the person being offered a second chance to make things right by taking on a difficult, but worthy task. Gabriel Valence grew up hard and learned to be tough and at the end of his life he has no good to balance out the bad that allows him to enter heaven. He never set much store by religion so learning that God and angels exist along with heaven and hell are only some of the surprises in store. He has a chance to make his life count, but its a slim one. He is offered a choice of three lost souls that he'll have one month to save. There is an old disheartened man who lost his wife and daughters to sickness so he wallows in dirt, misery and drink. There is a small homeless boy starving and freezing under the stairs of a brothel waiting for his mother to return for him. And finally, there is a beautiful woman who thinks she's a murderer so is hiding out with her sister pretending they are mother and daughter all the while she won't abide a man in her life ever again. Gabe immediately determines that's the soul he wants to try saving. The angels explain what he has to do to prove that his mission is complete and Gabe realizes it will take a miracle. He is dropped back in time exactly a month before he ends up getting shot with full knowledge of the future events and of Nan Sullivan's past to help him. He is not allowed to alter the future unless it is to do with Nan or anyone he directly wronged before. Nan is shocked by the appearance of the hard-eyed stranger who blackmails her into marrying him by threatening to reveal that she's a woman wanted for murder to the marshal. He claims to only want to feel what it's like to be around a family and a good woman and he promises he won't touch her until she gives her permission, but Nan doesn't trust him a bit. She is frightened of the idea of having such a creature in her home and around her young sister, but she has no choice. Gabe has no idea how he is going to gain Nan's trust and acceptance at first especially in light of her horrid past with an abusive father and a near rape experience to overcome. Just words won't work and even his actions are suspect. It will take time- time he doesn't have. But he engages in his task anyway. Soon restoring Nan, caring for her and her sister, and taking care of their future are not just a mission to save his own life in the hereafter. He comes to care and experiences happiness for the first time in his life especially when Nan and Laney really open up and accept him. It's at this point that he notices other situations that he has the power to fix if the angels hadn't set those no-interference with other people's future rules on him. He finds it nigh impossible not to help those others he knows about even if it means forfeiting all he hopes to gain in the end when his month is up. Gabe was never one for rules anyway and doing nothing when others are suffering doesn't set well with him. The plot on this one was pretty straight forward since its about Gabe finding redemption for his past, but it was also about the lives he will touch differently with this second chance. The pace was gentle. It was about character development, romance and the building of a family. Very heartwarming! I loved the majority of what I was reading, but... I had one problem. I'm going to say something on a touchy subject, but I can't very well avoid it since it sticks out in the story and isn't obvious in the blurb or categorization of the book. This book has strong inspirational romance elements in it. Everywhere I checked it is touted as being a mainstream historical romance so this is what I thought I was getting. First, I want to make it clear that I am not one who dislikes the mention of religion or any other philosophical thinking in a mainstream romance book so that is not why I had a problem with this. But- and here's the big proviso- that is providing that it can be done in an organic way that blends well and doesn't disrupt the pacing of the story. I find many authors struggle with the balance and it can be tricky. In this case, I felt that this story would have benefited from having several of the religious passages edited out. It felt preachy and unnecessary for the development of the story. It stopped the flow. Not that its wrong to put a strong thematic element into a fiction story, but smooth it in so that it doesn't push aside the story. I picked up the book because I wanted a story. Aside from that issue, I have only good things to say about this story. It was one of those warm, fuzzy Christmas reads that smoothed out the harshness of reality offering a lovely, neatly 'tied up in a bow' ending. Not that there weren't challenges and crises in the story. Oh there were, I even got that burning feeling of tears at one point when I thought all was lost. But in the end all came to rights and everyone was blissfully happy. I thought the romance was extremely well developed. Nan was hostile in the beginning and she was so broken by her past that there was no way I would have bought a fast-paced romance and this one was not fast by fictional standards. They were in the other's presence constantly and there were many scenes and references to conversations and activities that demonstrated the developing feelings and passion. Gabe had his work cut out for him. He had some growing to do in his own right because he didn't know much about being around good people or how to be with a lady. He was a coarse, rugged male with no apology, but he demonstrated tender feelings and gentleness too. I cracked up during the love scene when the totally innocent Nan and experienced Gabe finally came together. She is so buttoned up and ladylike that she has no idea how to even reference what goes on in a bedroom and he struggles to keep from shocking her with his very direct language. \"Wait!\" She braced the heels of her hands against his shoulders. \"We've a situation.\" He froze and held her gaze with feverish intensity. \"A Situation?\" \"I fear that the fit is all wrong.\" He stared down at her, and then his white teeth flashed in what she believed he meant to be a grin, but was actually more a grimace. \"Nan, just hug my neck and let me worry about the fit. Okay? Everything will be fine.\" Nan didn't think so. She had a small passage, and he had a very big friend that she now wished had been kept in the barn. Loc. 3596 Gabe and Nan I loved that Gabe fell in love not only with Nan, but Laney, Christopher, Pop and Jasper as well. He found a family to love. Some of those scenes of them all together were just priceless. I loved it when the kids brought the dog home and when they all worked on cookies together. Too cute! So in the end, I cherished the family feel, holiday scenes and romance set against an Old West Colorado small town for the back drop. I still scratch my head over how to recommend this book so how's this: Those who enjoy a sweet historical romance with splashes of some heat and spice as well as an inspiration romance feel? My thanks to Penguin Group and Netgalley for the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more Walking On Air is a heartwarming romance with an unusual start. As always Catherine did not disappoint her readers. The story is full of humor, love and the most hysterical idioms I have ever read. I wish the story could have kept on going. Gabriel Valance is given a second chance at life to prove he is a man who has a good heart and could love selflessly. As always, for me Catherine\u2019s stories warm the heart , have you stop and think about your own life and always make you fall in love with at l Walking On Air is a heartwarming romance with an unusual start. As always Catherine did not disappoint her readers. The story is full of humor, love and the most hysterical idioms I have ever read. I wish the story could have kept on going. Gabriel Valance is given a second chance at life to prove he is a man who has a good heart and could love selflessly. As always, for me Catherine\u2019s stories warm the heart , have you stop and think about your own life and always make you fall in love with at least one of the characters. In my opinion any of Catherine\u2019s books are worth reading and this one is no exception. Hope you enjoy it as much as I did. ...more This is a book about a love made in heaven, literally. Gabe is a gunslinger sinner that is sent to help Nan get over a horrible experience that makes her afraid of men and to actually hate them as a group. He tries to ease her through her feelings and make her the loving woman and she was created. This is a wonderful book and fast and easy to read. Catherine Anderson writes wonderful stories and this lives up to her reputation as being one of her best ever. (I have to admit that I say that after This is a book about a love made in heaven, literally. Gabe is a gunslinger sinner that is sent to help Nan get over a horrible experience that makes her afraid of men and to actually hate them as a group. He tries to ease her through her feelings and make her the loving woman and she was created. This is a wonderful book and fast and easy to read. Catherine Anderson writes wonderful stories and this lives up to her reputation as being one of her best ever. (I have to admit that I say that after reading every one of her books!) ...more Walking On Air sparkles with all of the emotional intensity, gripping plot twists, intensely involving characters, and that spicy touch of humor that have made her a bestselling author for decades. This book showcases the old-fashioned values of love, home, family, caring for others, reaching out, forgiveness and redemption that so often get lost or overlooked in today's society. A tremendously involving read that you will find hard to put down, and even harder to forget. Another keeper by a ste Walking On Air sparkles with all of the emotional intensity, gripping plot twists, intensely involving characters, and that spicy touch of humor that have made her a bestselling author for decades. This book showcases the old-fashioned values of love, home, family, caring for others, reaching out, forgiveness and redemption that so often get lost or overlooked in today's society. A tremendously involving read that you will find hard to put down, and even harder to forget. Another keeper by a stellar author. ...more WALKING ON AIR is an exceptional read. I was unable to put this book down from the beginning to the end. This is a historical romanced about a gunslinger who is sent by angels Gabriel and Michael after he killed to return to earth to help a young lady betrayed by her father. This story will have you laughing, crying, and sighing. A first of a new series by Catherine Anderson that has me craving for the next book. I recommend this to all who enjoy a good romance. I felt like I was \u201cwalking on air\u201d reading this masterpiece that will forever be a timeless romance. If someone reads this 100 years from now, it will still be memorable. Imagine that you were given a chance to extend your life after it ends. How would you live it, especially if you are directed by two angels to save a lost soul? Gabe, a toughened, ruthless gunslinger, enters Nancy\u2019s life. Through no choice of her own, Nan and her young sister, Laney, are forced to begin living with him, or the I felt like I was \u201cwalking on air\u201d reading this masterpiece that will forever be a timeless romance. If someone reads this 100 years from now, it will still be memorable. Imagine that you were given a chance to extend your life after it ends. How would you live it, especially if you are directed by two angels to save a lost soul? Gabe, a toughened, ruthless gunslinger, enters Nancy\u2019s life. Through no choice of her own, Nan and her young sister, Laney, are forced to begin living with him, or the secrets of her terrifying past would be revealed. Gabe only has 30 days to accomplish what he has been sent to do at this second chance in life. Both Gabe and Nan have never before found love in each of their vastly different lives. How can this work? What will happen after 30 days? As I explored each of their past, and as this story very brilliantly and smoothly changes each of them in such a short time, I couldn\u2019t put it down and lived this book both during my reading and after. This was a beautiful story that kept me smiling, laughing, and shedding some tears. I want to thank Catherine for writing this moving book, and look forward to the next one in this Valance Family series. As an aside, I wonder if Suzanne will be a part of this series. I want to learn about her life. (I received this ARC in exchange for an honest review.) ...more I have never been a huge fan of historical novels preferring contemporary ones, but lately, particularly after reading this one. I\u2019ve changed my mind! I\u2019m a person who needs a book to grab my attention by the first page, or at least the first chapter or I lose interest. That\u2019s the difference between a good book and a Great book to me. I don\u2019t want to merely like a book, I want to love it! I had no problem doing that with \u201cWalking on Air\u201d I was hooked from page one and it held my interest through I have never been a huge fan of historical novels preferring contemporary ones, but lately, particularly after reading this one. I\u2019ve changed my mind! I\u2019m a person who needs a book to grab my attention by the first page, or at least the first chapter or I lose interest. That\u2019s the difference between a good book and a Great book to me. I don\u2019t want to merely like a book, I want to love it! I had no problem doing that with \u201cWalking on Air\u201d I was hooked from page one and it held my interest throughout the whole book. I could barely stand to put the book down and would think about it even when I was doing other things. I would rush through my work so I could get back to it. I found the characters to be very likable and found myself loving all of them. Catherine has such a way with words that I could almost smell and taste the food and feel the pain as well as the love of the characters. She has a way of making her characters so real you forget they aren\u2019t and you begin feeling as if you actually know them! I\u2019m hoping to see more of Gabe, Nan, Laney, Christopher, and the other townspeople in a future book. I love all of Catherine\u2019s books but this one was one of my favorites. I will read it again in the future, and that is another sign of a great book! I smiled, laughed, cried, and cheered, this book had it all! It\u2019s going on my \u201cKeep\u201d list! Very well done Catherine! ...more Catherine Anderson takes us to the town of Random, a unique western town in 1880 Colorado. Complete with fair maidens and gun-slinging heroes, the town of Random comes together to support an unlikely paring in Nan (Nancy) Hoffman and Gabe (Gabriel) Valance. Cheering on an impossible mission, the reader must endure heady remembrances, but with these emotional scenes, though difficult to bear, the compassion flows naturally so that we find ourselves routing for good to win over evil, and for that \" Catherine Anderson takes us to the town of Random, a unique western town in 1880 Colorado. Complete with fair maidens and gun-slinging heroes, the town of Random comes together to support an unlikely paring in Nan (Nancy) Hoffman and Gabe (Gabriel) Valance. Cheering on an impossible mission, the reader must endure heady remembrances, but with these emotional scenes, though difficult to bear, the compassion flows naturally so that we find ourselves routing for good to win over evil, and for that \"second-chance\" to truly come for our hero/heroine alike. We find ourselves so engrossed in a tale so riveting, the pages seem to turn of their own volition! Wonderful story, makes one believe, not only in miracles, but of God's ability to answer even the unspoken prayers. ...more One of Catherine wonderful books! It's an inspiring book and I couldn't put it down. I hope we see Gabe and Nan in another book. You won't be disappointed reading this book! Hey I just noticed that this is book #1 of the Valance series, I'm a happy camper!! Gabe Vance is an infamous gunslinger who is shot dead on Christmas morning. Before dying he glimpses a beautiful woman staring at him. He wakes up to a rickety shack and 2 angels, Michael and Gabriel. The angels go through all the bad things, that Gabe has done in his life. That scene, all of chapter 2 is funny and heartwarming . The angels tell him they can give him one chance to go back to earth and save a list soul. They show him 3 people and have Gabe choose. He picks Nan, the woman who wat Gabe Vance is an infamous gunslinger who is shot dead on Christmas morning. Before dying he glimpses a beautiful woman staring at him. He wakes up to a rickety shack and 2 angels, Michael and Gabriel. The angels go through all the bad things, that Gabe has done in his life. That scene, all of chapter 2 is funny and heartwarming . The angels tell him they can give him one chance to go back to earth and save a list soul. They show him 3 people and have Gabe choose. He picks Nan, the woman who watched him die. He is sent back to Earth on Thanksgiving Day, to save Nan and her little sister Laney, by basically making them fall in love with him, and teaching them that no 2 men are the same and even the ones with the worst reputations and scariest first impression can change your mind and you can fall in love with him. I don't want to give a lot away, but I can tell you regardless if you have ever read Catherine Anderson or not, I urge you to read this book, the front cover has a quote from Debbie Macomber- \"Emotional and Heartfelt, her stories make you believe in the power of love\" 100% True ! I have read ever single Catherine Anderson listed in the front of this book, and 'Walking on Air' has moved up to #1 on my favorite list, so far... I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review ...more First of all, I received this book as a free ARC in exchange for an honest review. Walking on Air is reminiscent of Annie's Song. Annie's Song was the first book I ever read by Catherine Anderson and has remained my favorite of hers. I reread it often. I now have another top favorite book to reread by CA. This is just a wonderful holiday story to me. It starts on Christmas morning 1880 and then restarts on Thanksgiving before climaxing again on the same Christmas morning. In between those two hol First of all, I received this book as a free ARC in exchange for an honest review. Walking on Air is reminiscent of Annie's Song. Annie's Song was the first book I ever read by Catherine Anderson and has remained my favorite of hers. I reread it often. I now have another top favorite book to reread by CA. This is just a wonderful holiday story to me. It starts on Christmas morning 1880 and then restarts on Thanksgiving before climaxing again on the same Christmas morning. In between those two holidays so much humor, warmth and wonderful character development was unfolded. Gabe and Nan are superb characters and I fell in love with both. The author kept me on pins and needles with worry over how Gabe and Nan would achieve their HEA. There were many teachable moments in this story: the historical details of daily life in the 1880's Colorado town, (I love detail), living a truly Christian life (although this was never overdone), and listening to your heart to do what is right. Just an awesome story with some of the best characters. The story was like owning a box of chocolates that was infinite!! Never ending happiness. ...more I received a review copy of WALKING ON AIR from the author, and I read it in one sitting. I just couldn\u2019t put it down. Anderson has a knack for writing novels that weave supernatural elements into real life situations in such natural ways that the stories are completely believable. This story was no different. The hero, Gabe Valance, gets a second chance to prove he\u2019s not merely the hard-hearted gunslinger he\u2019s reputed to be by saving \u201clost soul\u201d Nan Hoffman from her self-imposed prison of isolat I received a review copy of WALKING ON AIR from the author, and I read it in one sitting. I just couldn\u2019t put it down. Anderson has a knack for writing novels that weave supernatural elements into real life situations in such natural ways that the stories are completely believable. This story was no different. The hero, Gabe Valance, gets a second chance to prove he\u2019s not merely the hard-hearted gunslinger he\u2019s reputed to be by saving \u201clost soul\u201d Nan Hoffman from her self-imposed prison of isolation and long work nights. He has one month to get her to open her home, and her heart, so that she won\u2019t be doomed to a life of loneliness and regret and he won\u2019t be doomed to an eternity of hellfire and damnation. Along the way, Gabe has to abide by rigid rules that prove more difficult for him to follow than he ever thought would be possible for him to abide by. Anderson has woven yet another tale of romance, passion, love, and laughter. She made me smile and cry and wrapped the story up in a heartwarming way, introducing plenty of characters that I can\u2019t wait to see again in future books of the series. If you like action and love romance, this is the book for you. ...more This has to be one of the best historical romances to come out in a long time. The engrossing plot, the depth of the characters keep you turning the pages till the end. From the first page I felt I was right there experiencing all the emotion, the choices and last but not least the growth of people who were as real to me as my own friends and family. Do yourself a favor and get lost in this 'angel' of a book. You won't be disappointed! Walking on Air, Catherine Anderson I loved this book! Years ago, I used to read a lot of historicals, but my tastes have changed. Now days, I\u2019m more inclined to read fantasy/paranormal & some mysteries/action books. But, there is a handful & I do mean one handful of authors that I still read their historicals. Catherine Anderson is one of them & Amanda Quick is the only other one I can think of at the top of my head. Come to think of it, probably because these also contain a bit of fan Walking on Air, Catherine Anderson I loved this book! Years ago, I used to read a lot of historicals, but my tastes have changed. Now days, I\u2019m more inclined to read fantasy/paranormal & some mysteries/action books. But, there is a handful & I do mean one handful of authors that I still read their historicals. Catherine Anderson is one of them & Amanda Quick is the only other one I can think of at the top of my head. Come to think of it, probably because these also contain a bit of fantasy in them. Gabe is a gunslinger that is shot on Christmas Day, but angels Michael & Gabriel give him another chance to redeem himself. They tell him he has to choose one of three people in Random, CO, to help. The catch is, he only has one month to do it. They give him strict guidelines he is supposed to follow. He is then sent back in time to Thanksgiving & has a month to help Nancy Hoffman change her life for the better. Catherine\u2019s newest book Walking on Air satisfied the fantasy/paranormal fix for me. I loved Gabe\u2019s interaction with angels Michael & Gabriel & their discussion on who gets to go to heaven. I really could go on & on about this book & the parts I loved, but I don\u2019t want to ruin it for everyone else. Great job Catherine Anderson. Keep up the great work! ...more Catherine Anderson has done it again. Gabe Valance was a gunslinger with his own code of ethics. He didn't ask for trouble, but he didn't shy away from it either. Nan Hoffman was running from an awful truth and found a new start and created a new life in Colorado. Gabe met his maker (in the form of Gabriel and Michael) and was given a chance to redeem himself. All he had to do was save Nan and not do anything to change what had already happened. He had 30 days to save Nan. I laughed and cried as Catherine Anderson has done it again. Gabe Valance was a gunslinger with his own code of ethics. He didn't ask for trouble, but he didn't shy away from it either. Nan Hoffman was running from an awful truth and found a new start and created a new life in Colorado. Gabe met his maker (in the form of Gabriel and Michael) and was given a chance to redeem himself. All he had to do was save Nan and not do anything to change what had already happened. He had 30 days to save Nan. I laughed and cried as I read this book. The characters just wrap themselves around your heart and you get completed immersed in the book. This is one of Catherine Anderson's best books yet. ...more", "Title": "Walking On Air"},
