{"Comments": "<+++>Heat: An Amateur's Adventures as Kitchen Slave, Line Cook, Pasta-Maker, and Apprentice to a Dante-Quoting Butcher in Tuscany</+++>I started reading Heat without any prior knowledge of Mario Batali. I'd never cooked from any of his cookbooks, or seen his show. That said, the book was an interesting look at his life - an absolutely crazy one filled with gluttony, extreme restaurant hours and seemingly never-ending partying. But the focus of the book is not only Batali (<---B>although he steals the show, in my opinion</---B>). Actually written by <---A>Bill Buford</---A> about his time spent in one of Batali's restaurant kitchens (Babbo in NYC), Heat a I started reading Heat without any prior knowledge of Mario Batali. I'd never cooked from any of his cookbooks, or seen his show. That said, the book was an interesting look at his life - an absolutely crazy one filled with gluttony, extreme restaurant hours and seemingly never-ending partying. But the focus of the book is not only Batali (although he steals the show, in my opinion). Actually written by Bill Buford about his time spent in one of Batali's restaurant kitchens (Babbo in NYC), Heat also tells the story of his progression from home chef (and former New Yorker writer) to that of a line-cook and ultimately a pasta maker at the restaurant. It also serves as a memoir of his own time spent in Italy learning to cook pasta and butcher, as well as a history of Italian food. I felt that the most interesting parts were those chronicling his time in the kitchen at Babbo and telling Batali's personal story. The parts that,<---M> in the end</---M>, were the least interesting to me were those detailing the regional gastronomy of Italy, or the history of pasta... even as a person interested in food and cooking, some of these histories just went into too much detail and were too lengthy to hold my interest (for example, a seemingly unending chapter on when and why cooks starting adding eggs to their pasta dough). I was starting to lose interest in finishing the book, but what I found to be the most engaging part of Buford's personal experience (working with one of the best butchers in Italy) drew me back in. Heat did inspire me to check out some Batali cookbooks from the library, because since I finished reading it I've been having some incredible cravings for pasta with Bolognese sauce. It's also another book in the same vein of those that emphasize knowing your food - where it comes from, its quality, and really how to cook and enjoy it - that seem to be all the rage these days. If you: A) are really into Mario Batali, or are: B) willing to hand-roll sheets of pasta until they're translucent, or are: C) considering buying a whole pig at the farmer's market and butchering it yourself in your apartment, this is likely the book for you. ...more I had mixed feelings on this one. It started out swimmingly--I was howling with laughter as the author detailed the highs (including the extracurricular highs) and the lows of the Babbo employment experience. I was shocked (in a highly amused way) by the author's description of Batali. Surely, the soft-spoken, well-mannered guy I cheer for on Iron Chef America could not be telling his servers to \"pistol-whip\" unruly customers with their unmentionables behind Babbo's closed doors! (If true, as a I had mixed feelings on this one. It started out swimmingly--I was howling with laughter as the author detailed the highs (including the extracurricular highs) and the lows of the Babbo employment experience. I was shocked (in a highly amused way) by the author's description of Batali. Surely, the soft-spoken, well-mannered guy I cheer for on Iron Chef America could not be telling his servers to \"pistol-whip\" unruly customers with their unmentionables behind Babbo's closed doors! (If true, as a former bartender, this makes me like him even more, if we are being honest.) Then, it got so sloooowww in the middle that I finally just skipped over several chapters near the end to see how it ended. I think the book would have been easier to read if it had been divided into parts that detail the different phases (Batali's professional education, the author's time at Babbo and the author's time in Italy). As it is written, I found it disjointed and distracting. I did really enjoy learning about Italy's food traditions and about different food preparations.<---F> It made me very hungry :)</---F>. ...more I read this book last year and it was deleted from my booklist by Goodreads. Who naturally say this couldn't happen, I must have deleted it myself. I've never been able to prove before that the book was on my booklist until this one. It's not on my list yet I read it, and I wrote a comment last October on a friend's, Karen's review. I just came across this comment today. \"The bit about eating pure pork fat close to the beginning really put me off. It doesn't matter what fancy name you call it, no I read this book last year and it was deleted from my booklist by Goodreads. Who naturally say this couldn't happen, I must have deleted it myself. I've never been able to prove before that the book was on my booklist until this one. It's not on my list yet I read it, and I wrote a comment last October on a friend's, Karen's review. I just came across this comment today. \"The bit about eating pure pork fat close to the beginning really put me off. It doesn't matter what fancy name you call it, nor that the pig ate apples and walnuts and cream for months before it was butchered, the fact remains that it is lard. Disgusting, gross and all the rest.\" I couldn't have written this if I hadn't read it. But that wouldn't do for GR, because I still can't prove that I didn't delete it myself. How can anyone prove that? Btw the book was quite good. Buford is full of himself, but not as much as Batali. If you like chef-stories this is about middle of the pack for interest and enjoyment. Read 2014. ...more I have to admit I picked this up because Anthony Bourdain was reading it on his show \"No Reservations\" (and he wrote Kitchen Confidential ). This is the story of an editor for the New Yorker who ends up in the kitchens of Mario Batali - it is an encounter of his experiences in the kitchen, plus a biography of Mario, plus a history of food - all at the same time. I really enjoyed this. It took me back to my restaurant days, expressing the outrageous kitchen culture that you would not believe if yo I have to admit I picked this up because Anthony Bourdain was reading it on his show \"No Reservations\" (and he wrote Kitchen Confidential ). This is the story of an editor for the New Yorker who ends up in the kitchens of Mario Batali - it is an encounter of his experiences in the kitchen, plus a biography of Mario, plus a history of food - all at the same time. I really enjoyed this. It took me back to my restaurant days, expressing the outrageous kitchen culture that you would not believe if you hadn't experienced it too. Following are quotations that were meaningful to me (I'm not sure they make sense out of context). \"Holly was offered a job. It paid five hundred dollars a week, with five days' vacation starting in her second year. There was no mention of sick pay because it was understood you didn't get sick, which I'd already discovered in the chilly silence that had greeted me when I'd come down with the flu and phoned Elisa to say that I wasn't coming in that day....\" \"In fact, without my fully realizing it, there was an education in the frenzy, because in hte frenzy there was always repetition. Over and over again, I'd pick up a smell, as a task was being completed, until finally I came to identify not only what the food was but where it was in its preparation... One day I was given a hundred and fifty lamb tongues. I had never held a lamb's tongue, which I found greasy and unnervingly humanlike. But after cooking, trimming, peeling, and slicing a hundred and fifty lam tognues, I was an expert.\" \"Give a chef an egg, and you'll know what kind of cook he is. It takes a lot to cook an egg.\" (This just made me laugh because in my restaurant kitchen, the CIA-trained grill cook could not poach an egg to save his life, and actually destroyed an entire dozen one day before the chef asked me to do it, and I only knew how because I'd read about it) \"In addition to the endless riffing about cooking-with-love, chefs also talk about the happiness of making food: not preparing or cooking food but making it.\" (passage goes on in detail about the satisfaction of the aesthetic pleasure as well as other people finding satisfaction in what you have made) \"The yelling, too, was not without its life lessons. When Frankie was abusing me, he was always doing it for a reason. He was trying to make me a better cook.\" There are so many more I could quote but they are too long - one page describes this day in a Florentine kitchen where the author trips, splits his head open, and catches on fire, and it is so freaking hilarious. I highly recommend this book. ...more Most food writing is shit. It wallows in superlatives as brazenly as real estate hustings. But really good writing about food makes the heart soar. This is in the second category. Partially because Buford is so craven, so desperate to GET what it is like being young, dumb and full of come in a kitchen more stuffed with wise-asses and borderline personality disorders than the average martini olive. Lots of guys take up lycra and the bike for their mid-life thingo. Or get expensive mistresses. Or fo Most food writing is shit. It wallows in superlatives as brazenly as real estate hustings. But really good writing about food makes the heart soar. This is in the second category. Partially because Buford is so craven, so desperate to GET what it is like being young, dumb and full of come in a kitchen more stuffed with wise-asses and borderline personality disorders than the average martini olive. Lots of guys take up lycra and the bike for their mid-life thingo. Or get expensive mistresses. Or foreign cars (the same thing, really). Buford rather sadly wants to cut it on the line in a four star restaurant. He is known as \u201ckitchen bitch\u201d. Happily for the reader, as a long-time food obsessed New Yorker staff writer with serious \u201cchops\u201d (sorry) in the descriptive department, it\u2019s a pretty great ride for the reader. Things I learnt from Bill Buford: 1.Mario Batali is deeply unlikeable. 2.Kitchens are the most unreconstructed misogynist bastions imaginable. Still. 3.Italians love a gesture. The thing that makes it ineffably charming, which gives it gravitas, is that they LIVE by such gestures. Even if it makes their lives in some ways suck. I was tempted to deduct points from Buford\u2019s giant schwing (sentimental and gee whiz all at the same time which is some feat for an erection) for artisanal production. YES, food made by hand is better. YES, frankenstein food production is a truly terrible side-effect of globalisation. But I\u2019ve heard it a lot. And it doesn\u2019t explain how in reality non-yuppies in urban settings can readily afford organic/local meats and produce. Other than to grown it, which is a HUGE leap for many folks. People don\u2019t want to eat shit, but gee, nutrition is pretty good nowadays. Have you SEEN the SIZE of the feet on sixteen-year-old girls? I didn\u2019t deduct the points because this book isn\u2019t so new, and perhaps the Michael Pollan-esque message was a bit fresher then. Buford scores because he makes it fun instead of holier-than-thou. You won\u2019t forget the Tuscan butchers he trains with in a hurry, either. ...more A must-read for foodies and Slow Foodies. In one passage of the book, Bill Buford becomes preoccupied with researching when, in the long history of food on the Italian peninsula, cooks started putting eggs into their pasta dough. He decides to go on a quest to Italy and meets with the cook at La Volta, a small restaurant in the town of Porretta Terme. Mario Batali lived and worked here during an internship before going to New York and opening Babbo. He considers the cook, Betta, and all the othe A must-read for foodies and Slow Foodies. In one passage of the book, Bill Buford becomes preoccupied with researching when, in the long history of food on the Italian peninsula, cooks started putting eggs into their pasta dough. He decides to go on a quest to Italy and meets with the cook at La Volta, a small restaurant in the town of Porretta Terme. Mario Batali lived and worked here during an internship before going to New York and opening Babbo. He considers the cook, Betta, and all the others associated with La Volta, extended family. And so Buford sets out to meet her and find out about pasta and what inspired Batali. Buford writes(page 198 of the hardcover): Betta's tortellini are now in my head and in my hands. I follow her formula for the dough--an egg for every etto of flour, sneaking in an extra yolk if the mix doesn't look wet enough. I've learned to roll out a sheet until I see the grain of the wood underneath. I let it dry if I'm making tagliatelle; I keep it damp if I'm making tortellini. I make a small batch, roll out a sheet, then another, the rhythm of the pasta, each movement like the last one. My mind empties. I think only of the task. Is the dough too sticky? Will it tear? Does the sheet, held between my fingers, feel right? But often I wonder what Betta would think, and, like that, I'm back in that valley with its broken-combed mountain tops and the wolves at night and the ever-present feeling that the world is so much bigger than you, and my mind becomes a jumble of association, of aunts and a round table and laughter you can't hear anymore, and I am overcome by a feeling of loss. It is, I concluded, a side effect of this kind of food, one that's handed down from one generation to another, often in conditions of adversity, that you end up thinking of the dead, that the very stuff that sustains you tastes somehow of mortality. ...more i got this to read on the airplane, and it did an admirable job for that precise purpose. but there's one thing that's a real problem for this book. About halfway through, he ends a chapter saying he has to leave New York to deal with \"personal demons.\" Fine. But he never mentions what they are/ were. And the book is all under the guise of a kind of memoir. If he's not going to tell the reader what those demons are, don't use it as a cliffhanger/ enticement to keep reading. Not only is it suprem i got this to read on the airplane, and it did an admirable job for that precise purpose. but there's one thing that's a real problem for this book. About halfway through, he ends a chapter saying he has to leave New York to deal with \"personal demons.\" Fine. But he never mentions what they are/ were. And the book is all under the guise of a kind of memoir. If he's not going to tell the reader what those demons are, don't use it as a cliffhanger/ enticement to keep reading. Not only is it supremely annoying, but it detracts and distracts from the rest of the book. What the hell kind of editor would let that in anyway: \"Hey, why don't you leave a tease in there about your personal life, and then never come back to it? I'm sure the reader would love that! Especially since they're probably reading this book more to find out about food than you! So why not get the interested in your life for 5 seconds.\" Assholes. ...more Wow, I enjoyed this way more than I expected! On more than one occasion I ate lunch in my car so I could keep listening. Hilarious, insightful, and mouth-watering. Buford's taste in food is just a bit different from mine - I can't count the pounds of \"lardo\" that he consumes over the telling - but his journey feels very kindred. Amateur cook learns skills, travels to Italy, appreciates homemade traditional food. Except he happens to be completely obsessive and surrounded by larger than life char Wow, I enjoyed this way more than I expected! On more than one occasion I ate lunch in my car so I could keep listening. Hilarious, insightful, and mouth-watering. Buford's taste in food is just a bit different from mine - I can't count the pounds of \"lardo\" that he consumes over the telling - but his journey feels very kindred. Amateur cook learns skills, travels to Italy, appreciates homemade traditional food. Except he happens to be completely obsessive and surrounded by larger than life characters and a writer by profession. I loved all of the elements that Buford wove together, but the only reason the book doesn't make the 5 star cut is that it did feel completely schizophrenic at times, like he couldn't decide if he was writing a memoir, a biography of Mario Batali, or a history of Italian Renaissance cooking. It jumps back and forth thematically and chronologically, so you just kind of have to give up trying to follow along and take from it what you will. Piles of bonus points for a book about meat with the utmost respect for the animals. He even writes that he appreciates vegetarians because they are among the few people who actually THINK about meat. Also, I get cranky when I read too much about locavores and the green revolution and won't someone pleeease think of the children blah blah blah. So much better when someone recognizes traditional food as this powerfully conservative force. He has a beautiful passage about how the essence of what he has learned comes down to handmade. Indulge me in an extensive quote... \"Italians have a word, casalinga, homemade, although its primary sense is \"made by hand.\" My theory is just a variant of casalinga. (Small food: by hand and therefore precious, hard to find. Big food: from a factory and therefore cheap, abundant.) Just about every preparation I learned in Italy was handmade and involved my learning how to use my own hands differently. My hands were trained to roll out dough, to use a knife to break down a thigh, to make sausage or lardo or polpetone. With some techniques, I had to make my hands small, like Betta's. With others, I made them big, like the Maestro's. The hands, Dario says, are everything. With them, cooks express themselves, like artists. With them, they make food that people use their hands to eat. With the hands, Dario passes on to me what he learned from his father. With the hands, Betta gives me her aunts. The hands of Miriam's mother, her grandmothers. The hands of Dario's grandfather, the great-grandfather he never met, except indirectly, in what was passed on through his hands. Miriam, who can't get a pastina to roll out the dough, no longer makes handmade pasta. When her daughter takes over, will she roll it out by hand? In Tuscany, you can't get the meat at the heart of the region's cooking, so Dario and the Maestro found a small farm that reproduces the intensity of flavor they grew up with. How long will that taste memory last? The Maestro will die. Dario will die. I will die. The memory will die. Food made by hand is an act of defiance and runs contrary to everything in our modernity. Find it; eat it; it will go. It has been around for millennia. Now it is evanescent, like a season.\" ...more I loved this book a whole lot - and warn that should you tackle it, please do so with a large amount of red wine and italian food readily available. Much like it's torture to watch Chocolat without chocolate, it would be rude not to eat pasta and drink red wine while this book's in your life. The book's an amalgamation of many things I love - cooking, peeking behind the scenes at famous restaurants, drinking wine, contemplating where food does and should come from. Buford spent just over a year s I loved this book a whole lot - and warn that should you tackle it, please do so with a large amount of red wine and italian food readily available. Much like it's torture to watch Chocolat without chocolate, it would be rude not to eat pasta and drink red wine while this book's in your life. The book's an amalgamation of many things I love - cooking, peeking behind the scenes at famous restaurants, drinking wine, contemplating where food does and should come from. Buford spent just over a year slowly learning skills in Mario Batali's kitchen, and his memoir of those months is interspersed by historical wanderings - when did eggs come to replace water in preparing pasta dough? Who wrote the first definitive Italian cookbook? Did Catherine de Medici really create French cuisine when she moved to France, betrothed to a Prince? There's even a little philosophizing on offer, a la Pollan and Bittman - it's not fast food or slow food that's the issue, Buford argues, it's big food and little food that matters: Italians have a word, casalinga , homemade, although its primary sense is \"made by hand.\" My theory is just a variant of casalinga . (Small food: by hand and therefore precious, hard to find. Big food: from a factory and therefore cheap, abundant.) I loved the behind-the-scenes details of what goes on in the kitchen of a good restaurant, and the historical diversions, and the quotes from centuries-old textbooks. Buford delivers all of it with a good sense of humor, especially when reflecting on his own mistakes, and the whole thing is fascinating and entertaining to a really remarkable degree. Yay book! ...more A terrific reading of a hugely entertaining book. The very long title pretty much summarizes the gist: Mr. Buford, a writer and editor, finagles a job working in Chef Mario Batali's NYC restaurant, Babbo, starting as lowly, brow-beaten kitchen prep, and proceeds, without any real ambition, to work his way up, somewhat, in the kitchen hierarchy. This stretch of the book will be familiar to anyone who has read Anthony Bourdain's \"Kitchen Confidential,\" both in terms of restaurant and cooking detai A terrific reading of a hugely entertaining book. The very long title pretty much summarizes the gist: Mr. Buford, a writer and editor, finagles a job working in Chef Mario Batali's NYC restaurant, Babbo, starting as lowly, brow-beaten kitchen prep, and proceeds, without any real ambition, to work his way up, somewhat, in the kitchen hierarchy. This stretch of the book will be familiar to anyone who has read Anthony Bourdain's \"Kitchen Confidential,\" both in terms of restaurant and cooking detail plus, to an extent, similarity of writing style (both Mr. Buford and Mr. Bourdain are very good writers). The difference from \"Kitchen Confidential\" lies in Mr. Buford's self-professed (and I think genuine) lack of ambition in pursuing any sort of restaurant career - basically he's there for the education and, apparently, for the writing material. The book then morphs into descriptions of two stints the author makes in Italy, one to learn how to make pasta and the other how to butcher (and cook) meat. These aren't just stints in Italy, they are stints in (emphasis, please) Tuscany - both the pasta maker and the butcher with whom Mr. Buford works and learns show immense pride in their particular region, and the bits about Tuscans and their style of food (lots of brown, not much by way of vegetables) are very interesting. Mr. Buford has a great eye for detail and terrific skill in turning a phrase - he's very funny and the reader for this audio edition (sorry, don't have his name in front of me) is excellent. ...more Bill Buford is an editor who determines to find out what it would be like to work in a professional kitchen. Fortunately, he gets the opportunity to find out when he meets Food Network chef, Mario Batali at a baseball game. This book details the stressful world of preparing 3-star meals. It is complete with depiction of kitchen-prejudice, snobbery, recipes and more than you ever wanted to know about what goes into meal-prep. I found the audio version of this book entertaining, informational and Bill Buford is an editor who determines to find out what it would be like to work in a professional kitchen. Fortunately, he gets the opportunity to find out when he meets Food Network chef, Mario Batali at a baseball game. This book details the stressful world of preparing 3-star meals. It is complete with depiction of kitchen-prejudice, snobbery, recipes and more than you ever wanted to know about what goes into meal-prep. I found the audio version of this book entertaining, informational and hilarious at times. I have more respect for chefs, and particularly line-cooks after listening to this. The dedication, years of free labor, abuse most go through to obtain the status of chef is like few other occupations. Line cooks endure cramped working conditions, constant pressure, while grill cooks live on the edge of being set on fire (at least Buford did!). There must certainly be something to the labor of love moniker placed on food preparation by those who aspire to it. This industry does seem to have an abundance of strong, colorful personalities that were fun to be introduced to via audio book. As far as the Dante-quoting tuscany butcher , I'll steer clear of him. Harmless, but .... that much verve with a butcher knife ... stand back! ...more I had a lot of fun with this. A good exploration of food and cooking. It probably could have been trimmed down quite a bit, but I won't hold that against it. Book Review Heat by Bill Buford Reviewed by Tom Carrico Bill Buford is a former editor of the \u201cThe New Yorker\u201d magazine, founding editor of \u201cGranta\u201d magazine and publisher of Granta Books. His hobby was cooking. He cooked for friends and business associates and on one occasion for the renowned chef Mario Batali. That occasion prompted Mr. Buford to quit his job at \u201cThe New Yorker\u201d and sign on as an unpaid intern at Batali\u2019s three star Italian restaurant Babbo in New York City. This book is part mem Book Review Heat by Bill Buford Reviewed by Tom Carrico Bill Buford is a former editor of the \u201cThe New Yorker\u201d magazine, founding editor of \u201cGranta\u201d magazine and publisher of Granta Books. His hobby was cooking. He cooked for friends and business associates and on one occasion for the renowned chef Mario Batali. That occasion prompted Mr. Buford to quit his job at \u201cThe New Yorker\u201d and sign on as an unpaid intern at Batali\u2019s three star Italian restaurant Babbo in New York City. This book is part memoir of that experience, part travelogue, part history of Italian cooking and part observatory character studies of the eccentric personalities the author encountered. Add to this mixture a large aliquot of humor and you have the recipe for a thoroughly enjoyable book. The memoir portion of the book details his rise from \u201ckitchen slave\u201d to line cook (which included a stint at the grill station) and finally to pasta maker. The author\u2019s misadventures, including dicing the carrots too small, multiple injuries (including splatter burns and minor lacerations) and wasting food are all humorously documented. The amazing aspect of all of this to me was how much this experience (although only lasting about a year) was reminiscent of my surgical residency. The graded responsibility, the general fault-finding and learning from mistakes all seemed remarkably similar to that experience. Initially, his superiors criticize every move and use every mistake as a \u201cteaching opportunity\u201d (usually involving screaming). As he moves up the responsibility ladder, Mr. Buford relates his frustration when the kitchen manager (who in my mind represented the Surgical Chief Resident) demanding that certain orders be replated immediately for no apparent reason. The even more fascinating portions of the book come about when Chef Batali talks to the author (\u201ctalking\u201d here includes earsplitting fits of anger) and informs him that the only way to truly understand the art of cooking Italian food was to go to Italy and learn it first hand. This is, in fact, the way Batali learned. The author does indeed make many trips to Italy. First he learns the fine art of pasta making from women who run a small restaurant and were taught their skills by their mother and their aunts, who in turn were taught by their mothers and aunts. The reader learns the difference between pastasciutta and pasta fresca, when the egg was first introduced into the ingredients (it turns out nobody, including the curators of the Pasta Museum in Italy, are exactly sure, although sometime in the 13th century is a good guess), and why machine made pasta is unacceptable. On a return trip to Panzano (near Tuscany), Mr. Buford learns the art of the butcher from Dario Cecchini, who comes from a long line of master butchers. Dario has the interesting habit of intermittently screaming long excerpts from The Divine Comedy alternating with singing excerpts from Mozart\u2019s \u201cDon Giovanni\u201d while he works. These \u201cperformances\u201d are fueled by generous amounts of alcohol. The meticulous care of knives, the various cuts of meat from pigs and cows and the appreciation for the preparation of meats as an art form are detailed. The cast of characters which Mr. Buford meets while working at Babbo (including the maestro Batali) and traveling and living in Italy is colorful and very amusingly described by the author and is one of the strengths of Heat. This cast includes the characters already described above as well as the other restaurant workers who jealously guard their secrets of success, the Italians who courageously defend their ancient cooking arts in a modern world as well as the menagerie which makes up the restaurant world in New York City (including patrons, competing chefs and newspaper food critics). I don\u2019t know if this was the best book to read while trying to adopt a \u201cheart-healthy\u201d diet and mode of living, but I know that even under those circumstances this was a thoroughly enjoyable, entertaining, humorous and even informative book. Heat by Bill Buford is available in trade paperback from Vintage Books. ...more \"Bill Buford likes to surround himself with histrionic people, whose antics frequently cross the line into violence. First, it was the soccer hooligans . Now it's three-star NY chef Mario Batali and Italian butcher Dario Cecchini. You can imagine Buford and Batali, into their fifth bottle of wine in a dim New York hot spot at three in the morning, Buford regaling the imbecilic escapades of the Man United fans in the eighties, and Batali savoring (and interrupting) every detail. Not content with h \"Bill Buford likes to surround himself with histrionic people, whose antics frequently cross the line into violence. First, it was the soccer hooligans . Now it's three-star NY chef Mario Batali and Italian butcher Dario Cecchini. You can imagine Buford and Batali, into their fifth bottle of wine in a dim New York hot spot at three in the morning, Buford regaling the imbecilic escapades of the Man United fans in the eighties, and Batali savoring (and interrupting) every detail. Not content with his job as New Yorker fiction editor, Buford abandons his day job to be a kitchen slave in Babbo and later an apprentice to a pasta maker and a butcher in Italy. An excellent read for foodies. Selected quotes: Chicken feet are a vivid sight--like human hands without a thumb, curled up and knuckly--and the first time I saw them, bobbing in their giant vat, they looked as though they were attached to the arms of so many people, clawing at the churning water; trying to climb out, the bubbling pot a portal from Hell, there in the back of the kitchen, against the wall, the hottest place. The burden was in the fact that the polenta was never made first thing. It was always the seventh or eighth thing. So if you got busy and forgot--if suddenly, at four-thirty, you found yourself saying, \\\"\"Oh shit, the polenta!\\\"\"--you were in trouble. You can't crush three hours of slow cooking into sixty minutes. For emergencies, a box of the instant was hidden on the top shelf of the walk-in, but to use it was considered a failure of character. It also rendered Frankie apoplectic, who took these lapses as personal slights. \\\"\"You're doing this to humiliate me,\\\"\" he'd say to whoever he'd just spotted, tiptoeing like a shoplifter, clandestinely slinking off with a box of the instant an hour before the service started. \\\"\"You're doing this to make me look bad. You're doing this because you know we will fucking lose our fucking three stars if we start serving fucking instant, and if we lose our fucking three stars I lose my fucking job.\\\"\" One busy Saturday, Dario was serving a woman about to purchase her first bistecca who then asked him if the meat was good. \\\"\" E\\buona? \\\"\" Dario said, his voice rising theatrically with exaggerated indignation. \\\"\" Non lo so. Proviano \\\"\" (I don't know--let's find out.) So he took a bite--the woman's raw purchase--chewed it melodramatically, swallowed, said, \\\"\"Yes, it's good,\\\"\" wrapped it up, and gave the woman her change. The woman, aghast, took her package and fled. The consequence was that several people asked Dario if he would take a bite out of their steaks as well-as though his teeth marks were an autograph. \\\"\"Please,\\\"\" one man said, \\\"\"it's for my wife.\\\"\" \"\"\" ...more When I first started this book, I asked my friend Jen what she thought of it. Not much, apparently; she didn't find the author \"compelling\". It was just boring, even for an amateur cook like me. He describes things (like when egg was first introduced as an ingredient in pasta) that he says most people would not be interested in, and then goes on and on ad nauseum about them. If you know they are not interesting to people, then why go into detail about them? It is odd that he was an editor for Th When I first started this book, I asked my friend Jen what she thought of it. Not much, apparently; she didn't find the author \"compelling\". It was just boring, even for an amateur cook like me. He describes things (like when egg was first introduced as an ingredient in pasta) that he says most people would not be interested in, and then goes on and on ad nauseum about them. If you know they are not interesting to people, then why go into detail about them? It is odd that he was an editor for The New Yorker. He seemed to use the same words over and over. I thought \"evanescent\" must be his new favorite word since he used it to describe everyone and everything. It also occurred to me that he wasn't a very likable person, either. It was clear that he enjoyed starting trouble. He didn't seem to have any loyalty to the chefs who were teaching him. He told Dario's secrets about where he obtained his meat to Dario's arch enemy, for example. The book is full of gossip about his teachers, including Mario Batali, and he also makes sure to attribute it to someone else ... (I'm just sayin'...). He was pretty impressed with himself and the obscure facts he could find out about gastronomy. I agree with him that most people don't want to know about how their hamburger came to be; I certainly don't. And maybe we should take some responsibility for what we eat. However, his description of butchering and detailed passages about the uses of what most people would consider the inedible parts of an animal were enough to turn me away from steak forever and possibly turn me into a vegetarian! At the end of the book, it sounds as if Batali and he are still friends but I wonder if that changed once Batali read it. Certainly, it is no news that Batali is a wild man and a hard partier; however, I felt the author's representation of him was small and mean-spirited, especially considering that a kitchen on the level of Babbo would, as he himself admitted, never take on a home chef without formal kitchen education or experience. The author is an ingrate, and I found him (and subsequently his book) distasteful. He moves his wife all over the world with disregard for her job(she's an editor-in-chief of a major magazine in New York, I believe) on his whim. He ends the book with the fact that Mario offered him a restaurant (and of course getting in that now he knew stuff Mario didn't know) but that he was now going to go to France! Great advertisement for a sequel, wouldn't you say? ...more Outstanding on audio. Over the last couple of years, I have been reading my way through some of the more well-known \"cooking\" books, which tend to be more memoir than actual cooking: Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly , Yes, Chef and Blood, Bones, and Butter: The Inadvertent Education of a Reluctant Chef come to mind. Much of the writing is about the lives of these chefs and how they started cooking. Then it follows their restaurant careers and the success that they have t Outstanding on audio. Over the last couple of years, I have been reading my way through some of the more well-known \"cooking\" books, which tend to be more memoir than actual cooking: Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly , Yes, Chef and Blood, Bones, and Butter: The Inadvertent Education of a Reluctant Chef come to mind. Much of the writing is about the lives of these chefs and how they started cooking. Then it follows their restaurant careers and the success that they have today. Don't get me wrong, these books are great! It's just that Heat takes the concept to a whole other level. Buford gets interested in cooking in his 40s. As you read about his experiences in the cooking world, it's clear that Buford is really interested in the art of cooking where he will likely always be a student of that art, rather than an owner of that art, or restaurateur. Buford's book isn't about Buford as a kid, or his marriage, or how his family impacted his life - it's about FOOD. It's about life in a hot NYC kitchen doing prep work and then learning to run the grill. It's about Buford's treks to Italy to work for nothing to learn under unknown cooks about making pasta or butchering a cow. The book also provides some gossip around what it is like to work with Mario Batali and other greats within the elite cooking/restaurant world. (Cool scoop: Mario is a major boozehound. He can drink 18 whiskeys in one evening. He's also a bit of a pig, who likes to get dirty with the ladies. Yep, sometimes what you think you see, is what you actually get.) There's even a bit of the Food Network and how it evolved since it first aired in the 1990s. Buford doesn't let his love of cooking and slow food diminish his sense of humor. He can rip a funny yarn, and the reader of the book really did an excellent job of capturing Buford's spirit. Overall, this book set the standard of what people who love food should be writing about. I highly recommend it. ...more If you like cooking, if you like eating, if you like great writing, you'll love this book. Let me preface this review with a disclaimer, I am not a foodie; I am an eater. My only interest in food typically is how it tastes, not its journey from field to slaughterhouse to restaurant to the particulars of preparation to my plate to my stomach, but Buford might have changed my perspective. His literary-historical perspective on Tuscan food, his wild, uproarious tales from the life of Mario Batali and the Babbo kitchen, and his engaging portraits of food culture in Italia, were thoroughly Let me preface this review with a disclaimer, I am not a foodie; I am an eater. My only interest in food typically is how it tastes, not its journey from field to slaughterhouse to restaurant to the particulars of preparation to my plate to my stomach, but Buford might have changed my perspective. His literary-historical perspective on Tuscan food, his wild, uproarious tales from the life of Mario Batali and the Babbo kitchen, and his engaging portraits of food culture in Italia, were thoroughly enjoyable and a most entertaining read. The only quibbles I have are the barely mentioned supporting cast of his family that was also involved in his big, culinary tour of la dolce vita. While I have always fantasized about marrying a man who would suggest that I quit academia to move to Italy and live on pancetta and love, I think it must have been horrifying for his wife to hear that her husband was abandoning the relative stability and paycheck of his job as fiction editor for *The New Yorker* to spend time screwing around in Mario Batali's kitchen and then the restaurants and butcheries of Tuscany trying to sate his gluttinous muse. Buford's acknowledgment at the beginning of the book hardly seems a fittingly sufficient tribute to the amount of dedication and forbearance displayed by such a spouse. Nonetheless, this was obvi. a Perrin pick, and she was right-on in thinking it would be just the fantasy food tour of Italy my graduate-education-weary soul needed at the moment. ...more THIS IS A FAVORITE!! I read this book on vacation and it completely altered my state of mind! I was transported into the world of a commercial kitchen, and then to Italy for historic preparation of handmade pasta. Bill Buford is a delightful author, funny and a little insane. Only two complaints about this book. First, I was disgusted when he went to work for a butcher and, in great detail, described his new expertise. I sped read through that chapter, but I've eaten primarily vegetarian for more THIS IS A FAVORITE!! I read this book on vacation and it completely altered my state of mind! I was transported into the world of a commercial kitchen, and then to Italy for historic preparation of handmade pasta. Bill Buford is a delightful author, funny and a little insane. Only two complaints about this book. First, I was disgusted when he went to work for a butcher and, in great detail, described his new expertise. I sped read through that chapter, but I've eaten primarily vegetarian for more than 20 years. Second, he doesn't talk about his personal life AT ALL. Come on, you have a wife who is forced to put up with your manic adventures -- forfeiting your stable 23-year career in journalism in order to work in a restaurant until 4 a.m. each night, arriving home smelling like holy hell, I am sure. I think we need to know a little bit about how she handles you! Otherwise, I adore this book and his writing style. Don't miss it! He'll leave you inspired in your own kitchen! ...more Some of this book is amazing, but I found it uneven as a whole. I picked it up because I was curious about Mario Batali, but the Batali of this book is the least interesting character of all. The final chapters, when Bill Buford goes to Italy to apprentice with a butcher, are absolutely gorgeous. Bill Buford was an editor at the New Yorker and his breath of knowledge shows. He is best when discussing Italy, everything from the making of tortellini (and the rumor that they are modeled after the p Some of this book is amazing, but I found it uneven as a whole. I picked it up because I was curious about Mario Batali, but the Batali of this book is the least interesting character of all. The final chapters, when Bill Buford goes to Italy to apprentice with a butcher, are absolutely gorgeous. Bill Buford was an editor at the New Yorker and his breath of knowledge shows. He is best when discussing Italy, everything from the making of tortellini (and the rumor that they are modeled after the pasta originator's lover's belly button), the history of Italian cooking, and his research of fourteenth century cookbooks. He writes wonderfully and has a great sense of humor and humility (which explains how he managed to work for an entire year, without pay and under constant abuse, at Batali's restaurant). At times he just tells too much and needed another editor (or butcher) looking over his shoulder and telling him to cut the fat off. ...more Food as: - a business - an artform - an intellectual interest - a link to the soil - a tenuous and evocative link to the past plus: - recipes (of a sort, since recipes are for home cooks, we learn) for linguine with clams, the tuscan version of beef bourginion, and more - mario batali is a foul-mouthed drunk who loves the ladies - restaurant kitchens are no place for the myth and mystery of food (e.g., the $29 bowl of \"peasant\" soup made from scraps); dried pasta served at high-end italian restaurants buf Food as: - a business - an artform - an intellectual interest - a link to the soil - a tenuous and evocative link to the past plus: - recipes (of a sort, since recipes are for home cooks, we learn) for linguine with clams, the tuscan version of beef bourginion, and more - mario batali is a foul-mouthed drunk who loves the ladies - restaurant kitchens are no place for the myth and mystery of food (e.g., the $29 bowl of \"peasant\" soup made from scraps); dried pasta served at high-end italian restaurants buford is a fine writer, and his intellectual curiosity about food -- the ingredients, the history, the cooking process, the eating and enjoyment -- drives the reader along from one experience to the next. olive oil, working the line, ancient breeds of cattle, appreciating the flavors of a slice of pure pig fat. if you appreciate your food as more than a source of fuel, you'll find something to like in this book. ...more Well, I love the premise of this book, and I began it with gusto (insert lame gastronomy joke here), but it became a little too detailed and meandering in parts for me and I lost interest. I was really excited by Buford's accounts of working in the kitchen at Babbo, a restaurant I used to walk by, gaze longingly towards, but never ate at. It sort of read like a long New Yorker article, which makes sense, and is a good thing, but began to wear thin when Buford travels to Italy (See Valerie's revie Well, I love the premise of this book, and I began it with gusto (insert lame gastronomy joke here), but it became a little too detailed and meandering in parts for me and I lost interest. I was really excited by Buford's accounts of working in the kitchen at Babbo, a restaurant I used to walk by, gaze longingly towards, but never ate at. It sort of read like a long New Yorker article, which makes sense, and is a good thing, but began to wear thin when Buford travels to Italy (See Valerie's review). I guess I'm glad it's not Bourdain or anything, but maybe I just needed a little faster pace. What can I say, I watch too much Top Chef or something. It's worth reading for the parts about working in the kitchen, and how hard it really is to be a chef of such high caliber as Batali. I just skimmed the rest... ...more I enjoyed the descriptions of food and of Italy, but I frequently found myself comparing Buford's self-assigned temporary experience as a journalist-turned-culinary-kind-of-person to Bordain's authentic experience as an actual chef in Kitchen Confidential . Overall, I preferred Bordain's account of the fast-and-furious culinary lifestyle. This book really helped me to appreciate the restaurant industry and Italian culinary history and culture. Things I learned: 1. Mario Batali is a disgusting man. 2. Restaurant work is rough. 3. Italians are awesome. 4. Pork is gross. I don't think I would ever have picked this book out for myself, but it was the March selection for my book club, so I thought I would give it a shot. It has the trappings of a man's version of the first third of Eat, Pray, Love , but involves a lot more slicing and dicing. To be honest, it was a bit of a slog to get through, but I persisted and gleaned a few small nuggets of wisdom. I also learned about a semi-famous fifteenth century chef who just might have some connection to my hubby's family I don't think I would ever have picked this book out for myself, but it was the March selection for my book club, so I thought I would give it a shot. It has the trappings of a man's version of the first third of Eat, Pray, Love , but involves a lot more slicing and dicing. To be honest, it was a bit of a slog to get through, but I persisted and gleaned a few small nuggets of wisdom. I also learned about a semi-famous fifteenth century chef who just might have some connection to my hubby's family. I doubt that I'm a better cook for having read this story, but I did learn more about Italian food. I also learned a couple of interesting recipes that I think my hubby will like (see below among the quotes.) interesting quotes: \"Wretched excess is just barely enough.\" (p. 6) \"If someone has a great dish and returns to have it again, and you don't serve it to him in exactly the same way, then you're a dick.\" (p. 13) \"The practice seemed to illustrate a principle I was always hearing referred to as 'cooking with love.' A dish was a failure because it hadn't been cooked with love. A dish was a success because the love was so obvious. If you're cooking with love, every plate is a unique event - you never allow yourself to forget that a person is waiting to eat it: your food, made with your hands, arranged with your fingers, tasted with your tongue.\" (p. 32) Recipe for short ribs (pp. 72-77) using short ribs, or better yet the chuck flap, aka the shoulder fillet, the salmon cut or fish tail: First, brown the meat in a smoking-hot pan drizzled with olive oil \"One. Remove the now brown and glistening ribs (using tongs, por favor) fromt he rondo [pan] and make a braising liquid, the stuff that's going to cover the ribs while they cook. In this method, the liquid is the essential ingredient, and it doesn't matter what it is as long as it's wet an plentiful (in an Irish pot roast, it's water), although the ideal liquid is both flavoring and flavorful and is made from one part wine (at Babbo, about three magnums' worth, which, as it happens, is not the Barolo of the dish's name but a perfectly acceptable, very cheap California Merlot) and one part meat broth (say, a chicken stock), plus loads of vegetables: some carrots, an onion, two stalks of celery, and five peeled cloves of garlic, all roughly chopped, which you throw back into the rondo, still hot, and stir. You add the wine, the broth, a can of tomatoes, and cook for a few minutes.\" \"Two. Put the now-browned ribs in a roasting pan, pour the braising liquid over them, add some rosemary and thyme, put a lid on top, stick it in the oven (350 degrees), and forget about it.\" Three. (Three hours later, the ribs now cooked.) Turn the braising liquid into a sauce...first you remove the ribs and set them aside to cool; then you pour the liquid they were cooked in through a strainer into another pot...Next, you take this dense, aromatic, already highly extracted liquid and hammer it: you put it back on a burner and boil it to hell. Just torch it. Full blast. Lots of yellow-frothy melted fat will rise disgustingly to the surface. You skim this off and keep boiling the thing until it's reduced by more than half, when, lo and behold, it is no longer a braising liquid or a broth: it's a sauce.\" Four. Once the ribs are cool, you discover that the bones have loosened themselves from the meat and come right out.\" Separate the ugly, sinewy bits from the meat and bones, pour the sauce on the yummy bits and serve. \"...we brown our meat simply because we like the taste.\" (p. 72) \"The sauce has been skimmed of fat and reduced to something that can be described as the food equivalent of most male movie stars: dark, rich, and thick.\" (p. 75) \"The satisfactions of makeing a good plate of food are surprisingly varied, and only one, and the least important of them, involves eating what you've made. In addition to the endless riffing about cooking-with-love, chefs also talk about the happiness of making food: not preparing or cooking food but making it. This is such an elementary thing that it is seldom articulated.\" (p. 142) \"How can you run a pasta museum and not be interested in teh first eggy pasta?\" (p. 186) [How indeed? Obsess much?] regarding the Learned Confederation of the Tortellino: \"There is not one recipe; there is only the one you've been entrusted with.\" (p. 197) \"A butcher never sleeps. A butcher works in meat during the day and plays int eh flesh at night. A true butcher is a disciple of carnality.\" (p. 249) \"(...I'd accepted that Tuscans don't like green, and none of them had grown up with parents' urging them to eat their greens; their mothers had obviously said, 'Eat your browns.') Beef speaks to our souls. I don't know how else to explain it. It's in our DNA, this appetite - this need - for beef. It's what makes us Tuscan.\" (p. 267) Recipe for Peposo (a tradtional slow-cooked beef shank) (p. 274-275) couple of pounds of beef shank pepper garlic salt bottle of Chianti Directions: put everything in a pot, stick it in the oven before you go to bed, take it out when you wake up. \"Start the oven hot and turn it down to 200 degrees. After 2 hours the meat is cooked. After four, it has the chewy mouth-feel of stew. Over the course of the next eight hours, the dish gets darker and the smaller bits break down into a thick sauce, until, finally, at a point between a solid and a liquid, it is peposo. It smells of wind and lean meat and pepper. You serve it with a rustic white bread and a glass of a simple red, preferrably the one you cooked with - once again, the three elements of Giovanni Manetti's Tuscan soul: the beef, the bread, the wine.\" \"Even in New York (once famous for its rudeness, now stuck in a condition of permanent impatience), I had never seen anything like it. There, a retailer, however jaded, still pretends to honor the shopkeeper's code that a customer is always right. Dario followed a much blunter, take-no-prisoners philosophy that actually the customer is a dick.\" (p. 278) new words: ortolan, sabayon, sybaritic, toque, tautological ...more La lecture de ce livre donne non seulement l'eau \u00e0 la bouche, mais surtout l'envie de cuisiner et d'innover en cuisine. C'est l'histoire d'un apprentissage, celui de la cuisine italienne, racont\u00e9e du point de vue de l'apprenti amateur dont le seul v\u0153u est de sortir de son \u00e9tat d'ignorant. Tout y passe donc : les anecdotes de cuisine, la relation aux ma\u00eetres tous plus excentriques les uns que les autres (est-ce l\u00e0 la marque du g\u00e9nie ?), le savoir-faire patient des artisans, la tradition (perdue ? La lecture de ce livre donne non seulement l'eau \u00e0 la bouche, mais surtout l'envie de cuisiner et d'innover en cuisine. C'est l'histoire d'un apprentissage, celui de la cuisine italienne, racont\u00e9e du point de vue de l'apprenti amateur dont le seul v\u0153u est de sortir de son \u00e9tat d'ignorant. Tout y passe donc : les anecdotes de cuisine, la relation aux ma\u00eetres tous plus excentriques les uns que les autres (est-ce l\u00e0 la marque du g\u00e9nie ?), le savoir-faire patient des artisans, la tradition (perdue ?), les querelles de clochers (entre cuisine italienne et cuisine fran\u00e7aise), le respect des produits (l\u2019\u0153uf des p\u00e2tes fraiches, par exemple), etc. ...more Ugh, amazing. Buford is a great writer. Just the language is seamless and subtle and doesn't betray a lot of the mechanics and transitions. He does make the occasional mistake (sometimes repeating himself, mangled chronological sleight of hand, and the transition into \"Apprentice\" illustrates the importance of word choice, \"personal demons\" to mean his obsession with butchery and not family issues) a little more noticeable, but who cares. The structure astutely uses the mantra: form follows func Ugh, amazing. Buford is a great writer. Just the language is seamless and subtle and doesn't betray a lot of the mechanics and transitions. He does make the occasional mistake (sometimes repeating himself, mangled chronological sleight of hand, and the transition into \"Apprentice\" illustrates the importance of word choice, \"personal demons\" to mean his obsession with butchery and not family issues) a little more noticeable, but who cares. The structure astutely uses the mantra: form follows function. Heat 's function or purpose is Buford. The point is to follow Buford's quixotic journey into food. The structure follows Buford's research and journey. We start with Batali and Batali's history, using clearly delineated history as we chart both Batali's and Buford's kitchen trials. The two are not directly paralleled and Buford mainly uses the comparison to poke fun at himself. As Buford establishes himself in the kitchen, Buford quiets the history on Batali and eventually Batali all but disappears and Buford steps to the fore. The point is not Batali. He's the hook, but not the point. Heat is a great example of creative nonfiction in its use of characters. The characters feel made-up, they have a depth and a roundness that makes you think he thought them up, but instead Buford has selected details to make us see them as round characters. I particularly loved Andy, Caesar, and the Maestro, characters that say more through absence and silence. Heat has great tension between his status as not an outsider and not an insider. This tension follows through in the tone, which is a delicate mix between detachment and intimacy. Buford succeeds at this precarious mix mainly through his wry sense of humor, most of it directed at his own ineptitude. Here, Buford's technique is more noticeable than elsewhere, but it is an effective usage. He uses a lot of nonrestrictive clauses in his syntax. He has his own loosely codified system of rules for these nonrestrictive clauses--quotes go in parentheses, comedic asides in dashes, and loose \"voice\" asides in commas. Oftentimes a lot of nonrestrictive clauses can lead to some difficulty reading because the sentences become so long, but the wry humor helps Buford combat this tendency. In many ways I think Heat is about the cult of foodie culture. Buford is very aware of the inconsistencies and impracticalities inherent in it even as he talks up the Pollan myth (organic, slow food, locavore, etc.). He starts with the cult of the chef to draw in the reader. Batali is great for this because he is such a personality, but the reader sees the production side of things and gets to see \"behind the curtain.\" I was particularly fascinated by the anecdote of Batali preparing easy fan-interactions he could pull out when someone recognized him after his first fan was disappointed in his normalcy. This section ends with the equally fascinated discussion of the Food Network and its move away from Mario, away from personality and into presentation and food porn. Then, Buford moves on to the cult of authenticity, or the idea that the best of anything is only available at the source. So Buford travels to Italy to study pasta-making with Miriam. Lastly, Buford ends with the cult of ingredient. In his case, meat. He makes a sizable error in calling his obsession with meat a \"personal demon.\" This section bookends an interesting discussion of the \"inter-office\" squabbles of a top tier New York kitchen so to cut it right off at what might seem like the most dramatic point was an interesting decision (a mistake I would say). Also, calling it a \"personal demon\" brings up the specter of alcoholism and drug abuse, not meat addiction, but I can't help, but love this section for its characters. As Buford goes deeper and deeper into his quixotic quest to become an \"artisan\" butcher, we reach the ne plus ultra of this insider/outsider tension. Buford is now physically 100% in the Maestro's world, but mentally he begins to inch out, and we as the reader begin to ask, \"What is the point of this? Does Buford want to be a butcher? Open a restaurant?\" This moment is important because the answer is of course something along the lines of he wants to do all these things AND write a book about it. Buford toes the line and doesn't make me question his intellectual curiosity and honesty. He underlines this point with the story of Batali's night out, where Batali point blank asks him if he wants to open a restaurant. Buford's answer validates the position of the \"amateur\" in foodie culture. ...more Amateur-chef Bill Bufords Heat is a joy to read. The book promises a journey behind the scenes of a world renowned kitchen, Babbo, the restaurant owned by none other than Mario Batali, whose nights start when everyone else is in bed. The story is written not only to entertain, but also to show the hidden side of the life as a chef. And he also uncovers an enterprise designed on a social hierarchy that ironically depends on the bottom people the most. All of the dishwashers, prep chefs, line cook Amateur-chef Bill Buford\u00b4s Heat is a joy to read. The book promises a journey behind the scenes of a world renowned kitchen, Babbo, the restaurant owned by none other than Mario Batali, whose nights start when everyone else is in bed. The story is written not only to entertain, but also to show the hidden side of the life as a chef. And he also uncovers an enterprise designed on a social hierarchy that ironically depends on the bottom people the most. All of the dishwashers, prep chefs, line cooks, and pastry chefs join Babbo to work under the wing of the great master that is Mario Batali. Although a big-time chef with an even bigger personality, he isn't much more than a symbol, rarely stopping by the kitchen for more than a quick spot check. This is a hard reality for the chefs and poses a challenge to those who are specifically there to learn from him. Buford soon sees that he can learn from the others in the kitchen, such as the heads of the grill, pasta, and pastry station. He loves the thrill of working in a kitchen and loves every second he spends there. Heat accomplishes its promise by giving a rare glimpse into the genius that goes into making great food, and explores the roots of cooking when Buford becomes a pasta maker in northern Italy and a butcher's apprentice in Tuscany. When he quits his job at The New Yorker to join the Babbo kitchen, Buford sets up it a do-or-die moment for himself. There is no choice for him but to embrace his decision. He quickly learns the toil it takes to make it in the cooking industry, but the difficult hours only makes him love it more. Inspired to dig in deeper, he takes an apprenticeship in Tuscany at a butcher\u2019s shop, run by a man named Dario, but known more famously to all as \u201cThe Maestro\u201d. Dario teaches Buford the details that make a butcher a master, like greatness of a cow's innards, where each section of meat is wholly different and exquisite, down to the very last millimeter. Through the Maestro\u2019s obsession with quoting Dante, and the lovely company of cow carcasses, a new light is shed on cooking for Buford, who realizes that there are hundreds of variables you must learn to fully appreciate a meal at a great restaurant like Babbo. The author also travels to Northern Italy to take an apprenticeship with a woman named Miriam and learn the trade of pasta-making. He simply calls her up and says, \u201cMiriam, I want to work with you.\u201d She responds by telling him to come by one afternoon. He had thought of more a 1-2 month apprenticeship. \u201cA month? I never let anyone into my kitchen--ever. I don't know what to say. Are you crazy?!\u201d Because of her anger, he goes to Tuscany to apprentice for a butcher. Bill Buford is extremely qualified to write about this journey, due to the fact that he experienced it all first hand. His knowledge of cooking spans immensely over many subjects and the tone of the book is funny and light, but also packed with tough cooking terms and wonderful details that will thrill any aspiring chef. The book is very well written and the content was so gripping that I was totally enthralled. My favorite part came at the very end, when Buford made a return of sorts to the beginning of the book and a dinner he had with Batali. In the chapter, \u201cDinner with Mario\u201d, the chef and Buford sit down to eat and chat for hours about Bill\u2019s journey, the possibly owning his own restaurant in Italy, and all that has happened in their time together. This was great because of how well it wrapped everything up. My least favorite part of the book, and also what I would change, is how much time the book spends hammering down the repetition in the Babbo kitchen. While it was still fun to read, these parts got slightly boring when they themselves were repeated again and again. I might trim some of these parts, or possibly put other content between them so they are separated more. This book has no graphs, pictures, or illustrations, but I would still recommend it to any and all who like cooking and love eating (who doesn't?), along with people interested in a light read that simultaneously packs in great info and stories. I had a blast reading it and found it to be over all too soon. ...more Yes, that's right, I finished the book. Let me start out by saying that I think it\u2019s a safe assumption that I think about food more than the average person. I am the opposite of the saying \u201cDon\u2019t live to eat, eat to live.\u201d Most days, I live to eat. So it goes without saying that I was thrilled to pick up a book completely about Italian food and one man\u2019s (seriously awesome) journey learning as much about it as possible by working in a NYC kitchen with one of the most renowned chefs and from the Yes, that's right, I finished the book. Let me start out by saying that I think it\u2019s a safe assumption that I think about food more than the average person. I am the opposite of the saying \u201cDon\u2019t live to eat, eat to live.\u201d Most days, I live to eat. So it goes without saying that I was thrilled to pick up a book completely about Italian food and one man\u2019s (seriously awesome) journey learning as much about it as possible by working in a NYC kitchen with one of the most renowned chefs and from the people who know it best \u2013 Italians. I began this book more excited to read about Mario Batali -a personal Food Network hero- than anything, but found that my favorite section was the one in which Buford details his experience with Italy\u2019s most well known butcher (oddly enough, as I\u2019m opposed to eating meat), Dario Cecchini. I found that there is a place in this world where people truly take care and are even passionate about where their meat comes from, how the animal lived, what the animal ate, and so on. I appreciated this thought on meat as well: \u201cPeople don\u2019t think of an animal when they use the word; they think of an abstraction; they think of an element in a meal. (\u201cWhat I want tonight is a cheeseburger!\u201d)\u2026To my mind, vegetarians are among the few people who actually think about meat \u2013 at least they know what it is.\u201d If you are interested in learning about the history of Italian food, but from a completely unique and privileged experience, look no further. But be prepared to read about what I consider some pretty repulsive stuff. For example, \u201cCulatello translates loosely as \u2018buttness\u2019 and is made from the hindquarters of a pig \u2013 boned, stuffed into a bladder, cured, and hung for two years in the damp local cellars. The method is deemed unmodern by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and culatello is forbidden in America.\u201d Sick. I gave the book four stars because I felt as though it wasn\u2019t completely focused at times. Buford details so many staff members, friends, teachers, and so on that I just felt scatterbrained half the time. I eventually stopped trying to remember who most of the people were and paid more attention to the accounts of the people and their experiences, not who they themselves were. And while I did find this book pretentious at times, (i.e., \u201cHis tortellini were made with a veal and capon filling \u2013 bovine and fowl, and unmodern pairing, and one I associate with the meats you find in a Bolognese ragu.\u201d Groooaaan ) the insight into a few once in a lifetime opportunities of working with some of the most highly regarded people in terms of culinary preparation and tradition was the redeeming factor. If anything, this book will give those Italian-Americans who are obsessed with being Italian, yet can only speak to the knowledge of their \u201cbig families\u201d and \u201cgrandma\u2019s amazing cooking,\u201d something more to talk about. I think we all know people like this and all can agree that it\u2019s more than aggravating. But the bottom line is this: I\u2019m not really a food snob. While this guy\u2019s experiences were incredible, I personally don\u2019t know anyone who could relate to the author. I love good food, but I also like Taco Bell. As expected when reading something of this nature, it made me feel like if I purchased pasta anywhere other than from some obscure pasta-maker from the hillside in Porretta, Italy, I shouldn\u2019t eat pasta at all. And I just can\u2019t do that. ...more More reviews can be found on my book blog . --- I ignored this very popular book for years because I wasn\u2019t that interested in restaurant culture. I love food and cooking, but the day-to-day schedule of a line cook, preparing the same thing every day, wasn\u2019t something I found exciting. My assumption was that this would be the account of Bill Buford spending a month or two in a kitchen, waxing poetic about the strong work ethic and the screaming chefs, but it\u2019s much more than that. He spent nearly fo More reviews can be found on my book blog . --- I ignored this very popular book for years because I wasn\u2019t that interested in restaurant culture. I love food and cooking, but the day-to-day schedule of a line cook, preparing the same thing every day, wasn\u2019t something I found exciting. My assumption was that this would be the account of Bill Buford spending a month or two in a kitchen, waxing poetic about the strong work ethic and the screaming chefs, but it\u2019s much more than that. He spent nearly four years working on and off in Mario Batali\u2019s New York restaurant, Babbo, working with Batali\u2019s former boss in London, and visiting Italy to apprentice as a butcher. That\u2019s a level of dedication I didn\u2019t expect coming into this. I also didn\u2019t know that this was partly a high-level biography of Mario Batali\u2019s cooking life, from arriving in Italy for the first time as a youth to his rise to fame as a celebrity chef. He\u2019s a chef that other chefs consider legit, but I\u2019m somewhat unfamiliar with him and really had no interest to learn more. Buford\u2019s descriptions also made him out as a bit of an asshole, especially at the beginning, which killed my enthusiasm somewhat. But I quickly got over that, because this is a fantastic read. Buford\u2019s an engaging writer who can easily transport the reader directly into the middle of a hectic kitchen or in front of a plate of spectacular food. I mentioned I wasn\u2019t interesting in the restaurant side of things, but he really won me over. In spending so much time in Batali\u2019s kitchen, he was able to move from station to station and really give the reader a sense of how a professional kitchen works. Each station has its own challenges and lessons, and I really enjoyed being able to see it from a newbie\u2019s perspective. Restaurant kitchens are usually written about by veterans as they look back, but here we see it through fresh eyes. I hate how romanticized the stereotypical screaming Gordon Ramsey style chef has become, which in most cases is really just macho posturing in an attempt to cover the fact that the chef has no business leading other people, and Buford does a decent job of not falling into that. In one chapter he has a sous-chef slapping food out of his hand over and over in an attempt to make a point that, honestly, doesn\u2019t exist. It\u2019s ridiculous and wasteful, and Buford doesn\u2019t try too hard to turn it into a life lesson. He just presents it as it happened, which I appreciated. A few reviews that I came across complained that the chapter-long digressions into food facts were too dull, but they were some of my favourites. I enjoyed the chapter on the history of pasta and the chapter researching when cooks started added eggs to their pasta dough. He presented them in a way that made you feel like you were following along with his research, looking over the shoulder of a foodie Indiana Jones as he digs through his father\u2019s journal. Those chapters, and the chapters detailing his apprenticeship in Italy, were my favourites in the book. I wasn\u2019t completely on board with the premise of this, but Buford really won me over. His writing draws you in, and I loved the near obsession he has in his research. I\u2019m hoping he writes another food-related book at some point. ...more<---C>Bill Buford</---C><+++>Heat: An Amateur's Adventures as Kitchen Slave, Line Cook, Pasta-Maker, and Apprentice to a Dante-Quoting Butcher in Tuscany</+++>", "Title": "Heat: An Amateur's Adventures as Kitchen Slave, Line Cook, Pasta-Maker, and Apprentice to a Dante-Quoting Butcher in Tuscany"},
