{"Comments": "Typical Picoult plot and characters. The end really bothered me as it seemed unnecessary. Picoult's books are incredibly formulaic, and their strength really lies in whether or not you care about the topic they address. I expected to be more intrigued by this one - OI (<---B>\"brittle bone disease\"</---B>) and a wrongful birth suit. Either I just wasn't in the mood, or it read too much like My Sister's Keeper, or I spent the whole time anticipating the expected resolution... I actually found the teenage daughter, Amelia, more interesting. Probably because she was the character I could most relate Picoult's books are incredibly formulaic, and their strength really lies in whether or not you care about the topic they address. I expected to be more intrigued by this one - OI (\"brittle bone disease\") and a wrongful birth suit. Either I just wasn't in the mood, or it read too much like My Sister's Keeper, or I spent the whole time anticipating the expected resolution... I actually found the teenage daughter, Amelia, more interesting. Probably because she was the character I could most relate to, and I liked the fact that Picoult gave her more of a personality than some of the other family members in her other books. Amelia had her own demons to fight that reflected a lot of the family struggles, and I guess I wish there had been more of an examination of her bulemia and cutting. If nothing else, I felt that the solution of \"send her away to a facility\" was a copout on the part of her parents. Rather than really addressing the issue, it was just brushed aside. I expected this to be a much more heartrending book, but I never felt particularly involved in the wrongful death part. The emotional bits seemed to be more related to the friend vs friend parts, the husband vs.<---F> wife part, and the wife vs</---F>. the world parts. It never seemed to come down to wife vs. wife in which the mother actually has to face what she is really saying - that she wishes her daughter were never born. I thought the adoption plot was jimmied in a little bit, and I didn't feel that I needed any backstory on the lawyer. Similarly, I was irritated by the brief husband/friend makeouts and sexual tension. I think time would have been better spent highlighting the OB's marriage issues rather than just shoving her into Sean. I skimmed through the last 50 pages to the expected conclusion of - high profile trial resolution and main character death. This one was a little too TOO My Sister's Keeper, and I thought it was a little cheap. I did like that the family had the check on the fridge for months, though I was disappointed that the check ultimately went to waste. There were clearly PLENTY of OI families, foundations, or SOMETHING that could have used that money.... I just wasn't particularly impressed by this book, though,<---M> as always</---M>, I'm sure that if these were issues you were really interested in, this would be a great book. Picoult's books are always impeccably researched, and she clearly gets a realistic picture of the life she is portraying. It is always interesting to find out the seemingly mundane details of extraordinary lives that you wouldn't normally be able to relate to. ...more This book was a mixed bag. I will agree with readers that say it reminded them very much of My Sister's Keeper. I thought that Picoult did a nice job of developing Amelia's character and perspective. While I did find this book quite gripping, I find that Picoult needs to be wary of being too formulaic. Her twists and turns are becoming predictable; thus, when one happens it doesn't affect the reader in an emotional way. The twists almost become detrimental to the book- much like a soap opera that This book was a mixed bag. I will agree with readers that say it reminded them very much of My Sister's Keeper. I thought that Picoult did a nice job of developing Amelia's character and perspective. While I did find this book quite gripping, I find that Picoult needs to be wary of being too formulaic. Her twists and turns are becoming predictable; thus, when one happens it doesn't affect the reader in an emotional way. The twists almost become detrimental to the book- much like a soap opera that starts out really good but after a while, you just start to think \"Oh, come ON!!\" The ending of the book was just lame and because of that, a book that would have gotten four stars from me instead earns three because the rest of the book was good enough to support the crappy ending. Based on the ending alone, I'd give it a two. Picoult is one of very favorite authors but this is one book I am glad I got from the library, as I won't want or need to be reading it again. ...more This book was by far the worst i've ever read in my life, I got a third of the way through then gave up and read the ending, which was completely ridiculous and made the book quite pointless. I have to start by saying I'm disabled and have used a wheelchair for 8 years now and quite a few of my friends are also disabled so I have a good knowledge of how people with disabilities and our families live and cope with everyday situations. Now I can't speak for everyone, but the characters in this book This book was by far the worst i've ever read in my life, I got a third of the way through then gave up and read the ending, which was completely ridiculous and made the book quite pointless. I have to start by saying I'm disabled and have used a wheelchair for 8 years now and quite a few of my friends are also disabled so I have a good knowledge of how people with disabilities and our families live and cope with everyday situations. Now I can't speak for everyone, but the characters in this book didn't seem to act/think like we would, even though the author says she spent time with people and families who have this particular disability. And may I just say, the OI kids at the convention who were talking about riding their wheelchairs on an escalator, what the hell?! The mother just seemed to constantly whine instead of getting on with things and in particular seemed to resent anyone who had a normal life, even though she could have that with her daughters if she JUST STOPPED COMPLAINING and wasting her time on a legal case which is frankly ridiculous! Also the sister is incredibly selfish and resentful too. In places it also tries to make the reader feel quite guilty with the child that's so brave and never complains and is always cheery but it's just so unrealistic. Everyone has days where they are pissed off with the world and struggle to deal with illnesses and other things before they go back to dealing with it. As I said, the ending was completely ridiculous and made the whole book pointless and seemed to be written purposely for the point of shock/sadness and not to offer anything to the plot. Luckily I bought this book second hand and only wasted 50p of my money instead of \u00a38, however I did waste 4 hours of my life... ...more I haven't read anything by Picoult in a few years, and I had forgotten how brilliant she is at blending multiple voices throughout a hefty, impressively researched novel. This book grabbed me hard and didn't let me go (sleep was lost, bus stops missed, etc). The personal, ethical, moral and social issues contained in this book will keep bookclubs talking for weeks. The story, in a nutshell, is a mother of a precocious but severely disabled child decides, in order to get the cash necessary to keep I haven't read anything by Picoult in a few years, and I had forgotten how brilliant she is at blending multiple voices throughout a hefty, impressively researched novel. This book grabbed me hard and didn't let me go (sleep was lost, bus stops missed, etc). The personal, ethical, moral and social issues contained in this book will keep bookclubs talking for weeks. The story, in a nutshell, is a mother of a precocious but severely disabled child decides, in order to get the cash necessary to keep up with her medical bills and special needs, to sue her obstetrician for \"wrongful birth\". This means that she must swear under oath that she should have been given all the facts about her daughter's illness in time to have an abortion. The same child that she adores, who is old enough and smart enough to understand what her mother is saying, but not why she is saying it.. Add to that the fact that her best friend is the doctor she is suing. In a small town. As you can see, the scenario is fraught with dramas and dilemmas even without side stories about her lawyer and her other daughter running throughout. There is a twist, at the very end, that will knock the breath out of you (I'm still stunned by so bold a plot turn myself). One thing I disliked about the book is the recipes running throughout it--Charlotte, the main character, was a pastry chef before Willow's problems forced her into being a stay home mom, so they aren't completely out of place, but I felt like they did more to disrupt the flow of the book than add dimension to it. Still, I give it 5 stars with no hesitation. ...more I am a big fan of <---A>Jodi Picoult</---A> but I couldn't wait to finish this book so I could read something enjoyable. I thought this book had no redeeming qualities. I didn't like the whole premise. How do you sue your best friend? It went down hill from there. I hated the ending. Ok, so I just finished Handle With Care by Jodi Picoult (due out April). This was the first Jodi Picoult book where I really struggled to finish it. I found it very repetitive & much too similar to My Sister's Keeper - just a different disease. There were family problems, questions of morality, several characters having personal problems, it just seemed to be one big book of problems. & very whiny one at that. It was written very well & I love the style in which Jodi Picoult writes, but Ok, so I just finished Handle With Care by Jodi Picoult (due out April). This was the first Jodi Picoult book where I really struggled to finish it. I found it very repetitive & much too similar to My Sister's Keeper - just a different disease. There were family problems, questions of morality, several characters having personal problems, it just seemed to be one big book of problems. & very whiny one at that. It was written very well & I love the style in which Jodi Picoult writes, but this book honestly did nothing for me. I didn't find myself attached to the characters like the other books & surprisingly was not the slightest bit emotional - when it was called for. Anyway that's just my verdict, I'm sure many others will enjoy it :) ...more OUTSTANDING. AMAZING. I DIDN'T WANT THIS BOOK TO END. I WOULD HAVE LOVED FOR THIS TO HAVE BEEN THREE TIMES THE LENGTH THAT IT WAS. I can't say enough great things about this book. I'm already biased because I'm a big Picoult fan but I'd have felt this strongly even if this had been written by someone else. I'm utterly amazed at what Picoult manages to do with these books. Other authors try and some even succeed with taking a issue like a school shooting, a disability, etc. and making it very tho OUTSTANDING. AMAZING. I DIDN'T WANT THIS BOOK TO END. I WOULD HAVE LOVED FOR THIS TO HAVE BEEN THREE TIMES THE LENGTH THAT IT WAS. I can't say enough great things about this book. I'm already biased because I'm a big Picoult fan but I'd have felt this strongly even if this had been written by someone else. I'm utterly amazed at what Picoult manages to do with these books. Other authors try and some even succeed with taking a issue like a school shooting, a disability, etc. and making it very thought provoking. Picoult manages to give us a 100% realistic look into how these situations effect numerous people. I've been engrossed with certain books before but it doesn't happen often and needless to say, it takes a special author to pull me in to that degree. Picoult does it every single time. Handle With Care has me now wanting to learn all I can about osteogenisis perfecta. I hope Picoult lives a long, long life and that she keeps writing the entire time. I suppose I should say a bit about the book and not only how much I loved it huh? Okay, here you go- the book follows the O'Keefe family, mom Charlotte, dad Sean, and two daughters, Amelia is the oldest and Willow is the youngest. Willow was born with osteogenisis perfecta with essentially will leave her with hundreds of broken bones during her lifetime, along with many other possible damaging issues such as hearing loss, not growing to your full potential, etc. This disorder drastically changes a life. Reaching for something can break a bone, someone bumping into you can break a bone, turning over in your sleep can break a bone. Something like that is unimaginable to most of us. Imagining your baby with it is even harder. Charlotte's ob-gyn was her best friend of almost a decade and eventually, after a bad break at Disney World, while the O'Keefe's are meeting with an attorney they learn about wrongful birth lawsuits. Learning about this type of lawsuits can be chalked up to one of the most devastating things to affect the O'Keefe's- quite possibly, behind Willow's disorder, the most devastating. Charlotte decides to go ahead with a wrongful birth lawsuit against her best friend for numerous reasons, one being that the money won in a settlement would allow Willow to live a better life. (I feel the need to point out here that I just had to make a correction to my review- I was typing as if I was writing to Willow- anyone who has read the book will know why it happened but it was totally unconcsious and that's how much the book has affected me.) Anyway, the O'Keefe's were handling Willow's disorder and the rest of their lives okay before learning about this type of lawsuit and after learning about it- everything falls apart. Charlotte and Sean each have their *differing* opinions, Amelia starts to have many emotional and mental problems and Willow- I don't have the words to say how this affected her. (I feel like this was a non-fiction book when it wasn't.) Each chapter talks to Willow from a different person. Her father one chapter, then her mother, Marin, the lawyer, Piper, the ob-gyn, Amelia and so on. Overall, this has to be in the top five or so books that have made me think the most. I read someone's review that the twists and turns in the book were common and were able to be read far before hand. That's something I'm normally quite good at and I didn't feel that way at all with this book. I thought some of the things that happened were really far out there, although quite realistic. I didn't seen most coming AT ALL. Two months ago if someone had asked me which Picoult book I'd recommend to someone who has never read her I would have probable said Harvesting the Heart , The Pact , Plain Truth or Keeping Faith . All of them are GREAT, GREAT, GREAT books. But now, I'd recommend this one. Maybe that's because it's so new to me still, because I hadn't read any Picoult's in awhile before this one, or for some reason that I don't see, but this is what I'd recommend regardless. Anyone who likes fiction that makes you think, serious fiction should read a Jodi Picoult book. They aren't the kind of books that leave you sad even though they do have many serious and saddening issues. You come away having learned something from every book. ...more I have mixed feelings about Picoult's latest novel. On the one hand, I really enjoyed once again the introduction of a controversial topic in mainstream fiction and the presentation of all points of view. On the other hand...well, there are a lot of other hands. Yes, from what I can recall, this is too similar to My Sister's Keeper . The ending was completely unnecessary. The chapters--written as if they were letters to Willow--just didn't flow the way Picoult most likely intended. Not to mention I have mixed feelings about Picoult's latest novel. On the one hand, I really enjoyed once again the introduction of a controversial topic in mainstream fiction and the presentation of all points of view. On the other hand...well, there are a lot of other hands. Yes, from what I can recall, this is too similar to My Sister's Keeper . The ending was completely unnecessary. The chapters--written as if they were letters to Willow--just didn't flow the way Picoult most likely intended. Not to mention that Picoult's writing has pretty much become formulaic. Then there were things that didn't really ring true to the characters (Sean not understanding why the law firm wouldn't take on his case, for one--hello, he's presented as quite level-headed and intelligent in the rest of the book. Yes, there's a lot of emotion, but even embarrassment is not an excuse for presenting him as dumb on just one page when the rest of the book never alluded to that. And that's just one example). Then there's the character of Charlotte--I hated her; which was a good thing because it kept me engrossed in the book. I hated her because I cannot accept, or believe, that anyone would be stupid enough to believe that this lawsuit wouldn't change anything for the worse. I hated her because she is a great example of how our litigious, \"I'm not to blame--she is\" society operates. I loved (and hated) how easily she was entranced by the idea of a lawsuit that would destroy the life of at least one person she loved in order to make--in her mind--another's easier. I hated her single-minded determination to protect one daughter while ignoring another. But while I hated her, I had to admire her at the same time for her resilient strength and determination to follow through with what she believed was the only right thing to do. I did like the book for the same reasons I generally like Picoult's books: the thought-provoking subject and introduction to a new issue that one might not have really thought about before (in this case, I had--but it did make me re-evaluate my position several times); the variety of characters and different points of view; good research; and an easy, quick read. Picoult still has what I love about her, but if I could give her one piece of advice it would be to SLOW DOWN. The quality of the books seem to degrade a little more with each one and my theory is that it's probably because she's pumping one out a year. It's worth a read and not a waste of time, but cannot be judged on the same level as her earlier books. ...more Well, here's the thing... Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors. I couldn't wait to get my hands on this book. She handles current topics in her books and makes them poignant and real and... well, she just really makes you THINK, something we often don't like to do. This book started out very slow and at first I wondered if I was even going to be able to get through it. As the story progressed, I couldn't quit, couldn't put it down, HAD TO absorb as much as I could even though at times ther Well, here's the thing... Jodi Picoult is one of my favorite authors. I couldn't wait to get my hands on this book. She handles current topics in her books and makes them poignant and real and... well, she just really makes you THINK, something we often don't like to do. This book started out very slow and at first I wondered if I was even going to be able to get through it. As the story progressed, I couldn't quit, couldn't put it down, HAD TO absorb as much as I could even though at times there were tears streaming down my face. This book puts a whole new light on abortion; and, although I am sure it would never go as far as to alter a pro-choice voter's opinion (I doubt if anyone or anything could do that... pretty hard in this day and age to convince someone to alter a stubborn opinion like that...), it served to firmly cement my pro-life stance. If you read the book carefully and with an open mind, you could possibly find yourself considering how truly self-serving a pro-choice option is. I finished the book about half an hour ago and the tears are still fomenting and giving me double vision. And now I can't wait to see what topic Picoult comes up with in her next book. All I can say is WOW. Double WOW. ...more I was really enjoying reading this latest from Picoult, especially since I hadn't enjoyed her last book. I was also interested in learning more about OI, since a local family was recently on Extreme Makeover: Home Edition and their son has OI. However, after all the drama and tension, the ending just fell flat to me. So I ended up being disappointed overall by the novel. Didn't have that sense of satisfaction I usually get after I finish something really good. I am a long time fan of Jodi Picoult's work but have been disappointed with her last few efforts. This was no different. While the premise is interesting and the story is told in many voices, I was distracted by the form of the novel in which the characters speak to directly to Willow. And what's with the recipes? Charlotte is no longer a pastry chef. Once the story has been set up with the child's rare disease, it doesn't go anywhere from there. There is nothing new here. We all know what a deb I am a long time fan of Jodi Picoult's work but have been disappointed with her last few efforts. This was no different. While the premise is interesting and the story is told in many voices, I was distracted by the form of the novel in which the characters speak to directly to Willow. And what's with the recipes? Charlotte is no longer a pastry chef. Once the story has been set up with the child's rare disease, it doesn't go anywhere from there. There is nothing new here. We all know what a debilitating illness does to the family, friendships and free time. We all know how much it costs the family physically, emotionally and financially. The endless storytelling about the fractures that Willow sustains and how they have to care for her was boring and too much. Once the family went ahead with the lawsuit, I knew how it would end. Charlotte's character is flawed and unsympathetic - I didn't care for her. Midway through the book I didn't care enough to finish it and skipped to the end. Contrived and very disappointing. I will not spend any more money on Ms. Picoult's books in the future. ...more I know it's a clich\u00e9 but I'm a fan of Picoult. I especially like the twists - that used to be unpredictable, at least. I did find this one to be easy to see coming. I think I'm used to her style so much now that I just know what's going to happen. I found this one easy to engage in. I love how much research she does for her books. I learned so much about OI which I had heard of before but just in passing. It's such a rare, yet life-encompassing disease. I felt so sad for Willow, and also for her I know it's a clich\u00e9 but I'm a fan of Picoult. I especially like the twists - that used to be unpredictable, at least. I did find this one to be easy to see coming. I think I'm used to her style so much now that I just know what's going to happen. I found this one easy to engage in. I love how much research she does for her books. I learned so much about OI which I had heard of before but just in passing. It's such a rare, yet life-encompassing disease. I felt so sad for Willow, and also for her sister who got the pushed aside for the most part ever since Willow was born. I did hate the mom, though. While I understand the future full of possibilities she wanted for her daughter, I hated her throughout the whole process. She was completely blind and uncaring when it came to the consequences of her actions. Or how it all came off to her own daughters who were way too young to understand the big picture, you know. Alienating everyone you know and love to *maybe* get a payout just made me feel very uncomfortable. Anyways, I didn't love nor hate the book. I found that, in the end, there was no point to it all. Which was maybe the point but meh. ...more While I still like Picoult's descriptive writing and the way she raises moral and ethical issues, I have to agree with other critics that she needs to take a step back and reassess. Her books are getting to be too similar in plot and characters. SPOILER ALERT!!!! I also had a big problem with the situation that sets up the main action in the book. The family goes to FL on vacation, the child with OI has an accident and breaks her femurs. Because they forgot the letter from the daughter's treating While I still like Picoult's descriptive writing and the way she raises moral and ethical issues, I have to agree with other critics that she needs to take a step back and reassess. Her books are getting to be too similar in plot and characters. SPOILER ALERT!!!! I also had a big problem with the situation that sets up the main action in the book. The family goes to FL on vacation, the child with OI has an accident and breaks her femurs. Because they forgot the letter from the daughter's treating physician in Boston and it's Saturday, there is no way to confirm their contention that she has OI and that they are not abusive. This is ridiculous! Doesn't the specialist who treats patients who can break bones when they sneeze have an answering service for use in emergencies? He's with Children's Hospital in Boston, one of the best pediatric hospitals in the world! It wouldn't mattter that it's a weekend! How about the fact that the parents know everyone by name in their community hospital's ER? These characters are otherwise intelligent people and the father is a police sargeant who should know how the system works. Can't they ask the social workers, medical staff, or police who are about to arrest the father to call that hospital??? Even if the parents don't request that they call the community hospital in NH or Children's in Boston, the FL hospital staff and police would certainly have thought to do so. On top of that, the older daughter who is smart and insightful in the rest of the story, innocently (and inexplicably) answers the questions of the social worker in a way that's sure to implicate her father. It's only after the father is arrested, the mother is detained, and the older daughter is moved into emergency foster care that the mother talks with her best friend and OB/GYN, who \"somehow\" gets the phone number of the specialist and calls him. Picoult even implies through the thoughts of the father that the OB/GYN and best friend \"has the nerve\" to use her connections to \"cold-call\" the specialist at 3:00 a.m. Yikes! I expect more realism from Jodi Picoult. ...more Willow O'Keefe has seven broken bones before she took her first breath. Now her life is lived on a knife-edge. Born with brittle bone disease, she will never learn to skate like her sister. Even walking can be dangerous. One wrong step and Willow is back in a cast. The medical bills are crippling her family. So when a lawyer tells Charlotte, her mother, that they might have a case to sue for wrongful birth, she feels bound to consider it. Except that winning would mean losing her best friend and Willow O'Keefe has seven broken bones before she took her first breath. Now her life is lived on a knife-edge. Born with brittle bone disease, she will never learn to skate like her sister. Even walking can be dangerous. One wrong step and Willow is back in a cast. The medical bills are crippling her family. So when a lawyer tells Charlotte, her mother, that they might have a case to sue for wrongful birth, she feels bound to consider it. Except that winning would mean losing her best friend and telling the world that she wishes her much-longed-for daughter had never been born. Handle With Care started out with a lot of promise. It was well-researched and well-written book with a thought-provoking plot but as I read more and more of this novel I found a lot of faults within it. I am a fan of Jodi Picoult and I usually enjoy her books because she tackles interesting and compelling moral dilemmas in her novels and I like how she always writes the narrative from several different characters points of view so the reader knows what everyone is going through and understands how they are feeling. But there were several things about this book that I didn't like. Handle With Care is basically the same novel as My Sister's Keeper just told by different characters and another disease. The author uses the same writing formula for every novel she writes and after reading 13 of her books this formula is getting rather tiresome and annoying. The characters were mostly well-developed. I really loved the characters of Amelia, Sean and Piper. But I really despised the character of Charlotte. She was such a horrible, selfish, stupid, nasty woman. I hated absolutely everything about her. I really thought she was an awful mother (to Amelia especially) and the way she was willing to destroy her marriage and her best-friend's career and betray her daughter all for money which she thinks \"she might need someday\" was completely disgusting and I found it very hard to get through the chapters told by her character. I thought the character of Willow was too precocious and far too mature for a five year old. When I'm reading a book I want the characters to act their age! This is one of my pet peeves in novels. The way Willow was written made her character seem too unrealistic so I had trouble relating to her character. The novel may have been too formulaic but I was enjoying it until I read the final chapter. I have never been so pissed off by the ending of a book before in my life! I thought that chapter made the whole plot pointless. It really ruined the story for me. I actually wish now that I have never read this book in the first place. 2 Stars! ...more I never review on here, but I felt the need to. No one I know is reading this book and I really wanted to talk about the ending, so here it goes. ***MAJOR Spoilers below!*** I love Jodi-- her writing style, impeccable research and use of immensely controversial subjects makes her my favorite author. In fact, until the main story lines resolved right at the end, I felt no differently about this novel as I have about most of her others in the past- brilliant. Then, it all crashed down for me. First I never review on here, but I felt the need to. No one I know is reading this book and I really wanted to talk about the ending, so here it goes. ***MAJOR Spoilers below!*** I love Jodi-- her writing style, impeccable research and use of immensely controversial subjects makes her my favorite author. In fact, until the main story lines resolved right at the end, I felt no differently about this novel as I have about most of her others in the past- brilliant. Then, it all crashed down for me. First, Marin's search for her birth mother ends completely predictably, making me wish the entire story line just didn't even exist in the first place. Even worse was the resolution of the general plot. I agree with those reviewers who are calling this book \"My Sister's Keeper- The Sequel,\" as the endings are so completely similar. Even worse than Willow's \"unexpected\" (I predicted something similar) death by drowning in the pond was Charlotte's forfeiting of the check she had ruined all of their lives to earn as she placed it in Willow's coffin. There are so many things wrong with this that I can't even begin to list them, namely that she didn't use it to give her OTHER daughter a better, more fulfilling life. I love Jodi, I'm still one of her biggest fans, but I didn't love this one. ...more One of my favourite books! Love this author! Don't waste your time on this book. It would be a lie to say it's a boring book. It isn't. But the end truly ruined the whole book for me. It's not just a sad ending that makes you wanna cry, it's the sort of ending that makes you regret about ever reading this book. It makes the whole story pointless. I truly loved it at first but when I finished it I hated it so badly that I didn't even want the copy to be mine anymore. I just had to give it away. I couldn't bear the fact that I wasted my money Don't waste your time on this book. It would be a lie to say it's a boring book. It isn't. But the end truly ruined the whole book for me. It's not just a sad ending that makes you wanna cry, it's the sort of ending that makes you regret about ever reading this book. It makes the whole story pointless. I truly loved it at first but when I finished it I hated it so badly that I didn't even want the copy to be mine anymore. I just had to give it away. I couldn't bear the fact that I wasted my money on this book. Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time. ...more Willow berusia enam setengah tahun, dan dia sudah mematahkan 68 tulang dalam waktu selama itu. Seorang bayi, yang amat dinanti orang tuanya, lahir dengan penuh limpahan kasih sayang. Orang-orang akan berebut untuk menggendongnya, mencium pipi mungilnya dan menghirup aroma khas yang dimilikinya. Lalu kedua orang tuanya akan sibuk memilihkan nama, sambil membayangkan kelak kegiatan yang akan mereka lakukan bersama sang anak. Berlari, bermain sepak bola, bermain layangan, atau berenang? Tapi tidak de Willow berusia enam setengah tahun, dan dia sudah mematahkan 68 tulang dalam waktu selama itu. Seorang bayi, yang amat dinanti orang tuanya, lahir dengan penuh limpahan kasih sayang. Orang-orang akan berebut untuk menggendongnya, mencium pipi mungilnya dan menghirup aroma khas yang dimilikinya. Lalu kedua orang tuanya akan sibuk memilihkan nama, sambil membayangkan kelak kegiatan yang akan mereka lakukan bersama sang anak. Berlari, bermain sepak bola, bermain layangan, atau berenang? Tapi tidak demikian yang dirasakan Charlotte ketika ia melahirkan bayinya. Bukan kelegaan yang bercokol dalam hatinya melainkan ketakutan serta kekhawatiran akan keadaan anak perempuannya yang dulu kehadirannya amat didambakan. Anak itu terlahir dengan kelainan pada tulangnya, ia menderita Osteogenesis Imperfecta, kondisi ketika tulang-tulang di tubuhnya amat rapuh karena ia kekurangan kolagen. Kelainan ini membuat si anak kelak akan mudah mematahkan tulangnya, baik karena terpleset, ataupun terjatuh. Bahkan saat bersin sekalipun. Anak itu kemudian diberi nama Willow. Saat ia lahir, ada tujuh fraktur yang dalam masa penyembuhan dan 4 fraktur baru akibat proses persalinan. Pada dasarnya, yang anda lihat adalah hidup yang diisi oleh rasa sakit, sekalipun waktunya pendek. Sautu hari, Willow dan keluarganya berlibur ke Disneyland. Tetapi sebuah kecelakaan terjadi, Willow terpleset dan tulangnya patah. Berada di luar kota membuat Sean dan Charlotte tidak bisa meminta pertolongan dokter langganan mereka, dan rumah sakit tempat Willow dirawat mencurigai kalau Willow adalah korban kekerasan oleh orang tua. Meski kemudian kesalahpahaman ini dapat diatasi, tetapi Sean terlanjur marah dan sakit hati. Ia menghubungi pengacara untuk menuntut orang-orang yang telah menuduh mereka melakukan penganiayaan anak. Di kantor pengacara dijelaskan bahwa mereka tidak dapat menuntut kasus tersebut. Tetapi sang pengacara malah memberikan ide lain kepada keluarga Willow, bahwa ada kemungkinan mereka bisa mengajukan tuntutan malpraktik kelahiran. Sebab seharusnya tanda-tanda janin pembawa OI dapat diidentifikasi lebih dini oleh dokter kandungan yang memeriksa. Kemungkinan jika deteksi dini dilakukan, maka sang ibu dapat diberikan pilihan apakah mempertahankan janin tersebut atau menggugurkannya. Sean tentu saja menolak melakukan gugatan tersebut, ia dan Charlotte amat menginginkan kehamilan tersebut. Tetapi Charlotte memiliki pandangan lain. Seluruh harta mereka tercurah untuk memenuhi kebutuhan Willow. Biaya rumah sakit, operasi, obat, perawatan, serta perlengkapan untuk mendukung ketidakmampuan fisiknya di rumah membuat keluarga mereka bangkrut. Jika tuntutan ini berhasil, mereka akan memiliki jaminan untuk memberikan Willow kehidupan yang layak dan nyaman. Belum lagi mereka juga memiliki Amelia, si sulung yang sering terabaikan karena Willow. Tuntutan ini makin runyam karena dokter yang memeriksa kehamilan Charlotte adalah Piper, sahabatnya sendiri. Sanggupkah Charlotte melawan hatinya sendiri untuk menggugat sahabatnya yang bahkan telah membantu dalam proses kehamilannya? Dan yang lebih penting secara moral, apakah layak, seorang ibu menggugat dokternya karena ia tidka diberi kesempatan untuk mengugurkan kandungannya sendiri? Saya benar-benar menyukai buku ini, bagaimana penulis bisa membuat pembacanya terikat secara emosional dengan tokoh-tokoh dalam cerita. Membuat kita seakan enggan beranjak dan berhenti sebab terlalu penasaran dengan akhir yang dialami keluarga ini. Saya tak punya tokoh favorit, Karena kesemua tokoh utama memiliki keunikannya masing-masing. Mereka secara individual terasa menonjol, kadang membuat saya iba, tak jarang juga membuat saya kesal. Tetapi saya akan menceritakan sosok Charlotte sekilas di buku ini. Charlotte merupakan wanita yang mandiri, terutama ketika ia sedang berada di dekat Willow, ia yang terkadang terlihat rapuh dan membutuhkan perlindungan langsung berubah menjadi sosok wanita yang percaya diri dan begitu melindungi anaknya. Seluruh kehidupannya dipusatkan kepada Willow. Seakan dengan sepenuh tenaga dan kemampuannya, ia sanggup memberi rasa aman pada Willow, meski itu sulit. Sosok Charlotte di buku ini membuat saya seakan berkaca, mungkin memang itu tujuan para Ibu di dunia. Memberikan dan memastikan anak-anaknya melangkah dengan aman ke depan, meskipun sebenarnya tak ada jaminan yang dapat meyakinkan kami. Buku ini amat kompleks, dan saya beruntung telah membacanya meski belum memiliki waktu untuk mengupasnya lebih jauh. ...more This book was good but a few things bothered me about it and I am glad that I have made it through the Jodi Picoult books so I can take a break for awhile. First off, this book is being compared to My Sister's Keeper due to similar themes and family issues. I would agree but argue that My Sister's Keeper is much better. Second, can anyone be that stupid (referring to the mother Charlotte)? Even after being presented numerous times with situations suggesting that she was ruining their family and This book was good but a few things bothered me about it and I am glad that I have made it through the Jodi Picoult books so I can take a break for awhile. First off, this book is being compared to My Sister's Keeper due to similar themes and family issues. I would agree but argue that My Sister's Keeper is much better. Second, can anyone be that stupid (referring to the mother Charlotte)? Even after being presented numerous times with situations suggesting that she was ruining their family and friendships, she keeps going. Third, there are just too many coincidences for this story to be believable. The story would have been much better if the doctor that she was suing for malpractice WASN'T HER BEST FRIEND. The lawyer was adopted and looking for her birth mother (of course she meets here but you'll never guess who she is). Finally, the ending bothered me even though I saw it coming after about the first 50 pages or so. No spoilers but the ending seemed non-sensical after going through the ordeal that they went through. This was a fast read and a decent book but compared to some of her other ones, this one irritated me. ...more Like many Jodi Picoult books, Handle With Care is well written and deals with a well researched difficult issue impacting a child and family. I often learn a lot reading Ms. Picoult's books and this one didn't disappoint in that regard, teaching about the devastation of osteogenesis imperfect, sometimes called brittle bone disease. This wasn't one of my favorite Picoult novels. Parts were slow for me. The last 150 pages the pace picked up and I was very engaged. Then, there's what felt like an o Like many Jodi Picoult books, Handle With Care is well written and deals with a well researched difficult issue impacting a child and family. I often learn a lot reading Ms. Picoult's books and this one didn't disappoint in that regard, teaching about the devastation of osteogenesis imperfect, sometimes called brittle bone disease. This wasn't one of my favorite Picoult novels. Parts were slow for me. The last 150 pages the pace picked up and I was very engaged. Then, there's what felt like an overly dramatic unnecessary jarring twist at the end. ...more This book is about Willow and her family. Willow has brittle bone syndrom and after a disasterous trip to Disney the family finds out they have a good lawsuit case. The lawsuit is a \"wrongful birth\" case. The trial is masked as a malpractice suit but the underlying and obvious message is that the mother would not have given birth to her daughter if she had known of her disease within an appropriate amount of time. The story really kind of beats to death the idea that the mother loves her daughte This book is about Willow and her family. Willow has brittle bone syndrom and after a disasterous trip to Disney the family finds out they have a good lawsuit case. The lawsuit is a \"wrongful birth\" case. The trial is masked as a malpractice suit but the underlying and obvious message is that the mother would not have given birth to her daughter if she had known of her disease within an appropriate amount of time. The story really kind of beats to death the idea that the mother loves her daughter and is only suing so that they can afford all the best medical care for the daughter while completely tearing the family apart. I think that Jodi Picoult is an excellent writer and I don't regret reading this book, but it's not her best. In the end, I felt like it was a very bad recycling of her previous book My Sister's Keeper. I would suggest any of her other books, but go ahead and skip this one...read My Sister's Keeper instead. ...more A typical Jodi Picoult ethical/medical dilemma story. The ending was not a total surprise that I found quite annoying. I felt manipulated. Okay, like I've said, I have this problem where I keep thinking I'll like Jodi Picoult's books. So when I saw that she'd written a book about a family bringing a wrongful birth suit because they couldn't afford to take care of their 5-year-old daughter's significant special needs (she has brittle bone disorder), I was intrigued. Picoult is at her best (least worst?) when she handles medical issues, and medical malpractice--especially with regard to wrongful birth, which I think is a disturbing c Okay, like I've said, I have this problem where I keep thinking I'll like Jodi Picoult's books. So when I saw that she'd written a book about a family bringing a wrongful birth suit because they couldn't afford to take care of their 5-year-old daughter's significant special needs (she has brittle bone disorder), I was intrigued. Picoult is at her best (least worst?) when she handles medical issues, and medical malpractice--especially with regard to wrongful birth, which I think is a disturbing concept--interests me. What I forget is that PICOULT WILL WRITE A DECENT STORY AND THEN MESS IT UP WITH AN IDIOTIC TWIST ENDING!!! I know her novels are like Lifetime movies; a fluffy, issue-of-the-year novel that barely scrapes the surface of the important themes they attempt to tackle. I am ok with this. What I'm not OK with is that always has to be a \"ZOMG WTF?!\" type of ending in her books, to the point where it becomes expected. Word up to the author: random plot twists that abruptly end your book and are meant for tear jerks and shock value do nothing for your plot. They ruin your books, which aren't that good anyway. Skip this one completely and just read My Sister's Keeper instead. ...more The ending kills me. Every time i read it i think \"oh i know what's going to happen maybe this time it won't hurt as much\" and i'm wrong. Every time. If you want a chance to ever be happy in yourlife skip the last 3 pages. The book is going to be a good one instead of a great one but you're going to lead a life without any emotional damage. It's your choice. Setelah sekian lama menantikan terjemahan dari novel Jodi Picoult, mendengar GPU akan menerbitkan Handle With Care saya jadi tidak sabar ingin segera membacanya. Kali ini JP mengangkat tema tentang dilema seorang ibu yang memiliki anak difabel. Sean dan <---C>Charlotte O'Keefe</---C> sangat gembira ketika mengetahui usaha mereka untuk mempunyai seorang anak berhasil, setelah penantian dan usaha fertilisasi dua tahun lamanya. Piper Reece, sahabat sekaligus dokter kandungan Charlotte adalah orang yang tahu past Setelah sekian lama menantikan terjemahan dari novel Jodi Picoult, mendengar GPU akan menerbitkan Handle With Care saya jadi tidak sabar ingin segera membacanya. Kali ini JP mengangkat tema tentang dilema seorang ibu yang memiliki anak difabel. Sean dan Charlotte O'Keefe sangat gembira ketika mengetahui usaha mereka untuk mempunyai seorang anak berhasil, setelah penantian dan usaha fertilisasi dua tahun lamanya. Piper Reece, sahabat sekaligus dokter kandungan Charlotte adalah orang yang tahu pasti bagaimana mereka berusaha untuk itu. Meskipun Charlotte sebelumnya sudah memiliki anak perempuan bernama Amelia, namun buah hati yang sedang dikandungnya ini adalah anak pertamanya dengan Sean. Keluarga O'Keefe sangat antusias menantikan kehadiran anggota baru di keluarga mereka. Hingga pada minggu ke-27 usia kandungan Charlotte, Piper menemukan kejanggalan pada sonogram Charlotte. Hasilnya memperlihatkan bayi perempuan yang dikandung Charlotte menderita Osteogenesis Imperfecta (OI) Tipe III. Kondisi dimana tubuh sangat kekurangan kolagen sehingga tulang menjadi rapuh. Bayi Charlotte, bahkan ketika masih di dalam kandungan, telah mengalami 7 fraktur di tubuhnya. Dan ketika lahir, Willow menambah koleksi patahannya lagi. Sejak saat itu Willow hidup dengan kenyataan tulang-tulangnya bisa patah setiap saat, bahkan saat dia bersin. Kehidupan keluarga O'Keefe tidaklah mudah. Charlotte yang awalnya bekerja sebagai koki pembuat kue terpaksa mendampingi Willow sepenuh waktu. Charlotte selalu tampil sebagai pelindung Willow. Ketika keluarga O'Keefe berlibur ke Disney Land, Willow mengalami kecelakaan yang menyebabkan tulang kakinya patah. Karena Amelia lupa membawa surat keterangan dokter, Charlotte dan Sean diperhadapkan pada tuduhan penganiayaan anak. Hasil rontgen Willow yang menunjukkan adanya bekas patahan di beberapa tempat di tubuhnya menguatkan tuduhan itu. Sean dan Charlotte harus bermalam di penjara, Amelia di rumah asuh, dan Willow sendirian kesakitan di rumah sakit. Meski akhirnya masalahnya bisa diatasi setelah Piper turun tangan, Sean tidak bisa menerima perlakuan pada keluarganya. Dia lalu melakukan tuntutan hukum melalui sebuah lembaga hukum. Namun, pengacara yang mereka pilih malah melihat adanya peluang tuntutan hukum untuk kasus lain. Malpraktik kelahiran yang dilakukan oleh Piper Reece. Tragedi sebenarnya dimulai. Menurut sang pengacara, Piper bisa dituntut atas kelalaiannya memberikan informasi kepada Charlotte ketika usia kandungan Charlotte 18 bulan. Kala itu hasil USG yang dengan jelas memperlihatkan otak dari janin di dalam kandungannya sudah bisa mengarahkan ke diagnosis OI. Charlotte seharusnya mendapatkan pilihan untuk melakukan terminasi kandungan (aborsi) karena bayinya cacat. Skenario tuntutan ini memecah belah keluarga O'Keefe. Sean menolak tuntutan itu karena hal tersebut sama saja dengan mengatakan pada Willow dia tidak diinginkan. Sementara Charlotte memilih untuk melanjutkan tuntutannya sehingga dia bisa mendapatkan dana ganti rugi yang bisa dia gunakan untuk membiayai hidup Willow yang tidak murah, Meski dengan resiko besar, dia akan kehilangan sahabat dan mungkin kepercayaan dari anaknya sendiri. Terkadang kau harus menjadi manusia yang buruk demi menjadi ibu yang baik. Jujur saja, membaca novel ini membuat saya sesak nafas. Membaca kondisi Willow yang rapuh saja sudah membuat saya berkali-kali menutup buku ini hanya untuk sekedar menarik nafas dan menghalau bayangan buruk di kepala saya. Belum lagi dilema yang harus dihadapi Charlotte sebagai seorang ibu. Di satu sisi dia mencintai Willow tanpa syarat, tapi di sisi lain kondisi ekonomi keluarganya yang sulit membuatnya dapat membayangkan bagaimana susahnya membiayai kehidupan Willow selanjutnya. Sementara itu, Sean yang menentang keputusan Charlotte memilih angkat kaki dari rumah. Dia merasa Charlotte sudah kelewatan dan tidak mencintai Willow. Menjadi orang tua bukan hanya tentang melahirkan anak. Tetapi juga menjadi saksi atas kehidupannya. Bukan hanya hubungan antara Sean dan Charlotte yang rusak, hidup Amelia juga terkena dampak dari penyakit Willow. Tanpa disadari oleh orang tuanya, Amelia tumbuh menjadi remaja yang merasa dirinya tidak berguna, buruk rupa, dan tidak disayangi. Akibatnya Amelia mengalami bulimia bahkan dia menyayat dirinya sendiri untuk mencari ketenangan. Willow yang menjadi pusat perhatian juga merasakan dirinyalah penyebab semua kerusakan itu. Ada ketakutan mendalam di diri Willow dia akan dibuang oleh ibunya sendiri. Tidak ada orang yang menyimpan benda yang rusak. Cepat atau lambat, barang rusak akan dibuang. JP tetap memilih formula multi-POV andalannya dalam novel ini. Namun kali ini semua tokoh \"bercerita\" kepada Willow. Gaya penulisan yang unik, dimana kita bisa melihat bagaimana pandangan setiap orang yang ada di sekitar Willow tanpa meniadakan sosok Willow sendiri. Hanya di akhir cerita ada bagian dimana Willow menceritakan kisahnya. Meskipun multi-POV, saya tidak merasakan kebingungan membacanya. Bahkan kisah ini terasa mengalir dengan sarat pengetahuan baru di dalamnya. Novel ini terasa seperti paket lengkap. Ada masalah kesehatan, anak difabel, konflik keluarga, persoalan remaja, tuntutan hukum, dan resep kue. Iya...resep kue yang membuat saya menelan ludah saat membacanya. Pandainya JP menghubungkan antara konflik kehidupan dengan beberapa istilah dalam dunia kuliner seperti tempering dan weeping. Lebih jauh lagi, sebagai penggemar novel JP, ketika membaca novel Handle With Care ini mungkin akan kembali mengingatkan pada beberapa tokoh wanita di novel JP sebelumnya. Saya merasakan Charlotte adalah perpaduan dari tokoh Sara di My Sister's Keeper yang gigih memperjuangkan kesehatan anaknya, dan Nina di Perfect Match yang memperjuangkan keadilan untuk anaknya. Terlepas dari masih banyak typo di dalam edisi terjemahan ini, saya sangat berterima kasih pada GPU yang sudah \"kembali\" menerbitkan novel karya penulis favorit saya ini. Saya berharap GPU masih mau melanjutkan untuk menerbitkan karya-karya JP lainnya. ...more <+++>Handle with Care</+++> Jodi Picoult Age rec- 14-30 FIVE STARS Prior to Handle with care, I had read three of Picoult's novels- Sing you home, The pact and My sisters keeper. I liked them all very much- they all got 4 stars- but weren't exactly 5 star material. This book is. I realise I've been too kind with ratings recently, but this book was just..... gorgeous. I read the first 20 pages and knew it was The One. I fell in love with each and every character, and the story caused me so many #Feels and pain. <+++>Handle with Care</+++> Jodi Picoult Age rec- 14-30 FIVE STARS Prior to Handle with care, I had read three of Picoult's novels- Sing you home, The pact and My sisters keeper. I liked them all very much- they all got 4 stars- but weren't exactly 5 star material. This book is. I realise I've been too kind with ratings recently, but this book was just..... gorgeous. I read the first 20 pages and knew it was The One. I fell in love with each and every character, and the story caused me so many #Feels and pain. Every character, and every backstory was beautiful and sad. I was very happy that Amelia got help in the end- there are too many books about teens in this kind of pain, and they just go off the deep end and don't get better. But this is SO Picoult- Just when things are finally OK again, she hits you with a CRAZY twist that can honestly SHATTER you. I was crying for about an HOUR. Some of the law terms, as usual, had me baffled. But this book helped me discover my wish to b a lawyer. I'm thinking I want to be a defence attorney- but I might change my mind. Even though I loved it, I kind of read 40 pages, then I set it down for a month, and then it got overdue, and I had to speed-read it, which took me EXACTLY two days. It was hard to put down! As always, Picoult delivers the deepest, most controversial subjects. And she always makes me think. I'm not going into the pro-life pro-choice stuff, but I wasn't a fan of the lawsuit. I really hoped Charlotte would withdraw it. It was causing pain and hurt for everyone, and as a result, I hated Charlotte for 90% of the book. Especially when, for a film, she forced Willow's physical therapist to make her do something too difficult- and then blamed it on the Physical Therapist. She did it for attention, and I wanted to grab her by the shoulders and shake her. All of the OI stuff was REALLY interesting. I had never heard of it before, but it's important to know about, even if it's rare. It would be so awful, to not be able to hug your newborn daughter without breaking her arm or rib. Marin's backstory was a favourite part of mine. It was so sad and the end result was devastating- though I won't give spoilers. It was sad, and I do understand Marin's biological mother's choice, even if it hurt Marin. The Spoiler Sessions! The ending left me so heartbroken. I never, ever saw that coming. I kind of thought Amelia would die, or when Willow cut herself with Amelia's razor, she would die then. But... DROWNING??? The most unlikely thing you'd think of- maybe second to being chased, by a chicken, to a gum factory, and falling in the hot rubber and dying from burns. Whatever. But that is the most SNEAKY, DIABOLICAL move EVER. Well played, Jodi Picoult. You broke my heart in two. I was in tears in the end, completely ugly crying. If anyone came past my bedroom and saw me, they'd think Willow was my DAUGHTER. I did know, however, that something would happen between Piper and Sean- even if it ended up just being a kiss. I actually kind of shipped them. They had chemistry, and I felt that Charlotte and Sean weren't... passionate. But it made for a realistic ending, I suppose. I was always upset for Amelia, and I felt pained for her the whole book- through her cutting, bulimia, and THAT TURD, ADAM. All Adams are jerks! fictional ones anyway. If i stay!! Shatter me! I was incredibly relieved when it was stated that she went to \"bulimia\" camp and made it back okay. Not just okay- happy. But can you imagine how Willow's death would affect her? How about Sean and Charlotte?? Even Piper, though the book didn't end with her and the O' Keefes on good terms. There were parts where I really hated Sean. There was a part when he forced himself on Charlotte- I don't care that they were married. His actions were unwanted. She tried to fight against him!! I liked that this book spanned over a year and a half, it didn't feel rushed, and I really got to know and care for each character (at most times. I mean, the only characters I never hated were Willow, Amelia and Marin.). Willow narrating her death scene was so sad. I thought, \"OOHHHH YEY A WILLOW SCENE!\" and then I thought, \"WAIT WHAT IS THIS???? IS THIS HAPPENING? THIS IS NOT HAPPENING!!! ASGFDSHDSGJ!!\" I think I am still recovering from this. I loved Willows trivia- it was really cool, and I actually knew none of it. Overall, sometimes the story slowed (rarely) but I didn't force my way through. I glided through it tearfully. This is my first Jodi Picoult book that gets... FIVE GOLDEN STARS!!!! Until the next time... X EMMI\\ARIA X Also-- HAPPY NEW YEAR!! ...more I am not happy with this book at all and just when I thought Songs of the Humpback Whales would be my least favorite book by this author, I stumbled upon Handle With Care - this book was poorly edited and the worst part being the utterly unfathomable ending! I just finished this book today and I am not sure that time will heal Picoult's attack on my reading brain. I thought the ending of My Sister's Keeper was a giant cop-out until I re-read the foreword and figured out why the ending was, in re I am not happy with this book at all and just when I thought Songs of the Humpback Whales would be my least favorite book by this author, I stumbled upon Handle With Care - this book was poorly edited and the worst part being the utterly unfathomable ending! I just finished this book today and I am not sure that time will heal Picoult's attack on my reading brain. I thought the ending of My Sister's Keeper was a giant cop-out until I re-read the foreword and figured out why the ending was, in retrospect, quite decent, if unhappy. However, Handle With Care has an ending that is simply inscrutable when judged from any conceivable angle. Nothing made any sense. The recipes that are thrown in the book because the main character used to be a pastry chef drove me crazy too - what was the point of those! I understand why a mother would want to sue a doctor for wrongful birth but only to attain financial resources from a deep pocket that is needed to keep the affected child alive, comfortable, and with a reasonable quality of life. And I believed that was the only reason this lawsuit was pursued. So, why was the hard-fought check never cashed? A specific point was made that the check was more than 6 months old. A check older than 180 days can no longer be cashed at all. Was it only because the child died? And died a completely unnatural, unreasonable, insane death? By having the child die, Picoult negated the entire point of her book -- that every life has value. She essentially said just the opposite -- that this life was meaningless. Huh? I was so perplexed and angered by this! Before I got to the ending, however, I had to wade through a swamp of simple editing errors, errors that were so obviously crying out for correction that I can believe only that there was NO editing whatsoever. Does Picoult write too many books too quickly to have them properly scrutinized for even simple mistakes? Was the imputed editor too intimidated by her employer to point out such egregious errors? How could an author who boasts of and thanks so many physicians who helped her with the medical science confuse the bones of the human arm with those of the human leg? Come on -- any 8th-grade student knows which are which. The typos and misspellings throughout are an insult to the publisher. I tell everyone who is interested in reading this book that they must refrain. If they have half a brain, they will be furious if they do. And, like me, they may never get over it. ...more Hmmmm...I'm just not sure what to say. The book started off really awesome, I couldn't put it down. I realized partway through that it was really following closely to the \"formula\" that she used in My Sister's Keeper, which was slightly annoying...but still, it worked well for the subject. Parts of the trial were unrealistic, IMO...especially one BIG part (you'll know what part if you read it - it's just so left-field and would NEVER happen in a courtroom). And then the ending...gah! WTH?! I hate Hmmmm...I'm just not sure what to say. The book started off really awesome, I couldn't put it down. I realized partway through that it was really following closely to the \"formula\" that she used in My Sister's Keeper, which was slightly annoying...but still, it worked well for the subject. Parts of the trial were unrealistic, IMO...especially one BIG part (you'll know what part if you read it - it's just so left-field and would NEVER happen in a courtroom). And then the ending...gah! WTH?! I hated the mom (Charlotte) most of the way through...even though I understood where she was coming from, I didn't think it was the way to go about \"fixing\" things...though I know that's what Picoult was going for. Overall, though...it was a good book, and it would have gotten 5 stars if it hadn't been for the ending. I was sucked right in, emotional and involved with the characters...it was SO good, right up until then. *sigh* ...more As coisas que se partem - sejam ossos, cora\u00e7\u00f5es ou promessas - podem voltar a ficar juntas, mas nunca mais ficar\u00e3o inteiras. Jodi Picoult, a rainha dos dramas contempor\u00e2neos com diferentes pontos de vista, e dos finais de partir o cora\u00e7\u00e3o.", "Title": "Handle with Care"},
