{"Comments": "*sniff* Oh, you surprised me. Is it time for the review? Just a second.<---F> What? Crying? Me? Don\u2019t be ridiculous</---F>. I was just \u2026.uh\u2026chopping some onions\u2026..and I\u2019ve got a cold\u2026.then somebody broke into my kitchen and pepper sprayed me\u2026.I certainly wouldn\u2019t be shedding a few manly tears over a <---A>Stephen King</---A> novel,<---M> would I? Oh</---M>, fine. You spend almost twenty years reading this series and tell me you got through the conclusion without a lump in your throat. Liar. Roland and his posse of gunslingers have to *sniff* Oh, you surprised me. Is it time for the review? Just a second. What? Crying? Me? Don\u2019t be ridiculous. I was just \u2026.uh\u2026chopping some onions\u2026..and I\u2019ve got a cold\u2026.then somebody broke into my kitchen and pepper sprayed me\u2026.I certainly wouldn\u2019t be shedding a few manly tears over a Stephen King novel, would I? Oh, fine. You spend almost twenty years reading this series and tell me you got through the conclusion without a lump in your throat. Liar. Roland and his posse of gunslingers have to wrap up their business on Earth so they can get back to Mid-World. In our world, they\u2019ll have to safeguard the rose in New York by founding a corporation dedicated to its protection, some of them will have to battle a very nasty nest of vampires and low men, and Susannah has to give birth to something that is supposed to be the end of all of them. The ones who can make it back to Mid-World will have to launch a desperate attack against overwhelming odds to stop the Crimson King\u2019s breakers from destroying one of the last Beams holding the Tower and all of reality in place, and if they survive that, there\u2019s a Very Important Person who still needs saving. <+++>The Dark Tower</+++> series was written in fits and starts by King from the time he was in college to wrapping up the whole thing in a three book burst following his close encounter with a minivan. He didn\u2019t always know where it was going, he littered many of his other books with DT tie-in stories, and he famously claimed for years not to know how it would end. So the series as whole isn\u2019t the most tightly plotted thing you\u2019ll ever read, and at the end King focused on delivering on the emotional journey rather than trying to wrap up every loose end he had hanging out there. He chose wisely. I consider this King\u2019s flawed masterpiece. Some have focused on the \u2018flawed\u2019 part of that. I decided to dwell on the \u2018masterpiece\u2019 side of the equation. I\u2019ll go a little more in depth on that in this spoiler section, but for any newbies not reading that, I\u2019ll just say that all the years waiting between books turned out to be worth it. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ The Flaws The biggest let down to me in this was that the whole Modred thing was so anti-climatic. His birth was a huge focus in the final three books, yet in the end all he managed to do was send poor Oy to a grisly death. In fact, there\u2019s precious little satisfaction to be found in any the endings of the major villains. Modred was dying of food poisoning anyhow. Oy spoils his attack and Roland dispatches him with ease. The Crimson King is just crazy old man on a balcony throwing bombs around, and he gets taken out by a pencil eraser wielded by a kid with no tongue. Maybe worst of all was the ending of Randall Flagg a/k/a Walter a/k/a Martin. This one was especially galling because not only had he been Roland\u2019s nemesis, he\u2019d been a boogeyman in King\u2019s books for years. Yet he gets eaten by Modred the baby. That sucked. I\u2019m still not sure about King writing himself into the story either. I don\u2019t think he did it out of ego because he made himself look pretty awful overall, but at some point after his accident, I think he couldn\u2019t separate what he\u2019d gone through from the story it inspired him to finally finish. It didn\u2019t ruin the series for me, but I kind of wish he\u2019d come up with something else. Having gotten that out of my system, let\u2019s proceed to: The Masterpiece I loved the whole concept of the Tet Corporation, and I continue to hope that someday King will give us a book detailing its war against N. Central Positronics and Sombra. I could have read several more chapters regarding that piece. The character deaths were incredibly well done and still painful the third time through this. We\u2019ve known since Roland let Jake fall into the abyss in The Gunslinger that this quest to find the Dark Tower would cost Roland dearly, but I was not prepared for how high the price turned out to be. Which brings us to my favorite part, the ending. The idea that Roland has been stuck in an endless cycle of climbing the Tower only to find himself back at the beginning of the series seems kind of obvious in retrospect, but caught me completely by surprise. As King noted in the afterword, it\u2019s not a happy ending, but it\u2019s the right ending. I agree with that. Roland\u2019s ultimate damanation wasn\u2019t that he sacrificed his friends to get to the Tower, it\u2019s that he risked the Tower again by pressing on to satisfy his own obsession to see it after it had already been saved that puts him in his own personal hell. I also like how that sneaky bastard King made us all complicit with Roland\u2019s fate. By offering us the chance to opt out and leave the book knowing that Roland reached the Tower and that Susannah was reunited with Eddie and Jake in another version of New York, King made us all Roland by proxy. We couldn\u2019t resist. We had to know what was in the Tower. And when we find out, we all share Roland\u2019s fate of going back to the beginning. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Ka is a wheel, my friend. So, I loved the Dark Tower series. It's one of the best works of fantasy I've read. If you haven't started it: a) do so b) don't read the spoilers here <+++>The Dark Tower</+++> series is an incredibly varied set of books, written over the course of more than 30 years - written by a young man starting out on a wholly uncertain writing future - written by an old man looking back on a glittering career - and punctuated by all his experiences, discoveries, epiphanies. King brings all his Ka is a wheel, my friend. So, I loved the Dark Tower series. It's one of the best works of fantasy I've read. If you haven't started it: a) do so b) don't read the spoilers here The Dark Tower series is an incredibly varied set of books, written over the course of more than 30 years - written by a young man starting out on a wholly uncertain writing future - written by an old man looking back on a glittering career - and punctuated by all his experiences, discoveries, epiphanies. King brings all his talents to these pages ... and some of his weaknesses. You should read it, it is (forgive the pun) a towering work of imagination and characterization. *** This last volume is a curious mix for me, containing some great writing, an amazingly good idea for ending what must have been a very difficult tale to end well, and in some places some bewilderingly disappointing execution. This mix of brilliance and weakness has resulted in the 3* up top. Below I venture into the deepest realms of spoiler-land, pontificating on the ending. Don't go there if you've not read the book, really. (view spoiler) [ Really! Don't spoil it for yourself (view spoiler) [ So. Randalf Flag, Susannah's baby, and most of all the Crimson King were all huge anticlimaxes for me. Given the nature of the ending and King's skill I wonder if these weren't perhaps intended to be anticlimaxes with everything turning out to be less impressive, less important, more shabby and spoiled than it had been built up to be in Roland's mind. In book 4/5 we see that anything can be magic, with Dodge gearsticks performing as magic wands. Perhaps here we see that anything can be your arch-nemesis and the undoing of the world - it's us (or Roland) who invests them with that power and at the end of it all he sees them for what they are? Who knows. Either way as a reader finding the Crimson King who has sat at the heart of this epic for decades, and finding him to be an unimpressive grenade-lobbing old man with no special powers, no wisdom or insights ... offering no closure ... well it didn't sit well. Perhaps this was intentional - to give me the same empty feeling Roland gets in the end, but it didn't quite work for this reader. I felt short-changed. The idea for the close of the story, the coup de grace, is brilliant. But it could have been spelled out more clearly perhaps. A tough call since you don't want to over do it. The end message (that I took at least) is that the journey was (and is for all of us) the important thing. Not the ending. And that if we set our sights on the end goal and sacrifice everything to get it, we will lose out on every level. Roland, who we admired for his unflinching commitment to the cause, for the doggedness with which he pursued the tower, is doomed to start at the beginning and repeat the hunt yet again for Ka is a wheel and he is bound to it. The strengths we saw in him, the willingness to sacrifice everything, even friends at the very end, are now shown as his weaknesses. His only chance to leave the wheel and find peace is to see this truth - that the important things are those he sacrifices time and again. His singularity of purpose is his curse, not his strength - the friendships and loves he encounters in the NOW are what matters, not the paper-thin Crimson King trapped in an empty tower. The path he plots toward the tower is the crucial thing - not if he gets there. This is a beautiful, powerful way to conclude such an epic and I applaud King for his vision. I just wish he'd written it in a way that connected better with me when I read it. (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] . ...more WARNING! THIS REVIEW IS FULL OF SPOILERS, ONCE YOU GET PAST THE PART \"THE ENDING:\". DO NOT READ ON UNLESS YOU WANT IT SPOILED FOR YOU! YOU WERE WARNED! I finished the Dark Tower last night. I hadn't plannet to, I really needed to get to bed, but once I got so close, I had to continue. Wow ... hard to find the words, really. (This email will likely be longish) THE SERIES: I think the Dark Tower series is King's crowning achievement as a writer. He has created a world as rich as any other fantasy/Sc WARNING! THIS REVIEW IS FULL OF SPOILERS, ONCE YOU GET PAST THE PART \"THE ENDING:\". DO NOT READ ON UNLESS YOU WANT IT SPOILED FOR YOU! YOU WERE WARNED! I finished the Dark Tower last night. I hadn't plannet to, I really needed to get to bed, but once I got so close, I had to continue. Wow ... hard to find the words, really. (This email will likely be longish) THE SERIES: I think the Dark Tower series is King's crowning achievement as a writer. He has created a world as rich as any other fantasy/Sci-Fi/Horror epic, replete with a fasincating history and characters that make you aching for more. In Roland Deschain, he's created I think his greatest and most dynamic character. He is dark, brooding, yet classicly heroic all at once, full of, like all real people, many contradictions and inner turmoils. His quest for the Dark Tower I feel is not only a holy one, not just his destiny, but something of his own personal validation, an obsession, the only way he could justify the deaths of so many loved ones and companions over the years. The series clearly has taken on a different life from the one it started with, as most series probably do. I think King switched gears a number of times which makes for slightly shaking continuity, but I think he did his best at finding ways to weave it together. A lesser writer wouldn't have been able to do so. He has said he plans or at least would like to rewrite them, and I think that is interesting and would love to read them again. I probably will whether he does so or not. THE ENDING: The part you're waiting for. The part we all read seven big books for. I realized at least two or three books ago that there would be no way he could end it that would please everybody. And as I read on, I had no idea how he'd end it and decided to have no preconceived notions or hopes. But boy, I sure didn't expect that! I have to say, that upon reading the intro to the final chapter from the Storyteller himself, the warning to not read on and leave the story as it is, I was tempted to do so. I know many wouldn't agree with me, but I think Roland entering the Dark Tower and the doors shutting behind him wouldn't be a bad way to end the book. It would leave it to your imagination, what he would find there. I really almost put it down to sleep on it. But then I thought no, I have to go on. I've come this far! Yes, in a way, the ending is tragic, sad, and extremely unfair. We have read now thousands of pages worth of Roland Deschain's torments and struggles he's gone through to get this far, and then only to have been blasted back to the beginning? It's horrible. It makes you angry. Or at least shocked. A knee jerk reaction might be to say that it was a cop out, that King didn't know how to end the book at went this route at the last minute. I don't really believe that. In a way, yes, I find the ending bittering. My heart really is broken for Roland. I don't think I've ever read a book with an ending that has left me so effected. I even reread the very end of it again this morning over breakfast. Yes, the ending is bittering, and yet, I love it in a lot of ways too. Not love it as in this is the way I think it should have ended, but love it because it knocked me on my backside, love it in the way that you can love a bad thing at times. In a way, to me at least, the ending just might make a little sense. It you really think about it ... what did you expect to happen to Roland once he reached the top of the Tower? Would he pass into a sort of Heaven, rejoined with his love Susan and his former Ka mates? That is probably the ending some people wanted. And if that's what happened, I would have been fine with that too. Would he have confronted God himself? And if so, what would Roland have done before such a God? Roland, one of the things that makes him so wonderful, is kind of a jerk. After all that trouble, all that sacrifice, if said God said something Roland didn't like, I think, much like Conan, he'd tell his Maker to take a flying leap, maybe even draw his gun on him and get blasted into nothingness. But why this? Why the torture? I think the answer is in Roland himself. I think it's a sort of punishment for Roland's arrogance and pride. I think Roland's destiny was to save the Beam, save the Dark Tower. He did that. But he insisted on moving on. He insisted on going to the top of the Dark Tower, something that is perhaps forbidden by Gan or the Powers That Be. He saved the Dark Tower, saved the Beam, and yet it was not enough. As always (and as echoed by the voices he hears at the end of the book) he has to have it His way. And for that, I think, like something out of Greek myth, he has to pay a price. And as King himself says in the Afterword, there is a bit of hope. In the next incarnation, he has the Horn of Eld. Something he didn't have in the previous. Perhaps, just perhaps, with some more trial and error, once the Beam and the Tower saved (perhaps stilling getting all the way, so as to kill the Crimson King), Roland may just turn around and go back to the Callas, and live out the rest of his days quiet and peacefully, maybe as a sort of Sheriff, then going to the Clearing at the End of the Path, and THEN be united withi Susan, Cuthbert, Alain, and the rest. Maybe I'm just grateful that King didn't end it the way I feared. The more I read on, and the more sai King appeared, I was terrified and more and more certain that once Roland met face to face with the Crimson King, that it would be Stephen King himself. I even started to fear that the name, the Crimson KING was a clue. Thankfully, I was wrong. And then, I feared even worse, that once he got to the top of the tower, that there he'd find Stephen King, sitting in a pseudo office of sorts, surrounded by old books and manuscripts, as mad as the Hatter, banging away at an old typewriter and tossing the crumpled up pages over his shoulder making a big pile. That's what I feared, and compared to that, I like this ending just fine. ...more Learned a valuable lesson with this book....never recommend a series to friends until it is finished. I am one of Stephen King's 'constant readers.' Usually I am a big fan, and I've bought enough of his expensive hardcovers over the years that I'm perfectly comfortable throwing in my two cents about the dreadful way he ended The Dark Tower. I'm applying that two stars rating to the last three books of the series, Wolves of the Calla, Song Of Susannah (UGH!) and this, The Dark Tower. They all seem Learned a valuable lesson with this book....never recommend a series to friends until it is finished. I am one of Stephen King's 'constant readers.' Usually I am a big fan, and I've bought enough of his expensive hardcovers over the years that I'm perfectly comfortable throwing in my two cents about the dreadful way he ended The Dark Tower. I'm applying that two stars rating to the last three books of the series, Wolves of the Calla, Song Of Susannah (UGH!) and this, The Dark Tower. They all seem to have been written in a rush after King's brush with mortality when he was hit by that van. What a waste of all the great material he had to work with. If I was rating the first four books, my review would have been five stars. Unfortunately...... Hated the way the vast world of the gunslinger kept getting smaller, with constant trips back to good old New York, to dabble in real estate and investing in Microsoft. Real friggin' epic. Oh, and ANOTHER personality for Susannah. All the metafiction King attempted by writing himself into the story falls flat, and I think breaks the contract he made with readers in earlier books, to play it straight with us and deliver something majestic. All the lame Harry Potter references begs for comparisons between this series and Rowling's, which just wrapped up. I hope King read Deathly Hollows and saw the way a writer can end their story with a satisfying bang, instead of this muddled, poorly plotted disappointment. I could go on and on, but it is getting late. Gotta say, though- I'm surprised by all the five star ratings. ...more The 2011 re-read The quest for the Dark Tower comes to a brutal conclusion. Can Roland and his friends stop the Breakers of Algul Siento, safeguard the Beam, protect the Rose, stop Stephen King from being run down and killed, and reach the Dark Tower? This is the end of my favorite epic of all time. I'm just going to mark the rest of the review as spoilers. Read at your own risk. (view spoiler) [ Here we are again. Has it really been seven years since the last time I read this? When the last Dark Towe The 2011 re-read The quest for the Dark Tower comes to a brutal conclusion. Can Roland and his friends stop the Breakers of Algul Siento, safeguard the Beam, protect the Rose, stop Stephen King from being run down and killed, and reach the Dark Tower? This is the end of my favorite epic of all time. I'm just going to mark the rest of the review as spoilers. Read at your own risk. (view spoiler) [ Here we are again. Has it really been seven years since the last time I read this? When the last Dark Tower book was finally published in 2004, I took a Friday off work to make sure I'd have plenty of time to read that first weekend. I don't remember how many days it took to read through the 800+ pages but I know I tore through it. The re-read has almost been like a completely new book. Except... ...Well, there's no real way to sugar coat this. The first time through, I shed silent man tears at the deaths of Eddie, Jake, and even Oy the billy-bumbler. Since I knew what was coming, you'd think I'd be able to brace myself during the re-read. Nope. There were silent man tears shed once again. I think it was actually worse this time since I knew what was going to happen. So much has changed since 2004 when I last finished this book. People have passed through my life and some have passed on altogether. To the clearing at the end of the path, as Roland would say. A lot happens in seven years. When Roland calls out the names of his ka-tet and the others outside the tower, I'd be lying if I said I hadn't thought of doing something similar. There's a feeling of suspense throughout most of the 800 pages, from the battle at Algul Siento to the saving of Stephen King to the final fight at the end. Roland's feeling of loss was a very real thing. I know because I felt it too. I think it was actually Roland's feeling of loss that pushed my buttons rather than the actual deaths and the breaking of the ka-tet. When the toughest son of a bitch in all the worlds cries, it's some serious shit. By the time this book rolls around, Roland is a vastly different person from the ruthless Man with No Name he was in The Gunslinger. Even before the Dark Tower was completed, it was one of the books against which I measured all others. Since re-reading the entire saga a second time, I'm happy to say that it still is. That's not to say I don't have any complaints about the saga. For one thing, I felt like Eddie and Walter both went out like chumps. Walter's portrayed as a big bad throughout the series and didn't really do much. It made Mordred seem like a capable threat but I would have preferred Walter dying by Roland's hand. Speaking of Mordred, his storyline almost felt tacked on and I felt the whole Susannah-Mia thing was overly complex. The Crimson King was a little bit of a letdown as well. The final battle felt like something out of a video game and I couldn't help but picture The Crimson King looking like Dr. Robotnik from Sonic the Hedgehog. The ending seems to be a big problem for a lot of people. I didn't have a problem with the ending during the first read, nor do I have a problem with it now. The underlying theme of the series is that Ka is a wheel. Roland going back to the beginning reinforces that fact. King also let himself an opportunity to redo the series if he is so inclined in Roland having the Horn of Eld in his possession at the resumption of his quest. (hide spoiler) ] I don't really have much else to say. It was my favorite epic when I was 19 and will probably be my favorite epic when I'm 99. It's not for everyone but few really good books are. I'll be reading it again in the future. Hopefully sooner than another seven years. ...more \u201dThe roses of Can'-Ka No Rey opened before him in a path to the Dark Tower, the yellow suns deep in their cups seeming to regard him like eyes.\u201d Journey\u2019s end approaches, and the last gunslinger at last sets his gaze upon the great shadowy column at the end of the road. Yet dangers still lie in the way, and secrets, and the greatest mystery of all: what lies beyond the gate? What can be found at the top of the Tower? Reading Stephen King\u2019s Dark Tower series has now been a journey spanning years. I \u201dThe roses of Can'-Ka No Rey opened before him in a path to the Dark Tower, the yellow suns deep in their cups seeming to regard him like eyes.\u201d Journey\u2019s end approaches, and the last gunslinger at last sets his gaze upon the great shadowy column at the end of the road. Yet dangers still lie in the way, and secrets, and the greatest mystery of all: what lies beyond the gate? What can be found at the top of the Tower? Reading Stephen King\u2019s Dark Tower series has now been a journey spanning years. It had its upsides and downsides. Sometimes it seemed like a pendulum spinning endlessly back and forth between tedious boredom and spectacular amazement. This seventh volume was difficult to get through. Although the beginning kicked off with a continuation of the climactic part of Song of Susannah , this book as a whole was the most boring part of the Dark Tower series since the second book. I was wondering sometimes if it deserved to be simply abandoned. But I convinced myself that I had gotten this far. I had to see the ending. And it turned out to become one of my favourite series of all time. Because the ending is fucking perfect. Contrary to a lot of people, I found the final set of chapters to be an excellently fitting way of ending a Stephen King book, the perfect ending to the Dark Tower series, and one of the best endings I have ever read in speculative fiction. \"All right. I go. Long days and pleasant nights. May we meet in the clearing at the end of the path when all worlds end.\" Yet even then he knew this would not happen, for the worlds would never end, not now, and for him there would be no clearing. For Roland Deschain of Gilead, last of Eld's line, the path ended at the Dark Tower. And that did him fine. Dark Tower reviews : #1 The Gunslinger #2 The Drawing of the Three #3 The Waste Lands #4 Wizard and Glass #5 Wolves of the Calla #6 Song of Susannah #7 The Dark Tower ...more It's not just the non-ending. Its the way he spends two books essentially stripping the series of everything good about it and replacing it with trite, poorly done, nudge nudge wink wink garbage. I waited years to find out how this would all end and to get a hastily done, sloppily written, poorly thought out book, capped with a lecture on how endings suck, swiftly followed by a non-ending is in a lot of ways insulting. I understand King didn't have a lot of desire to finish the series and was ti It's not just the non-ending. Its the way he spends two books essentially stripping the series of everything good about it and replacing it with trite, poorly done, nudge nudge wink wink garbage. I waited years to find out how this would all end and to get a hastily done, sloppily written, poorly thought out book, capped with a lecture on how endings suck, swiftly followed by a non-ending is in a lot of ways insulting. I understand King didn't have a lot of desire to finish the series and was tired of people bugging him about it. But this book and the previous one feel very much like King giving his readership the old one finger salute. ...more The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed. I don't think a sentence has intrigued me more in the literary world. The italicized sentence started the long journey of Roland Deschain of Gilead, line of Eld. And, it finishes King's telling of Roland Deschain's, dan-dinh of the ka-tet, journey. I'm sitting here, thinking, trying to formulate the right words to say what I need to in this review. It's almost 3 a.m., and I have to be quite honest: this journey has worn me out. The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed. I don't think a sentence has intrigued me more in the literary world. The italicized sentence started the long journey of Roland Deschain of Gilead, line of Eld. And, it finishes King's telling of Roland Deschain's, dan-dinh of the ka-tet, journey. I'm sitting here, thinking, trying to formulate the right words to say what I need to in this review. It's almost 3 a.m., and I have to be quite honest: this journey has worn me out. Emotionally, I don't think I could handle another installment. I don't think I could handle another trip in Roland's life. I say this with praise, not disdain. A much lighter read will be taking place after this... I was a little worried King would leave things unfinished in areas. With a story so involved, so many characters, and odds and ends to tie up, I was worried I would be left wondering, \"What happened to...??\" I wasn't. I know everything King wanted us to know about Roland, Eddie, Jake, Susannah, Oy, and every character in-between. I think that is a small part of what made this story so great. Was this the ending I wanted? To be quite honest, I didn't know what I wanted, well, maybe to some degree. Was it what I expected? Absolutely not. Am I left feeling empty? YES. Am I feeling like I need emotional therapy because of how many times I have cried reading this book? Well, we won't go there...;) Like I said, I didn't really know what kind of ending I wanted for Roland. All I really knew was.....I didn't want him to die. If you've read it, you know what happens. For future readers, I won't spoil it for you, like I had someone keep doing to me. (And it pissed me off beyond belief.) Also, I knew, I wanted him to make it to the Dark Tower, and then....I honestly didn't know what after that. I have read some different reviews, and people wondering why King ended this book the way he did, and I think I get it. I think I understand...maybe.... I will have to think about it, though. Am I disappointed in the ending?...absolutely not. Things really began to make sense for me in this book. Loose ends tied with their other half to close out the importance. And everything fit together so perfectly, so magically, and there were no loose ends for me. I'm going to get into some spoilery junk, so if you haven't read it, do yourself a major solid, and don't cheat... (view spoiler) [ I understand why he did it...I understand why Eddie died. It was ka. When Eddie died, I felt like...the journey really started to be 'over.' When Jake died...I was so damned angry at King. I thought, \"Finally, father and son are together...Finally, Roland can stop beating himself up over dropping Jake.\" But no...King just had to go there. Break my heart. Jake is without a doubt, my favorite character in this series. I don't know if I can fully explain why, but he is. I think its because his parents cast him off to the side, and let someone else raise him without any regard to his feelings....just like my own mother did. There's a wisdom which comes from knowing \"the truth\", say thank ya, and Jake definitely shows it in this journey. Having Jake die.....hurt. But, I guess in the end, he didn't really die...He just took his life to somewhere where Mid-World can't harm him any longer. Roland, I've definitely loved since he openend the three doors, and formed his ka-tet. (Well, Jake's journey into Mid-World for the second time was different, as we all know). There was never a time when I felt like I didn't like Roland. I always felt like...and this is weird,...but I could trust what he said, his wisdom, knowledge, and just him. When Roland was around, I felt like the ka-tet was safe. Safe from harm. But, I guess even the most powerful of gunslingers can't save everyone, can they? Eddie....ha...Well, he made me laugh quite a bit. He reminds me a bit of my older brother. Always cracking jokes, even when it's inappropriate. I really enjoyed the way his character grew and changed from junkie to a gunslinger who can stand with the best of the best...Roland of Gilead. Eddie really grew on me, and matured over time. I think it is what partially helped him to grow on me. His undying love for Susannah proved he was more than just a recovering junkie wasting his life on drugs. It proved he was human, had a heart, and a will to live. But, being a gunslinger, he also proved his worth. He helped to save the Dark Tower from falling, even if he didn't get to see the Dark Tower itself and touch it. Ka is a real bitch. Oy....who doesn't love Oy? I cried...okay...bawled when Mordred murdered Oy. See? Told you I need Dark Tower therapy. Oy provided a lightness, a reprieve from darkness. He added so much character to the story, or at least I thought so. I think I said this in a previous review of one of the DT books, but I love animals. I have two cats of my own, and one of whom is very, very special to me. I thought, for the longest time, Oy would make it to the Dark Tower. I knew better deep down inside. I knew it was Roland's journey to make alone....and for that...Oy had to die. Did I like it?....Oh hell to the no, I did not. But, at least, it's just a story....No real billy-bumbler died. Say thank ya big-big. Again...ka.. Susannah, has been my least favorite character. She has been since the beginning. In a previous review, I said I thought her character was lacking, and I think King really brought her around in the end. She still isn't my favorite, and I don't 'hate' her character in the slightest. In fact, I thought she was perfect for the series. However, she just wasn't my favorite. I, for some reason was surprised she was the one who made it that long on the journey. I really thought after Eddie died, she would be gone...like dead gone. Actually, I thought she was going to die first. Don't know why I thought that, but I did. I knew someone...didn't know so many though, was going to die. For some reason, I suspected it was her. King definitely proved me wrong. And for that, I say thank ya. (hide spoiler) ] I say thank ya because, this whole time, throughout the entire journey, I never knew what to expect. I had someone spoil several things in the story for me before I started to read this journey, and it made me quite angry. Fortunately, I had a few people tell me the story was so much more than those few inklings of spoilers: Blaine the Train, the wolves of Calla Bryn Sturgis, the literary ties to other famous stories, Gasher, Pere Callahan and his story (I also really admired him), etc.... I am glad I took this journey with Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy, and everyone else they met along the path of the beam. It was definitely a wild ride. It had it's ups and downs, action-packed and dull or down moments, but all in all, the journey was definitely worth it. ...more My first thought was, he lied in every word... Isn\u2019t it funny? So, you read 7 books (8, if you count The Wind Through The Keyhole), you\u2019re at the end of the last one and you\u2019re wondering how the heck will it end. It\u2019s not about the journey anymore. The journey is over. It\u2019s 110% about the destination. You have no predictions, no clues, no nothing. You can\u2019t even try to guess because your mind is completely empty and all you have are the words you\u2019re reading, page after page after page. It\u2019s like My first thought was, he lied in every word... Isn\u2019t it funny? So, you read 7 books (8, if you count The Wind Through The Keyhole), you\u2019re at the end of the last one and you\u2019re wondering how the heck will it end. It\u2019s not about the journey anymore. The journey is over. It\u2019s 110% about the destination. You have no predictions, no clues, no nothing. You can\u2019t even try to guess because your mind is completely empty and all you have are the words you\u2019re reading, page after page after page. It\u2019s like you held your breath for the last 300 pages or so. And then you\u2019re finally there, standing beside Roland, crying the names of your friends and loved ones and ka-mates; those names carried clear in that strange air, as if they would echo forever. You enter the Dark Tower. You begin to climb the stairs and soon enough you find yourself at the top of the Dark Tower, watching your name carved on the last door. You open it. And you understand... (view spoiler) [...how useless your life can be. How your dreams and hopes mean nothing. They aren\u2019t even really yours. You\u2019re like Sisif, rolling a boulder uphill, without end. But it\u2019s OK. Because you forget. And you start a new cycle. Again. And again. And again. Until the end of time. (hide spoiler) ] Oh Discordia! That is the truth. ...more So, the first time I read this book I rated it 3 stars, and that was probably a bit high for it, because I hated the ending. I hated it so much, left such a bad taste in my mouth, that it sort of spoiled my thoughts of the whole series. I wanted to reread it, been meaning to for awhile, since there were details that escaped my memory entirely, but I was afraid to - afraid that I would end up still hating it as much, if not more than before. (Allow me to specify. (view spoiler) [When I say ending I So, the first time I read this book I rated it 3 stars, and that was probably a bit high for it, because I hated the ending. I hated it so much, left such a bad taste in my mouth, that it sort of spoiled my thoughts of the whole series. I wanted to reread it, been meaning to for awhile, since there were details that escaped my memory entirely, but I was afraid to - afraid that I would end up still hating it as much, if not more than before. (Allow me to specify. (view spoiler) [When I say ending I don't mean the loop. I was ok with the loop. It made a kind of sense, and it left you with hope that this was the last loop. Roland had the horn. It \"felt good, like he never felt it before\", and you knew - just knew that this would be the last time. No, it wasn't the loop. It was Patrick fucking Danville being introduced to the story in the last 100 or so pages, and magically erasing out the Crimson King, the ultimate Big Bad of the story who ended up being some asshole on a balcony throwing sneetches! There was no final confrontation between Roland and Mordred (not really), between Roland and the CK, or between Roland and Walter/Flagg (and I won't get started on how lame of a death that was). (hide spoiler) ] But this time I went in with a purpose, and I fanwanked . Oh, I wanked like nobody's business to make this thing make sense, and to make me not hate it so much. And I did it with such aplomb that I ended up actually being quite at peace with the ending. And I'm glad that I did because, honestly, it's a good series. Oh, there are some parts that aren't quite as good as others (Waste Lands and Song of Susannah, for instance), and there are parts within individual books which get a bit bogged down, or don't entirely make sense, or have some continuity issues - but, overall, I liked it, and I wanted to like it more. I liked the world(s), and the characters. I loved watching them develop as people and grow as a tet. I love the many sides of Roland. There was just so much to like about the series, that I didn't want it to end on such a bad note. Besides, the start of this book is pretty damn awesome. I was caught up in the whole thing from the get-go, even though I was hesitant to pick it up and start it because of my fears of impending doom. The whole first third of the book is pretty much non-stop action and awesomeness... and we couldn't just let that all go because of King's inability to write an ending some crap at the end. So - here's my wank. (view spoiler) [* Climax: Did you feel that the defeat of CK was a bit anti-climactic? Of course you did - because it's not the climax. The real turning points happen when the Beams are saved - first the taking of Blue Heaven and then the saving of Sai King. Sure, as battles goes, the one at Blue Heaven isn't exactly the most exciting of final, epic showdowns - but that was, in many ways, the final showdown. After that point things are sort of winding down and wrapping up. *Patrick Danville: Deus ex Machine from Hell - or a dan-tete (little savior) put in the path of ka? I mean, sure, there's this person that isn't mentioned before who comes out of nowhere and becomes really important to the story - but haven't we seen this before? Isn't the series full of these people? Some called dan-tete, like John Cullum and Irene Tassenbaum, others random people who later become important, like Calvin Tower and Aaron Deepneau, and some pulled from other stories/worlds, like Pere Callahan and Ted Brautigan. Isn't the entire story about ka pushing them along and helping them out? So why not one final dan-tete to help them on their way? And, hey, at least he is mentioned earlier in the story, and Insomnia is brought to Roland's attention, though he leaves it behind. * Crimson King: I'm still disappointed that there wasn't a big, final battle between the White and the Red - but I wouldn't say that Roland didn't have a hand in defeating him. The entire series is Roland chipping away at him bit by bit, in a way. Afterall, CK, being the embodiement of the Red, gains in power from Chaos - when the world is moving away, and the Beams are breaking, so on and so forth. But Roland's entire quest, as champion of the White, is about working against him. Every battle he wins, such as at the Calla, and saving the Beams, and Sai King, is chipping away at the CK - chipping away at his power and, apparently, his mind. Granted, as hubbie puts it, this is victory \"in the most ass way possible\" - but, still... it's something. ;) And, anyway, aren't we told, time and time again, that the Crimson King is bugfuck insane? Well, guy on the balcony certain qualifies. (p.s. As a reading tip - it really helps if you mentally skip over the 'EEEEEEEEEEEE's.) (hide spoiler) ] There - now isn't everything ever so much better? I'll do you one better. I'll tell you how the final loop could go, and how everyone could live happily ever after: (view spoiler) [So, Roland as the horn. According to 'The Road to the Dark Tower' book, the horn is a talisman, a connection for Roland not just to his old life/world/tet, but to his Self, his humanity. When he left the horn, he lost a piece of himself that matters. This time he has the horn - and, thus, his humanity. Because of this, he doesn't let Jake fall. He still catches Walter because, honestly, he was always going to anyway, but Jake's there to watch his back. When they get to the beach, because there are two, Roland doesn't lose the two fingers on his right hand. Maybe Jake does instead, or maybe neither do, but, however it goes, Roland's hand is saved. Because of this, when Roland shoots Pimli at Blue Heaven, he shoots with his strong, perfect hand, and kills him flat out. No lingering death means he never gets a chance to shoot Eddie, which in turn means that they don't have to delay their trip to 1999 to save King while Eddie has his slow, drawn out death. So they get to 1999, all four of them, and with enough time to get where they need to be to save King, and no one has to sacrifice himself in order to do so. Since Eddie and Jake don't die, Susannah (the bitch) doesn't have the need to leave, and Oy doesn't have to sacrifice/suicide himself to save Roland, since all 5 are there, they can take turns taking watch, and Mordred never ends up being much of a threat at all. Everyone survives, and, hell, they can still come across Patrick Danville on the way, 'cause, like I said, what's one more dan-tete - one more convenient coincidence - in a story full of them? Roland gains the Tower, this time worthy of it - a true champion of the White (which he wasn't before, because he failed by letting Jake fall, by losing his humanity and sacrificing anything for his obsession) - and renews the Tower/Universe, and is thus renewed himself... and they live happily ever after. Maybe they get transported to some where and when where they can live out their days... maybe they even come across another Susan or Cuthbert or Alain. I mean, Susannah got copies of Eddie and Jake - so why not? (Ok, I have an answer for why not, actually, but shush.) (hide spoiler) ] So, there you have it. But, really, it's not that much fanwank. Some of it actually makes a lot of sense, all things considered. I still think some of the ending was weak, and I'm not going to say it was perfect - but maybe it wasn't quite as bad as I thought it was the first time. (Sort of like how I liked 'Order of the Phoenix' much more on the second read, and 'Deathly Hallows', too, for that matter. Of course, I rationalized those a bit, too. I have a grand gift for it, it seems. LOL) ...more I feel like I'm broken in 10 different places. It's over. It really is over. Roland Deschain of Gilead has finally completed his quest to reach The Dark Tower - none for the better, none for the worse. There were so much losses, heartbreaks, and blood. SO MUCH BLOOD WAS SHED. And I have suffered through every....damn..... bit .... of......it. Cried my way through too. When I've patched up all 10 broken pieces of myself, I'll be doing a super lengthy review of the entire Dark Tower series. It real I feel like I'm broken in 10 different places. It's over. It really is over. Roland Deschain of Gilead has finally completed his quest to reach The Dark Tower - none for the better, none for the worse. There were so much losses, heartbreaks, and blood. SO MUCH BLOOD WAS SHED. And I have suffered through every....damn..... bit .... of......it. Cried my way through too. When I've patched up all 10 broken pieces of myself, I'll be doing a super lengthy review of the entire Dark Tower series. It really is a true magnum opus . And dare I say it? This is the best series I've ever read in my short life so far. First to Harry Potter even. (and I thought no other series could top The Harry Potter series). Say sorry, sai-Rowling. ...more 2016 - I just finished my year-long quest to read everything Dark Tower and listen to everything DT I could find on audio. There is a very different feel to the tale when read to you by someone else. I loved it, but sadly, the final CD broke about halfway through. Weird, right? I think it may have been God's way of telling me to read the end, not listen. That brings up a very interesting thing that just occurred to me. I don't want to spoil anything, but for those who have read it (and had their h 2016 - I just finished my year-long quest to read everything Dark Tower and listen to everything DT I could find on audio. There is a very different feel to the tale when read to you by someone else. I loved it, but sadly, the final CD broke about halfway through. Weird, right? I think it may have been God's way of telling me to read the end, not listen. That brings up a very interesting thing that just occurred to me. I don't want to spoil anything, but for those who have read it (and had their hearts broken) does our continuing to read past the warning cause a reset? Is it our, the readers, fault? If I stopped listening after the epilogue (coincidentally, when my CD broke!) would there have been success? My head is spinning and I need to think about this more. 2009 - I finally finished. Let me begin by saying that I think the readers who complain about the ending are...whining! It was perfect. I don't want to post spoilers, but personally, I believe that THIS TIME he will actually complete his quest. That one mistake was made, something left behind, he obviously has it this time around...task completed. It just took a few \"drafts\", if you will. I realized in this book, that as much as I loved Roland's Ka-Tet, Susannah was important to me only because of her interaction with \"the boys\". I didn't like her as well without her love of Eddie and Jake to wriggle in my heart. The care she took of Patrick wasn't enough to keep my feelings for her strong. Having said that, I felt she left the tale with a whimper , as opposed to the BANG! I felt her contributions deserved. That's not a complaint, just an observation. A friend has been in love with <---C>Eddie Dean</---C> since his first appearance. Although my love came late, I love Roland. In this installment especially, I fell head-over-heels in love. No, he isn't the most sensitive, sympathetic sweetheart, but if Roland Deschain loves you, although you may die a tragic death, your life will have been worth the living. He will NOT forget your love and your memory will live forever in the field of roses. Each time he said \"My dear\" my heart would melt a bit more than I felt was possible. There was never a more faithful, honest, protective man of his true friends. Yes, being important to him probably brings a sad end, but it's a sad end worth the trip. I had no problem with King's insertion of himself into the story. As he explains, and I have always felt, fantasy is so much more believable with a realistic touchstone to anchor my belief. HE was my anchor here. I know he painted himself differently than he really appears, but wouldn't we all? It doesn't make his contribution to the story any less important or central. King IS Gan for Roland's world. He certainly wasn't going to come right out and SAY that, but we, the constant readers, know that. He SHOULD be there. How could the tale be spun without his presence? When Roland speaks the names of his fallen comrades, and loves, at the end of his path, tears ran down my face. Hundreds more died on the journey to his quest, but THESE are the deaths he felt. The deaths that made him the man he has become. The man I have come to love more and more with each installment, but mostly with THIS one. In this one the cost of that walk up the Tower steps was tangible to me, the reader, and I cried FOR him. Not just WITH him, but FOR him. I am completely certain that this go-round, he succeeds, and that's exactly the ending I would choose. As King says, life never ends with a happily ever after, but give the hope of SOME happiness, and I can accept that. Roland deserves SOME happiness, or at lest the feeling of a job well done. I think at the end of this round he will have it. ...more Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews The quest for the Dark Tower is ending! All the weary miles, endless deaths, heroic stands, and lost loved ones is finally coming to an end for Roland Deschain of Gilead and his ka-tet. And the weary but dedicated fan can finally savor that ending. An ending that will somehow, someway tie up all the loose plots and cause all their frustration about the years between novels, the endless lore changes, the confusing multiverse, and even Stephen King writ Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews The quest for the Dark Tower is ending! All the weary miles, endless deaths, heroic stands, and lost loved ones is finally coming to an end for Roland Deschain of Gilead and his ka-tet. And the weary but dedicated fan can finally savor that ending. An ending that will somehow, someway tie up all the loose plots and cause all their frustration about the years between novels, the endless lore changes, the confusing multiverse, and even Stephen King writing himself into the story to disappear from their minds For the end of the Dark Tower Saga will be a wonderful, dramatic, earth-shattering ending. The same kind of ending Tolkien provided fantasy fans with in The Return of the King, where a reader watched breathlessly as Frodo and Sam slunk across the desolate plains of Mordor, striving to reach Mount Doom and destroy the One Ring; only to discover to their sheer wonder and delight that the tale was still not done, but that Tolkien would allow them to follow along behind the hobbits for just a little longer - until the true ending at the Grey Havens. That is the type of finale The Dark Tower must have, because every reader of King\u2019s saga knows that a tale as massive and epic as this deserves that Lord of the Rings type of closure. The kind of ending where a reader closes the novel and sits there, stunned into silent contemplation at the stupendous journey that they have finally COMPLETED! And as a reader begins The Dark Tower Book VII , he/she will begin to see his/her deeply held hope coming to fruition as dangling plots begin to be completed. Immediately, Roland and his friends set forth to stop the Breakers of Algul Siento and save the Beam, protect the Rose (whatever it really is) in New York, and stop Stephen King from being run down by a real life automobile and killed. Everything begins to take shape for the final push to the Dark Tower. So it seems obvious that finally Stephen King is going to reveal the \u201c5 Ws and H\u201d of the grand saga. Who the hell is this Crimson King, who has orchestrated the destruction of world after world in the multiverse, and who the hell is Marten Broadcloak/Randall Flagg really? What caused the Crimson King to go insane and begin to attack the Tower? Why was it so damn important for Roland to get to the tower in the first place? How did Roland\u2019s quest kept the Dark Tower multiverse from continuing to move on? When did the old ones die out and leave their machines, or when did the worlds first start moving on? And finally - after all else has been completed - where is the Dark Tower, and what will happen when Roland finally enters it? But then something unprecedented happens in this grand finale of a sweeping epic. Nothing. That is right. You won\u2019t find any of those questions answered. In fact, you won\u2019t even find a dramatic ending like Lord of the Rings. Nope. It is not going to happen. As Stephen King himself writes at the end of the Quest for the Dark Tower: I\u2019ve told my tale all the way to the end, and am satisfied. It was (I set my watch and warrant on it) the kind only a good God would save for last, full of monsters and marvels and voyaging here and there. I can stop now, put my pen down, and rest my weary hand . . . Yet some of you who have provided the ears without which no tale can survive a single day are likely not so willing. You are the grim, goal-oriented ones who will not believe that the joy is in the journey rather than the destination no matter how many times it has been proven o you. You are the unfortunate ones who still get the lovemaking all confused with the paltry squirt that comes to end the lovemaking . . . You are the cruel ones who deny the Grey Havens, where tired characters go to rest. You say you want to know how it all comes out. You say you want to follow Roland into the Tower; you say that is what you paid your money for, the show you came to see. I hope most of you know better. Want better. I hope you came to hear the tale, and not just munch your way through the pages to the ending. For an ending, you only have to turn to the last page and see what is there writ upon. But endings are heartless. An ending is a closed door no man (or Manni) can open. I\u2019ve written many, but most only for the same reason that I pull on my pants in the morning before leaving the bedroom - because it is the custom of the country. And so, my dear Constant Reader, I tell you this: You can stop here. . . Should you go on, you will surely be disappointed, perhaps even heartbroken . . . There is no such thing as a happy ending. I never met a single one to equal \u201cOnce upon a time.\u201d Endings are heartless. Ending is just another word for goodbye. And so after reading 4500 pages about Roland the Gunslinger, a reader is given a choice: stop the book without knowing what happens to Roland once he actually gets to the Dark Tower or read the ending and be disappointed. Who knew Stephen King was writing a Choose Your Own Adventure Book? Or that he was an attorney, because he just put a disclaimer in his book; a disclaimer that basically admits the ending sucks. But in any event, it doesn\u2019t matter which \u201cending\u201d a reader picks, because they both are horrid in different ways. One is the hollywood \u201cAnd they all live happily ever after ending,\u201d and the other is the \u201cYou wanted an ending, I\u2019ll show you how clever I can be while I\u2019m not giving you what you asked for\u201d ending. And they both leave a reader wondering \u201cWhy did I read this series again?\u201d The awful truth about The Dark Tower Book VII is that it is a dud. A clever buildup to a nothing happens. A Dallas \u201cGet out of the shower it\u2019s all been a dream.\u201d Another Matrix sequel were our number today boys and girls is 101, and you are the sixth Chosen One, which means your dramatic victories are not anything new. Not a \u201cflawed masterpiece\u201d at all but a cleverly disguised fake. A huge belly flop into the abyss of bad endings. A book that just stinks. In fact, this \u201csupposed\u201d finale of the Dark Tower series makes such a mess of the story that Roland\u2019s whole quest is rendered meaningless. A useless exercise in futility that is very similar to a hamster running as fast as he can on his exercise wheel. What King does to Roland in this novel is like Tolkien writing that Frodo reached Mount Doom only to discover that Sauron is really Father Christmas on psychotropic medications; the One Ring Frodo has been carrying is really a fake that Sauron allowed Gandalf and the Elves to believe was the real thing; and now - just to be a vindictive bastard (because there doesn\u2019t seem to be any other logical reason) - Frodo and the Fellowship gets to relive the whole bloody quest in an endless loop. Maybe King never knew where Roland\u2019s story was going. Maybe it was just a great idea, which he never really plotted out to guarantee that it ended correctly. I get all that, but if that is true, he should have used this last book to fix all those problems, not tell the reader \u201c I hope you came to hear the tale, and not just munch your way through the pages to the ending. \u201d Who the hell has ever went to a movie and been pleased when it stopped playing before the ending? Or worked all week just to be told \u201cNo pay check for you. Try to think back to all the fun you had here.\u201d No one. And no one is going to like this ending. You might love the series or the characters and not want to admit how horrid this last book was, but deep down you realize it. And you cope by telling yourself how great the overall story was or that King focused on Roland\u2019s spiritual journey in this book or whatever, but the fact of the matter is this novel continued the downward spiral of Roland\u2019s story and left all of us scratching our heads thinking \u201cReally, this is the end.\u201d Mr. King, I\u2019ve read epic, fantasy series. I\u2019ve read grand finales with breathtaking endings. J.R.R. Tolkien took me to the Grey Havens once upon a time. Mr. King, you\u2019re no J.R.R. Tolkien, and The Dark Tower was not The Return of the King . ...more Okay, I worked thru all seven of these \"Dark Tower\" Books because the first one was short and sweet and really caught my interest. And because they were \"non-King-like\" compared to his other books (which I don't particularly like). While a few of the books in this series are pretty good, they are hardly comparable to the Lord of the Rings , which I'm not a big fan of either. But I can tell really good story-telling from wandering around. Of the previous six books in this series, they had some tru Okay, I worked thru all seven of these \"Dark Tower\" Books because the first one was short and sweet and really caught my interest. And because they were \"non-King-like\" compared to his other books (which I don't particularly like). While a few of the books in this series are pretty good, they are hardly comparable to the Lord of the Rings , which I'm not a big fan of either. But I can tell really good story-telling from wandering around. Of the previous six books in this series, they had some truly memorable and exciting episodes. Book 4 \"Wizards and Glass\" was excellent and was enough to keep me waiting all those years with everyone else for the next installment. In other places, the series wandered around aimlessly in boring descriptions of what you usually find in most Stephen King books: Stephen King, via his growing-up days. Yeah, I know, one of the golden rules of writing is \"write what you know.\" But c'mon. King even becomes a main character in this final book, and in the worst possible way!! Which you'll discover if you get that far. Another golden rule of writing: \"When you're stuck for ideas, start killing off the main characters.\" Well, guess what. I could kind of forgive the first one in Book 6 (barely), but Book 7 was unforgivable. I put the book down halfway through and don't care about it anymore. Obviously I liked the Dark Tower books enough to keep reading them, but like any series that takes years to finish, you feel that you really know the characters after a while. In this final book, there are a few genuinely moving moments toward the beginning, but that's about all King can sustain. All I can say is, the final book is a betrayal. Sorry. ...more I love this book. This is an amazing and heart-wrenching and appropriate end to this epic series. This book is the culmination of a huge investment, both for author and reader, and it's a draining one. So much is found, and lost, and gained and lost and it makes me heartsore. As much as I love this book, I always hit a point on re-reads where I just stall. Not because the book is bad (it's most absolutely definitely assuredly not), but because after taking this journey with these characters I lo I love this book. This is an amazing and heart-wrenching and appropriate end to this epic series. This book is the culmination of a huge investment, both for author and reader, and it's a draining one. So much is found, and lost, and gained and lost and it makes me heartsore. As much as I love this book, I always hit a point on re-reads where I just stall. Not because the book is bad (it's most absolutely definitely assuredly not), but because after taking this journey with these characters I love so much, after being with them for so long, I dread the end... I dread having to put this story back on the shelf when it's over. This is the kind of book that I love beyond almost all others - books that open up their pages and let me fall right in... books that take me with them wherever it is they go, and accept me as part of the gang. This series is the epitome of escapist reading for me. I dream about this series and live in it while I read, and love it for a multitude of reasons that I couldn't even begin to enumerate here. It's amazing... So just read it already. That's all I'm saying. ...more INITIAL IMPRESION Damn it, I knew this would happen. I can't believe this ended. I was 16 when I started this series. Two years later, I managed to own all the seven books plus \"The Wind Through The Keyhole\", even though four of them are in Romanian and four in English. Now, with this installment finished... a part of my heart will relocate itself on the shelf on which they are placed. And every time I will pick up the series for another read I will find myself, aged 16 and in love, between its INITIAL IMPRESION Damn it, I knew this would happen. I can't believe this ended. I was 16 when I started this series. Two years later, I managed to own all the seven books plus \"The Wind Through The Keyhole\", even though four of them are in Romanian and four in English. Now, with this installment finished... a part of my heart will relocate itself on the shelf on which they are placed. And every time I will pick up the series for another read I will find myself, aged 16 and in love, between its pages. A part of me will still walk along Roland on his road.. many miles and many wheels, as ka wills it. Serious review to come, commala come-come. REVIEW Attention - listen to this while reading. From time to time, because of how much literature you consume on a daily basis, you forget the miracle of it. You forget how much magic stories contain, you lose the sense of mystery that they bring and it's sad, how you can pass over so many works without ever thinking: this is amazing . I blame this on how literature evolved. Like many (if not all) other art domains, it lost its soul over money. It became an industry, and as always, serializing something and making it a consumer good diminishes its value. This is why older literature is still going strong, it's still being read and people come back to it and compare everything else to it. Because back when Dostoievski was writing his works in order to pay his dues, he had stories to tell. And he had the mind to tell it. Nowadays, anyone can be a writer. And I really mean anyone. It's not hard - you jam up a few words in a Word document, place a title, a subtitle and an awesome quote by a long-dead figure and you give it to an editor. That editor (as many editors do, there's few that are different) will not evaluate the book based on its substance or its meaning, but by how much profit it will bring. (Look at Fifty Shades of Grey and you'll get it. It's literary trash and made millions. Because some un-fucked 40 year old moms decided it would be good for their unused vagina to buy the book and read it in the bedroom/bathtub. And do you-know-what to their you-know-what. ) This introduction seems to have no connection to Stephen King's work whatsoever. But it does. King is part of the old generation. He started reading and then proceeded to write his own pieces when books weren't yet a market . And this is why his style was formed by heart, not by dollar signs. The Dark Tower series is worth it on an incredible amount of levels. Let me put it this way - it's so complex that you can't make a resume out of it, but you're still so in love with it that you'd give it a try. How's that for captivating the reader? I am Stephen King's Constant Reader , as he calls us. He is, and has been since I was twelve years old (I know, centuries ago, right?)my favorite author. I know some readers are afraid to say that they have a favorite author/book/story, but I have them, alright? I am that type of reader. I related to King's stories more than anything throughout my life in literature because his monsters are just as real as mine are. Now, I won't try to resume this at a big scale. Put shortly, these 7 (+2, if you count The Little Sisters of Eluria and The Wind Through the Keyhole ) books are the story of Roland of Gilead's road through many worlds and times (where's and when's), his quest to find and kill the Crimson King and his friendship and love for his companions. The other important characters are Jake Chambers, Eddie Dean and Susannah Dean (yes they become husband and wife, take that for a spoiler)(but this is the last book in the series so I guess you knew that for some time), and they come to his rescue many times, just to help him achieve his goal. He is a sick man. His obsession killed many people over the thousands of years that he had to travel the Universe. And he keeps going, nothing is able to stop, nothing can delay him and if anything or anyone tries to mess his road up, he is simply going to eliminate them. There are no \"but's\" in this. It's his road. Let's stop with the story itself because you are reading the review for the last book, so you're probably here in order to try and feel more of Roland's life in your mind, even though maybe five minutes ago you closed the book and shoved it at the wall, screaming at the top of your lungs: STEPHEN KING, YOU SICK SON OF A BITCH, HOW DO YOU DARE STOMP INTO MY LIFE AND SHIT ALL OVER IT?! I'm just sayin', you know.. not that that was my reaction.. or.. anything.. you know.. Focus. The most amazing thing about this series is, however (for me), the work and heart put in it. Yes, it's not the best written thing you'll ever see, but neither are other King books. Yes, it leaves things untied at the end and loses track of some important features, but it messes you up, and, let's face it, you masochist, you wanted it. Yes, I'm talking to you. You liked it. You expected it to happen because no 9 book series can end with a happy ending, right? ... Focus. Focus. The work. The work that was put in it. Stephen King started writing this when he was 19. As i so beautifully said in my review HERE for Wolves of the Calla (and I quote myself, haha): Stephen King started writing this when he was 19. I'm almost 19 and still haven't learned how to wipe my ass properly, so to say. (metaphor here, guys. don't take it literally). . HE finished publishing the main body of the series in 2004. BUT! There is a but. At the end of this installment right here, there is a little line saying: June 19, 1970 - April 7, 2004: I tell God thankya. 34 years. Thirty-four years. Do you understand? The magnitude? The scale of this? Do you? Do you really? King calls this the magnum opus of his life. I couldn't agree more. This is what King was meant to write. Anything else, his novels, his short stories, his collections, his poems, his essay, his comics, his theatre work, anything else fades away, when compared to this. Because he didn't just write a single-standing story, on itself. No. He combined a massive amount of his own work in this. Let's just start with the Crimson King. Raise your hands if anyone here has ever read The Stand . Yeah? Sounds fammiliar now? Do you remember Pere Callahan, a character from the book, which we meet in the 5th installment? Have you ever hear of 'Salem's Lot ? Mmmyeah, me too, sounds like I know it. Might these all be King's own books? They fucking are. They are his own writings, which he has combined into this massive, multiple-thousands page work. And the best thing about it is it all makes sense . It does. It's logical. I've come to wonder if King has wrote everything else because he needed them for the Dark Tower series or wrote the Dark Tower series because he could comprise all of them in this one. Mindfuck... But, wait, there's more! Not only did he place his works in this, he even put himself there. Yes. It's not the first time he's done this, or anyone, for that matter, but his version is downright creepy. He inserted himself, as a character, by his own name, with his own traits, he gave himself the role of author of Roland's world (which he is) and he then made Roland confront him in the made-up world of the series. Makes you wonder if the man is completely sane. I have to thank an entity I don't believe in that he is not . Bless his madness, because his madness changed the face of literature for good. This review it (not surprinsingly) extremely fragmented. I can't seem to pull myself together in order to write something serious, because seriousness would just take out of how GOOD this work is. GOOD, as in with caps lock, because I need you to hear it booming in your head, like the voice of the Crimson King in Roland's head... Now, see? Everything is a refference to this book after finishing it... If you already read the series(and you liked it) and you're reading this review, please know I love it as much as you do. Maybe more. If you already read the series(and you didn't like it) and you're reading this review, please know that the exit is towards the left of the stage. If you haven't read this series and you want to, I tried to make this spoiler-free, but hear me out: your life will become a smoldering ruin of emotions after you read the last line of the last book of The Dark Tower series. If you're up for that, go on. If you can't stand emotional damage.. don't you even get close. All that being said, I'll find a dark corner and slowly collapse with my back to both walls, hugging my knees and wailing for what Stephen King can do to me. I was just an innocent little girl before I met him... . Comma, commala come This review is done. I say thankya ... Long days and pleasant nights But may you have twice the number. My heart... ...more Isuse Hriste na biciklu... Bilo je potrebno toliko toga da Roland u\u010dini i toliko prepreka da zaobi\u0111e. Na po\u010detku sam, a potom sa svojim saputnicima. Bilo je potrebno da D\u017eejk umre, da mu Valter prorekne sudbinu, da svojim rukama nasilno dovu\u010de Edija i pomogne Odeti da prihvati Detu, da nai\u0111u na prvi pravi putokaz u vidu Zraka medveda, da se ponovo sretnu sa D\u017eejkom i prihvate bambura Oja za saputnika. Bilo je potrebno upoznati Rolanda i njegove prijatelje, njegovu voljenu koja je nastradala i nj Isuse Hriste na biciklu... Bilo je potrebno toliko toga da Roland u\u010dini i toliko prepreka da zaobi\u0111e. Na po\u010detku sam, a potom sa svojim saputnicima. Bilo je potrebno da D\u017eejk umre, da mu Valter prorekne sudbinu, da svojim rukama nasilno dovu\u010de Edija i pomogne Odeti da prihvati Detu, da nai\u0111u na prvi pravi putokaz u vidu Zraka medveda, da se ponovo sretnu sa D\u017eejkom i prihvate bambura Oja za saputnika. Bilo je potrebno upoznati Rolanda i njegove prijatelje, njegovu voljenu koja je nastradala i njegove tajne. Bilo je potrebno pro\u0107i kroz neka u\u017easavaju\u0107a mesta i pomo\u0107i mnogima, poput stanovnika Kale Bin Stard\u017eisa. Bilo je potrebno susresti se sa autorom li\u010dno u razli\u010ditim vremenima. Bilo je potrebno da se prevali poslednji deo puta i da se pre\u0111e poslednja prepreka: Grimizni kralj i njegov sin Mordred. Na posletku, bilo je potrebno da preboli gubitak svojih prijatelja. (view spoiler) [Bilo je potrebno 3464 stranica dok Roland nije ugledao Mra\u010dnu kulu i susreo se sa Grimiznim kraljem. 15 stranica kasnije, Roland ulazi, vrata Mra\u010dne kule se zatvaraju za njim i pri\u010da se, naizgled, zavr\u0161ava. Melem na bolnu ranu predstavlja epilog u kojem saznajemo \u0161ta se desilo sa Suzanom. \"Ima jo\u0161 svetova pored ovih\" nikada nije pru\u017eilo ve\u0107u utehu. U drugom delu epiloga pratimo Rolandov uspon uz Mra\u010dnu kulu i ultimativno bivamo oduvani onog trenutka kada otvara poslednja, \"Roland\" vrata. Od po\u010detka uspona pa sve do vrha, vidimo sobe koje se nalaze unutar Kule i svaka od njih sadr\u017ei neki artefakt iz Rolandovog \u017eivota, po\u010dev od kop\u010de i pup\u010dane vrpce kao prvi artefakt sa po\u010detka Rolandovog \u017eivota. (hide spoiler) ] Postaje jasno da nema mnogo opcija koje nam kazuju \u0161ta se iza poslednjih vrata nalazi. Jedna od njih je revolvera\u0161ev susret sa samim sobom i sjedinjavanje dva dela Rolandove li\u010dnosti, \u0161to bi moglo da objasni njegovu \u010dvrstu re\u0161enost da do Kule stigne, kao i neobja\u0161njivu silu koja ga je gonila do samog kraja. Druga opcija je da ga sa druge strane vrata sa\u010deka Gan li\u010dno ili svi njegovi preminuli prijatelji koji bi ga sa rado\u0161\u0107u do\u010dekali. Na taj na\u010din bi Roland kona\u010dno na\u0161ao svoj mir. Obe opcije su opcije koje ozna\u010davaju smrt. (view spoiler) [\"Smrt, ali ne za tebe, revolvera\u0161u. Nikad za tebe. Ti tamni\u0161. Ti bledi\u0161. Smem li biti brutalno iskren? Ti nastavlja\u0161. I svaki put zaboravlja\u0161 prethodno iskustvo. Za tebe je svaki put prvi put\". (hide spoiler) ] Malo je re\u0107i da sam odu\u0161evljena i da me je ovaj serijal pomerio na toliko na\u010dina. Da li je ovo ne\u0161to najoriginalnije \u0161to sam pro\u010ditala? Svakako da nije, kome god je poznata legenda o Vavilonskoj kuli ovakav kraj mo\u017ee biti lo\u0161, glupav, o\u010dajan, kakav god. Jednu od varijacija na temu je obradio Ted \u0106ang u svojoj pri\u010di, objavljenoj u zbirci Pri\u010de tvog \u017eivota koju iskreno preporu\u010dujem. Iskreno me je pomerilo saznanje da je pred nama samo jedan ise\u010dak Rolandovog putovanja i da verovatno nikada ne\u0107emo saznati da li se Roland promenio i samim tim prekinuo za\u010darani krug, da li je uvideo da na gre\u0161kama ne u\u010di i da cilj ne opravdava sredstvo. Svakako \u0107e postojati zamerke na to da Stiven King pi\u0161e o\u010dajne zavr\u0161etke svojih knjiga, za dobar deo bih se slo\u017eila, ali ne i za ovu pri\u010du. Edi, Suzana, D\u017eejk i Oj su najdivnija bi\u0107a opisana u nekoj Kingovoj pri\u010di. Prava je \u0161teta \u0161to Roland nije vi\u0161e u\u010dio od njih. \u0160to se njega ti\u010de, \u017eelim mu svu sre\u0107u u daljem putovanju, nadaju\u0107i se da \u0107e se jednom iskreno preispitati i shvatiti. ...more Wow, what a major disappointment. The first 4 DT books were great, and some of King\u2019s best works. It's just too bad that King waited so damn long to finish the last 3, and also too bad that he seemed to be in such a rush to do so. I actually did like #5. It didn't progress Roland's quest to the Tower much, but it was a good story . I quickly went to book 6 and found a fairly boring book, though at least it was shorter. Reluctantly, I picked up book 7. I got halfway through and stopped. Many thin Wow, what a major disappointment. The first 4 DT books were great, and some of King\u2019s best works. It's just too bad that King waited so damn long to finish the last 3, and also too bad that he seemed to be in such a rush to do so. I actually did like #5. It didn't progress Roland's quest to the Tower much, but it was a good story . I quickly went to book 6 and found a fairly boring book, though at least it was shorter. Reluctantly, I picked up book 7. I got halfway through and stopped. Many things were starting to frustrate me with it, and I had other things to read, so I put it on hold. For over two years. After reading the negative reviews I was considering never finishing it, and just leaving the series in my mind with what little sense of wonder and mystery it had left. Of course I picked it up again. I was right the first time. *Spoiler warning. If you don't want to know what happens, please skip this.* I really think that King copped out on this one. First off, Stephen King including himself as a series character was one of the worst things I have ever read. What a bunch of self indulgent crap! I really lost faith after reading that in book 6. The Crimson King was hugely disappointing. Instead of the biggest bad guy in the universe, with the ability to topple the Tower and end all worlds, Roland gets to him and he\u2019s a decrepit old Santa looking man pelting grenades at him and cackling madly. What? Patrick the Artist: The biggest last minute \u201csave my ass\u201d plot device I\u2019ve ever read. With the ability to draw things into and out of existence, this gives King free reign to get himself out of any plot holes he needs to, such as draw the Crimson King and then erase him, allowing Roland to get to the Tower without harm. The Dark Tower: Well, it\u2019s real. Does it hold the answer to all the world\u2019s questions? Is there any explanation as to why it\u2019s there or where it came from? Nothing of the sort. It is a monument to Roland and his life, each level containing a different piece of his life. What happens when he gets to the top? (this isn\u2019t a joke, I promise you) He gets sucked back all the way to the beginning of the first book, forgetting what happens with a hint that this time around, things may be different (he was supposed to blow the Horn of the Eld at the base of the Tower, but lost it as a kid. This time he has it.) Did we really read through seven long books to find out that the next time around, in another seven books that don\u2019t exist, Roland may succeed? In a way, Stephen King reminds me a George Lucas. Lucas got so full of himself after the original Star Wars trilogy that he thought he could tackle another trilogy with no help in writing or directing it. He had complete creative control and there was no one to stand over his shoulder and say, \"hey, this is kind of stupid. I don't think people are going to like it.\" And even if he did, would he listen to them? I think King has gotten to be almost the same way. He's one of the most successful writers on the planet, why should he ultimately care if people won't like this book. He even warns the readers before the last chapter to stop reading, because they will be disappointed, and to simply enjoy the book for the journey getting there. As if he were trying to make you feel bad for not liking his non-ending. As you can see, I didn't like this book, almost solely due to the ending. As usual, King's prose is good, his characters (even Patrick) are well realized and loveable, and Roland's nearly endless journey is page-turning. There was so much potential here. But alas, this is what we have. Would I recommend the Dark Tower books to others? I would say read the first one, which could be a stand alone. If you want to read the whole series, than by all means do so, it's one hell of a journey, but with such an ending, I would almost rather not have made the journey at all. ...more I finished this last week, but needed time to sort out my feelings. Truth be told, after reading the ending my mind was reeling. It was hard to start another book, because I was so hung up on this one. I know a lot of people took issue with the way it ended... But for me, personally? I loved it. BIG ENDING SPOILERS! DO NOT READ UNLESS FINISHED! (view spoiler) [What I loved most about it is how it was sort of left open for interpretation. I can see why many people would be pissed.. He gets to the t I finished this last week, but needed time to sort out my feelings. Truth be told, after reading the ending my mind was reeling. It was hard to start another book, because I was so hung up on this one. I know a lot of people took issue with the way it ended... But for me, personally? I loved it. BIG ENDING SPOILERS! DO NOT READ UNLESS FINISHED! (view spoiler) [What I loved most about it is how it was sort of left open for interpretation. I can see why many people would be pissed.. He gets to the top of the tower and it loops him back to the beginning of the story? WTF! But for me it fit, it worked perfectly. I've discussed the ending with several people, and it seems we all have different theories on why he loops back to the beginning, and we are all equally convinced that ours is the most fitting reason. I love that! It leaves so much room for friendly debate! For the record, I'll post here my take on the ending... Keep in mind, I'm a King noobie. So many of his novels are connected to the Dark Tower somehow, and I've read virtually none of them, so this view is strictly from a noobie perspective. I'm sure as I read more connecting novels my interpretation will change, and I will welcome that! But for now I'm happy basing it only on what I know, and letting it grow and change from there. So here goes, please bear with me... It seems like a lot of people think that Roland is doomed to repeat the loop, over and over, until he gets everything right. Like he made mistakes he has to rectify, one by one. That's not the impression I got... It's hard to articulate my thoughts on it, but I'm going to do my best. This is purely my speculation and interpretations, but I'm going to state it as fact to make it easier to follow. Roland's problem is the tower. His obsession is the tower. His willingness to sacrifice anything and everything to get to the tower is the problem. He could have turned back any time after stopping the breakers, certainly after erasing the Crimson King. At that point I feel like his job was done, there was nothing more Roland himself could do for the tower. But he didn't turn back.. He had to see what was at the top of the tower. He was obsessed, couldn't turn away. He chose the tower over everything else, and climbed the steps. As he climbed, he tried to block out the rooms that painted a picture of his life up to that point - he didn't care about anything, didn't want to pause to appreciate those he loved and his life, he just needed to see the top. It's always the tower for him, above anything and everything else. And it will always be the tower for him, unless something changes. Unless, through the progression of his loops, he realizes that nothing that matters is in there, and puts his companions first. Puts those he loves before the tower, rather than the tower before his loved ones. Taking time to pick up the horn is a sign that he's getting closer... Maybe even almost there. The horn is a purely sentimental object, and he picked it up only because of his love for Cuthburt. He had never bothered before, even though it would only take a moment to do so. Picking up the horn shows he's getting closer to who he needs to be to turn away once his task is complete, and not climb those steps. Who knows what Roland was like on previous loops. Maybe he never loved Eddie and Susannah and Jake and Oy, maybe he heartlessly sacrificed them, maybe he selfishly made Patrick grab the rose for him. And this time around, this time that we saw him, he loved. He cried. He was one step closer.. Maybe this next time around he'll save the universe and say that's enough, it's time to rest, I don't need to see what's at the top of the tower, I have everything I need right here around me. People I love, who love me.. What else is there? Maybe... One can hope. (hide spoiler) ] So that's my take on the ending, and for now I'm happy with it. It feels right for me, and that's what I love about this conclusion to a truly epic series - we can all find what feels right for us, and build from that should we continue to explore the SK universe. I'll end this review now, as it's already just about the longest one I've ever written. Before I do, a quick shout out to Chris and Becky; they held me down and tickled me until I agreed to start reading some King, and in particular to start the journey to the Dark Tower, and I couldn't be more grateful! Ok, maybe they didn't really tickle me... But they're plenty scary when they want something bad enough, you're better off just obeying ;) ...more Re-read September 2016 It's been 8 years since I first read The Dark Tower series and I was impressed by how little I remembered. What I never forgot though, was how it made me feel and there was no difference in that the second time round. The last installment of the series is full to the brim with all kinds of sentiments and mostly an overwhelming sense of the approaching end. It's known from the start that the mission to enter the Tower is Roland's alone but knowing doesn't make it the least b Re-read September 2016 It's been 8 years since I first read The Dark Tower series and I was impressed by how little I remembered. What I never forgot though, was how it made me feel and there was no difference in that the second time round. The last installment of the series is full to the brim with all kinds of sentiments and mostly an overwhelming sense of the approaching end. It's known from the start that the mission to enter the Tower is Roland's alone but knowing doesn't make it the least bit easier when members of the ka-tet start dying. And that's as hard to read as it is to write, I bet. It's a fact that nowadays, series keep running and running stretching indefinitely. (Have I mentioned how much I hate this sign of our times?) That sure keeps the money flowing but it also relieves the writers from the hard task of giving an end to their stories. As King says, endings are merciless. An ending is a closed door which no man can open. It is just another way to say goodbye. I may as well add that the greater a story is, the more painful the ending will be and this is no exception. Uncle Stevie fulfills his task of getting Roland to the Tower (this isn't a spoiler), while at the same time wrapping up pretty much every other loose end. He could leave it at that and we'd still be talking about a complete work, but no. After the heartbraking chapter titled \"Susannah in New York\" , King invites the readers to close the book and not read any further. But who are we kidding? We're dying to know what's inside the Tower. Just like Roland, in a way. And we had it coming. The definitive ending gives a whole different essence to the whole series. Suddenly, all we thought we knew about Roland's journey, everything we gradually found out as the story advanced through all seven books, is crumbled to the ground. It is something that exceeds all expectations and even the wildest fantasies, yet in a subtle and vague way, it's like we knew it all along. In my opinion, it's the perfect ending and how great an accomplishment it is to give the perfect ending to such a big and complex story! As for King's involvement, it serves for the notion of \"the story transcending its creator\" to become clear and a vital part of the series. I found it truely inventive and, simply put, fucking awesome, if a bit balancing between modesty and masturbation. Pretty understandably, though, opinions will differ. What I consider a flaw was the pointless and easy ending of Walter after being a basic character in the first books, as well as the role of Mordred which was actually... none, other than brutally kill one of the tet's members before Roland annoyingly easily sends him to meet his mother. Perhaps the most uninteresting and useless villain in the history of literature. And to think a whole book was spent to describe his coming to life... it's aggravating! To summarize, I truely think that The Dark Tower is the best in its category in the last quarter of the 20th century. It's complex and multi-layered combining many elements and resulting to be a magnificent work of literature. Perfect? What story is perfect? The point for a story is not to be perfect but powerful , tight and true and King's magnum opus is all three of them. Although pure fantasy, it allows the reader to relate not only to the heroes, but also to the actual story. Roland's quest to enter the Tower is deeply and utterly personal as it turns out, and so is the story itself to its readers. And that , my fellow readers, is success . ...more 9/10 What a finish to possibly one of my all time favourite series which I've ever read. I can only think of a handful of other books/series which have infiltrated my brain and emotions as much as this one and what a way to finish off. Like King said, it may not be the ending we wanted but it was the ending that was needed. This book starts with a bit of a lag from the last book but that was to be expected after the cliffhanger finale. Once things got going though there was no stoping this, let's 9/10 What a finish to possibly one of my all time favourite series which I've ever read. I can only think of a handful of other books/series which have infiltrated my brain and emotions as much as this one and what a way to finish off. Like King said, it may not be the ending we wanted but it was the ending that was needed. This book starts with a bit of a lag from the last book but that was to be expected after the cliffhanger finale. Once things got going though there was no stoping this, let's head out and get to The Dark Tower with a few stops along the way! There were a number of points which chocked me up here, I was expecting some emotions but not at the level I received. I'm sure for those who have read this they would be easy to identify (view spoiler) [such as Eddie's final words to Roland thanking him for a second chance and Roland requesting a rose to be planted where Jake lays his head one last time as an example (hide spoiler) ] . I think the ending is one of those things that will be divisive amongst fans of the series but it really clicked with me. I finished this and sort of took a moment and worked it all through my head and had a little smile after. Like King says at the end, it's all about the journey and that was really apt here. There are truly so many parts to this series that will stick with me which makes a re-read inevitable in the future. Never will I be able to listen to Elton John's \"Somebody Saved My Life Tonight\" (view spoiler) [however maybe it should have been \"Circle of Life\"\u2026 (hide spoiler) ] without my thoughts coming to Roland and his ka-tet. This book rates at the top of this series for me, just pipping The Drawing of the Three and Wizard & Glass but it is really 5*s for the series and each individual book will probably get a boost up on the re-read. If you haven't started this series then I recommend it at the highest level and if you do try it I would request that you wait until after book 2 before making a judgement on the series. If you like this try: \"11/22/63\" by Stephen King [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more On its own, THE DARK TOWER is a train wreck. Much like SONG OF SUSANNAH, it's all over the place, and meta-as-fuck. Because of this, my review of book seven will cover the series as a whole. Say sorry. Say thankee, sai. I read the first three books (THE GUNSLINGER, THE DRAWING OF THE THREE, and THE WASTE LANDS) when I was thirteen. When WIZARD AND GLASS came out, I read that one, and hated it. I still hate it, even after three reads. In 2003, I reread the first four books in anticipation of the On its own, THE DARK TOWER is a train wreck. Much like SONG OF SUSANNAH, it's all over the place, and meta-as-fuck. Because of this, my review of book seven will cover the series as a whole. Say sorry. Say thankee, sai. I read the first three books (THE GUNSLINGER, THE DRAWING OF THE THREE, and THE WASTE LANDS) when I was thirteen. When WIZARD AND GLASS came out, I read that one, and hated it. I still hate it, even after three reads. In 2003, I reread the first four books in anticipation of the release of the final three, which King announced early that year. Then, when it came out, I read WOLVES OF THE CALLA, and in 2004 I raced through SONG OF SUSANNAH (which I hated only slightly less than WIZARD AND GLASS) and, eventually, the seventh and final book, THE DARK TOWER. Ten years later, King released THE WIND THROUGH THE KEYHOLE, I blew through that one and found it a pleasant bit of storytelling. That's the history. Now onto the 2014 reread. In April, Dan of Dantastic Reviews, posted on Booklikes that he would be rereading the series, one book a month, and asked if anyone wanted to join him. Since it'd been a decade since I finished Roland's quest, I jumped at the chance, hoping that this time I'd enjoy it more. Overall, I did. WOLVES was far better the second time around, as was TOWER, but I actually hated WIZARD AND GLASS even more this go around, and found my feelings hadn't changed whatsoever where SONG OF SUSANNAH was concerned. I also reread THE WIND THROUGH THE KEYHOLE between WIZARD AND GLASS and WOLVES OF THE CALLA, as King intended. In the end, I laughed, I cried, I mourned the loss of close friends, and would still recommend the series to anyone who enjoys epic quests, crazy-original monsters, meta-fiction, and amazing world building. With the Dark Tower series, King does here what King does best: character development. You come to love every member of Roland's ka-tet, and, even when the series starts going down hill at the rate of a cinderblock dropped from the tippy-top of the Empire State Building, you're compelled to continue reading because you have to know how everything character's story ends. In fact, their fates are the best part of the entire series, and the most touching material King has ever written. Come the halfway mark of THE DARK TOWER, the tears begin, and do not let up until the final page. Strangely enough, the last sentence of the final book makes me want to start reading the entire thing all over again, but I won't, at least not for another decade, probably when my daughter's old enough to enjoy reading through it with her old man. Highlights of the series include: All the fantastic set pieces throughout the series, the battle of Tull, Jakes fall (only because it's so well done), the incomparable originality of THE DRAWING OF THE THREE, the shoot out at Balazar's place, the end of Jack Mort, Shardik's attack, every bit of the mad dash through Lud, Blaine's riddling (even though I'm one of the few who loved that insane train), the end of WIZARD AND GLASS (because, you know, it does finally end, and that's a great feeling, the fact that it's over), the titular part of THE WIND THROUGH THE KEYHOLE, the return of Father Donald Callahan (the disgraced priest from the tragic town of `Salem's Lot), the slaughter of the Wolves, the return of Sheemie (the only good part of WIZARD), Roland, Susannah, and Oy's time on Odd Lane, the thing under Castle Discordia, the final fates of Eddie Dean, Jake Chambers, Oy, and Roland, the circle completed. Low points of the series include: the lackluster ending of THE GUNSLINGER, the insta-love between Eddie and Susannah, WIZARD AND GLASS (the entire book, plus the plagiarism of THE WIZARD OF OZ), the bloated nature of WOLVES OF THE CALLA (seriously, that book could have been at least two hundred pages shorter, but that can be said of all King's book since FIRESTARTER), Stephen King writing himself into the series, 95% of SONG OF SUSANNAH, Walter/Flagg's disappointing death, part one of THE DARK TOWER (which should have been the end of SONG, and I still have no idea why it wasn't), the anti-climactic fate of Mordred, the description of the Crimson King (Santa Claus... fucking really!?), the dickhead move of complaining about how readers don't understand that storytelling should be about the journey and not the destination, and how King basically says he only wrote about what Roland finds inside the dark tower because he didn't want to hear people's shit, and, finally, the fact that the series is over, that Roland's quest is finished... kind of. Important bits that are missing from the series: Roland and the last of the gunslingers' final fight against Farson's army (my rage boner throbs epically because we get every single boring detail of Susan and Roland's bullshit love story, but King only mentions the fight with the Good Man in a brief flashback in WOLVES), the period of time when Jake becomes a complete and utter badass (he goes from being a scared kid in THE WASTE LANDS to taking on the Wolves as if his spine were made of iron and his sack roughly the size of a bowling ball, the fate of Ted Brautigan (he of HEARTS IN ATLANTIS). In summation: Yes, there are a lot of craptastic parts about this series, and plenty of unanswered questions, but, other than THE LORD OF THE RINGS, this is the only fantasy series I've ever been able to finish. I've attempted A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE, THE WHEEL OF TIME doorstops, Moorcock's Elric Saga, and THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA (a.k.a The Bible featuring Greek Mythology) and couldn't finish more than two books of each. If nothing else, read the first three books in the Dark Tower series and skip the rest. WIZARD is a complete bore, SONG is incomplete, TOWER is a rushed train wreck, and WOLVES is filled with loads of superfluous information, yet the Dark Tower tale as a whole is a definite five-star read, if for no other reason than my unfaltering love for every character. Some of the best friends I've ever known in life live between the pages of these books, and I miss them already. Say thankya, sai King. ...more Whew, I did it. All the way. Not quitsees, even on the last Coda. So. Much. Happens. Brilliant stuff, Sai King, just brilliant. I feel like I've lived another life. For the record, great ending. It's what the story required. More to come... We as readers tend to value unique stories - imaginative storytelling, one-of-a-kind characters, some unique plot or place or perspective that is completely specific to that story. Give two authors the same basic idea and they'll do two totally different things with it, resulting in two totally different books. The Dark Tower series is a story that literally could only have ever been written by Stephen King, within the exact timeframe in which he wrote it. This becomes more and more evident as t We as readers tend to value unique stories - imaginative storytelling, one-of-a-kind characters, some unique plot or place or perspective that is completely specific to that story. Give two authors the same basic idea and they'll do two totally different things with it, resulting in two totally different books. The Dark Tower series is a story that literally could only have ever been written by Stephen King, within the exact timeframe in which he wrote it. This becomes more and more evident as the books progress. It is, without a doubt, one of the most unique stories I have ever read. And I love everything about it. It takes elements from many different genres (including, but not limited to: fantasy, sci fi, western, apocalyptic, adventure, steampunk, horror, etc.) and mixes them all up - blends them all together - to create a world and a story in which absolutely anything can happen. It's crazy weird, it's a ton of fun, and it's amazing. This book may have my new favorite ending to any series I've read - those last couple of pages are literal perfection, and the only ending this series could've ever had. If you disagree with that, you're wrong. Yes - writing is subjective, we're all entitled to our own opinions, blah blah blah. But I'm sorry. You're just dead wrong. This series and it's characters and it's story may not be for you. But I love Roland and his ka-tet. I love Stephen King. I love what he did with these and all the crazy places he took them. These last few books may have been a bit on the \"too-long\" side but I still think it all fits. This series is just a work of art. ...more This was terrible. If you don't want spoilers, read no further. I really, really hated that Stephen King was a character in his own book. It didn't work. It was a lazy move, and an annoying one. I didn't like that the sixth book introduced King-as-character, and unfortunately for me, he had a much bigger presence in this book. I felt like King (the author, not the character) was fumbling along his way in telling the story. That part of the reason it took so long to get to the Dark Tower was becaus This was terrible. If you don't want spoilers, read no further. I really, really hated that Stephen King was a character in his own book. It didn't work. It was a lazy move, and an annoying one. I didn't like that the sixth book introduced King-as-character, and unfortunately for me, he had a much bigger presence in this book. I felt like King (the author, not the character) was fumbling along his way in telling the story. That part of the reason it took so long to get to the Dark Tower was because King just didn't know how to get there. Much of it was predictable, i.e. the story arc with Mordred. I even knew how he would die. A lot of it was unsatisfying, like the literal and figurative erasing of the Crimson King, after such a buildup. I am a fast reader, but this book took me the better part of two weeks to get through. I could not read very much of it at a time because it was so irritating. But I did, as I wanted to see how it all turned out. I am giving it one star rather than none at all because of the ending. I love/hate how Roland is stuck in the loop. That really rang true. It left me with a bunch of questions -- i.e., will he pull Susannah/Eddie/Jake out again? from their original world, or from different whens? what happens when he finally gets it right? -- but it was satisfying. It felt right, unlike so much of the rest of the book. I only hope that Roland gets it right the next time. ...more 4 a\u00f1os. Eso es lo que he tardado en terminar la monumental saga de King, un viaje delirante y alucin\u00f3geno por la mente del escritor norteamericano en el que confluyen multitud de g\u00e9neros e infinidad de elementos pertenecientes a la cultura popular para crear un universo fascinante, \u00fanico y absolutamente \u00e9pico. La \u00faltima etapa de este largo recorrido ten\u00eda grandes posibilidades de salir mal parada, pero creo que King no solo resuelve con \u00e9xito el descomunal embrollo narrativo que ten\u00eda montado (e 4 a\u00f1os. Eso es lo que he tardado en terminar la monumental saga de King, un viaje delirante y alucin\u00f3geno por la mente del escritor norteamericano en el que confluyen multitud de g\u00e9neros e infinidad de elementos pertenecientes a la cultura popular para crear un universo fascinante, \u00fanico y absolutamente \u00e9pico. La \u00faltima etapa de este largo recorrido ten\u00eda grandes posibilidades de salir mal parada, pero creo que King no solo resuelve con \u00e9xito el descomunal embrollo narrativo que ten\u00eda montado (el complicado componente de metaficci\u00f3n, personajes continuamente entrando y saliendo de escena, separaciones dram\u00e1ticas, reencuentros emotivos y alguna que otra batalla sencillamente memorable), sino que aprovecha una parte significativa de la novela para enredar, si cabe, un poco m\u00e1s la madeja. Aqu\u00ed, al contrario que en Juego de tronos , poco importa si nuestro personaje favorito sobrevive o muere; aqu\u00ed lo realmente crucial es atravesar las puertas de la Torre a cualquier precio y salvar la continuidad de todos los universos que giran en torno a ella. \u00bfLo consigue Roland? El \u00faltimo cap\u00edtulo guarda una tremenda sorpresa al respecto, y a pesar de pol\u00e9mico, creo que King imparte una lecci\u00f3n magistral atrevi\u00e9ndose a escribir el \u00fanico final que podr\u00eda darle sentido a todo lo vivido durante los 7 maravillosos libros de esta saga. Y yo, como lector, no puedo pedir nada m\u00e1s. ...more Los finales son descorazonadores. Final es otra forma de decir adi\u00f3s. Todo lo que no sucedi\u00f3 en los 6 libros anteriores pas\u00f3 ac\u00e1. En este todo se desencadena y concluye; todo adquiere sentido y se explican las mayor\u00edas de las inc\u00f3gnitas que se sembraron a lo largo de toda la saga. Somos ka-tet, uno de muchos. Hemos compartido nuestra agua al igual que hemos compartido nuestras vidas y nuestra b\u00fasqueda. Si uno cayera, no estar\u00e1 perdido, porque somos uno y no olvidaremos, ni siquiera en la muerte Los finales son descorazonadores. Final es otra forma de decir adi\u00f3s. Todo lo que no sucedi\u00f3 en los 6 libros anteriores pas\u00f3 ac\u00e1. En este todo se desencadena y concluye; todo adquiere sentido y se explican las mayor\u00edas de las inc\u00f3gnitas que se sembraron a lo largo de toda la saga. Somos ka-tet, uno de muchos. Hemos compartido nuestra agua al igual que hemos compartido nuestras vidas y nuestra b\u00fasqueda. Si uno cayera, no estar\u00e1 perdido, porque somos uno y no olvidaremos, ni siquiera en la muerte . ...more 6.0 stars. A very satisfying end to one of the best fanasy series ever. As much as the coda may have flown in the face of the typical \"happy ending\" I loved it and think it was a terrific way to go out. Winner: British Fantasy Award for Best Novel (2005) Nominee: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (2005) Nominee: Bram Stoker Nominee for Best Novel (2005) La relectura lo hace aun peor. Shame, shame, shame. I struggled with whether this deserved four or five stars or not. The ending is bittersweet \u2013 after all, isn\u2019t it about the ending since the journey is over? \u2013 so why not mention it upfront? The series is one epic, long, torturous journey. Rarely have I read a quest type novel, and this is certainly the longest series I\u2019ve experienced. No matter how complicated King incorporated a blend of genres, (fantasy, science fiction, mystery, even a small amount of romance), it still remains ultimately a I struggled with whether this deserved four or five stars or not. The ending is bittersweet \u2013 after all, isn\u2019t it about the ending since the journey is over? \u2013 so why not mention it upfront? The series is one epic, long, torturous journey. Rarely have I read a quest type novel, and this is certainly the longest series I\u2019ve experienced. No matter how complicated King incorporated a blend of genres, (fantasy, science fiction, mystery, even a small amount of romance), it still remains ultimately a seek and find quest. As said, the ending is bittersweet and makes one a bit angry but it also makes sense. I think there is definite hope when the horn is raised next. Being careful not to leak spoilers here, hopefully those who\u2019ve read the books know what I\u2019m talking about. I didn\u2019t expect all hearts and roses \u2013 it\u2019s King, for one thing, and the man has the tendency to hammer brutality into his words. This isn\u2019t a happy ever after story and was never promised or meant to be one, but damn, depressing stuff. I cry at the drop of a hat when it comes to books anyway, and this one made me positively weep. Characters got to shine to finish off the tale. Mordred fascinated me, although I could have done without the stomach issues (ew). He\u2019s a villain who stands out as tragic, truly evil, and twisted. Despite gripping villains, showdown scenes kind of sucked. Randall Flagg is especially a letdown. Also King is back into the books, literally, and it feels a little off this time. Maybe part of this is a catharsis from the accident and finishing the series so quickly as a result. King saturates the pages with grim tones and shattering loss. The price of reward is expensive. The ending, as I\u2019ve said, actually makes sense and is an ironic filled touch. I don\u2019t like the very end wrap up for some of the characters though as it feels unreal and forced. When the journey ends Roland is a changed man, nothing else would make sense. If he has changed enough is an answer up to the reader. ...more", "Title": "The Dark Tower"},
