{"Comments": "Caution:- Long review ahead. I finally understand what the word 'tedium' means. Interestingly enough I have neither associated this particular term with books making use of the much revered and equally feared stream-of-consciousness as a narrative device nor with hefty tomes worth more than 1000 pages. But getting through even 1 page of DFW's writing requires a Herculean effort on the reader's part. Wallace commands your undivided attention and let's say if you are demanding the luxury of a split Caution:- Long review ahead. I finally understand what the word 'tedium' means. Interestingly enough I have neither associated this particular term with books making use of the much revered and equally feared stream-of-consciousness as a narrative device nor with hefty tomes worth more than 1000 pages. But getting through even 1 page of DFW's writing requires a Herculean effort on the reader's part. Wallace commands your undivided attention and let's say if you are demanding the luxury of a split second of thinking something unrelated in the middle of a page and then coming back to that same point in a page, resuming reading and achieving your former state of involvement with the story right away, you couldn't be asking for more. Wallace's writing doesn't allow you breaks or breathers. His style is a modified form of stream of consciousness,<---M> one can say</---M>, where the endless stream of interior monologue combines with minutiae of character descriptions, frequent and abrupt digressions and everything else imaginable in excruciating detail. And once you lose the elusive thread connecting all the dots, you are doomed. But even then, reading him is such a whole lot of fun. It's a challenging exercize where all your mental faculties are working at their full potential and strained to the extreme lest they miss out on that one crucial sentence amidst a sea of unnecessary details, that helps you understand what the narrative is about or what Wallace really wants you to know. Mister Squishy My first reactions to Mister Squishy bordered on impatient irritation:- \"Dude, stop showing off! I get that you are some kind of genius to be able to document everything with such painstaking precision.\" \"What in the world is this about anyway?\" \"Lord please make this story end already.\" That I happened to be reading this way past midnight, also fuelled my annoyance to a certain degree. But it's a good thing I plowed on stubbornly refusing to let Wallace get the better of me and put me to sleep.<---F> And finally it all clicked together</---F>. I began to see the point in plodding through a mind-boggling volume of corporate jargon and specifics of everything starting from variations in one particular character's sexual fantasies to the alignment of cakes kept on a tray in a conference room. Mister Squishy is a less-than-flattering commentary on corporate America and accurately highlights the mind-numbing boredom that entails a white-collar, corporate job in the most indirect manner possible. It has an undercurrent of Wallace's typical dry humour running throughout which aids the reader in tiding over some of the ceaseless monotony of the detailing of the most trivial things. I give this 3/5. The Soul Is Not A Smithy This is a pure gem of a short story. But then again you have to wait patiently to peel off all the layering of digressions to get to the core of the story. A young primary school student day-dreams in panels, each one of them described in vivid details, and remains oblivious to a major crisis unfolding before his very eyes in his Civics class. But in retrospect what seems to affect him the most is not the memory of this one terrifying incident (<---B>of his teacher's supposed demonic possession</---B>) but the tragedy of surviving the day-to-day ennui of adult life. I am probably not explaining this well but this short story seemed more like an exercize in story-telling than anything else since its metafictive qualities are way too obvious to be ignored. 3.5/5 I have just one bone to pick with this though - Sanjay Rabindranath is not a correct Indian name. Rabindranath is a name and not a surname(as per my knowledge). And I'm a little disappointed with Wallace for creating another stereotypical Indian character, albeit an unimportant one. (Not EVERY Indian boy is a nerd with glasses who likes nothing better than studying. Humph!) Incarnations of Burned Children This story came as a pleasant shock. It displays Wallace's incredible range as a writer. It is lyrical, agonizing, has some of his most exquisite prose (sans the insane detailing and abhorrent barrage of tough sounding words) and deals with a theme like parenthood which is so not your typical Wallace subject. This is hands down my favorite story of the lot and worth being read and re-read. 5/5 Another Pioneer A wonderful parable rife with symbolism and allusions to human foibles, but half concealed behind a mountain of Latin phrases and incomprehensible words which put my Kindle dictionary to shame. I am going to make a list of the words here just to give the prospective reader an idea - thanatophilic puericratic oneirically epitatic peripeteiac paenistic thanatotic phlogistive extrorse .....and so on (oh look even GR spellcheck thinks these words do not exist) 4/5 Good Old Neon A semi (or wholly?) autobiographical story which reminded me of Wallace's suicide again and again. I loved the protagonist's voice (even though he is kind of a douche, really) and not even once did his ramblings bother me here, which goes to show how deftly Wallace handled the narration. The ending left me spell-bound. 5/5 <+++>Oblivion</+++> A brilliant short story revolving around the dynamics of human relationships which appear to be normal on the surface but reveal complexities just beneath it and inter-familial troubles. But again this contains a generous sprinkling of unheard of words which are precisely there to make you feel a little stupid. But I almost did not mind. This one has a bit of a cliched ending. 4/5 The Suffering Channel By far the longest short story of the lot and this could also qualify as a novella. From what I could glean from this, it appears to be DFW's attempt at parodying the inner workings of media houses and revealing that thin line separating 'actual' news from pure bullshit being relayed under the pseudonym of news. Also you can take the word 'shit' literally here. (Don't get what I mean? Read the damn book.) 4/5 (I have left out reviewing one story here because that did not make much of an impression on me.) After finishing this book, I am experiencing a mad urge to laugh loudly at the burst of pride I felt for my own vocabulary at one point of time. Reading DFW is a tiresome experience but it is also immensely rewarding and I simply cannot wait to learn more from him now. P.S.:- A big thank you to Garima for linking me to DFW's now stuff-of-legends Kenyon commencement address. A reading of that speech full of amazing new insights helped dispel some of the negative sentiments I seemed to have developed in the earlier stage of my acquaintance with Wallace's writing. ...more Oh boy. Oh man, do I have a lot to say about this here book. I can't even begin to tackle it as a whole entity, so I'm going to do a review of each story, unless I get tired and have to smoosh. Also: I am the kind of person who listens to all my music on shuffle, which means I clearly have no respect for the artist's conception of a complete work. Consequently I read these stories totally out of order, and will review them the same way. \"The Suffering Channel\" and \"Mister Squishy\" I think these a Oh boy. Oh man, do I have a lot to say about this here book. I can't even begin to tackle it as a whole entity, so I'm going to do a review of each story, unless I get tired and have to smoosh. Also: I am the kind of person who listens to all my music on shuffle, which means I clearly have no respect for the artist's conception of a complete work. Consequently I read these stories totally out of order, and will review them the same way. \"The Suffering Channel\" and \"Mister Squishy\" I think these are examples of DFW at nearly his best. They're certainly typifications of what I think of when I think of him. These long twisty stories with a fairly simple (though unique) plot, constellated with exhaustively depicted characters\u2014to the point, sometimes, that it seems like the sort of pre-writing exercise you're taught to do in a creative writing class, where you jot down every single thing you can think of about your characters, from their appearance to their education to their mannerisms to their innermost fears and desires. Of course, those exercises are typically meant to be reference points only, a tool to help the writer really know his characters, so that they can be rendered more real on the page. But pff , DFW doesn't\u2014didn't, oh god, pain in my heart\u2014follow rules like that. Another rule he doesn't follow? The normal flow and rhythm of a story. Even pomo or trickerish authors tend to do things like group similar ideas or moments into the same paragraph, but not DFW. No, his stories (or his stories of the type exemplified by these two) have dense paragraphs that cover everything at once, with the interior monologue of one character tripping over a physical description of another character which is then pushed up next to the action the first was contemplating making a few pages ago. I want to make a metaphor about balls (ha), like juggling, but it's not like juggling, it's more like shuffling, like each part of the story is one suit in a deck, and he just swishes them all together so that everything is on top of something else, and you have to, um, count fucking cards or something, or anyway work really hard to keep each running narrative in your head so you know whom he means each time he says \"she\" because, following the logical sentence structure, it does not refer to the person it ought to refer to. Gosh, did I manage to make that sentence as confusing as the thing I'm trying to explain? Maybe I should have said that DFW at his best claws his way into your brain and makes you think and write and sometimes even talk like him, which is amazing and thrilling and a little bit awful. I should also have said that \"The Suffering Channel\" is a brilliant excuse to have a whole slew of different characters have long, involved conversations about shit and shitting and playing with shit and caring for shit and preserving shit and making art out of shit\u2014all while maintaining his aura of brilliance and scholarly aplomb. And I know there's nothing new under the sun etc etc, but I would bet a large amount of money that no one ever, in the history of the world, has used the phrase \"intracunnilingual flatus vignette\" before. These two stories each get high B+, and for a lesser author would be the top of his achievements. (See \"The Soul Is Not a Smithy\" and \"Good Old Neon\" for why DFW, of course, can do even better.) \"Incarnations of Burned Children\" As MJ promised in the comments below, this story is fist-chewingly great. And devastating. In fact, this might be DFW at his best, but that's hard to claim, since it's so unlike what he usually does. It's short, it's too the point, it's sharply poetic, it's emotionally raw, it's essentially free of character description or background or intellectualizing. It's a short sharp stunning burst of beautiful horror. \"Another Pioneer\" This story was too much on the over-intellectualization. It's kind of what you'd expect from DFW telling you a fable, I guess, reinterpreted through his ridiculous brain and spat out by a weird narrator, shot through with obtuse Latin phrases and rendered much less moving by being made so so writerly. Stories like this are why the haters hate DFW. \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\" and \"<+++>Oblivion</+++>\" These stories can suck a dick. Lest you think I am just a mindless DFW fluffer, I want to stress that he can absolutely be just insufferable at times, which is why I always give his books the \"too smart for their own good\" tag. \"Oblivion\" in particular just made me furious, written as it is in this incredibly stilted style, with all kinds of \"words\" put in unnecessarily \"quotation marks,\" as if the narrator were some kind of alien or moron who had never been in polite society. Which he wasn't. It was just a story about a dude who was having weird trouble with his wife, a story that should, in fact, have been a really interesting and engaging, involving sleep studies and intra-familial weirdness and strange manifestations of psychological trouble between long-married people after their kids leave home and the many, many layers of thought and self-doubt and self-assurance we use to fool ourselves and those we love. But he just fucking buried it all under this stupid conceit where everything was overexplained and mummified by weird constructions and stilted language and it was just awful. Ditto for \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature.\" Fail. \"The Soul Is Not a Smithy\" Spectacular. Hands down the best story in the book, and the reason why DFW is a consummate motherfucking genius. ***I'm still not done with this review, dammit. I have obvs a lot more to say about that one, and I haven't even gotten to the utterly wrecking \"Good Old Neon.\" Why can't I just spend my entire life writing book reviews? Can someone pay me a million dollars for that please?? ...more I don\u2019t think collections serve Foster Wallace well: it seems to me his stories would read better as stand-alones on some thoroughly modern internet webshite, with accompanying artwork or explanatory hyperlinks, rather than modishly festering on some fading acid paper alongside all the other fuddy-duddies. (PS Abacus, your paper is cheap and lousy). Case in point is \u2018Mister Squishy,\u2019 which seems to cry out for its own accompanying glossary, appended addenda and so on, but sits uneasily on the pa I don\u2019t think collections serve Foster Wallace well: it seems to me his stories would read better as stand-alones on some thoroughly modern internet webshite, with accompanying artwork or explanatory hyperlinks, rather than modishly festering on some fading acid paper alongside all the other fuddy-duddies. (PS Abacus, your paper is cheap and lousy). Case in point is \u2018Mister Squishy,\u2019 which seems to cry out for its own accompanying glossary, appended addenda and so on, but sits uneasily on the page in all its hypermodern dazzle. Nevertheless, the gang\u2019s all here, from the disquieting hometown horror of \u2018The Soul is Not a Smithy\u2019 to the absolutely staggeringly wonderful exploration of a mind locked in a recursive self-critical philosophy, \u2018Good Old Neon,\u2019 to the blithering incomprehension of \u2018Another Pioneer\u2019 which I did not understand AT ALL. \u2018The Suffering Channel\u2019 is a brilliant novella about a pretentious style mag based in the World Trade Centre a few months before impact, and explores the peddling of suffering and faecal matter under the guise of an acceptable counterculture. Like the other pieces in this collection, it mimics the language and tone of its world with beyond pedantic perfection, without losing the detached overlord tone that keeps Wallace\u2019s style distinctive. It is telling that the sentence that made me quiver the most was the unexpectedly direct insertion, on a one-word line of dialogue, of the simple statement: \u201cShe had ten weeks to live.\u201d Oh God, I think my bones done froze themselves. How does he DO that? The other pieces here are excellent, including the dramatic rush of \u2018Incarnations of Burned Children\u2019 which is a story it seems about narrative perspective, the short and endearingly odd \u2018Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature,\u2019 and the title piece is a bamboozling voice experiment using a form of dreamlike language where the narrator is perpetually indecisive about word choice, and where words and their meanings are continually being challenged by infernal quote marks. The end result almost seems like a slightly canny self-parody or coyly embedded meta-comment, but who knows? It\u2019s a difficult story to get through (along with the opening piece) but perseverance will be rewarded. This collection will frustrate you and tantalise you in equal measure, but don\u2019t worry: you\u2019ll feel it in your nerve endings. ...more From my favorite story, \"Good Old Neon\": \"What goes on inside is just too fast and huge and all interconnected for words to do more than barely sketch the outlines of at most one tiny little part of it at any given instant.\" Oblivion is not as consistently solid as his first short stories collection Girl With Curious Hair , but hands down is amazing nonetheless. Only slight complaint: The very first story is a bit difficult as it's loaded with corporate marketing, PR and advertising jargon, but it From my favorite story, \"Good Old Neon\": \"What goes on inside is just too fast and huge and all interconnected for words to do more than barely sketch the outlines of at most one tiny little part of it at any given instant.\" Oblivion is not as consistently solid as his first short stories collection Girl With Curious Hair , but hands down is amazing nonetheless. Only slight complaint: The very first story is a bit difficult as it's loaded with corporate marketing, PR and advertising jargon, but it still unfolds eventually as being brilliant nonetheless. According to an interview Wallace spent quite a long time writing that one. My complaint is that it was not the best decision to place this story as the first in the collection. I have to wonder how many people were put off by it and then didn't get to the rest of the stories which are wonderful, top-notch DFW. \"Incarnations of Burned Children\" is a mere 2.5 pages long but an example of perfectly condensed intensity. \"The Soul Is Not A Smithy\" is tremendously suspenseful and melancholy. Also contains some of the most emotionally pointed descriptions of the mind of a young child playing mental games with themselves due to elementary school-daze boredom. And the finale, \"The Suffering Channel\", is a wonderful example of the well-balanced surrealism, and the emotional and moral realism that is brought out when playing with the twin forces of sadness and hilarity that Wallace is widely celebrated for. It involves a man who shits perfect sculptures and the glossy magazine journalist who must cover the story and spin it appropriately. My second favorite story is \"Another Pioneer.\" It's just great. That's all I'll say about it for now. ...more If nothing else, this book really made me think. Maybe even over-think. This book invites it. There is a lot to mull over in each of these stories, and DFW is very rarely direct about anything, preferring to leave clues along the way. I think it\u2019s interesting that each story has its own specific vocabulary and/or verbal tics from Mister Squishy's ad agency lingo to Oblivion\u2019s strange use of latin/ pace /'air-quotes' to Suffering Channel\u2019s magazine-speak; it\u2019s almost as if the characters in one sto If nothing else, this book really made me think. Maybe even over-think. This book invites it. There is a lot to mull over in each of these stories, and DFW is very rarely direct about anything, preferring to leave clues along the way. I think it\u2019s interesting that each story has its own specific vocabulary and/or verbal tics from Mister Squishy's ad agency lingo to Oblivion\u2019s strange use of latin/ pace /'air-quotes' to Suffering Channel\u2019s magazine-speak; it\u2019s almost as if the characters in one story would find it impossible to cross over and talk with the characters of any other story--they live in a modern/urban world that is also strangely provincial, where everybody is cut off from everybody else because of the level of specialization and in-your-own-headedness. The only other thing I can say about this book as a collection is that DFW is very much concerned with the demoralizing aspects of modern society--from corporate culture\u2019s obliteration of the personal (Mr. Squishy) to the reality-show aspect of pop culture and the vulture-like commercialization of every inch of genuine human feeling (Suffering Channel). What isn\u2019t always consistent is how he sees a way out of this bleak view. In some stories I see brief moments of light, of transcendence despite the conditions, but mostly I feel oppressed and saddened by it. Not that DFW really has to provide solutions, but I wonder if he really did provide glimpses of \u2018the answer\u2019 but that it is so hidden in the complexities of each story that I have not been able to see it. These stories are filled with so much minutiae that it seems entirely too easy to just be buried by that alone, which is also similar to the lives many of these characters lead. They don\u2019t reflect often because they are not allowed to. They are drowning in their own set of strange, often trivial particulars, and given no time to reflect. My apologies ahead of time for the amount of detail (on a story-by-story basis) that I\u2019ve included. It goes almost without saying that SPOILERS is the name of the game from here on out, so consider yourself warned. Here goes: Mister Squishy 5/5: this story totally won me over. The way DFW progresses his story so organically as to be unnoticeable and the way he understands so clearly the sadness (and inherently, the dark humor also) of the inner workings of the modern corporate machine just devastates me. I have a friend who tells me of her days at work which reminds me of some of the passages in here (p44-45 in my hardback copy) and make me doubly glad that I work for the public library, and not the private sector. Just this whole thing about turning numbers around and not really doing anything concrete but fudging it so that it appears to be what the client wants... but work is work, right? no, it has consequences on a personal level: we see this corporate mentality affect the main character\u2019s inner psyche: his current feeling of helplessness and disillusionment is contrasted with his younger self\u2019s feeling of becoming someone important and making a change; this all really resonates but by resonates I mean devastates me. The story\u2019s conclusion was so ambiguous that I still wasn\u2019t sure what I was to make of certain things #1. who is the first person \u201cI\u201d character that pops up only twice that I can remember (once in a footnote) and #2 what exactly was the man scaling the skyscraper doing, (although later he inflates with a mask on, so I am guessing maybe he is the mr. squishy mascot? with an m-16?) and #3 the stuff about the two different types of poison that can be injected into the cakes... I suspect all of these things have something to do with manipulating the faciliators, but I\u2019m not sure exactly the details, which is fine by me, but really makes me wonder if I\u2019m a particularly dim reader or if it was meant to be ambiguous. The Soul is Not a Smithy 4/5: have you ever tried to read a short story and not think of it as a short story, but as a novel? It usually doesn\u2019t work, because a short story is like an arrow traveling to its destination, very one-minded, distilling a moment in time... it\u2019s pretty easy to tell from a few pages whether it\u2019s from a short story or from a novel, usually, just by the way it is written and how the narrative unfolds. But DFW manages to make stories that read like novels, with endless digressions and parallel elements working at the same time. Also novel-like is the mutliple level of meanings you can put onto it. On the literal level it is a horrific event that happened in a classroom. But what is the story really about? One thing that was funny/odd was how shocked I became at the story within the story: the one the narrator was making up in his daydreams. I found myself being horrified by it and then I caught myself thinking \u201cit\u2019s okay, it\u2019s just a story this kid daydreamed, it\u2019s not even real.\u201d then I caught myself thinking \u201cwait a minute, NONE of this is real, even this kid is made up, in a story by DFW\u201d. It was a very subtle way to be meta, I think, and one of the few times when some kinda \u2018meta\u2019 device by an author didn\u2019t feel heavy handed, (though I\u2019m not even sure if it\u2019s a device, as that implies intention, whereas here it just feels like something weird I felt when I read it) partly because it arrives so organically. So on one level, I think this story is about the idea of fictions... this daydream and the movie ( The Exorcist , interesting choice considering the idea that the substitute teacher in the real story seems to be possessed) happening side by side, and later: the narrator\u2019s Kafka-esque nightmares about adult life based on his father\u2019s ennui. Secondly, I think the story is about adult life more than about a child\u2019s life, as the narrator is already grown up and is retelling it from memory: also the details about the father and the parents in the daydream provide such a complete picture of adult frustration, so that the incomprehensible event of the substitute teacher\u2019s behavior (even though it is never explained or given the empathy of a backstory into the substitute teacher\u2019s inner life) seems to be totally understandable by conjecture. I feel like DFW is constantly revolving around the theme that modern life, with all its conveniences, makes the practical problems of being alive and staying alive increasingly easy, but makes feeling alive increasingly difficult. Emotionally, spiritually, we are demoralized, made to act like machines, our passions, individuality, quirks ignored or pushed to the background as distractions or, worse, undesirable traits. That said, I did have a small problem with this story in that I had a hard time believing a 9 year old boy, however observant he is about his father\u2019s somber behavior at home, can come up with such a Kafka-esque vision of bureaucracy without ever having visited his father\u2019s workplace or having any frame of reference in the adult world. The terror of this world being something completely foreign to children (I believe) makes it seem all the more out of place, and because the story of the father is so central to the big message of the story, I felt it was less subtle, less organic than I expected it to be, especially since the first story was developed so organically. Then again, it really is a small flaw, not even a flaw in the story perhaps, but maybe a flaw in my ability to believe in the power of the subconscious mind of a 9 year old. Like any good novel, this short story leaves me with questions: 1. what is this story\u2019s relationship to the future grown-up adult lives of the pupils, referenced throughout, particularly the armed services 2. why does DFW choose to end on a less-than-climactic passage, essentially about a school play, was it to make you feel like things are going back to normal in the school? 3. or was it to slyly name-drop Ruth Simmons in the last paragraph thus making you wonder if the daydream was real or not; also, wtf? this seems like a cheap move... Incarnations of Burned Children 3/5: very short, intense; escalating language; made me breathe faster. Another Pioneer 3/5: In the beginning you have art that mirrored reality, taking as its goal to reproduce likenesses in a literal sense. Science also believed in absolute answers, with Newton\u2019s formulas supposedly being able to be drawn out into infinity to predict anything so far as we had the formula and the computational power. But ah, Modernism comes along and now instead of straight answers we have questions, we have doubt, we have art that tries to attack the viewer\u2019s own assumptions. We have discursive rants (a la DFW). We have stories with ambiguous endings. Likewise in science we know that there are things we cannot know. We know that an electron can seemingly be at two places at the same time. Chaos theory tells us that it is impossible to predict things past a certain level. Is this story an allegory for modernism? It\u2019s a fun allegory, and it was enjoyable beyond an intellectual exercise. But it didn\u2019t go far beyond that enjoyable-ness into a kind of emotional connection as some of the other stories in this collection do. Good Old Neon 2/5: This story didn\u2019t work for me, mostly because I found the voice annoying (and perhaps it was intentionally so). But it didn\u2019t help that I\u2019ve thought most of these same thoughts before, so it made me annoyed with myself (or that part of myself), most of all. I think everyone probably has these thoughts to some level, i.e. am I a fraud? It comes out of not only life being hard but also out of our increasingly web 2.0 sharing your life/everything is a performance/appearances count more than what\u2019s actually there/what should I write in the ABOUT ME section of my profile?/oh, i\u2019m gonna give this book 4 stars so everyone will think I \u2018get\u2019 DFW but then I\u2019m gonna say I hate people who jump on the DFW bandwagon therefore people will think I\u2019m smarter than the average DFW fanboy. I really don\u2019t think like this as often as the narrator of the story, but there is an element of it that is unavoidable for me, being an innate overthinker living in the year 2011. I find that thinking about it just makes me more crazy though, it\u2019s SO CIRCULAR. So should I think about it more, in the hopes of figuring out a way out of it? The whole problem, though, is overthinking, so thinking about overthinking is only going to compound the problem. The opposite problem: ignoring it, isn\u2019t going to work either because then it could come out unexpectedly and devastate you. Perhaps the answer is to acknowledge that it\u2019s true, that appearances are a huge part of your life, and that despite this, it does not make you a complete fraud, and that everybody feels like a fraud, and that perhaps just keeping up appearances will somehow make the act itself genuine, not completely genuine (what is?), but something within the doing or the intending to do. You just have to trust yourself, that you are capable of being genuine despite what any of the crazy thoughts in your head lead you to believe; it comes down to self esteem. I\u2019m not sure how much this applies to anyone else, especially for a case like the narrator in this story, who seems to be concerned with appearances to an exponentially scary degree (it seemed a little overexagerated). Another thing: this story doesn\u2019t seem to go anywhere, the problem is defined, and then it is defined some more, etc. etc. until he kills himself. I feel like I could\u2019ve written this story, given the nature of the narrator\u2019s problem and how I\u2019ve thought about all this before. It didn\u2019t really provide any new insight for me. As for the meta quality at the end, I\u2019m not sure what to think, other than maybe it was a stab at providing hope at the end of the story: that hope being that some brilliant writer out there named David Wallace (if he hadn\u2019t killed himself yet) would be capable of supreme empathy, at a level which makes it able for him to inhabit the mind of someone hopeless and see things from that bleak perspective=that there is still genuine empathy out in the world. But perhaps it is DFW showing us how empathetic he is that is the problem, perhaps it is DFW\u2019s own wish to convince us, the readers, of how empathetic he is that is a mirror to the narrator\u2019s own problems, and perhaps this is why DFW ended up killing himself in the end also. I don\u2019t really believe this, (the thinking in this story is too simplistic for DFW to have followed himself when he killed himself, and also, I don\u2019t believe he would write this story if it was really himself, it seems too personal) but this is the kind of conclusion overthinking leads to. Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature 2/5: I\u2019m not sure what this story is about. I might have to read it again. It seems like he is doing what he does in other stories like Mister Squishy where he alternates between several different storylines within the same paragraph, so that the current sentence may have nothing to do with the last one. But whereas the other stories made sense, this strategy seems to lead to confusion in this particular case. I did, however, find the mother whose face was plastic surgeried into a constant state of shock to be both hilarious and somewhat poignant. Oblivion 2/5: wha? really? I thought DFW was \u2018above\u2019 the whole \u2018it-was-all-a-dream\u2019 sham \u2018ending\u2019 so popular with Creative Writing 101 students or perhaps he thought this was \u2018acceptable\u2019 in this case because the \u2018story\u2019 was explicitly about sleep, so the conceit/form was justified by how it folded back into the \u2018content\u2019 of the story, but no, just no. I thought about the possible \u2018excuses\u2019 that would make this shit-move alright but it still didn\u2019t work for me, it was awful and quite tacky. The story before the shit-ending was alright although at times its tedium and repetitiveness reminded me of a less funny and more \u2018boring\u2019 Bernhard. I wonder if DFW read Bernhard or what he thought of him. That asshole\u2019s influence was far-reaching, man. The Suffering Channel 3.5/5: Perhaps it was appropriate that, while I was reading this story in my backyard one sunny day, I was suddenly shat on by a bird. The shit hit my left shoulder and it was the first time I had ever been bird-shat on. This story is about shit, but beyond that, it is about (I think) art, commercialization of art, suffering (of course), and spectacle... the spectacle of art and the spectacle of suffering, both. It is also interesting that the story was set in the WTC a few months before 9/11. It\u2019s almost like that Chekhov saying about the gun in the first act... You can see the shadows of the planes looming over this story, but it is never explicitly written into the story, just implied. The last line of this story (and also of this book) should warrant further attention. Let\u2019s set the scene here first. They are trying to film an \u2018artist\u2019 while he shits. They, being the media (for all intents and purposes). One camera is on his face and one is coming up from under him to show his shit as it emerges (he is a shit-artist, in that shit comes out of him fully formed as sculptural art). Furthermore, the artist is set up so that he will be watching the live-feed of his own shit as it comes out, hopefully in the form of Winged Victory of Samothrace . Here is the sentence: There\u2019s some eleventh hour complication involving the ground level camera and the problem of keeping the commode\u2019s special monitor out of its upward shot, since video capture of a camera\u2019s own monitor causes what is known in the industry as feedback glare--the artist in such a case would see, not his own emergent Victory , but a searing and amorphous light. There is so much packed in here, so much... dare I say it: Symbolism! Strangely enough, DFW uses symbolism, but it is so fucked up you\u2019re not sure what it represents and how it works together exactly. We have the artist caught between these two, in-essence, mirrors. We have the artist\u2019s work which is either shit or a masterpiece (Victory!). Or both! We have a feedback loop between the camera and the monitor, which is essentially a not-so-veiled reference to self-reference. Self-reference being both a writing trick/device DFW (the artist, in this case) uses often as well as the basis of our whole conception of ourselves ( I Am a Strange Loop ). The former is sometimes a cynical, self-defeating, downward spiral (as in the story \u2018Good Old Neon\u2019 in this collection) whereas the latter is often seen as a searing and amorphous light known as consciousness. ...more )(^*&^%$*^#$$)*($*(%*(_Q_^*#%&^! Oblivion - consigned to, by some class act who deleted the pdf and the accompanying seven reviews and 103 ratings of Good Old Neon without the simple foresight to MERGE said pdf listing with the final collection (and for those of you who don't think it was sufficient as a standalone check out the M ighty J umbuck's review of this listing) of join-the-dots-as-stories by DFW. Read no further if you've read already (with apologies to the appreciated commenters w )(^*&^%$*^#$$)*($*(%*(_Q_^*#%&^! Oblivion - consigned to, by some class act who deleted the pdf and the accompanying seven reviews and 103 ratings of Good Old Neon without the simple foresight to MERGE said pdf listing with the final collection (and for those of you who don't think it was sufficient as a standalone check out the M ighty J umbuck's review of this listing) of join-the-dots-as-stories by DFW. Read no further if you've read already (with apologies to the appreciated commenters who rest in the dustbin of moronic efficiency): First, the reality that you haven\u2019t amounted to anything, and that you won\u2019t amount to anything. The simple logic based on analysing the world and your place in it, what you lack that is required to make an impact upon it, that leads to this realisation that you are a vessel not of unfulfilled dreams, but unattainable aspirations arising from a misinformed sense of your own self, your own capabilities. What you want to be, what you would like to imagine yourself to be, what you in millisecond fits of reverie lie to yourself about being, and what you are, equal all that which never moves beyond the mundane, no matter the craving for credit, the addiction to acceptance, the relishing of recognition. Second, the knowledge that you are a coward, and worse, a hypocrite. That you know of the iniquities that pervade the planet, of the injustices that plague the poor, and you bleat banalities like weed your own lawn before mowing the neighbour\u2019s and poverty is relative and reduce, re-use, and re-cycle and only bite off what can be chewed and caring is sharing to excuse yourself from any action that might alter the privileged status quo of your own existence or re-dress the global imbalance between the haves and the have-nots\u2014much less effort to be an almost-have than a deliberate have-not. Third, the realisation that neither philosophy nor fear, love nor logic, reason nor reaction provides sufficient impetus to continue the farce of the quotidian, that the search for definitive meaning bears no fruit, that existence is nothing more than the animated collision and collusion of attracted atoms in a particular, momentary array, irrespective of whether by external design or internal happenstance. That the overwhelming sense of staleness, of weariness, of having exhausted the rationale not to break the bonds of those atoms and scatter these in the cosmic wind, is the natural result of that reality, that knowledge, that realisation. What remains is less a choice, more an implacable fact, the freedom to act. With this, you consider, having seen the suffering created by those who depart and experienced by those who remain, how you can ameliorate grief and even exculpate guilt. You prepare documents, make transfers, ensure a semblance of stability, you create an unfolding fabrication to explain your disappearance which you hope will protect your beloved child, just entering high-school, from the imagined effects the actuality of your death might have. You consider whether to leave a letter for your spouse, or perhaps a video, a momento, an attempt to detail how you always believed that you could thwart the death drive by loving and being in love, by finding, according to that hoary old romantic folly, the one person with whom to spend the rest of your life. That the rest of your life was shorter than the length suggested by the emotional contract you signed was as much a surprise to you as it will be to that person, discovering first via credit card statement the hospital bill for a procedure undertaken in The Netherlands, when you were to have visited a friend in Rome, and the subsequent timed email with a link to a website about reviews of books. ...more For we die every day; oblivion thrives Not on dry thighbones but on blood-ripe lives, And our best yesterdays are now foul piles Of crumpled names, phone numbers and foxed files. - from Nabokov's Pale Fire Okay! So here \u2019s some music to listen to while you read this review :) But it\u2019s not really a review, as always. I have this picture in my head of what a review would constitute, and it\u2019s not this. Also, in the interest of improving my own writing, all \u201cI think\u201ds are removed from the below (\u2026I think) b For we die every day; oblivion thrives Not on dry thighbones but on blood-ripe lives, And our best yesterdays are now foul piles Of crumpled names, phone numbers and foxed files. - from Nabokov's Pale Fire Okay! So here \u2019s some music to listen to while you read this review :) But it\u2019s not really a review, as always. I have this picture in my head of what a review would constitute, and it\u2019s not this. Also, in the interest of improving my own writing, all \u201cI think\u201ds are removed from the below (\u2026I think) but are obvs implied. Anyways, The Field\u2019s music is repetitious, precise, and quite boring to listen to at first, near repulsively so maybe. But if you trust in it and lend it your ears, you can enter a kind of lucid trance. This principle is one DFW was aware of, the humanity within expanded repetitious blandness. Chekhovian grey language; stories told \u201dthe way one person relates to another the most important things in his life, slowly and yet without a break, in a slightly subdued voice.\" In Oblivion we find the universal fury of Notes from Underground, the omnipresent tedium of A Boring Story, but thrown under a steamroller, exclamation points removed, freshened up for a modern American audience. \u201cThe poet\u2019s job is not to tell you what happened, but what happens: not what did take place, but the kind of thing that always does take place.\u201d But why sit and read such sad bullshit? That\u2019s what I thought when I first picked this up last summer. And to be fair, I hadn\u2019t been in the white collar working world for very long, but now I am all-too accustomed to days of meetings and people that leave you near mesmerised by how bored the days would make you if you weren\u2019t so mesmerised by how boring they are! Have you ever stared at someone\u2019s stupid face and thought, \u2018Of all the many things we could be doing with our time, you chose to use it for this, so relentlessly so that I now feel paralysed\u2019, but it\u2019s kinda funny, too, because, oh my god, how is this happening? How are such levels of boredom possible? So I left this book last summer confused, then I came back after reading a bit and looked at the puzzle with new eyes, and now I can tell you why we should sit and read such sad bullshit. The reason horror films are enjoyed by teens is it's the worst thing they can think of: monsters under beds; violent unlikely death. High class literature + cinema+ art shows maturer folk that real horror is a life of pointless tedium, the grind of which will kill you before you meet the grave. It could happen to anyone after any significant degree of pure meaninglessness, which life is all too happy to provide.\u00a0What will drive you mad is not a life in which so much tedium occurs, as this is near inevitable: what will drive you mad is if nobody talks about it but you know everyone knows it. That\u2019s why books like this exist. Books that make you slap the pages with the back of your hand and say, out loud, alone: \u2018Yes! Thank you!\u2019 On top of that, there is this lucid trance idea I mentioned: the sheer volume of details Wallace could find in an \u201cempty\u201d room, how he could use those details to tell you what they revealed about the people associated with it, reveals to the reader the tools they need to cope with people and scenarios apparently devoid of content. I devour all art related to this whole tedium schtick because I fear it so much and am so increasingly immersed in it in life. Simulated reality is the best we get to make us feel better by telling us \"Even if your worst fears are real, you'll see it's not so bad\" before, or if, it happens one day (comfort disturbed) or it will shock you awake again (disturb comfortable). It keeps everything in flux. If I understand the principle of the book Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature (a title of a story within this book), it is similar to when Kundera said that the novelist's job is to show the reader that life is a question (can't find exact quote). It's been a big learning of mine that a writer's job is not necessarily to tell readers something they didn't already know. The hackiest writers will think they need to teach you something as if there was anything about human nature left to teach (is there?) when astute observations will do. The best writers show the reader things they already knew in a new way, as Wallace consistently does by recognising his job as refreshing the power of aphorisms and discouraging cynicism about their cliched nature by doing everything in his power to convince you they're more than bromides. Like a teenager watching the Evil Dead remake (pretty damn good!), we observe the horrors we are presented with through literature as if they are a reality. DFW is a decidedly American writer, and these stories are as much an indictment of American culture as explorations of universal human truths. Is Oblivion easy to read? If you push through the wall of repulsion, yes, it is: it becomes its own addiction. But I didn\u2019t manage the first time and had to toss it aside, thinking it without value, as there is a stark difference in Wallace\u2019s writing from this book onwards. There are NO jokes: I\u2019ll stand my ground on that. There are few big words. There are many details and even sparser plots as he pushes closer to a truer representation of life. And I think there is debt to be paid by that other favourite writer of mine whom I mention nearly every review now: Charlie Kaufman, whose masterpiece I won\u2019t write the name of another fucking time evokes a similar first-time repulsion, and contains a therapist whose shoes are so tight they hurt her, just as all of DFW\u2019s therapists make cages or circles with their hands, or have eating disorders or repressed sexualities. Therapists who need to therapise themselves (this is SO true of some therapists I know- jeezo! I wouldn\u2019t trust them to operate heavy machinery any time of day.) I went to a therapist once but she was super pregnant so I didn\u2019t want to tell her sad stuff in case the baby heard me- how unfair would that be? (True, I likely would have found some other excuse!) It\u2019s exactly the same as me moving to Oslo now, and all the people in work who have lived there before are like \u201cOslo\u2019s not that great\u201d and I\u2019m all \u201cDude, would you tell me something nice about this place since I\u2019m committed to going there?\u201d That\u2019s what that therapist\u2019s baby would have said to me RE: life if he/she could even communicate, you know? So disadvantaged. And also, as I so convincingly played the part of well-together chap, therapist gave me clean bill (I\u2019m about as okay as people generally get now btw) Shame Beckett isn\u2019t alive any more to look at your form and go \u2018You\u2019re on earth: there\u2019s no cure for that.\u2019 Maybe I\u2019m being flippant and I\u2019m about to digress some, but that\u2019s always seemed to be a taboo about therapy or anti-depressants or any mental health issue, is that the things mental health problems get you hung up on are typically the helplessness in the face of the unknowable universal questions about whether or not there is any meaning to life, living in the face of knowing you\u2019re going to die and so on, and that was apparent to me that one time I went to a therapist as I get the impression it was for Wallace (it certainly is for his characters) is that notion of \u2018Well, how much of my worries do you really expect to alleviate, here? Exactly what of what I worry about can anyone prevent from being true, and how much are you really able to interpret what I\u2019m telling you any more than I can anyway?\u2019 That\u2019s the permanent sour taste in the mouths of many people who seek psychiatric help I imagine, is, well, you stopped me thinking about it, but for how long? Therapists love to therapise, but do they do it well? The psychology-adjacent folk I know throw mental health conditions at the day-to-day people in my anecdotes like a game of Jeopardy: \u201cSo my boss is not a very talkative guy-\u201c \u201cWHAT IS ASPERGER\u2019S FOR 500 LEO\u201d (I\u2019ve never seen Jeopardy also doubt Asperger's counts as a \"mental health condition\"... somehow I feel you'll get what I'm going for, though!) Like, when I was an ESL teacher, I was like, you guys could do this with a book: you don\u2019t need me. But what students needed in that case was more the routine of a person checking up on them to force them to study, as I imagine therapists can be a breathing space for people, like, yes, you are here because you want something fixed, so let\u2019s spend some time reflecting on it. But I was cheap, though: that\u2019s the difference\u2026 I don\u2019t think it\u2019s gonna make you sad to think that there\u2019s some things about life you\u2019re never gonna be okay with; rather, expecting to be okay with them despite any indication you should is what will lead to bigger disappointment, a paradox of acknowledging disappointment in order to feel more satisfied. The best art (ie. therapy) says the following: look at this; I don't know the answer, but you're not alone. That\u2019s all I need from it. But I need it a lot and in as many forms as are available! Ebert quote: \u201cAn honest bookstore would post the following sign above its 'self-help' section: 'For true self-help, please visit our philosophy, literature, history and science sections, find yourself a good book, read it, and think about it.\u201d Some notes on the stories (well, two of them): First story: Mr Squishy. Teaches you how to read it and rewards your attention with badass corporate slamming. You leave it feeling like you have the tools to defeat boredom (and the rest of the stories!) Again, first time I tried this, I wasn't ready. Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature. Overlapping thoughts as in The Pale King section 2. (TPK was really a bunch more short stories, and the best Oblivion-like story is the novella in the middle, which could well have been part of this set.) Some conclusions: Generally: none of these stories will leave you satisfied. It\u2019s the Hamlet-esque yawn-that-won\u2019t-yawn-properly feeling you\u2019ll be left with instead, which you will accept with reluctance because of its verisimilitude. These are stories about facets of the human condition that are inextricable no matter our efforts. The incapturability of all thought, inability to recognise which thoughts are important etc. A life that feels blown open, without Coupland-esque Safety net-ism. You're on your own and there's no guarantee you'll spend your years well. This fear being true of anyone, advertisers are really honing in on it to promise you individualism via capitalism, a fantasy they know you will always nurture because you need it to survive. In all the ways that really matter, it doesn't appear that we're individual in the slightest. How could we possibly be? There have been 100 billion of us: our ideas are not that great. You'll notice as I say this that this isn't the medium at all for it: art is. All the toughest things are best said through art. Otherwise it sounds didactic and reductive and is met with a kind of \u201cyeah, I know\u201d as it isn\u2019t a fully expanded argument, and this is big hard truths we\u2019re talking here: Oblivion, The Pale King, Something Happened, the stories of Chekhov, Oblomov apparently (cheers Tracy!) Wonderboy (whatever that is- I looked up the Norsk copy of Oblivion and it was compared this Norsk novel), Notes from Underground, Wilder's The Apartment\u2026 It is Wallace's opinion that the soul is not a smithy; that there is no Proustian fountain of youth obtainable by having new eyes, as what our eyes see of the exterior is but a pinhole, and those other eyes we desire are but pinholes in our pinhole, and so we lack so much companionship almost by the definition of being human, a Heisenbergian uncertainty principle of love. Mummy can't keep you safe and she never could. And in the face of that, you are so, so brave. And in the face of that, use your fucking pinhole! And in the face of that, fuck it; let's dance. To what? If you followed my instruction, you're listening to it right now! In life we are alone, but today, we dance as one!! Additional unstitchable thoughts: DFW loved cinema. Said to Charlie Rose he wouldn\u2019t be happy writing a screenplay because someone could come in and change it. But as the Brief Interviews film showed, Wallace\u2019s power is in the written word (this should be self-evident: man can that guy write!) Enjoy here what I imagine would be a single line of DFW screenplay dialogue from a 5-hour film about a man and his wife having a conversation about how many times he takes his boat out, and how much this disturbs them both, also their toddler\u2019s eyebrows are constantly raised for some reason. Pop culture is catching up to the importance of the universal incurables eg. through Wallace-fan-and-also-genius Tina Fey, whose latest series Kimmy Schmidt is pointedly dark beneath the glaze of jokes. My cultural tastes summed up in one pic: (Pic of Oblivion and a Burger King meal. Pretend it uploaded properly) ...more 2.5 Se\u00f1or Blandito: No me gust\u00f3 en absoluto. Creo que es el relato m\u00e1s pesado, insufrible y lento que he le\u00eddo en mi vida. Admiro much\u00edsimo la capacidad que ten\u00eda Wallace para analizar y describir hasta la m\u00e1s \u00ednfima minucia; sin embargo, fue tanto lo que desmembr\u00f3 y analiz\u00f3 que mi voluntad para seguir pasando la p\u00e1gina qued\u00f3 gravemente herida. Pude terminarlo, pero el da\u00f1o ya estaba hecho. No se lo recomiendo a nadie: un hast\u00edo interminable. (1.5/5). El alma no es una forja : Me gust\u00f3. Es interesa 2.5 Se\u00f1or Blandito: No me gust\u00f3 en absoluto. Creo que es el relato m\u00e1s pesado, insufrible y lento que he le\u00eddo en mi vida. Admiro much\u00edsimo la capacidad que ten\u00eda Wallace para analizar y describir hasta la m\u00e1s \u00ednfima minucia; sin embargo, fue tanto lo que desmembr\u00f3 y analiz\u00f3 que mi voluntad para seguir pasando la p\u00e1gina qued\u00f3 gravemente herida. Pude terminarlo, pero el da\u00f1o ya estaba hecho. No se lo recomiendo a nadie: un hast\u00edo interminable. (1.5/5). El alma no es una forja : Me gust\u00f3. Es interesante el tema que trat\u00f3 el autor en este cuento: el miedo on\u00edrico; los tormentos internos y su poder dentro de nosotros. Principalmente, Wallace se centr\u00f3 en el temor a la rutina y al camino gris que nos transporta hacia la triste monoton\u00eda de la vida. (3/5) Encarnaciones de ni\u00f1os quemados: Es de los mejores de este libro. Asimismo, es el m\u00e1s corto. Muy recomendable. (3.5/5) Otro pionero: Es un cuento borgiano: se nota ostensiblemente la influencia de Borges. Tiene una inusitada cantidad de palabras que ignoro, sin embargo no lleg\u00f3 al punto de afectar mi comprensi\u00f3n del texto. A pesar de no tener di\u00e1logo, se lee r\u00e1pido y engancha al instante. Me gust\u00f3. (3/5). El ne\u00f3n de siempre: El mejor relato de este libro. Excelente. Es de esa clase de historias que dejan una cicatriz en nosotros; no se olvidan con la \u00faltima oraci\u00f3n le\u00edda. Se concentra en el suicidio y en la m\u00e1scara que todos nos ponemos para agradar a los dem\u00e1s. El final le rob\u00f3 varios latidos a mi coraz\u00f3n. (4.5/5) La paradoja de la fraudulencia consist\u00eda en que cuanto m\u00e1s tiempo y esfuerzo invert\u00edas en resultar impresionante o atractivo a los dem\u00e1s, menos impresionante o atractivo te sent\u00edas por dentro. La filosof\u00eda y el espejo de la naturaleza: No me gust\u00f3. Un cuento sin sentido, del tipo de los que desaparecen de nuestras vidas a medida que vamos avanzando en su lectura. No le encontr\u00e9 nada de magia a este trabajo. Algo bueno que puedo rescatar es que no es tedioso. (2/5) Extinci\u00f3n: Interesante, simplemente interesante. Wallace retrat\u00f3 a un matrimonio como cualquier otro, con sus sendos problemas relacionales. Al principio no sab\u00eda bien de qu\u00e9 iba, no obstante, conforme pasaban las p\u00e1ginas la luz se hac\u00eda presente. El final es bastante clich\u00e9. (3/5). El canal del sufrimiento: Un hombre que hace esculturas con mierda. (2/5). ...more Lo que est\u00e1 claro es que los libros de <---A>David Foster Wallace</---A>, o te gustan o no te gustan. Personalmente, prefiero cuando le da m\u00e1s importancia al fondo de la historia, que a la forma de contarla. Cuando no me gusta es cuando experimenta. En este sentido, 'Extinci\u00f3n' es el libro que m\u00e1s me ha gustado por ahora de DFW. La caracter\u00edstica m\u00e1s destacable de la escritura de DFW, no es su calidad literaria, que la tiene y mucha, ni las historias que cuenta, que son magn\u00edficas, todo un prodigio de imagina Lo que est\u00e1 claro es que los libros de David Foster Wallace, o te gustan o no te gustan. Personalmente, prefiero cuando le da m\u00e1s importancia al fondo de la historia, que a la forma de contarla. Cuando no me gusta es cuando experimenta. En este sentido, 'Extinci\u00f3n' es el libro que m\u00e1s me ha gustado por ahora de DFW. La caracter\u00edstica m\u00e1s destacable de la escritura de DFW, no es su calidad literaria, que la tiene y mucha, ni las historias que cuenta, que son magn\u00edficas, todo un prodigio de imaginaci\u00f3n, agudeza y erudici\u00f3n; lo que destaca por encima de todo es su visi\u00f3n del mundo, su inteligencia a la hora de abrirnos los ojos a la realidad que nos rodea. Su ojo, su mente, es como un bistur\u00ed con el cual disecciona todo lo que cae bajo su punto de observaci\u00f3n. DFW narra como si tuviera un zoom, est\u00e1 cont\u00e1ndote una historia, para a continuaci\u00f3n pasar a otro sub-tema, y a continuaci\u00f3n a otro sub-sub-tema, todo ello con la m\u00e1xima minuciosidad. No se trata de historias dentro de historias, como hace Paul Auster. Lo que desea hacer DFW es contarnos la historia abarcando todos los puntos de vista y con todos los detalles posibles, utilizando para ello estad\u00edsticas, Historia, matem\u00e1ticas, f\u00edsica, etc., pero siempre con unas dosis de observaci\u00f3n extraordinarias. Creo que DFW sacar\u00eda un buen relato hasta del prospecto de un medicamento. Esta manera de narrar tan singular puede dejarte exhausto en algunos momentos (desde luego, no se trata de una lectura de metro), pero merece la pena no rendirse y seguir leyendo porque al acabar de leer el relato te das cuenta de la profundidad de DFW como escritor y persona. Su prosa puede parecer as\u00e9ptica hasta cierto punto, sobre todo cuando entra en algunos detalles, pero es s\u00f3lo una sensaci\u00f3n superficial. A un nivel m\u00e1s profundo llegas a conocer tan \u00edntimamente a los personajes que deseas seguir acompa\u00f1\u00e1ndolos en sus tribulaciones. Otro detalle a destacar de las historias de DFW es que no tienen ni principio ni final. Al t\u00e9rmino de sus relatos, da la impresi\u00f3n de que prodr\u00eda seguir y seguir ad infinitum . DFW quer\u00eda abarcar la vida entera de los personajes. Quiz\u00e1 me guste DFW como tambi\u00e9n me gusta la m\u00fasica minimalista, con la que pienso tiene similitudes. Una composici\u00f3n de Steve Reich, Philip Glass, Wim Mertens o Michael Nyman, tiene la misma estructura que un relato de DFW. Empieza con fuerza, no posee aparentemente melod\u00eda y termina abruptamente, pero te mantiene en un estado hipn\u00f3tico durante unos minutos. La prosa de DFW es igual, con esos p\u00e1rrafos interminables, al estilo de Marcel Proust o Thomas Bernhard, que te mantienen pegado a sus p\u00e1ginas, hasta que de repente se acaban, casi como si fuesen una partitura porque poseen una musicalidad propia. Estos son los ocho relatos contenidos en 'Extinci\u00f3n': - Se\u00f1os Blandito. (***) Un Grupo de Discusi\u00f3n est\u00e1 realizando unos test para el lanzamiento de un nuevo producto, un pastelido de nombre \"\u00a1Delitos!\" Se trata de una terrible cr\u00edtica a los medios publicitarios. El relato m\u00e1s duro de leer del libro, con el que hay que armarse de paciencia porque cuando llevas le\u00eddas unas p\u00e1ginas, todo encaja. - El alma no es una forja. (*****) El protagonista nos cuenta el trauma que sufrieron tanto \u00e9l como sus compa\u00f1eros en la clase de Educaci\u00f3n C\u00edvica cuando eran ni\u00f1os, al mismo tiempo que recuerda las fantas\u00edas que se inventaba en clase, y c\u00f3mo trata de entender la vida que llev\u00f3 su padre durante esos a\u00f1os. Un relato maravilloso, una obra maestra. S\u00f3lo por este cuento merece la pena leer este libro. - Encarnaciones de ni\u00f1os quemados. (****) En apenas tres p\u00e1ginas, el autor nos muestra un hecho puntual y trascendente en la vida de una familia. - Otro pionero. (****) El protagonista recuerda una historia que le cont\u00f3 un amigo de un amigo que iba en un vuelo y que escuch\u00f3 por casualidad. Se trata de una f\u00e1bula sobre un ni\u00f1o que naci\u00f3 en una tribu paleol\u00edtica capaz de responder cualquier pregunta. - El ne\u00f3n de siempre. (*****) El protagonista nos quiere explicar como todo su vida es un fraude. Otra muestra de la genialidad de DFW. - La filosof\u00eda y el espejo de la naturaleza. (***) La madre del protagonista, el cual acaba de salir de prisi\u00f3n, est\u00e1 en juicios con unos cirujanos pl\u00e1sticos que le destrozaron la cara. Relato de humor negro con muy mala leche. - Extinci\u00f3n. (****) Historia de un matrimonio, contada desde el punto de vista del marido, que pasa por un mal momento debido a los supuestos ronquidos de \u00e9l. Gran relato, cuyo final me dej\u00f3 francamente perturbado. - El canal del sufrimiento. (***) Skip Atwater anda tras un personaje que podr\u00eda darle el siguiente art\u00edculo en la revista para la que trabaja. Se trata de un \"escultor\" que \"realiza\" unas \"figuritas\" bastante curiosas. Otra cr\u00edtica feroz, esta vez a la prensa amarillista y de cotilleo, pero tambi\u00e9n al mundo del arte, porque \u00bfqui\u00e9n tiene la potestad para decidir lo que es o no es arte? No cabe duda de que el sentido del humor de DFW era un poco especial. ...more David Foster Wallace inspires many complaints -- he is overly self-conscious, he abuses the footnote, he is at times impenetrable -- but here happily, none of these are especially true. Even the post-modern playfulness is reigned in somewhat. Unlike the layered interviews and broken portraits of Brief Interviews with Hideous Men , these are more properly stories (or even novellas, perhaps, as many are quite lengthy), winding and carefully plotted, and fully invested in the narrative. Only a singl David Foster Wallace inspires many complaints -- he is overly self-conscious, he abuses the footnote, he is at times impenetrable -- but here happily, none of these are especially true. Even the post-modern playfulness is reigned in somewhat. Unlike the layered interviews and broken portraits of Brief Interviews with Hideous Men , these are more properly stories (or even novellas, perhaps, as many are quite lengthy), winding and carefully plotted, and fully invested in the narrative. Only a single selection was notable mostly for style and structure (the frivolous but hilarious \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\", actually one of my favorites for its concise insanity), and most managed to grapple with enough serious content to put most entire novels to shame. My personal favorite, \"The Soul Is Not a Smithy\", took several scathing routes to the heart of an unwell America, through a civics class gone wrong just before Vietnam, while \"The Suffering Channel\" spiraled endlessly around and through the combined fascination-terror-revulsion-obsession which we which we regard the human body, ours and those of others. At his best, as in those pieces, every seemingly disparate detail points unerringly to the whole. I'm going to have to work backwards through Wallace's other short story collection, I think. Infinite Jest is perhaps his culminating work, but he's abundantly more digestible in these smaller doses. ...more I racconti di Oblio , molto diversi per stile e per lunghezza (si va dalle quattro pagine di Incarnazioni di bambini bruciati a brevi romanzi di un centinaio di pagine), sembrano avere come denominatore comune la disillusione e la rassegnazione dell\u2019et\u00e0 adulta. Se ne La scopa del sistema c\u2019\u00e8 l\u2019onnipotenza giovanile di chi pensa di poter superare tutti problemi e di poter provare infinite sperimentazioni; se in Infinite Jest c\u2019\u00e8 la consapevolezza di chi di chi ha dovuto lottare e soffrire per giun I racconti di Oblio , molto diversi per stile e per lunghezza (si va dalle quattro pagine di Incarnazioni di bambini bruciati a brevi romanzi di un centinaio di pagine), sembrano avere come denominatore comune la disillusione e la rassegnazione dell\u2019et\u00e0 adulta. Se ne La scopa del sistema c\u2019\u00e8 l\u2019onnipotenza giovanile di chi pensa di poter superare tutti problemi e di poter provare infinite sperimentazioni; se in Infinite Jest c\u2019\u00e8 la consapevolezza di chi di chi ha dovuto lottare e soffrire per giungere a un equilibrio psichico di cui si riconosce la precariet\u00e0, in Oblio l'elemento caratterizzante \u00e8 la disillusione della vita adulta, la consapevolezza che alcuni obiettivi non verranno mai raggiunti e quelli che si riesce a raggiungere si trasformano spesso in noiosa routine perdendo tutta la loro attrattiva. L\u2019oppressione della quotidianit\u00e0 \u00e8 resa ancora pi\u00f9 gravosa dalla certezza di essere un elemento insignificante di un sistema che non tiene in nessuna considerazione i bisogni e i desideri dei singoli individui. Il rapporto di coppia appare come l\u2019unica ancora di salvezza a chi non riesce a superare la cortina di solitudine all\u2019interno della quale si \u00e8 rifugiato ( Mr. Squishy ); per altri, invece, \u00e8 solo una delle tante relazioni interpersonali in cui si indossa la maschera della desiderabilit\u00e0 sociale per ottenere l\u2019approvazione degli altri ( Caro vecchio neon ). La cultura, i sistemi sociali ed economici ingabbiano le persone dentro personaggi che recitano la loro parte a uso e consumo di un pubblico fatto di altri personaggi che a loro volta recitano un copione che non si sono scelti; non \u00e8 possibile essere veramente se stessi anche a causa del tempo e del linguaggio cos\u00ec come li conosciamo. L\u2019autenticit\u00e0 \u00e8 possibile solo con la morte che ci libera dai vincoli della logica e della sequenzialit\u00e0 (( Caro vecchio neon ) e ci rende parte di tutte le cose ( Incarnazioni di bambini bruciati ). La quotidianit\u00e0 \u00e8 cos\u00ec gravosa che le persone, pur di dimenticarsene, finiscono per confondere i piani di realt\u00e0 e a non distinguere pi\u00f9 la veglia dal sonno, in un circolo di angoscia in cui precipita anche il lettore che non comprende pi\u00f9 cosa \u00e8 l\u2019uno e cosa \u00e8 l\u2019altra ( Oblio ). L\u2019arte ( Il canale del dolore ) e la filosofia ( Un altro pioniere ), nonostante le loro potenzialit\u00e0, non sfuggono alle regole ferree del marketing e della commercializzazione che mirano alla soddisfazione dei bisogni immediati (bisogni che vengono debitamente creati e manipolati, illudendo le persone che sono libere di scegliere e di trasgredire.) I racconti non sono semplici nella loro articolazione, alcuni ( Mr. Squishy, L\u2019anima non \u00e8 una fucina, La filosofia e lo specchio della natura ) hanno pi\u00f9 linee narrative che procedono parallele senza mai incontrarsi pur essendo parte integrante della trama, con una parte del racconto che riporta gli eventi (la conduzione di un focus group per le indagini di marketing; un insegnante che, nel bel mezzo di una lezione di educazione civica, si estranea e comincia a scrivere ripetutamente sulla lavagna Uccidili tutti; il viaggio in autobus di una donna sfigurata dagli interventi di chirurgia plastica) e con un\u2019altra, apparentemente slegata dalla prima (un misterioso personaggio che si arrampica su un grattacielo polarizzando l\u2019attenzione dei passanti e degli impiegati negli uffici sottostanti; la sfrenata fantasia di un alunno che si perde nei suoi pensieri dando vita a una storia angosciante di perdite e morte; la descrizione di alcune specie di ragni che un uomo porta sempre con s\u00e9 in una valigia) che per\u00f2 contribuisce in maniera determinante al grado di tensione emotiva dell\u2019intera vicenda narrata. Ogni racconto presenta una molteplicit\u00e0 di elementi, una ridondanza di descrizioni e di pensieri che rendono complicata la ricerca di un senso profondo, al punto poi da chiedersi se tale senso ci sia effettivamente o se piuttosto si tratti di razionalizzazioni del lettore che cerca di rendere sensato ci\u00f2 che non lo \u00e8. \u00c8 difficile scrivere di D. F. Wallace, un autore controverso sin dal suo primo romanzo e che il suicidio ha trasformato per molti in un\u2019icona da venerare o da disprezzare. A me piace la sua capacit\u00e0 di descrivere gli stati emotivi e quegli intricati percorsi mentali che chiamiamo pensiero; questa sua capacit\u00e0 \u00e8 anche il suo punto debole: si perde nei rivoli delle emozioni e dei pensieri sino a diventare a volte ripetitivo e inconsistente; i periodi lunghi, le minuziose descrizioni, i dettagli del contesto sono paludi e pantani che spingono a una lettura frettolosa o a un abbandono pi\u00f9 o meno definitivo. Un antidoto al desiderio di fuga \u00e8 una lettura tranquilla, cui si dedica tutto il tempo necessario, senza scadenze e senza alcuna frenesia di capire dove l\u2019autore vuole andare a parare; una lettura che si sospende, e poi si riprende, quando pensieri ed emozioni si trasformano in buchi neri che risucchiano tutto il piacere di trascorrere del tempo con David Foster Wallace e si inizia a pensare che il suicidio era per lui l\u2019unica strada percorribile. ...more Author's note: review and rating both subject to change. I've already bumped it a star; the second will depend on what a rereading of the title story brings. You know, I hate to say this about my favorite author, but a lot of this book is just kind of... boring. \"The Suffering Channel\" and \"Oblivion\" are the two problem children here, taking up about 130 pages of space; they desperately need the human touch Wallace applies to his distinct brand of experimental fiction. I get that they're transiti Author's note: review and rating both subject to change. I've already bumped it a star; the second will depend on what a rereading of the title story brings. You know, I hate to say this about my favorite author, but a lot of this book is just kind of... boring. \"The Suffering Channel\" and \"Oblivion\" are the two problem children here, taking up about 130 pages of space; they desperately need the human touch Wallace applies to his distinct brand of experimental fiction. I get that they're transitional pieces, and that they show him moving into the style he would use to more enlightening ends during the early drafts of The Pale King . However, since he can't find anything fascinating about the details (which he, oddly enough, manages on some of this collection's better pieces - the unfairly maligned \"Mister Squishy\" and the three I'm about to bring up nail it), they just end up being slogs so painfully dull that I end up losing the thread of the story. Furthermore, since I don't really connect with the characters in either of these pieces, their more postmodern touches just come off as too clever-clever for my liking. Luckily, this is still a David Foster Wallace book, which guarantees that it'll have a few truly fantastic moments. The meat of this is found in three stories. First off, the neo-existentialist \"Good Old Neon\" is a total classic. I don't quite agree with the common line of thought that holds it up as his best story ever (I'd definitely take the second \"Devil is a Busy Man,\" the one about diverting money, over this, and a few other pieces from the [much better, I'll add] Brief Interviews with Hideous Men at least challenge it, for instance \"Signifying Nothing\" and \"Octet\"), but the psychological depth of it is astounding, and the metafictional twist he throws in at the end stuns. \"The Soul is Not a Smithy\" offers a repeat performance when it comes to Wallace getting into characters' heads, being an examination of a boy whose mind wanders away in class even as a substitute teacher holds them hostage. It's hard to go wrong with such a cool concept, but even when you take that out, the story still excels - check out how the boy's circumstances and the movies he concocts in his head. The last of the classics is \"Another Pioneer,\" about a child in a stone age society who can answer any question put to him; it's given to us thirdhand, which is always something I find interesting, and it's a fascinating study of how myths perpetuate themselves. \"Mr. Squishy\" is pretty good too - not in the same class of the three classics, but the way he contrasts the suspense of the climbing figure with the bored, wandering minds of the corporate meeting is classic Wallace. And I can really tell that he used ideas from both this and \"The Soul is Not a Smithy\" in the Pale King; the English major in me is going crazy over that. Still, this is definitely the weakest and most disappointing Wallace book I've read yet. It has three brilliant long-form stories, one pretty good one, and two painfully dull ones. As for the two shorter pieces, they really represent the dichotomy at work here: while \"Incarnations of Burned Children\" is full of motion, suspense, and terror, \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\" simply tries to mash too many elements together for eight pages. It's at least worth getting from the library, but don't make this your first time around with DFW. ...more I've only got a few pages left of the last story in this collection and the whole thing has just been so excruciatingly beautiful I am almost palpably sad to see its end approach. That the guy whose mind from whence this sprung had to want to die so bad is just the worst the worst the worst. Done. Buh. So sad. Mi DFW favorito hasta la fecha. Antes de leer 'Extinci\u00f3n', David Foster Wallace me gustaba: escrib\u00eda bien, era postmoderno, original y divertido, pero sus cuentos eran s\u00f3lo an\u00e9cdotas, algunas m\u00e1s incisivas que otras, pero an\u00e9cdotas al fin y al cabo. En cambio 'Extinci\u00f3n' va mucho m\u00e1s all\u00e1. Sus cuentos alcanzan una profundidad impresionante y, detr\u00e1s de la an\u00e9cdota, nos acaba hablando de cosas universales que nos afectan a todos, b\u00e1sicamente acaba hablando del sufrimiento, del horror, de la trage Mi DFW favorito hasta la fecha. Antes de leer 'Extinci\u00f3n', David Foster Wallace me gustaba: escrib\u00eda bien, era postmoderno, original y divertido, pero sus cuentos eran s\u00f3lo an\u00e9cdotas, algunas m\u00e1s incisivas que otras, pero an\u00e9cdotas al fin y al cabo. En cambio 'Extinci\u00f3n' va mucho m\u00e1s all\u00e1. Sus cuentos alcanzan una profundidad impresionante y, detr\u00e1s de la an\u00e9cdota, nos acaba hablando de cosas universales que nos afectan a todos, b\u00e1sicamente acaba hablando del sufrimiento, del horror, de la tragedia, de la muerte. Y no entiendo como este libro ha tenido muchas cr\u00edticas que han dicho que era \"m\u00e1s de lo mismo\", cuando en realidad es todo lo contrario. Wallace ha madurado. Y mucho. Aunque tambi\u00e9n sigue siendo el mismo de siempre: postmoderno, original y divertido. David, nadie de hoy en d\u00eda sabe captar el dolor como t\u00fa. Nadie de hoy en d\u00eda es capaz de, al acabar un cuento, dejarme sin palabras y con un nudo en el est\u00f3mago. Literalmente. \u00a1Oh, David, c\u00f3mo te quiero! Los relatos 'Extinci\u00f3n', 'El ne\u00f3n de siempre' y 'El alma no es una forja' es de lo mejor que he le\u00eddo en mi vida y de lo que m\u00e1s profundo me ha llegado. A\u00fan as\u00ed, DFW nunca es f\u00e1cil de leer: es tan inteligente que a veces te pierdes y no escribe como la gente escribe, ni siquiera escribe como la gente habla, sino que escribe como la gente piensa. Como lector te pide algo de paciencia, pero al final la recompensa es maravillosa. Una vez has entrado en DFW quedas atrapada y sabes seguro que no te decepcionar\u00e1 nunca. ...more I get a little depressed after reading DFW books because I realize how far my writing skills fall short. This book is insanely dense and show-offy in the best sense (like when a magician draws attention to himself to fool you...then leaves you breathless after the bangs and flashes). This is a book of short stories, though some should technically be called novellas, each with totally implausible plots...until Wallace pulls it off. Faulknerian sentences were sort of his schtick in Infinite Jest-- I get a little depressed after reading DFW books because I realize how far my writing skills fall short. This book is insanely dense and show-offy in the best sense (like when a magician draws attention to himself to fool you...then leaves you breathless after the bangs and flashes). This is a book of short stories, though some should technically be called novellas, each with totally implausible plots...until Wallace pulls it off. Faulknerian sentences were sort of his schtick in Infinite Jest--the ones that went on for like twenty pages--and the stories in Oblivion have plenty. But the stories are all surprising readable, exposing the worlds of advertising research, sleep disorders, super self-consciousness, and the glossies industry. Wallace writes to learn about the world rather than to tell everyone what they should think about it, and he's really good. What an asshole. ...more \"\u00bfSab\u00e9is? \u00bfNunca tuvisteis cuando erais peque\u00f1as ese rollo en el que pensabais en vuestra mierda como en vuestro beb\u00e9 y a veces quer\u00edais abrazarla y hablar con ella y casi llorabais y os sent\u00edais culpables por tirar de la cadena, y a veces pensabais en vuestra mierda dentro de una especie de carrito de beb\u00e9 con un gorrito y un biber\u00f3n, y a veces os quedabais mirando en el cuarto de ba\u00f1o y os desped\u00edais de ella con la mano, adioo\u00f3s, mientras se iba, y luego sent\u00edais un vac\u00edo?\" Oblivion--it is just the perfect title to unify these strange and maddening gems. You could really lose yourself in this book, indefinitely, if you're not careful. Recommended to readers of Postmodernism and Quiet Horror. After I finished reading it a few years ago, this book did not make me sad. Or at least, it made me sad in the way that we like art to make us sad; where we allow ourselves to mistake sadness for poignancy, peaking a flashlight into our dark bits through someone else's work. Now? I don't know how I could re-read this and not feel incredibly saddened. DFW was my favorite living author, just a raging cyclone of genius tearing his way through the short story and laughing (literally?) off the idea o After I finished reading it a few years ago, this book did not make me sad. Or at least, it made me sad in the way that we like art to make us sad; where we allow ourselves to mistake sadness for poignancy, peaking a flashlight into our dark bits through someone else's work. Now? I don't know how I could re-read this and not feel incredibly saddened. DFW was my favorite living author, just a raging cyclone of genius tearing his way through the short story and laughing (literally?) off the idea of the novel with 1200ish pages of infinite jesting. It always seems like suicide should change the way we read an authors' work, though I don't really know that I believe that. The list of incredible artists who pull a Felo de se is pretty long, and I'll note that Virginia Woolf, who is also one of my favorite authors, went this route as well, though she was older than DFW (59 as opposed to 46, if that makes a difference). So maybe in 20 years it will make less of a difference than it seems like it does or should now ... but for right now, there's still an odd sting in considering these stories. Certainly \"Good Old Neon\", which is told uncomfortably close to the view of the author, and recounts the suicide of someone who considered himself a fraud and drove into a bridge abutment, rings more sharply. It contains the line, \"The reality is that dying isn't bad, but it takes forever.\" DFW does not often use plain & unadorned sentences, and when he does, it is with the sense of having dug them up from layers and layers of compacted silt and earth. Pretty much everything in this collection is terrific: the opening story (\"Mister Squishy\") is actually the most trying, in terms of long-winded DFW-isms (exasperating run-on sentences, asides that seem to go nowhere, slow burns that may or may not lead to anything), but the effect of reading it to its last lines was, for me, one of extreme vertigo. The story \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\" is abjectly terrifying, in my opinion -- that's all I'll say about it. The title story, meanwhile, has a curious trap to it: It almost absolutely NEEDS to be read twice to be fully comprehended, however after reading it the first time you sense that reading it the second time will be like deliberately pounding yourself in the knuckles with a hammer. Then, you read it again anyway, because you have to know. I also cannot speak highly enough of the story that closes the book (and, in a very morbid way, DFW's fiction career), which contains a last line (I am fond of last lines, I can't help it) that widens one's eyes like saucers to read. Spoiler alert, of sorts, if you want to save it: \"...the artist in such a case would see, not his own emergent Victory, but a searing and amorphous light.\" But my two favorite stories are, by far, \"The Soul Is Not a Smithy\" and \"Another Pioneer.\" In the former, we are told intertwining narratives about an autistic/savant (there's no accurate diagnosis for the narrator, though he does strongly recall Hal from Infinite Jest) child's recollection, told by himself as a normal-seeming adult, of a horrific classroom event from his youth & the strange imagination-land he had invented to go along with it; this is coupled with his recollections of his father. No one splices realities like DFW, and he is at home with his subject matter here: how fathers and sons understand each other is his domain, as examined through the lens of the preternaturally neurotic & talented. It is so incredibly imaginative that we forget that it must be achingly autobiographical -- but anyway, I've always deplored autobiographical readings of works, even from authors who make it their trade. Plus the story makes me cry every time I read it, a fine piece of evidence against those who have argued DFW's work is purely an intellectual exercise. While \"Soul is Not a Smithy\" is probably my emotional favorite, \"Another Pioneer\" may be one of the most profoundly mystical things DFW has written -- like Castaneda by way of Kafka and Borges by way of Derrida, or some combination thereof. I don't want to say much about the plot here, it's too odd to describe, but if we play the \"if you only read one story from this collection\" game ... well, fuck that, let's not play that game, I don't like it. So: \"Another Pioneer\" has, in a very clever way, the narrative structure of \"Heart of Darkness\": a story within a story that is overheard by someone else (in this case on an airplane, instead of a boat) and then relayed to the reader. These layers & distances highlight what DFW has always understood intrinsically in his writing: that a body is as big as it can be drawn; that a tribe in the jungle represents the totality of a single human consciousness, as do the Tennis Academy and halfway house in Infinite Jest, and the rebellions and triumphs of those bodies are an exacting reflection/refraction of any individual human soul. Wham! -- mystical. Also: the story here is that all borders are fuzzy, flammable, and imperfect; they polarize when we need them open and open when we try to close ranks. One reckons this leaves the soul perpetually vulnerable as we saw back and forth between these extremes; DFW charts the motives & velocities of these motions, back and forth over our most vulnerable places, way past rawness, with a skill that is quite literally dizzying. This sense of vertigo is like a drug experience, I only know of a few authors who can do it to the point as to render psychotropics absolutely unnecessary -- Georges Bataille in \"the Impossible\" comes to mind, so does Woolf's \"To the Lighthouse\", and so does DFW at his best, which he is at in this collection. I don't mean to say that they're the only psychotropic-feeling authors, and of course it's a relative experience & everyone has their own mind-blowing books: but I'm not just talking about psychedelic writing, even in the way a champion like Borges can do it -- I'm talking about language so dense and involved that if we follow it closely enough, it physically pulls us in several directions at once, before uncoiling & releasing us into something else entirely. I realize how hyperbolic my praise is in a lot of the reviews I've posted here. It's because, for the most part, I only review the stuff I have an insane & fierce love for, so phrases like \"devastating\" and \"harrowing\" and \"best most favorite ever!!!\" see a lot of employment. A friend teased me (fairly) that basically all my reviews are 4 or 5 stars. That possibly makes it hard to communicate when something is truly vital. I will say that this is a fairly difficult DFW book, especially as an introduction, although of course I could be wrong. Traditionally, 'Girl With Curious Hair' is probably the best introduction to DFW, at least to his fiction. (Curiously, I have found that some people know DFW entirely through his non-fiction, of which I haven't read nearly as much: but if nothing else, I can heartily recommend his essay on why Kafka is funny). At any rate, I adore 'Infinite Jest', & of course 'Brief Interviews With Hideous Men' --- but it is worth noting that 'Oblivion', in the most devastating & harrowing sense of the term, lives up to its title. ...more These stories are exhilarating but demanding. His ironic use of corporatese reminds me of George Saunders. From the density of his prose, and from his use of metanarrative, I guessed a few lines in that DFW is a fan of Borges, a hunch that was confirmed by Google. I love the way DFW's mind works, and the nerd in me even enjoyed the formula, written in symbolic logic, that was inserted into one story, a mathematical proof of the narrator's despair. The best stories: \"The Soul is Not a Smithy\", ab These stories are exhilarating but demanding. His ironic use of corporatese reminds me of George Saunders. From the density of his prose, and from his use of metanarrative, I guessed a few lines in that DFW is a fan of Borges, a hunch that was confirmed by Google. I love the way DFW's mind works, and the nerd in me even enjoyed the formula, written in symbolic logic, that was inserted into one story, a mathematical proof of the narrator's despair. The best stories: \"The Soul is Not a Smithy\", about a school shooting that prompts Proustian flashbacks, and \"Another Pioneer\" a mock anthropological study overheard on a plane. \"Good Old Neon\", about a depressive who's undergoing analysis, just made me sad. ...more I am not a huge fan of short stories (as those of you who have read other reviews will note). I am especially not a fan of short stories that take a while to get into; I prefer reading one long story (even a 1000 page book) to several small stories. That said, this volume does hold together thematically. Several of the stories have quintessentailly \"perfect\" people who are really depressed underneath; several of them end at the point at which the action would normally occur; several characters de I am not a huge fan of short stories (as those of you who have read other reviews will note). I am especially not a fan of short stories that take a while to get into; I prefer reading one long story (even a 1000 page book) to several small stories. That said, this volume does hold together thematically. Several of the stories have quintessentailly \"perfect\" people who are really depressed underneath; several of them end at the point at which the action would normally occur; several characters desire distinction as in \"large percentage of bright young men and women locate the impetus behind their career choice in the belief that they are fundamentally different from the common run of man, unique and in certain crucial ways superior\"; they are also very focused on paradoxes; there are also threads that remind me of his other short stories, such as the movie/film/art analysis that comes across as very Lynchian and the selfish perspective of us all. The sentence structure (long, run-ons with many asides) and the use of brand names was also reminiscent of Infinite Jest. Mister Squishy: This was a story about a focus group with lots of snide commentary about advertising and commercialism. As a side plot, there is a potential terrorist climbing up a building; but the plot is never resolved in that the focus group does not begin and there is never any resolution with the building climber. My favorite quotes from this story were: \"the product is never going to have as important a place in a TFG's minds as it did in the Client's. Advertising is not voodoo....what was important to consumers was, always and invariably, themselves.\" The Soul is Not a Smithy: This was another story in which the action never quite occurs. We know that the teacher goes off the wall and that the SWAT team storms the classroom and kills him, but it is unclear whether or not Mr. Johnson actually does anything threatening to the children other than write KILL THEM on the board. I did like his commentary about children and daydreaming: \"What teachers and the administration in that era never seemed to see was that the mental work of what they called daydreaming often required more effort and concentration than it would have taken simply to listen in class. Laziness is not the issue. It is just not the work dictated by the administration.\" Incarnations of Burned Children: This might have been my favorite story (not because it was shortest); I liked the distance from the characters \"the mommy\" and \"the daddy\" instead of giving them names. Once again the action ended at a pivotal point; we are not completely sure how damaged the child is from the burning diaper (story indicates that he goes on living, but not whether or not he marries or has kids of his own). Another Pioneer: This story takes place on a plane (another repeating theme throughout these stories); our narrator is eavesdropping and misses some details. Ultimately, though, this is similar to the story Good Old Neon because the child is a fraud. He is competent and capable until he starts to question his own value and then things start to slip. It is an interesting take on the self-fulfilling prophesy as well as thematically relevant about inner insecurities. I also liked the use of the socratic method as an ironic self-questioning. The line that the warring chief gives to the child is my favorite quote: \"You, child, who are so gifted and sagacious and wise: Is it possible that you have not realized the extent to which these primitive villagers have exaggerated your gifts, have transformed you into something you know too well you are not? Surely you have seen that they so revere you precisely because they themselves are too unwise to see your limitations? How long before they, too, see what you have seen when gazing deep inside yourself?\" Good Old Neon: I liked this one quite a bit because of my own voyeuristic nature. Knowing that DFW commits suicide and seeing the way in which he describes the insecurities of the \"fraud\" and \"perfect\" main character made me wonder about DFW's own motivations. I was also curious about the way the story transferred to 3rd person (with DFW himself as filter) after the suicide. My favorite quote from this one was: \"Am I happy? is one of those questions that, if it has got to be asked, more or less dictates its own answer\". Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature: This story was rather odd (not that the others aren't). I like the slightly Asperger's bent of the narrator coupled with the idea that his mother's facial features cannot be re-arranged. His (the narrator's) obsession with black widow spiders is tongue-in-cheek given that this mother is a widow as well. Oblivion: I liked this story quite a bit and was more than happy with the resolution: they both are dreaming, UNTIL it turns out that it is all a dream. I get the idea that we cannot tell dream from reality, but the double layer just felt like he was laying it on too thickly. The Suffering Channel: This was probably my least favorite story. I liked the idea (and total bought it) of a suffering channel. Nothing other people like more than watching someone suffer. I also found his discussion about art vis a vis shit to be hysterically funny. This was the most Lynchian of these stories (as compared to the essays of A Supposedly Fun Thing in which they all had an element of unrealistic Lynch). Overall the stories are poignant. DFW does a great job of noting the deep human suffering to which we are all susceptible. Even though the writing is dense, the descriptions are humorous and it is definitely a worthwhile read. ...more In uno dei saggi contenuti in \"Considera l'aragosta\", DFW argomenta in modo critico (e autocritico) a proposito della tandenza di certa letteratura contemporanea ad aderire ad alcuni schemi ormai \"alla moda\", quindi diventati ripetitivi e prevedibili e alla lunga anche insopportabili, indicandoli brillantemente come \"cinica menata postmoderna\". Mi pare che DFW, per lo meno in riferimento a tutto quello che finora ho letto di suo - cio\u00e8 quasi tutto -, si sia sempre salvato grazie al suo desiderio In uno dei saggi contenuti in \"Considera l'aragosta\", DFW argomenta in modo critico (e autocritico) a proposito della tandenza di certa letteratura contemporanea ad aderire ad alcuni schemi ormai \"alla moda\", quindi diventati ripetitivi e prevedibili e alla lunga anche insopportabili, indicandoli brillantemente come \"cinica menata postmoderna\". Mi pare che DFW, per lo meno in riferimento a tutto quello che finora ho letto di suo - cio\u00e8 quasi tutto -, si sia sempre salvato grazie al suo desiderio di condivisione e grazie alle qualit\u00e0 morali e moraliste (\u00e8 un grande moralista) contenute nei suoi scritti: per non farla tanto lunga, ovvero per dirla in una parola, per la sua \"umanit\u00e0\". Cio\u00e8 per il suo essere umano (e quindi anche romantico, patetico, pietoso, portato alla commozione e al sentimentalismo), per la disponibilit\u00e0 ad ammettere i propri limiti pur indulgendo ed anzi reiterando e abbondando in certi clich\u00e9. Ebbene, a met\u00e0 della lettura dei racconti contenuti in questa raccolta, mi pare che qui, per la prima volta, DFW ricada nella sua stessa definizione di cinica menata postmoderna. Oltre al freddo gioco intellettuale e alla voglia di stupire, qui davvero non ho scorto da nessuna parte quelle qualit\u00e0 che me lo hanno sempre fatto tanto amare. Ho qui patito l'assenza di quel tocco magico alla DFW che lo rende speciale, ma del resto pu\u00f2 capitare a tutti ogni tanto di perdersi. ...more Oh, man. Do you see how I couldn't really recommend this book to anybody, despite the fact that I voted it five stars? That's because I genuinely felt haunted by some of the enclosed stories. Now, let's think about that for a second: \"haunted.\" What that means, basically, is that I felt like the stories were inside of me and that I really, really wished that they weren't there. Especially the title story, which is hands down the most powerful piece of written-word language ever to wrack my psych Oh, man. Do you see how I couldn't really recommend this book to anybody, despite the fact that I voted it five stars? That's because I genuinely felt haunted by some of the enclosed stories. Now, let's think about that for a second: \"haunted.\" What that means, basically, is that I felt like the stories were inside of me and that I really, really wished that they weren't there. Especially the title story, which is hands down the most powerful piece of written-word language ever to wrack my psyche. So recommending this to people really feels a lot like recommending that movie from _The Ring_, or whatever, except not a bad rip-off of a questionably good Japanese source. And besides, with all the psychological depth available to a gifted writer like Wallace, his epiphanies (and each story in here is a wonderfully fresh take on the epiphanic story structure; most are brilliantly successful) deliver way more immediacy and power than the vast, vast majority of films I have ever seen. Not to put too fine a point on it, but these are stories of horror and terror that not only shame Hollywood, but also shame our own Hollywood-ed ideas about horror and terror. If I could offer an honest -- if not exactly humble -- prediction, it would be that this will be recognized for the finest post-9/11 material published, fiction and non-fiction. ...more The darkest, but arguably best work of Wallace I've read yet. The stories in this collection lack Wallace's typical linguistic playfulness, quirky humour - what remains is a cloud of seriousness. This was not necessarily a bad thing however - I felt that there were several moving scenes in Infinite Jest with Don Gately that were essentially ruined by a crude fart joke. \"Mr. Squishy\" is reminiscent of \"A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again\", as Wallace tears apart the advertising industry. H The darkest, but arguably best work of Wallace I've read yet. The stories in this collection lack Wallace's typical linguistic playfulness, quirky humour - what remains is a cloud of seriousness. This was not necessarily a bad thing however - I felt that there were several moving scenes in Infinite Jest with Don Gately that were essentially ruined by a crude fart joke. \"Mr. Squishy\" is reminiscent of \"A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again\", as Wallace tears apart the advertising industry. He criticizes it for its pure falsity - it gives the deceptive veneer of spontaneity, while it actually is a calculated, manipulative entity behind the scenes. Advertising for Wallace is almost a purveyor of solipsism. \"Good Old Neon\" was easily the most touching of the stories in the collection. It can always be dangerous to point out a character in a story and state \"Yes, this is the author talking about himself\", but it was too painfully obvious that this was the case with Wallace here. \"Good Old Neon\" is Wallace's self-examination which leads him to see himself as a fraudulent, hideous man. \"GON\" is almost Wallace's literary suicide note. \"Mr. Squishy\" - 4/5 \"The Soul is Not a Smithy\" - 3/5 \"Incarnations of Burned Children\" - 4/5 \"Good Old Neon\" - 5/5 \"Oblivion\" - 4/5 ...more One of the most interesting things happening in American literature is the degree to which writers are getting inside the language and really making it work. With David Foster Wallace, you feel as if every punctuation mark, every comma, is fine tuned and well-honed. Yep, you buy this book for the language. It is the only comfort you will get from this series of bleak tales about the futility of existence for the average man in the American street; the futility of resistance, the eternal bleakness One of the most interesting things happening in American literature is the degree to which writers are getting inside the language and really making it work. With David Foster Wallace, you feel as if every punctuation mark, every comma, is fine tuned and well-honed. Yep, you buy this book for the language. It is the only comfort you will get from this series of bleak tales about the futility of existence for the average man in the American street; the futility of resistance, the eternal bleakness of the average life. So no, you don't buy it for the tale, there is nothing 'feel good' about these misanthropic tales - although they are so well crafted that there is something intriguingly satisfying about reading them. And I object to the comparisons with Don DeLillo - yes, the subject matter is similar, but Don DeLillo makes the epic out of the mundane, taking your breath away with his observations. David Foster Wallace is the opposite - his work is claustrophobic, uncomfortable, disturbing. Intrigued? ...more I hardly made it to read two out of the eight stories. I really wonder how low should modern literature level be, so that writings like this be considered masterpieces . Wallace's writing style is quite different from what I personally think of as artistic- boring, pointless descriptions that fill pages and pages, sentences that can reach up to 15 lines, and NO ACTION AT ALL, not even a psychological approach of the characters, not even a pioneering idea or a contermporary questioning of the ame I hardly made it to read two out of the eight stories. I really wonder how low should modern literature level be, so that writings like this be considered masterpieces . Wallace's writing style is quite different from what I personally think of as artistic- boring, pointless descriptions that fill pages and pages, sentences that can reach up to 15 lines, and NO ACTION AT ALL, not even a psychological approach of the characters, not even a pioneering idea or a contermporary questioning of the american society. Compared to this piece of work, police reports or newspaper articles seem far more fascinating and worth reading. ...more Phew - what a collection. I can see traces of DFW's later work in here - the first part of the beginning story reminds me of the tedium of jargon in The Pale King. He's still fumbling a bit, and some of these stories seem rambling and pretentious and just bad compared to the rest of his work (!), but his incredible talent with language is here, not a doubt. As for my humble recommendations, Good Old Neon, The Soul is not a Smithy, and Incarnations of Burned Children were brilliant. A humbling experience for me... I read Malraux or Hemingway, and I know I am reading some great literature... I know it, and yet I remain unmoved, uninvolved, unable to embrace what I read. So is it with David Foster Wallace. My very great loss... All but \"Incantations of burned children\" which actually terrorized me. http://www.diavazontas.blogspot.gr/20... \"The heir apparent to Thomas Pynchon*\", \u03bb\u03ad\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd Times \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 paperback \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c7\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5. \u039a\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd Pynchon \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c6\u03b1\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u00ab\u039f\u03c5\u03c1\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03cc\u03be\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2\u00bb \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03be\u03b5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd 50\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b1, \u03bd\u03b9\u03ce\u03b8\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf \u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd Times \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03af\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03b9\u03bb\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae \u03b4\u03cd\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03ce\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03ac \u03b2\u03c5\u03b8\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c0\u03b9\u03c1 http://www.diavazontas.blogspot.gr/20... \"The heir apparent to Thomas Pynchon*\", \u03bb\u03ad\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd Times \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 paperback \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c7\u03ad\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5. \u039a\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd Pynchon \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b5\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c6\u03b1\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03ac\u03b8\u03b5\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u00ab\u039f\u03c5\u03c1\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03cc\u03be\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c1\u03cd\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2\u00bb \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03be\u03b5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd 50\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b1, \u03bd\u03b9\u03ce\u03b8\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf \u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd Times \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03af\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u039c\u03b9\u03bb\u03ac\u03bc\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae \u03b4\u03cd\u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae, \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03ce\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03ac \u03b2\u03c5\u03b8\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2, \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c0\u03b9\u03c1\u03ac\u03bb \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c6\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf, \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c7\u03b5\u03b4\u03cc\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u201cOblivion\u201d \u03be\u03b5\u03c0\u03b7\u03b4\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03b8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03b8\u03ac\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03af \u03c6\u03cc\u03b2\u03bf\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2, \u03c4\u03bf \u03c8\u03ad\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ad\u03be\u03b5\u03b9. \u0397 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u00abMr. Squishy\u00bb \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03c6\u03bd\u03cc \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03bf \u03b3\u03b5\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03bb\u03b5\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03b5\u03c2, \u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03ba\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c0 \u00ab\u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03b9\u03bc\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd\u00bb \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03ca\u03cc\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03bf\u03ba\u03b9\u03bc\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba \u03c3\u03bf\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03bf\u03bb\u03b1\u03b2\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9\u03c1\u03b5\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. \u03a4\u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c7\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd\u03b1, \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ba\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03ae \u03c6\u03b9\u03b3\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03c1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c7\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b2\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03cd\u03b6\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03c4\u03af\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u00abThe soul is not a Smithy\u00bb, \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03af \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03be\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03cd \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03b5\u03af, \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b7\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ad\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03ac\u03b6\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03ac\u03b8\u03c5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd \u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b8\u03ae\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2, \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03ba\u03c4\u03c5\u03bb\u03af\u03c3\u03c3\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c9\u03c1\u03cc \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2, \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ae\u03be\u03b5\u03b9 \u03cc\u03bc\u03b7\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03cc \u03c8\u03c5\u03c7\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b5\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03cc\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u00abIncarnations of burnt children\u00bb \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03ae\u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03af\u03b3\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03c3\u03b1\u03c1\u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b9 \u03bf\u03b9 \u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03b1\u03b8\u03bf\u03cd\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03bf\u03b7\u03b8\u03ae\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u00abAnother Pioneer\u00bb \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03af \u03b3\u03b5\u03bd\u03bd\u03b9\u03ad\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ac\u03b3\u03c1\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c6\u03c5\u03bb\u03ae. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ae \u03b7 \u03c6\u03c5\u03bb\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03b2\u03ac\u03b8\u03c1\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c1\u03c9\u03c4\u03ac \u03ba\u03b9 \u03ad\u03c4\u03c3\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03bf\u03b4\u03b5\u03cd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b1\u03b6\u03af. \u039c\u03ad\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03b1\u03b9\u03b4\u03af \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c6\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ad\u03ba\u03c1\u03b7\u03be\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ae\u03b2\u03b7\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03b4\u03b7\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03ae\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b2\u03b1\u03b8\u03b9\u03ac \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1. \u03a4\u03bf \u00abGood old neon\u00bb \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03bc\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03c8\u03c5\u03c7\u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03ce\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03cd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03ac\u03c4\u03b7, \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03cc\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b6\u03c9\u03ae \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03c2. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf, \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ae\u03b8\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9. \u03a3\u03c4\u03bf \u201cPhilosophy and the mirror of nature\u201d \u03bf \u03b1\u03c6\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b5\u03be\u03b7\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bf \u03c0\u03bb\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ad\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b3\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ac\u03c6\u03b7\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7 \u03bc\u03ac\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ad\u03ba\u03c6\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c7\u03bf\u03cd\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03c1\u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03c0\u03bf. \u03a4\u03bf \u201cOblivion\u201d \u03b1\u03c6\u03bf\u03c1\u03ac \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03c5\u03c0\u03ad\u03c1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b4\u03ad\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03bb\u03c5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b1\u03c6\u03b7\u03b3\u03b7\u03c4\u03ae \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03c0\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c5\u03b3\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03c0\u03af \u03c7\u03c1\u03cc\u03bd\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03ae \u03b9\u03c3\u03c7\u03c5\u03c1\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b1\u03bb\u03af\u03b6\u03b5\u03b9, \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc\u03c2 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03b6\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9, \u03b5\u03bd\u03ce \u03bf \u03af\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bc\u03b7\u03b8\u03b5\u03af. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u00abThe suffering channel\u201d, \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03bf\u03c3\u03b9\u03bf\u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c6\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03bf\u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bb, \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c0\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03c4\u03cd\u03c0\u03bf \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c3\u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c6\u03c4\u03b9\u03ac\u03c7\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03ad\u03c7\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03bf\u03c3\u03b9\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03af\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03b7\u03b8\u03ce \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03af\u03b4\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 Wallace \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03cd\u03ba\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf. \u03a4\u03bf \u03b2\u03c1\u03ac\u03b4\u03c5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ac\u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bd\u03ae\u03c0\u03b9\u03bf \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bc\u03b7\u03b8\u03ce, \u03c3\u03c5\u03c7\u03bd\u03ac \u03b8\u03c5\u03c3\u03af\u03b1\u03c3\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03c1\u03c9\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b3\u03c1\u03ac\u03c8\u03b9\u03bc\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03ce\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03c9 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c3\u03cc\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b7 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03cd\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1. \u039f\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9 \u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03cc\u03bb\u03b5\u03c2. \u0397 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ce\u03c4\u03b7 \u03b1\u03c2 \u03c0\u03bf\u03cd\u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ac\u03c6\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b3\u03bb\u03c5\u03c6\u03ae \u03b1\u03af\u03c3\u03b8\u03b7\u03c3\u03b7, \u03c3\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03b8\u03b7\u03ba\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03cc \u03ba\u03b9 \u03ad\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ad\u03ba\u03bb\u03b5\u03c8\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ac\u03c6\u03b7\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03b4\u03b9\u03c8\u03b1\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7. \u038c\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03bf David Foster Wallace \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03c6\u03b5\u03c1\u03b5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03b5\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c0\u03ac\u03bd\u03b8\u03b5\u03bf \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c9\u03bd \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03ac\u03b4\u03b5\u03c8\u03b1\u03bd. * \u03a0\u03ce\u03c2 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b8\u03b1\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03ba\u03bb\u03b7\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03bc\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03bd\u03cc\u03c2 \u03b6\u03c9\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03cd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b1\u03c0\u03ac \u0395\u03c5\u03b1\u03b3\u03b3\u03ad\u03bb\u03b9\u03bf. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03c9\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ac\u03be\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b4\u03cd\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \"Oblivion\", David Foster Wallace, Abacus, 2004, pg.329 \u03a5.\u0393. \u03a3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bb\u03bb\u03b7\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03c1\u03ac\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03ba\u03b5 \"\u0391\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03b7 \u039b\u03ae\u03b8\u03b7\", \u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03bc\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03c1\u03ac\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c2 \u03b5\u03b9\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03b1\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03c4\u03ce \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd\u03bf\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9.... ...more Parlare bene della scrittura di David Foster Wallace e di un suo libro in particolare, probabilmente \u00e8 anche diventata una moda. Cos\u00ec come \u00e8 difficile trovare qualcuno a cui non piacciano personaggi come Benigni oppure Vasco (anche se qui \u00e8 gi\u00e0 pi\u00f9 facile), altrettanto difficile \u00e8 trovare una forte lettore che non apprezzi DFW. Le ragioni possono essere tante, alcune personali, altre pi\u00f9 allargate, fino ad arrivare ai commenti degli altri scrittori. Dal mio punto di vista devo dire che non mi fido Parlare bene della scrittura di David Foster Wallace e di un suo libro in particolare, probabilmente \u00e8 anche diventata una moda. Cos\u00ec come \u00e8 difficile trovare qualcuno a cui non piacciano personaggi come Benigni oppure Vasco (anche se qui \u00e8 gi\u00e0 pi\u00f9 facile), altrettanto difficile \u00e8 trovare una forte lettore che non apprezzi DFW. Le ragioni possono essere tante, alcune personali, altre pi\u00f9 allargate, fino ad arrivare ai commenti degli altri scrittori. Dal mio punto di vista devo dire che non mi fido pi\u00f9 di quanto scritto o detto dal resto del mondo letterario; mi sembra di notare una deriva autoreferenziale o perlomeno del vivi e lascia vivere. Pochi che parlano male di uno scritto non loro e ancora meno coloro i quali sono disposti ad accettare critiche; non parliano poi dei falsi modesti: pare che la stragrande maggioranza scriva quasi per caso. Fatto questo piccolo inciso e tornando al libro in questione, questo Oblio rappresenta un ottimo esempio dello stile di Wallace. Basta leggere, mi raccomando per\u00f2 con la giusta attenzione, le prime 20-25 pagine del primo racconto del libro per avere un\u2019idea abbastanza precisa del tipo di scrittura. Una scrittura piena di divagazioni che alla fine, non si sa come, diventano sempre parte integrante della storia. Aanche in questa parte iniziale le curiosit\u00e0 non mancano: dalla passione per la statistica e la psicologia del buon Schmidt, all\u2019arrampicata dell\u2019\u201duomo ragno\u201d di turno sulla parete in vetro del palazzo di fronte. Due semplici esempi che funzionano a latere di un racconto per il quale non sono indispensabili. Non \u00e8 da tutti scrivere cose apparentemente inutili che alla fine risultano necessarie. Oltre a tutto il resto c\u2019\u00e8 quasi in tutti gli scritti di Wallace quel senso di denuncia misto a rassegnazione per una societ\u00e0 e un modo di vivere in generale dove il \u201crococ\u00f2 dorato\u201d la fa da padrone sui contenuti in maniera sempre pi\u00f9 irreversibile. E\u2019 per\u00f2 il secondo racconto quello che pi\u00f9 sorprende e che rivela un Wallace a me finora sconosciuto. Un racconto nel quale lo scrittore, nonostante il suo modo di scrivere complesso e pieno di divagazioni con lunghe descrizioni di particolari spesso isolati dalla vicenda principale, rivela una inquietante capacit\u00e0 di trasmettere quella tensione che accende il desiderio del lettore mettendolo nella condizione di voler sapere il prima possibile come finisce la storia. Un Wallace diverso da quello trovato nelle altre mie lettura (La scopa del sistema, Brevi interviste\u2026, Una cosa divertente\u2026, Tennis trigonimetria\u2026., La ragazza dai capelli strani e Una cosa divertente che non far\u00f2 mai pi\u00f9) e forse per questo ancor pi\u00f9 soddisfacente. \u201cNon una parola di pi\u00f9.\u201d In questo modo termina \u201cCaro vecchio neon\u201d il racconto pi\u00f9 strano ed intenso del libro, nel quale cercare segnali e motivazioni per quello che l\u2019autore far\u00e0 qualche anno dopo verrebbe talmente automatico da risultare alquanto sospetto e scontato, quindi come dice lo stesso Wallace, non una parola di pi\u00f9. Tempo di lettura: 14h 50m ...more A great collection of short stories. Edit: 11/4/15:Three months ago, I was having a little trouble getting back on the reading saddle. I had invested in some books that were disappointing, and in an effort to cheer myself I picked up this slim collection off my shelf and read the story 'Good Old Neon'. Wallace's unique prose was a perfect antidote to the subpar work I had been struggling with. This is my second time reading this collection, and it is once again deserving of five stars. Wallace's A great collection of short stories. Edit: 11/4/15:Three months ago, I was having a little trouble getting back on the reading saddle. I had invested in some books that were disappointing, and in an effort to cheer myself I picked up this slim collection off my shelf and read the story 'Good Old Neon'. Wallace's unique prose was a perfect antidote to the subpar work I had been struggling with. This is my second time reading this collection, and it is once again deserving of five stars. Wallace's prose is dense, both in that it is bristling with qualifiers, sub-qualifiers, parentheses, addendums, and side-comments and that it is freakishly brainy. The sheer volume of details submerge the reader in an ocean of noise, that makes the reader constantly grapple with the questions of 'what is important, what isn't'? Wallace plays with this facet of his fiction in the opening story of the collection, 'Mr. Squishy'. In the story, a marketing group facilitator, Terry Schmidt, classifies and characterizes a group of people who he is doing a market test on. The joke of course being that, we are classifying and creating our own mental picture of Terry Schmidt as he does the same thing to the people he is working with. Wallace's universes are always fractal-like in this manner. He plays a lot with the structure of story telling to warp and twist the stories back in on themselves. I often experience his fiction in a particular way. I start off feeling the traditional experience of a reader, that of stepping through a doorway into another world, and then halfway or entirely through the story, I realize that the journey was an illusion and that I have merely been staring at some strange part of myself or my environment in a mirror for the entirety of the story. It's uncomfortable to discover that there are parts of me that I've never noticed before, but it's also exhilarating to be surprised in this manner. It would be a disservice to say that this is the only component of his fiction. The meta-stuff is the cherry on top and his stories would be decidedly empty if that's all they had to give. But Wallace also manages to illustrate the dynamics of relationships with an incisive eye. Be it the young man and his mother in 'Philosophy and the mirror of nature', the step father in 'oblivion', or the magazine editor in 'The Suffering Channel', Wallace is always en flique with his portrayal of interpersonal interactions. Wallace's deft balance between over-engineering the structure of his stories, and staying close to the roots of what moves a reader makes him a singular author. ...more<---C>David Foster Wallace</---C>", "Title": "Oblivion"},
