{"Comments": "As I was reading this book,<---M> I thought back to our recent election</---M>, and to a minor flap that occurred when Michelle Obama said she was \"proud\" of America for the first time in her life. Some people - white people - didn't, or couldn't, understand what she meant. They should probably read this book, for while it is a dense, incredibly detailed chronicle of Lyndon Johnson's Senate years, it is also the story of civil rights in America.<---F> It's a disgusting story</---F>. There were times I was so infuriated r As I was reading this book, I thought back to our recent election, and to a minor flap that occurred when Michelle Obama said she was \"proud\" of America for the first time in her life. Some people - white people - didn't, or couldn't, understand what she meant. They should probably read this book, for while it is a dense, incredibly detailed chronicle of Lyndon Johnson's Senate years, it is also the story of civil rights in America. It's a disgusting story. There were times I was so infuriated reading this book I had to put it down and have a drink. I wanted to go find Strom Thurmond's grave, and piss on it. Voltaire once wrote that \"history is nothing more than a tableau of crimes and misfortunes.\" That just about sums of the United States Senate and its obstruction, for almost 100 years, of any meaningful civil rights legislation. <+++>Master of the Senate</+++> continues <---C>Robert</---C> Caro's hot streak. So far, it is the longest of the three. While I still consider Path to Power the best (<---B>I really loved the chapter on Rayburn</---B>), Master is a close second. Caro has done a superb, almost lawyerly job of maintaining his thesis on Johnson: a crass, brown-nosing, devious, sneaky, weaselly power grabber who, once he had accumulated great power, decided to wield it for what amounted to an absolute good. I've previously noted that the first two volumes of The Years of Lyndon Johnson were extraordinary for the disdain with which Caro treated his subject. Johnson came off as a small man of amorphous ideals, willing to lie and cheat to get what he desired most: power (Johnson's story reminds me of Napoleon's dictum that accumulation of power requires absolute pettiness, while exercise of power requires true greatness). Caro starts to soften on Johnson is this book, noting that whatever shenanigans he took part in to get power, in the end, he used that power for righteousness. He was, as Caro notes, the greatest champion of civil rights to ever hold high office. Indeed, he takes his place with Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King as the most effective civil rights leaders in history. Whatever else you say about Johnson, he has the Great Society as his legacy, and that ain't nothing. <+++>Master of the Senate</+++> is a long book; at times, the amount of information is overwhelming. It begins with a long discourse on the history of the US Senate. While it sometimes felt that this history, while interesting, was just Caro showing off as an historian, his point becomes clear. The way the Senate is set up, with its arcane parliamentary rules, makes it a bulwark - what Caro calls a \"dam\" - against change. By design, the Senate is meant to maintain the status quo by giving the minority - in the case of civil rights, the South - an inordinate amount of power to keep things from getting done. Part of the reason this book is so long is Caro's constant rehashing of previously-told events. This is why I called the book lawyerly. For even though it is brilliantly, at times beautifully written, it also is making a point. Caro has a thesis, and he uses and reuses events from Johnson's life to make this point. This is both good and bad: bad because you keep going over the same stories, the same quotes; good because it sticks in your head. It's what they teach you in legal writing: start by telling the audience what you are going to say; say it; then remind your audience what they've just been told. Like his other Johnson books, Caro spends a lot of time fleshing out the peripheral characters, though oddly enough, Lady Bird and Johnson's children are seldom mentioned. Unlike the previous two books, there is no \"hero\" to stand in contrast to Johnson, as Sam Rayburn did in Path to Power and Coke Stevenson did in Means of Ascent . Instead, we are treated to a lengthy biography of one of humanity's great and unknown villains: Richard Brevard Russell, \"a Russell of the Russells of Georgia.\" Russell, like Robert E. Lee, was a courtly, well-spoken gentleman who stood on the side of evil and yet, because of his patrician nature, somehow gets a pass from history. Not from Caro. Though he is an excellent historian, this is not a purely objective book, and some passages on Russell drip with contempt and scorn. Of course, scorn is the least that Russell deserves. There is also a chapter devoted to Minnesota's finest, the liberal lion Hubert Horatio Humphrey, whom Senator Paul Douglas called \"the orator of the dawn.\" Oddly, though Humphrey is given a big rollout, we don't really learn a lot about him, and though he hovers in the background, his roll is secondary. I'm assuming that Johnson's eventual vice-president will get a lot more print in the next volume. A lot is packed into this mammoth book: a history of the Senate; Humphrey's 1948 convention speech; Johnson's sub-committee work during the Korean War (where he shamelessly self-aggrandized); Johnson's maneuvering to become a powerful Majority Leader; the Senate investigation into the removal of Douglas MacArthur; the communist witch hunts of Joe McCarthy; Johnson's near-fatal heart attack; and much more. Of course, the great event, the singular event around which all other events orbited, the aptly named Great Cause, was the passage of the 1957 Civil Rights Bill. The Bill was weak and near meaningless. Indeed, Johnson was assailed at the time for helping to gut it. Yet it was the first civil rights bill passed in the Senate since 1875; all other attempts had been filibustered by the South. Caro goes into incredible, at times excruciating detail, as to how Johnson, in order to become a presidential contender (Caro notes that when Johnson's ambition coincided with the chance to do good, America benefited) cut this Gordian knot. There is no way to summarize the labyrinthine maneuvers required to get even a weak civil rights bill through the Senate, yet Caro manages to make even the Byzantine rules of the Senate understandable. The book's sharp focus on the Senate years means that you lose out a lot on Johnson's personal life, though Caro does spend some time dwelling on his affair with Helen Gahagan Douglas. Also, interestingly, Jack Kennedy has almost no role whatsoever. This leads to my final thought: there is no way on God's green Earth that Caro manages to fit LBJ's vice presidency, presidency, and post-presidential life into one volume. I know The Years of Lyndon Johnson was initially conceived as a trilogy and has been adjusted to a quadrilogy; now, I think Caro should admit that he's going to need two more books. There's just two many characters (MLK, JFK, Bobby Kennedy, Westmoreland, McNamara) and too many events (LBJ's sad vice-presidency, the assassination, the Great Society, Vietnam, Humphrey's loss in '68) for just one more book, unless that book is 2000 pages long. ...more Robert Caro has got to be the best American biographer of the past 50 years. It's sad that he's only turned out 4 books in the last 35 years, but each one is so exceptionally researched and well-written. Master of the Senate is another chapter in Caro's multi-volume study of Lyndon Johnson, focusing on his time in the Senate, specifically his efforts to pass the first Civil Rights bill since Reconstruction. His study of the political dynamics of the Senate in the 1950s, including the entrenched Robert Caro has got to be the best American biographer of the past 50 years. It's sad that he's only turned out 4 books in the last 35 years, but each one is so exceptionally researched and well-written. Master of the Senate is another chapter in Caro's multi-volume study of Lyndon Johnson, focusing on his time in the Senate, specifically his efforts to pass the first Civil Rights bill since Reconstruction. His study of the political dynamics of the Senate in the 1950s, including the entrenched fecklessness of the Republicans and the deep divisions between the conservative (southern & western) democrats and the northeastrern liberal democrats is amazingly informative and insightful. So much of the modern political landscape we are so familiar with today stems from the moments recounted in this book, including the black vote being 90% democrat and the 30+ year republican lock on the (white) southern states. A great book if you're interested in American politics and the dynamics of power in the federal government. Also, the book is stand alone. You don't have to read the previous two volumes of the Lyndon Johnson series to appreciate it. ...more Yes, this, the third volume in the Johnson biography, is also one of the best books ever written, like the other ones. And yes, I can't wait until the next volume comes out. Caro is such a great writer because he is so honestly interested in the minutiae of process, and he treats all his great works as procedural thrillers. He doesn't just want to know that Johnson was able to win a vote in the Senate, he wants to know exactly how he did it, what horse-trades he had to make, what motions he would Yes, this, the third volume in the Johnson biography, is also one of the best books ever written, like the other ones. And yes, I can't wait until the next volume comes out. Caro is such a great writer because he is so honestly interested in the minutiae of process, and he treats all his great works as procedural thrillers. He doesn't just want to know that Johnson was able to win a vote in the Senate, he wants to know exactly how he did it, what horse-trades he had to make, what motions he would use to speed up or slow down the vote, how he would organize the investigative committees to proselytize for his cause. Caro discovers how Johnson hired his staff from executive departments, how he acquired extra office space, how he was able to threaten or cajole other members into supporting him. And all this doesn't come across as irrelevant detail because Caro is able to show how important it all is, not just for Johnson but for the country, and to simultaneously show the kind of intelligence and drive it took to pull it all off. Surprisingly, with a book of this heft, it is not exactly comprehensive. Out of the ten years covering four or five are treated in no more than a few pages. It is really a series of case studies that focus on particular aspects of the Senate in the 1950s: the subcommittee investigative hearings on Korean war preparedness, the vote on the confirmation of Federal Power Commissioner Leland Olds, and the passage of the 1957 Civil Rights Act. Each of these dramatizes a different part of the Senate's operation, and makes the reader understand exactly what the Senate does and how it does it like no other book can. I have to say that Caro could be a little repetitive when emphasizing a dramatic point (yes, by the third volume I know Johnson was very ambitious), but its worth it. ...more After 3 volumes and 3000+ pages (probably 4000+ counting all the notes, which are well worth reading), I can't think of a better term to describe this bio of LBJ than \"page-turner.\" Actually, I can think of lots of better terms: compelling, gripping, exhaustively detailed, amazingly well researched and documented, vivid, compassionate, fair, unblinking, dogged, and probably the greatest analysis of political power in 20th century America that will ever be written. Quite simply, I love this book, After 3 volumes and 3000+ pages (probably 4000+ counting all the notes, which are well worth reading), I can't think of a better term to describe this bio of LBJ than \"page-turner.\" Actually, I can think of lots of better terms: compelling, gripping, exhaustively detailed, amazingly well researched and documented, vivid, compassionate, fair, unblinking, dogged, and probably the greatest analysis of political power in 20th century America that will ever be written. Quite simply, I love this book, with a love that I normally feel only for fiction. I initially picked up the first volume 3 years ago because I wanted to understand how LBJ could have been responsible for some of the greatest good things that happened in my lifetime, but also some of the greatest bad things. For the first 2500 pages, all I found was awfulness. It's a real tribute to Robert Caro's gifts as a writer that he made me want to keep reading about someone who, with every page, seemed more and more loathsome. It's only towards the end of the 3rd volume (around about 1956) that I began to see a glimmer, not of goodness exactly, but of compassion, empathy, and standing up for what was right. I checked the first three volumes out of the library, and was going to do the same with the fourth. But then I read Caro's acknowledgements at the end of \"Master of the Senate,\" in which he praised his publisher and editor and book designer and any number of other people at Knopf. And I realized that I wanted to acknowledge all the people responsible for this fantastic work myself, by paying them for their work. My $35, while meager recompense for the joy that this work has given me, is (I hope) a signal to the bookstore and publisher that there is still a market for serious, wide-ranging books that take decades to write. ...more This is an excellent book on two levels: it sheds light on the character of Lyndon Johnson and it reveals the intricate workings of the US Senate. I was appalled by the side of LBJ that Caro uncovers. He was an ego-maniacal bully who used physical intimidation and lies to manipulate those around him. He was the youngest Senator to hold the position of Senate majority leader and he was truly masterful at claiming and wielding the power that came with that position. The book uses the famous Civil This is an excellent book on two levels: it sheds light on the character of Lyndon Johnson and it reveals the intricate workings of the US Senate. I was appalled by the side of LBJ that Caro uncovers. He was an ego-maniacal bully who used physical intimidation and lies to manipulate those around him. He was the youngest Senator to hold the position of Senate majority leader and he was truly masterful at claiming and wielding the power that came with that position. The book uses the famous Civil Rights legislation as the main example of how Johnson used his power to accomplish his goal, which ultimately, was purely personal and power-based. I loved getting a behind-the-scenes look at how the Senate is run. It's amazing how these people find a way to work together or get anything accomplished given their egos and personal goals and constituency expectations. The Economist ran an article recently about how dynastic the Senate has been historically and it truly seems that nothing has changed in that regard. I'm interested in reading more about the workings of this group, both historically and now. ...more Like the second, the third volume of The Years of Lyndon Johnson progresses from a slow start to a riveting finish. In the first 100 pages Caro recounts the exercise of power in the Senate from its inception to the time Lyndon Johnson entered in 1948. At that time, the firmly entrenched seniority system vested unmitigated power in the committee chairmen who were old, conservative and southern. This instructive history lesson gives us the context we need to assess Johnson\u2019s significant accomplish Like the second, the third volume of The Years of Lyndon Johnson progresses from a slow start to a riveting finish. In the first 100 pages Caro recounts the exercise of power in the Senate from its inception to the time Lyndon Johnson entered in 1948. At that time, the firmly entrenched seniority system vested unmitigated power in the committee chairmen who were old, conservative and southern. This instructive history lesson gives us the context we need to assess Johnson\u2019s significant accomplishments to follow. Johnson as a freshman senator quickly sizes up the situation, lays out his plan and executes it with precision in spite of seemingly overwhelming obstacles. He uses his magic with older men, sucking up to the existing Senate leaders, Richard Russell most prominently, winning their trust and support. He brings national attention to himself taking control of a minor subcommittee and blowing out of all proportion its minor findings. He ascends to power as he has in the past, by taking a thankless job, in this case assistant leader or whip, and transforming it into one of importance. Along the way he pleases his Texas financial backers by lambasting a hapless Leander Olds as a communist. As chairman of the Federal Power Commission, Olds tightly regulated oil and gas prices. Johnson took him out ensuring continued generous financial support from Texas oilmen. As a telling example of LBJ\u2019s ethics, after completely destroying Olds in front of the nation, he walked up to him after the hearing to shake his hand saying he didn\u2019t mean anything personal, it was just politics and he hoped they were still friends. Even though Johnson didn\u2019t really believe or probably even care whether Olds was a communist, neither did he believe that he had done anything wrong in ruining him. Much of volume three documents the slipping and sliding Johnson does between liberals and conservatives first as whip and then as majority leader. He always bends just enough to keep each side in his debt yet never goes so far as to alienate the other. He is the Senate dance master. And he gets things done, settling issues without extended fights. Bills get passed as conflicts are resolved in a way we could never envision in today\u2019s Congress. In the Johnson style, each step of the way he accumulates power as he rewards those who help and ostracizes those who don\u2019t. You are either a member of his team or forget ever getting anything for yourself or your constituents. Who else could have the support at the same time of both Hubert Humphrey and Richard Russell? Civil Rights was an issue Johnson had decided not to take on, letting the Southern Democrats empowered by the filibuster prevent any serious effort at a bill. Two things changed that. First was the nationwide clamor for action that developed in the wake of the Emmett Till murder case and the Montgomery busing segregation chaos with widespread violence and bombings. Buttressed by TV images and widespread popular magazine coverage, Civil Rights would no longer be dispatched to the background. Second was Johnson\u2019s presidential bid debacle at the 1956 Democratic convention. His delusions of grandeur shattered, he realized his perception by the nation as a sectional leader of the now even further diminished South stood in the way of his presidential ambitions. The Civil Rights bill of 1957, a weak attempt at protecting minority voting rights, was LBJ\u2019s answer to his dilemma. In describing how this bill was engineered and became law Caro is at his best. Despite the bill\u2019s shortcomings it took unbelievable dedication and skill to get it passed. Caro encapsulates clearly why Johnson was truly the \u201cMaster of the Senate\u201d. Regardless of what one thinks of the final bill or Johnson\u2019s character, one has to recognize a remarkable individual who better than anybody understood how to gain and use power. Having read the first two volumes serves the reader well here. They show how everything in Johnson\u2019s life culminated in the person that could accomplish the extraordinary. It is almost impossible to imagine anyone else getting this legislation passed. I am left with a fundamental question. Today\u2019s Congress is hopelessly deadlocked. This is normal. As Caro\u2019s history lesson of the Senate illustrates so well, only under unusual circumstances (civil war, depression) did the Senate get anything done, except of course what financial interests paid for. Could Lyndon Johnson control the Senate today? Would we want him too? Is self-aggrandizement, deceit, intimidation and the rawest of power politics necessary for progress? Is it worth it? ...more I can't wait for the final volume of this to come out. While everyone I know told me I was crazy for delving into a three volume bio of LBJ that ends just as he finally becomes V.P., it is a great reminder that politics has always been dirty and the dirtiest always win (Oh, yeah...the country also loses then.) Having said that I found the LBJ in the book one of those amazing characters who made me battle myself. Half the time I loved him and half the time I hated him. In domestic policy the goal I can't wait for the final volume of this to come out. While everyone I know told me I was crazy for delving into a three volume bio of LBJ that ends just as he finally becomes V.P., it is a great reminder that politics has always been dirty and the dirtiest always win (Oh, yeah...the country also loses then.) Having said that I found the LBJ in the book one of those amazing characters who made me battle myself. Half the time I loved him and half the time I hated him. In domestic policy the goals were admirable and he accomplished great things (Voting Rights Act of 1965) but his foreign policy left much to be desired. That is perhaps a tad understated. ...more I've started about eight books in the past week, but I can't get into any of them. I've just been flailing around in the Proust, and nothing else I've tried to read lately has done anything for me.... so tonight I decided to stop this charade and go for what I want. I've suspected for awhile that I was born to read this book, yet I keep telling myself it's not time yet. There's something a little scary about starting a book like this one. What if it's not as mindblowing as I think it's going to b I've started about eight books in the past week, but I can't get into any of them. I've just been flailing around in the Proust, and nothing else I've tried to read lately has done anything for me.... so tonight I decided to stop this charade and go for what I want. I've suspected for awhile that I was born to read this book, yet I keep telling myself it's not time yet. There's something a little scary about starting a book like this one. What if it's not as mindblowing as I think it's going to be? What if it's just like, whatever? What if it's not nearly as great as The Power Broker , or I can see that it is but I just don't enjoy it that much, like how I loved Swann's Way but can't seem to get through the second one? What if it's okay but it's dry? What if I get a little ways in and then forget to keep reading? What if I'm bored? What if it just doesn't dramatically transform the way I think about everything in some fundamental way? What if I don't find LBJ or the US Senate particularly fascinating, once I start reading all about them? Kind of odd, stupid fears, but that's the way I think. Well, if it sucks I can give up on books and start watching television. The first few pages are pretty good, anyway, and that's a good sign. The cover totally sucks, though. Why couldn't they get the Power Broker illustrator to do this one? Ah, well. Here goes nothing.... ...more As one who has come late to the magisterial multi-volume biography of Lyndon Johnson, I continue to be amazed at Robert Caro\u2019s skill in walking the tightrope of scholarly research and lively presentation. After recently reading volumes one and two, I had come to know the man from Texas, and now in volume three I\u2019ve seen LBJ truly in his element, trading favors and exploiting arcane rules to turn the Senate on its complacent ear. Yet even as I call LBJ \u201cthe man from Texas,\u201d I know where he prefer As one who has come late to the magisterial multi-volume biography of Lyndon Johnson, I continue to be amazed at Robert Caro\u2019s skill in walking the tightrope of scholarly research and lively presentation. After recently reading volumes one and two, I had come to know the man from Texas, and now in volume three I\u2019ve seen LBJ truly in his element, trading favors and exploiting arcane rules to turn the Senate on its complacent ear. Yet even as I call LBJ \u201cthe man from Texas,\u201d I know where he preferred to be. Not on the sleepy Pedernales, as much as he could wax eloquent about it, but in the heart of Washington, exercising power. Master of the Senate covers Johnson\u2019s rise from raw new Senator to dominance of that body, taking us through many side roads, including Johnson\u2019s first heart attack and his ill-conceived run for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency in 1956. Caro\u2019s central thesis: LBJ was a ruthless man who would do anything to gain power. He also cared about the poor and minorities, but when there was conflict between these two motivations, the rush to power would win every time. HOW HE ACQUIRED POWER... When he arrived in the Senate in early 1949, Johnson adopted a tactic which had served him well in the past. He chose a mentor who could open doors for him, and \u2013 as in his relationship with Sam Rayburn in the House \u2013 he chose well. Georgia\u2019s Richard Russell dominated the Southern caucus, whose conservative members exercised exceptional control in the Democratic Party through committee chairmanships, other benefits of seniority, and the filibuster. Russell was determined to maintain the status quo in the South, to preserve a way of life characterized above all by separation of the races. For his entire Senate career, Johnson was beholden to the Southern caucus and to the support of Russell. Johnson repeatedly had to demonstrate his solidarity with the Southern caucus, but there was another group to whom he was beholden: the moneyed oil and energy moguls of Texas. To show them he was loyal, he took on a subcommittee chairmanship to look into the renomination of Leland Olds as chairman of the Federal Power Commission. Olds was a particularly effective bureaucrat who drew the enmity of the energy entrepreneurs because the FPC was a New Deal program to reduce private control over natural resources. Olds was a genius at figuring out the tangled financial arrangements of the giant companies, and they wanted him out. Johnson accomplished just that by falsely tying Olds to Communism, manipulating the hearings to effectively destroy the man. Thus Johnson had his conservative bona fides. [Olds was devastated. Johnson assured him it was \u201cjust politics.\u201d Personally, I just felt sick.] HOW HE USED IT... In the next few years, Johnson became the man whom Russell believed could be the first Southern President, and he worked to position him, helping him to become first Minority Leader, then Majority Leader. Johnson proved masterly at moving legislation through a body which had become known for its torpor. But then Johnson recognized that he would have to become more acceptable to increasingly restive liberal Democrats. Every year, Senators like Paul Douglas and Herbert Lehman attempted civil rights legislation to address terrible inequities of the Jim Crow states \u2013 and they could never overcome the Southern filibuster. In 1957, Johnson maneuvered a severely compromised version of the bill that Russell and his compatriots would not filibuster. It was a watered-down voting rights bill that lacked teeth (and, perhaps more seriously, was not enforced by the Eisenhower Justice Department). But it was the first civil rights legislation in modern times, and it was Johnson\u2019s \u201cmasterpiece,\u201d as the headlines trumpeted. It was the break-through, and Caro turns the story of its passing into a near thriller \u2013 150 pages of twists, turns, dead ends, opportunities, and finally triumph. LBJ was now newsmagazine fodder. Caro makes a strong case that Johnson really had a compassionate heart, that his old connections to poor Mexicans touched him. And until he had real power, he couldn\u2019t exercise compassion. I am astonished at how much I have written in this review \u2013 and how much I have omitted. If you\u2019re thinking of reading this in hard copy, it weighs 4 \u00bd pounds. You\u2019ll be glad you hefted it. ...more This is a long book. Caro provides extended passages of background about a quarter of the book on the history of the Senate, from the great days of Webster, Clay and Calhoun to current times. He also went into detail about the architecture and seats in the Senate both before and after the War of 1812. Approximately half of the book covers in detail the epic battle over the 1957 Civil Rights Bill. Johnson\u2019s magic is the main subject of the book: how he made things happen in the U.S. Senate. Johns This is a long book. Caro provides extended passages of background about a quarter of the book on the history of the Senate, from the great days of Webster, Clay and Calhoun to current times. He also went into detail about the architecture and seats in the Senate both before and after the War of 1812. Approximately half of the book covers in detail the epic battle over the 1957 Civil Rights Bill. Johnson\u2019s magic is the main subject of the book: how he made things happen in the U.S. Senate. Johnson\u2019s wheeling, threatening, stroking large egos, explaining why his goal was essential for the Country\u2018s good, he ran an institution that had never before been run by anyone. \u201cMaster of the Senate\u201d is the third volume of Caro\u2019s biography of Lyndon Johnson. I seem to be reading this series backwards as I started with Volume four. Caro presents a Johnson that is well rounded. We get to see him with all his warts and all, but also are given admiring recognition of all his accomplishments. Race was the great test for Johnson and the country during his years as Senate Majority leader 1955-61. Caro reveals the obstructed federal action on the cruel mistreatment of blacks in the South; no civil rights legislation had been enacted since 1875, at the end of the Reconstruction. For years after Johnson entered the Senate in 1949, he mostly voted with the Southerners. He chose as his mentor senator Richard Russell of Georgia, one of the most powerful men in the Senate. Johnson\u2019s friend Philip Graham, publisher of The Washington Post, kept telling Johnson he had to do something for civil rights. In 1957 President Eisenhower proposed Civil Rights Legislation. It appeared impossible to pass the legislation, but Johnson made it happen. Caro\u2019s description of how he did it is masterly. His strategy was to persuade the Southerners that is was in their best interest to let something labeled civil rights go through. The Eisenhower bill was focused on the right to vote, which the South denied the blacks by force and trickery. Johnson weakened the bill but if he didn\u2019t it would not pass. Johnson thought of it as a beginning as opening to further more meaningful legislation. Caro shows how Johnson learned the rules of the Senate and then used them. He then learned about the men in the Senate, their vanities, frailties and their weakness. He then sold himself to each as their friend, political adviser, their sounding board their Mr.-Fix-it. He also found a way to bridge the chasm between the Southern Democrats and the Northern liberals. The author goes into detail about the Olds Hearing. I will never again watch a Senate hearing without remembering what Johnson did to this man. Olds was up for re-confirmation of the Utilities commission and Johnson destroyed the man accusing him of being a communist just so he could obtain the favor and backing of the Texas gas and oil companies. Johnson organized a sneak attack and controlled the whole hearing so the man could not have the opportunity to refute the charges. Caro concludes that with the single exception of Lincoln, Johnson was the greatest white champion of blacks in American History. Grover Gardner does an excellent job narrating the book. ...more This is THE book of 2016. It literally took 11 months for me to read it. It is another of Caro's magnificent depictions of power. Johnson longed for power and he used every means to get it. Once gotten, he used his power for all it was worth either for the good of the country but more likely for the advancement of LBJ. Caro's research is detailed and embraces every aspect of the high points of Johnson's Senate career. The single chapter on the passage of the 1957 Civil Rights Act shows Johnson's This is THE book of 2016. It literally took 11 months for me to read it. It is another of Caro's magnificent depictions of power. Johnson longed for power and he used every means to get it. Once gotten, he used his power for all it was worth either for the good of the country but more likely for the advancement of LBJ. Caro's research is detailed and embraces every aspect of the high points of Johnson's Senate career. The single chapter on the passage of the 1957 Civil Rights Act shows Johnson's understanding of Senate procedure as well as the individual personalities of every one of the other 95 senators. This is a brilliant work and deserves every award it received. ...more Make no mistake: Lyndon Baines Johnson was a stone cold, LEGISLATIVE ANIMAL. His accomplishments, maneuvering, and overall dominance as a tactician are all the more remarkable when you consider the regular, alternating fits of paralysis and tantruming that have unfortunately come to characterize the modern day, pitiful excuse for the United States Senate we've inherited. Caro's knowledge, both of the institution and of the man himself, is clearly comprehensive, but what I loved about \"Master of Make no mistake: Lyndon Baines Johnson was a stone cold, LEGISLATIVE ANIMAL. His accomplishments, maneuvering, and overall dominance as a tactician are all the more remarkable when you consider the regular, alternating fits of paralysis and tantruming that have unfortunately come to characterize the modern day, pitiful excuse for the United States Senate we've inherited. Caro's knowledge, both of the institution and of the man himself, is clearly comprehensive, but what I loved about \"Master of the Senate\" was the fact that the depth of the research propelled the historical drama forward rather than reducing it to an endless, mindless recitation of people, places, things and dates. Highly recommended. Think of me towering over you LBJ-style, threatening YOUR chairmanship of some important committee and bullying you into reading it...even though it is long. ...more Another masterpiece from Robert Caro! The longest book (thus far) in the series, this covers Johnson's years in the Senate (1949-1961). Mainly, Caro focuses on the period from 1949 up to the passage of the Civil Rights Bill of 1957. During this time, Caro shows how Johnson rapidly accumulated power, becoming Minority Leader in 1953 while still a freshman Senator and only 44 years old. Johnson then bullied his way into being chosen as the Democrats' Majority Leader when they retook control of the Another masterpiece from Robert Caro! The longest book (thus far) in the series, this covers Johnson's years in the Senate (1949-1961). Mainly, Caro focuses on the period from 1949 up to the passage of the Civil Rights Bill of 1957. During this time, Caro shows how Johnson rapidly accumulated power, becoming Minority Leader in 1953 while still a freshman Senator and only 44 years old. Johnson then bullied his way into being chosen as the Democrats' Majority Leader when they retook control of the Senate in 1955. One trademark of Caro's books is that he does not just focus on the main subject. So, the first 10% of this book is a retracing of the history of the Senate. Caro describes what the Founders wanted the Senate to be and how they specifically decided that its members would not be popularly elected. He goes on to describe a few of the famous battles between Henry Clay, John Calhoun, and Daniel Webster in the first half of the 19th century, a time when the Senate was sometimes the dominant part of the government. He also talks about the torpedoing of the League of Nations treaty by Henry Cabot Lodge in 1919 and 1920 and how the Senate destroyed Woodrow Wilson's dream of a global organization for peace. Caro goes in-depth in describing the culture of the Senate and how its members often think of themselves in a superior light; how Southerners accumulated power by grasping committee chairmanships and not letting go until forced to due to illness or death; and how the seniority system played into the hands of the Southerners in helping them obtain and horde these committee chairmanships. Caro goes into this level of detail to properly set the stage for when Johnson arrives as the junior Senator from Texas in January 1949. Johnson's ruthlessness is on display just like it was throughout the first two volumes. Caro continually writes of examples showing that Johnson would play people off against each other (in this volume, it was mainly Northerners vs Southerners in the Senate - Johnson would pretend with each group that he was on its side, telling its members what they wanted to hear; he would then say the exact opposite to the other group). \"The Johnson Treatment\" assumed full force during this period. Caro puts the reader inside the Democratic cloakroom as Johnson pins a Senator against a wall or in a plush couch and physically prevents the Senator from moving away from him as Johnson tries to persuade, cajole, or bully the Senator into voting the way that Johnson wanted him to. He also examines Johnson's decision to appease his wealthy Texas supporters like the Brown brothers by humiliating Leland Olds when Olds was up for renomination as Director of the Federal Power Commission. Olds had been appointed by FDR in 1939, and successfully renominated in 1944, so Olds was not expecting to have any issues. But Johnson's supporters did not like Olds's philosophy on electricity rate reforms. Johnson orchestrated what would now be called a smear campaign against Olds, falsely showcasing him as a Communist by unearthing bits and pieces of old writings that Olds had made in the 1920s. Johnson basically ruined him and his career as Olds struggled the rest of his life after leaving the FPC. Caro views Johnson as an opportunist and an ego-maniac. He lusts after power wherever he goes. He wanted to control the Senate and bend Senators to his will. Johnson was obsessed also with running for the presidency, and he saw the Senate as a stepping-stone to achieving that goal. Caro has unearthed such a large amount first-hand knowledge of Johnson through all of the interviews that he has conducted over the past forty years. Reading this, you are transported back to Johnson's world of the 1950s - his chain-smoking that helped result in a massive heart attack in 1955, his ambivalence and waffling on civil rights (until he judged that the time was right for him to try to obtain credit for passing a bill, watered-down as it was), his continued cruel disregard of Lady Bird, and his life being totally consumed by the Senate to the detriment of his daughters. In Volume I, Caro spotlighted Sam Rayburn and made him a major part of that book. In this volume, it is Georgia Senator Richard Russell. Once again, Caro digs deep into Russell's background to help provide context to the reader. Johnson would not have been able to amass the power that he did without Russell's constant backing. Caro does treat Russell fairly: scouring him for his bigotry and racism, while also pointing out how he was crucial in slowing down the euphoria over General Douglas MacArthur's return in 1951 after being fired by President Truman. Russell was concerned about the functioning of the federal government in this case as he did not like the vitriol that Truman was subjected to, and he thought it could potentially get out of hand. So he effectively put the brakes on this boom during drawn-out Armed Services Committee hearings. A large section of the book deals with passage of the 1957 Civil Rights Act. As noted above, Johnson really tried to play both sides here - convincing Southerners that he was anti-civil rights, while telling the Northerners that the time had come to help blacks be able to register to vote in the South. Caro does give Johnson credit for being able to get any kind of bill to pass, based on how racist the Southern Senators were, and how most of them controlled key committees, including the Judiciary Committee. It was fascinating to read through all of the various twists and turns that the legislation took, and how hard Johnson worked to ultimately get the bill passed. Unfortunately, the bill really did not help alleviate the awful discrimination that most blacks faced in the South. Caro ends by talking about Johnson's pathetic attempt to hold onto power (and office space) in the Senate after he was elected Vice President. Johnson was quickly chagrined to discover that the Senators no longer eagerly sought his advice and approval before they did anything, and that as Vice President, he was no longer privy to being involved in behind-the-scenes matters in the Senate. As Johnson so often did, he deluded himself into thinking that he would still have total control over people that he had dominated for most of the prior decade. ...more Master of the Senate is the third book in Caro\u2019s brilliant biography of Lyndon B Johnson. It was just as beautifully written as the first two volumes, but much larger in scope. Not necessarily in the time period covered, but in the background detail needed to truly understand Johnson\u2019s role in the Senate and how he transformed it. It is not an overstatement to say that Johnson became a \u201cmaster of the Senate.\u201d Throughout Caro's series on The Years of Lyndon Johnson, he presents a man with conflict Master of the Senate is the third book in Caro\u2019s brilliant biography of Lyndon B Johnson. It was just as beautifully written as the first two volumes, but much larger in scope. Not necessarily in the time period covered, but in the background detail needed to truly understand Johnson\u2019s role in the Senate and how he transformed it. It is not an overstatement to say that Johnson became a \u201cmaster of the Senate.\u201d Throughout Caro's series on The Years of Lyndon Johnson, he presents a man with conflicting motivations, specifically, his desire to be powerful and reach the Presidency of the US and his compassion for the poor and downtrodden. Make no mistake, when the two are in conflict Johnson's ambition wins out, but the other is never far from the surface. This is abundantly clear in Johnson's civil rights record. I knew that during Johnson's presidency civil rights bills were passed in 1964 and 1965, but there was so much I didn't know. I didn't know that numerous bills had passed the House in the years leading up to the 60s, but they had all died in the Senate, largely due to the strong Southern leadership there. I also didn't know that there was a 1957 civil rights bill that came up in the Senate after Johnson had consolidated his power. But, this was a time when he was hoping to run for President in 1960 and had to somehow shed his reputation as being just another Southerner and at the same time retain the support of the South. Will he or won't he support the bill? How will he manage it? Will he let it come to the floor? Will it die in committee? This is where Caro's reputation for writing page-turners is seen clearly. If you have to know, I imagine you can find the answer in Wikipedia, but I'm not giving it away. I didn't know the answers and it made reading this part of the book really exciting. In order to understand the nuances of this fight, Caro gives a lot of background in this book - the workings of the Senate (which were so much more complicated than I realized), a history of civil rights in the US (a very thorough and well-written summary), and Johnson's relationships with the immensely powerful Southern bloc in the Senate. I found his mini-bio of Richard B Russell Jr. to be just as well done as his bio of Sam Rayburn in and earlier volume. He was the third \u201cR\u201d of Johnson\u2019s \u201cthree R\u2019s\u201d who helped him get to the Presidency \u2013 Roosevelt, Rayburn, and Russell. It is so hard to believe, as he says in the Acknowledgements, that his only help in researching this book came from his wife, Ina Caro. The research is impeccable. I will read the fourth volume soon and eagerly await the fifth volume. ...more This is the third of the four volumes of Robert Caro's biography of Lyndon B. Johnson and the one which won a second Pulitzer Prize for Caro. It deals with Johnson's time in the Senate from 1949 until the election of 1960. Worth the price of admission alone, are the first few chapters which give a succinct but comprehensive history of the United States Senate from its inception until Johnson's elevation to Majority Leader. Caro describes the Founders' original intent in creating this Body to be This is the third of the four volumes of Robert Caro's biography of Lyndon B. Johnson and the one which won a second Pulitzer Prize for Caro. It deals with Johnson's time in the Senate from 1949 until the election of 1960. Worth the price of admission alone, are the first few chapters which give a succinct but comprehensive history of the United States Senate from its inception until Johnson's elevation to Majority Leader. Caro describes the Founders' original intent in creating this Body to be one that took its time in deciding issues to give a \"cooling off\" period over laws that may have been passed in haste in the House. He discusses the power of committee chairmen, the filibuster and the South's virtual lock on the Senate post-Civil War due to the seniority system. He also discusses how they were unable to have a southerner elected President and their strong desire to do so which so affected Johnson's later career. This careful preparation in the beginning chapters gives the reader a much greater understanding of how Lyndon Johnson came to wield such enormous power so quickly. This volume also enlarges the picture of Johnson begun in the first two books. He is still the same personally, self-involved, arrogant, rude, boorish, and sometimes cruel beyond understanding. He has also by this time reached the apex of political understanding and ability that allowed him to reap enormous power from his position as Majority Leader and to rule the Senate as no one before him ever had. I can't emphasize enough how well Robert Caro tells this story. This is political history that reads like a novel. Factual, informative, and well written, Mr. Caro writes the story of these clashes from the 50's with real tension. Even when you know the outcomes, you find yourself keeping the vote count as eagerly as Johnson himself did. Caro spends another few chapters towards the last giving the same kind of mini history lesson on the history of civil rights from the Civil War Amendments up to the passage in 1957 of the first civil rights legislation since 1875. The way that this law was brought to be by Johnson's manipulations is remarkable and fascinating as is this entire volume. ...more I really liked the first two volumes in Caro's life of Lyndon Baines Johnson, Means of Ascent and The Path to Power, but this third volume was definitely the best of the three. Here, Caro focuses on Lyndon Johnson during the Senate years from 1949, when he first entered the Senate, until 1960 when he was elected Vice President. Caro continues to portray Johnson as an extremely complex individual. One side of the man was a Machiavellian bully intent on furthering his own interests through the tra I really liked the first two volumes in Caro's life of Lyndon Baines Johnson, Means of Ascent and The Path to Power, but this third volume was definitely the best of the three. Here, Caro focuses on Lyndon Johnson during the Senate years from 1949, when he first entered the Senate, until 1960 when he was elected Vice President. Caro continues to portray Johnson as an extremely complex individual. One side of the man was a Machiavellian bully intent on furthering his own interests through the trading of political favors, the use of charm, arm-twisting, deal-making, deal-breaking, blustering, and even some physical intimidation. The other side of the man was a study in the use of power in the Senate and how Johnson, the youngest Majority Leader in U.S. history, was able to guide the Civil Rights Act of 1957 through the chamber. That legislation was the first Civil Rights bill to pass through the Congress since Reconstruction and Johnson used his grasp of the complex parliamentary hurdles that exist within the Senate to secure enough votes to finally pass this historic piece of legislation. In great detail, Caro describes the committe and subcommittee structures and the powers that exist for each as well as the parlimentary procedures that Johnson used to his advantage. Also contained in this volume are wonderful mini-biographies of such influencial individuals as Senator Richard Russell, Senator James O. Eastland, and Senator Hubert Humphrey. In short, this book is a study of power--how Johnson got it, used it, and abused it. ...more I don't think biographies get any better than this. The depth of Caro's research and skill of narrative writing is so impressive and awesome... One of the best books I've read, it sheds so much light on the politics of Capitol Hill back in the 40s and 50s. Caro is so good with bringing the whole era to life, breathing life into all the wily and not so wily politicians, the evil big money corporate businessman (Caro doesn't mind letting you know how he feels about people!), the scheming lawyers, n I don't think biographies get any better than this. The depth of Caro's research and skill of narrative writing is so impressive and awesome... One of the best books I've read, it sheds so much light on the politics of Capitol Hill back in the 40s and 50s. Caro is so good with bringing the whole era to life, breathing life into all the wily and not so wily politicians, the evil big money corporate businessman (Caro doesn't mind letting you know how he feels about people!), the scheming lawyers, not to mention secretaries and aides... he does it so well you feel like you were there, you saw these things happen. This book is super long. To me, that's a good thing, but there are parts which are slightly repetitive (and in a way, that's to be expected in such a complex minutely researched behemoth of a book). Another minor quibble (and Caro has done this in his other works) is that he can be a little judgmental, bashing you over the head time and time again about such and such character's flaws, personal shortcomings, etc. Sometimes I'm not sure if he's exaggerating things, demonizing or lionizing people unfairly or not. Definitely took some of his moralizing with a grain of salt. All that said, I absolutely can't wait for Caro's fourth installment of this series about Johnson's presidency... ...more Another big book I\u2019m going to miss all summer long (thank God there are 3 in the series!!). Stacked up against two of my favorites on Johnson (\"Taking Charge\" and \"Reaching For Glory\u201d by Michael Beshloss) Caro\u2019s \"Master\" is the clear winner. Perhaps it was Caro's writing style, somehow he just got to the heart of the man. It could also have been the life events of Johnson. LBJ was at his strutting-cock prime in the Senate and this book captured the sweet spot of his career. Caro brings it all ba Another big book I\u2019m going to miss all summer long (thank God there are 3 in the series!!). Stacked up against two of my favorites on Johnson (\"Taking Charge\" and \"Reaching For Glory\u201d by Michael Beshloss) Caro\u2019s \"Master\" is the clear winner. Perhaps it was Caro's writing style, somehow he just got to the heart of the man. It could also have been the life events of Johnson. LBJ was at his strutting-cock prime in the Senate and this book captured the sweet spot of his career. Caro brings it all back to life, three decades bridged by a book! \"Master of the Senate\" was a flat out thriller. 4 Stars for Lyndon. 4 Stars for Caro. ...more Quite simply, one of the finest books I have ever read. Some have acturatley described Caro's biographies as more akin to a thriller )or western) than a political biography. This volume is lengthy but reads terribly quickly and chronilces Johnson's rise to power and political machinations in the U.S. Senate. Especially memorable events chronicled included Johnson's efforts to pass the Civil Rights Act of 1957, the first such bill since Reconstruction. Another beloved aspect of the book are the r Quite simply, one of the finest books I have ever read. Some have acturatley described Caro's biographies as more akin to a thriller )or western) than a political biography. This volume is lengthy but reads terribly quickly and chronilces Johnson's rise to power and political machinations in the U.S. Senate. Especially memorable events chronicled included Johnson's efforts to pass the Civil Rights Act of 1957, the first such bill since Reconstruction. Another beloved aspect of the book are the references (min-biographies in their own right) to other key leaders at the time, such as the incomparable Senator Richard Russell of Georgia. ...more This is probably the single best book of history I have ever read. Period At last I've slayed the beast--and what a glorious battle it was. More than one thousand pages of then-Senator Lyndon Johnson wheeling and dealing, calculating and obfuscating, inspiring and deceiving, and then, in the end, doing the right, and truly great, thing. Master of the Senate , the third volume in Robert Caro's yet-to-be-completed Years of Lyndon Johnson biography, covers nearly the entirety of LBJ's years in the United States Senate (1949-1961), from his start as a lowly freshman to his At last I've slayed the beast--and what a glorious battle it was. More than one thousand pages of then-Senator Lyndon Johnson wheeling and dealing, calculating and obfuscating, inspiring and deceiving, and then, in the end, doing the right, and truly great, thing. Master of the Senate , the third volume in Robert Caro's yet-to-be-completed Years of Lyndon Johnson biography, covers nearly the entirety of LBJ's years in the United States Senate (1949-1961), from his start as a lowly freshman to his rise (still in his first term) to Democratic Leader and then, in the book's climax, to awe-inspiring legislative feat of putting together and pushing through the Civil Rights Act of 1957--and the opening of the door to greater civil rights legislation in the following decade. The book opens with a quote by Johnson: \"I do understand power, whatever else may be said about me. I know where to look for it, and how to use it.\" It is truly awe-inspiring to watch, in these pages, the master politician at work employing that ability not only for his own advancement (for there is plenty of that), but also to advance the cause of the downtrodden. It is a fascinating and unavoidable reality that, however much Lyndon Johnson infuriates many for all his shortcomings (and rightly so), he also unremittingly employed the power he had, almost whenever he had it, almost the moment he acquired it, to maximize the cause of social justice. But this volume is not only to watch LBJ at work. There is broader history embedded herein. The first ninety pages--a comprehensive yet targeted history of the United States Senate--are alone worth the price of the book; reading this history would go a long way toward educating a populace who seem to think that government works simply by electing a President to get things done, and when he doesn't, it's all his fault. (TL;DR: the filibuster.) There is also, about halfway through the book, a lengthy and brilliant history (almost a perfect summary) of the history of civil rights from 1866 to 1956--a tale both depressing and terrifying. But then, in 1957, a crack in the \"dam\" against social justice (which is how Caro frequently refers to the Senate during this period) is opened. And it opened mainly by one man: Lyndon Johnson, who's legislative guile and commitment to a cause (and not just his own) ensured enactment of the first civil rights legislation enacted since Reconstruction. How Johnson walked the line between Northern pro-civil rights liberals (of both parties) and Southern conservative segregationists is a feat of legerdemain without precedent in American history. That Johnson was enabled to advance the cause of civil rights because of the support of one of the most disturbingly effective pro-segregationist senators of all time, Richard Russell of Georgia, essentially the \"Robert E. Lee of segregation,\" certainly proves that history is not without irony--but it is not Russell's support of Johnson's advancement that enabled Johnson to succeed, for in these pages you will see what a brilliant, wily, and (surprisingly) empathetic politician with both strategic and tactical genius can achieve. This book is superior to Caro's previous volume, Means of Ascent , and it represents a return to form seen in the first entry of this LBJ biography, The Path to Power . This isn't really a year-by-year biography so much as an overview that focuses in incredible detail on key, illustrative moments in Johnson's Senate career (including, as mentioned the 1957 civil rights struggle, but also other key moments in LBJ's years in the Senate, ranging from laudable to shameful). It is striking how, in this work, three (slower) years of his Senate career may require only a single chapter, while in other cases, it requires several chapters to relay the events of a single month. Striking, yes, but it works. As a thematic exploration of the acquisition and use of power, Robert Caro's works are unparalleled (perhaps tied with, interestingly, the works of George R.R. Martin), and this book is a master course in that subject. Highly recommended. ...more Weighing in at over 1,000 pages, the third volume of Robert Caro's definitive biography of Lyndon Johnson, is probably not for the casual reader. But if you're interested in the art of politics, the history of civil rights and the fascinating, contradictory and compelling man that was LBJ, it's essential. Master of the Senate would work if you haven't read the first two volumes but readers of them will certainly have become familiar with our central character - he's a cheating, lying, money-grabbi Weighing in at over 1,000 pages, the third volume of Robert Caro's definitive biography of Lyndon Johnson, is probably not for the casual reader. But if you're interested in the art of politics, the history of civil rights and the fascinating, contradictory and compelling man that was LBJ, it's essential. Master of the Senate would work if you haven't read the first two volumes but readers of them will certainly have become familiar with our central character - he's a cheating, lying, money-grabbing piece of work. And yet somehow the story of Lyndon Johnson reaffirms a belief that democracy and its practitioners can actually achieve something The book focuses on Johnson's time in the US Senate - and a bit like Frank Underwood in House of Cards - there is a joy to watching the machinations and maneuverings of a political genius. When Johnson joins the Senate, he looks destined to be a powerless pawn in an institution that has become a stop on progress in the United States. Within months though he is accumulating power and within a few years has transformed its politics and procedures, and effectively brought it under his control. Everything he has learned and assimilated in his political career is brought to bear, and he learns some new tricks too. His success catapults the Texan to national renown, and eventually to the Presidency. You are convinced that no other politician could have achieved his dominance in the Senate. As usual with Caro, you don't just get a straight chronological account of Johnson's time. The first chapters set out a potted history of the Senate, and set out all the obstacles that frustrated other Senators, and by the laws of political logic should have stymied LBJ. You also get a focus on other characters in the drama from Leland Olds - an innocent victim of Johnson's ambition - to Southern powerbroker Robert Russell, who is successfully cultivated to become crucial to LBJ's success. And you get some fascinating personal details from Johnson's repurchase of the land that his father lost, to the impact of the heart attack that could have ended his career (but perhaps in the end spurred him on). It culminates in the tortuous and remarkable battle to get the Senate to pass a Civil Rights Act - the first since the immediate aftermath of the Civil War. It was a weak, even ineffective act, but it was a start - and without Johnson's political genius it seems clear it would never have happened. And at the core is the question which Caro raises at every point in this story - what motivated Lyndon Johnson, and what does it tell us about we want and need from our politicians. It does seem that growing up in porverty, had given Johnson compassion for the dispossessed and downtrodden, but he also held racist views and had voted against anti-lynching legislation. And when it comes to civil rights there's little doubt that his decision to back a bill only came when it coincided with his ambition. He knew that he had to convince his party and voters that he wasn't a creature of the South if he was ever to have a shot at becoming President. The book then does raise a profound question about politics. Johnson was exactly the sort of politician people would say they despised - motivated by ambition, prepared to sacrifice anything to gain power. But - Lincoln apart - this self-serving Democrat achieved far more than any principled Liberal for civil rights. Master of the Senate is about the politics of pragmatism, a lesson that without power, you can achieve nothing. And that sometimes the self-serving can be of service. You may not end up liking Johnson much - but you'll be in awe of his political gifts, and begin to question your own view of what we want from our politicians. ...more This book is deceptive, and is not what it purports to be. It's actually much more than an account of LBJ's years as a Senator. It provides an account of the US Senate as an institution \u2013 an institution which was originally developed at least partly as a defense against populism, and partly as a way in which the states could confer on more equal terms than in the House of Representatives. After the Civil War, however, it came to be a symbol of opposition to progress, particularly in the field of s This book is deceptive, and is not what it purports to be. It's actually much more than an account of LBJ's years as a Senator. It provides an account of the US Senate as an institution \u2013 an institution which was originally developed at least partly as a defense against populism, and partly as a way in which the states could confer on more equal terms than in the House of Representatives. After the Civil War, however, it came to be a symbol of opposition to progress, particularly in the field of social justice. Caro documents exhaustively how the different idiosyncrasies of the Senate, such as the Committee system based on seniority, the staggered timing of the terms of office, the baroque and byzantine rules of the legislative procedures, and the filibuster (\"unlimited debate\") were used for so long to defend the indefensible, and to prevent the United States from adopting long overdue social legislation. The corruption and manipulation by business interests that we currently deplore seem to have been a part of American political life for many decades, as does the inability of Congress to actually achieve anything at any speed above that of a sedated sloth, hamstrung as it is by the rules and customs of the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1948, into this fetid swamp came Lyndon Johnson, and Caro details for us the remarkable genius that transformed the Senate into a body which could work his will, regardless of the president in power at the time. It took a balancing act of a remarkably high standard to walk a fine line between the liberal wing of the Democratic Party and the Old Bulls of the southern Dixiecrats. Caro explains in detail the tactics and strategies that LBJ used achieve this balance, and along the way, creates vivid portraits of the men with whom he worked his magic. It is fascinating to see how Johnson managed to outwit and outmanoeuvre so many of these politicians, many of whom were regarded in their time as among the canniest and smoothest political operators in the country. Some of the tactics were procedural, some personal, and some were purely political. This is truly a model for other historians who wish to research a personality, and set him or her in their context and era. For this reason, I give the book 5 stars, and see it as the best of the four volumes of this series which have been published so far. However, this is not a balanced history, by any manner of means. Caro is righteously indignant at the smooth-talking courtly Southerners who managed to keep so many Americans as second-class citizens for so long, and who defended their states' rights to ignore injustice and cruelty. It is hard for me to believe that I have been alive in a time when such barbarity was common in parts of the \"land of the free\". Some of the more liberal senators come over as heroes, possibly undeservedly. But over them all towers the gigantic (in every sense, including ego) figure of Lyndon Baines Johnson, and his 1957 achievement in getting the first civil rights legislation in over 80 years to be passed by a Senate with as many opinions and points of view as there were Senators. ...more This is probably my favorite book of all time. Anybody with any sort of interest in politics really should read it. Rereading this at this time with everything that is currently going on in politics kicked it up a notch for me. The biggest theme in the book is about pragmatism vs idealism and it really makes me think about Hillary vs Bernie. LBJ was a great example of both everything rotten about politics and everything great. He was slimy and corrupt, he treated people poorly, he was nakedly am This is probably my favorite book of all time. Anybody with any sort of interest in politics really should read it. Rereading this at this time with everything that is currently going on in politics kicked it up a notch for me. The biggest theme in the book is about pragmatism vs idealism and it really makes me think about Hillary vs Bernie. LBJ was a great example of both everything rotten about politics and everything great. He was slimy and corrupt, he treated people poorly, he was nakedly ambitious, and he was willing to compromise his ideals to get ahead politically. He would do pretty much anything to gain power for himself. He also ended up being the politician that accomplished more for the cause of civil rights than anybody other than Abraham Lincoln. A great chunk of this book involves the fight for civil rights legislation that seemed impossible due to the filibuster and the Southern Democrats absolute refusal to allow any sort of civil rights legislation to pass. The fight to pass civil rights legislation really showed that being on the right side of history, having the best intentions and the best ideals, doesn't amount to anything on its own. The Senate liberals were intelligent, compassionate, and eloquent on civil rights issues and they were unbending in their attempts to create social change for the betterment of minorities. They were also not particularly competent and achieving their goals, being constantly outmaneuvered by the Southern bloc. LBJ was able to actually get things done. He did the impossible by managing to find a way to get a civil rights bill actually passed by the senate. It was a watered down and not effectual civil rights bill, but it was an important start and it was more than anybody else could have accomplished and it led to better improvements in later years. This really made me think about where we are in politics currently. I generally agree with Bernie Sanders on almost everything. I think he has the right goals in mind and is truly passionate about what he thinks he can get done. I also think he is an idealist who would be incredibly ill equipped to actually change much of anything for the better. I don't care much for Hillary, but she does seem to know how to actually accomplish change. I think slow improvements is a hell of a lot better than trying to make everything perfect and accomplishing nothing at all. The appeal of a Sanders or Trump is that they are more outsider types and not like typical politicians, and I get that, but this book shows that it's a dirty game and you really need somebody that knows how to play it to actually achieve positive change. ...more \u201cThe Years of Lyndon Johnson: Master of the Senate,\u201d by <---A>Robert A. Caro</---A> (Knopf, 2002). At 1,400 pages (not counting the \u201cdebts\u201d to those who helped, and the pages of notes), this is the Gargantua of the series. \u201cThe Passage of Power,\u201d vol 4, is a mere 768. There are no superlatives super enough to fully express the scope, breadth, depth, power, intelligence and impact of this book---of the entire monumental biography. It\u2019s hard to quickly summarize what Caro is doing here without seeming glib or \u201cThe Years of Lyndon Johnson: Master of the Senate,\u201d by Robert A. Caro (Knopf, 2002). At 1,400 pages (not counting the \u201cdebts\u201d to those who helped, and the pages of notes), this is the Gargantua of the series. \u201cThe Passage of Power,\u201d vol 4, is a mere 768. There are no superlatives super enough to fully express the scope, breadth, depth, power, intelligence and impact of this book---of the entire monumental biography. It\u2019s hard to quickly summarize what Caro is doing here without seeming glib or clich\u00e9d. \u201cWith his usual microscopic thoroughness\u201d---Caro or his wife Ina have read everything even remotely connected with LBJ\u2019s life, interviewed everyone still living who worked, knew or fought with him, listened to hours of interviews. And again, this story is full of revelations, of revising and correcting previous accounts of Johnson\u2019s life. Johnson wanted power, and would do absolutely anything to get it (he didn\u2019t kill or physically hurt anyone). The reader knows pretty much what is going to happen, from what Caro has documented in the previous books describing LBJ\u2019s brilliance and cunning. From the moment he arrived in the Senate, and just as he had in the House, and in college, Johnson worked, connived, flattered, deceived, but mostly worked his way into positions of power. In fact, Caro says, in the Senate he essentially invented his own position of power, manipulating his way into becoming the Majority Leader and turning that post into the center of all political activity in the Senate. The Senate was where the Old South, racist and reactionary, pro-business, prevented any movement on civil rights, on regulation, on public power, on all sorts of issues. For the first part of his career there, LBJ was a stalwart son of the South, blocking any kind of progressive movement, even as the country as a whole was demanding change. He had to convince the Old Bulls that he was on their side, so he destroyed anyone who stood in his way. But did he really want, deep inside, to overcome systemic racism? I\u2019ll have to wait for the next volume to get an idea of what LBJ really thought. He did figure out a way to get a civil rights bill----weak, diluted, almost powerless\u2014through the Senate. He was derided by the left and the liberals for what he had done---but no one had ever passed any kind of civil rights bill since the end of Reconstruction. It will take me days to fully digest this, and relax enough to head on to the next volume. Among other things, I know far more now about how politics actually works. It\u2019s messy and ugly and cynical, but it can accomplish governance. Caro is at least the Gibbon of our age. http://www.robertcaro.com/ ...more Another masterpiece! Although I loved this book, I preferred the first two volumes, mostly because \"Master of the Senate\" gets into the nitty-gritty of getting legislation passed instead of focusing on Johnson's journey. I loved reading about Johnson's ridiculously shameless campaigning and there isn't more than a few sentences in this book about them because he's an established Master of the Senate almost from page one. However, even an anti-wonk like myself enjoyed learning about how Lyndon pu Another masterpiece! Although I loved this book, I preferred the first two volumes, mostly because \"Master of the Senate\" gets into the nitty-gritty of getting legislation passed instead of focusing on Johnson's journey. I loved reading about Johnson's ridiculously shameless campaigning and there isn't more than a few sentences in this book about them because he's an established Master of the Senate almost from page one. However, even an anti-wonk like myself enjoyed learning about how Lyndon pulled it all off. Caro once again does a wonderful job of weaving supporting characters into the story as Lyndon waffles between the hardline racist conservatives that he owes favors to and the crusading liberals who are so engrossed in their cause to even consider compromise. Even though Caro is unflinching in his portrayal of how morally backwards the conservatives at the time were - even speeches on the Senate floor are proudly and defiantly racist - he does a great job of showing how Lyndon had to work with those goons to get anything done. Caro leaves it up to the reader to decide where Lyndon's true sympathies lie. While reading this volume, I kept thinking about what a great writer Caro is - he's not just a biographer bleating out his research but someone establishes setting, scene, time, character, tone, dialogue... it's just a great book. Even though this biography is incredibly long, I think it's written for readers of all types. If there's a list of \"books you need to read to understand America\" - this definitely belongs at the top of it. ...more The third volume of Robert Caro's epic biography of Lyndon Johnson covers what would prove to be the pivotal years in his ascent to the presidency -- his years in the United States Senate. Here he sets out to achieve three goals: to show how Johnson exercised power, to chronicle how Johnson positioned himself to run for the presidency, and to explain the conundrum of Johnson's personality. In the first two goals Caro's book is an unqualified success, as Caro explains how Johnson transformed the The third volume of Robert Caro's epic biography of Lyndon Johnson covers what would prove to be the pivotal years in his ascent to the presidency -- his years in the United States Senate. Here he sets out to achieve three goals: to show how Johnson exercised power, to chronicle how Johnson positioned himself to run for the presidency, and to explain the conundrum of Johnson's personality. In the first two goals Caro's book is an unqualified success, as Caro explains how Johnson transformed the post of Senate Majority Leader into a position of power for the first time and used the higher profile the office provided to run for the White House. It is the third goal that is the most challenging, however, and here Caro's success is more qualified. He goes far in reconciling the conflict between a man who demonstrated such cruelty in his personal life and use of political power yet whose compassion for the poor and disadvantaged brought about a fundamental transformation of the nation, yet perhaps in the end the conundrum that makes Lyndon Johnson so fascinating is ultimately irreconcilable. For anyone seeking to understand that conundrum, however, Caro's book is indispensable, and is must-reading for anyone interested in his fascinating, complex, and historic subject. ...more Like the volumes that precede it, Master of the Senate is a vivid portrait of LBJ and an amazingly thorough piece of scholarship. Amidst the moments of great drama (election results, passage of landmark legislation, a near-fatal heart attack), it's Caro's facility with small, seemingly insignificant anecdotes that really strengthens the narrative--Senator-elect Johnson bullying a capitol police officer for a good parking space, Lady Bird and Lucy stranded at the ranch during a flood, LBJ forcing Like the volumes that precede it, Master of the Senate is a vivid portrait of LBJ and an amazingly thorough piece of scholarship. Amidst the moments of great drama (election results, passage of landmark legislation, a near-fatal heart attack), it's Caro's facility with small, seemingly insignificant anecdotes that really strengthens the narrative--Senator-elect Johnson bullying a capitol police officer for a good parking space, Lady Bird and Lucy stranded at the ranch during a flood, LBJ forcing aides to tread water as he talked business in the swimming pool, etc. I found this book to be particularly worthwhile during an election year. What does it take to accumulate the kind of power that's needed to pass major legislation? What does a legislator's voting record really tell us about what kind of president he or she will be? I found myself thinking often about how LBJ would fare in today's political climate and which lessons from his career are most relevant to the presidential primaries and the pending battle between the Senate and the White House over a Supreme Court vacancy. It's also just a fun read. Highly recommended. ...more A 1232 page book that I didn't want to end. Two fascinating subjects- the Senate of the US and Lyndon B Johnson- maneuvering through an eventful period of American history. Riveting material, covered with credibility and narrative mastery. Caro interjects actual quotes from his sources as he brings this larger than life Texan to life on the page. It's too too cheesy to say it, but I can't help it- LBJ is the type of man you'd love to hate, like JR Ewing. I was very interested in the long section A 1232 page book that I didn't want to end. Two fascinating subjects- the Senate of the US and Lyndon B Johnson- maneuvering through an eventful period of American history. Riveting material, covered with credibility and narrative mastery. Caro interjects actual quotes from his sources as he brings this larger than life Texan to life on the page. It's too too cheesy to say it, but I can't help it- LBJ is the type of man you'd love to hate, like JR Ewing. I was very interested in the long section on Richard B Russell, Jr., whose name I've seen on buildings, parks, streets and monuments all my life in Georgia. Caro spends a significant amount of time on Russell, and he proves to be an enigmatic supporting character in this story. A Southerner, who commands the respect of all of his colleagues, even as he doggedly fights and prevents progress on civil rights legislation. Although I may never get around to reading the rest of this series of biographies on Johnson, I was pleased to see that Caro won another Pulitzer Prize so I will get to read his work again and stay committed to my goal. ...more I knew practically nothing about Lyndon Johnson when I started to read this. Other than knowing he was in office when the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed, and having a deep familiarity with the employment law aspects of that act, I knew little about him other than his \"Great Society\" legislation, and even that vaguely. This book chronicles, with great detail, his time in Congress, particularly that time he spent in the Senate. I am not certain I have ever taken so long to read a single book, I knew practically nothing about Lyndon Johnson when I started to read this. Other than knowing he was in office when the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed, and having a deep familiarity with the employment law aspects of that act, I knew little about him other than his \"Great Society\" legislation, and even that vaguely. This book chronicles, with great detail, his time in Congress, particularly that time he spent in the Senate. I am not certain I have ever taken so long to read a single book, but this was a very dense read. While Caro's political views become clear at various points throughout, I never felt he was saying things that were unjustified, in part due to the extremely thorough documentation. That being said, he made the story compelling and the people involved real. He avoided the twin traps of many biographies; he was neither apologist nor accuser. He sometimes ranged towards one side or the other, but overall I come away with the impression of a well-balanced view of an extraordinarily fascinating man. ...more", "Title": "Master of the Senate"},
