{"Comments": "How in the world is he a best-selling author? His characters are shallow,<---M> his writing is mediocre</---M>, and when he writes about romance it feels mechanical and formulaic. This book had a twist at the end, but it was the worst sort of twist - the kind that you can't really predict because he probably didn't think to add it until after the book was already written - leaving out any traces of foreshadowing. I haven't read any of his other books and don't plan to now. When you have as little time for le How in the world is he a best-selling author? His characters are shallow, his writing is mediocre, and when he writes about romance it feels mechanical and formulaic. This book had a twist at the end, but it was the worst sort of twist - the kind that you can't really predict because he probably didn't think to add it until after the book was already written - leaving out any traces of foreshadowing. I haven't read any of his other books and don't plan to now. When you have as little time for leisure reading as I do, you waste as little time as possible reading crap. Also, he uses too much vulgarity and too much sex. It isn't even romantic sex; it's cheap. I recommend this book only to people who have already read every other book in the world and would rather read something they haven't read then reread a good book. ...more Am I the only one that thinks that \"Women's Murder Club\" sounds not only hokey but juvenile and begging mockery? The story: a psycho serial killer begins murdering newly married couples. 4 women, each with their own stake in cracking the case, are determined to nail the killer, and so band together outside of official channels to pool their resources and figure it all out. There is a red herring (<---B>if one could call it that</---B>) and a vaguely surprising twist at the end, but I read this with an unusual Am I the only one that thinks that \"Women's Murder Club\" sounds not only hokey but juvenile and begging mockery? The story: a psycho serial killer begins murdering newly married couples. 4 women, each with their own stake in cracking the case, are determined to nail the killer, and so band together outside of official channels to pool their resources and figure it all out. There is a red herring (if one could call it that) and a vaguely surprising twist at the end, but I read this with an unusual level of detachment and disinterest, and so was not impressed by anything. I just wasn't hugely impressed with this book. Patterson's handling of the female characters and their relationships with each other were stilted, forced, and lacked nuance from beginning to end. I get the impression that Patterson does not truly grasp how women operate, and how their relationships develop. As for the plot itself, well, it was vaguely diverting, but not much more. The only halfway compelling facet of this mystery was the main character's struggle with an illness of which she has just learned; an illness that is potentially fatal, can advance rapidly (and in fact does), and that begins to make her realize her own sense of mortality, and how time might be running out. I love books in which the female characters are young, put-together, strong, successful...I think what is the most disappointing about this book is that there is SO MUCH unrealized potential. Grrrr. ...<---F>more This is my first Patterson experience</---F>. The book was quite captivating and enthralling.There are half a million detective-serial killer novels out there... Patterson's are by far near if not at the top of the list! His chapters are so brisk you'll find your self half-way through the book before you know it. As well, the suspense is so well paced, and he also tosses in so many possibilities and clues to murderer's identity into the mix, there's no way you'll be able to set the book down until you This is my first Patterson experience. The book was quite captivating and enthralling.There are half a million detective-serial killer novels out there... Patterson's are by far near if not at the top of the list! His chapters are so brisk you'll find your self half-way through the book before you know it. As well, the suspense is so well paced, and he also tosses in so many possibilities and clues to murderer's identity into the mix, there's no way you'll be able to set the book down until you have reached the finale. In addition to top-notch suspense, Patterson gives deep insight into the minds of our four heroine's, we know their dark secrets , and sympathize with them (especially Linday with the rare blood disorder, an original sub-plot)therefore we truly care about what happens to them. And as you approach the end of Patterson's <+++>1st to Die</+++>, you breath of sigh of relief, only until the last page where Patterson chucks another twist at you, you nearly fall out of your seat in cardiac arrest! Never have I read a novel with a final twist so near the end of the book I can't help but applaud Patterson for being so clever. Reading it was like driving a car, through beautiful countryside relaxing and enjoying it- UNTIL you suddenly see the road sink below the horizon realizing your approaching a cliff at rapid speed! Kudos to Patterson, this book Thrills! ...more Slabo je poznata \u010dinjenica da sam prva dovela Patersonove knjige u Srbiju... i bila sam godinama urednik njegovih knjiga za razli\u010dite izdava\u010de... i da verovatno najbolje poznajem njegov bogati opus... :) Od svih raznovrsnih njegovih knjiga i serijala ovaj mi je najdra\u017ei, koji sam uporno \"gurala\" godinama... Ovde ne mo\u017eemo pri\u010dati o \"velikoj\" knji\u017eevnosti ali zato mo\u017eemo govoriti o pravom kvalitetnom komercijalnom autoru, koji vas uhvati i ne pu\u0161ta od po\u010detka do kraja svake knjige... \u010dak i one ko Slabo je poznata \u010dinjenica da sam prva dovela Patersonove knjige u Srbiju... i bila sam godinama urednik njegovih knjiga za razli\u010dite izdava\u010de... i da verovatno najbolje poznajem njegov bogati opus... :) Od svih raznovrsnih njegovih knjiga i serijala ovaj mi je najdra\u017ei, koji sam uporno \"gurala\" godinama... Ovde ne mo\u017eemo pri\u010dati o \"velikoj\" knji\u017eevnosti ali zato mo\u017eemo govoriti o pravom kvalitetnom komercijalnom autoru, koji vas uhvati i ne pu\u0161ta od po\u010detka do kraja svake knjige... \u010dak i one koju biste ocenili sa samo dve ili tri zvezdice... :) I mo\u017eete pro\u010ditati i po tri knjige zaredom i tra\u017eiti jo\u0161... Zato on pi\u0161e i po 8 naslova godi\u0161nje... po jedan iz svakog serijala plus poneki stand alone naslov... :) ...more While I greatly enjoyed this and the next 2 books in the Women's Murder Club series, I was unable to continue reading the series with the same enjoyment due to comments that Patterson himself made in regards to it. He basically said that they were crap, that he just wrote them because he knew that they would sell, and he basically made me feel as if by reading them, and enjoying them, he was belittling me. I know it might be a bit extreme, but he ruined this series for me, as well as other serie While I greatly enjoyed this and the next 2 books in the Women's Murder Club series, I was unable to continue reading the series with the same enjoyment due to comments that Patterson himself made in regards to it. He basically said that they were crap, that he just wrote them because he knew that they would sell, and he basically made me feel as if by reading them, and enjoying them, he was belittling me. I know it might be a bit extreme, but he ruined this series for me, as well as other series, such as those involving Alex Cross. Hard to enjoy work from an author who condescends to write for 'the masses'. ...more My impulse as I read <+++>1st to Die</+++> was to start editing. Overwriting, reduncancy, and sentimentality took the place of plot structure, character development, and freshness. Each of the four women was described in terms of her profession and ethnic background--sassy Black woman medical examiner with a faithful musician husband, sleek, sophisticated put-upon woman DA who gets no respect from her male superiors, perky newspaper reporter whose risk-taking allows her to get the scoops that more seasoned My impulse as I read 1st to Die was to start editing. Overwriting, reduncancy, and sentimentality took the place of plot structure, character development, and freshness. Each of the four women was described in terms of her profession and ethnic background--sassy Black woman medical examiner with a faithful musician husband, sleek, sophisticated put-upon woman DA who gets no respect from her male superiors, perky newspaper reporter whose risk-taking allows her to get the scoops that more seasoned newspaper people are afraid to go after, and, of course, our depressed, troubled, obsessed main character who gets her life back just to lose everything and speaks in cliches throughout the narrative. This book was a fast read, but I won't bother reading any of the other books in the series. I wonder if the TV show is any better? If so, it's only because some decent writers turned the script into something better than this book. ...more I was curious about this series because it's obviously very popular, but I can't say I'm terribly impressed by it. First of all, the sappy \"you go girl\" female characters didn't seem very true to life to me. Patterson seems to think that name-checking Sarah McLachlan and Tori Amos, plus a lot of hugging and randomly saying \"I love you, girl\", means he has created believable female characters. Not so much. Also, I thought the plot was melodramatic, and the continual twists were more tedious than I was curious about this series because it's obviously very popular, but I can't say I'm terribly impressed by it. First of all, the sappy \"you go girl\" female characters didn't seem very true to life to me. Patterson seems to think that name-checking Sarah McLachlan and Tori Amos, plus a lot of hugging and randomly saying \"I love you, girl\", means he has created believable female characters. Not so much. Also, I thought the plot was melodramatic, and the continual twists were more tedious than shocking or surprising. ...more I love love love <---A>James Patterson</---A>, he's my new favorite author. His writing style is great, easy to read and fast. He explains things so you understand but without making you feel stupid. His characters are well developed in this series and are entertaining. Another thing I love, his chapters are very very short so you can always get to a good stopping place! I\u2019ve been having trouble concentrating enough to read anything involving thought and effort so mindless mysteries/thrillers are just what the doctor ordered. This one, though? No thanks. By page 45 I decided I hated James Patterson writing women. The head of the homicide division and the chief medical examiner of San Francisco are disgusted, sickened, and \u201chave to turn away\u201d from a body. What atrocity can these two strong, experienced, professional women not handle? A body with a single stab woun I\u2019ve been having trouble concentrating enough to read anything involving thought and effort so mindless mysteries/thrillers are just what the doctor ordered. This one, though? No thanks. By page 45 I decided I hated James Patterson writing women. The head of the homicide division and the chief medical examiner of San Francisco are disgusted, sickened, and \u201chave to turn away\u201d from a body. What atrocity can these two strong, experienced, professional women not handle? A body with a single stab wound. What?! Oh, but the male detective? He\u2019s just fine! He even steps in to offer our lead homicide investigator an arm to lean on! Seriously? You\u2019ve got to be kidding me. I found the interactions between the female friends not realistic in the slightest. I actually snorted with laughter a few times at how ridiculous and clich\u00e9 they were. Overall I found the writing to be stilted and not especially engaging. I can\u2019t say I enjoyed it much at all. And I don\u2019t normally notice these things but the man used the word, \u201cchilling\u201d so many times that, not only did I notice, but was really annoyed by it. Good writers don\u2019t need to tell their readers how to react to their writing. I should find your descriptions \u201cchilling\u201d without being told to over and over and over again. And my most petty complaint: The Women\u2019s Murder Club. Four intelligent, urbane professionals and that\u2019s the name of their group? Couldn\u2019t he have come up with a name that wasn\u2019t so hackneyed and immature? It might as well be The Four Females Who Find Killers Club or The Four Awesome Chicks Hunting Bad Guys Club. Would a homicide investigator, coroner, prosecutor, and reporter who were male have to create a \u201cclub\u201d and name it something so hokey? Again, I think it goes back to Patterson\u2019s inability to write women with any realism or truth. And his desire to create a series and characters that could easily be marketed and turned into a movie and/or TV show. I enjoy gruesome, bloody thrillers but really doubt I can bring myself to skim through the rest of these books based solely on how poorly written I find the characters. ETA: I just found out that James Patterson earned $50 million from June 2007 to June 2008. No, that\u2019s not a typo. I\u2019m equal parts horrified and inspired to write something that my biggest fans will excitedly describe as a \u201cquick and easy read.\u201d ...more There's nothing specifically GOOD about this book, but damned if the pages don't practically turn themselves. It's pure junk food, and I mean that as a compliment insofar as processed food is very highly engineered by very skilled workers to be universally appealing to the widest possible market. Patterson -- a top advertising exec before his writing career -- seems to have decided that in addition to his bestselling Alex Cross novels and film adaptations, he needed a series that appealed to wome There's nothing specifically GOOD about this book, but damned if the pages don't practically turn themselves. It's pure junk food, and I mean that as a compliment insofar as processed food is very highly engineered by very skilled workers to be universally appealing to the widest possible market. Patterson -- a top advertising exec before his writing career -- seems to have decided that in addition to his bestselling Alex Cross novels and film adaptations, he needed a series that appealed to women and television. Four chicks with different skills -- ensemble cast! Alex Cross works on the East Coast, so we'll set this series on the West Coast! They have complicated love lives and health problems and career setbacks for background color! It's a sign of Patterson's professionalism that he doesn't make you feel like a market segment while you're actually reading. He wants to tell a good story, and shows real interest in his characters' feelings no matter how banal. I doubt I'll be reading another entry in this series, but new writers could do a lot worse than following this craftsman's lead. ...more I believe this will be the last James Patterson novel that I read. It was another of his titles with cardboard characters, stilted dialogue, and a plot with unlikely but convenient and contrived coincidences, which all equal a very thin read. In this book, the women's \"friendship\" came across as canned and forced. I think the characters were developed solely on a quota system for just the perfect mix that could solve murders. It was almost as if I could hear him thinking, \"Hmmm...let's see...I n I believe this will be the last James Patterson novel that I read. It was another of his titles with cardboard characters, stilted dialogue, and a plot with unlikely but convenient and contrived coincidences, which all equal a very thin read. In this book, the women's \"friendship\" came across as canned and forced. I think the characters were developed solely on a quota system for just the perfect mix that could solve murders. It was almost as if I could hear him thinking, \"Hmmm...let's see...I need a homicide detective (check), a medical examiner (check), and oh, maybe a reporter (check again). What else? Yes, of course! A district attorney too! (final check). Let's also make sure I represent the independent tough woman working in a man's world, the ethnic woman, the up-and-comer with moxie, and the uber-professional careerist. Done and done.\" Perhaps his use of ghostwriters who write stories about characters they didn't envision doing things that someone else has imagined and outlined is what causes this flatness. Whatever the reason, the end result just isn't for me. While I admire James Patterson's apparent marketing genius and entrepreneurial spirit in creating book outlines and farming out the actual storytelling and writing to other authors, he is now really just a brand cranking out books at breakneck speed. But at least he's honest about it. And he's right that his writing/outlines do appeal to a certain type of reader who wants a fast-paced read that doesn't require heavy lifting. Nothing wrong with that, but I'll be moving on. ...more My goodness, I've completed this book. I decided to try this novel as it had (and still have) a really good rating on GR. And I thought this would make a good read. I have imagined this would be better read than the Alex Cross, but not much. It seems Mr.Patterson has read a way lot of Agatha Christie and had confusions on whether the ideas are his or someone else's and finally decides to write books before the conclusion of those idea's origins and ignoring their quintessentiality in their real My goodness, I've completed this book. I decided to try this novel as it had (and still have) a really good rating on GR. And I thought this would make a good read. I have imagined this would be better read than the Alex Cross, but not much. It seems Mr.Patterson has read a way lot of Agatha Christie and had confusions on whether the ideas are his or someone else's and finally decides to write books before the conclusion of those idea's origins and ignoring their quintessentiality in their real storylines. I didn't like the narrative style which is weird and annoying sometimes, and the author thinks the book is narrated by a woman (thought, I'm not a woman), but trust me this ain't the way a woman speaks, but at least for women with such credentials. I think he shouldn't have written the epilogue which is completely out of sanity. But anyway Thanks to Mr.Patterson for this book, which made me write a completely opposing review (almost completely except for this part) ...more Audio. A really light easy read. It helps with audio versions when the chapters are short and pithy, as these definitely were. This book is the first in the Woman's Murder Club series. Inspector <---C>Lindsay Boxer</---C> of the San Francisco Police Department suddenly finds herself in the middle of two horrifying situations: The first is that she's just learned she has an often-fatal blood disease. The second is a double homicide case she is now heading up that involves the murder of newlyweds on their wedding Audio. A really light easy read. It helps with audio versions when the chapters are short and pithy, as these definitely were. This book is the first in the Woman's Murder Club series. Inspector Lindsay Boxer of the San Francisco Police Department suddenly finds herself in the middle of two horrifying situations: The first is that she's just learned she has an often-fatal blood disease. The second is a double homicide case she is now heading up that involves the murder of newlyweds on their wedding night. Burdened with Chris Raleigh, a new partner reassigned from the mayor's office, Lindsay finds that she has too much to deal with and turns to her best friend, Claire, the head ME on the case. With the help of fledgling newspaper reporter Cindy, and ADA Jill, Lindsay and Claire share private interdepartmental information in an effort to track and stop the killer before he strikes again. I wasn't expecting great things from this book, but I was pleasantly surprised and have already loaded the second in the series 2nd Chance to listen to. ...more Oh god - I really hated the first book I read of Patterson's, but I'd read about the Women's Murder Club TV series, and thought it sounded kind of cool, so I wanted to try the books. I'm about half way through, and this is pretty awful so far, in the same way as the previous book I read. Clumsy, cliched writing, ridiculous characters, a really ridiculous killer... bah. Why are these popular? At least it's a quick read. *** Skimmed my way frantically through the second half of the book in order to Oh god - I really hated the first book I read of Patterson's, but I'd read about the Women's Murder Club TV series, and thought it sounded kind of cool, so I wanted to try the books. I'm about half way through, and this is pretty awful so far, in the same way as the previous book I read. Clumsy, cliched writing, ridiculous characters, a really ridiculous killer... bah. Why are these popular? At least it's a quick read. *** Skimmed my way frantically through the second half of the book in order to finish it. Awful, awful stuff - Patterson is an incredibly bad writer. And that \"twist\" at the end? Jesus christ. I felt embarrassed to be reading this on the train, in case someone was reading over my shoulder. Ergh. ...more Wow! This book was great! I almost gave it 4-stars, as there are some subplot development issues (the main character, Lindsay, developed well as a character, but has a lot of things that happen out of the main plot that do not directly relate, but don't exactly take away - Patterson is trying to add more emotional, real-life appeal to the novel). Overall I loved it! The book has a lot of suspense is a very quick read! Lindsay is trying to catch a \"bride and groom\" pyschopath killer while dealing Wow! This book was great! I almost gave it 4-stars, as there are some subplot development issues (the main character, Lindsay, developed well as a character, but has a lot of things that happen out of the main plot that do not directly relate, but don't exactly take away - Patterson is trying to add more emotional, real-life appeal to the novel). Overall I loved it! The book has a lot of suspense is a very quick read! Lindsay is trying to catch a \"bride and groom\" pyschopath killer while dealing with issues of life. She and three other girlfriends form a club - The Women's Murder Club - so they can solve the murders together, off the record, and as a \"girls-only\" atmosphere to alleviate the male dominated professions each woman is involved in. Lindsay is a senior inspector for the San Fransico PD, Cliare is the Assistant Medical Examiner, Cindy is a rookie reporter, and Jill is the Assistant District Attorney. These women come together and make real friendships as they each help each other's case, career, and life. 3/4 of the way into it I thought I had figured it out. Well nearly every chapter after turned the book into a corkscrew - twist after twist after twist. It did not take away from the book because you kept guessing! I was so close... Then, the ending is - killer. Read it and continue on into the next books in the series! ...more It is really hard to rate this book since it seems that this is a mix of cheesiness and cliche but it is also unpredictable and thrilling. It has some terrible parts but there are also amazing parts. Pros: 1. I love the title 1st to die and my assumption to who will be the \"1st to die\" is wrong so I guess that is a plus point for the book. 2. I really like the murder scenes it is very grotesquely describe that it made me shiver just imagining them. 3. The twist in the end about who's the true murde It is really hard to rate this book since it seems that this is a mix of cheesiness and cliche but it is also unpredictable and thrilling. It has some terrible parts but there are also amazing parts. Pros: 1. I love the title 1st to die and my assumption to who will be the \"1st to die\" is wrong so I guess that is a plus point for the book. 2. I really like the murder scenes it is very grotesquely describe that it made me shiver just imagining them. 3. The twist in the end about who's the true murderer is something that I totally didn't see coming and I think it is a great twist, very shocking indeed. 4. Even the epilogue of the book is exhilarating, I thought it is all over but there's still some heart-stopping action at the epilogue of the book. Cons: 1. The characters and their relationships felt very awkward and contrived for me. The dialogues are very cheesy that it actually made me gag a couple of times. 2. Even the Women's Murder Club thingy felt a little bit push, it is just there for the sake of a bad ass title for the series but it is really lazily written. The parts wherein they're talking or even when they first met each other is very unnatural. They're like BFF's all of a sudden. 3. Lindsay's \"blood disease\" is a little bit cliche even the coughing of the blood part. \"I coughed a raw, burning stinging in my chest, then I shook and coughed some more. Gradually, I felt the spell recede. I took a breath, opened my eyes. I shuddered. There was blood all over the sink.\" --What I mean is that this is really cliche when you watch those drama series on tv, you'll always have this scene. 4. The romance is a bit cheesy too, especially at the beginning of the book. Even their first night together is written in a very cheesy way it just made me puke. 5. Also another thing that pisses me off is how the chapters are really short and guess what this book has a total of 126 chapters and one epilogue. I am so not kidding. 6. Here we go again with James Patterson's ridiculous deux ex machina. This is not my first J. Patterson book and I've read the first two books in his Maximum Ride Series and that's what I notice about both of these books is that he uses deux ex machina all the time to just move his plot. Like for example in this book, Jenks was inside the van and he is there because he's already a prisoner and then he have these handcuffs and some police who were watching for him etc. Then a GOD DAMN EARTHQUAKE came and he's free. I mean come on James Patterson this is just too convenient isn't it? Okay ranting over, all and all I did enjoy this book and I really am grateful that someone from The Filipino Group here in Goodreads gave this book to me last December. Though now I'm not sure who's the original owner since I just pick it up on the giveaway pile. Nevertheless thank you whoever you may be :). ...more This book was very good the 2nd time around. I wish i had the 2nd book and 3rd book but i don,t. It has been some time since I have read any mystery novels, so after much hunting through bookstores, I eagerly picked up the New York Bestselling book, 1st to Die. The beginning had me hooked. Looking through the eyes of the criminal-and the eyes of his soon-to-be victims-was awesome. I started out liking Lindsay, Cindy, and Claire. Lindsay's medical condition helped me grow closer to her (which I found slightly surprising). And as a public transportation rider, I enjoyed the short chapters. But It has been some time since I have read any mystery novels, so after much hunting through bookstores, I eagerly picked up the New York Bestselling book, 1st to Die. The beginning had me hooked. Looking through the eyes of the criminal-and the eyes of his soon-to-be victims-was awesome. I started out liking Lindsay, Cindy, and Claire. Lindsay's medical condition helped me grow closer to her (which I found slightly surprising). And as a public transportation rider, I enjoyed the short chapters. But as time progressed, the following began to annoy me: 1. Through most of the book, I had a hard time thinking of Lindsay as a woman. It just felt like a guy writing what he thought a woman might think! 2. I don't see why Patterson bothered to call this a Women's Murder Mystery Club adventure. Almost the entire book centers on Lindsay and her point of view. Cindy has only two major sequences where she does anything of any consequence. Claire is only given one section to herself. Mostly, she appears only when Lindsay consults her. And I don't understand why Jill was brought up at all-her role was completely meaningless. 3. The formation of the club is something I would expect from a young adult novel. One minute, the women go out for drinks, the next, they are bragging about having sex and where they have tattoos (yes, this is exactly what I do when I just meet a new group of women!). And what do the four really do to solve the mystery? I don't see how they helped Lindsay out much at all. 4. Lindsay and Chris were a cute couple, but their romance went way too fast. They started off okay, and then suddenly, they were in bed with each other. Their chemistry was thrown together hastily and more \"telling\" than \"showing\". 5. Once the last couple is killed, I feel that there is no more reason to be invested in the story. It's almost as though Patterson said, \"I've killed the last couple now.\" I would really have preferred him to allude to a fourth murder, and for Lindsay and Chris to rush to the rescue. I was really looking forward to reading this book and was sorry to see it continue to fall below my expectations as each page progressed. As soon as I finished it, I took it to a bookstore and traded it in for something else. I really would like to give Patterson a second chance-perhaps some of his earlier works-but after this novel, I am a little more wary about how I spend my $8. ...more This was my first James Patterson novel, and I have to say it was probably my last. I was expecting much, much more from a best-selling author - more complexity, more depth, more emotion. While I can see how the plot lends itself well to summer movie adaptation, as has been Patterson's style in the past with Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider , I found the writing entirely too simplistic, as if were distilled down to appeal to the lowest common denominator. Nothing too challenging so as not t This was my first James Patterson novel, and I have to say it was probably my last. I was expecting much, much more from a best-selling author - more complexity, more depth, more emotion. While I can see how the plot lends itself well to summer movie adaptation, as has been Patterson's style in the past with Kiss the Girls and Along Came a Spider , I found the writing entirely too simplistic, as if were distilled down to appeal to the lowest common denominator. Nothing too challenging so as not to offend the masses. The characters were flat. The love affair.. Don't get me started. Let's just say that you could totally tell that a man wrote this book. The two main detectives jumped from begrudging partners to passionate lovers with a blink of an eye and little to no development, which annoyed me. The ending - a disjointed killer-surprise-attack-for-one-final-bloody-act kind of deal. Eh... I would recommend this book to someone who just wants a quick read for a plane trip, someone seeking a cheap & dirty thrill but not much else. ...more Oh that was excellent! I really enjoy James Patterson 's style, short chapters, fast paced storyline, and characters I can relate to. This book even had a nice little romance even if it did end sadly. I loved the way I knew who the killer was, then I didn't and then right at the last minute when I thought it was all done and dusted back came yet another killer. Fantastic. I look forward to reading the rest of this series. Savr\u0161ena knjiga, pro\u010ditana u jednom dahu! How long has it been since you have stayed up too late to finish a book that you just couldn\u2019t put down? It happened to be last night and the book was First to Die by James Patterson . I was surprised because I thought Patterson was an author who produced books off an assembly line. I love a book with short chapters. It fits my attention span. None of that wondering how many pages until the end of the chapter so I can go see if I have any email or to have just one (more) cookie. This book fits th How long has it been since you have stayed up too late to finish a book that you just couldn\u2019t put down? It happened to be last night and the book was First to Die by James Patterson . I was surprised because I thought Patterson was an author who produced books off an assembly line. I love a book with short chapters. It fits my attention span. None of that wondering how many pages until the end of the chapter so I can go see if I have any email or to have just one (more) cookie. This book fits that mold nicely. First impression: The police making jokes as they view the bodies of the bride and groom in their hotel suite still dressed in their wedding attire: \u201cGuess things went downhill for them quicker than most.\u201d Seems a little tasteless or maybe it is the way all Patterson mystery novels begin. Maybe it is the author saying \u201cDon\u2019t take this book too seriously.\u201d Or maybe it\u2019s just Jacobi\u2019s job to be the crude cop. But it turns out that Jabobi, the partner of our protagonist, is pretty quickly relegated to a secondary role. What do I know about James Patterson? He and his co-authors have written a lot of books. This is the first in the Women\u2019s Murder Club series. Patterson could retire on his book earnings, and maybe he has. Maybe that is why he has turned over some of his writing to clones. This is my first Patterson mystery. If I had known that his name is just a front for his writing corporation, I would not have several more of his books on my TBR shelf. But I have a mantra: You bought these books. Now, read them! I got them cheap but maybe I overpaid. This book is from 2001 and maybe he was still a fresh writer then. I won\u2019t know that until I sample a couple more of his books. First books in a series are in demand by people like me. I am introduced to the main characters who I will encounter as I move further into the series. The series might have been published years ago but I still get to start fresh as I begin at the beginning. I am new to mysteries, having left them decades ago when I grew out of the Hardy Boys series. I decided I was focused way too much on non-fiction and I had to have more fun reading. So I decided to try out some mysteries with strong women protagonists. Once I got into selecting books I found out how very many NY Times Best Selling Authors of mysteries there are. I might have bit off more than I wanted. Will I like Inspector Lindsey Boxer as much as I like V.I. Warshawski? Or hate her as much as I hate Stephanie Plum? Maxine Paetro has collaborated with James Patterson to write the Women\u2019s Murder Club series beginning with The Fourth of July . This link takes you to some information about her: http://freshfiction.com/page.php?id=1904 . Although this is a bit of a puff piece, it does tell how the authors met in the New York advertising world. Paetro, a new woman author for me, didn\u2019t collaborate with Patterson until the fourth book in this series. But I wanted to start with number one and will be paying attention to see if I notice any difference when the collaboration begins. Having read only this one book by Patterson, I do not know if he has a run of the mill or unique template for his stories or a template at all for that matter. I don\u2019t know if he has a predictable pattern in his books but his consortium of writers sure do crank them out and they are at the top of the earnings and popularity charts. But, as a relatively inexperienced mystery reader, I did enjoy reading this book quite a lot. It has enough complexity and mystery and dramatic tension for me. His mass market paperbacks are shouting at you from the grocery store racks so a lot of regular people must buy them. There was enough intellectual and emotional stimulation without overshooting its mass audience target. It did not challenge my intellect and that is just the way I wanted it. I have not enjoyed or appreciated more than several books that have won big awards. With the book I liked not having to figure out the symbols and the meanings. Just a good enjoyable read. However Patterson has some failings. The Woman\u2019s Murder Club is populated by women so there should be, I think, a good deal of sensitivity to women\u2019s issues. And there is a good heavy dose of strong women here. We looked around the table. We were bright, attractive, take-no-shit women. We were going to run things \u2013 some day. I also wouldn\u2019t mind some feminist attributes more than good humored man hating. That man was standing there in his suit with a two-inch dick. I don\u2019t think from this limited exposure to Patterson that he fairs so well at being a feminist. His female lead character Lindsay has a sexually charged relationship with her male work partner and he fails to survive the \u201cNo Means No\u201d test. He pressures, she resists, he pressures more, she still resists, he pressures yet again, and she finally gives in and then is happy she succumbed. This is the She Really Wanted It Even Though She Resisted false truism. Now she was loving it, as she always did. It wasn\u2019t bad \u2013 it was good. They all ended up wanting it and loving it. He always picked them so well. This is a mass market author so hoping for a book that would please a feminist was only a faint hope at best. But the book was quite a bit better than mediocre and the drinking was mostly wine rather than scotch. And, could it be? There was no smoking or did I just miss it? That would be a milestone in my experience. I will read more of the Women\u2019s Murder Club series so I can judge it better. There is definitely room for improvement and I wonder if a woman writing collaborator will make a difference. The next book on my shelf from the series is #4 when Maxine Paetro makes her debut. I am giving First to Die three and a half stars rounded up to four to indicate my optimistic hope for improvement from the strong women perspective. I am pleasantly surprised by how much I liked this book. I am not sure whether than says more about me or the book. And I have not read Patterson books outside of this series to know if this is just filling the strong women niche while his macho, smoking, whiskey drinking men are in some other series. ...more I found the way the actual murders were carried out rather chilling, and the short, curt delivery helped develop that atmosphere. Although it was fairly easy to guess who the murderer was going to be after about halfway, the tension never eased until it reached the climax. The characters were also reasonably interesting, although their interactions always felt somewhat fake and stiff. Patterson tells me they're friends, but I don't see it. However, the real letdown for me was James Patterson's wr I found the way the actual murders were carried out rather chilling, and the short, curt delivery helped develop that atmosphere. Although it was fairly easy to guess who the murderer was going to be after about halfway, the tension never eased until it reached the climax. The characters were also reasonably interesting, although their interactions always felt somewhat fake and stiff. Patterson tells me they're friends, but I don't see it. However, the real letdown for me was James Patterson's writing. The man obviously has some decent stories up his sleeves, but the one thing that never changes is the fact that he can't write for beans. His editor's obviously not earning his/her pay either, because the very first sentence in the novel was probably one of the most jarring and badly phrased beginnings I've ever had the misfortune to read. The fact that he chose to present the story in first person didn't help, because it's very hard to pull off a great first person perspective without sounding clunky, even for the best of authors. Also, I found issues with the flow of the story. Again, the first chapter was particularly bad, as was the epilogue. They stuck out, and I couldn't seem to connect them very well with the rest of the story. Where were they supposed to tie in? I may never have found out if I hadn't read a good review that interpreted it satisfactorily. The ending was also a bit of a stunner, and the death moved by so quickly that it was almost surreal. I found that rather anticlimatic. A character that was built up to be Lindsay's new companion all through the novel was gone just like that, and I found myself wondering what was the point of him being there at all, except to make Lindsay look even more tragic. A good writer James Patterson is not, but if you read fast enough, all is forgiven because the plot moves along rather snappily. ...more :: 5 Pretty Little Stars :: This book takes you on one hell of a ride. It is exciting, dark, interesting, and very thrilling. I don\u2019t know how I never got into Patterson\u2019s books before but after reading two I am officially hooked. Each and every chapter of this book is swift. Before you know it, you are halfway through the book. I honestly LOVE this because I feel like I am able to read a lot more pages in a short amount of time. It also makes me feel more connected because I never feel like I :: 5 Pretty Little Stars :: This book takes you on one hell of a ride. It is exciting, dark, interesting, and very thrilling. I don\u2019t know how I never got into Patterson\u2019s books before but after reading two I am officially hooked. Each and every chapter of this book is swift. Before you know it, you are halfway through the book. I honestly LOVE this because I feel like I am able to read a lot more pages in a short amount of time. It also makes me feel more connected because I never feel like I am going to miss out on something important. Phew, this book is just plain good. So this book is about a detective named Lindsay who is on the hunt for the bride and groom killer. She has a keen eye for detail, is sharp, and an overall likeable character. While she is fighting crime though she is also going through something on her own. An illness that could eat her alive without treatment. This added subplot really adds to the book because it makes it feel more real. Not only is this woman fighting crime but she is also fighting for her own life. She isn\u2019t just a cop. Patterson successfully makes her a real person by showing us two sides to her story. I loved this. Lindsay of course, is the prominent figure in this book. However, there are also secondary characters who are extremely important and round out the book well. Three other women (a reporter, medical examiner, and district attorney) all come together with Lindsay on a common ground- to find the killer and get justice for those he has brutally murdered. While at first all three women feel like an unlikely pair, soon after they become just as important to the story as Lindsay. The killings (and killer) in this book are quite brutal. I wasn\u2019t expecting to get such a vivid glimpse as to how they are killed but Patterson shocks us when showing us how these killings were done. In some scenes we are literally watching these killing unfold behind the killer\u2019s eyes making us feel connected to him too. I found this to be very interesting and one of the best parts of the whole book. Readers beware though, the unexpected will occur. I won\u2019t say more or I will spoil it. Overall this is a fantastically thrilling ride. I look forward to continuing on in the series to see how the characters grow and develop more over time. It will be interesting to see what else these ladies get into with their murder club! If you haven\u2019t read a Patterson novel yet I suggest starting with this one. It\u2019s really good! ...more The gruesome murder of a newlywed couple just hours after their wedding ceremony shocks the city of San Francisco. What's more, it seems the murderer is on a bit of spree! Enter Detective Lindsay Boxer - a tenacious go-getter who throws herself into this high-profile case as a distraction from her personal struggles. Her best friend and confidante? Claire, the smart and sophisticated county medical examiner. Then there's Cindy, a determined young reporter who's ingenuity and good luck land her t The gruesome murder of a newlywed couple just hours after their wedding ceremony shocks the city of San Francisco. What's more, it seems the murderer is on a bit of spree! Enter Detective Lindsay Boxer - a tenacious go-getter who throws herself into this high-profile case as a distraction from her personal struggles. Her best friend and confidante? Claire, the smart and sophisticated county medical examiner. Then there's Cindy, a determined young reporter who's ingenuity and good luck land her the biggest case of her fledgling career. And don't forget Jill, the assistant DA whose character is a bit of an afterthought, but is nevertheless important since she makes up the fourth member of the Women's Murder Club. Together the women decide to cut through the bureaucracy and pool their resources to solve the crimes... before the murderer can strike again! The book is one giant cliche, featuring four female characters each with as much depth as an inflatable kiddie pool. The romantic lead, one Chris Raleigh, couldn't have been more dull. A police big-shot who specializes in public relations, he's sent in to replace Lindsay's gruff and tough partner (Jacobi) due to the highly sensitive and public nature of the case. Instead of taking over, Raleigh presents with a relaxed and helpful demeanor, which naturally throws Lindsay for a loop (despite her reputation for being highly observant and possessing a keen ability to read people). Oh she's irritated about the situation alright, but, of course, finds herself slowly falling for him. Add to that her unwillingness to deal with an unexpected personal crisis, and Patterson has colored in a paint-by-numbers picture of a tough-on-the-outside, gooey-on-the-inside struggling female cop. Classic. The plot was okay, but not particularly inventive. Typically I do not like when mysteries vacillate between the detective's and the killer's perspectives, but I will say that this story's shifting points of view added some much-needed suspense. In fairness, 1st to Die is a first book, so Patterson will have ample time to develop his characters over what is sure to be a lengthy series (already eight books and counting). I, however, do not intend to find out personally how successful he is. ...more 4.5 stars I loved 1st to Die. It was the perfect beginning to a thrilling series. I thought the women's decision to join forces and work together to stop a serial killer was ingenious. I think it spoke to the true character of each of them, showing that their true goal was to protect the public from danger rather than be recognized personally for being the sole reason the killer was stopped. The book works so well because of the differences each woman brings to the table. Lindsey works well as a main chara I loved 1st to Die. It was the perfect beginning to a thrilling series. I thought the women's decision to join forces and work together to stop a serial killer was ingenious. I think it spoke to the true character of each of them, showing that their true goal was to protect the public from danger rather than be recognized personally for being the sole reason the killer was stopped. The book works so well because of the differences each woman brings to the table. Lindsey works well as a main character because of the other women in her life. Had the book been Lindsey on her own, I don't think it would have been nearly as enjoyable. 1st to Die was a wonderful mystery that didn't hold back. The murders were shocking. The serial killer was targeting couples on their wedding nights. Just the concept alone is upsetting. The frenzied race to find the killer was easily felt and I found myself caught up in the momentum of the book. Once started, I couldn't put it down. I had to know who the killer was and how they would be stopped. The first book in any mystery series can be hit or miss due to the necessity of laying groundwork and introducing background information. 1st to Die was definitely a hit for me. I honestly can't think of one thing that wasn't perfect in this book. If you haven't started this series yet, you are missing out. ...more It's probably not fair for me to rate this book. It's really not my style. I didn't get more than 50 pages into it. I find that I empathize with the characters too much these days. That makes it very difficult to read a book like this. To explain, the book starts out with the main character trying to kill herself, then gives us a happy intro to the first victims in the story, and moves on to the point of view of the murderer as he kills those first victims. He thinks to himself, what is the wors It's probably not fair for me to rate this book. It's really not my style. I didn't get more than 50 pages into it. I find that I empathize with the characters too much these days. That makes it very difficult to read a book like this. To explain, the book starts out with the main character trying to kill herself, then gives us a happy intro to the first victims in the story, and moves on to the point of view of the murderer as he kills those first victims. He thinks to himself, what is the worst thing he could do? And then he does it. And I'm sure that for some, this is entertaining. But for me, it's just disturbing and something I can't get out of my head. I'm sure the point is that later, there will be mystery and suspense, and the murderer will get caught and all will be well - I just don't care to get there. I read for fun, and heart-wrenching, disgusting, horrible murders aren't fun. IMO. ...more \"First in the series of the Women\u2019s Murder Club The Women's Murder Club pits four San Francisco women professionals against a serial killer who's stalking and murdering newlyweds in bestselling author James Patterson's newest thriller. Lindsay Boxer is a homicide inspector who's just gotten some very bad news (a life threatening blood disease). She deals with it by immersing herself in her newest case and soliciting the personal as well as professional support of her closest friend, who happens \"First in the series of the Women\u2019s Murder Club The Women's Murder Club pits four San Francisco women professionals against a serial killer who's stalking and murdering newlyweds in bestselling author James Patterson's newest thriller. Lindsay Boxer is a homicide inspector who's just gotten some very bad news (a life threatening blood disease). She deals with it by immersing herself in her newest case and soliciting the personal as well as professional support of her closest friend, who happens to be the city's medical examiner. The two women, along with an ambitious and sympathetic reporter and an assistant DA, form an unlikely alliance, pooling their information and bypassing the chain of command in an engaging, suspenseful story whose gruesome setup is vintage Patterson.\" This was the 2nd Patterson book I have read. It was pretty good. The team of women is an interesting concept. Patterson does a pretty good job with it. ...more It wasn't even fun-bad! Just bad-bad. I developed a bit of a soft spot for Patterson after I saw him playing poker with Castle (any friend of Castle is a friend of mine is pretty much how the thinking went), but holy moley, holy freakin' moley! It's terrible. Boring and badly written. I'm giving it 2 stars rather than 1, because 1 star ratings are reserved for truly special cases. And while this was bad, it was no Morrissey novel.", "Title": "1st to Die"},
