{"Comments": "I didn't care for it, for several reasons. First of all, I didn't think much of the quality of the writing--certainly nothing like Lucy Grealy's in her own memoir. Second, I found both women's behavior in the friendship really strange. Ann seems completely blank in the relationship,<---M> never asserting any real personality</---M>, and completely enabling Lucy's neediness and selfishness. Lucy just sounded like a black hole, sucking up every bit of attention, affection, needing more and more extravagant dec I didn't care for it, for several reasons. First of all, I didn't think much of the quality of the writing--certainly nothing like Lucy Grealy's in her own memoir. Second, I found both women's behavior in the friendship really strange. Ann seems completely blank in the relationship, never asserting any real personality, and completely enabling Lucy's neediness and selfishness. Lucy just sounded like a black hole, sucking up every bit of attention, affection, needing more and more extravagant declarations of love.<---F> She sounded exhausting</---F>. And finally, I think it exploitative of Ann Pratchett to write a book like this about someone she supposedly felt was her best friend when that person could no longer respond, particularly as Ann wasn't truly writing about the relationship at all. She did not write about her own feelings of the friendship, why and how it developed as it did, what kept them together, what she learned about herself, how (<---B>or whether!</---B>) Lucy brought out the best in her, etc.; in fact, there seems to be very little reflection on or ownership about her own behavior. Mostly it seems to be an expose' about Lucy. I just came away feeling that both these women sounded really messed up, needy, difficult, self-absorbed, and not at all self-aware, and that both had a habit of using terrible judgment in their personal lives. Yuck. If this is truth--I do mean \"if\"--it's not beauty, and I wonder why anyone would want either of them as a friend. ...more Wow -- what a fascinating experience, to read \"<+++>Truth and Beauty</+++>\" after \"Autobiography of a Face\" and then to follow up with Suellen Grealy's angry article. I actually thought \"<+++>Truth and Beauty</+++>\" was the better book of the two, although perhaps it's not fair to say that because much of my fascination with \"Truth and Beauty,\" at least initially, stemmed from having read \"Autobiography of a Face\" and the unique, stimulating opportunity to read one person's memoir and then to read how that person was Wow -- what a fascinating experience, to read \"Truth and Beauty\" after \"Autobiography of a Face\" and then to follow up with Suellen Grealy's angry article. I actually thought \"Truth and Beauty\" was the better book of the two, although perhaps it's not fair to say that because much of my fascination with \"Truth and Beauty,\" at least initially, stemmed from having read \"Autobiography of a Face\" and the unique, stimulating opportunity to read one person's memoir and then to read how that person was remembered by a close friend. First of all, I loved the writing. I forgot I was reading a book half the time; I felt like I was experiencing the friendship and the people myself. Also, while \"Autobiography of a Face\" was well-written, the story gripped me more than the writing. With \"Truth and Beauty,\" the writing was more singular than the story although I enjoyed both. \"Autobiography\" explored the dynamics of growing up looking like a freak, while \"Truth\" described a uniquely intimate? codependent? almost physical? unhealthily close, or just unusually close? friendship -- a more universal topic, but written about in such a fascinating and provocative way. This book made me think a lot about friendship. When does unique closeness become dysfunctional and unhealthy? When friends fall into the roles of \"the sick one\" and \"the well one,\" even legitimately, how do they break out of that? And should they? If so, at what point? It also made me think about sociable, charismatic, life-of-the-party people and whether they're just good at masking and filling (or trying to fill) an inner emptiness. Is it better to be introverted? Then, reading Suellen Grealy's article (not printed in the book, for obvious reasons) raised even more questions for me. I could empathize with Suellen's feelings of exposure and her sense that her private grief had become something public and marketable. At the same time, at the risk of sounding callous, there's another way to look at this. For example, concerning \"Autobiography,\" she expressed irritation that Lucy had selected her vantage point -- but what do you expect a memoir to be? In describing <---A>Ann Patchett</---A>'s afterword to \"Autobiography,\" Suellen quoted her sister Sarah as saying, \"Where are we in this story?\" <---C>Ann Patchett</---C> was describing her memories of Lucy, which didn't include her sisters, whom she never met while Lucy was alive. I tried to understand -- is she angry about the exposure of Lucy, or about the fact that she wasn't included in this expose? Then, Suellen reacted to the fact that one reading guide for \"Autobiography\" questioned her mother's parenting skills, and reported that this was blamed on an inexperienced intern. It's true that this may be insensitive to the family, but once you're going to go there, maybe the book shouldn't have been published at all! Suellen said that, while she respected Ann Patchett's need to write the book as an artist, she would have preferred that she write it and then bury it somewhere rather than publishing it. Right. I sympathize with Suellen's feelings of exposure, but to hold it against Ann that she spent years writing an excellent book, a book that contributes to the literature canon, and then actually wanted to publish it, is not fair. This happens to be a problem, as I know because a friend of mine is a writer and a journalist and sometimes angers people who appear in her writings (directly or indirectly) because they feel their privacy has been invaded. It's not that I don't sympathize with Suellen's feelings. I can't imagine what her grief must be like, and then to have it bared so publicly outside of her control. However, \"Truth and Beauty\" was such a worthwhile book in my opinion that I have a hard time relating to her particular complaints. I guess that any book has the potential to expose and hurt people, especially a memoir. Does that mean it shouldn't be written? Does that mean it shouldn't be read? ...more This is a beautiful memoir of a friendship between two writers, Ann Patchett and the poet Lucy Grealy. I read this back in 2006, and it's still one of my favorite books about the nature of friendship and the bonds that we form with others. Ann met Lucy in college, and later they both attended the Iowa Writer's Workshop. As a child, Lucy had suffered cancer of the jaw and her face was disfigured during numerous reconstruction surgeries. Lucy wrote the memoir \"Autobiography of a Face\" about her exp This is a beautiful memoir of a friendship between two writers, Ann Patchett and the poet Lucy Grealy. I read this back in 2006, and it's still one of my favorite books about the nature of friendship and the bonds that we form with others. Ann met Lucy in college, and later they both attended the Iowa Writer's Workshop. As a child, Lucy had suffered cancer of the jaw and her face was disfigured during numerous reconstruction surgeries. Lucy wrote the memoir \"Autobiography of a Face\" about her experience. This is how Ann described Lucy: \"Her lower jaw had been a ledge falling off just below her cheekbone when we started college, making her face a sharp triangle, but now the lines were softer. She couldn't close her mouth all the way and her front teeth showed. Her jaw was irregular, as if one side had been collapsed by a brutal punch, and her neck was scarred and slightly twisted. She had a patch of paler skin running from ear to ear that had been grafted from her back and there were other bits of irregular patching and scars. But she also had lovely light eyes with damp dark lashes and a nose whose straightness implied aristocracy. Lucy had white Irish skin and dark blond hair and in the end that's what you saw, the things that didn't change: her eyes, the sweetness of her little ears.\" Ann and Lucy became close when they were in grad school together in Iowa. They both had new dating experiences, and the slower pace of life in the Midwest made them feel like they were \"impossibly rich in time.\" They filled their days with reading and teaching and dinner and dancing and, of course, writing. \"We shared our ideas like sweaters, with easy exchange and lack of ownership. We gave over excess words, a single beautiful sentence that had to be cut but perhaps the other would like to have. As two reasonably intelligent and very serious young writers in a reasonably serious writing program, we didn't so much discuss our work as volley ideas back and forth until neither of us was sure who belonged to what.\" After grad school the two friends moved away but stayed in touch with visits and heartfelt letters, some of which Ann includes in the book. Sadly, Lucy later got involved in drugs and died too young. Ann would often dream of her, and she would have a conversation with her dear friend. \"Night after night after night I find her, always in a public place, a museum, a restaurant, on a train. Every night she's glad to see me and she folds into my arms. But each time there is less of her to hold on to ... In this little way I am allowed to visit my dead.\" I was drawn to the book because I had loved Ann Patchett's novel \"Bel Canto,\" so I picked it up just on name recognition. Her writing is lovely and sincere, and it made me adore Patchett even more. I highly recommend the book to writers and to anyone who loves a good story of friendship. Update November 2013: There was a lovely interview with Ann Patchett in the New York Times, during which she was asked which writer, dead or alive, would she meet? This was her answer: \"I'd want to see my friend Lucy Grealy again. I'd want to know how the afterlife was treating her, if there was anything or everything about this world she missed. She'd say to me, 'My God, how did you get here?' And I would say, 'The New York Times Book Review told me I could meet any writer, living or dead, and I picked you!' Then I imagine there would be a great deal of hugging and dancing around.\" Read the full interview here: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/03/boo... ...more Okay, I'm gonna come out and say something earnest here, in a short break from the usual foul-mouthed cynicism. I think books ought to have courage; I think memoirs, out of all books, must have courage. And this one doesn't. This is supposed to be the story of a twenty-year friendship between two women writers, but in reality this is just a book about Lucy Grealy, the girl who lost most of her face to cancer, the eventual darling of the New York literary scene, the heroin addict. The cowardice st Okay, I'm gonna come out and say something earnest here, in a short break from the usual foul-mouthed cynicism. I think books ought to have courage; I think memoirs, out of all books, must have courage. And this one doesn't. This is supposed to be the story of a twenty-year friendship between two women writers, but in reality this is just a book about Lucy Grealy, the girl who lost most of her face to cancer, the eventual darling of the New York literary scene, the heroin addict. The cowardice starts there, letting this book be about Lucy, who is dead, about how larger than life and brilliant and fucked up she was, because that way Patchett never really has to tell us much more than the executive summary of herself. But it doesn't stop there. This is a book about a really long, complicated friendship, where one party clearly had serious psychological problems (Borderline Personality Disorder, at least based on this narration \u2013 seriously, you can go down a freaking checklist). It's hard to explain what I'm pointing at when I say this book lacks courage. It talks about Lucy's neediness, her clinginess, her bursts of demanding infantilism, but it's in this weird, belligerent way that says, see, I'm telling you all this to show you just how much I must have loved her . Not I loved her, so I can tell these stories now that she's gone to grieve and remember and be truthful . Like, for example, there are a half dozen pieces of evidence scattered throughout the book that Lucy was a . . . let's say fabulist. In parts of her nonfiction, and in parts of her life. And Patchett just tosses this stuff out there and doesn't touch it, not once. I don't want to piece together evidence from a friendship/memoir/fragmented biography \u2013 I want the evidence, and I want Patchett's thoughts on it, I wanted honesty about this part of Lucy, too, along with how she submitted herself again and again to abusive surgeries. I don't want diamond clarity \u2013 that's a weird thing to want from a memoir \u2013 but I do want . . . more real participation. Reflections on Lucy that reflect Patchett, too. Something that wasn't an entire book of an apology. Something braver, because you know the most summary, cursory part of this book? The few flat lines at the end, after Lucy overdoses. This is a book all about Patchett's grief, and yet, at the last, she hides her face. Courage. Not something easily found in grief, but I have high expectations. Still. Lucy's excerpted letters were beautiful. ...more \"Truth and Beauty\" is a memoir about the close friendship Ann Patchett shared with the writer Lucy Grealy. At the age of nine, Grealy was diagnosed with Ewing's sarcoma. She went through years of radiation, chemotherapy, and reconstructive surgeries of her lower jaw. But it was still difficult for her to eat, speak, and kiss. Grealy published the successful \"Autobiography of a Face\" in 1994 about her experiences. Patchett and Grealy, both graduates of Sarah Lawrence College, became best friends w \"Truth and Beauty\" is a memoir about the close friendship Ann Patchett shared with the writer Lucy Grealy. At the age of nine, Grealy was diagnosed with Ewing's sarcoma. She went through years of radiation, chemotherapy, and reconstructive surgeries of her lower jaw. But it was still difficult for her to eat, speak, and kiss. Grealy published the successful \"Autobiography of a Face\" in 1994 about her experiences. Patchett and Grealy, both graduates of Sarah Lawrence College, became best friends when sharing an apartment at the Iowa Writers' Workshop. Although Grealy had a great number of friends, she longed for true love with a man. No relationship met her romantic expectations, and her overwhelming need for love. In addition to physical pain, Grealy also suffered the emotional pain of feeling unattractive and had a history of depression. The book is a combination of Patchett's memories and Grealy's letters. Grealy comes across as creative, intelligent, and charismatic, but also extremely irresponsible with money and emotionally needy. Patchett spent twenty years as her devoted, loving, responsible friend. While the friendship brought many moments of joy to Patchett, it also seemed very demanding and suffocating. In spite of the overwhelming efforts of Patchett and others, no one could save Grealy from her demons. This memoir of a fascinating friendship kept my attention from beginning to end. ...more Truth and Beauty is an endearing, wonderfully written memoir about the friendship and love between Ann Patchett and her friend, memoirist/poet, Lucy Grealy. Complete opposites, Patchett aptly compares their relationship to Aesop's fable characters: the grasshopper, ant, tortoise and hare. \"What the story didn't tell you is that the ant relented at the eleventh hour and took in the grasshopper when the weather was hard, fed him on his tenderest store of grass all winter. The tortoise, being unin Truth and Beauty is an endearing, wonderfully written memoir about the friendship and love between Ann Patchett and her friend, memoirist/poet, Lucy Grealy. Complete opposites, Patchett aptly compares their relationship to Aesop's fable characters: the grasshopper, ant, tortoise and hare. \"What the story didn't tell you is that the ant relented at the eleventh hour and took in the grasshopper when the weather was hard, fed him on his tenderest store of grass all winter. The tortoise, being uninterested in such things, gave over his medal to the hare. Grasshoppers and hares find the ants and tortoises. They need us to survive, but we need them as well. They were the ones who brought the truth and beauty to the party, which Lucy could tell you as she recited Keats over breakfast, was better than food any day.\" Gah, I just loved this book so much! This is a book that will make you call in sick to work just so you can finish it. You may just cry, and if not cry, then seriously reflect on the friends and dear loved ones you know. What circumstances bring people into our lives just when we need them? Are they here for a season or a lifetime? So much food for thought. Grealy endured countless operations on her face due to treatment of cancer when she was young. Despite never being happy with her appearance and being constantly overwhelmed with the fear of never being loved, her larger than life personality and poetic genius is the legacy that she left behind. Patchett's loving tribute to her dear friend was a wonderful reading experience. For two days I got to see behind the \"writer's curtain\" and all that goes into writing a book. Also I should add that this is a book that begs to be discussed. My mom isn't much of a reader, but two mornings in a row we found ourselves having coffee at the kitchen table discussing the characters; she even allowed me to read complete passages. I'm not one for highlighting my books or folding pages, but I just couldn't help myself! I devoured this book. One thing we agreed on this morning while I was filling her in on the ending, she said, \"You better make sure to buy Autobiography of a Face . We'll have to discuss it on late night long distance phone calls.\" Consider it done, ma! ...more I picked up this book because I read \"Bel Canto\" and loved it, and loved Ann Patchett's writing style. I also think that, in general, friendship does not get enough respect in our society. There's a lot of attention payed to family and lovers, but not much to friends. This is the story of a friendship between the author and a woman she went to college with. They both end up at the University of Iowa's Writer's Workshop at the same time, and a beautiful, life-long friendship ensues. I loved the b I picked up this book because I read \"Bel Canto\" and loved it, and loved Ann Patchett's writing style. I also think that, in general, friendship does not get enough respect in our society. There's a lot of attention payed to family and lovers, but not much to friends. This is the story of a friendship between the author and a woman she went to college with. They both end up at the University of Iowa's Writer's Workshop at the same time, and a beautiful, life-long friendship ensues. I loved the beginning because I went to the University of Iowa. I think I even know the house on Governor Street where they were roomies. I lived on Governor Street, and I worked at Great Midwestern Ice Cream Co., where another scene in the book takes place. So, there's my own nostalgia for Iowa City in there! The friend, Lucy, suffered from a rare form of cancer affecting her jaw at an early age, and her face was deformed as a result. The book chronicles her exuberance, her depressions, her self-destructive behavior, and the author's many attempts to try to save a friend she dearly loves. It's not Lucy's face so much that is her downfall, but her utter lack of a sense of identity, and her desperate need to be loved and considered beautiful, at whatever cost. In the end, it is a beautifully written testament to friendship, and also to the lives of two writers struggling to remain true to their craft. ...more Oh, my experience rereading this book was so different from my first reading ten years ago. Back then, I don't think I'd read any Ann Patchett yet--I'd read Lucy Grealy's Autobiography of a Face and wanted to know more about her and how she died. Even though Ann was doing the telling, I saw this as Lucy's story. Fast forward ten years: I've now read and loved three of Ann Patchett's novels and a fair amount of her nonfiction pieces. I'm a fan. Rereading Truth and Beauty , I'm much more interested Oh, my experience rereading this book was so different from my first reading ten years ago. Back then, I don't think I'd read any Ann Patchett yet--I'd read Lucy Grealy's Autobiography of a Face and wanted to know more about her and how she died. Even though Ann was doing the telling, I saw this as Lucy's story. Fast forward ten years: I've now read and loved three of Ann Patchett's novels and a fair amount of her nonfiction pieces. I'm a fan. Rereading Truth and Beauty , I'm much more interested in Ann's story, and surprised by how much of the book is actually about her. I think the story of Ann's writing life is as fascinating as Lucy's, in its own way--no drama, no self-destructiveness, just someone who gradually made her way from Friday's waitress to wildly successful author via talent, of course, but also sheer force of will and her willingness to engage, day after day, with the page in front of her--something Lucy, it seems, was never able to do. Of course, the book really is about both of them, a true portrait of their friendship, but for me, Ann's part in it assumed its rightful place on this reading. The parts of the book concerning Lucy's drug addiction really stood out for me this time as well: Lucy's ex-boyfriend Andy, thinking if he can just keep her out of New York (where her dealer lives) she'll stay clean--as if Lucy couldn't find drugs everywhere else in the world. Ann herself desperately wanting Lucy to move to Nashville so she can keep an eye on her--basically be there to stop Lucy if she tries to go off track. Such common behavior among the loved ones of addicts. You think there's something you can do to solve the problem, but the fact is you can't do anything. I felt that aspect of the book much more strongly this time around. Lucy's bad behavior was less shocking to me this time--probably because it was no longer new to me--but I certainly understand all the reviewers here who wonder why in the world someone like Ann would stay friends with someone like Lucy. To me, the answer is in this passage, one of my favorites in the book: \"Whenever I saw her, I felt like I had been living in another country, doing moderately well in another language, and then she showed up speaking English and suddenly I could speak with all the complexity and nuance that I hadn't even realized was gone. With Lucy I was a native speaker.\" Don't we all want to be lucky enough to feel this way? And once we did, wouldn't we do whatever we could to hold onto it? ...more A justly acclaimed memoir about the friendship between the novelist Ann Patchett ( Bel Canto , State Of Wonder ) and the memoirist/poet Lucy Grealy ( Autobiography Of A Face ). The two graduated the same year from Sarah Lawrence, but they became close only when they lived together while studying and teaching at the Iowa Writer\u2019s Workshop. That friendship continued through their years struggling to publish, win grants and fellowships, on through successes, setbacks, publication, fame and Grealy\u2019s untim A justly acclaimed memoir about the friendship between the novelist Ann Patchett ( Bel Canto , State Of Wonder ) and the memoirist/poet Lucy Grealy ( Autobiography Of A Face ). The two graduated the same year from Sarah Lawrence, but they became close only when they lived together while studying and teaching at the Iowa Writer\u2019s Workshop. That friendship continued through their years struggling to publish, win grants and fellowships, on through successes, setbacks, publication, fame and Grealy\u2019s untimely death, in 2002, at 39. As Patchett points out early on in achingly beautiful prose, the two had an ant/grasshopper, turtle/hare dynamic. Patchett was the responsible one and Grealy, we soon see, was impulsive and needy, constantly requiring validation and love. And no wonder. At 9, Grealy was diagnosed with a rare form of cancer called Ewing\u2019s sarcoma. This led to the removal of her jawbone, and over the years she had dozens of reconstructive surgeries. All of this led to childhood and adolescent taunting, chronic pain and constant difficulty eating, and a lifetime of insecurity and self-consciousness about her looks. (She would detail this in Autobiography Of A Face years later.) What comes across clearly is a strange, mysterious alchemy \u2013 a chemistry, a blending of souls \u2013 in their friendship. We tend to think that only romantic love depends on chemistry; but friends need it too. And reading Patchett\u2019s lines and reading between the lines , you can see the real love blossom between them. Patchett recounts the fun, the dancing, the talking, the drinking, the work, the petty squabbles over writing, men and messes both literal and figurative (while they were both writers, they weren\u2019t as competitive since they wrote in different genres). She also includes generous glimpses of their correspondence to add context. ( Spoiler alert: these women know how to write! ) There are lots of laughs, like the time Grealy went on a blind date with George Stephanopoulos (even this episode, though, is tinged with sadness). And there are a couple of vivid descriptions of publishing parties, including one awkward one celebrating author Dennis McFarland. As the book progresses, and Grealy begins taking drugs because of pain caused by surgeries (including one where her tibia was removed to graft onto her face), you begin to see where the narrative is headed. But it\u2019s never predictable. Near the end there are a couple of moments that must have caused Patchett great remorse to remember and write down. What do I take away from this book, besides wanting to read Grealy\u2019s own memoir? I think about the role my closest, dearest friends play in my life. How many people would pretend they\u2019re your sibling to stay by your hospital bedside after an operation? Who would you let stay with you so they could recover from addiction? Would you ever collect months and months of a friend\u2019s bills and forge their signature on cheques so they wouldn\u2019t have to deal with it all? There\u2019s some codependency in these accounts, of which I\u2019m sure Patchett is aware, but there\u2019s also a fierce, unconditional love that is astonishing to behold. Lots of truth, and so much beauty. ...more \u201cTruth and Beauty\u201d is the story of authors Ann Patchett and Lucy Grealy\u2019s (\u201cAutobiography of a Face\u201d) friendship, commencing from their college days until Lucy\u2019s death in 2002 at age 39. The title of the book \u201cTruth and Beauty\u201d is taken from a chapter and several references in Lucy\u2019s book. Lucy Grealy is mercurial, irresponsible, needy, and an immensely talented writer. She is seriously facially disfigured from having half of her jawbone removed due to Ewing\u2019s sarcoma as a child and from numerous \u201cTruth and Beauty\u201d is the story of authors Ann Patchett and Lucy Grealy\u2019s (\u201cAutobiography of a Face\u201d) friendship, commencing from their college days until Lucy\u2019s death in 2002 at age 39. The title of the book \u201cTruth and Beauty\u201d is taken from a chapter and several references in Lucy\u2019s book. Lucy Grealy is mercurial, irresponsible, needy, and an immensely talented writer. She is seriously facially disfigured from having half of her jawbone removed due to Ewing\u2019s sarcoma as a child and from numerous subsequent reconstructive surgeries. She tells her own story in \u201cAutobiography of a Face\u201d (which I suggest that you read before \u201cTruth and Beauty\u201d). Ann Patchett is solid, responsible, hard-working and possibly less talented. Their interdependency, and how their friendship ebbs and flows as they move through professional and personal successes and failures in their lives, is the heart and soul of the book. Some have questioned Patchett\u2019s motives in writing the book (including Lucy\u2019s family members), but I leave that to the reader to judge. It seems to me that any writer in Patchett\u2019s situation would have done the same, perhaps less honestly and less skillfully. Suellen Grealy, Lucy\u2019s sister, outlines her grievances with Ann Patchett in an article in The Guardian from 2004: http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2004/... Overall, I\u2019m glad I read Grealy\u2019s \u201cAutobiography of a Face\u201d first and I thought \u201cTruth and Beauty\u201d was extremely interesting and well written. I highly recommend both. ...more I learned how not to treat friends. I couldn't believe that Ann didn't end her friendship with Lucy after so many irritating incidents on Lucy's part. I would have backed out of sharing an apartment with Lucy if she had jumped up on me when I first arrived at the apartment. When Lucy demanded that Ann tell her that she (Ann) loved her most, why did Ann cater to her wishes? The author did not explain to my satisfaction why Lucy continued to have friends. Apparently Lucy must have had some sort I learned how not to treat friends. I couldn't believe that Ann didn't end her friendship with Lucy after so many irritating incidents on Lucy's part. I would have backed out of sharing an apartment with Lucy if she had jumped up on me when I first arrived at the apartment. When Lucy demanded that Ann tell her that she (Ann) loved her most, why did Ann cater to her wishes? The author did not explain to my satisfaction why Lucy continued to have friends. Apparently Lucy must have had some sort of charisma. Surely pity could not have kept her friends hanging around, watching for her to drop crumbs their way. It seemed to me that Lucy just used her friends. Maybe the answer is in Autobiography of a Face. I have not read that book. ...more Addicts are not very likable. At best I found Lucy Grealy tiresome. That was at the beginning of Patchett's memoir about their friendship. By the end my feelings for Lucy had turned into active dislike. I don't think this was the author's intent. When Lucy dies, she says: \"I had thought I could let her go. But now I know I was simply not cut out for life without her. I am living that life now and would not choose it.\" But she never made me see why this should be. Why was she so devoted to Lucy, w Addicts are not very likable. At best I found Lucy Grealy tiresome. That was at the beginning of Patchett's memoir about their friendship. By the end my feelings for Lucy had turned into active dislike. I don't think this was the author's intent. When Lucy dies, she says: \"I had thought I could let her go. But now I know I was simply not cut out for life without her. I am living that life now and would not choose it.\" But she never made me see why this should be. Why was she so devoted to Lucy, why were so many others? The Lucy I got to know in this book did not in any way merit such devotion. Yes, she was sucker-punched by life as a child. And survived. But a spoiled brat who was sucker-punched by life is still a spoiled brat. There are many reasons why people use other people. But they are still users. I also did not much like the Ann Patchett described in this book. And really, their lives were not that enlightening or interesting. I did like the writing, though, and will probably look to read some of Patchett's novels. ...more It's a little confusing to separate all the various emotions and viewpoints associated with Truth and Beuaty because of the agita caused by the Grealey family's dissatisfaction with the book and Suellen Grealey's letter to the Guardian. The \"controversy\" stems from ideas of ethics and rights. Who owns the rights to Lucy's story? Is it ethical for Ann Patchett to use Lucy to tell her own story? I see both sides although I fall on Patchett's side. Reading Beauty , I could see how her family didn't It's a little confusing to separate all the various emotions and viewpoints associated with Truth and Beuaty because of the agita caused by the Grealey family's dissatisfaction with the book and Suellen Grealey's letter to the Guardian. The \"controversy\" stems from ideas of ethics and rights. Who owns the rights to Lucy's story? Is it ethical for Ann Patchett to use Lucy to tell her own story? I see both sides although I fall on Patchett's side. Reading Beauty , I could see how her family didn't like the at times ugly portrayal of Lucy, but I think it's not ugliness, but truth. An interesting study in contrasts. Lucy Grealey's life has all the markings of a bloated, Hollywood biopic. The outsized personality, illness, disfigurement, depression, addiction, sexual exploration. Her life is epic and her death tragic. Patchett subverts expectations here by going small. She stays resolutely to her own tiny window into Lucy. The prose is minimal and well-considered, providing subtle contrast to Lucy's letters. I was constantly reminded of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby , an odd reference point, but a think an applicable one because of their similar perspectives. Both novel's ostensible protagonist, the narrator, become side characters to the bombast of the colorful friend. And of course the stories of both Jay Gatsby and Lucy Grealey don't end well, but this does bring me back to ethics. Gatsby is a work of fiction so the perspective, like everything else, is a fabrication. Beauty is a memoir, but on appearance it is a memoir of Lucy, not of Ann. I say on appearance because I'm not sure the memoir is so much about Lucy as it is about writing and creativity as told through the friendship of Patchett and Grealey. It reminded me of Didion's Blue Nights , where you think you're reading about the death of her daughter, but you're actually reading about death itself and the struggle of writing and art against it. The discussions about writing and the descriptions about Lucy's feelings about writing are fascinating. Writing is salvation for both Patchett and Grealey through their lives. Patchett appears to reach the same conclusion as Didion, that writing and art and truth and beauty are not salvation. They are not a lifeline. Nothing can stop death and fear if it wants to come. ...more SPOILER ALERT! So this is really more like a 2.5 star read, but interesting in a train-wreck kind of way. This is the true story of Patchett's friendship and fascination with fellow author Lucy Grealy from college through Grealy's suicide in her late 30s. Grealy suffered from Ewing's sarcoma which claimed a part of her face in childhood and then she permitted it to take her self-respect and the rest of her life. Grealy told her own story in \"Autobiography of a Face\", and the story should have pro SPOILER ALERT! So this is really more like a 2.5 star read, but interesting in a train-wreck kind of way. This is the true story of Patchett's friendship and fascination with fellow author Lucy Grealy from college through Grealy's suicide in her late 30s. Grealy suffered from Ewing's sarcoma which claimed a part of her face in childhood and then she permitted it to take her self-respect and the rest of her life. Grealy told her own story in \"Autobiography of a Face\", and the story should have probably ended there, but Patchett decided the story was hers as well and essentially sold out her friend after her death. Grealy is pitiful and self-pitying, I found it nearly impossible to like her and even more difficult to respect her struggle. She used her face as an excuse for damned near everything from laziness to promiscuity to drug addiction. I am unsure why Patchett felt compelled to write this book, perhaps as a cleansing of sorts...hard to say, but it has dark and darker parts, nothing she describes sounds like real friendship and it all reads like a sad, stunted love affair, or a relationship between a caretaker and her ward. Ann conveys nothing about Lucy that makes me understand her weird attraction to her and Lucy offers little in the way of warmth or giving always taking with both hands to fill some bottomless pit of need. But if that's how she was, well, then, that IS the story I suppose. ...more Awful. Both obsequious and patronizing. Touted as a memoir of friendship. But, sweet Mary, I would not want either of the women as my friend. I have just read two books about female friendship back to back--one was the annotated letters of Eleanor Roosevelt and Lorena Hickok and the other was this one, novelist Ann Patchett's memoir of her all-encompassing and troubled friendship with poet Lucy Grealy, who is insecure, needy, and self-destructive, but also incredibly gifted. It is no spoiler to say that Lucy dies at the end, which is given away on the dust jacket and dedication page. Both books were similar in that one party to the fr I have just read two books about female friendship back to back--one was the annotated letters of Eleanor Roosevelt and Lorena Hickok and the other was this one, novelist Ann Patchett's memoir of her all-encompassing and troubled friendship with poet Lucy Grealy, who is insecure, needy, and self-destructive, but also incredibly gifted. It is no spoiler to say that Lucy dies at the end, which is given away on the dust jacket and dedication page. Both books were similar in that one party to the friendship went on to great heights of fame and accomplishment while the other achieved some success, but not enough to soothe her troubled soul. Inevitably, the career paths of the four women in the two books diverged, and not surprisingly their friendships did too. I enjoyed Patchett's book more than the Roosevelt-Hickok book simply because there was more text, more narrative, than with some footnoted letters (fascinating though they were). I've never read any of Patchett's novels, but I've read some of her articles and she's a wonderful writer. You get many intimations of her talent in this book, but this book ultimately left me cold. On one hand, Patchett purports to love Lucy, calling her the \"pettest of [her] pets,\" yet to me this book (issued rather soon after Lucy's untimely death) smacked of exploitation. Ann reveals all of Lucy's faults and weaknesses in excruciatingly painful detail, and although I could sympathize with Ann's frustration, I felt betrayed on Lucy's behalf. I can fully understand why Ann, as a writer, felt that writing would be the best way to work through her grief and make sense of her friendship with Lucy. Perhaps she felt she was honoring Lucy and giving her some of the fame that Lucy always craved. But part of me wishes Ann would have written this all down, stored it in a box, and kept it to herself. Or, at a minimum, disguised this story as a novel, which is Patchett's forte. I must admit that I thought about this book for days after I finished reading it, so it was obviously very effective in its way, but I also felt sad, very sad, that Lucy had to die and that her friend had to lay her soul so bare for the world to feast on. ...more I am often at a loss with memoirs. I don't know what I'm expecting out of them, or how really to take them. As they're about lives, they don't conform to narrative conventions, but as they're not histories, they tend to give little of the context I crave. At best, they're someone giving you a glimpse into their life, and that springs vitally from the page. At worst, it feels like reading about a stranger, without enough of the context to understand. Note: The rest of this review has been withdraw I am often at a loss with memoirs. I don't know what I'm expecting out of them, or how really to take them. As they're about lives, they don't conform to narrative conventions, but as they're not histories, they tend to give little of the context I crave. At best, they're someone giving you a glimpse into their life, and that springs vitally from the page. At worst, it feels like reading about a stranger, without enough of the context to understand. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more It's never really clear if Lucy Grealy was as much of a gigantic, useless asshole as Patchett's episodic descriptions inadvertently make her out to be. What is clear, abundantly clear, beat-you-over-the-head-with-it clear, is that Patchett needed Grealy more than anything - at least for a few years. And then the friendship sizzled out. And then Lucy overdosed (heroin) and died. And this is Patchett's homage to the friend she finally betrayed - through growing up - through just needing her own, s It's never really clear if Lucy Grealy was as much of a gigantic, useless asshole as Patchett's episodic descriptions inadvertently make her out to be. What is clear, abundantly clear, beat-you-over-the-head-with-it clear, is that Patchett needed Grealy more than anything - at least for a few years. And then the friendship sizzled out. And then Lucy overdosed (heroin) and died. And this is Patchett's homage to the friend she finally betrayed - through growing up - through just needing her own, separate life - and it's a desperate sobbing plea to be forgiven for one moment of selfishness. Througout, Patchett tries to convince us (and convince herself?) that Lucy Grealy really was something special, by George! Not just because of her really grotesque childhood cancer - which Grealy downplayed considerably in her Autobiography of A Face , or maybe I was just bored - but because she was just so ... so ... so needy. And smart. And a really talented writer. And people gravitated towards her. And she was oh my just so cool YOU JUST DON'T KNOW HOW COOL SHE WAS. Meanwhile, Grealy whines (continuously.) about how she desperately craves attention - and simultaneously whines about how no one would pay any attention to her if she weren't deformed. And she turns out to be an addict: WHAT A SURPRISE. Grealy is perfectly right. Her book is insipid, narrow, and dull - it reads like an afternoon therapy session - and if she hadn't had such a terrible cancer (and been left so terribly scarred), nobody would be interested in her, much less crave her attention with such slavish devotion. I felt terribly sorry for Lucy Grealy. 33 (!) useless surgeries, being called 'monster' and 'freak' from the time you are a little child - barely being able to eat because you have no teeth (and no jaw left for dentures or prosthesis) - it's enough to drive anyone into addiction. But my pity doesn't make Patchett a better writer. ...more Having recently read \"State of Wonder\" and \"Bel Canto\", I became an overnight devoted fan of Ann Patchett. And how was I to know that the memoir of her dear friend and fellow author would be just about unreadable? The book describes this intense (passionate, though platonic) friendship with a female poet she met in college. The friend, Lucy, was a pitiful victim of cancer which left her without the lower half of her face. She underwent over 38 surgeries during her lifetime to try to rebuild her Having recently read \"State of Wonder\" and \"Bel Canto\", I became an overnight devoted fan of Ann Patchett. And how was I to know that the memoir of her dear friend and fellow author would be just about unreadable? The book describes this intense (passionate, though platonic) friendship with a female poet she met in college. The friend, Lucy, was a pitiful victim of cancer which left her without the lower half of her face. She underwent over 38 surgeries during her lifetime to try to rebuild her face. She suffered extraordinary pain and disfigurement and eventually addiction to drugs. Ann was a saint who supported her, sometimes financially, always emotionally, and frequently served as a cook, secretary, maid, dresser, and go-between. Here's the problem: neither Ann nor Lucy are even remotely likable people. Lucy is a whiny narcissistic selfish bitch and Ann is a boring martyr drudge. At one point in the book Ann is giving writerly advice to Lucy who is trying to come up with ideas for a novel. Ann says something to the effect that you can't make all of the characters despicable. Someone has to be at least superficially likable: GOOD ADVICE! It's clear from the first page that Lucy is going to die, so I am not giving away the ending. That being said, I eventually felt like Elaine on Seinfeld when she was \"forced\" to watch \"The English Patient\". She starts yelling in the theater: \"Would ya just die already and get it over with!!\" ...more So this was Ann Patchett's third strike and this reader declares her banned from the game in perpetuity. Certainly better than State of Wonder and Bel Canto (I don't care how many awards that book won, it's bad!) and I've wasted enough time trying to figure out what people see in her as a writer. Easy to see what Lucy Grealy saw in her as a friend, though - an eager co-dependent. While the fact that this is not a novel helps Patchett on the plotting front significantly (no more crazy and unbeliev So this was Ann Patchett's third strike and this reader declares her banned from the game in perpetuity. Certainly better than State of Wonder and Bel Canto (I don't care how many awards that book won, it's bad!) and I've wasted enough time trying to figure out what people see in her as a writer. Easy to see what Lucy Grealy saw in her as a friend, though - an eager co-dependent. While the fact that this is not a novel helps Patchett on the plotting front significantly (no more crazy and unbelievable endings as the facts dictated the end of this one), there are still incredible gaps in the narrative that leave the reader frustrated. Where were Lucy Grealy's parents and her relationship to her parents in this whole extraordinary mess of a life? How is it possible two such close friends would never have discussed their parents - or their siblings? How can one write a 257-page book about one of your closest friendships and never mention that one's friend has a non-identical twin? Here's an article from Lucy Grealy's sister that raises some of these questions - and a whole lot more: http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2004/... ...more This was an incredible book about friendship. Lucy Grealy had cancer when she was young, which resulted in several surgeries to remove parts of her jaw. These surgeries left her with a deformed face. Ann met Lucy in her early 20\u2019s. She immediately befriended Lucy and \u201cfelt chosen by Lucy and was thrilled.\u201d Lucy had a lot of friends. But it never seemed to be enough. Ann beautifully describes her friend in these words, \u2026\u201dLucy\u2019s loneliness was breathtaking in its enormity. If she emptied out Grand This was an incredible book about friendship. Lucy Grealy had cancer when she was young, which resulted in several surgeries to remove parts of her jaw. These surgeries left her with a deformed face. Ann met Lucy in her early 20\u2019s. She immediately befriended Lucy and \u201cfelt chosen by Lucy and was thrilled.\u201d Lucy had a lot of friends. But it never seemed to be enough. Ann beautifully describes her friend in these words, \u2026\u201dLucy\u2019s loneliness was breathtaking in its enormity. If she emptied out Grand Central Station and filled it with the people she knew well, the people who loved her, there would be more than 100 people\u2026If you added to that number all the people who loved her because of her book, all the people who admired her, all the people who had heard her speak or had seen her on television or listened to her on the radio and loved the sound of her odd little voice, you could pack in thousands and thousands of more people, and still it wouldn\u2019t feel full, not full enough to take up every square inch of her loneliness. Lucy thought that all she needed was one person, the right person, and all the empty space would be taken away from her. But there was no one in the world who was big enough for that. She believed that if she had a jaw that was like everyone else\u2019s jaw, she would have found that person by now. She was trapped in a room full of mirrors, and every direction she looked in she saw herself, her face, her loneliness. She couldn\u2019t see that no one else was perfect either, and that so much of love was the work of it. She had worked on everything else. Love would have to be charmed.\u201d To me, this described Lucy the best. I commend Ann for being such a great friend. I am not sure if I would have the patience to be a friend to someone as hard on life and on love, as Lucy. Very moving. I would never had read this if it wasn\u2019t for book club. I am so glad I did. I am going to add Autobiography of a Face to my wishlist. ...more Lucy Grealy could be a challenging personality to endure after a while, as depicted here. A victim of cancer as a child, her face was disfigured and needed many years of surgeries to make it into a semblance of normal again. Along the way she met Ann Patchett and a long friendship ensued. Ann's love of Lucy with all her flaws -- her emotional neediness, her lack of responsibility, and her promiscuity, to name a few -- grew through their many years of shared experiences. To me it seemed a very on Lucy Grealy could be a challenging personality to endure after a while, as depicted here. A victim of cancer as a child, her face was disfigured and needed many years of surgeries to make it into a semblance of normal again. Along the way she met Ann Patchett and a long friendship ensued. Ann's love of Lucy with all her flaws -- her emotional neediness, her lack of responsibility, and her promiscuity, to name a few -- grew through their many years of shared experiences. To me it seemed a very one-sided friendship and Ann deserved sainthood because of how she gave and gave, and Lucy took and took. The audio is narrated by Ms. Patchett. I am a big fan of many Patchett works, but this failed to impress me. I'm sure Lucy was a perfectly likeable person in her short life, and I am sorry not to have grasped very much of that in this book other than when I was being told about all the many friends Lucy managed to somehow have. What I did enjoy was hearing about the writers struggling to get a break, all their trials and tribulations and successes. When Ann and a friend both finished their first books at the same time, they stood on them to see how much \"taller\" the books made them. Loved that. ...more This is the true story of two friends, both authors, one being a favorite of mine, Ann Patchet, and the other Lucy Grealy. I consistently love Patchett's writing, she finds beautiful ways to describe things, so this book was a pleasure for me. It's the story of their friendship, of what it's like to be an author, of the expectation for life when you're an artist, what life will mean, and what meaning will be a part of your life. Lucy almost felt like a character to me, and I don't totally unders This is the true story of two friends, both authors, one being a favorite of mine, Ann Patchet, and the other Lucy Grealy. I consistently love Patchett's writing, she finds beautiful ways to describe things, so this book was a pleasure for me. It's the story of their friendship, of what it's like to be an author, of the expectation for life when you're an artist, what life will mean, and what meaning will be a part of your life. Lucy almost felt like a character to me, and I don't totally understand their friendship, but sometimes friendship isn't to be explained. Hearing the description of Lucy's life made me have an appreciation, if not sadness for her desperation to be recognized for her artistic contribution, and how much darkness she hid inside of her throughout her life. A darkness that eventually caught up with her. It was also fun to hear stories about when Patchett herself was starting out as a writer, and how different her process is from that of Grealy's. All in all if you're a Patchett fan I would recommend this one, although you have to have some patience for an attention starved artist if you're going to make it all the way through. ...more i had never read ann patchett nor had i ever read a book where the muse was a friend. there's something so rich and unmined about friendship, especially-I think-between women. I loved this. Every page. There was a time in my life when I would've said that \"Bel Canto\" was my favorite book. It wasn't an entirely arbitrary choice, because each time I've read that book, starting with the first time when I was fourteen, it's astounded me with it's beauty and sensitivity and also what a helluva plot. If pressed, I often followed that \"what's your favorite book\" question (which always struck me as something kind of ridiculous-- \"Halley, what's the favorite step you've ever taken?\" How do I even answe There was a time in my life when I would've said that \"Bel Canto\" was my favorite book. It wasn't an entirely arbitrary choice, because each time I've read that book, starting with the first time when I was fourteen, it's astounded me with it's beauty and sensitivity and also what a helluva plot. If pressed, I often followed that \"what's your favorite book\" question (which always struck me as something kind of ridiculous-- \"Halley, what's the favorite step you've ever taken?\" How do I even answer that?) with Ann Patchett as one of my favorite authors, but if \"Bel Canto\" was an arbitrary answer, then that was even more so. I think she's a great writer but \"Bel Canto\" is the only book of hers that really touched me at all. The rest I found well-written but sort of pointlessly beautiful. (If that's even a phrase that means anything?) But. This book. I'm in a sentimental place right now, but reading about the beautiful nuances of her friendship with Lucy really did move me. I ended up reading the last chapter aloud, twice, because I wanted to really absorb the words. I knew what was coming-- the dedication doesn't really leave a lot of room-- but even so, I kept hoping maybe I was wrong. Maybe it's immature but I've always believed that lovers can be lost but friendship should be forever-- it's the family you choose for yourself, and as such, it has to stick around forever. (I know. I know that's not true.) How could something so important get left behind? How do you live having been left? I read a blurb from Lucy's family that they wished AP hadn't written this book, that their grief should have been something private, but the enormity of what Patchett felt for Lucy radiates through this whole book and there's a part of me that believes there was no other way to deal with this story for her than to turn it into art. Patchett's meditations on Lucy's relation to non-fiction in her own work resonated here too-- she's a writer, this may not be verbatim the truth. She's building a portrait of someone immeasurably important to her and maybe the tiny pieces of her were exaggerated and tweaked but I do believe that this bigger, beautiful picture is Lucy Grealy to Ann Patchett as she knew her. Oh God, I'm still crying a little from finishing this. Pull it together, Sutton! ...more This is was a recent book club selection. I had a difficult time forcing myself to read it at first. I wrote harsh notes as I was reading. I didn't think the writing was good at all. I didn't care for Lucy Grealy and Ann Patchett seemed like a bit of a doormat. I was annoyed by the fact that there was little or no character development. I know it's a memoir, but I had a difficult time connecting with the two women in the story because Patchett didn't offer much insight into their character. But This is was a recent book club selection. I had a difficult time forcing myself to read it at first. I wrote harsh notes as I was reading. I didn't think the writing was good at all. I didn't care for Lucy Grealy and Ann Patchett seemed like a bit of a doormat. I was annoyed by the fact that there was little or no character development. I know it's a memoir, but I had a difficult time connecting with the two women in the story because Patchett didn't offer much insight into their character. But slowly my opinion began to turn around and I found myself looking forward to reading about this friendship and eventually I found myself charmed by this book. Charmed by what or whom I'm not exactly sure, by Lucy Grealy? maybe, by Ann Patchett's constant love for Lucy? perhaps. I honestly don't know exactly what it was that made me turn my opinion of this book around a hundred and eighty degrees but that's what happened. I often wondered why Ann Patchett wrote this book, what was her purpose? At the beginning of the book, when I was forcing myself to read it, I ascribed uncharitable reasons. And now, I can't say I know but it seemed like she wrote this as a record and a tribute to her love for Lucy. I think it is nearly impossible to accurately articulate the depth of love you feel for someone. But you can tell someone else what you did with them, how you worried about them, your favorite things to do together, how they drove you crazy sometimes but you loved them anyway. And that to me, is what this is, it's the things you say, the stories you tell after someone you loved has died. Unfortunatly Lucy and everyone in her life seemed to focus their attention on the medical struggles that resulted from and revolved around her cancer. While little if any attention was paid to her mental health which I think was a shame. ...more The friendship of Lucy Grealy and Ann Patchett was extraordinary and excruciating. I\u2019ve had some remarkable friendships in my life, but this book forced serious introspection. I identify with Ann, and wonder: could I love someone as broken or needy as Lucy? Would I have the courage to stand up to a self-destructing friend? Do I have the fortitude to stick by a friend through gruesome surgeries/recoveries? Or maybe I am more of Lucy--searching for Perfect Love, drawing others in for my own amusem The friendship of Lucy Grealy and Ann Patchett was extraordinary and excruciating. I\u2019ve had some remarkable friendships in my life, but this book forced serious introspection. I identify with Ann, and wonder: could I love someone as broken or needy as Lucy? Would I have the courage to stand up to a self-destructing friend? Do I have the fortitude to stick by a friend through gruesome surgeries/recoveries? Or maybe I am more of Lucy--searching for Perfect Love, drawing others in for my own amusement, masking deep hurts with superficial chaos. So perhaps I am both of Ann and Lucy. I\u2019m not a big fan of the new paperback\u2019s Ya-Ya-Sisterhood cover, but turns out I AM a big fan of author Ann Patchett. (I swear, just when I think I'm hopelessly wed to fiction, a book like this comes along and changes everything...) Above all, this book reaffirmed what I know of friendship\u2014-it makes us in the best of times, and saves us in the worst of times. ...more Couldn't get into this book because there was no real character development. The book is not so much a narrative as a portrait, a portrait both of Lucy Grealy and of the friendship between Ann Patchett and Grealy. But Lucy at the end of the book is pretty much Lucy at the beginning of the book--with more success and a drug addiction. And Ann doesn't really change either, though she arguably matures and is more comfortable in her own skin by the end. The friendship, to be sure, undergoes some sli Couldn't get into this book because there was no real character development. The book is not so much a narrative as a portrait, a portrait both of Lucy Grealy and of the friendship between Ann Patchett and Grealy. But Lucy at the end of the book is pretty much Lucy at the beginning of the book--with more success and a drug addiction. And Ann doesn't really change either, though she arguably matures and is more comfortable in her own skin by the end. The friendship, to be sure, undergoes some slight shifts, but the shifts are predictable and not especially enlightening. There are several quite good passages in the book, but as a whole, it just falls flat, b/c both the main characters and the friendship are one-dimensional and static. The book concludes with Lucy's death, but it is death without tragedy, or, more accurately, Patchett fails to bring out the tragedy of Lucy's death. And that is an artistic tragedy. ...more I didn't know much about Patchett or Grealy before reading this memoir and I still don't, but I love how Patchett details this intense friendship between two writers and gives you a close look at the writing process, how people develop and why we keep writing. Here's what Patchett has to say of Grealy: \"What the story doesn't tell you is that the ant relented at the eleventh hour and took in the grasshopper when the weather was hard, fed him on his tenderest store of grass all winter. The tortois I didn't know much about Patchett or Grealy before reading this memoir and I still don't, but I love how Patchett details this intense friendship between two writers and gives you a close look at the writing process, how people develop and why we keep writing. Here's what Patchett has to say of Grealy: \"What the story doesn't tell you is that the ant relented at the eleventh hour and took in the grasshopper when the weather was hard, fed him on his tenderest store of grass all winter. The tortoise, being uninterested in such things, gave his medal to the hare. Grasshoppers and hares find the ants and tortoises. They need us to survive, but we need them as well. They were the ones who brought truth and beauty to the party, which Lucy could tell you as she recited her Keats over breakfast, was better than food any day.\" ...more My best friend Audrey gave me this book at the same time she gave me the book \"Autobiography of a face\". What a great present. I would read them in the order they are written (autobiography) first. The first book is just an interesting story which is well written. I really liked this book b/c it was mostly about the power of friendship. We all know the power of a good relationship with a significant other but rarely is the power of a female friendship written about. I can relate to this book (in My best friend Audrey gave me this book at the same time she gave me the book \"Autobiography of a face\". What a great present. I would read them in the order they are written (autobiography) first. The first book is just an interesting story which is well written. I really liked this book b/c it was mostly about the power of friendship. We all know the power of a good relationship with a significant other but rarely is the power of a female friendship written about. I can relate to this book (in some ways) in regards to the girlfriend that gave me the books. We have been through many different periods in our lives together, I've been sad, she's been sad and hopefully we have helped each other out during those times even those we have mostly lived miles apart. ...more", "Title": "Truth and Beauty"},
