{"Comments": "The two teenage girls at the right in the back row in this picture are my paternal grandmother and her sister. Their parents and grandfather are in the front row.<---F> The picture was taken around 1900</---F>. A few years later,<---M> my grandmother</---M>, rebellious and politically inclined, left the small town in Poland and came, alone, to the United States. She was one of the very few members of her family to escape the Holocaust. Like many American Jews, I don't know precisely what happened to my relatives. Daniel The two teenage girls at the right in the back row in this picture are my paternal grandmother and her sister. Their parents and grandfather are in the front row. The picture was taken around 1900. A few years later, my grandmother, rebellious and politically inclined, left the small town in Poland and came, alone, to the United States. She was one of the very few members of her family to escape the Holocaust. Like many American Jews, I don't know precisely what happened to my relatives. <---A>Daniel Mendelsohn</---A> didn't know what happened to six members of his family who he heard spoken of in hushed tones as a child. His effort to find out took many years and took him all over the world in a frantic effort to interview eyewitnesses before they died. The story he tells in this book is both personal and common to millions of people. It is beautifully written, sometimes tedious, often suspenseful, always heartbreaking and indispensable in commemorating what has been lost. ...more This is listed as being a \u201cNew York Times Bestseller.\u201d One would think that I should have had my fill of Holocaust stories, but apparently not, as this one jumped into my hand at Borders even though I hadn\u2019t known of its existence. It\u2019s not an easy read. Mendelsohn never used one comma in a sentence where he could insert three or four. I was often lost in sentences wandering through parenthetical phrase after parenthetical phrase until I had to back up and take them out in turn in order to tack This is listed as being a \u201cNew York Times Bestseller.\u201d One would think that I should have had my fill of Holocaust stories, but apparently not, as this one jumped into my hand at Borders even though I hadn\u2019t known of its existence. It\u2019s not an easy read. Mendelsohn never used one comma in a sentence where he could insert three or four. I was often lost in sentences wandering through parenthetical phrase after parenthetical phrase until I had to back up and take them out in turn in order to tack the beginning of the sentence onto the end and make some sense of the thing. It also included large sections in italics which expounded on Jewish history and religion, and where Mendelsohn apparently endeavored to draw parallels between his story and legendary Jewish lore. I say endeavored because I soon gave up on reading them. I found the interruption of these units intolerable in a story that was moving all too slowly to begin with, what with its innumerable musings on history and the psychology of remembrance. Besides, I find it difficult to read great blocks of italics. This book had a fascinating story to tell, but the author badly needed an editor. The path to finding out what happened to his great uncle when he was killed by the Nazis was a long one, with many doublings-back and crisscrosses, enough to confuse and tire even the most persistent reader. He had many interesting things to say about the nature of memory and stories, but I tired of hearing him say them again and again, and again. ...more So, I just officially finished my book, The Lost, yesterday (<---B>big cheers for me!</---B>) and thought I\u2019d let you know what I thought about it...I will start with what I didn\u2019t like. It was long (500 pages \u2013 a lot for me at this point in my life!) and as I mentioned earlier a little slow at the beginning. There was a lot of detailed discussion on various stories of the Torah which was interesting at first but by the last 50 pages I had begun skipping over to go straight to the actual storyline. Overall, So, I just officially finished my book, The Lost, yesterday (big cheers for me!) and thought I\u2019d let you know what I thought about it...I will start with what I didn\u2019t like. It was long (500 pages \u2013 a lot for me at this point in my life!) and as I mentioned earlier a little slow at the beginning. There was a lot of detailed discussion on various stories of the Torah which was interesting at first but by the last 50 pages I had begun skipping over to go straight to the actual storyline. Overall, however, I found the book quite fascinating. I thought it was amazing that at such an early age the author became so obsessed with his family history. He wrote letters to distant aunts and uncles and had a running letter correspondence with his grandfather trying to find out what they remembered about his uncle and his family (who as I mentioned before all he really knew at first was \u201chad been killed by the Nazis\u201d), and interestingly enough he still didn\u2019t find out all he could have before many of them died because he didn\u2019t yet know what questions to ask. The curiosity eventually becomes a quest to know everything he can know about this family (his Uncle Shmiel, Aunt Ester and their 4 daughters) and takes him all around the world searching out the surviving Jews from the small town of Bolechow (he mentions how many had survived the Holocaust and I believe it was only around 30) to interview and try to piece the story of their lives back together again. One of my favorite thoughts coming from the book was toward the end when the author describes what we tend to think of losing as the result of these mass genocides or of any death really...\u201dWe tend, naturally to think first of the people themselves, the families that will cease existing, the children that will never be born; and then of the homely things with which most of us are familiar, the houses and mementoes and photographs that, because those people no longer exist, will stop having any meaning at all. But there is this too: the thoughts that will never be thought, the discoveries that will never be made, the art that will never be created. The problems, written in a book somewhere, a book that will outlive the people who wrote down the problems, that will never be solved.\u201d The author did an excellent job at presenting his story in a way that makes you think about the Holocaust from a totally different perspective that we are used to and for that I would recommend it...just don\u2019t give up after the first 50 pages! ...more There may just be a vertical hierarchy in our popular understanding of the Holocaust. At the top, however uneasy, are the Survivors: it is through their testimony that we know to never forget. Their is also a measure of merit in having outwitted or simply survived the minatory machinations of the Nazis. below them are the victims, particularly present when the doltish ask \"why they went like sheep, why they didn\u2019t fight back, why they didn\u2019t heed the signs in the 1930s?\" Below that mound of evid There may just be a vertical hierarchy in our popular understanding of the Holocaust. At the top, however uneasy, are the Survivors: it is through their testimony that we know to never forget. Their is also a measure of merit in having outwitted or simply survived the minatory machinations of the Nazis. below them are the victims, particularly present when the doltish ask \"why they went like sheep, why they didn\u2019t fight back, why they didn\u2019t heed the signs in the 1930s?\" Below that mound of evidence is nefarious mass of perpetrators, willing executioners, ordinary men, the devil incarnate and the betrayers. If only life was that fucking simple. Mr. Mendelson constructs a marvelous investigation sixty years after the fact. His training as a classicist lends a unique angle to his research. The idea of using Dido as an apt metaphor is astonishing: victim and exile, she prospers from her wits only to kill herself. If ever an example antiicpated the Survivor, this is it. ...more \u201cA toda essa dist\u00e2ncia, ao fim de todos aqueles anos e ali estava ela, sentada \u00e0 mesa comigo, ali estava ele, a conversar comigo ao telefone, ali estavam eles, ali andavam eles se soub\u00e9ssemos onde encontr\u00e1-los: recordando-os.\u201d (P.167) Ester, Bronia e Schmiel J\u00e4ger My cousin, who I have never been close to, lent me <+++>The Lost: A Search for Six of Six Million</+++> on her recent visit to France. At the time, she had no idea how interested in this book I would be. The memoir recounts Daniel Mendelsohn\u2019s search for information about the lives and deaths of his great uncle and his family. His journey starts with only one sure fact: his Uncle Shmiel and family were killed during the Nazi occupation of eastern Poland (now Ukraine). As a Ukraine-phile, I was particularly in My cousin, who I have never been close to, lent me <+++>The Lost: A Search for Six of Six Million</+++> on her recent visit to France. At the time, she had no idea how interested in this book I would be. The memoir recounts Daniel Mendelsohn\u2019s search for information about the lives and deaths of his great uncle and his family. His journey starts with only one sure fact: his Uncle Shmiel and family were killed during the Nazi occupation of eastern Poland (now Ukraine). As a Ukraine-phile, I was particularly interested that from his childhood, Mendelsohn\u2019s grandfather (Uncle Shmiel\u2019s brother) teaches him that Ukrainians are the worst people alive\u2014much worse than the Nazis themselves. Yet, when he returns to his family\u2019s ancestral village, Mendelsohn discovers the Ukrainians there are kind and gracious. These sections resonate with me as I, too, struggle with similar feelings (though, of course, not on such a personal level as Mendelsohn). How can I love Ukraine so much knowing many Ukrainians collaborated with the Nazis? I had an epiphany as I read Mendelsohn\u2019s hypothesis that both Ukrainians and Jews, at this time, are at the bottom of the food chain. As such, the two groups struggle to gain ground on each other. For example, when the Russians are in power, the Jewish community is relieved because they alleviate some of its suffering. Yet, the Ukrainians are tortured at the Russian\u2019s hands. Conversely, when the Germans take over, the Ukrainians are happy, while the Jews suffer unimaginably. I read this section, had my epiphany, on a flight from Slovakia to France and found myself weeping on the plane. Yet, the book also includes graphic accounts of Ukrainian abuse that is simply irreconcilable. I found myself constantly shaking my head as I read descriptions of torture\u2014of children smashed against rocks and men\u2019s eyes cut out. I instinctively tried to shake these images from my mind. Although the book is long, over 500 pages, and often meanders and is repetitive, I found myself completely invested in knowing for myself what happened to Uncle Shmiel, his wife, and four daughters. Yet, I also had a sense that Mendelsohn is disingenuous in some of his writing. For example, he shares a family narrative about his great aunt being sold into marriage. Yet, in an earlier book, Mendelsohn writes about discovering this family story is not true. He never shares this fact with the readers of The Lost. I finished the book, then, wondering if what Mendelsohn left out of the book is just as important as what he includes. ...more The best thing I read last year. It took me many months to finish this book as I would get overwhelmed by the detail, but I always felt compelled to pick it back up after a breather and continue. This book made the holocaust real for me in a way nothing else, including the Washington D.C museum, has. Brilliant the way Mendelhsson addresses the vast scale of the holocaust while at the same time narrowing it down to individual people who are not heroes or villians, but a regular family like anyone The best thing I read last year. It took me many months to finish this book as I would get overwhelmed by the detail, but I always felt compelled to pick it back up after a breather and continue. This book made the holocaust real for me in a way nothing else, including the Washington D.C museum, has. Brilliant the way Mendelhsson addresses the vast scale of the holocaust while at the same time narrowing it down to individual people who are not heroes or villians, but a regular family like anyone else. ...more This books takes patience and is not a quick read, but it is well worth the effort. The author makes fascinating use of the Torah to help us understand his journey into his family's past. It is a book that leaves you exhausted-- this wasn't easy to write, and I have great respect for that. The title suggests that it's about searching for the fate of 6 specific Holocaust victims, but it's about so much more than that-- memory, human nature, knowing and history, surviving after Surviving, family, This books takes patience and is not a quick read, but it is well worth the effort. The author makes fascinating use of the Torah to help us understand his journey into his family's past. It is a book that leaves you exhausted-- this wasn't easy to write, and I have great respect for that. The title suggests that it's about searching for the fate of 6 specific Holocaust victims, but it's about so much more than that-- memory, human nature, knowing and history, surviving after Surviving, family, how we \"know\" those around us. Again, fascinating. ...more \"Estar vivo \u00e9 ter uma hist\u00f3ria para contar. Estar vivo \u00e9, precisamente, ser o her\u00f3i, o centro de uma hist\u00f3ria de vida. Quando n\u00e3o se pode ser mais nada al\u00e9m de uma personagem secund\u00e1ria na hist\u00f3ria de algu\u00e9m, isso significa que se est\u00e1 verdadeiramente morto.\" (P\u00e1g. 480) \u201cOs Desaparecidos \u2013 \u00c0 procura de seis em seis milh\u00f5es\u201d \u00e9 um livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o escrito pelo jornalista, cr\u00edtico e escritor norte-americano Daniel Mendelsohn (n. 1960), editado em 2006 e que recebeu in\u00fameros pr\u00e9mios liter\u00e1rios, co \"Estar vivo \u00e9 ter uma hist\u00f3ria para contar. Estar vivo \u00e9, precisamente, ser o her\u00f3i, o centro de uma hist\u00f3ria de vida. Quando n\u00e3o se pode ser mais nada al\u00e9m de uma personagem secund\u00e1ria na hist\u00f3ria de algu\u00e9m, isso significa que se est\u00e1 verdadeiramente morto.\" (P\u00e1g. 480) \u201cOs Desaparecidos \u2013 \u00c0 procura de seis em seis milh\u00f5es\u201d \u00e9 um livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o escrito pelo jornalista, cr\u00edtico e escritor norte-americano Daniel Mendelsohn (n. 1960), editado em 2006 e que recebeu in\u00fameros pr\u00e9mios liter\u00e1rios, com destaque para o National Book Critics Circle Awrad . \u201dH\u00e1 algum tempo, teria eu seis, ou sete, ou mesmo oito anos, podia acontecer-me entrar numa sala e certas pessoas come\u00e7arem a chorar.\u201d , assim come\u00e7a o livro \u201cOs Desaparecidos \u2013 \u00c0 procura de seis em seis milh\u00f5es\u201d , com o jovem Daniel Mendelsohn , a ouvir os sussurros \u201ddesses velhos e velhas\u201d judeus \u201dOh, ele parece-se tanto com o Shmiel!\u201d . \u201dDeste Shmiel, claro, alguma coisa eu sabia: irm\u00e3o mais velho do meu av\u00f4, que com a mulher e as suas quatro lindas filhas fora morto pelos nazis durante a guerra. Shmiel. Morto pelos nazis.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 25) \"... Shmiel (...): irm\u00e3o mais velho do meu av\u00f4, que, com a mulher e as suas quatro lindas filhas fora morto pelos nazis durante a guerra. Shmiel. Morto pelos nazis. \" (P\u00e1g. 25) Daniel Mendelsohn pretende construir ou reconstruir a hist\u00f3ria sobre o passado da sua fam\u00edlia, em particular, sobre o seu tio-av\u00f4 Shmiel, a sua mulher Ester, e quatro filhas, Lorka, Frydka, Ruchele e Bronia - \u201cOs Desaparecidos \u2013 \u00c0 procura de seis em seis milh\u00f5es\u201d , um desejo, um fasc\u00ednio, uma obsess\u00e3o, que come\u00e7a por fragmentos de \u201chist\u00f3rias\u201d e \u201csegredos\u201d murmurados, por um conjunto de fotografias antigas e por um pequeno ma\u00e7o de cartas que o seu av\u00f4 deixou ap\u00f3s a morte, numa pesquisa e numa investiga\u00e7\u00e3o que come\u00e7a na pequena aldeia de Bolechow ou Bolekhiv, na Pol\u00f3nia ou na Ucr\u00e2nia, e que o leva a Israel, \u00e0 Austr\u00e1lia, \u00e0 Dinamarca e \u00e0 Su\u00e9cia. Com base em entrevistas e depoimentos de in\u00fameras testemunhas, nem sempre coincidentes, incluindo, familiares e amigos, sobretudo, os \u00faltimos bolechowitas , com quem se encontrou e conversou, partilhando \u201cmomentos\u201d e \u201cmem\u00f3rias\u201d dolorosas sobre acontecimentos dram\u00e1ticos, profundamente perturbadores, Daniel Mendelsohn , escreve um livro com um rigor hist\u00f3rico inquestion\u00e1vel, num contexto narrativo que vai avan\u00e7ando quase como numa investiga\u00e7\u00e3o \u201cpolicial\u201d, procurando pequenos ind\u00edcios, algumas pistas, surgindo algumas coincid\u00eancias que s\u00e3o determinantes nessa pesquisa, para resgatar a uma obscuridade o passado, comovente e tr\u00e1gico, dos seus seis familiares, conseguindo \u201cindividualizar\u201d o seu mart\u00edrio e a sua morte, num enquadramento catastr\u00f3fico de genoc\u00eddio \u00e9tnico dos seis milh\u00f5es de judeus durante a Segunda Guerra Mundial. Ester , a sua mulher, Bronia , a sua filha, Sam (Shmiel) \u201cOs Desaparecidos \u2013 \u00c0 procura de seis em seis milh\u00f5es\u201d \u00e9 um excelente livro de n\u00e3o-fic\u00e7\u00e3o de Daniel Mendelsohn , com fotografias do seu irm\u00e3o Matt Mendelsohn , sobre um dos per\u00edodos mais conturbados e dram\u00e1ticos da hist\u00f3ria Mundial e Europeia, o genoc\u00eddio de cerca de seis milh\u00f5es de judeus, num exterm\u00ednio \u00e9tnico liderado por Adolf Hitler e pelo Partido Nazi, que ocorreu em in\u00fameros territ\u00f3rios ocupados pelos alem\u00e3es durante a Segunda Guerra Mundial. \"Compreendo, ao reler estas cartas, que o que as torna t\u00e3o assustadoramente comovedoras \u00e9 o tratamento na segunda pessoa. Todas as cartas, realmente, s\u00e3o dirigidas a um \"tu\" - \"Despe\u00e7o-me de ti e beijo-te do fundo do meu cora\u00e7\u00e3o\", \u00e9 a frase de despedida de Shmiel - e \u00e9 por causa disto que se torna t\u00e3o dif\u00edcil, ao ler as cartas, mesmo as dirigidas a outras pessoas , n\u00e3o nos sentirmos implicados, n\u00e3o nos sentirmos vagamente respons\u00e1veis. Ao ler as cartas de Shmiel, quando as encontrei, foi a minha primeira experi\u00eancia de estranha proximidade com os mortos que, no entanto, conseguem sempre permanecer fora do nosso alcance.\" (P\u00e1g. 119) \u201cPara mim Auschwitz representa o oposto do que me interessava e \u2013 como comecei a constatar no dia em que de facto fui a Auschwitz \u2013 da raz\u00e3o pela qual tinha feito aquela viagem. Auschwitz, agora, tornara-se no s\u00edmbolo de uma s\u00f3 palavra, gigantesco, na generaliza\u00e7\u00e3o grosseira, estenogr\u00e1fica, para o que acontecera aos judeus da Europa (\u2026) Mas mesmo que aceitemos Auschwitz como s\u00edmbolo, pensava eu enquanto andava naquele ch\u00e3o t\u00e3o estranhamente pac\u00edfico e bem tratado, h\u00e1 problemas. Tinha sido para salvar os meus parentes de generalidades, s\u00edmbolos, abreviaturas, para lhes restaurar as suas particularidades e caracter\u00edsticas pr\u00f3prias que eu fizera esta viagem bizarra e \u00e1rdua. Mortos pelos nazis - sim, mas por quem, exactamente? A pavorosa ironia de Auschwitz, (...) \u00e9 que a extens\u00e3o do que mostra \u00e9 t\u00e3o gigantesca que o colectivo e o an\u00f3nimo, todo o \u00e2mbito do crime, est\u00e3o constantemente, paradoxalmente, expressos \u00e0 custa de qualquer sentido da vida individual. (\u2026) E assim, enquanto andava por Auschwitz, debatia-me com a pergunta sobre o motivo por que uma pessoa vai como turista a lugares como este. N\u00e3o, de uma forma geral pelo menos, para aprender o que a\u00ed sucedeu; pois quem quer que v\u00e1 a Auschwitz e a muitos outros lugares como esse j\u00e1 sabe o que l\u00e1 se passou. E tamb\u00e9m n\u00e3o certamente para ficar com uma ideia melhor sobre \"como era aquilo\"...\" (P\u00e1g. 132 - 133) ...more This book is sad and beautiful and riveting. The story itself isn't unusual since the fate of this family was the fate of many European Jews in the Holocaust. But the author pursues the story with such loving care, and the uncovering of what happened is handled almost unbearably well. I also enjoyed how the author wove in philology/etymology and biblical reference. I loved it. I cried all over it. I forced it on my mother. A beautifully written, evocative book. Dense, full of tangents, and telling the story of several generations across several continents. Mendelsohn is the self-appointed family historian who, after an entire childhood of listening to his grandfather's stories, decides to find out what happened to the family members who were left out - his grandfather's brother, his wife, and their four daughters, who were \"killed by the Nazis\". With little more to go on (when he begins his search, he was unsure ev A beautifully written, evocative book. Dense, full of tangents, and telling the story of several generations across several continents. Mendelsohn is the self-appointed family historian who, after an entire childhood of listening to his grandfather's stories, decides to find out what happened to the family members who were left out - his grandfather's brother, his wife, and their four daughters, who were \"killed by the Nazis\". With little more to go on (when he begins his search, he was unsure even of the daughters' names and birth order), his five year investigation into the lost branch of his family took him all across Europe, to Australia, Israel, and back. He did a wonderful job telling not only the story of the lost family members, but also his grandfather's story, the story of a small town in Eastern Poland, the story of the early chapters of the Torah, and, finally, his own story of how they all intertwine. He writes the book to reflect his grandfather's style of \"Chinese box\" storytelling, where a broad, meandering tale slowly comes into focus, just in time for the punchline or the tragedy that brings it all together. Part memoir, part biography, part biblical study, part history, part mystery, part tragedy, it's a powerful, non-judgmental look at a complicated time in our history and what it meant for his family. ...more A friend of mine gave me her copy of this book, telling me I should read it because of the intimacy my own life has had in recent years to the Holocaust. My boyfriend's grandparents were both Holocaust survivors who emigrated to the US after the war. The book focuses on one man's search to find out more about 'the lost,' six members of his family (an aunt, uncle, and four cousins) who perished in the war, but no one knows exactly how. He travels to multiple countries over several years interview A friend of mine gave me her copy of this book, telling me I should read it because of the intimacy my own life has had in recent years to the Holocaust. My boyfriend's grandparents were both Holocaust survivors who emigrated to the US after the war. The book focuses on one man's search to find out more about 'the lost,' six members of his family (an aunt, uncle, and four cousins) who perished in the war, but no one knows exactly how. He travels to multiple countries over several years interviewing Jews from his family's tiny town in what is now Ukraine. The similarities between this man's family and what I know of the experiences of my boyfriend's family were in many cases eerily and s unsettlingly similar. You have to work at reading this book -- it's nearly 600 pages -- and the subject matter and prose can sometimes make you feel like you're hardly making any headway. It's not a quick read, but by the end you feel an intimacy with the author. You wish you could just call him up and talk to him about his experiences. I think anyone who is interested in the Holocaust, or can appreciate the journey of trying to discover more about your family and your heritage, will enjoy reading this book. ...more Wow, what a moving read. This book totally reminded me of my own family history, and my own desire to re-connect with and reconstruct a world that has been almost completely lost with the generation of people who lived through the Holocaust. But this is not just another book about the Holocaust -- it's a book about the nature of memory and storytelling, about how our history determines who we are in the present and who we will become in the future. Nevertheless, I can imagine that this is not ne Wow, what a moving read. This book totally reminded me of my own family history, and my own desire to re-connect with and reconstruct a world that has been almost completely lost with the generation of people who lived through the Holocaust. But this is not just another book about the Holocaust -- it's a book about the nature of memory and storytelling, about how our history determines who we are in the present and who we will become in the future. Nevertheless, I can imagine that this is not necessarily a book that will appeal to everyone -- there are a lot of references to Jewish religious tradition and culture that takes a certain kind of interest, or the patience to learn about it. Still, this love that went into researching and writing this book is so evident, and that, I think, can touch just about anyone. ...more This is one of the most excruciatingly haunting books I've ever read. It is marvelously told, the story of Daniel Mendelsohn searching for details -- specifics! -- on how six members of his family were \"killed by the Nazis\" during the Holocaust -- \"killed by the Nazis\" being about the only information he started with. This is so much more than a detective story. It's an Odyssey. Mendelsohn is a classicist by profession, and his storytelling is a loving adaption (adoption?) of Homer. But it's als This is one of the most excruciatingly haunting books I've ever read. It is marvelously told, the story of Daniel Mendelsohn searching for details -- specifics! -- on how six members of his family were \"killed by the Nazis\" during the Holocaust -- \"killed by the Nazis\" being about the only information he started with. This is so much more than a detective story. It's an Odyssey. Mendelsohn is a classicist by profession, and his storytelling is a loving adaption (adoption?) of Homer. But it's also more than that. There are stories within stories within stories, twists and turns, seemingly endless tales and endless sentences, and toward the end, a page turner that delivers a final knockout punch. One of those stories is the one about the grandfather he loves, whose story telling style Mendelsohn replicates in the structure of the book. It took me a long time to click into the story because the first part winds and winds and doesn't seem to make much progress. But somewhere in the second half, things pick up, and it becomes clear why the set-up was as long-winded as it was. Did I say there is a parallel, Biblical story line embedded within the detective Odyssey? Without giving too much away, the moral questions in the Biblical sections dovetail with the moral questions that come up -- some of which are too unbearable even to mention so Mendelsohn doesn't, but they are there nonetheless -- in thinking about who did what to whom and why during the Holocaust. A very large theme is what family members do to one another, and considering that some of it is every bit terrible on a small scale as genocide is on a large scale, what is the meaning of family anyway? There also is a subtext about Mendelsohn himself and a long suppressed childhood event that seems to have launched him on his quest to always look back. I had this book on my shelf also for family reasons. My maternal grandmother was from the same part of the world -- Gallicia -- that the people Mendelsohn was searching lived and died. This is most likely the reason my aunt picked up this book and recommended it to me. So this tale is close to home in a distant kind of way. In any event, this is well worth the time and perseverance it may take to wind through the briars to get to the promised land. ...more Just arrived from France through BM. What happened to Shmiel J\u00e4ger, his wife Ester and their four beautiful girls? Emigrants to their relatives in America, they died at the beginning of the occupation of Galicia by the Germans denounced by their good Polish. Born in 1960, Daniel Mendelsohn, nephew of Shmiel has always doubted the official version, and from his childhood, began searching for the truth. This book is both the result 'of a life of inquiry, and the story of the investigation itself. Th Just arrived from France through BM. What happened to Shmiel J\u00e4ger, his wife Ester and their four beautiful girls? Emigrants to their relatives in America, they died at the beginning of the occupation of Galicia by the Germans denounced by their good Polish. Born in 1960, Daniel Mendelsohn, nephew of Shmiel has always doubted the official version, and from his childhood, began searching for the truth. This book is both the result 'of a life of inquiry, and the story of the investigation itself. This is not an easy reading since the author makes uses of long paragraphs. His prose also reminds Proust's in \"\u00c0 la recherch\u00e9 du temps perdu.\" A huge research work was mande by the author, no doubt about it. ...more rigoroso. exigente.doloroso. meigo. \u00e0s vezes desgastante. An American Jew's attempt to find out via research exactly what happened to six family members who were killed in the Holocaust. Even for a Holocaust narrative, this is a particularly brutal story. It's not about the banality of evil or about people rationalizing genocide because they are only signing a paper rather than looking someone in the eye and killing them with their own hands. It's about ordinary people given permission to personally commit horrific acts of violence against people they'v An American Jew's attempt to find out via research exactly what happened to six family members who were killed in the Holocaust. Even for a Holocaust narrative, this is a particularly brutal story. It's not about the banality of evil or about people rationalizing genocide because they are only signing a paper rather than looking someone in the eye and killing them with their own hands. It's about ordinary people given permission to personally commit horrific acts of violence against people they've known all their lives, including children, and seizing the opportunity. I'm not going to repeat any graphic details, but... (view spoiler) [ The Nazis came to the Ukrainian village where Mendelsohn's family lived, and, often with the active and gleeful assistance of non-Jewish villagers, proceeded to subject the Jews, including little children, to prolonged, sadistic, and horrific torture for days on end before they murdered them. I've read a lot of Holocaust narratives, but the details in this one were especially stomach-turning. Especially because one of the relatives Mendelsohn was researching was a twelve-year-old girl whom everyone said was immature for her age. There were a couple things in here that I'm sorry I ever heard about, and I've heard a lot. Even for a Holocaust narrative, this is an incredibly depressing story. I guess I find it comparatively easier to swallow that completely ordinary people whom I've known all my life might turn me over to third parties be killed to save their own skins or for profit, than that they might personally and happily torture me to death, given permission and opportunity. (hide spoiler) ] I know I keep saying \"even for a Holocaust narrative...\" but even for a Holocaust narrative, this will make you despair for humanity. That's even given that two women did hide some of the family, until they were all ratted out and murdered. I was less impressed with the book's much-lauded literary quality. The prose is sometimes excellent but sometimes dry and overly elaborate. Mendelsohn got in the way of the story more than he illuminated it, and his endless Torah analyses and recounting of exactly how he searched the internet for clues and wandered around looking for people to interview drove me batty. I suspect what people found really striking about the book was the near-total lack of uplift. ...more This combination memoir and report describes the author's attempt to discover what happened to his great-uncle and -aunt and their four daughters, who died in Poland in the Holocaust, and about whom very little was known (or at least spoken, until those who knew had died and it was too late to ask). Mendelsohn writes in a kind of Russian-dolls style, with narratives buried within narratives buried within other narratives, allowing his associations to carry him to one place and another. This is n This combination memoir and report describes the author's attempt to discover what happened to his great-uncle and -aunt and their four daughters, who died in Poland in the Holocaust, and about whom very little was known (or at least spoken, until those who knew had died and it was too late to ask). Mendelsohn writes in a kind of Russian-dolls style, with narratives buried within narratives buried within other narratives, allowing his associations to carry him to one place and another. This is not a lax style, however, but consciously employed and rigorously managed. Mendelsohn is a very careful writer, and a lovely one. This could have been an absorbing journalistic report, but it is far more than that; it is an exercise in moral inquiry. Mendelsohn is always questioning his own reactions to other people and the past, examining the possible distortions in his relatives' tales, remaining on the alert for sentimentality, narcissism, and dishonesty (his own and that of others). At the end, the book opens up into a meditation on time and loss that is truly beautiful and tragic. For me, the greatest achievement of The Lost is to make those who were murdered feel utterly singular and real, in a way that even many other powerful works, read from childhood (think Anne Frank) through adulthood, have not. This is one of the strongest books I've read in the past few years. ...more Reading this book was an utterly absorbing experience for me, and I recommend it highly. It's engrossing and personal and kept me fully engaged for several weeks. The narrative alone would be enough to make a good book; how the author used a few scant facts & clues from family stories plus a lot of careful investigation, to reconstruct the final days and months of his great-uncle and family in a then-Polish village. The father, a butcher, his four daughters and wife all were \"lost\" in the Ho Reading this book was an utterly absorbing experience for me, and I recommend it highly. It's engrossing and personal and kept me fully engaged for several weeks. The narrative alone would be enough to make a good book; how the author used a few scant facts & clues from family stories plus a lot of careful investigation, to reconstruct the final days and months of his great-uncle and family in a then-Polish village. The father, a butcher, his four daughters and wife all were \"lost\" in the Holocaust, but this book brings them back to life, as the author figures out what happened to each of them. This book offers more than a simple, dramatic story because the author embeds the account with a gentle, philosophical approach, while perceptively describing his own experiences (family dynamics, visits to the village, interviews with elderly Jewish people in Australia & Denmark, etc.) during the search. Focusing on one family makes the Holocaust seem personal and possible, rather than remote, monolithic and unimaginable. I loved how the many small details extracted from fading memories, compiled together with historical research, made these lives and deaths feel real. The writing is personal and anecdotal, casual and rambling, and deeply felt. So in the end this book is a memoir, a history, and a drama all rolled into one. ...more This is a compelling book. Mendelsohn keeps the focus on the search as opposed to disgressing to talk about himself as many writer in similar books do. Mendelsohn also does not talk down to the reader. At first, I was put off a little by the sections that dealt with commentary about The Torah . I felt, at first, that it got in the way of the story. Then I realized how cleverly Mendelsohn was tying it into the story, and sometimes it provided much needed relief from some of the horror. Mendelsohn This is a compelling book. Mendelsohn keeps the focus on the search as opposed to disgressing to talk about himself as many writer in similar books do. Mendelsohn also does not talk down to the reader. At first, I was put off a little by the sections that dealt with commentary about The Torah . I felt, at first, that it got in the way of the story. Then I realized how cleverly Mendelsohn was tying it into the story, and sometimes it provided much needed relief from some of the horror. Mendelsohn also has some very thoughtful commentary on viewing history. Be warned, Mendelsohn does tend to write very long sentences that take some getting use to. ...more Everything a great nonfiction book should be: engaging, smart, beautifully written and deeply meaningful. I would have given this 5 stars if only the author had used quotation marks! Did the author think he's above quote marks, or did his editors talk him into this fiasco because it\u2019s the latest \"cool\" trend? This stupid trend leads to complete reader confusion. The author is searching for information about his six relatives who were killed in the Holocaust. He travels to Poland, Australia, and Sweden to interview elderly Holocaust survivors. It\u2019s utterly engrossing\u2026until he begins relating the inter I would have given this 5 stars if only the author had used quotation marks! Did the author think he's above quote marks, or did his editors talk him into this fiasco because it\u2019s the latest \"cool\" trend? This stupid trend leads to complete reader confusion. The author is searching for information about his six relatives who were killed in the Holocaust. He travels to Poland, Australia, and Sweden to interview elderly Holocaust survivors. It\u2019s utterly engrossing\u2026until he begins relating the interviews he conducted. Did he say that aloud? No, wait, that was in his head. Did he actually say the next thing? Oops, no, he\u2019s providing background information. Aaargh, I\u2019m completely out of the story now! I\u2019ve lost my way in the book! Here are two examples from the book: 1. But what were people expecting from the Germans? I asked. How much did they know at that point? My brain absorbs \u201cBut what were people expecting from the Germans\u201d before realizing that he spoke it aloud; I don\u2019t find that out until the end of the sentence. So what I thought he said in his head, I have to reconfigure and picture him saying out loud. But what about the next sentence? That could go either way. Did he ask that aloud too? We don\u2019t know. 2. Klara said, I do not know much about him, just that he wanted to save her. And he died because of it. So why doesn\u2019t she want to talk about it? She paused for a moment, and then said, Meg is very careful with every word. My first pass through, I thought the author was asking in his head, about Klara, Why doesn\u2019t she want to talk about it? My second pass through, I thought the author said this out loud to Klara, about Meg. Finally, I realized Klara actually said that out loud to the author. But did she also say, \u201cShe paused for a moment,\u201d speaking of Meg? No, wait, that\u2019s the author saying that Klara paused. What is the point of this?? If you spend years researching and writing and spending money completing a book, and then undergo the extreme stress of finding a publisher and dealing with the publishing process, wouldn\u2019t you want the finished product to be as clear and problem-free as possible? Don\u2019t you want people to understand your book as easily as possible? Stop the nonsense! Replace the quote marks! ...more This was a truly remarkable story of a search undertaken to find out about the lives of six family members killed during the Holocaust. It was an exhaustive search taking the author into Poland, Israel, Denmark, and Sweden trying to piece together what constituted his family and who really were these cousins and aunt and uncle of his. It was reverting on many levels and gave the reader the insight into how the Nazis not only killed these people but took away their identities. It was as if they n This was a truly remarkable story of a search undertaken to find out about the lives of six family members killed during the Holocaust. It was an exhaustive search taking the author into Poland, Israel, Denmark, and Sweden trying to piece together what constituted his family and who really were these cousins and aunt and uncle of his. It was reverting on many levels and gave the reader the insight into how the Nazis not only killed these people but took away their identities. It was as if they never existed, never walked this earth, or never were even born. It was ever so sad to think of how they were able to take out a full town's Jewish occupants plus any who dared to intervene on their behalf. The ultimate horror of their callousness and depravity still shocks those who read of these atrocities. We as we grow older, we often look back on our ancestors and think of who they were, where they came from, and how they lived their lives. For the families of those butchered in the Holocaust, those memories of family members were obliterated by the wanton killings that ensued under the Nazi doctrine of the final solution. Whole families were wiped out never to bear their name in the future, nor contribute to a world where they might have become the future leaders we so desperately need now. It is always ultimately horrifying and totally sad to read of the atrocities carried out so easily on a race and the people who knew that this was wrong. It is not an easy book to read and one since I am not Jewish, I probably missed a lot of the references to Jewish tradition and the books of the Old Testament. I am always grateful for a novel that makes me think and certainly this one is one where your thoughts circle within yourself. We like to think that this would \"never again\" happen but history and the present show us it does and will continue to occur as long as man sees himself better than other men. ...more I enjoyed this book. Not so much in that it was a pleasure to read (it was slow, long winded and all around a little tough to finish), but more because it really made me question our past and the accuracy of those stories we've heard and held as true. I did not read this book for the Holocaust aspect - I think the underlying message is universal. Mendelsohn was a little obsessive about trying to find information, but his story made me remember how easy it is to forget an entire life (and how easy I enjoyed this book. Not so much in that it was a pleasure to read (it was slow, long winded and all around a little tough to finish), but more because it really made me question our past and the accuracy of those stories we've heard and held as true. I did not read this book for the Holocaust aspect - I think the underlying message is universal. Mendelsohn was a little obsessive about trying to find information, but his story made me remember how easy it is to forget an entire life (and how easy it is to be forgotten). I once heard someone say that they defined themselves through what others knew of them, and it took reading this book for me to understand how that made sense. ...more The idea of the book is deeply touching: to give a posthumous life to a few among the millions who perished in the Holocaust. The book, however, struck me as too long and too drawn out and the Biblical references as unnecessary. The strength of this book is to make us stop considering the death of a butcher and his family in a small village in Poland as irrelevant in the great scheme of things, because it does matter. In fact, it is the very sad and gripping \"banality\" of the story that makes us The idea of the book is deeply touching: to give a posthumous life to a few among the millions who perished in the Holocaust. The book, however, struck me as too long and too drawn out and the Biblical references as unnecessary. The strength of this book is to make us stop considering the death of a butcher and his family in a small village in Poland as irrelevant in the great scheme of things, because it does matter. In fact, it is the very sad and gripping \"banality\" of the story that makes us stop and think. ...more This is one of the most excruciatingly haunting books I've ever read. It is marvelously told, the story of Daniel Mendelsohn searching for details -- specifics! -- on how six members of his family were \"killed by the Nazis\" during the Holocaust -- \"killed by the Nazis\" being about the only information he started with. This is so much more than a detective story. It's an Odyssey. Mendelsohn is a classicist by profession, and his storytelling is a loving adaption (adoption?) of Homer. But it's als This is one of the most excruciatingly haunting books I've ever read. It is marvelously told, the story of Daniel Mendelsohn searching for details -- specifics! -- on how six members of his family were \"killed by the Nazis\" during the Holocaust -- \"killed by the Nazis\" being about the only information he started with. This is so much more than a detective story. It's an Odyssey. Mendelsohn is a classicist by profession, and his storytelling is a loving adaption (adoption?) of Homer. But it's also more than that. There are stories within stories within stories, twists and turns, seemingly endless tales and endless sentences, and toward the end, a page turner that delivers a final knockout punch. One of those stories is the one about the grandfather he loves, whose story telling style Mendelsohn replicates in the structure of the book. It took me a long time to click into the story because the first part winds and winds and doesn't seem to make much progress. But somewhere in the second half, things pick up, and it becomes clear why the set-up was as long-winded as it was. Did I say there is a parallel, Biblical story line embedded within the detective Odyssey? Without giving too much away, the moral questions in the Biblical sections dovetail with the moral questions that come up -- some of which are too unbearable even to mention so Mendelsohn doesn't, but they are there nonetheless -- in thinking about who did what to whom and why during the Holocaust. A very large theme is what family members do to one another, and considering that some of it is every bit terrible on a small scale as genocide is on a large scale, what is the meaning of family anyway? There also is a subtext about Mendelsohn himself and a long suppressed childhood event that seems to have launched him on his quest to always look back. ...more This is a long read. But, more than that, it is a long-winded read. There are whole pages describing verses from the Torah, which I found generally distracting and not additive to the story whatsoever. I found them especially strange as the author described himself as not a very religious Jew, who had only learnt enough to get thru his Bar Mitzvah. (about half way thru I realised I could just skim past these) It is also a very meandering story, which is the style of story that the author regularl This is a long read. But, more than that, it is a long-winded read. There are whole pages describing verses from the Torah, which I found generally distracting and not additive to the story whatsoever. I found them especially strange as the author described himself as not a very religious Jew, who had only learnt enough to get thru his Bar Mitzvah. (about half way thru I realised I could just skim past these) It is also a very meandering story, which is the style of story that the author regularly reminds you that he likes. (view spoiler) [It is an interesting story since he does eventually find some answers in his search. But I can't help but wonder what would have become of his story, of his many years of research and travel focused on the specific topic of these 6 people, if he had never reached the final triumph that he did. I doubt it wouldn't made for such an interesting book! (hide spoiler) ] None the less, it is still fascinating for the visits and conversations with the survivors and so lucky that he had the opportunity to meet and speak with them. ...more I listened to the Audible version of this book (why can I not find that version on Goodreads?). Wow. Bravo Daniel Mendelsohn, and bravo Bronson Pinchot. Perhaps the best Audible performance I have ever heard. I loved this book. While it is a long read/listen, I was mesmerized by Mendelsohn's journey in search of the stories of his family. My husband and I have been dabbling in genealogy and a few years ago we too traveled to Eastern Europe (Southern Czech Republic & Wroclov, Poland) to find I listened to the Audible version of this book (why can I not find that version on Goodreads?). Wow. Bravo Daniel Mendelsohn, and bravo Bronson Pinchot. Perhaps the best Audible performance I have ever heard. I loved this book. While it is a long read/listen, I was mesmerized by Mendelsohn's journey in search of the stories of his family. My husband and I have been dabbling in genealogy and a few years ago we too traveled to Eastern Europe (Southern Czech Republic & Wroclov, Poland) to find the homes of my husband's ancestors. We too experienced those powerful moments as you roll into a town where your ancestors live, feeling like quite the spectacle to the residents there, yet feeling the intense connection with people and place. Mendelsohn writes in a somewhat non-linear fashion with powerful tangents that can take you away from the story, but lead you to a deeper understanding of the experience. (He does this expertly with the parallels of biblical story and exegesis and his own story). By the way, Bronson Pinchot, handled these amazingly in his performance. That said, I felt at times that I wished I have the book version to double back to the original story when the tangents took me away. In the end this book was more about the survivors than those who were lost. More about Mendelsohn's journey than those of his ancestors. More about the power of story and making meaning of the events, joys, even horrors, of our lives. ...more From Bereishit to Vayeira, Mendelshohn weaves together Torah study, the Holocaust, a town in the Ukraine, the stories of the 48 surviving Jews of the 6,000 who lived in that town before the war, a history of a family who were among those 6,000 Jews and his personal history in a quest for understanding the human experience of suffering. The structure and the storytelling are brilliant, although the details are occasionally tedious. I was reminded of reading Bible passages of rules or lists of nam From Bereishit to Vayeira, Mendelshohn weaves together Torah study, the Holocaust, a town in the Ukraine, the stories of the 48 surviving Jews of the 6,000 who lived in that town before the war, a history of a family who were among those 6,000 Jews and his personal history in a quest for understanding the human experience of suffering. The structure and the storytelling are brilliant, although the details are occasionally tedious. I was reminded of reading Bible passages of rules or lists of names, just skimming through until I could get to a good part. And the good parts in The Lost included phrases that stopped me with their beauty and an intellect that was invigorating. I could only wish that Mendelsohn didn't cease his Torah study with Vayeira and have such a keen focus on the past. Only on page 472 does he make one reference to his children---in a book that has family relationships as a central theme. I would be eager for his insight on how to live a holy life, the essence of the next section in the Torah; the essence of the role of a parent. This book requires patience and some judicious skimming, but is one that will linger with you. Mendelshohn gives a commentary on the story of Lots wife, about how if we continue to look back on suffering, on loss, we can be consumed with it, our tears of salt immobilizing. Here is a poem by Merle Feld that could be a commentary of The Lost: Lotswife I am the no-name mother of four no-name daughters. The young ones, the virgins, escaped with us. But my first born, and the second-the tall slim one with the long auburn hair- they were left behind. He spoke to their husbands, said we must go, said, run away with us now. But those two were rough types, they scoffed and turned their backs. My girls- my first born and the tall slim one with the long auburn hair- No one ever spoke to them at all. And then it was time to go. He said Now Now we must go and I ran after him, after him as I always had. The heat was so intense it licked at my heels it burned my back the heat was so intense. I ran to keep up with him at his heels I ran as I always had and then the tears they flowed and burned until finally it wasn't a decision to stop, to turn it's that I couldn't see him anymore, blinded as I was by my tears, my burning tears. And now it is my fate for all time to appear in the story, a bit player, the scene after Abraham, that famous scene where he argues with God, talks with God, enjoys the ear of God. I come after that famous scene blinded by my tears, my pain, looking back, because I am a mother and a mother can't look away, even when God commands it. So I'm there in the story, after eloquent Abraham, without a name, without my daughters turning into a tear into a pillar of salt. ...more Non Fiction/History An emotional read Mr. Mendelsohn is a natural born storyteller, born into and nurtured by a family of storytellers, especially the grandfather he held so dear. His tale begins as a wistful coming of age story, filled with warm remembrances of family long gone, but this narrative slowly and inexorably turns into a tale of soul-wrenching horror. This is not a dry, emotionless tome, reciting facts on a long ago event. Mendelsohn brings these six lost family members to life so vivi Non Fiction/History An emotional read Mr. Mendelsohn is a natural born storyteller, born into and nurtured by a family of storytellers, especially the grandfather he held so dear. His tale begins as a wistful coming of age story, filled with warm remembrances of family long gone, but this narrative slowly and inexorably turns into a tale of soul-wrenching horror. This is not a dry, emotionless tome, reciting facts on a long ago event. Mendelsohn brings these six lost family members to life so vividly that I am mourning their loss as if they were my own. That was the first thing I noticed about this remarkable story, how quickly I came to know the Mendelsohn/Jaeger family, even extended family is imbued with such character that I could easily remember who was who, with a smile on my face no less. And how true, his astute assertion that as time goes by, we are reduced to a single characterization, the complexities of our nature, our relationships reduced to \"She died three weeks before her wedding\" or \"He really loved her.\" Mendelsohn's writing has an arresting authenticity, so that I felt I was right there beside him on his journey. Little things, like the miracle of finally tracking down someone who was there, someone who would know, and not being able to think of a single question to ask. Or that keening pain that hits you so unexpectedly when a cousin unknowingly imitates a beloved grandparent, gone more than forty years. And the underlying shame, \"Why didn't I ask these questions when I was young, when that generation was still alive? Why didn't I care then?\" This was my first look at the plight of the Jews of Eastern Europe, and there were many things I hadn't known. Things that stunned and sickened me. Things I will not forget. But Mendelsohn's unwavering committment to focusing on who these six had been, who they really were, lent a dignity and sense of justice to this accounting that carried through the suffering they endured and the horror of their deaths, their liquidation. I highly recommend this book, with one caveat. Mendelsohn takes his time in telling the story, slowly revealing stories within stories, layers upon layers, until finally arriving at that piercing final note, a note that resonates deep within my heart. He even interweaves a surreal juxtaposition of the book of Genesis from the Bible. I absolutely love this kind of storytelling, the kind that gently works in a roundabout way, never taking a straight path. But I recognize there will be some who lose patience with it. Bottom line, this is an important book, but it is also a story that will take your heart captive and not let go for a long, long time. ...more<---C>Daniel Mendelsohn</---C>", "Title": "The Lost: A Search for Six of Six Million"},
