{"Comments": "I just happened to find this book while browsing around looking for free ebooks and it captivated me from the very beginning. I'm not sure I can say this book is about any one thing because it's about so much in general. Life, hardship, depression, friendship,<---M> social issues</---M>, self-identity, and that doesn't even begin to scratch the surface. I think the best thing about the book is how each chapter is about something different, so you are never stuck in the same place reading on and on until you f I just happened to find this book while browsing around looking for free ebooks and it captivated me from the very beginning. I'm not sure I can say this book is about any one thing because it's about so much in general. Life, hardship, depression, friendship, social issues, self-identity, and that doesn't even begin to scratch the surface. I think the best thing about the book is how each chapter is about something different, so you are never stuck in the same place reading on and on until you find you are actually skimming. It's constantly fresh and never seems to drag on. So all in all, this book I think is best for the people who like to think about life and don't mind a challenge from time to time.<---F> Thanks for reading</---F>. ...more This book came highly recommened to me by a close friend. I started reading it the following day and realized soon on that the book has a sort of learning curve. It is not conventional by any means, is what I mean. There are a bunch of themes, but for this review I only want to talk about one: the human condition. Wikipedia: \"The human condition encompasses the unique features of being human, particularly the ultimate concerns of human existence. It can be described as the unalterable part of hu This book came highly recommened to me by a close friend. I started reading it the following day and realized soon on that the book has a sort of learning curve. It is not conventional by any means, is what I mean. There are a bunch of themes, but for this review I only want to talk about one: the human condition. Wikipedia: \"The human condition encompasses the unique features of being human, particularly the ultimate concerns of human existence. It can be described as the unalterable part of humanity that is inherent and innate to human beings and not dependent on factors such as gender, race, culture, or class. It includes concerns such as the meaning of life, the search for gratification, the sense of curiosity, the inevitability of isolation, the awareness of the inescapability of death and the capacity of humans to be good as well as evil and whether or not this makes us worthwhile beings. In essence, the human condition is the self-aware, and reflective nature of Homo sapiens that allows for analysis of existential themes.\" The human condition is literally found in one way or another in every chapter of this book, and that is really what makes it so enticing. You can find these struggles in the characters, in the stories, and best of all, in the ideas. The reason why it works so well is because noone can escape from the human condition, it's all around us and in every waking moment of our life. It's hard to stop thinking about the book even after you've finished it because you start to see it everywhere. You see it in your family, your friends, yourself. You see it on the news and you hear about it on the radio. You have to truly then ask yourself what it means to be a human in this world. What it means to be alive in the here and now. This will be a book that stays with me for a very long time and I'm sure I'll have to go back and reread it multiple times to gain a better understanding of it. ...more I'm 43, (<---B>which I think is pretty old all things considered</---B>) but there was were times while reading this novel that I felt young again. I don't mean young in the literal sense, I mean young more in the sense that I was filled with wonder (like a child figuring out things for the first time). At night, some of us gaze at the dark sky and wonder what is beyond what we can see and what we can comprehend as human beings. Things like God and Satan, if there is life elsewhere. This was one of those many I'm 43, (which I think is pretty old all things considered) but there was were times while reading this novel that I felt young again. I don't mean young in the literal sense, I mean young more in the sense that I was filled with wonder (like a child figuring out things for the first time). At night, some of us gaze at the dark sky and wonder what is beyond what we can see and what we can comprehend as human beings. Things like God and Satan, if there is life elsewhere. This was one of those many sentences that really resonated with me and struck a cord. The entire book got me thinking about all of the stuff I've never thought about in my 43 years of living, even about the simple things such as love and hate, but then again I guess those things aren't really that simple when you look into them deep enough. The other thing I love about it are the characters. No matter who you are you will find a person to relate to in the story. I would put money down on that. The most important thing I think this book does though, is the fact that it influences you to write. To sit down and create your own story, because \"everyone's a writer, and everyone has a story to tell.\" I tried writing when I was younger but could never finish anything I started. I've picked up the pen again and now all I need to do is find the time to write. ...more Unlike any book I have ever read. This book expanded my mind and perception on the world around us differently with every \"chapter\". <+++>Anthology Complex</+++> is filled with creative ideas, meanings and answers to questions I never knew I had until I read it. If you have a curious mind, this book is a must read! Started skimming and gave up. To me it was like listening to the ramblings of someone off their face. Thanks but I don't want to read about every dream you've had. This book definitely stands apart from any book I have ever read. It is incredibly thought provoking and interesting. In some instances I definitely could relate to the character and in others not at all. However, I enjoyed the narrator's frank honesty about their thoughts and feelings. Overall, nothing really happens story wise but so much happens at the same time. It leaves you feeling disconnected from the world but, at the same time, connected to the character. Very interesting read. Absolutely amazing read, especially if you have an interest in dream psychology or the philosophy behind human morality. Being relatively introverted and misanthropic myself made it easy to connect with the thoughts and ideas that are presented, so I think it may be difficult for some to comprehend on an emotional level, but I could be wrong. It's written in a stream of consciousness style so some times it can be hard to differentiate between dreams and reality, but it's all amazing and beautifu Absolutely amazing read, especially if you have an interest in dream psychology or the philosophy behind human morality. Being relatively introverted and misanthropic myself made it easy to connect with the thoughts and ideas that are presented, so I think it may be difficult for some to comprehend on an emotional level, but I could be wrong. It's written in a stream of consciousness style so some times it can be hard to differentiate between dreams and reality, but it's all amazing and beautiful and thought provoking. Highly recommended. P.S. I'm not sure if this is a spoiler or not, but throughout the book the is a smattering of references to Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon album. Large sections of the novel resemble the album with themes of death, greed, sanity, and the passage of time, so you can see where the author may have gotten some of his inspiration. This is always very subtle, aside from maybe the last line, so it doesn't interfere with the narrative, but if you're a Floyd fan you may get some extra enjoyment out of this. ...more I come from a small town where literature, I think, doesn't receive the respect it deserves. After reading and re-reading <+++>Anthology Complex</+++>, I think I too hadn't quite realized the full potential of the written word, but I'm slowly learning about what it can do. One of the more unique things about Anthology complex and the thing I found most attractive about it was the fact that there are no villains or heroes. In retrospect, I see now that the only villains in the book are of the abstract nature I come from a small town where literature, I think, doesn't receive the respect it deserves. After reading and re-reading Anthology Complex, I think I too hadn't quite realized the full potential of the written word, but I'm slowly learning about what it can do. One of the more unique things about Anthology complex and the thing I found most attractive about it was the fact that there are no villains or heroes. In retrospect, I see now that the only villains in the book are of the abstract nature (violence, apathy, misconception, addiction, mental illness, oppression, isolation, anti-social behavior, etc). Sometimes these things are personified, but most of the time they are used as subtle ideas. Like others have said, Anthology Complex is something new, something different from other novels, and I hope its lack of disregard for protocol doesn't hinder what it might become. P.S. - Does anyone know if there is a sequel? ...more The ending of this book leaves much to desire and because of that the experience is sort of ruined. However, it was a serious page turner. I found myself bookmarking every other page, as the thoughts of the narrator on life invited me to ponder my own philosophies. It's a great group discussion book. This book started out so strong. I immediately fell in love with it. However, I quickly tired of reading things that didn't make sense. It stopped being thought provoking around 1/4 of the way in. It had so much potential. Filled with thought-provoking ideas and a unique structure. Recommended to anyone who has ever wondered about how our world works. \u5982\u679c\u8fd9\u662f\u4f5c\u8005\u7684\u4eb2\u8eab\u7ecf\u5386\uff0c\u90a3\u8fd9\u4e2a\u5ba2\u89c2\u5b58\u5728\u7684\u4e3b\u4eba\u8be5\u662f\u6709\u591a\u4e48\u8ff7\u4eba\u554a\u3002\u4e5f\u8bb8\uff0c\u8fd9\u6837\u7684\u4eba\u5927\u6982\u662f\u4e0d\u5584\u4e0e\u8fd9\u4e2a\u793e\u4f1a\u505a\u8fc7\u591a\u80a4\u6d45\u7684\u4ea4\u6d41\uff0c\u88ab\u5468\u906d\u7684\u4e86\u89e3\u548c\u53d1\u73b0\u4ed6\u4eec\u7684\u8ff7\u4eba\u4e4b\u5904\u7684\u4eba\u6050\u6015\u662f\u5fae\u4e4e\u5176\u5fae\u3002I love this book. :) Definitely thought provoking. Just finished the book and am lost for words.. Dam. Great read. In short, entertaining and mind opening. Let me just start off by saying that this book may not be for everyone, but it SHOULD be for everyone. What I mean is that this book is mainly for thinkers, or people who like to question their own lives. If you want to continue on in blissful happy ignorance, I commend you. I wish I could do the same. This book is definitely not happy go lucky, so this book is not for you, or will simply not interest you. But for people who feel unsattisfied by life or \"dreamers\" if you will (if you read the boo Let me just start off by saying that this book may not be for everyone, but it SHOULD be for everyone. What I mean is that this book is mainly for thinkers, or people who like to question their own lives. If you want to continue on in blissful happy ignorance, I commend you. I wish I could do the same. This book is definitely not happy go lucky, so this book is not for you, or will simply not interest you. But for people who feel unsattisfied by life or \"dreamers\" if you will (if you read the book you will get my cheesy pun), this book is a diamond in the rough. I love to read all different sorts of books, everything from literature to YA. Mostly what interests me is the human condition (so to say), and the thoughts which we tend to shy away from. This book may not be \"literary\" in the sense that there is some greater plotline or story/metaphor being told; but there is something so raw and distinctly true that makes this book so unique and special. In all honesty this may be one of my favorite books that I have ever read. I highly recommend it. ...more 2/5? The high ratings had me going gaga so when I started it I naturally thought it would go better than it did. This book gave me a headache each time I picked it up to be honest! The whole thing is one big fat monologue! Maybe i'm in need of a perspective different from the one I have or maybe I need to 'grow up' intellectually to thoroughly understand what the protagonist was trying to convey. Either way it kind of sucked. On the bright side I did learn some stuff, gained an insight into how 2/5? The high ratings had me going gaga so when I started it I naturally thought it would go better than it did. This book gave me a headache each time I picked it up to be honest! The whole thing is one big fat monologue! Maybe i'm in need of a perspective different from the one I have or maybe I need to 'grow up' intellectually to thoroughly understand what the protagonist was trying to convey. Either way it kind of sucked. On the bright side I did learn some stuff, gained an insight into how we can perceive life differently and some of the ramblings of the insane madman of a protagonist actually did make sense! You did not think I gave it 2/5 for nothing did ya? xP Whether you decide to read it or not is upto you. I would not stop you from reading it nor would I insist that you do. This is where the concept of #FreeWill comes into picture I reckon(One of the many trivial-but-apparently-not-so-trivial-to-some things I came to know from this book). ...more Anthology Complex fires on all cylinders: speaks of the serious, the gross, the dreamy, the terrible, the hilarious. And it's all in a complicated, salad bowl sort of presentation that leaves the reader just off the ground the entire time; otherwise known as, enchanted. The ending is emotionally resounding as any religious icon. If you approach this book with the right mindset and proceed through it accordingly, it is as rewarding a literary experience as possible. I've never had to re-read (and Anthology Complex fires on all cylinders: speaks of the serious, the gross, the dreamy, the terrible, the hilarious. And it's all in a complicated, salad bowl sort of presentation that leaves the reader just off the ground the entire time; otherwise known as, enchanted. The ending is emotionally resounding as any religious icon. If you approach this book with the right mindset and proceed through it accordingly, it is as rewarding a literary experience as possible. I've never had to re-read (and sometimes re-re-re-re-re-re-read) passages of a book like this before. But for the patient and methodical reader, the extra time it takes to comprehend what's going on makes the experience worthwhile. I cannot more strongly endorse reading this, both for the enjoyment of reading it as well as for the sense of accomplishment by finishing it. ...more This book changed my life. Period. It seeps into one's subconscious and begins to have the reader identify with the character, care about the character, and wonder about the absurdity of the trials and ridiculous nature of humans. The thoughts captured in this narration are eternal, they are not bound by space and time. The mind, when captured by the simple description of Julien, without delving into psychology and philosophy, gives a reader an adequate opportunity to build an opinion for himself This book changed my life. Period. It seeps into one's subconscious and begins to have the reader identify with the character, care about the character, and wonder about the absurdity of the trials and ridiculous nature of humans. The thoughts captured in this narration are eternal, they are not bound by space and time. The mind, when captured by the simple description of Julien, without delving into psychology and philosophy, gives a reader an adequate opportunity to build an opinion for himself. In short, this book is a spoon full of potion, which carries one to that corner of human mind, which perhaps one would never be able to experience even in imaginations, in his lifetime. Intriguing, engaging, page-turning, this book is a great read. ...more Maybe I'm odd, but I've never found this book depressing as many say it is. It is beautiful and sad, as existentialism is suppose to be. I find this book to be rather like a fairy tale, where the normal world is ever so slightly off what is normal. I would highly recommend reading this book, its good for your soul, I'm sure of it. As other people have stated, this is definitely a powerful book. I love books that really make you re-evaluate your life and what components define you, and this is one Maybe I'm odd, but I've never found this book depressing as many say it is. It is beautiful and sad, as existentialism is suppose to be. I find this book to be rather like a fairy tale, where the normal world is ever so slightly off what is normal. I would highly recommend reading this book, its good for your soul, I'm sure of it. As other people have stated, this is definitely a powerful book. I love books that really make you re-evaluate your life and what components define you, and this is one of them. As desolate as this sounds, the existentialist pattern of this book entices you to realize how trivial we are in the great scheme of things. ...more Dreams it's all about dreams, or is it? I don't expect much from free stuff, like this book which was a free ebook, but to my surprise this was truly wonderful. If you have so many questions about life, and wonder who we are and stuffs like that. This book will keep you entertained. As I mentioned above \"Dreams\". I love to dream whether it's day or night. And finding the hidden meaning behind them is quite intriguing. The books takes you on a mindfulness journey on it own. Where the author took the Dreams it's all about dreams, or is it? I don't expect much from free stuff, like this book which was a free ebook, but to my surprise this was truly wonderful. If you have so many questions about life, and wonder who we are and stuffs like that. This book will keep you entertained. As I mentioned above \"Dreams\". I love to dream whether it's day or night. And finding the hidden meaning behind them is quite intriguing. The books takes you on a mindfulness journey on it own. Where the author took the dreams parade to a whole new level. \"Dreams are the answer to question we don't know yet how to ask\" ...more Anthology Complex is a fascinating read. Packed with knowledge and wisdom. A collection of dreams and daily life. Intertwining when awake in a lucid dreaming. M.B Julien never shares his characters name but shares deep sometimes brutal thoughts of human nature, God, good and evil and life in general. His characters are pathetic and simple but real. The theme may very well be dream to wake up, to reality and humanity. Most people would not dare to go to the raw depth of his thoughts and emotional h Anthology Complex is a fascinating read. Packed with knowledge and wisdom. A collection of dreams and daily life. Intertwining when awake in a lucid dreaming. M.B Julien never shares his characters name but shares deep sometimes brutal thoughts of human nature, God, good and evil and life in general. His characters are pathetic and simple but real. The theme may very well be dream to wake up, to reality and humanity. Most people would not dare to go to the raw depth of his thoughts and emotional honesty. 5-out of 5 stars Thoroughly enjoyed this book. ...more This is writing. A haunting philosophical exploration, forcing the reader to question himself/herself in relation to the world and the people around him/her. I laughed and took a good hard look at myself in the mirror. This book will open up your mind to the whirling complexities of life that, for the most part, we miss by keeping our heads down, and our ears closed. This book feels more like a conversation more than anything else. A bit long-drawn here and there but the subjects will keep you reading to see how things progress. Great book. You should definitely read this one. It's taken me three times through to enjoy this book. The point of it is not to power through but to stop and smell the roses (pun intended). Read and re-read a dense paragraph. Take small bites. Good luck, literally and metaphorically. At first the novel seemed very introspective, addressing a number of themes. It gradually became more confusing as the author tried to develop a plotline based around his opinions/ideas about the human mind. Thus it was disjointed because the story came second to his opinions. It's a psychological build-up fiction, a man who's obsessed with writing down his dreams and trying to find out what do they really mean in the way of analysing human nature and its function. This book provokes your brain to think, if you like to think deeply then this book is made for you :) This is one of the strangest and most confusing books I have ever read. Within these odd, recorded interactions, we get a glimpse of this strange character (that it is hard not to become fond of). I really like how this was written, because you get to know the narrator, but still never get to know him at all This book was extremely good and I loved the concept but I have to take one star away for all the grammatical errors A bit slow, but for the most part the story is well paced, and the author brings you into new world with each dream.<---A>M.B. Julien</---A><---C>M.B. Julien</---C>", "Title": "Anthology Complex"},
