{"Comments": "<+++>The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club</+++> (<---B>yes,<---M> it's a mouthful</---M>, LOL</---B>) was funny, intriguing, and a little dark at times and I loved it! If you're a fan of Desperate Housewives, I think you will find this a great read as well! It's set in a kind of a ritzy suburban neighborhood where everyone is talking about everyone and no secret stays hidden for long. From the very beginning, <---A>Duncan Whitehead</---A>'s style of writing keeps you inches from all the untold truths and just when you are about to say \u201cOMG, I <+++>The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club</+++> (yes, it's a mouthful, LOL) was funny, intriguing, and a little dark at times and I loved it! If you're a fan of Desperate Housewives, I think you will find this a great read as well! It's set in a kind of a ritzy suburban neighborhood where everyone is talking about everyone and no secret stays hidden for long. From the very beginning, Duncan Whitehead's style of writing keeps you inches from all the untold truths and just when you are about to say \u201cOMG, I didn't see that coming\u201d, he lets out a titillating piece of story and then your left thinking, \u201cOMG, I didn't see THAT coming!\u201d Whitehead had my emotions in the grips of is hands the whole time! I found myself sympathizing with certain characters (Tom), wanting to beat certain characters to a pulp (Kelly), wanting to call some of them out (Elliot), and wanting to hide under the table and peak through the curtains while the crap hit the fan! Literally the whole time I was reading The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club, I was filling my husband in on what just happened next (and he usually isn't a fan of reading...I know right?) and he was laughing right along with me at what came next! Shock, Shock, Shock! That is what you experience throughout this book! On top of all this, you have a killer picking off residents of this beautiful on the outside, dysfunctional on the inside neighborhood and let me just say.....your jaw will be left hanging and you'll be scratching your head when the final and most shocking twist comes in the end! I am definitely anticipating the sequel to The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club because while the book ended with a bang, I can't wait to see what happens next! I would highly suggest The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club to all of my book loving friends! You will have a hard time putting it down, NOT laughing out loud, and you most certainly will not be disappointed! For more great and honest book reviews, please visit my blog @ www.book2buzz.blogspot.com ...more Not fair! Arrghhh! I want to know what happens next......I loved the characters in this book; some dumb, some evil, some nasty, some devious, some just plain crazy. Brilliant plot very cleverly done and what a surprise ending that left me shaking my head and wondering when there will be a part two...I WANT TO KNOW MORE MR WHITEHEAD! Please, please, please write a follow up to this fantastically different book and please kill off somebody else.<---F> This 20 chapter book was okay</---F>. Heidi, Cindy, and Carla were part of the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Cub. The other member, Thelma, had died from cancer; she hadn\u2019t even been buried that long before Cindy and Carla fight over Thelma\u2019s husband, Elliot. The neighborhood was like Wisteria Lane times ten. They had secrets galore and were crazy. It was awesome how psycho people became towards the end. My favorite part was when one of the younger neighbor\u2019s visited Paris without her husband. Once she This 20 chapter book was okay. Heidi, Cindy, and Carla were part of the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Cub. The other member, Thelma, had died from cancer; she hadn\u2019t even been buried that long before Cindy and Carla fight over Thelma\u2019s husband, Elliot. The neighborhood was like Wisteria Lane times ten. They had secrets galore and were crazy. It was awesome how psycho people became towards the end. My favorite part was when one of the younger neighbor\u2019s visited Paris without her husband. Once she returned home, everything unraveled in everyone\u2019s lives. When I say everyone, I mean every single character. The story didn\u2019t just focus on the three ladies of the club; it also involved their neighbors (two couples, two older gentleman). It was cool once it was revealed who the hitman and director was. And I loved knowing when a character was plotting on someone else without their knowledge\u2013it was like I was in on the secret. There were four hits requested throughout the novel but only one was picked. I liked how the ending suggested that the other ones still weren\u2019t safe. Like maybe there could be a sequel? The author was great with setting. The way he described things allowed me, as a reader, to see hear, taste, and smell what the characters did. The first chapter was impressive and suspenseful. A man dug up a hole and readers knew someone will die by the end of the book. But after that, there was a bunch of headhopping (unless it was written in the omniscient point-of-view? One time a dog\u2019s feelings was described), so I couldn\u2019t get lost in the story. It felt like I was reading about characters instead of getting a chance to go through their journey with them. It seemed like there was a lack of immediate scenes. The story had a lot of narrative summary, so I wished there would have been more showing rather than telling. The story started off slow, but towards the middle (and especially the ending), it picked up and was pretty interesting. I loved seeing the friendships and romantic relationships self-destruct. One other thing\u2013facts kept being repeated throughout the story. I wish things were only told once (especially backstory). For example, chapter 1 and chapter 18 were exactly the same, word for word. I figured it was to remind readers that a guy was there to kill someone and now the plan was about to spring into action, but readers already knew that since the first chapter. If you think you can get past the repetitiveness, then give the book a try. ...more The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club by Duncan Whitehead is one of the most fun and enjoyable books I\u2019ve read in a long time. If I had had the time to read it in one sitting, I would have. When I had to put it down, I found myself looking forward to picking it up again, anticipation for a special treat. The plot focuses on three well-heeled ladies who live in an exclusive neighborhood in Savannah, Georgia, and who regularly meet each afternoon in the neighborhood park for the purpose of letting The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club by Duncan Whitehead is one of the most fun and enjoyable books I\u2019ve read in a long time. If I had had the time to read it in one sitting, I would have. When I had to put it down, I found myself looking forward to picking it up again, anticipation for a special treat. The plot focuses on three well-heeled ladies who live in an exclusive neighborhood in Savannah, Georgia, and who regularly meet each afternoon in the neighborhood park for the purpose of letting their dogs play. In reality the ladies meet to sip their favorite cocktails concealed in plastic cups while they gossip about their neighbors. Duncan Whitehead has distilled the worst attributes associated with southerners into his characters so accurately that I found myself laughing out loud when so-called best friends became worst enemies while still maintaining total social decorum. I am not going to go into any of the plot because I do not want to reveal any of the twists and turns that make this novel so entertaining. Suffice it to say that if you like duplicitous, backstabbing, self-indulgent, prejudice, and cowardly people who outwardly attempt to appear perfectly kind and good to the world, you\u2019ll love this book. Mr. Whitehead\u2019s writing style is fluid and descriptive. His use of the third person omniscient point of view fits perfectly with his characters and their reactions to the people around them. I especially like his technique of establishing a scene and then revisiting it later after the reader has gleaned additional information about the characters. If you like mystery, murder, intrigue, and dogs, buy this book right now. It is a five star read. ...more The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club is a tour de force, a sort of Grand Guignol, Peyton Place on steroids with tongue firmly in cheek. My early impression was one of sprawling farce, but I soon came to realize this was an intricate, tightly plotted work without spare parts. The result is highly entertaining, and I recommend this book without reservation. Twisty turny with great appeal. Sexy, sassy and sinister all cloaked under the auspices of an innocent dog walking club. Loved this fast paced tale ( tail?!) and it is a quick read. The intersections of characters lives is exquisite. Loved this book!! It took me awhile to get into the book, but that's probably my own problem as I like action...and lots of it! But OMG! Stick with it and that book ROCKS! I hope there is a another book. Great job, Duncan! If you're a fan of shows like Desperate Housewives that sway between the farcical and the semi-serious, with a lot of humorous coincidence thrown in, then this one's for you. The Southern lady dogwalkers of Gordonston are a gossipy bunch of drinkers with a little too much time on their hands. Their business is knowing, or imagining, everyone else's business in the small, privileged enclave where they live. Of course, the line they tread between consideration and meddling is too easily crossed. A If you're a fan of shows like Desperate Housewives that sway between the farcical and the semi-serious, with a lot of humorous coincidence thrown in, then this one's for you. The Southern lady dogwalkers of Gordonston are a gossipy bunch of drinkers with a little too much time on their hands. Their business is knowing, or imagining, everyone else's business in the small, privileged enclave where they live. Of course, the line they tread between consideration and meddling is too easily crossed. Add in hearty doses of judgment, deep veins of social propriety, the panicky need for absolute control, and you get a bunch of prim and proper wackos who will stop at nothing to maintain the sense of order each one requires. Unfortunately for the ladies, they are fighting a losing battle against the forces of Southern hospitality, a mid-life boob job, a life-changing trip to Paris, a contract assassin and a houseful of Nazis, not to mention the guy who doesn't pick-up his dog's poop. The author could easily be writing for TV. This is well done and a fun read, with a nice twist at the end to keep you guessing what's going to happen. ...more I enjoyed this book from the beginning, but once I was about half-way through, I couldn't click my Kindle fast enough. I was hooked! The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club is a complex satire that intermingles mystery, drama and dark humor into a multiple plot thriller that kept me riveted until the end. Perhaps I enjoyed it even more because I am from the south and have been to Savannah, GA where the story takes place many times. Mr. Whitehead's description of the old historic district in Savan I enjoyed this book from the beginning, but once I was about half-way through, I couldn't click my Kindle fast enough. I was hooked! The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club is a complex satire that intermingles mystery, drama and dark humor into a multiple plot thriller that kept me riveted until the end. Perhaps I enjoyed it even more because I am from the south and have been to Savannah, GA where the story takes place many times. Mr. Whitehead's description of the old historic district in Savannah was spot-on and as the town's wealthy cling to the illusion of southern gentility, it becomes the perfect setting for his tale of how secrets can entangle people's lives like the Spanish moss hanging in chain-like fashion from the old oak trees. This story doesn't stay in Savannah, but whether Mr. Whitehead is taking us to Argentina or Paris, the descriptions of the locations are just as lush, just as vivid, as are the characters. One of the things I thought was so extraordinary about how this author handled his unusual assortment of characters was that no matter how flawed they were, they were presented to us without judgment and with a surprising amount of humanity. Considering how disingenuous everyone is, this was quite a feat! There were several revelations about who these characters really were, underneath their carefully crafted lies, that were stunning and revealed by the author with razor-sharp timing. I won't tell you anything about the characters or the plot because I don't want to spoil this wonderful read for you. But, when you want to sit down, forget your problems and allow a writer to take you into another world, treat yourself to The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club, an easy read, but a real page-turner! ...more The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club was a great and satisfying read. The description was excellent. Particularly noteworthy was the characterization with thorough exploration of the characters' motives and description of their sometimes eccentric personalities. Heidi, Cindy and Carla were interesting and well cast. The reader is hooked immediately by the unusual setting and the great plot. Romance and intrigue always make for a good story. The description of the setting made the reader feel h The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club was a great and satisfying read. The description was excellent. Particularly noteworthy was the characterization with thorough exploration of the characters' motives and description of their sometimes eccentric personalities. Heidi, Cindy and Carla were interesting and well cast. The reader is hooked immediately by the unusual setting and the great plot. Romance and intrigue always make for a good story. The description of the setting made the reader feel he was right there with the women walking his own dog in the park. I highly recommend this unique book and didn't hesitate to give it 5 ...more This book has so many good things going for it; an interesting plot, devious characters, a glamorous setting, and towards the end a very fast paced climax. I would have enjoyed it more if the beginning had also been faster paced. I didn't like or empathize with any of the characters, which also put me off a bit to start with, however it becomes obvious that you are not meant to; they are all pretty dark and vile people one way or another! I did really enjoy the end, in fact I was turning the pag This book has so many good things going for it; an interesting plot, devious characters, a glamorous setting, and towards the end a very fast paced climax. I would have enjoyed it more if the beginning had also been faster paced. I didn't like or empathize with any of the characters, which also put me off a bit to start with, however it becomes obvious that you are not meant to; they are all pretty dark and vile people one way or another! I did really enjoy the end, in fact I was turning the pages faster and faster. So I would implore people to stick with it if they find the beginning a bit slow. There are a lot of characters, with a lot of back stories, but they do all tie in together towards the end. The story is about a group of bitchy women who sit in the park while their dogs play, and they gossip about their neighbours. I loved the first chapter where a contract killer is preparing a shallow grave. It certainly sucked me in to begin with. We soon find out the neighbours in Gordonston are not exactly who they pretend to be. They all have secrets, and as the story develops, they begin to take out contracts on their enemies. Towards the end you are left wondering who is going to get killed first. We find out who the mysterious 'director' is and that was a shock to me. As I said, slow to start, a bit too much telling rather than showing for me, but then I am a huge fan of dialogue, so that might just be me. But as it goes on it does pull you in and I really enjoyed the ending. ...more I enjoyed this book. The plot twists were inventive and unsuspected. The setting was refreshing and felt authentic; including the two overseas forays the novel takes. There should be a part two: lots of room for character development that could follow along the already well drawn lines. A little tweaking with the writing style could develop a novel that loses all trace of the authors hand and lets readers get fully engrossed in the story. I don\u2019t read a lot of mysteries so I\u2019m not aware of the di I enjoyed this book. The plot twists were inventive and unsuspected. The setting was refreshing and felt authentic; including the two overseas forays the novel takes. There should be a part two: lots of room for character development that could follow along the already well drawn lines. A little tweaking with the writing style could develop a novel that loses all trace of the authors hand and lets readers get fully engrossed in the story. I don\u2019t read a lot of mysteries so I\u2019m not aware of the different techniques generally used by mystery writers to create suspense, but sometimes I felt as though I was told (instead of showed) too much, and other times I felt as though the author wasn\u2019t giving me enough, or was holding back details like a cruel puppet master instead of giving me a little to let me make some of my own conclusions (maybe early Nancy Drew isn\u2019t a good basis for comparison, but it may be all my brain is going on when it comes to mystery novels). Regardless, it was an entertaining read, and I was left feeling satisfied and wanting more, which maybe all we need to judge it upon. ...more I\u2019m not sure what genre this book is, a comedy, a murder mystery or a desperate housewives type of soap book. It doesn\u2019t really fit into any fixed genre. What it is, is funny, not laugh out loud, side holding silliness, but a knowing inner laugh, that plasters a wide grin on your chops. The story of widows, Nazis, assassins and models cover everything in suburbia and all through the women\u2019s dog walking club. Yes, an all-round good fun book, at times the characters confused me, and I had to check I\u2019m not sure what genre this book is, a comedy, a murder mystery or a desperate housewives type of soap book. It doesn\u2019t really fit into any fixed genre. What it is, is funny, not laugh out loud, side holding silliness, but a knowing inner laugh, that plasters a wide grin on your chops. The story of widows, Nazis, assassins and models cover everything in suburbia and all through the women\u2019s dog walking club. Yes, an all-round good fun book, at times the characters confused me, and I had to check back as to which person had the German shepherd dog and which the boob job, also the introduction, that was repeated, in total, near the end of the book was a tad too long. Jeremy Poole (writer) www.jeremypoole.net ...more Take the afternoon and read, this Southern Noir style with a twist. The members of the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club meets in the park every afternoon to let their dogs romp, drink an afternoon cocktail, and most importantly gossip about the neighbors. It seems like a typical southern style community with the young and the old alike living their normal lives, but behind closed doors each has their own dirty little secrets. The question is: who gets theirs aired first? This is a fast-paced n Take the afternoon and read, this Southern Noir style with a twist. The members of the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club meets in the park every afternoon to let their dogs romp, drink an afternoon cocktail, and most importantly gossip about the neighbors. It seems like a typical southern style community with the young and the old alike living their normal lives, but behind closed doors each has their own dirty little secrets. The question is: who gets theirs aired first? This is a fast-paced novel that will keep you guessing right up to the very last page. I would recommend it to anyone who likes revenge, mystery, and whodunnit novels. ...more I loved this book. From the very first chapter it grabs your attention. Some very unlikely elements have you guessing and turning the pages. A group of widows, a community park, politician, a hit man. All dog lovers. Great plot, great clues, and wonderful canines keep you on your toes. Read this one for the story and your love of dogs The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club opens on a lovely morning in Savannah, Georgia, with your friendly neighborhood contract killer preparing to execute his latest job. Rewind the clock by about a week. The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club, a group of older women with a shared fondness for canines and cocktails, sigh about the impending death of one of their own. Thelma is on the verge of succumbing to cancer. Two of the ladies, former Vegas showgirl Carla and wholesome housewife Cindy, al The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club opens on a lovely morning in Savannah, Georgia, with your friendly neighborhood contract killer preparing to execute his latest job. Rewind the clock by about a week. The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club, a group of older women with a shared fondness for canines and cocktails, sigh about the impending death of one of their own. Thelma is on the verge of succumbing to cancer. Two of the ladies, former Vegas showgirl Carla and wholesome housewife Cindy, already have their eye on Thelma\u2019s soon-to-be widower, mayoral candidate Elliott. We are also introduced to the club\u2019s queen bee, an eighty-something-year-old named Heidi, and to several of their neighbors, including Kelly and Tom\u2014a young couple with Hollywood good looks\u2014and newlyweds Veronica and Doug. And then there\u2019s the neighborhood villain: an old man who fails to clean up after his dog during his walks in the park. Each member of this idyllic suburban neighborhood harbors a dirty little secret. Or, if they don\u2019t at the beginning of the novel, they do by the end. The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club follows each member of the community through their intertwining lives. Picture perfect on the outside, not so much behind closed doors. One of them is the contract killer\u2019s victim, and one of them the employer. But who? And why? With everything that\u2019s going on in Gordonston, everyone is fair game. Whitehead successfully employs the third person omniscient perspective in his novel to give the reader insights into each character\u2019s thoughts and motivations, often within one scene. In an era where first person and limited third are in fashion, using the omniscient voice is a daring yet highly effective move. Although Whitehead writes with a distinctive lilt, the narrator for the most part seems invisible, a mere camera through which the reader watches the characters, none of whom is exactly what they appear. Whitehead wastes no words, somehow keeping the prose fluid and tight at the same time. As a result, the pages fly by while at the same time allowing a reader to become immersed in the language and descriptions. Honestly, this book contains some of the finest examples of the omniscient voice I\u2019ve seen in contemporary literature. Whitehead seamlessly integrates the various intertwining storylines. The cast is large, yet each character is so unique that it\u2019s easy to keep track of who is who. Whitehead deftly guides the reader through the secrets, mysteries, and multiple plots, making The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club an easy, relaxing read. There is so much going on, and yet everything feels straightforward with the way Whitehead tells it. In addition to his plotting abilities and knack for creating memorable characters, Whitehead also possesses a real talent for descriptions. It\u2019s easy to picture the locations described in the novel, be it a town in Argentina or the luxuries of Paris. His writing style is mesmerizing, hypnotic even, and it\u2019s easy to get lost in the locations and the lives of the characters. My one criticism would be that he doesn\u2019t always let the reader know where in the timeline they are (for instance, there\u2019s no indication that the first chapter, with the hit man, actually takes place after the bulk of the book until you get close to the end). The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club is a garden of irony, a brilliant suburban satire on par with the popular American TV show Desperate Housewives. Part thriller, part drama, the multitude of questions hanging in the air make it a gripping page-turner, especially toward the second half, where the plot really thickens. It\u2019s a relatively short book, and I ended up reading the whole thing in a single day. With all the juicy details and shocking revelations, I just couldn\u2019t put it down. ...more I can see why this novel is a Finalist in the 2013 Reader's Favorite Annual International Awards Contest. I love small towns, I guess it's because I came from a small town. Although small towns usually go at a slow pace - the same cannot be said for jealous feeling and gossip of small towns. This novel is about some unconventional and slightly strange women whose activities involve walking their dogs, among other things. Although they are friends and share some of the same interests - they still I can see why this novel is a Finalist in the 2013 Reader's Favorite Annual International Awards Contest. I love small towns, I guess it's because I came from a small town. Although small towns usually go at a slow pace - the same cannot be said for jealous feeling and gossip of small towns. This novel is about some unconventional and slightly strange women whose activities involve walking their dogs, among other things. Although they are friends and share some of the same interests - they still have things they do and indulge in secretly. Savannah, Georgia is a delightful place for this kind of mystery. Almost reminds me of Gone With The Wind in a peculiar kind of way. I believe this author is adept at spicing up the stories with humor and accommodates the reading audience with a desire to keep turning pages. You might do as I did by trying to read between the lines, only to be surprised. I think you will like this mixture - it is a curious and different kind of variety that will make for a beautiful day indeed. It surely won't be a thorn in your side. Jeannie Walker - Award Winning Author ...more At first pass, the neighborhood of Gordonston, only a stone\u2019s throw from Savannah, Georgia, seems like the perfect place to live. Lovely old homes, nice yards, and a park in the center for running the dogs and passing the day\u2013what an idyllic setting. But while the dogs play together at one end, the Gordonston Ladies\u2019 Dog-Walking Club (total members: three) catfight at the other, hissing and spitting behind their genteel Southern manners. Replace the park with a shark tank, and you wouldn\u2019t be far At first pass, the neighborhood of Gordonston, only a stone\u2019s throw from Savannah, Georgia, seems like the perfect place to live. Lovely old homes, nice yards, and a park in the center for running the dogs and passing the day\u2013what an idyllic setting. But while the dogs play together at one end, the Gordonston Ladies\u2019 Dog-Walking Club (total members: three) catfight at the other, hissing and spitting behind their genteel Southern manners. Replace the park with a shark tank, and you wouldn\u2019t be far from the truth. Behind the well-constructed fa\u00e7ades of the good neighbors of Gordonston lie sinister thoughts and devious plans. I won\u2019t go into any of them here; suffice it to say that almost every inhabitant of Gordonston is in danger of losing his or her life\u2013at the financial hand of those they trust the most. There are those who have the motive and the financial means to get rid of those who stand in the way of their ambitions. The question is\u2013who will survive who? This is by far the most intriguing murder mystery I have ever read. Instead of a \u201cwhodunit\u201d, it\u2019s more like a \u201cwho\u2019s gonna get it, and why\u201d. Mr. Whitehead weaves a tale as intricate as a spider\u2019s web\u2013and ten times more captivating. Twists and trysts, turns and red herrings, are sprinkled throughout the story. Characters come to life under his crafting, and they are all very real\u2013and very unforgettable. But what will really be worth the wait for the reader is the unveiling of the hired killer\u2013and even more so, of the one who hired this assassin. The reader is kept guessing until the very end. And that, my friends, is what makes a good murder mystery. ...more Day after day, you go to work. You take the train or maybe the bus. You shop at the same stores. You walk down the same sidewalks. You see you the same people, day after day. Strangers once, they become nodding acquaintances, then familiar faces. Daily contact strengthens relationships. Some become friends, others you scorn. You believe you really know each other. But what has changed, really, beyond happenstance contact? Do you really know your coworker? Your neighbor? Your friend? Can you vouc Day after day, you go to work. You take the train or maybe the bus. You shop at the same stores. You walk down the same sidewalks. You see you the same people, day after day. Strangers once, they become nodding acquaintances, then familiar faces. Daily contact strengthens relationships. Some become friends, others you scorn. You believe you really know each other. But what has changed, really, beyond happenstance contact? Do you really know your coworker? Your neighbor? Your friend? Can you vouch for their honesty? Their morals? Do you know all their secrets? Or do you just think you do? The sweet old lady next door couldn\u2019t possibly be a killer. Or could she? Your best friend wouldn\u2019t be jealous of your good looks? Or is she? That good looking young father and house-husband is just the perfect role model. Isn\u2019t he? In the town of Gordonston, a sorrowful event has occurred. Thelma Miller, wife, mother, friend to all, has died. And the neighborhood tilts a little on its axis, a bit out of control. A common mistake made by many is taking a few facts, a few assumptions, and creating a persona that may not be a good fit. In fact, you could be wrong \u2013 dead wrong. Author Duncan Whitehead does a masterful job in creating a delightful community, and then wreaks havoc on it. This suspenseful thriller is sure to delight you as it twists its way to a powerful conclusion you won\u2019t easily believe but have to accept. And it will cause you to think twice as you exchange pleasantries with the people you think you know. I received this book free from The Cadence Group. ...more \"The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club\" by Duncan Whitehead is a very enjoyable and often hilarious book about a group of women who meet in the park with their dog to gossip about the neighbours and complain. Whitehead gives them elaborate backgrounds and distinct and colourful characters. This is very much a comic murder mystery with a lot of societal satire of well off Southern widows and upper class society. I enjoyed the book and read it in one sitting. It is rich in plot, well written and th \"The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club\" by Duncan Whitehead is a very enjoyable and often hilarious book about a group of women who meet in the park with their dog to gossip about the neighbours and complain. Whitehead gives them elaborate backgrounds and distinct and colourful characters. This is very much a comic murder mystery with a lot of societal satire of well off Southern widows and upper class society. I enjoyed the book and read it in one sitting. It is rich in plot, well written and the murder part is cleverer than I would have anticipated in a humorous book as this. Well done. ...more A well-written portrait of a neighborhood surrounding a park in Savannah, Georgia where the neighbors are a potpourri of people. Beware the seemingly benign atmosphere of this neighborly bunch as the author has skillfully woven jealously, resentment, revenge and murder into this nearly pastoral setting. Definitely five stars for the well-developed characters and suspense. Read this one: you won't regret it. Kudos to Mr. Whitehead! Name of Book: The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club Author: Duncan Whitehead ISBN: 978-1-4575-1450-0 Publisher: dog ear publishing Type of book: Murder, relation to Hitler, lies, deceit, betrayal, hit man, dog-walking, widows, Savannah Georgia, secrets, mysteries, 2000s, dogs Year it was published: 2012 Summary: Something is not quite right in the leafy Savannah neighborhood of Gordonston. As the friends and fellow members of her afternoon cocktail club gather to mourn the death and lament the life o Name of Book: The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club Author: Duncan Whitehead ISBN: 978-1-4575-1450-0 Publisher: dog ear publishing Type of book: Murder, relation to Hitler, lies, deceit, betrayal, hit man, dog-walking, widows, Savannah Georgia, secrets, mysteries, 2000s, dogs Year it was published: 2012 Summary: Something is not quite right in the leafy Savannah neighborhood of Gordonston. As the friends and fellow members of her afternoon cocktail club gather to mourn the death and lament the life of their neighbor, Thelma Miller, not all is what it seems. When old friends vie for the attention of widower, Alderman and mayoral candidate Elliott, jealousies surface and friendships are strained. An old woman with a dark secret and an infamous uncle plots her revenge for a perceived wrong done over thirty years before, a once successful children\u2019s writer with his own secret is haunted by memories of the past and aspiring model Kelly Hudd has just won the trip of a lifetime. As secrets are revealed and history, both old and recent unravel, and an intertwined web of deceits and lies surfaces in the middle class neighborhood, a killer lurks and is anyone really who they seem to be? An enigmatic European gentleman in South America, a young Italian count parading the streets of Paris and a charitable and kindhearted nephew recently arrived from India add to the remarkable assortment of characters in this story of intrigue, deceit and revenge. What is the secret a recently retired accountant is trying to hide and just why did the former showgirl and attractive sixty two year old widow Carla Zipp really have plastic surgery? A mysterious organization with links to organized crime, a handsome fire fighter who can do no wrong and a trio of widows with deep hidden agendas compound a story of simplistic complexity. As twists and turns lead the reader to a conclusion that they will not see coming and a sucker punch ending that will leave you breathless, the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club\u2019s top priority remains the need to chastise the culprit who refuses to \u2018scoop\u2019 after his dog walking sessions in their treasured park. Characters: The characters are fascinating as well as textured and unexpected. For me also they seem to be more of told than show, although the author tries to make them the opposite. The women primarily dominate the book and author seems to understand them and the motivations, although in some cases he takes them a little too far. Dogs also appear in the book and they are portrayed as having desires and friends too. They are never there just to be there. The families and people are all different; Kelly and Tom are married couple without children and loving life; Doug and Veronica are married but they have a small daughter and financial difficulties; the other ladies, Carla, Heidi and Cindy are widowed, two of them childless while other has a son; Elliott Miller is soon to be widowed who was married to Thelma and decided to become father to two boys who turned out to be gay. The characters, in other words, are not who they seem to be and they will surprise you. Theme: People are not who they appear to be. Never underestimate someone. Plot: This is written in third person narrative from everyone's point of view. The author makes slight mistakes when it comes to separating who's thinking, as well as the info dump in beginning, when my preference is to parcel out information throughout the book. There are also slight repetition problems, and somehow the characters are written as more of told rather than show variety. Yet the plot twists really dominated my attention so I scarcely paid attention to these defects, which takes a skillful author to do it. Also, just a quick thing, Miller is not a Jewish name. Author Information: (from goodreads.com) born in Preston , The United Kingdom gender male website http://www.thegordonstonladiesdogwalk... twitter username DuncanWhitehead genre Humor And Comedy, Mystery, Crime member since August 2012 About this author Duncan was born in England in 1967. After a successful career in the military where he served in British Embassies throughout South America and saw service in the Gulf War he joined the world of super yachts as a Purser aboard some of the world\u2019s largest private vessels, working for many high profile individuals, being fortunate enough to visit some of the world\u2019s most luxurious and exotic places. Eventually retiring to Savannah, Georgia, he began to partake of his greatest passion, writing. Initially writing short stories he finally put pen to paper and wrote The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club, inspired by the quirky characters and eeriness of his new environment, the book, a thriller, which boasts an assortment of characters and plot twists, set in the leafy neighborhood where he lived. His passion for comedy saw submissions to The Onion and a stint performing as a stand-up comedian. He is a former boxer, representing the Royal Navy and an English under 19 team as an amateur and is a qualified teacher of English as a foreign language as well as a former accomplished children\u2019s soccer coach. In 2011 Duncan returned to South America, spending six months in Brazil and a few months in Paraguay before travelling to the Middle-East and Europe before returning to the United States. He is fluent in Spanish and Portuguese, gets by with Russian and Arabic and lists his hobbies and passions as cooking, the Israeli self defense art of Krav Maga, Esgrima Criolla (The South American Art of knife Fighting)and the deadly pressure point martial art Dim-Mak. Duncan has written over 2,000 spoof and comedy news articles, under various aliases, for an assortment of web sites both in the US and UK. As well as his other activities he performs volunteer work, as a hospice visitor. He has penned a further novel; a comedy set in Manhattan, The Reluctant Jesus, as well as drafting the sequel and second book in The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club trilogy. Opinion: It takes a genius to write a book with mistakes, but for mistakes not to ruin my reading experience and give the author five stars. I was hesitant on that because I didn't want to seem fickle or whatnot, but when a book leaves me hungry for more, as well as seeing how the loose ends will play out in (hopefully,) the next two books, the five stars are well deserved. I won this book on December 30th, 2012 and received it on January 14th, 2013, with a business card of the book, an autograph a postcard and a funny note where the author mentions to say that the book is good for something, even if its used to swat flies. The author does make slight mistakes, such as slight repetition of sentences, or the info dump in beginning chapters about various characters that from time to time I had a hard time keeping track. Yet he certainly knows how to deliver punches when you least expect them. In beginning the book tends to be a bit slow, but then it rapidly picks up, and all I cared was how it would all end. I can imagine that the book would make a good mini-series on TV. Its like a guilty pleasure read; it doesn't have in depth writing, but instead its good to relax to. Despite the mistakes, I would recommend that one should try this book and perhaps they'll love it. I am looking forward to reading the next two books whenever they come out. Quick notes: I won this book on goodreads.com thus this review will appear in its entirety on goodreads as well as the blog 5 out of 5 (0: Stay away unless a masochist 1: Good for insomnia 2: Horrible but readable; 3: Readable and quickly forgettable, 4: Good, enjoyable 5: Buy it, keep it and never let it go.) http://sveta-randomblog.blogspot.com/... ...more The character development in this book is incredibly rich. The author introduced me to the entire town of Savannah, Georgia, and being privy to everyone's gossip, which reads hypnotically, I felt I knew as much about the people in the town as if I had lived there my whole life. The book is unique because it is an epic case of the pot calling the kettle black--in the beginning of the story, I was led to believe that everyone was a bunch of honest, upstanding, well-meaning and well-mannered citizen The character development in this book is incredibly rich. The author introduced me to the entire town of Savannah, Georgia, and being privy to everyone's gossip, which reads hypnotically, I felt I knew as much about the people in the town as if I had lived there my whole life. The book is unique because it is an epic case of the pot calling the kettle black--in the beginning of the story, I was led to believe that everyone was a bunch of honest, upstanding, well-meaning and well-mannered citizens. As the story progressed, slowly, layers peeled away from everyone that detailed they were not what they appeared on the surface. Everyone lies, gossips, backstabs, there is murder, theft, and infidelity. The city's leaders, upstanding fathers, loving wives, no one is innocent--this book provides a stark look at the self-serving side of human nature, and elaborates on the mad extent to which people will cheat others to further their personal goals, with a tongue-in-cheek sense of humor. The book is loaded with twists and turns as characters' personalities are revealed, blurring the lines between hero and villain. Just when I thought I could trust someone, I was shocked to learn what they did; just when I thought someone couldn't possibly be more appalling, I learned something about them that made me incredibly sympathetic. On top of a wonderfully complex cast, everyone's stories intersect in intriguing ways--there is serendipity, there are misunderstandings, and all the magic of coincidence that evokes the saying, \"It's a small world.\" There are some excellent slices of life in the story: Thelma's death was especially touching (reminded me of my own grandmother's passing), and I thoroughly enjoyed the travels through Paris and Argentina. This book was an adventure and time well-spent. I hope to see more novels from Mr. Whitehead in the future! ...more This paperback with its flashy cover has been sitting for several years on top of a shelf with another book I read in the past. Why do I have it? I didn't get it for my mother as the publication date is after her death. It looks new. I may have bought it in Sam's Club on the excuse it could be a gift for a dog lover. In other words, it was an impulsive purchase. Wish I'd bought The Orchardist the time I saw it, but that one I passed up. My Sam's Club where I used to make impulsive purchases like This paperback with its flashy cover has been sitting for several years on top of a shelf with another book I read in the past. Why do I have it? I didn't get it for my mother as the publication date is after her death. It looks new. I may have bought it in Sam's Club on the excuse it could be a gift for a dog lover. In other words, it was an impulsive purchase. Wish I'd bought The Orchardist the time I saw it, but that one I passed up. My Sam's Club where I used to make impulsive purchases like this one doesn't carry many books anymore--just some hardback bestsellers and mass-market paperbacks. The other day I had the lust to read a mindless pleasure, and for a few minutes it was that. Surprisingly it didn't begin as the chick lit I expected but as a crime novel. A hit man was digging a hole in the park in preparation for his victim. The chick lit part began with chapter 2. Then I started to find typos and grammatical errors. The narrator said something and a character echoed it. Were the characters stereotypes in a farce, or were they to be realistic? My sense of pleasure evaporated. The book would have had to be either better written or more of a pleasure. I liked that the ladies were around my age and that the novel was set in Savannah, but it wasn't enough. Today I flipped through and read the end. Ha ha, improbable plot! Fiction is hard. I don't see how they do it. So despite what I've written, I respect the effort. My Little Free Library has been a little bare, and this one will be just the thing. ...more I loved this book from the very beginning. Coming from a small town myself I totally got the \u201csmall community mentality\u201d and could identify with the quirky residents that lived there. I wondered how Duncan Whitehead, a man, could have known with such accuracy, how women thought and acted...sweet to the face, backstabbing once the back was exposed! And oh the gossip and getting into everyone\u2019s business that went on. He was spot on! I found myself laugh right out loud as I followed the plot twists I loved this book from the very beginning. Coming from a small town myself I totally got the \u201csmall community mentality\u201d and could identify with the quirky residents that lived there. I wondered how Duncan Whitehead, a man, could have known with such accuracy, how women thought and acted...sweet to the face, backstabbing once the back was exposed! And oh the gossip and getting into everyone\u2019s business that went on. He was spot on! I found myself laugh right out loud as I followed the plot twists and turns, as well as the wonderful character development. It is a fun, entertaining and lighthearted read. All the prime characters have a reason to have chosen to live in this upscale Savannah neighborhood of Gordonston. Mystery, intrigue and even murder are all encapsulated in the story to make you want to read on to the very last page to see \u201cwho done it\u201d and why. It was storytelling at its best and Duncan brilliantly left the best for last - the very last paragraph was when all your questions that were building up through the read was exposed. I squealed, closed my jaw and said to myself, \u201cI never would have guessed!\u201d This is the perfect reason why you should never ever read the last page of a book first. I can\u2019t wait until some film maker discovers this little gem and I can view it on the big screen. For your information February 22 is National Dog Walking Day and leading up to this special event, \u201cThe Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club ebook will be available for $.99 as a promo from February 14-February 22. Great opportunity! Great book! ...more Well it's not every day you come across a book that glorifies Hitler... I found the constant changing between different characters voices annoying and never felt like I got to know any of the characters. I actually didn't even care which of the 4 who had contracts out on them got killed. The plots were not well developed and the major one was downright implausible. The book revolves around the 4 ladies who make up the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club. Thelma Miller is dying of cancer (dies in Chapter Two) and her imminent death has the two younger members of the cl I found the constant changing between different characters voices annoying and never felt like I got to know any of the characters. I actually didn't even care which of the 4 who had contracts out on them got killed. The plots were not well developed and the major one was downright implausible. The book revolves around the 4 ladies who make up the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club. Thelma Miller is dying of cancer (dies in Chapter Two) and her imminent death has the two younger members of the club plotting how to snare her husband after her death and the eldest member plotting to kill him. Heidi Launter (implausibly the niece of Adolf Hitler) resents The Jew Elliott Miller for stealing her Uncle's stories for children, and takes a contract out to have him killed. Carla Zipp the Ex Vegas Showgirl, married a Florida Banker only to become tired of his constant cheating on her. She found a \"creative\" way to end his cheating and is equally determined to pay Tom (Kelly's husband) back for dumping her after his wife returns from Paris. An old Vegas chum helps her arrange the contract on Tom's life. Cindy Moppet opens her home to her nephew the con-artist Billy. Kelly (Tom's wife) takes a contract out on him when she realizes Billy is the Italian Count she slept with in Paris. Cindy fearing Elliott Miller will choose Carla as his wife takes a contract out on Carla. Unbeknownst to the inhabits of Gordonston both \"the Director\" who chooses which contracts to accept and whose contract will be taken care of first and the Contract Killer lives in the neighborhood. ...more In a cleverly twisted plot, there are 4 possible victims, and yet only one suspect, so far. With an eye for lush imagery and a tongue in cheek sense of the absurdities of suburban living, the satire is intermingled throughout the story, aiding in the reader\u2019s enjoyment of the characters and the plots that are set against them. With distrust and suspicion, friendships and romantic entanglements are revealed, and are slowly unravelling as the plot thickens, with several twists that were unique and In a cleverly twisted plot, there are 4 possible victims, and yet only one suspect, so far. With an eye for lush imagery and a tongue in cheek sense of the absurdities of suburban living, the satire is intermingled throughout the story, aiding in the reader\u2019s enjoyment of the characters and the plots that are set against them. With distrust and suspicion, friendships and romantic entanglements are revealed, and are slowly unravelling as the plot thickens, with several twists that were unique and very reminiscent of playing the game of Clue as a child. Thoroughly entertaining, the pacing improves as the book moves on to a conclusion that certainly leaves room open for one, or more, murders. I received an eBook copy from the author for purpose of honest review during my Indies Rock promotion on I am, Indeed. I was not compensated for this review, and all conclusions are my own responsibility. ...more Having been to Savannah several times, I was hoping that this book would be somewhat akin to Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, highlighting some of the quirky characters of the city, while still showcasing its history and beauty. The book is amusing, with an incredibly twisted ending. But it is all too improbable and requires a total willingness to put aside the reader's general commonsense. But this is the part that almost had me put the book down with revulsion. Anyone who thinks to por Having been to Savannah several times, I was hoping that this book would be somewhat akin to Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil, highlighting some of the quirky characters of the city, while still showcasing its history and beauty. The book is amusing, with an incredibly twisted ending. But it is all too improbable and requires a total willingness to put aside the reader's general commonsense. But this is the part that almost had me put the book down with revulsion. Anyone who thinks to portray Adolph Hitler, the epitome of evil, as a \"kindly old man\" who had escaped to South America, or as a beloved uncle, is seriously disregarding the monster that this man was! I cannot respect anyone who would twist the character of Hitler to reflect a loving person as a responsible writer. Shame on you Mr. Whitehead for portraying him as such. ...more A 3.5* rating. The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club is a satirical mystery novel, with elements of dark comedy, set in Savannah, Georgia. It is a fun and pleasant read that certainly had me smiling and laughing. As one reviewer so aptly described it: \"I felt like I was on the set of Desperate Housewives with Cesar Millan while reading an Agatha Christie mystery\". So true! Secrets abound in the tiny neighbourhood of Gordonston, an affluent neighbourhood outside Savannah. The four members of the G A 3.5* rating. The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club is a satirical mystery novel, with elements of dark comedy, set in Savannah, Georgia. It is a fun and pleasant read that certainly had me smiling and laughing. As one reviewer so aptly described it: \"I felt like I was on the set of Desperate Housewives with Cesar Millan while reading an Agatha Christie mystery\". So true! Secrets abound in the tiny neighbourhood of Gordonston, an affluent neighbourhood outside Savannah. The four members of the Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club have been meeting for the last ten years in the local park. While their dogs romp and play, they share cocktails and the latest gossip. When one of their members passes away from throat cancer, we start to see the secrets that the other three members have been concealing. In addition to the ladies we also meet several neighbours that use the dog park and learn that all is not as it seems. With distrust and suspicion, friendships slowly unravel and paranoia sets in. One thing is for certain: the residents of Gordonston will do anything to protect their secrets even if it means murder! Duncan Whitehead has brought us a strangely suspenseful tale with a delightful eclectic cast of characters. Red herrings and twisted theories keep us guessing as we try to remove the masks surrounding these characters through events in time. With a tongue in cheek sense of the absurdities of suburban living, satire is intermingled throughout the story, adding to the reader\u2019s enjoyment of the characters and the plots that are set against them. So why a 3.5* rating? It is unfortunate that I read this book after reading two tightly woven mysteries by new authors. I was particularly frustrated with the loose editing and proof reading of The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club and this impacted the flow of the story and resulted in loss of concentration. Along with typographical, grammatical and content errors, there were several repeated facts and chapters (chapters 1 and 18 were verbatim) that were, in my view, not necessary for the reader. Overall I did enjoy this book and recommend it. It is a hilarious cosy murder mystery with a kick. I understand that a sequel is due for release and I will continue to follow this saga of intrigue, deceit, and vengeance. ...more<---C>Duncan Whitehead</---C>", "Title": "The Gordonston Ladies Dog Walking Club"},
