{"Comments": "Shenanigans! I cry shenanigans on <---A>Stephen King</---A>! King put me through years of mental torture with The Dark Tower series, but I was able to forgive once he finally delivered a fitting ending to that saga. So I had a lot of concerns about him returning to the story of Roland. I worried that King had come down with a vicious case of Lucasitis that was going to have him tinkering with this story repeatedly. However, King\u2019s public statements indicated that it would not change the core Dark Tower story Shenanigans! I cry shenanigans on Stephen King! King put me through years of mental torture with The Dark Tower series, but I was able to forgive once he finally delivered a fitting ending to that saga. So I had a lot of concerns about him returning to the story of Roland. I worried that King had come down with a vicious case of Lucasitis that was going to have him tinkering with this story repeatedly. However, King\u2019s public statements indicated that it would not change the core Dark Tower story and that it would just explore the long interlude between the fourth and fifth books. I\u2019ve always had a big question regarding that since the end of Wizard & Glass had young Jake still being a new arrival to Mid-World and completely untrained as a gunslinger while Eddie and Susannah still had a lot to learn about carrying the heavy iron. When Wolves of the Calla picked up, all of them were stone cold bad asses after being on the path of the Beam for a good long while. It seemed like King was going to fill in that gap, and that was a story that I would have been interested in reading. I have to note here that Wizard & Glass is my least favorite of the Dark Tower books. This was mainly for three reasons: 1) After years of waiting, it didn\u2019t advance the core story at all and instead focused on a flashback to young Roland. 2) It involved a long tale with a character who really didn\u2019t have anything to do with DT after that book. 3) It was filled with fucking Wizard of Oz references. So what do we get in <+++>The Wind Through the Keyhole</+++> ? 1) A flashback story to young Roland. 2) A flashback inside another flashback that tells a long tale about a character that has nothing to do with the rest of the DT story. 3) A couple of Wizard of Oz references. Adding insult to injury, the main reason I read this wasn't addressed. Even though it\u2019s supposed to be shortly after the ending of the fourth book, Jake is suddenly carrying a gun and going off ahead of the others and no one is worried because \u201cHe can take care of himself.\u201d WHEN?? WHEN THE FUCK DID THAT HAPPEN? BECAUSE AS FAR AS I KNOW HE\u2019S STILL THE KID WHO GOT KIDNAPPED AND NEARLY KILLED IN LUD, YET A WEEK OR TWO LATER HE\u2019S JUST A GODDAMN GUNSLINGER WITH ABSOLUTELY NO TRAINING!! *ahem* So instead of getting the one damn question I wanted answered in this, the gunslingers are used as a framing device for Roland to tell them a story about his past that turns into him telling some little bastard a tale about another little bastard wandering off into the woods. Seriously, this could have been a fun offshoot short story or stories in larger collections someday, but putting them in a hardback and calling them Dark Tower just seems like the worst kind of bait and switch. I\u2019m going to sell this one to a used book store and pretend it doesn\u2019t exist. ...more The headline here is that I almost never read a book in 3 days - but I did this one and I was up past my bedtime turning pages. Stephen King has written this series across the whole span of his adult life & both the character and quality of the series change across the decades (<---B>and also between front and back cover</---B>). For me Dark Tower as a whole is often spectacular,<---M> sometimes a bit weak</---M>, but mostly very good. The Wind Through The Keyhole (TWTTK) is set just after my favourite of the series ' The headline here is that I almost never read a book in 3 days - but I did this one and I was up past my bedtime turning pages. Stephen King has written this series across the whole span of his adult life & both the character and quality of the series change across the decades (and also between front and back cover). For me Dark Tower as a whole is often spectacular, sometimes a bit weak, but mostly very good. The Wind Through The Keyhole (TWTTK) is set just after my favourite of the series 'Wizard and Glass' and focuses on the Gilead days (my favourite part of Wizard and Glass) so there was always going to be a good chance I'd like it. This is a story within a story within a story, and most of the book is spent at the deepest layer of this Russian doll. King is returning to ground he last trod 15 years ago and it's as if he never left. There's nothing in TWTTK that is particularly important to the Dark Tower story, no great insight into the ending of the grand tale or really into the characters - it is what it is, an exciting and imaginative tale told using characters (well really only Roland as the rest of his ka-tet feature only very briefly) that we know very well and want to see in action. For me the pacing, atmosphere, and balance of mystery vs menace in this tale just hit perfectly and I got exactly what I wanted - hence the 5 stars up top. Will everyone love this book? No - but I don't think many will hate it. Can you read it cold, without having read the other 7. Yes, but you'd be missing out on a lot. If you read it before book 5 and after book 4 (as the #4.5 indicates) then that would be fine too. But certainly it's a must for all Dark Tower fans, and if you've not read King's masterwork ... then get to it! Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes ...more Prologue: No one said that the path to the beam, on the way to the Dark Tower was going to be this hard... I was promised rainbows and unicorns, from my fearless leader- Stepheny .... She CAN be kind of a liaaaaaaaaaar- and she is sort of insaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaane- so I should have known this wasn't going to be easy. ...but sweet 8 pound 6 ounce baby Jesus- I had nooooooo forewarning that one of my beloved Ka-tet was going to fight tooth and nail..<---F>not to read 4</---F>.5. Getting everyone on board for this on Prologue: No one said that the path to the beam, on the way to the Dark Tower was going to be this hard... I was promised rainbows and unicorns, from my fearless leader- Stepheny .... She CAN be kind of a liaaaaaaaaaar- and she is sort of insaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaane- so I should have known this wasn't going to be easy. ...but sweet 8 pound 6 ounce baby Jesus- I had nooooooo forewarning that one of my beloved Ka-tet was going to fight tooth and nail..not to read 4.5. Getting everyone on board for this one especially- Dan 2.0 ...was somewhat...difficult- and it kind of went like this. [image error] [image error] [image error] I won't mention any names- but there was a big obstacle to overcome...okay maaaaaybe I will mention a name... Kemper . Kemper you are a worthy opponent- We won the battle...this time- I have yet to see who will win the waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaar. Let me just say- I am glad you liked the rest of the series, because I don't think I would be strong enough to take you on- for books 5, 6, and 7.... On with the review: [image error] Roland and his Ka-tet arrive at a river- and an elderly man- Bix- that operates the ferry assists them across the river. A starkblast is coming and they will need to find shelter to wait out the storm. Roland tells them of an adventure in his youth to keep them occupied: The story of The Skin Man...and a story within the story- a tale that was told to Roland by his mother long ago. [image error] First story: Following the death of his mother- his father sends Roland and his friend Jamie De Curry to the town of Debaria on a mission to capture the Skin-Man. [image error] Second story: Tim Ross lives with his mother Nell in a village who's property taxes are collected by a mysterious man called- The Covenant Man. Tim recently lost his father- who supposedly was killed by a dragon....but dragons may have been given a bad rap....read the book and you can decide for yourself.... [image error] I looooved THE WIND THROUGH THE KEYHOLE!!!! Sorry Kemper...I really did. For those of you that didn't like book 4....you may not like this one- but for those of you that did...this will be a pleasant journey. The rest of the not so resistant buddies/Ka-tet- Bev , Jeff , Jason and Evgeny - Onward and upward....let the buddy-read continue. ...more While taking shelter from a storm along the Path of the Beam, Roland tells his ka-tet a story from his youth, about going up against a skin-man with Jamie DeCurry, in which he tells a frightened youth yet another story to bolster his courage... First off, it pains me to give a Dark Tower book less than four stars but I thought this one was on par with Wizard and Glass. <+++>The Wind Through the Keyhole</+++> is really three tales nested within one another. One features our beloved ka-tet, somewhere between t While taking shelter from a storm along the Path of the Beam, Roland tells his ka-tet a story from his youth, about going up against a skin-man with Jamie DeCurry, in which he tells a frightened youth yet another story to bolster his courage... First off, it pains me to give a Dark Tower book less than four stars but I thought this one was on par with Wizard and Glass. The Wind Through the Keyhole is really three tales nested within one another. One features our beloved ka-tet, somewhere between the green city from the end of Wizard and Glass and Wolves of the Calla, the second a tale from Roland's youth, and a third a fable from Roland's world. Since The Dark Tower is one of my all time favorite works, my expectations were extremely high and this book didn't live up to them. It isn't a bad book, though. Roland and the ka-tet are true to form. It didn't feel forced or tacked on. Rather, the stories felt natural and fleshed out both Roland's background and the mythology of Mid-World. I liked the Covenant Man quite a bit and the tale of the skin-man held my interest. If they weren't part of The Dark Tower, I probably would have rated them higher. Tim's tale reminded me of Eyes of the Dragon, one of Stephen King's more underrated works. I guess my main gripe was that there wasn't much in the way of gunslinging action. Sure, Roland got to strut his stuff a bit but I was hoping for something to explain the ka-tet's transformation between books four and five. Despite my gripes, I did enjoy The Wind Through the Keyhole and I was quite pleased that King left the ending open enough that he could stick another book or two in before the gang gets to the Calla. That'll have to satisfy my Dark Tower jones for now. ...more Welcome to flashback town, population - Wizard and Glass and The Wind Through the Keyhole . (It's a terrible ride btw, unless you enjoy your head getting bashed over and over again.) Wizard and Glass may have the record for length of flashback, but Wind Through the Keyhole goes Inception* on that flashback with a flashback** within a flashback. *It's still accepted to reference Inception right? **Okay, really it's a story within a flashback, but the story is a flashback to an even younger Roland te Welcome to flashback town, population - Wizard and Glass and The Wind Through the Keyhole . (It's a terrible ride btw, unless you enjoy your head getting bashed over and over again.) Wizard and Glass may have the record for length of flashback, but Wind Through the Keyhole goes Inception* on that flashback with a flashback** within a flashback. *It's still accepted to reference Inception right? **Okay, really it's a story within a flashback, but the story is a flashback to an even younger Roland technically so...I'm going with it anyway. As someone who has been reading this series chronologically (i.e., I've read the first four in the Dark Tower series, but have yet to read the last three), I'm having a really hard time picturing what it's like for a Dark Tower book to have plot progression with the main Ka-tet. This book's been quite the divisive one and to be honest, I can't really disagree with what a lot of people have said who didn't like it nearly as much as I did. So, having only read the first four books, reading The Wind Through the Keyhole was just a continuation of the last book, Wizard and Glass. I'm sure there are some things in Wind that I missed having not read the last three, and knowing this, of course we know our friends are going to be okay...right? Or are they? (yeah, they're fine) And yet, that doesn't mean there's no dramatic tension. If you've read any of my reviews, you probably already know that I really don't know what I'm talking about . I didn't major in English and I've easily forgotten anything I've ever learned in high school or undergrad. Given that, I want to talk about literary devices for a sec. Just because we know the ending already (well, not me), doesn't mean a story lacks tension. While we know they'll be \"all right,\" one, we don't know how other characters will fair, and two, we're still looking for how they get back to \"all right\" because they're not at this point. So, it's really just a focus shift. Okay, I'll quit talking about things I know nothing about...well, probably not. We pick up just after the events from W&G as our fearless Ka-tet is on their way from the glass tower in the first section titled \"Starkblast.\" This doesn't last long, as you can imagine, and we're back into a flashback story from Roland's youth, which actually takes place just after the flashback from Wizard and Glass. This flashback is called \"The Skin-Man.\" Roland is sent on anther mission to another remote area of the world where a gunslinger is needed. Sadly, he takes another young gunslinger with him, not Alain and Cuthbert. I was SOOOO disappointed, I thought for sure we'd get those guys back. (Not sure if those are even Alain and Cuthbert, but the picture's pretty cool anyway.) But wait, there's more...flashbacks that is. During the flashback in \"The Skin-Man,\" Roland tells the titular tale, \"The Wind Through the Keyhole.\" This tale actually makes up the bulk of the book and was easily my favorite part. In \"The Wind Through the Keyhole,\" King is in top form writing-wise. The story is independent and only mildly relates to either of the two other stories, but it's still a great one and I loved every minute of it. It's a great old-timey adventure story about a kid who braves impossible odds to help his family. I have to say this again, the writing is top-notch (or tip top as the Swiss would say). He fits it to the story perfectly and puts me in awe at the talent this man possesses. He is the King in name and writing. And just like a Matryoshka (or Russian nesting) doll, we head back to the first flashback in \"The Skin-Man Part 2\" and then back to our Ka-tet. In summary, the story goes like this (not necessarily using the given titles): Ka-tet > Flashback to Young Roland > The Wind Through the Keyhole (main story) > Flashback to Young Roland > Ka-tet. As much as I loved the main story, I didn't love the ending to the Young Roland flashback and the ka-tet portion was just a reference point if anything. As someone who considers Wizard and Glass one of his all-time favorite books, I love me a good flashback. Not everyone does and I'll even admit that I thought this book would be a tale of the Ka-tet, not another flashback within a flashback. I'd still recommend this to readers of the Dark Tower and even non-readers may not be too confused. 4 out of 5 Stars (Highly Recommended) Worth checking out: Here's a detailed list of all of King's books from worst to best with semi-detailed descriptions of why the article's author thinks so. ...more Roland and his sidekicks (called ka-tet) were minding their own business and kept going towards the Dark Tower when suddenly they had to interrupt their journey in a hurry, find some shelter and stay put for several days. Roland tells a story from his younger days to kill time (Skin Man). In that story he in turn had to kill some time and recounted another - this time fictional - story named The Wind Through the Keyhole. Confused yet? I hope the following picture helps. So there is a story inside Roland and his sidekicks (called ka-tet) were minding their own business and kept going towards the Dark Tower when suddenly they had to interrupt their journey in a hurry, find some shelter and stay put for several days. Roland tells a story from his younger days to kill time (Skin Man). In that story he in turn had to kill some time and recounted another - this time fictional - story named The Wind Through the Keyhole. Confused yet? I hope the following picture helps. So there is a story inside of a story inside of a story. The outer story takes place shortly after the events of Wizard and Glass. Despite King's reassurance in the Foreword it does contain some spoilers, albeit minor ones. It does not move the overall plot even by an inch. To cut to the chase, this part closely resembles the predecessor book I mentioned so if you like it you will like this story as well. As a corollary it follows that you can read this book at any time after book 4 . The middle story called Skin Man was the most interesting one. I was excited about it when I learned it was about Roland's days in Gilead shortly after the events of his flashback in Wizard and Glass. I hoped to see more Alain and Cuthbert, but got Jamie instead - and let us face it: Jamie is a pale shadow of these two. Other than this the tale was exciting and quite gruesome. The inner story which gave the title to the whole book began slow and was quite boring and predictable for approximately one third of it. I can even give the exact place where it began to become interesting: with the appearance of the Tax Collector. At this point I have to confess I hate the end of the whole series with a passion. I will not discuss it here, but I actually like this book. Yes, it does feel like King has some unused scenes from both last Roland's ka-tet travel (outer story), his flashback of book 4 (middle story), and an unrelated story loosely connected to mid-world (inner story), but it kinda sorta works - in a good way. My final rating is 3.5 stars rounded up. Why up? Because with the exception I mentioned above I was never bored with the read. I might feel 4 stars is a little bit high rating, but 3 stars are most definitely low. P.S. Clint Eastwood in his prime would be THE actor to play Roland; nobody comes anywhere close - see the first picture as a proof. ...more This is the chilling prequel to my review of Wizard and Glass . Inside the adobe the temperature dropped noticeably. If it weren\u2019t for the fire in the hearth the ka-tet would have been shivering uncontrollably. Outside the winds from the starkblast reverberated off the dwelling like the screams of a banshee in heat. The crack of exploding trees sounded like water balloons bursting against concrete. The tall blonde turned to the strapping man, a Cheshire smile painted on her face, \u201cYou know, I have a This is the chilling prequel to my review of Wizard and Glass . Inside the adobe the temperature dropped noticeably. If it weren\u2019t for the fire in the hearth the ka-tet would have been shivering uncontrollably. Outside the winds from the starkblast reverberated off the dwelling like the screams of a banshee in heat. The crack of exploding trees sounded like water balloons bursting against concrete. The tall blonde turned to the strapping man, a Cheshire smile painted on her face, \u201cYou know, I have a surprise fer ya when we get to the end of the Beam.\" The man shook the cob webs out of his head. \u201cThe only beam I care about has a first name and it\u2019s Jim. Jim Beam.\u201d \u201cOh, this surprise\u2019ll captivate ya, ya brawlin\u2019, boozin\u2019 sidewinder.\u201d She laughed maniacally to herself and turned away from the man. After feeding branches into the fire, the tall blonde strode around the adobe for a few minutes and then announced that it was time for a story. The strapping man groaned. \u201cWhat was that, my cully? Didn\u2019t quite catch that\u201d The man\u2019s face fell. \u201cAnother story? I\u2019m tar\u2019d! The last damn story ya done told, lasted fer days and we had ta beg ya fer bathroom breaks. No, I ain\u2019t listenin\u2019 to no stories. No sai, I ain\u2019t.\u201d The sound of a pair of pistols cocking at the back of head, almost made the man soil himself. \u201cIs there a problem here, Quick Draw?\u201d The second smaller woman\u2019s voice cut through the chill and flickering shadows like an ice pick. \u201cThere ain\u2019t no problem, Rootin\u2019 Tootin\u2019.\u201d She turned to the man. \u201cIs there?\u201d Rootin\u2019 Tootin\u2019 eyed the man. \u201cCause if there\u2019s a problem, I can get the ball gag and hand cuffs outta my saddle bag.\u201d \u201cThere ain\u2019t no problem,\u201d muttered the man. \u201cGood, cause yer gonna like this story, cuz it\u2019s two stories in one, it\u2019s clever like one of them there Russian Matryoshka dolls.\u201d The tall woman sighed and started her tale, \u201cPicture a peach. Down on the farm. Times are tough\u2026\u201d The man put his head down, hat over his eyes and started to weep softly and then drifted off into sleep, until he was awakened by a hard kick to the ribs\u2026 Both women cackled. ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606 \u201cIt was the best of times, it was the worst of times\u2026it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.\u201d Whoops! Wrong quote there, but it seems somewhat appropriate for such a polarizing little book. I\u2019m truly shocked at how varied the ratings are on this one, even amongst friends whose opinions I trust. I typically avoid all the .5 stories, since they\u2019re usually just pointless filler, and seeing some of those one star ratings out there was not especially encouraging. Our fearless \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u2606\u00bd \u201cIt was the best of times, it was the worst of times\u2026it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair.\u201d Whoops! Wrong quote there, but it seems somewhat appropriate for such a polarizing little book. I\u2019m truly shocked at how varied the ratings are on this one, even amongst friends whose opinions I trust. I typically avoid all the .5 stories, since they\u2019re usually just pointless filler, and seeing some of those one star ratings out there was not especially encouraging. Our fearless leader; however, insisted I tag along, so I reluctantly caved to the peer pressure. Boy, am I ever glad that I did! \u201cTime is a keyhole, he thought as he looked up at the stars. Yes, I think so. We sometimes bend and peer through it. And the wind we feel on our cheeks when we do\u2014the wind that blows through the keyhole\u2014is the breath of all the living universe.\u201d As many have stated, this one is a story within a story within a story. Sounds confusing, but it's actually not. It all begins where book four left off. Our ka-tet is still on the path of the beam, but a powerful storm forces our group to seek shelter. While we wait out the storm, Roland tells of an adventure from his youth. Properly told, I might add, in the first person this time around. The story he tells, occurs fairly soon after the Susan Delgado flashback from book four. There\u2019s talk of a \u201cskin-man\u201d or shape-shifter plaguing the small town of Debaria, not far from Gilead. Roland\u2019s father doubts the rumors are true, he believes it\u2019s probably just some lunatic wearing animal skins, but sends Roland and his friend Jamie, another young gunslinger with a bit of dead fish personality, to investigate nonetheless. The day after they arrive in Debaria the gunslingers are taken to the scene of a grizzly mass murder. Roland devises a plan to flesh out the perpetrator, and sets Jamie and the local Sheriff to the task. He returns to town with the lone survivor, a young boy, and waits for the others. To pass the time, and keep the boy\u2019s mind off the horrific events he\u2019s witnessed, Roland tells of another tale. The Wind Through the Keyhole is a very old story told to Roland by his mother. It occurred once upon a bye, back in the days of dragons, and endless forest, a time when Maerlyn himself walked the earth. It essentially revolves around a brave young boy named Tim, the lengths to which he would go to save his mother, and a mysterious Covenant Man scheming in the background. Wind is the central theme that links all the tales; from the starkblast, to the simoom, to the wind through the keyhole. As someone who's yet to read the entire series I thought this book held some nice intrigue, and provided a few juicy tidbits that added to the Dark Tower lore. As feared, it doesn\u2019t really advance our long journey; however, that's not to say that there weren't some interesting developments. We actually get to meet Maerlyn, and learn a little more of the Red King, and the world building and folklore are superb throughout. Most importantly though, the story itself was engaging, start to finish. I've read a lot of those negative reviews, and the complaints seem to revolve around a few key issues. One, this story didn't address the long gap between books four and five. Two, our current ka-tet was almost entirely absent from the tale. Three, Jamie is a poor substitute for Roland\u2019s original ka-tet in the Skin-Man story. Four, the Wind through the Keyhole is an old story with many unknown characters that are unimportant to the Dark Tower. Essentially it all felt like a case of bait-and-switch, where fans were promised one thing, but King delivers something entirely different. I get that, I understand those frustrations, I really do, but setting aside all those feelings and judging the story strictly on its merits I couldn't truthfully call this anything other than a success. And frankly, I enjoyed the hell out of it. Maybe it was a case of the right place, right time; call it what you will, but this was some of the most fun I've had in Mid-World since book two! It just goes to show when he writes concisely, and cuts out all that needless filler, uncle Stevie can still spin one hell of a yarn. This has actually renewed my enthusiasm for the series. I hope things get back on track, and I can't wait to see where it all leads! I may even have to reverse my stance on .5 stories. I see how it can be fun to check back in on a familiar world even if it's not to advance the overall plot line. 4.5 stars. Minus \u00bd a star for the fairly predictable early sections of the WTTK tale and rushed ending to the Skin-Man. Overall though, I loved it. \u201cStories take a person away. If they\u2019re good ones, that is. It is a good one?\u201d \u201cYes. I always thought so, anyway.\u201d \u201cThen tell it.\u201d The rest of our ka-tet, Stepheny , Jeff , Delee , Jason , and Evgeny jumped in for one book only. Karly sat this one out, and Kat & Bev are still lost somewhere along the path of the beam. ...more *My shiny new updated review for my re-read* As I look back on our long and treacherous journey I am not shocked to see that there have been some casualties. I wish I could say I was, but the Quest for the Dark Tower has claimed many of lives. Aye, so it has. We lost one to demon sex, one to Japanese comics, one who ran so far ahead of us without looking back and one just kind of backed slowly away\u2026 ( I get that last one a lot\u2026I can\u2019t imagine why!) But as we have lost some, we have also gained so *My shiny new updated review for my re-read* As I look back on our long and treacherous journey I am not shocked to see that there have been some casualties. I wish I could say I was, but the Quest for the Dark Tower has claimed many of lives. Aye, so it has. We lost one to demon sex, one to Japanese comics, one who ran so far ahead of us without looking back and one just kind of backed slowly away\u2026 ( I get that last one a lot\u2026I can\u2019t imagine why!) But as we have lost some, we have also gained some. And we have one who has tried her best to keep up but is now playing catch up instead. Dastardly Dan was by far my hardest battle. I think I would have had an easier time pulling the teeth of a toddler while stealing the poor thing\u2019s candy too. I thought for a while he wasn't going to commit but in the end I managed to gently persuade him into it. Clearly, this is a victory. 4 stars from Dan is not an easy feat! Evgeny decided to join us for this adventure! There is also, of course, Rootin' Tootin' Pistol Packin' Ass Whuppin\u2019 Virgin Blood Drinkin' Delee , Jumpin\u2019 Jeff and our favorite newbie, Black Jackin\u2019 Jason ! This book is one of my all-time favorites. It is so beautifully written and so intricate. As it has been explained in 827320821 other reviews, this is a story within a story within a story. Roland and his Ka-Tet are waiting out a Starkblast and Jake wants to hear a story from Roland\u2019s childhood. Roland obliges and explains what happened to him after leaving Mejis. His father sends him on a quest- a quest believed to be a bunch of smoke and mirrors; a skin-man is terrorizing a nearby town and he sends Roland and some friends to investigate to get them out of his hair. But when Roland gets there he meets Bill- a terrified child whose whole family was brutally murdered and eaten(for the most part) by the alleged skin-man. While Roland waits for suspects to be gathered he decides to tell Bill a story. This story was one that is older than time itself, according to Roland, a tale told to Roland by his own mother. The name of this tale you ask? Why, the Wind Through the Keyhole, of course! \u201cOnce upon a bye, before your grandfather\u2019s grandfather was born, on the edge of an unexplored wilderness called the Endless Forest, there lived a boy named Tim\u201d And so begins my most treasured adventure. Wind tells us about Tim Stoutheart. Tim must go on a quest of his own into the deepest parts of the forest in hopes of finding some answers\u2026 Will he find what he\u2019s looking for? Will he be able to get back to his poor mother in time? Is the magic real? Are the dragons really gone? And what truly happened to Maerlyn? But more importantly, will we find out what happened to Bill\u2019s family? Is the skin-man truly able to change from one animal skin to another? Or is it just some sick twisted game for a bored mine-worker? Will the killer be brought to justice? And not to be forgotten- will our favorite Ka-Tet be able to withstand the wind of the Starkblast? I know that not all of my Tet was originally on board to read this book with me but I am glad that the ones who chose to did. Sharing a favorite book is by far one of the greatest feelings in the world. And the icing on top is when they love it\u2026even if they don\u2019t love it as much as I do! I do understand that my love obsession over certain books/series is a taaaad ridiculous sometimes. But there are times that books change who you are as a person. And this is one of those books. I\u2019ll leave you with a few of my favorite quotes. \u201cIn the end, the wind takes everything, doesn't it? And why not? Why other? If the sweetness of our lives did not depart, there would be no sweetness at all.\u201d> \u201cA person\u2019s never too old for stories. Man and boy, girl and woman, we live for them.\u201d And lastly, \u201cTime is a keyhole, he thought as he looked up at the stars. Yes, I think so. We sometimes bend and peer through it. And the wind we feel on our cheeks when we do - the wind that blows through the keyhole- is the breath of all the living universe.\u201d ...more Sigh. Well, it's finished. I will now try and express some of my deep disappointments here even though it will hurt me to do so. Kemper's review captures much of what frustrated me and left me feeling cheated by the whole affair. To be promised another Dark Tower installment and offered this underwhelming book in its place, so loosely tethered to the source material as to feel as if someone else wrote it, a comical pastiche in parts that tries too hard to be Dark Tower worthy -- well, it just le Sigh. Well, it's finished. I will now try and express some of my deep disappointments here even though it will hurt me to do so. Kemper's review captures much of what frustrated me and left me feeling cheated by the whole affair. To be promised another Dark Tower installment and offered this underwhelming book in its place, so loosely tethered to the source material as to feel as if someone else wrote it, a comical pastiche in parts that tries too hard to be Dark Tower worthy -- well, it just leaves a girl wanting to cry. I guess I should have read the dust jacket more closely. Maybe if I had gone into this knowing full well that this IS NOT a Dark Tower story, but rather a bedtime story from Roland's youth (ripped from the pages of Magic Tales of the Eld ) my disappointment could have been more tempered. As it stands, we get a paltry 35 pages of Roland, Jake, Susannah, Eddie and Oy (that's not even a story -- it's just used as a framing device for the rest of the book). We get about 100 pages of a Young Roland Adventure -- a monster of the week story that reminded me of Sam and Dean Winchester and an episode of Supernatural set in Mid-World (awesome idea and if Stephen King ever wants to write the Winchesters into the Dark Tower landscape I would probably die from fangirl shock syndrome). In this context however, it didn't work for me. I'm not the biggest fan of Young Roland anyway, and Young Roland in the first person is barely recognizable. It could have been anyone telling that story. The remaining 160 or so pages is a fairytale featuring a young boy on a quest to save his mother, that may be vaguely set in Mid-World, but has so very little to do with ANYTHING Dark Tower or ka-tet as to leave one itchy and sore. It's a pleasing enough story, but all while I was reading it, all I could think about was 'the gang' and wishing I were back with them, walking with them, adventuring with them. When Stephen King announced he had another Dark Tower story to tell, I believed him, why wouldn't I? It made sense to me that there would be LOADS of smaller stories of ka-tet adventures that did not make it into the 7 book magnum opus, but nevertheless deserve to be told anyway. I want those stories, dammit! Pretty pleeeeeeease , can't I have those stories? ...more It was good to be back in Midworld, if only for a short visit. This book is three stories in one, and those looking for an expansion of the quest for the Tower will be disappointed. Only the frame story contains Roland and his ka-tet from our world. Roland tells Jake, Eddie, and Susannah a tale from his days as a young gunslinger, but even that story is just another frame for the true story: The Wind Through the Keyhole, a fairytale Roland's mother told him when he was a young boy. The fairytale It was good to be back in Midworld, if only for a short visit. This book is three stories in one, and those looking for an expansion of the quest for the Tower will be disappointed. Only the frame story contains Roland and his ka-tet from our world. Roland tells Jake, Eddie, and Susannah a tale from his days as a young gunslinger, but even that story is just another frame for the true story: The Wind Through the Keyhole, a fairytale Roland's mother told him when he was a young boy. The fairytale tells the story of young Tim Ross, who must brave a dark forest, a possible encounter with a dragon, magic, and worst of all, an abusive stepfather--all during a quest to save his mother. The story is beautiful, magical, and terrifying, and Constant Readers will quickly recognize The Covenant Man for who he really is. I am both happy and sad to say that this is far better than the last three \"official\" books in the Dark Tower series. It's a shame that King didn't wait for inspiration to strike before concluding Roland's quest. \"The Wind Through the Keyhole\" is proof that he still has plenty of brilliant stories to tell, and that he is at his best when he writes for himself, not out of obligation to his impatient fans. I would welcome a dozen more of these Midworld tales from one of the greatest storytellers of our time. ...more .... Uummmmm. What do I say? For as long as I've been on GR, I've seen the debate on the Dark Tower. Which story era is more enjoyable? The \"present day (sorta)\" ka-tet of Roland, Susannah, Eddie, Jake, and Oy. Or the \"Young Roland\" era when he ran with Alain, Cuthbert, and Jamie? So as I'm about to start this book, I find out that many of the \"present day\" crews are disappointed because we get a little time with the ka-tet, only to have the story shift back in time with Roland telling another sto .... Uummmmm. What do I say? For as long as I've been on GR, I've seen the debate on the Dark Tower. Which story era is more enjoyable? The \"present day (sorta)\" ka-tet of Roland, Susannah, Eddie, Jake, and Oy. Or the \"Young Roland\" era when he ran with Alain, Cuthbert, and Jamie? So as I'm about to start this book, I find out that many of the \"present day\" crews are disappointed because we get a little time with the ka-tet, only to have the story shift back in time with Roland telling another story of his youth, much like Wizard & Glass. That book seems to be either a least favorite or a most favorite with everyone. With me, it was a most favorite. So while they were lamenting the return to the early Roland days, I was excited. But in the end, Ka got me too. King pulled a double switch on us, giving us a little Roland story within the Ka-tet story, only to have THAT one shift to a storytelling situation about a kid we never heard of from even further back. And I'm like, wtf? It's ok for a little bit, but it takes up half the damn book. The actual story \"The Wind Through the Keyhole\" is this thing, a fable about a kid disguised and sold as a Dark Tower novel. Ok, so there are some Midworld references and sayings and society stuff built in, so I can see that. It was Midworldian. It was rather interesting to see some stuff in the long ago, before the world moved on. But if it's always like that, I can see why it moved on. It was boring. That story didn't even feel like a King story. It wasn't bad. It started out alright. By the end it was even engaging. But the middle slogged on quite a bit to the point that I found my mind drifting. Then we switch back to Young Roland and get a quick wrap up on that story, which was very intriguing and enjoyable. And finally, we switch back up to modern Roland and Ka-tet, getting a wrap up on it too. Which wasn't a wrap up as much as a \"ok, we're done screwing around, let's get on with it\" that leads into Book 5. Crap, it was like reading Inception . Only not as good. Half this book is 5-star material (Young Roland story, Modern Roland interlude). The other half of the book is 3-star (with some boring 2-star fairy chasing in the middle). We'll average it out and call it 4. I'm being generous, but it IS a Dark Tower related book. I won't call it part of the main series though. It's an extra, like The Little Sisters of Eluria or the graphic novel series. ETA (1/27/2013): The more this book has settled in, the more I am bothered by my overly generous 4-star review. It simply doesn't deserve it. A 4-star should not leave a bad taste in my mouth 8 months after I've finished it. It's worth reading, but simply does not measure up to the rest of the series, period. ...more As a bridge between Wizard and Glass & Wolves of the Calla , this book couldn't be more perfect. It draws on the dark, down-to-earth nostalgia of growing up in a harsh, mean world that Wizard did beautifully, but it also introduces the bat-shit crazy, heady material of alternate dimensions and dense mythos that Wolves began introducing in its later pages. So it may not move the overall plot forward, but it's not supposed to. That plot already ended eight years ago. This is a bridge book. A bo As a bridge between Wizard and Glass & Wolves of the Calla , this book couldn't be more perfect. It draws on the dark, down-to-earth nostalgia of growing up in a harsh, mean world that Wizard did beautifully, but it also introduces the bat-shit crazy, heady material of alternate dimensions and dense mythos that Wolves began introducing in its later pages. So it may not move the overall plot forward, but it's not supposed to. That plot already ended eight years ago. This is a bridge book. A book meant for newcomers to the series to read as The Dark Tower 4.5, and in that head-space, it's up there with the best of King's work. ...more 3.5 Stars Believe it or not, there was a time when I hadn't read the Dark Tower series... but we don't talk about that. It's a painful time in my history, and polite company lets me keep my shame to myself. But I mention it because since stepping foot into the Tower multiverse, everything changed. I thought I was a Stephen King fan until I read the Dark Tower series, but I had no idea how much I could love King and his books. I adore this series. No other series or book can claim a higher spot i 3.5 Stars Believe it or not, there was a time when I hadn't read the Dark Tower series... but we don't talk about that. It's a painful time in my history, and polite company lets me keep my shame to myself. But I mention it because since stepping foot into the Tower multiverse, everything changed. I thought I was a Stephen King fan until I read the Dark Tower series, but I had no idea how much I could love King and his books. I adore this series. No other series or book can claim a higher spot in my heart (not even Harry Potter, though that's a very close second), so when I learned that there would be a new book in the series, I SQUEE'd all over the damn place. Messy clean-up, but so worth it. Dark Tower is bittersweet. It is. But that's one of my favorite things about King; he makes it real. So I couldn't wait, nay... COULD. NOT. WAIT. to read the shit out of this book and finally see the ka-tet again. To go on another adventure with them, to see what this new interlude holds... despite knowing ka-shume is coming down the path of the beam for them. But then... I admit to feeling a bit cheated after I started. Maybe that's not fair, probably not, because had I read the book description, I'd have known that likely wasn't going to be what I'd get... But those of you who know me well, those who share my khef, do it please ya, will know that I wouldn't want to know, that I'd want to just go where Ka's wind blows. And so I did... but I can't help wanting more of Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy. As a ka-tet book, low marks for this one because there's just so little of them here... but as a Mid-World/multiverse book, high marks, because there's a lot here in that regard, and it's quite interesting to piece together. What we have here is a story within a story within a story. Not my favorite thing. I love Wizard and Glass, but the Mejis flashback storyline is long. W&G is my least favorite of the series for this reason, and I always get to a point where I'm ready for the Young Roland story to be done so I can get back to Present Roland. But saying it's my least favorite is not saying much, because every book in the series is fantastic in its own way. So coming on the heels of Wizard and Glass, in internal story setting order, is The Wind Through the Keyhole, where our ka-tet takes shelter from a starkblast and has another episode from Roland's seemingly endless cache of Adventure Stories From My Youth and Other Relevant Tales from Before The World Moved On. The first story Roland tells is of being sent on another mission by his father to take care of what's rumored to be a Skin-Man (a shapeshifter) terrorizing one of the baronies. Within this story is the story from which this book takes its title, which is the story of Tim Ross and his encounter with the Covenant Man, whose horse is called Blackie. Just sayin'. This story ties into both the Young Roland story, and the Present Roland story... in different ways, which was interesting. These two stories make up the bulk of the book, which is short (for King) to begin with. But these are interesting, particularly Tim's The Wind Through The Keyhole, because of how other multiverse books might, and probably do, connect with it. I counted quite a few references to other books in the three stories, including Eyes of the Dragon, The Talisman, and Desperation, just to name a few. I won't go into much more detail, since everyone should read it for themselves. Overall for me, this was worth the read, although my heart still wanted more of Roland, Eddie, Susannah, Jake, and Oy. Maybe... Maybe Gan will bless King with another Dark Tower book? A girl can dream... ...more A wonderful entry into the Dark Tower series that King supposedly completed in 2004. Think of this as DT 4.5, after Glass and before Wolves. We don't spend much time with the Ka-tet, as Roland tells them a story of his past while they take shelter from a storm (a \"starkblast\"--great imagery behind that name). As Roland tells the tale of hunting a shifter in a small town, King then takes it further and tells a story WITHIN the story, that of a boy who must attempt to save his mother's life. It's A wonderful entry into the Dark Tower series that King supposedly completed in 2004. Think of this as DT 4.5, after Glass and before Wolves. We don't spend much time with the Ka-tet, as Roland tells them a story of his past while they take shelter from a storm (a \"starkblast\"--great imagery behind that name). As Roland tells the tale of hunting a shifter in a small town, King then takes it further and tells a story WITHIN the story, that of a boy who must attempt to save his mother's life. It's this middle story that takes up the bulk of the book and it too was just gorgeously written. A great addition to the Dark Tower series. ...more Does this guy ever stop? I sure hope not. Live forever, Stevie baby, live forever. 3.5 stars I've been plowing along with The Dark Tower series for a little while now, and it has been a love/hate relationship at best, though more love than hate lately. Sometimes, however, you just stumble upon the perfect book; it has the right character with the right story for you at just the right time of your life. The Wind Through the Keyhole is that book for me I suppose, and if you are mesmerized by Roland the Gunslinger and the world he grew to manhood in, this book will also be that for you. It I've been plowing along with The Dark Tower series for a little while now, and it has been a love/hate relationship at best, though more love than hate lately. Sometimes, however, you just stumble upon the perfect book; it has the right character with the right story for you at just the right time of your life. The Wind Through the Keyhole is that book for me I suppose, and if you are mesmerized by Roland the Gunslinger and the world he grew to manhood in, this book will also be that for you. It will enfold you in its fairy tale within a fairy tale, transporting you to a world that might be and causing our own to disappear into this other place. And when it finally ends, you will sit there with it in your hands, feeling thankful that King took the time to revisit this place and add to the myth of Roland of Gilead. ...more I have read a few negative reviews of this book that make excellent points about why this is a disappointing addition to the Dark Tower canon. I can't really disagree with them. And yet I enjoyed this story. The difference, I think, lies more with my expectations than the execution. My favorite part of the Dark Tower is the world King slowly assembled over the course of the series, and the way he eventually tied it in to a dozen or so of his other novels, creating a vast meta-fictional landscape. I have read a few negative reviews of this book that make excellent points about why this is a disappointing addition to the Dark Tower canon. I can't really disagree with them. And yet I enjoyed this story. The difference, I think, lies more with my expectations than the execution. My favorite part of the Dark Tower is the world King slowly assembled over the course of the series, and the way he eventually tied it in to a dozen or so of his other novels, creating a vast meta-fictional landscape. In fact, I'd go so far as to say that I care more about the world than the characters -- I care about the characters quite a lot. But the parts I really like reading are the weird little details of this world that has moved on: rusting heaps of leftover technology, unfamiliar brands of soda, giant bear robots, insane sentient trains. That stuff. I went into The Wind Through the Keyhole knowing it was going to be a filler novel. I read that King believed it could stand alone, so I was pretty sure it wasn't going to offer up much detail on the ka-tet's between-book adventures. And in fact, I read the main series so long ago I... kind of forgot there was any discontinuity there (me and Stephen King both, I guess). So my wishlist for this book included one item, which was any Dark Tower lore, but I wasn't expecting it, because I knew it was some kind of story-within-a-story fairytale thing. And then, I got some! Because within these nested tales are more details on the Guardians of the Beam and North Central Positronics, and there's even one of those sympathetic artificial intelligences that I find so endearing (even when they are crazy and murderous -- PATRICIA + BLAINE 4-EVER!). This time, I'm feeling pathos for an ancient GPS*. * Never mind that it doesn't make much sense that this fairytale, ostensibly from an old book that Roland's mother used to read to him, would include incredibly specific details about the Crimson King-esque shenanigans going on throughout the series. More oblique Charlie the Choo-Choo-style nods would present the information in a far more internally consistent manner. But then again, we wouldn't have any scenes with your friendly neighborhood sentient GPS, so... Yeah, ok, so the rest of the book isn't the best. The framing sections with Roland, Eddie, Jake, et al. are cursory at best, and almost feel like fan-fiction (though to be totally honest, I kind of feel that way about everything in the series after the knock on the gates of Oz, especially the parts of book 5 with the Harry Potter exploding snitches and the Doctors Doom with lightsabers), but it's still fun to peek in on those characters again while they are all still, you know, (view spoiler) [alive (hide spoiler) ] . The second-level framing device (stick with me), featuring Young Roland, pleased me more than I expected, considering I kind of hated the flashback-heavy fourth book in the series. It helped that it was short, action-packed, and not a story of angsty teen love. I still have no idea what is up with the fall of Gilead and the Battle of Jericho Hill and all that jazz though. I guess I have to read the comics for that. So, yeah. Context. If you go into this one expecting an honest-to-Gan Dark Tower novel, you'll be bummed, because it really isn't one. It kind of seems like it took King about a week to write, and he just had fun messing around with it (which doesn't bode well for his sequel to The Shining). If you are a reader who has spent $25 on the hardcover and invested a chunk of time reading it, that may not be enough for you. If you are me, and borrowed your brother's audiobook copy and listened to it at 3x speed on your phone, maybe it will be. ...more The Wind Through the Keyhole was a very enjoyable listen, and Stephen King read it to me. He's not as good as his usual narrator, but he's still a pretty damn good storyteller (in the reading aloud sense, as well as the writing sense). With this 4.5 installment of The Dark Tower, King weaves a story inside a story inside a story, with each one drawing me in. This was a solid 5 star read almost all the way through. Working inwards out, the fable of Tim Stoutheart is near perfect (view spoiler) [ w The Wind Through the Keyhole was a very enjoyable listen, and Stephen King read it to me. He's not as good as his usual narrator, but he's still a pretty damn good storyteller (in the reading aloud sense, as well as the writing sense). With this 4.5 installment of The Dark Tower, King weaves a story inside a story inside a story, with each one drawing me in. This was a solid 5 star read almost all the way through. Working inwards out, the fable of Tim Stoutheart is near perfect (view spoiler) [ with the tiger turning into Merlin being a bit meh (hide spoiler) ] . The Covenant Man is an incarnation of a familiar villain, and one that is sunning, sinister and far more enjoyable than his tittering version in other books. I'm not sure why, but the saddest part of this story for me was (view spoiler) [ when King describes the death of the dragon who had spared Tim's life after the boy jumped on his head; a dragon breathing fire to fight back a fierce ice storm in an ultimately futile effort just seems about the saddest thing I can think of... or at least want to think of; sadly poetic and very depressing (hide spoiler) ] Then there's the tale of Roland's youth, spent chasing the Skin Man with a rather bland character, Jaime De Curry. Perhaps trying to distinguish Jaime from Cuthbert and Alain, King gave the boy almost no personality. He didn't matter to me and so he didn't matter to the story, so I take no points off for that. I only take points off for the ending - after a good, strong build up and investigation, the anticipation great and the suspense nail-biting, the big reveal and rushed ending was a bit of a let down - good, but not King great. As for the main storyline, we don't get much beyond a stark blast, but it plays out well and gives more insight into the characters. Given that this book was written after the next book chronologically story-wise, I didn't expect much to happen in that regard. All in all, a darn good book that earns a ranking equal to its numbering: 4.5 ...more Adding this with some trepidation and suspicion, as the last two books in this series were so bad. This appears to be a prequel and could be better. But if Stephen King appears as a character in it, all bets are off. Updating this on 4/29/12: I read this today. So much better than the last two Dark Tower books. This one takes place in the middle of things, between books 4 and 5. It is a novella within a story within yet another story. It was a fine quick read, and nice to spend another spell with Adding this with some trepidation and suspicion, as the last two books in this series were so bad. This appears to be a prequel and could be better. But if Stephen King appears as a character in it, all bets are off. Updating this on 4/29/12: I read this today. So much better than the last two Dark Tower books. This one takes place in the middle of things, between books 4 and 5. It is a novella within a story within yet another story. It was a fine quick read, and nice to spend another spell with Roland and his ka-tet. ...more This book can be read as a standalong as this book has nothing to do with the main story of the Dark Tower series, but more of a black story as Wizard and Glass and The Dark Tower Graphic Novels are as a black story. This right after Wizard and Glass as Roland and Company hides from a coming story as Roland tells a story about his past where he brings his mother, and how he hunts down a Magican known as the Skin-Man, who can change into different forms of animals at night, killing people. While This book can be read as a standalong as this book has nothing to do with the main story of the Dark Tower series, but more of a black story as Wizard and Glass and The Dark Tower Graphic Novels are as a black story. This right after Wizard and Glass as Roland and Company hides from a coming story as Roland tells a story about his past where he brings his mother, and how he hunts down a Magican known as the Skin-Man, who can change into different forms of animals at night, killing people. While on this hunt he stops, and tells a second back story of a fairy tale that his mother told him named The Wind Through the Keyhole, which has to do with the Skill-Man. I'm not a real big fan of the black story and the side track in the Dark Tower as Wizard and Glass was my least favorite in the whole series. This book feels to me as something extra and quick that Stephen King came up with at the time back in 2007 along with his next book, Dr. Sleep the sequel to The Shining, which is the reason the book came out so quickly after his huge bestseller of last year, 11/22/63. Being something extra and quick I think is the reason the book is so short, does not include any interior artwork as it was in all the previous seven Dark Tower novel, and actually came out in a limited edition by Grant as it did before with all previous seven Dark Tower novel about two month before its actual release date. Overall, it was nice to visit the world of Mid-World and see Roland once again, but I really could done without this book. ...more Nothing short of amazing, this story within a story within a story. I want to say more, but for the time being, what a bittersweet feeling I'm left with. Having to say good-bye yet again to my beloved Oy, Jake, and Roland. Especially Oy. I sincerely hope there will be more revisits, journeys into the Dark Tower world. And what a journey it was! And for those wondering if they can read/ enjoy this book actually never having read The Dark Tower series. Here's your answer, in the form of a snippet Nothing short of amazing, this story within a story within a story. I want to say more, but for the time being, what a bittersweet feeling I'm left with. Having to say good-bye yet again to my beloved Oy, Jake, and Roland. Especially Oy. I sincerely hope there will be more revisits, journeys into the Dark Tower world. And what a journey it was! And for those wondering if they can read/ enjoy this book actually never having read The Dark Tower series. Here's your answer, in the form of a snippet scribed by The Man, The Legend himself, Stephen King, in the Foreward: \" Many of the people holding this book have followed the adventures of Roland and his band--his ka-tet-- for years, some of them from the very beginning. Others--and I hope there are many, newcomers and Constant Readers alike -- may ask, Can I read and enjoy this story if I haven't read the other Dark Towers books? My answer is yes, if you keep a few things in mind.\" He then goes on to describe a few key elements and happenings. And with that basic knowledge swirling about your noggin, you're ready to embark on the journey that is The Wind Through the Keyhole. ...more Imala sam malu nedoumicu oko toga da li da \"Vetar kroz klju\u010daonicu\" ostavim za kasnije i da odmah pre\u0111em na slede\u0107i nastavak \"Vukovi Kale\", ali sam prihvatila da je knjiga ozna\u010dena kao #4.5 od strane samog autora, te da \u0107u je svakako pro\u010ditati pre ili kasnije. Ve\u0107ina verovatno zna da je King \"Vetar kroz klju\u010daonicu\" napisao nakon \u0161to je zavr\u0161io serijal i u pogovoru on se osvr\u0107e na \u010ditaoce koji se do sada nisu susretali sa serijalom, a koji mo\u017eda \u017eele da pro\u010ditaju neki deo. Ako se zanemari zbunjen Imala sam malu nedoumicu oko toga da li da \"Vetar kroz klju\u010daonicu\" ostavim za kasnije i da odmah pre\u0111em na slede\u0107i nastavak \"Vukovi Kale\", ali sam prihvatila da je knjiga ozna\u010dena kao #4.5 od strane samog autora, te da \u0107u je svakako pro\u010ditati pre ili kasnije. Ve\u0107ina verovatno zna da je King \"Vetar kroz klju\u010daonicu\" napisao nakon \u0161to je zavr\u0161io serijal i u pogovoru on se osvr\u0107e na \u010ditaoce koji se do sada nisu susretali sa serijalom, a koji mo\u017eda \u017eele da pro\u010ditaju neki deo. Ako se zanemari zbunjenost i nejasno\u0107a vezane za protagoniste i samu radnju, ova knjiga bi bez problema mogla da predstavlja pri\u010du samu za sebe, sa tim da je u pitanju veliko \"ako\". Za one koji su upoznati sa serijalom, radnja najvi\u0161e podse\u0107a na predhodni deo, \"\u010carobnjak i staklo\" jer smo ponovo sa Rolandom i njegovim saputnicima koji i ovog puta slu\u0161aju pri\u010du iz Rolandove mladosti dok \u010dekaju da ledena oluja napolju pro\u0111e kako bi mogli da nastave put ka kuli. Zbunjenost mo\u017ee izazvati pri\u010da u pri\u010di koja je ponovo u pri\u010di - ne samo da pratimo Rolanda kako pripoveda o mladom sebi, ve\u0107 pratimo i mladog Rolanda kako pripoveda pri\u010du koju mu je majka \u010ditala nekada davno kada je on bio sasvim mali. Pri\u010da je, poga\u0111ate, upravo naslovljena sa \"Vetar kroz klju\u010daonicu\", a mladi Roland ovo pripoveda upla\u0161enom de\u010daku Bilu koji je upravo ostao bez oca usled pokolja od strane stvorenja koje je prozvano Ko\u017eni \u010dovek. \u0160ta je ta\u010dno to stvorenje koje svirepo ubija me\u0161tane Debarija i kako \u0107e ga D\u017eejmi de Kari i Roland spre\u010diti je na nama da saznamo. Doga\u0111aj se odvija neposredno nakon de\u0161avanja opisanih u delu \"\u010carobnjak i staklo\". Samo jedna stvar mi je iskreno zasmetala, a ona nema veze sa samom pri\u010dom. U pitanju je nedoslednost prevodilaca prilikom prevo\u0111enja imena gradova i li\u010dnih imena. Zar je zaista toliko te\u0161ko pogledati kako je kolega pre Vas preveo neko ili ne\u010dije ime ukoliko niste sigurni? Neka ne bude nesigurnost, jednostavno re\u010deno - bezveze je da tre\u0107i put \u010ditam razli\u010dit prevod imena istog lika. Ovako ne\u0161to svakako ne uti\u010de na kvalitet same pri\u010de, ali ostavlja negativni utisak bespotrebno. ...more I listened to the audio version of The Wind through the Keyhole, narrated by the author himself, which I think made it that little bit more special because Stephen King has one of those voices in more ways than one, that demands your attention as if you\u2019re listening to a master story-teller. Which you definitely are. The Wind through the Keyhole is a nail-biting story about the trials and tribulations of a young boy named Tim Ross, told to Roland by his mother as a young boy. Roland & his Ka- I listened to the audio version of The Wind through the Keyhole, narrated by the author himself, which I think made it that little bit more special because Stephen King has one of those voices in more ways than one, that demands your attention as if you\u2019re listening to a master story-teller. Which you definitely are. The Wind through the Keyhole is a nail-biting story about the trials and tribulations of a young boy named Tim Ross, told to Roland by his mother as a young boy. Roland & his Ka-tet are forced to hold up for a time when a starkblast storm decimates the path they travel and the gunslinger recounts an adventure from his younger days when he and Jamie DeCurry are sent to the small town Debaria to investigate and catch a Skin-man or Skin changer, terrorizing the community. A young boy barely escapes the Skin-man and Roland, more to comfort him, tells him the sad but gripping tale of The Wind through the Keyhole. In which young Tim is faced with tragedy, changing circumstance and the life changing visit of the Covenant Man. The Covenant Man is a man we\u2019ve all met before, a man of magic and he sets Tim on a path where he will face danger, revelation and the makings of a man, a gunslinger. So I guess this tale is a story within a story during a brief interlude in the main story, took some time to think about but how else could you describe it. This could easily be read as a stand-alone, it doesn\u2019t interrupt any story arcs but rather enhances the whole Dark Tower experience. And I do like stories of Roland\u2019s younger days. I am now 15 books into my target of reading the vast majority of the King\u2019s work, which by my count is 66 books including collections. Now that\u2019s a challenge worth doing. http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/... ...more This is a re-read for me, or to be accurate, a re-listen since I audio-ed this time. Originally I read it after the final Dark Tower installment because that\u2019s when it was published. I don\u2019t remember when I first re-read it, but probably on it\u2019s own. This time I read it, technically, out of order as well. I absolutely understand why it belongs after Wizard and Glass and for anyone reading the first time (now that they are all available) I would encourage that order. For those of experiencing it This is a re-read for me, or to be accurate, a re-listen since I audio-ed this time. Originally I read it after the final Dark Tower installment because that\u2019s when it was published. I don\u2019t remember when I first re-read it, but probably on it\u2019s own. This time I read it, technically, out of order as well. I absolutely understand why it belongs after Wizard and Glass and for anyone reading the first time (now that they are all available) I would encourage that order. For those of experiencing it again, I just don\u2019t think it matters. I listened out of order because I finished The Waste Lands and Wizard and Glass wasn\u2019t available at the library yet. Made no difference! This is just a lovely piece of filler that allows us a look at, not only, Mid-World of the past, but a young <---C>Roland Deschain</---C>. The more I read of Roland, the more deeply I fall in love with him. I know, I know. That sounds so wack. How do you fall in love with a character? You just do and I have. I can\u2019t say I am in love with Mid-World. I\u2019m not sure I really like the place at all. It\u2019s harsh and scary, but when you have knights like Sai Deschain to watch out for you, you just might be ok. For anyone who has read The Dark Tower Omnibus, this feels like more of the same. I am always happy to read fairy tales, legends and plain old yarns, especially those told through the fond eyes of memory. This particular tale is a fable, inside a tale, wrapped in a memory and as we peel the layers we find the heart of Roland inside. I don\u2019t even need the book ends of our Ka-tet to make this story worth a read. I\u2019d read it all on it\u2019s own. ...more As The Dark Tower 4.5, this book sits right at the point in the series where, for me, it all went downhill. Too much time passed between books back then and the characters stopped being who they were and started being who Stephen King was telling me they were. From Wolves of the Calla on, I could never shake the picture in my head of King sitting behind the words, plinking on about commalas and positronics and swapping consonants needlessly for apostrophes. When he (view spoiler) [wrote himself i As The Dark Tower 4.5, this book sits right at the point in the series where, for me, it all went downhill. Too much time passed between books back then and the characters stopped being who they were and started being who Stephen King was telling me they were. From Wolves of the Calla on, I could never shake the picture in my head of King sitting behind the words, plinking on about commalas and positronics and swapping consonants needlessly for apostrophes. When he (view spoiler) [wrote himself into the whole thing and put Roland and Jake at his actual car accident (hide spoiler) ] that was it for me. I read those books once and I plan to never read them again (although I do contend that the very ending of the series is the best thing King ever could've done). So this book becomes what it should be for me: a little story that I don't like as much as the first four books but I like better than the last three. I confess that I got frustrated & stopped reading the story within the story within the story (the real wind through the keyhole, that) & skipped ahead to see how it all turned out with the skin man. While I truly would've liked a lot more about teenage gunslinger Roland as opposed to Tim and his woes, when I did go back to Tim, it turned out better than I thought it would. Mainly this book is like an unexpected visit from a person I was friends with ages ago; we got together, talked for a bit about all the things we were into back in the day, and when they left I smiled fondly and got back to my real life. ...more El tiempo es un ojo de cerradura. S\u00ed, eso creo. A veces nos agachamos y atisbamos a su trav\u00e9s. Y el viento que entonces sentimos en la mejilla, el viento que sopla por la cerradura, es el aliento de todo el universo viviente. Un libro del cual me esperaba muy poco y me termin\u00f3 dando much\u00edsimo. Forma parte de la saga de La Torre Oscura pero no es indispensable para entender la misma. \u2014\u00bfY si me caigo? \u2014Grit\u00f3 Tim. Maerlyn se ri\u00f3. \u2014Tarde o temprano, todos lo hacemos. Es una novela conformada por h El tiempo es un ojo de cerradura. S\u00ed, eso creo. A veces nos agachamos y atisbamos a su trav\u00e9s. Y el viento que entonces sentimos en la mejilla, el viento que sopla por la cerradura, es el aliento de todo el universo viviente. Un libro del cual me esperaba muy poco y me termin\u00f3 dando much\u00edsimo. Forma parte de la saga de La Torre Oscura pero no es indispensable para entender la misma. \u2014\u00bfY si me caigo? \u2014Grit\u00f3 Tim. Maerlyn se ri\u00f3. \u2014Tarde o temprano, todos lo hacemos. Es una novela conformada por historias que cuenta Roland en medio de una tormenta. El mejor ambiente para contar historias. King nos sumerge en unos cuentos magn\u00edficos, que me encantaron de principio a fin y que son de aquellos que no se borran de nuestra memoria con facilidad: dejan una marca. Un hombre nunca es demasiado viejo para nutrirse de historias. Por ellas vivimos. Me gust\u00f3 mucho este libro. Lo recomiendo sin dudarlo. ...more Stephen King begins The Wind Through the Keyhole with a nod to Robin Furth and the gang at Marvel Comics. It's a fitting dedication since, with the exception of a narrative framing piece, this really could have (perhaps even should have) been a story arc in the comic series. That's not to say I disliked it, just that it really adds nothing of value or context to the overall Dark Tower saga. It's nice to revisit friends, and immeasurably comforting to fall back into the language of Mid-World (say Stephen King begins The Wind Through the Keyhole with a nod to Robin Furth and the gang at Marvel Comics. It's a fitting dedication since, with the exception of a narrative framing piece, this really could have (perhaps even should have) been a story arc in the comic series. That's not to say I disliked it, just that it really adds nothing of value or context to the overall Dark Tower saga. It's nice to revisit friends, and immeasurably comforting to fall back into the language of Mid-World (say thankee-sai), but it lacks the epic feel of the rest of the series. There's no advancement of the greater plot and, rather surprisingly, hardly anything in the way of meta-references or pop-culture trivia. It also suffers, of course, from being an after-the-fact addition to an already finished storyline - no matter how fantastic the Starkblast was, there was never any real sense of danger, since we know the characters all live through to the next book. Having said that, it's still Stephen King, it's still The Dark Tower, and it's still an enjoyable read - regardless of how it's told. Let's start with the framing narrative of Roland, Jake, Susannah, Eddie, and Oy. It's definitely nice to revisit the ka-tet in the days when it was whole and healthy, and comforting to spend some quality time alongside them. As for the Starkblast, it may have just been a convenient plot device to gather them together long enough for Roland to tell a story, but it's a force of nature worthy of Stephen King. The first story-within-the-story is that of Roland as a youth, sent by his father to investigate the murderous rampage of a skin-man. It's an interesting enough tale, and does illuminate a little of Roland's mental state following the death of his mother, but it's also the aspect that most feels 'lifted' from the comics. The skin-man had definite potential as a King monster, but it never really gets its moment to shine. Yes, we get to see the carnage it's left behind (the scene with the children at the farmhouse is especially chilling), but it feels as if King wasn't that interested in the final confrontation. Again, much like the Starkblast, the skin-man is ultimately a plot device designed to give young Roland a chance to tell a story of his own. It's this second story-within-a-story where the book really shines. Even though it has nothing to do with Roland or his ka-tet, it touches on several elements on the greater saga . . . and does, as the book's only real meta-reference, tie nicely to The Eyes of the Dragon. Part fairy tale and part epic quest adventure, Tim Southeart's tale could have carried the book on its own, with no need for the skin-man framing device. Here we get King's signature take on the family (and step-families) and the horrors of which human beings are capable. We also get an extended look into the more fantastic landscapes of Mid-World, it's mutated denizens, and the very real monsters living there (including faeries and dragons done as only King can do them). Tim's story also provides a new twist/tie to the Arthurian legends, finally weaving Merlin into the larger story in a scene that brings us back to the Starkblast, this time with a very real sense of danger to accompany it. Overall, a solid book with one particularly great story contained within it . . . and one scene at the very end, between Roland and Susannah, that does add just a little to his character. Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins ...more I finished reading the last page of The Dark Tower series on a flight into Bangor, in 2004. I cried. I had come to know Roland, Jake, Eddie, Susannah, and Oy very well over the course of my teenage years it was like losing a friend. The ending is so complete I never thought I\u2019d chance to see them again. But you can never say never with ol\u2019 Uncle Steve. He\u2019s got a lot of tricks in his bag, that one. This is just to say I was quite happy to hear he\u2019d written another novel set in the Dark Tower uni I finished reading the last page of The Dark Tower series on a flight into Bangor, in 2004. I cried. I had come to know Roland, Jake, Eddie, Susannah, and Oy very well over the course of my teenage years it was like losing a friend. The ending is so complete I never thought I\u2019d chance to see them again. But you can never say never with ol\u2019 Uncle Steve. He\u2019s got a lot of tricks in his bag, that one. This is just to say I was quite happy to hear he\u2019d written another novel set in the Dark Tower universe. The Wind Through the Keyhole fits, chronologically (though, chronology in the DT world is not what it used to be) somewhere between books 4 and 5. Roland and his ka-tet have just left the Emerald City and are heading along the path of the Beam toward Calla Bryn Sturgis when their precocious four-legged companion, the billy-bumbler, Oy, begins to act skittish. The animal senses a \u201cStarkblast,\u201d a super-storm that will shortly freeze the surrounding countryside. They seek refuge inside an old building and there, to pass the time, Roland tells them the story of the time he and his pal Jamie went in search of a shape-shifter that was killing lots of folken years ago. But there\u2019s more. Within that story of the hunt for the shape-shifter, we are treated to a fairytale about a boy named Tim who must go on a perilous journey to save his mother\u2019s eyesight. It\u2019s a story-inside-a-story-inside-a-story, the Inception of the Dark Tower saga. And it fucking rocked my socks off. One little spoiler for longtime fans: we get to see the man in black again, in all his evil glory. I\u2019ve said it before and I stand by it: King is at his very best when he\u2019s writing about the Dark Tower. There are no boundaries to that world because it\u2019s an entire universe he\u2019s created within his head, a universe of King stories. It\u2019s King at his most free. ...more I adored every word, and it definitely qualifies as a DT novel. It just left me wanting more...more of Roland and his Ka-Tet, more of the sighe (she's an awesome character, BTW.) Maybe I was anticipating too much because I'm used to being spoiled by King, and he very rarely disappoints, IMO, but I also wanted to know more about Roland's youthful adventures, young Bill Streeter, Tim \"Stoutheart,\" and a things or two more that I won't mention here. I think there are more questions than answers.. I' I adored every word, and it definitely qualifies as a DT novel. It just left me wanting more...more of Roland and his Ka-Tet, more of the sighe (she's an awesome character, BTW.) Maybe I was anticipating too much because I'm used to being spoiled by King, and he very rarely disappoints, IMO, but I also wanted to know more about Roland's youthful adventures, young Bill Streeter, Tim \"Stoutheart,\" and a things or two more that I won't mention here. I think there are more questions than answers.. I'm not sure if that's necessarily a bad or good thing, it just is, I suppose. ...more", "Title": "The Wind Through the Keyhole"},
