{"Comments": "I have to say I found a new author, <---A>Chelsea Cain</---A>.<---F> She writes so well</---F>. This book is definately different than other mysteries. The characters are very well developed. I was not expecting the outcome of what the book was about. This surely isn't for the faint of heart. It has to do with serial killers. Gretchen Lowell is a killer. She tortures her victims then kills them. She also has victims killing others, she had several of them. <---C>Archie Sheridan</---C> becomes one of her victims. She tortures him for t I have to say I found a new author, Chelsea Cain. She writes so well. This book is definately different than other mysteries. The characters are very well developed. I was not expecting the outcome of what the book was about. This surely isn't for the faint of heart. It has to do with serial killers. Gretchen Lowell is a killer. She tortures her victims then kills them. She also has victims killing others, she had several of them. Archie Sheridan becomes one of her victims. She tortures him for ten days,<---M> cutting his skin</---M>, then seduces him. She let's Archie go and turns herself in. Gretchen then ends up in prison. Archie is changed into a different person and is hooked on Vicodens. He is now a cop and is in a search for the dead bodies that Gretchen has killed. He ends up going on many trips to prison to talk to Gretchen to find out about where the bodies are located. Archie thinks Gretchen is beautiful and can not get his mind off of her. There are lots of missing girls and Archie is trying to find the killer that Gretchen is using to torture more victims that she wants killed. The next victim Archie is close too and he has to be fast before she ends up dead. Will Archie ever get Gretchen out of his mind? Will these tortured victims ever come to an end? Most mystery series have two names of detectives, this mystery is different in the fact that Gretchen Lowell is the killer and Archie Sheridan is the cop detective to solve the case. Chelsea Cain makes this subject matter very interesting and I couldn't put it down. There were lots of twists, which made it a turn pager. A Good Reads friend recommended me this series. I was looking for a series that was similar to the Smoky Barret Series and it was very close. I am looking forward to reading the next book which is Sweetheart. ...more Serial killer stories are a dime a dozen but Chelsea Cain's HeartSick is a cut above the rest (<---B>no pun intended</---B>). Not only is this novel a real page turner, but it's also very well-written with characters you believe in and sympathize with, even when they're doing things you suspect are definitely not in their best interests. The book opens with Detective Archie Sheridan's moments-too-late realization that he's fallen into the clutches of a serial killer, the beautiful, sociopathic Gretchen Low Serial killer stories are a dime a dozen but Chelsea Cain's HeartSick is a cut above the rest (no pun intended). Not only is this novel a real page turner, but it's also very well-written with characters you believe in and sympathize with, even when they're doing things you suspect are definitely not in their best interests. The book opens with Detective Archie Sheridan's moments-too-late realization that he's fallen into the clutches of a serial killer, the beautiful, sociopathic Gretchen Lowell who has tortured to death 199 people and plans to make Archie number 200. She drugs and imprisons Archie, then begins a brutal and flinch-worthy regimen of torture---and this is just in the first chapter. Archie knows he is probably going to die. He counts the days until he's either found alive by his task force, or finally murdered. Flash forward a few years (chapter two) and we discover that Archie did actually survive his ten-day ordeal at the hands of a psychopath---only after Gretchen called 9-1-1 and turned herself in. But did Archie really survive? His life in shambles and addicted to pain killers, Archie returns to detective work a very different man, breaking his work hiatus only because a new serial killer, one targeting sophomore girls, is on the loose in Portland. The chilling Gretchen Lowell sits behind bars in a maximum security prison, but every Sunday Archie goes to visit her and in a sick and symbiotic relationship, Gretchen reveals the location of more of the bodies she dumped years past while continuing to torture Archie mentally. As the current serial killer investigation team rushes to find the new murderer, Archie allows a young reporter, Susan Ward, to shadow him and write exclusives on the \"hero cop\" who has returned (addicted, as Susan soon learns) to the force. Susan has her own issues, Archie his, and the imprisoned Gretchen Lowell seems deadlier than ever as she manipulates the world from behind bars. I was surpised at how absolutely satisfying this book was. I'd read and enjoyed Cain's first novel, a Nancy Drew parody for adults entitled Confessions of a Teen Sleuth which is just about as entirely different from HeartSick as one could possibly get, and I wasn't sure if I'd enjoy her second book. I did, I did, I did. And now I will be encouraging more people to go out and enjoy it too. I just looked up Chelsea Cain on amazon.com and there is an interview with her about HeartSick in which I learned that she has already written a second book in this series. Normally I'm not a series reader, but I will definitely be looking for Sweetheart when it becomes available. ...more Posted to The Literary Lawyer.ca A Guilty 5 Stars I enjoyed <+++>Heartsick</+++> as much as any thriller I have read in a few years. The main character was damaged and broken but managed to be effective and rational. The counterpoint was the jailed serial killer Gretchen who was pulling on some psychological and mental strings in Archie's mind and soul. I found it to be engaging, entertaining and chilling. That said, there are issues with novel. The \"holier than thou\" reviewer in me want to give this fo Posted to The Literary Lawyer.ca A Guilty 5 Stars I enjoyed <+++>Heartsick</+++> as much as any thriller I have read in a few years. The main character was damaged and broken but managed to be effective and rational. The counterpoint was the jailed serial killer Gretchen who was pulling on some psychological and mental strings in Archie's mind and soul. I found it to be engaging, entertaining and chilling. That said, there are issues with novel. The \"holier than thou\" reviewer in me want to give this four stars but the reader inside of me says that I enjoyed this too much to give it less than for stars. The reader inside of me won out, or maybe Gretchen has ahold of me as well...... Plot Outline When I saw this was a cop and serial killer story, I immediately assumed we were going to have a Silence of the Lambs relationship. Thankfully, that is not the case and in fact, the author takes some time to poke fun at that notion. In the story, a series of young girls have been murdered. As they appear to be related, Archie Sheridan is called out of a medical leave to lead a taskforce to solve this crime. Archie has previously lead this same task force for 10 years as he sought to catch another notorious serial killer. We immediately learn that Archie was captured and tortured by that serial killer. He survived the ordeal and the serial killer was put behind bars. Despite surving, the reader knows that the Killer, Gretchen Lowell, is still exerting some control over Archie. The detail of this are not immediately clear. Given the high profile nature of the case and Archie's history, Susan Ward, a reporter, is tasked to follow Archie and write a profile on him, his past history, and his current condition. The investigation becomes personal for all parties involved and the storylines coalesce in an exciting and original finish. The Good Into the Mind of a Killer and Victim This story dealt exceptionally well with psychological condition of the characters. As the story progresses, we learn bits and pieces of Archie's experience at the hands of Gretchen Lowell. As this occurs, we get begin to understand his current mental condition while we get a glimpse into the depraved and broken mind of Gretchen Lowell. Since we are talking about Gretchen, I have to say that she is one of the most interesting characters I have read in recent memory. Although it takes a while for us to be introduced to this character, we glimpse her legacy and personality thorough Archie. When we do meet her, she is everything we hoped for. She is well drawn, well imagined and both charming and frightening, intoxicating and nauseating. I have high hopes for this series and these characters make for exciting counterparts. No Plot Abandonment While I was absorbed in the Gretchen and Archie storyline, I was equally interested in the murder mystery which was the parallel storyline. The other characters that moved this story along were interesting and well drawn. The character of Susan Ward, the reporter, was well drawn and interesting. Portions of the story were told from her perspective which made for multiple interesting perspectives to the issues. The subplot, which was the relationship between Archie and Gretchen, was nicely balanced with main plot allowing each to be dealt with and understood. The Bad I Don't Believe You Some of the plots elements were difficult to believe. Multiple times I found myself saying that I couldn't see the character doing that and some of the elements felt contrived. Even the initial set up (a reporter following around the lead investigator while he was searching for a serial killer) was contrived and hard to believe. Additionally, the final reveal of the main plot felt a bit contrived. While some readers will have issue with some plot development, expertly drawn characters trumped any plot issues for me. Final Thoughts This is not a perfect novel but it is a very entertaining novel. The flaws were completely overshadowed by my enjoyment of the story and the characters. If the rest of the series is written in such an entertaining way, this will threaten to become a favorite series. *Fingers Crossed* It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested. I make an effort to give you the information so you can make an informed decision before reading. *Disclaimer* I do not take note or count the occurrences of adult language as I read. I am simply giving approximations. Scale 1 - Lowest 5 - Highest Sex  - 2 There were a few sexual elements in the story. One character is actively involved in an affair. There is some sex between them but it is not graphic. There are other sexualized elements but nothing is graphic or explicit. Language  - 3 There is a moderate amount adult language. Moderate usage of mild obscenities and low to moderate use of the f-word. Violence  - 4 Violence is a pervasive theme and some elements are graphic. There are multiple murder and the descriptions of the condition of the bodies is at time explicit. There is extensive use of flashbacks to Archie's capture and it involves elements of torture. This occurs throughout the book and it is graphic at times. The fact is, there is violence or descriptions of violence in most every chapter. If you don't like violence, you won't like this book ...more Serial killer thrillers are a dime a dozen anymore, but this one added just enough of a twist to make it halfway interesting. It will also make you cringe slightly whenever you have to handle a bottle of drain cleaner for a while after reading. The main mystery is pretty conventional with a quirky female reporter getting pulled into a police investigation. If that's all there was too it, then it wouldn't be worth reading. However, the more interesting portion revolves around the relationship betwe Serial killer thrillers are a dime a dozen anymore, but this one added just enough of a twist to make it halfway interesting. It will also make you cringe slightly whenever you have to handle a bottle of drain cleaner for a while after reading. The main mystery is pretty conventional with a quirky female reporter getting pulled into a police investigation. If that's all there was too it, then it wouldn't be worth reading. However, the more interesting portion revolves around the relationship between a female serial killer, Gretchen Lowell, and the detective, Archie Sheridan, that she tortured before being captured. The author reportedly got tips on writing violence from Chuck Palanhuik, the author of Fight Club, and that may explain why the gore in the torture flashbacks seems more horrific than the rest of the book. To the author's credit, she avoids turning this into a Silence of the Lambs type of story, and the mystery of what happened while Archie was Gretchen's captive is what will keep you turning the pages rather than the weaker main story. ...more *****3.5 \" BITCH IS CRAY-CRAY\" STARS**** \"I want them to know that I'm hurting you. I want them to know that and not be able to find you. And then I want to kill you.\" Gretchen, ...I fucking loved your serial killer ass. Okay, why am I talking to a fictional character?... Whatever !.. Gretchen is psychotic......Psychotically entertaining. UNFORTUNATELY there wasn't enough of Gretchen in the story.. Wait, I'm lying. There are a lot of fucked up memories regarding her wrong doing---> THANK YOU Ar *****3.5 \" BITCH IS CRAY-CRAY\" STARS**** \"I want them to know that I'm hurting you. I want them to know that and not be able to find you. And then I want to kill you.\" Gretchen, ...I fucking loved your serial killer ass. Okay, why am I talking to a fictional character?... Whatever !.. Gretchen is psychotic......Psychotically entertaining. UNFORTUNATELY there wasn't enough of Gretchen in the story.. Wait, I'm lying. There are a lot of fucked up memories regarding her wrong doing---> THANK YOU Archie, but I wanted more. Had the story solely been about Gretchen and Archie's 10 days of fantastic torture, this would be 5 stars...EASILY. I found myself not giving a rats ass about the current killing spree... DON'T JUDGE me, Gretchen is that fucking badass.. \" You'll still dream about me. You won't be able to touch another woman without thinking of me. You'll think about me tonight, won't you? When you're all alone in the dark. Your cock in your hand\" Okay, ....Whatever, Gretchen is the Bombloondizzle. If you're in the mood to read about a woman that can give Hannibal Lecter a run for his money, your quest ends here. ...more I'm not a big reader of books in the crime genre, but I was in the mood for this sort of thing after bingeing my way through the last few seasons of Dexter on Netflix. Heartsick had one of those gripping and exciting sounding blurbs. The story never quite matched the promise of the blurb, but I did find the plot engaging and the characters the right mix of likeable and intriguing. The main focus of this story was on two characters, though we did get multiple scenes from lesser characters along t I'm not a big reader of books in the crime genre, but I was in the mood for this sort of thing after bingeing my way through the last few seasons of Dexter on Netflix. Heartsick had one of those gripping and exciting sounding blurbs. The story never quite matched the promise of the blurb, but I did find the plot engaging and the characters the right mix of likeable and intriguing. The main focus of this story was on two characters, though we did get multiple scenes from lesser characters along the way. Archie Sheridan led the Beauty Killer task force for over ten years before they finally caught the killer. Only it was not so simple as that as the killer, Gretchen Lowell, actually caught Archie and tortured him for 10 days before turning herself into the police. Archie survived the ordeal, but was left badly damaged by it. He has spent the last two years on medical leave and has an addiction to his pain pills. Worse still he still has to deal with Gretchen as she has spent the time feeding the police more names and locations of her victims, and she will speak to no one but Archie. Archie is convinced to return to lead another task force when a new serial killer starts leaving a trail of bodies in Portland. Susan Ward is a young and hungry newspaper reporter who catches a break when she is given the task of writing a feature report on Archie and his return to active duty. The story was engaging enough. There was plenty going on to keep the attention of the reader between the investigation into the current killings, the flashbacks to Archie's time as a victim of Gretchen's, and with Susan's own story. All in all this was an entertaining story and I'll definitely be reading the sequel. Rating: 3.5 stars. Audio Note: Carolyn McCormick did an excellent job with the audio narration. ...more A doctor who is a serial killer kidnaps a detective who is working on the very case to catch her, the serial killer. He has been getting her help as a consultant on the case for months. The man who walked into her trap will never be the same man ever again. A great but gruesome story that goes back and forth in time until it all comes together at the end. Looking forward to the next book in the series. When I started reading Chelsea Cain's Heartsick I didn't really expect to enjoy it. Cain isn't a fantastic writer, she gets very caught up in over describing her characters, her environment and everything in between. I'm in great agreement with Stephen King who wrote in his book \"On Writing\" that the building of a scene in a book is collaborative and that if an author describes every detail in that scene they take away from the reader and their role in the collaboration. Cain uses description as When I started reading Chelsea Cain's Heartsick I didn't really expect to enjoy it. Cain isn't a fantastic writer, she gets very caught up in over describing her characters, her environment and everything in between. I'm in great agreement with Stephen King who wrote in his book \"On Writing\" that the building of a scene in a book is collaborative and that if an author describes every detail in that scene they take away from the reader and their role in the collaboration. Cain uses description as a crutch and Heartsick is a poorer book because of it. But while Cain isn't a fantastic writer, she does have some really strong core skills. In Heartsick there is a relationship between a cop and a serial killer that is simply fantastic. The essential connection of these two characters is a strong foundation on which the book is built on. Cain interweaves flashbacks into a story about the hunt for a serial killer and the reporter who is trying to cover it. This overused device actually works here and the stronger story, told in flashback, really does help to bolster the weaker main story. The back story is so strong that I often wondered while reading this book if it shouldn't have been the main story. While the twists and turns in the book aren't exactly surprising, the book moves along at a near page turner pace due to the peppering of the back story. I found myself more interested in what would happen between the cop and the serial killer than who was the actual killer in the main story. Faults aside, I do think this is a descent debut novel, it gives a peek into the possibilities that Cain has as a writer and so I'll be interested to see where she goes in the sequel to this book Sweetheart. ...more Excellent story and writing, reading the whole series and loving it. Heartsick accomplishes something that no novel to come before it has: it literally lowers the bar as to the depths publishers will sink to to publish horrible material. It is actually that bad. While other novels before it have been guilty of wandering aimlessly (Tommyknockers) or being offensive (Darkly Dreaming Dexter), Heartsick is horrible on a far greater level: it is thinly veiled plagiarism. Cain has managed to almost directly rip off the plot to the Hannibal Lecter series by Thomas Harris. Heartsick accomplishes something that no novel to come before it has: it literally lowers the bar as to the depths publishers will sink to to publish horrible material. It is actually that bad. While other novels before it have been guilty of wandering aimlessly (Tommyknockers) or being offensive (Darkly Dreaming Dexter), Heartsick is horrible on a far greater level: it is thinly veiled plagiarism. Cain has managed to almost directly rip off the plot to the Hannibal Lecter series by Thomas Harris. I'll give you an example: in the first Hannibal book (Red Dragon), Hannibal is already in jail. He had been acting as a profiling consultant alongside Will Graham, when he had in fact been the killer all along. Graham catches Lecter, but is severely injured in the process. Having retired after the incident, Graham is called back into duty to catch a new serial killer with Lecter's help, as Lecter feels he has a special connection to Graham. Here's the plot to Heartsick: the killer is already in jail, as they'd been helping the detective on her own case as a medical consultant. The detective caught the killer but was severely injured in the process and was forced into retirement. He is called back into active duty to catch a new serial killer and enlists the killers help, as she feels she has a special relationship with the detective. I'm not kidding, it's that blatant. All Cain changed was the gender. Other changes are suprivilous or different forms of plagiarism. For example: the detective is addicted to vicodin as a result of his injury. This has potential, except that it's blatantly ripped off of House. Anouther change is the sexual relationship between killer and detective, which is ripped off of the NEXT Harris book, Silence of the Lambs. This is a particular point of contention, as it rips off the basic idea but had none of the style and finesse that Harris has. I mean, I had no idea you could walk into a maximum security prison at midnight and get molested by an imprisoned serial killer. Who knew? Oh, and killer has purple hair. I'm sure Cain threw that if to titillate fanboys who will never be laid. It's Red Dragon. Just go read Red Dragon. Don't read this. Ever. If a friend recommends this to you, ignore them. It's like someone took the plot to Red Dragon, scene for scene, and gave it to the stupidest person on the planet with the directive to ruin it, scene for scene. The only new elements it adds detract from the story. I'm dumber for having read this. The sequels to this are also ripoffs of the sequels to Red Dragon. What's worse is an author I used to respect, Chuck Palinuk (Fight Club) praised it as being \"the most original serial killer since Hannibal Lecter\"... I have to wonder if he was being tongue in cheek with that. It's horrible. Don't read it. I wish I had a grade lower than 1. 1/5. ...more I\u2019ve seen reviews of this novel ranging from calling it \"the thriller of the year\" to \"not a very suspenseful read\". For me, both seemed to paradoxically be true. At it\u2019s core, it is a decent psychological thriller centering around Detective Archie Sheridan who was captured by a female serial killer, and is forced back onto the job two years afterwards to catch another serial killer. Cain does not follow a strict chronological sequence in her storytelling, and there are two major stories at play I\u2019ve seen reviews of this novel ranging from calling it \"the thriller of the year\" to \"not a very suspenseful read\". For me, both seemed to paradoxically be true. At it\u2019s core, it is a decent psychological thriller centering around Detective Archie Sheridan who was captured by a female serial killer, and is forced back onto the job two years afterwards to catch another serial killer. Cain does not follow a strict chronological sequence in her storytelling, and there are two major stories at play here: 1) Sheridan\u2019s experiences and thoughts while in captivity of a serial killer and 2) his struggle to find another serial killer two years later while operating in a majorly dysfunctional manner as a result of his torture and eventual release while in captivity. Cain intersperses scenes from the first story into the second (main) story throughout the novel, and she switches back and forth whenever Sheridan experiences a heightened level of stress or turmoil during his search for the current serial killer. If that is not enough, Cain sets the story in Portland during the late winter/early spring time period. This is something that I\u2019m sure was more than intentional as she not so subtly alters the weather to reflect what Sheridan is thinking and how is feeling during the investigation and his subsequent flashbacks. While it seems like this could be an all too obvious scene tactic, it actually does not backfire on Cain and works very well throughout the novel. While the plot was certainly one of the more original ones I\u2019ve seen in a while, I figured out the ending about two thirds of the way through it (i.e. who the killer was and how each main character fit into the \"big picture\"), but that could just be a product of my line of thinking and/or current studies. ;) I finished the novel in a hurry once I thought I had it figured out to see whether I was correct in my predictions hoping that I had been led astray and there was actually a big surprise in store for me at the end. There wasn\u2019t, and while that did detract from my overall impressions of the story, I can still recognize the decent effort Cain made to prevent people like myself from accurately predicting the ending. ...more This was right up my alley. Loved the complex relationship between Archie, a pill-popping, damaged cop, and his former tormentor Gretchen, the beautiful serial killer who let him live at the expense of her freedom. The sick and twisted chemistry between these two flawed characters is well done and what makes this so special. It takes Stockholm Syndrome to a whole new level (a deeply disturbing one). Susan's character was also intriguing, though her story takes a back seat to Archie's. In fact, I This was right up my alley. Loved the complex relationship between Archie, a pill-popping, damaged cop, and his former tormentor Gretchen, the beautiful serial killer who let him live at the expense of her freedom. The sick and twisted chemistry between these two flawed characters is well done and what makes this so special. It takes Stockholm Syndrome to a whole new level (a deeply disturbing one). Susan's character was also intriguing, though her story takes a back seat to Archie's. In fact, I thought all the characters were multi-layered and interesting, which is what earned this a fifth star. I was left wanting more and can't wait to read the next book. ...more I read thsi book for research on a book that I am writing... and this realy just blew me away! I mean goodness this is just so great!! Loved it! It did take time to get into the book...more like five chapters...but holy wow wow. . .once I got in it just blew my mind and captivated me! I really enjoyed the concept of both serial killers...the twist..the romane...the character development was outstanding. I'm purchasing the next book right now. A deadly nightmare you can only pray to wake up from\u2026 Archie Sheridan is a detective with the Portland PD. During his rookie year as a detective, eleven years ago, he\u2019d joined the task force that had been set up to capture the serial killer known as The Beauty Killer. For years, they tried to capture the killer, who evaded them, until a beautiful woman came into the picture. She approached the task force, introduced herself as a psychologist, and baited Archie until she kidnapped him, and torture A deadly nightmare you can only pray to wake up from\u2026 Archie Sheridan is a detective with the Portland PD. During his rookie year as a detective, eleven years ago, he\u2019d joined the task force that had been set up to capture the serial killer known as The Beauty Killer. For years, they tried to capture the killer, who evaded them, until a beautiful woman came into the picture. She approached the task force, introduced herself as a psychologist, and baited Archie until she kidnapped him, and tortured him. She kills Archie, but, unlike her previous victims, she brought him back, dialed 9-1-1 and turned herself in. And yet, she\u2019s not done torturing Archie, and he knows it. Two years later, divorced from his wife, refusing to see his kids and addicted to prescription drugs, Archie is asked to head a new task force for a new serial killer, one who kidnaps teenage girls, strangles them, rapes them, douses them with bleach and dumps them in the river. With barely any clues or leads, they are on the hunt for the After School Strangler. Meanwhile, Susan Ward, feature writer for the Herald, is assigned to follow Archie and write a feature about him. Dogging his heels, Susan sees things most reporters wouldn\u2019t unless they were to stumble upon a body themselves. For Susan, the After School Strangler hits close to home, for, years before, she\u2019d actually gone to one of the murdered teenagers. And all the while, hunting for a new serial killer, Archie continues his visits with Gretchen in prison every Sunday. The reason? Supposedly because she will give up a body of one of her victims; name and location of burial, but it has to be Archie. Does he go simply for closer to her victims families, or is there something more? Will they catch the After School Strangler before the fourth victim is found dead? Incredible novel! Throughout the book, we visit Archie\u2019s past, during the time when Gretchen tortures him. The torture is described as such that the reader feels it, and it\u2019s gut-wrenching! She not only does a number on his body, but fractures his mind as well. Gretchen is such the narcissistic psychopath that just listening to the way she talks gives you the shivers while your stomach jumps in revulsion. Archie is very much now a broken person in mind as well as body, for her marks may heal, but they scar, both ways. Susan, the reporter, is as screwed up as Archie, in a totally different manner. Having lost her father at 15, she rebelled, and hasn\u2019t been the same since. And while this new serial killer is nowhere as bad as Gretchen, the killer is just as screwed up in the head as she is. There may not be much action in this novel except at the end, it\u2019s the mind games and past torture that really grip you. You continue reading, as fascinated as you are repulsed, and even though you close the book, thinking there\u2019s no way you can continue reading it, you\u2019ll pick it right back up, wondering what else Gretchen does to Archie, wondering who the new serial killer is. I sooooo can\u2019t wait to get my hands on Sweetheart, book #2 in the series. ...more I've heard Heartsick billed as the next Silence of the Lambs, and I think that description is deceptive. Gretchen Lowell, the beautiful serial killer that Detective Archie Sheridan visits in prison every Sunday, isn't consulting on the current case he's working on. Gretchen kidnapped and tortured Archie when he was investigating the trail of bodies she was leaving. Now he visits her once a week as she slowly reveals locations of her victims, and also because he's mentally dependent on her in a s I've heard Heartsick billed as the next Silence of the Lambs, and I think that description is deceptive. Gretchen Lowell, the beautiful serial killer that Detective Archie Sheridan visits in prison every Sunday, isn't consulting on the current case he's working on. Gretchen kidnapped and tortured Archie when he was investigating the trail of bodies she was leaving. Now he visits her once a week as she slowly reveals locations of her victims, and also because he's mentally dependent on her in a sick, destructive way. I wanted to give this book more than three stars, but the problem was that the plotline that revolved around Gretchen and Archie was far more interesting than the current-day serial killer mystery. With regards to the latter, there was no tension, no foreboding, no sense of urgency, and the pacing was all wrong. I spent almost 2/3 of the book dying for a scene where we get to see Archie actually visit Gretchen in prison. I thought it was a shame it came so late. The resolution to the current-day mystery almost ended up being a total bust - without any spoilers, I thought that it was ridiculously coincidental and almost threw the book against the wall. It's redeemed in the end, luckily. The synopsis for the sequel, Sweetheart , promises more of a focus on Gretchen, even if it does sound a little far-fetched. ...more Talk about a psychological thriller! Wow! Archie Sheridan was a detective who was happily married and daddy to a little boy and little girl. He spent a decade trying to find and capture the Beauty Killer who killed 200 people. What a shock he got when instead of a man it turned out to be a gorgeous woman named Gretchen Lowell, a sociopath who manipulated Archie into thinking she could help him solve the murders only to capture him and torture him to death only to revive him. She's in prison now Talk about a psychological thriller! Wow! Archie Sheridan was a detective who was happily married and daddy to a little boy and little girl. He spent a decade trying to find and capture the Beauty Killer who killed 200 people. What a shock he got when instead of a man it turned out to be a gorgeous woman named Gretchen Lowell, a sociopath who manipulated Archie into thinking she could help him solve the murders only to capture him and torture him to death only to revive him. She's in prison now and he is hooked on pills, lost his marriage and sees Gretchen every Sunday in prison. This is how this book begins! Now Archie and his task force have a new task- find out who is killing brunette high school sophomores at the 3 local high schools. Is it one of Gretchen's minions? A teacher? A student? A parent? A cop? This is a very unique book, very different characters than you've seen before, an unusual story, plenty of emotion and drama and police work. This time the task force is working with a writer Susan Ward who is doing articles on Archie. Susan has some dangerous secrets of her own and Gretchen has a secret reason to want to meet her. This book will pull you in and not let you go. ...more I can't even describe how good Heartsick was. This book was brutal, sick, twisted, crazy,and any other words you can think of along those lines but I loved every single word of it. I was entranced from the very beginning. If I didn't have to work and sleep I would have finished it in a day. I thought about it every single minute I wasn't reading it. It's that good. Do yourself a favor-READ THIS BOOK!!! This is one of those few times where I've come away from a book feeling a bit, well, unsure. I can't say I really loved the book but equally I can't say I hated it too. For me it was more of a compelling book. What I mean is that it was like witnessing a terrible event, e.g. a car crash, you know you shouldn't be looking but you can't help yourself. Two stories running parallel to each other. On the one hand you have a female serial killer who is now incarcerated still having a relationship of s This is one of those few times where I've come away from a book feeling a bit, well, unsure. I can't say I really loved the book but equally I can't say I hated it too. For me it was more of a compelling book. What I mean is that it was like witnessing a terrible event, e.g. a car crash, you know you shouldn't be looking but you can't help yourself. Two stories running parallel to each other. On the one hand you have a female serial killer who is now incarcerated still having a relationship of sorts with her Stockholm Syndrome victim, Archie Sheridan, the main protagonist here. On the other, another killer targeting school girls. A case Archie is trying to solve. Two story lines but neither one really fleshed out properly. The school girl plot line almost ran as a sub plot which I didn't really find that 'I'm dying to see who done it element,' disappointingly. I wasn't really that bothered, partly because tension was really lacking, it felt a bit lacklustre. There were a couple of other sub plots that really seemed superfluous, the senator one being one of them, though I've now realised this is picked up in the next book. Hhmmm, not holding my breath with excitement, but I could be wrong!! The Gretchen Lowell, Archie Sheridan relationship was more interesting. Yes, she's a dark, psychotic, clever, dangerous woman and the build up to how psychotic was good BUT it still felt really lacklustre. I just wasn't that excited. Relieved she wasn't another Hannibal Lecter, been done and all that, but this was just ....... *sigh* I suspect the relationship and back story is going to continue with these two central characters but at the moment I'm not chomping at the bit to see where it's all going. Maybe in time, but for me the excitement just isn't there, yet. A disappointing read. ...more While not a fan of the police procedural, the premise of this one intrigued me, and with a rave recommendation from a friend I decided to give it a try. If this is your genre, this is one of the best books you'll read -- it's shocking, gruesome, gripping. The characters are well fleshed-out and the narrative momentum zings along. I would much rather experience this story as a movie and I'm sure it's being optioned as I write this (or will be very soon). One of my favourite films is Seven starrin While not a fan of the police procedural, the premise of this one intrigued me, and with a rave recommendation from a friend I decided to give it a try. If this is your genre, this is one of the best books you'll read -- it's shocking, gruesome, gripping. The characters are well fleshed-out and the narrative momentum zings along. I would much rather experience this story as a movie and I'm sure it's being optioned as I write this (or will be very soon). One of my favourite films is Seven starring Morgan Freeman, a police procedural featuring a serial killer like no other. While I love the film, I'd have no desire to read the novel (if it had been adapted from one). Rather than read on in the series, I think I will wait for the movies, for I am certain they are coming. Heartsick is great source material and Cain a remarkably vivid writer. She made me squirm and wince; that's good writing. ...more I highly recommend Heartsick . ...Yeees! Oh, how i love thee. *evil grin* My fascination with serial killers came back with Heartsick . With a woman as the serial killer made it all the more interesting. I miss watching Dexter . =( Archie and Gretchen have a very complicated relationship. You'd think Archie doesn't want anything to do with her after she abducted, tortured, left him wanting to die, then turn herself over to the police. Chelsea Cain is playing with my emotions, because I felt something I highly recommend Heartsick . ...Yeees! Oh, how i love thee. *evil grin* My fascination with serial killers came back with Heartsick . With a woman as the serial killer made it all the more interesting. I miss watching Dexter . =( Archie and Gretchen have a very complicated relationship. You'd think Archie doesn't want anything to do with her after she abducted, tortured, left him wanting to die, then turn herself over to the police. Chelsea Cain is playing with my emotions, because I felt something for Gretchen other than hate and revulsion. The story was compact. I loved Archie 's POV. He knows there's something wrong with him, that his life sucked, and his mixed feelings for Gretchen were abnormal. Still, he does a good job being a cop. But the darkness Gretchen showed him during his time with her remained. Susan the reporter is okay, too. Her life is as f*cked up as Archie's, but she hides it well. The way Gretchen read her like an open book whe she visited at the prison is so enjoyable. Hee. I am in love with how Gretchen 's mind works! Manipulative, smart, and very, very devious. This is the villain to beat! Heartsick has gore, horror, and pain. I had an unbelievably good time reading it! It takes one to know one, right? So in order for Archie to defeat Gretchen once and for all, he has to think and act like her. like a maniac. :) ...more I was wondering if I should have created a new shelf for \"really creepy killers\". This book was completely twisted, and Gretchen was absolutely disturbing. I'm not sure if what she did was worse, or the consequences that resulted from her actions. Namely, Archie. He was so twisted and messed up after his encounter with her. The relationship between them was also equally disturbing. I really want to know what happens next, especially after where the book left off. The gist of the book, Gretchen Lo I was wondering if I should have created a new shelf for \"really creepy killers\". This book was completely twisted, and Gretchen was absolutely disturbing. I'm not sure if what she did was worse, or the consequences that resulted from her actions. Namely, Archie. He was so twisted and messed up after his encounter with her. The relationship between them was also equally disturbing. I really want to know what happens next, especially after where the book left off. The gist of the book, Gretchen Lowell is a serial killer that is currently in jail with a life sentence. She kidnapped Archie (the lead investigator) and when she was done with him, she released him and turned herself in. The book alternates between the present and the past. The past, meaning when Archie was a captive of Gretchen's. In the present, Archie is on medical leave and asked to head up a task force to find another serial killer. In the meantime, a woman named Susan who works for a newspaper will be following Archie around to do a story on him. The best parts of the book (and equally the worst) were the scenes with Gretchen and Archie. What she did to him, and what she's still doing to him is horrific and the reader gets to see how everything evolved from page 1 which opens with Archie being kidnapped. I'm really curious to see where the author takes the story in the next book. Good thing I had the foresight to take out the second one as well. ...more She\u2019ll literally steal your heart A cop was traumatised by a ruthless serial killer who is now in jail and he will need her help to solve the new killing spread across the city. Quite a familiar sketch right? I too was wondering about something similar to Hannibal when I started this book. But then Ms. Cain kicked the bucket over my head to say, \"Nope\". Actually the set \"captured murdering psychiatrist helping cop to solve cases\" was so well explored in the Legacy of Lecter that it became obvious t She\u2019ll literally steal your heart A cop was traumatised by a ruthless serial killer who is now in jail and he will need her help to solve the new killing spread across the city. Quite a familiar sketch right? I too was wondering about something similar to Hannibal when I started this book. But then Ms. Cain kicked the bucket over my head to say, \"Nope\". Actually the set \"captured murdering psychiatrist helping cop to solve cases\" was so well explored in the Legacy of Lecter that it became obvious that nothing more can be done in that field. But then came Gretchen Lowell, a beautiful, intelligent, manipulating serial killer who can look at your soul and mind through your eyes, crawl under your skin and steal your darkest fears. And she is not a cannibal who wants to eat you. She just wants to play, have a good time right? This makes her a bit more interesting too. This book is a nice, slow burn that you enjoy the more it lasts. It is like getting hooked on a TV series. You just want a little more at the end of each chapter. The book never pushes you, it just makes you hungry for more. And the feeling \"there is more to come\" is what convinces to read the next books too. A great contender in the world of serial killers. The others have to look out for Gretchen Lowell! ...more Somehow, I picked up the idea that I'd heard Great Things about this book. I was disappointed. This book would make a nice primetime soap opera mimiseries. In some ways, it's better than many police procedural thrillers. Though I wouldn't call it a page-turner, the premise was vaguely interesting enough to make me read it. Despite its apparent urgency--serial killer on the loose, damaged hero cop with a ticking-time-bomb pill problem--the plot moved slowly. I thought Archie Sheridan and his team s Somehow, I picked up the idea that I'd heard Great Things about this book. I was disappointed. This book would make a nice primetime soap opera mimiseries. In some ways, it's better than many police procedural thrillers. Though I wouldn't call it a page-turner, the premise was vaguely interesting enough to make me read it. Despite its apparent urgency--serial killer on the loose, damaged hero cop with a ticking-time-bomb pill problem--the plot moved slowly. I thought Archie Sheridan and his team seemed weak and ineffectual. The stronger protagonist, Susan Ward, was obnoxious--daddy issues, attention-seeking, self-absorbed, and despite her alleged talents, she only ever got anywhere because the men in her life gave her the resources. She annoyed the hell out of me, and the big spoiler at the end (which I thought seemed contrived and unrealistic) made me even more annoyed by her character development. I know she was supposed to be highly sympathetic, but I didn't feel it. Naturally, the Gretchen Lowell plotline is supposed to be more interesting, but it disappointed me, too. She's supposed to be a cunning and terrifying criminal, but there's not much to her. ...more I may have found a new favorite thriller author, right up there with Michael Robotham, Harlan Coben, and Brian Freeman. Chelsea Cain is one sick, twisted woman...and I think that's her best feature. Loved HEARTSICK and had that sad, sad feeling one has when one comes to the last page of a book that was simply superb. I'll be seeking out more of her work soon. OMG what a crazy good book. I wasn't sure what was going on but the story went from bad to worse and then good. It was a crazy ride. This book really messes with the psychological mind. Really twisted. \u201cWhatever you think this is going to be like,\" she whispers, \"it's going to be worse.\u201d This surprised me alittle due to the fact on the front cover it states 'Up there in the same league as Silence of the Lambs' The main story was a little boring/slow at times, but the relationship between serial killer Gretchen Lowell and detective Archie Sheridan was interesting enough to keep me reading. This is read in different perspectives, generally Archie or Susans with a few chapters to separate the tw \u201cWhatever you think this is going to be like,\" she whispers, \"it's going to be worse.\u201d This surprised me alittle due to the fact on the front cover it states 'Up there in the same league as Silence of the Lambs' The main story was a little boring/slow at times, but the relationship between serial killer Gretchen Lowell and detective Archie Sheridan was interesting enough to keep me reading. This is read in different perspectives, generally Archie or Susans with a few chapters to separate the two- this is little confusing at first but you get used to it as you read along. The violence in this novel is pretty full on and down right torture to an extreme, i couldn't help but cringe, especially when it came to the drain cleaner scenes. This book will definitely come to mind next time i have to pick up this product and use it; not in a good way. Detective Archie Sheridan was the lead investigator in the Beauty Killer Task Force who was captured and tortured to the brink of death by Gretchen Lowell, a psychopathic serial killer, before she was captured and sent to life in prison, barely escaping the death sentence. Archie's life changed forever, divorced from his wife, barely seeing his kids and now addicted to abusing prescription medication. Not to mention his weekly visits with said serial killer, in return gaining knowledge of more hidden/unknown victims, and their final resting places. When a serial killer starts brutally raping and murdering teenage high school girls, all of the same description Archie and the Beauty Killer Task Force are back to bring the culprit to justice. Reporter Susan Ward, must follow Archie around for a 4 part news exclusive on the hero detective. Her eyes opened to a totally different world, a world of bodies and death, all in hopes to uncover the truth and secrets behind Archie and the trauma he faced when in he was in the hands of Gretchen Lowell; Trauma he still faces every single day. \u201cI wanted you to understand right away how committed I am to you...That you are the only one\u201d I think the most interesting parts of this book was the torture/relationship between Archie and Gretchen, first chapter, BANG! We are in the middle of the torture and the games, then are thrown back to the present Archie. I couldn't wait to read more about what made Archie turn away from the life he had, what Gretchens sick mind had done to him and why he still remained attached to her at all. This was probably the most brutal, in your face, made you feel sick torture i've read in a while, but i just couldn't put it down until i understood why it was the way it was. WHAT IS HE THINKING? kept running through my mind when it came to Archie. Archie's drug use makes us question his ability to do his job throughout, his attraction to Gretchen personally made me uncomfortable, but i understood having read all the way through what this novel is really about besides a current serial killer and a detective's obsession with another who is still playing games with him. \u201cOur relationship is complicated by the fact that I am emotionally retarded.\u201d I liked and hated Susan, the reporter at the same time. With her pink bubblegum hair , her intent for the truth and her determination, i liked her. The sleeping around with married men and her stupid decisions at times, i hated her. I understand after reading this novel why her character was the way she was, but i dont have to like it or respect it. It is not okay to sleep around with someone who is married, no matter what your reasoning behind it is. Do not drag someone else down with you. No i dont blame just her, but the men she sleeps with as well, they had a choice after all, and are the ones who are married. So fair to say i didn't like these characters either, and they had no excuses at the end of the day. If it wasn't for the Archie/Gretchen/Susan sub-storyline in this book i probably wouldn't have stuck with it based on the fact the main story like is a little flat, and nothing really new/special for me. 'Same league as Silence of the Lambs' I think is solely based on the violence and the psychopathic parts of the story, not the story as a whole. The ending of the main plot was a little surprising, but a little like really? No One worked this out? not a single person, are you kidding me?.. It just didn't do it for me. The Archie/Gretchen ending did though, i was like HOLY SHIT! So i am curious to see where Archie goes, and what happens from there on with him and this psycho killer. Recommend to anyone liking: Mystery/ Thriller/ Adult Fiction/ Suspense ...more torture |\u02c8t\u00f4rCH\u0259r| noun the action or practice of inflicting severe pain on someone as a punishment or to force them to do or say something, or for the pleasure of the person inflicting the pain. Archie Sheridan is a torture survivor. He spent ten years as a Portland, Oregon, police detective hunting for a serial killer dubbed \u201cThe Beauty Killer,\u201d only to find that the killer was Gretchen Lowell, and that he had become her prey. She tortured him in unspeakably horrendous ways. Finally, she killed h torture |\u02c8t\u00f4rCH\u0259r| noun the action or practice of inflicting severe pain on someone as a punishment or to force them to do or say something, or for the pleasure of the person inflicting the pain. Archie Sheridan is a torture survivor. He spent ten years as a Portland, Oregon, police detective hunting for a serial killer dubbed \u201cThe Beauty Killer,\u201d only to find that the killer was Gretchen Lowell, and that he had become her prey. She tortured him in unspeakably horrendous ways. Finally, she killed him; then she saved him and turned herself in. Archie lived, but he became a physical, emotional, and psychological wreck, dependent on pills and unable to forget\u2026 Then he is called out of his medical leave to lead a task force to find the killer of high school sophomore girls. His boss has doubts as to whether Archie is up to the job; after all, it is his first case in two years. Can Archie focus on the task at hand and track the predator before he takes another girl? Enter Susan Ward, a pink-haired young newspaper reporter who is assigned to profile Archie, the \u201chero detective.\u201d Susan has plenty of her own baggage. Can she handle this project? How do her circumstances meld with the rest of the plot? The book alternates between the present-day \u201cAfter-School Strangler\u201d case and Archie\u2019s days as a captive with Gretchen. These latter parts are very disturbing to read. What kind of mind even imagines these kinds of punishments? Archie comes out of the experience so damaged that not only is he addicted to pain pills, he also has a serious case of Stockholm Syndrome. Oh, he says that he visits Gretchen every Sunday to get her to reveal the location of more bodies, but why does he really go? I generally liked both Archie and Susan, as messed up as they both are. I wanted them to succeed. Gretchen Lowell? Well, Gretchen scared the you-know-what out of me! I don\u2019t really know how I felt about the book. I finished it in less than two days, so it held my interest. But honestly, I can only take so much torture, and I felt that there was about the right amount of that in Heartsick, and it was spaced out enough that it wasn\u2019t overkill. Sorry \u2013 that was the best word I could think of. But I was expecting more from the main storyline, I guess. There were a few red herrings thrown in, but the identity of the killer was no real surprise. The final scene with Gretchen did throw in a little twist that I should have, but did not, see coming. The second book in the series is called Sweetheart. I liked the first one well enough to give the next one a try. I\u2019m conflicted about how to rate this novel. I\u2019m giving Heartsick 4 stars but would probably call it 3-1/2, as I liked it a lot but didn\u2019t love it. ...more 4.5 Stars My friend Michelle recommended this deliciously dark thriller months ago, and boy was she right with her recommendation! Chelsea Cain has created a serial killer like no other I\u2019ve read with the exception of Tom Harris\u2019 Hannibal Lector. Yes, he has met his match in Gretchen Lowell. She is beautiful. She manipulates. She gets under the skins of her vulnerable victims. She tortures and kills with pleasure. Only 1 out of her 200 victims has survived: Archie Sheridan. Or has he? The former h 4.5 Stars My friend Michelle recommended this deliciously dark thriller months ago, and boy was she right with her recommendation! Chelsea Cain has created a serial killer like no other I\u2019ve read with the exception of Tom Harris\u2019 Hannibal Lector. Yes, he has met his match in Gretchen Lowell. She is beautiful. She manipulates. She gets under the skins of her vulnerable victims. She tortures and kills with pleasure. Only 1 out of her 200 victims has survived: Archie Sheridan. Or has he? The former homicide detective and Beauty Killer Task Force leader is still on medical leave. Sheridan is a broken man. He has lost his family. He is addicted to pain medication. He forever bears the scars that the Beauty Killer afflicted upon his body and mind. He still sees his tormentor every Sunday as part of the plea deal Gretchen has gotten. And he finds comfort in these visits. (Whoa!) But a new killer has surfaced in Portland, OR. Three teen-aged girls have been found murdered and raped. And Sheridan is to lead up the new task force to catch the After School Strangler. Can he pull himself together long enough to catch this new serial killer and perhaps put his demons away for good? The Press will be watching closely. Hungry bohemian reporter, Susan Ward, will be there to do an expose on both Sheridan and the investigation. And her reportage sets off a deadly game between herself, Sheridan, the killer, and Gretchen Lowell. Cain never lets up. Her pace is fast. Her writing is great. She builds the suspense quickly and never slows down. She has created great characters that readers want to like and care about. I\u2019m glad to see that many of them will be carried through to the next installment of the Archie Sheridan/Gretchen Lowell series, Sweetheart . ...more Esta novela se disfruta de punta a punta, con un ritmo lento pero paulatino que no decae, no se pierde el hilo en ning\u00fan momento y los giros argumentales est\u00e1n bien ubicados. Argumentalmente la historia es sencilla, pero bien planteada. Pero el caso a resolver no es lo importante. Este libro gira en torno a la relaci\u00f3n entre Archie y Gretchen, que est\u00e1 tan bien constru\u00edda psicol\u00f3gicamente que da gusto leerla, m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de la barbaridad que est\u00e1s leyendo. Los psic\u00f3patas siempre fueron mi debilidad Esta novela se disfruta de punta a punta, con un ritmo lento pero paulatino que no decae, no se pierde el hilo en ning\u00fan momento y los giros argumentales est\u00e1n bien ubicados. Argumentalmente la historia es sencilla, pero bien planteada. Pero el caso a resolver no es lo importante. Este libro gira en torno a la relaci\u00f3n entre Archie y Gretchen, que est\u00e1 tan bien constru\u00edda psicol\u00f3gicamente que da gusto leerla, m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de la barbaridad que est\u00e1s leyendo. Los psic\u00f3patas siempre fueron mi debilidad a la hora de elegir una novela de suspenso pero jam\u00e1s me encontr\u00e9 con alguno que estuviera tan bien construido como en esta novela. Susan, nuestra co-protagonista tambi\u00e9n tiene sus momentos. Es un personaje simp\u00e1tico con una personalidad bien constru\u00edda. La autora se toma su tiempo para meternos en la cabeza de Susan y terminar, de alg\u00fan modo, entiendo su historia. La resoluci\u00f3n del caso de turno me pareci\u00f3 genial, no la vi venir y el abordaje del asesino fue bastante tenso y no pude despegarme de las p\u00e1ginas. A diferencia de muchos comienzos de series policiales creo que esta estuvo muy bien presentada y es una l\u00e1stima que no se hayan traducido el resto de los libros, sobre todo porque es una trama bastante pesada como para digerirla en ingl\u00e9s, as\u00ed que estoy pensando qu\u00e9 har\u00e9 respecto a eso. Los personajes me perturbaron mucho en el buen sentido y quiero saber c\u00f3mo sigue esa historia, quiz\u00e1s me anime a darle chance. En fin, si busc\u00e1s un libro de suspenso sangriento, con escenas crudas y asesinos psic\u00f3patas en serie, este definitivamente es tu libro. Seguime en: Instagram Twitter Mi blog ...more This one was interesting. A solid 3.5 stars and definitely interesting to read. I love the notion of a female serial killer but there was just something about this particular novel that just didn't dazzle me. I think it really lacked a certain pizzazz that makes murder/mystery/crime/suspense novels really great. Normally I can power through these in a day, maybe two, but this one took me awhile to get into and then finish. The killer was really obvious and truth be told there wasn't a moment wit This one was interesting. A solid 3.5 stars and definitely interesting to read. I love the notion of a female serial killer but there was just something about this particular novel that just didn't dazzle me. I think it really lacked a certain pizzazz that makes murder/mystery/crime/suspense novels really great. Normally I can power through these in a day, maybe two, but this one took me awhile to get into and then finish. The killer was really obvious and truth be told there wasn't a moment with a big twist that keeps your mind rolling. I think the point of this novel is to start the introduction of Gretchen Lowell and she kept the novel afloat for me. I will keep investing in this series just for her. I wasn't a big fan of the other characters; I didn't necessarily like Susan (the reporter) and Archie (the detective) was a little weak for me as well. Overall there were some really strong creative points and a good start to a series. But did have some weak character development and obvious twists that made it less enjoyable for me. A solid read. Pop Sugar Challenge: A Book Set in Your Home State ...more", "Title": "Heartsick"},
