{"Comments": "All those plants care about is what every being cares about on the most basic genetic level: making more copies of itself... Did I choose to plant these potatoes, or did the potato make me do it?... All these plants, which I'd always regarded as the objects of my desire,<---M> were also</---M>, I realized, subjects, acting on me, getting me to do things for them they couldn't do for themselves. Pollan posits that plants are clever little buggers who have tricked and enslaved the human race into doing their bidd All those plants care about is what every being cares about on the most basic genetic level: making more copies of itself... Did I choose to plant these potatoes, or did the potato make me do it?... All these plants, which I'd always regarded as the objects of my desire, were also, I realized, subjects, acting on me, getting me to do things for them they couldn't do for themselves. Pollan posits that plants are clever little buggers who have tricked and enslaved the human race into doing their bidding. I am not unfamiliar with this thinking. Growing up, my father regularly told me the same thing. Once when walking home from school on a windy day, a large branch fell on me, striking my shoulder and knocking me to the ground. Since my collar bone was not broken, I got up and walked home. When I told my father what happened, he said, \"Of course. The trees are always hoping we'll drop dead. This one was just a bit more aggressive about it.<---F>\" CARMEN: o</---F>.O PAPI: \"Trees are always hoping that the humans or animals walking by will drop dead. That way they will have a tasty snack.\" I've never forgotten what my father told me. He was halfway serious in these remarks, and I take them halfway seriously, too. Even though I've seen tons of \"stupid\" or \"silly\" horror films which dream up scenarios in which \"plants are trying to kill us!,\" there is an undercurrent of truth in the notion that, in a way, plants are very evolved organisms, much more evolved than humans themselves. Who can say what their true intentions are? (<---B>I'm only half-joking, here.</---B>) Despite the rather \"hokey horror film\" premise of Pollan's introduction, the book is a smart yet entertaining look at plants and their history of coevolution and codependence with human beings. The book is divided into four parts. 1.) APPLES. This is a very interesting portion of the book. A lot of focus is on Johnny Appleseed. We also get some fascinating discussions of religion. There was an old tradition in northern Europe linking the grape, which flourished all through Latin Christendom, with the corruptions of the Catholic Church, while casting the apple as the wholesome fruit of Protestantism. Wine figured in the Eucharist; also, the Old Testament warned against the temptations of the grape. But the Bible didn't have a bad word to say about the apple or even the strong drink that could be made from it. Even the most God-fearing Puritan could persuade himself that cider had been given a theological free pass. 2.) TULIPS. This section was hella boring. I was bored out of my skull. Ugh. SO BORING. 3.) MARIJUANA. This was a fascinating section about drugs, Pollan's experiences growing and smoking pot, and why plants that alter human consciousness could be a good thing. We also get gems like this: [Witches'] potion recipes called for such things as datura, opium poppies, belladonna, hashish, fly-agaric mushrooms, and the skins of toads. These ingredients would be combined in a hempseed-oil-based \"flying ointment\" that the witches would then administer vaginally using a special dildo. This was the \"broomstick\" by which these women were said to travel. Pollan posits that many of our philosophies and our religions come from the influence of drugs. There's a lot of research to back him up, which I won't go into here. 4.) POTATO. This was interesting because Pollan discusses the Potato Famine and also GMO potatoes. He even grows some GMO potatoes himself in his garden as an experiment. Blah blah blah food industry blah blah blah monoculture blah blah blah. ... Tl;dr - 3 out of 4 ain't bad. The mindnumbing tulip section stops this from being a 5-star book, but I think this is a better book than the only other Pollan book I've read: Cooked: A Natural History of Transformation , in which Pollan comes off as a rather entitled and condescending wealthy person. There's not much of that here, Pollan is much more relatable in this book, perhaps because he's not trying to tell people what to eat and how to live their lives. Wow, Carmen, bitter much? I call it how I see it! :p This book has so much information and interesting thinking points that I think it is definitely worth reading for anyone who has even the slightest interest in the topics presented here. I was surprised the book was so good. I'm impressed. ...more I love books that open my eyes, teach me something, and even go so far as to re-educate me on the fallacies foisted upon me by ill-informed elementary school teachers. To that last end, I found the chapter on Johnny Appleseed very enlightening as well as highly entertaining. <---A>Michael Pollan</---A> is more humorous and, let's just say, more adventurous than one might expect from a journalist/botanist (see his passages on hallucinogenic plants.) I appreciate his willingness to \"go first\" in the same way I I love books that open my eyes, teach me something, and even go so far as to re-educate me on the fallacies foisted upon me by ill-informed elementary school teachers. To that last end, I found the chapter on Johnny Appleseed very enlightening as well as highly entertaining. Michael Pollan is more humorous and, let's just say, more adventurous than one might expect from a journalist/botanist (see his passages on hallucinogenic plants.) I appreciate his willingness to \"go first\" in the same way I tip my hat to daring bastard who first tried, say, lobster. I assume it went down like this: \"What's this? A giant, saltwater, armor-clad cockroach? Definitely looks poisonous....Fuck it, I'm hungry.\" Trying new, unknown food must have been done on a dare or at least with starvation lurking close at-hand. Farmers on any scale will enjoy and find use in The Botany of Desire . As a pallid yellow-thumb aspiring to green, I know I learned a few things. For one, I've finally transitioned over to organic apples. I don't know who would eat another kind after reading this book. Why with the chemicals already?! Good lord! ...more Okay, okay, books by Michael Pollan are clearly a fad right now, but I have bought into it whole-heartedly. He is an amazing, amazing writer: he makes me want to plant a garden, to tour his garden (his bedroom? what?), to only eat organic food, and to find out the story and origin of every morsel of food I put in my body. But he does it in a way that isn't overly preachy or agenda-driven. Instead, he lets you get what he is saying while at the same time telling an engaging, well-researched story Okay, okay, books by Michael Pollan are clearly a fad right now, but I have bought into it whole-heartedly. He is an amazing, amazing writer: he makes me want to plant a garden, to tour his garden (his bedroom? what?), to only eat organic food, and to find out the story and origin of every morsel of food I put in my body. But he does it in a way that isn't overly preachy or agenda-driven. Instead, he lets you get what he is saying while at the same time telling an engaging, well-researched story, both personal and historic, and one that made me want to read quickly to the very end. I took many a too-long lunch break because I was so hooked. ...more This is a marvellous book, which discusses the science, sociology, aesthetics and culture, relating to four plants. Apples Tulips Marijuana Potatoes Because of who I am, the things that interested me most were the tulip and potato sections. With the first, he discusses the notorious obsession surrounding tulip cultivation in Holland in the 17th century. With the second he discusses a genetically modified potato which was on sale in the US at the time he wrote the book, in 2001. The potato is a variety This is a marvellous book, which discusses the science, sociology, aesthetics and culture, relating to four plants. Apples Tulips Marijuana Potatoes Because of who I am, the things that interested me most were the tulip and potato sections. With the first, he discusses the notorious obsession surrounding tulip cultivation in Holland in the 17th century. With the second he discusses a genetically modified potato which was on sale in the US at the time he wrote the book, in 2001. The potato is a variety called NewLeaf. This is no longer a product being promoted by the company which produces the seeds for it (Monsanto of course), but what the author has to say about it is still very relevant with regard to current and future vegetable research. It has left me feeling a lot less blaz\u00e9 about GM vegetables and monocultures. This may be the only way forward if we are to feed the vast number of people on this planet, but it comes at a price - and that price may be largely unknown. In contrast to the huge vegetable factory-type farming discussed in most of this section, Pollan also visits an organic farmer, and the difference hits you big time. Everything about the factory farms are so alien, and brutal in their approach, (they seemingly use anything they can to get the most produce for the least bucks); and everything about the organic farm is so much more harmonious, and working respectfully with nature. Interestingly the main factory-type vegetable farmer he spoke to, also grows organic vegetables, but just for him and his family's consumption. Go figure. He also fairly briefly discusses the horrors of the Irish Potato Famine between 1845 and 1852, and that too was extremely interesting. And now on to matters of the heart. The section on tulips in the 17th century was a great pleasure to read. Here I am just going to type a few chunks out of the book, (some rather chopped about I'm afraid) for those of you who fancy a brief excursion into a time of passion, madness and decadence. (view spoiler) [ Tulip mania in Holland reached its peak between 1634 and 1637. The queen of all tulips was Semper Augustus. \"Generally regarded at the time as the most beautiful flower in the world. In 1624 there were only a dozen or so specimens, most of them owned by Dr. Adriaen Pauw. This was the intricately-feathered red and white tulip - one bulb of which could change hands for 10,000 guilders at the height of the mania, a sum that would have bought one of the grandest canal houses in Amsterdam. It is now gone from nature. But I have seen paintings of it (the Dutch would commission portraits of venerable tulips they couldn't afford to buy.) Beside a Semper Augustus a modern tulip looks like a toy. A tulip that falls out of favour soon goes extinct. Generally a strain won't last unless it is regularly replanted, so the chain of genetic continuity can be broken in a generation. Even when people do continue to plant a particular tulip, the vigour of that variety (which is propagated by removing and planting the bulb's \"offsets\", the little genetically identical bulblets that form at its base) eventually fades and must be abandoned...... Tulips, in other words, are mortal. No tulip appears in the flower-crowded borders of medieval tapestries, nor is the flower ever mentioned in the early 'herbals' - the Old World encyclopedias of the world's known plants and their uses. The fierceness of the passion that the tulip unleashed in Holland in the seventeenth century (and to a lesser extent in France and England) may have had something to do with the flower's novelty in the west, and the suddenness of its appearance. It is the youngest of our canonical flowers. Ogier Ghislain De Busbecq, an Austrian, claimed to have introduced the first tulip to Europe, sending a consignment of bulbs from Constantinople in 1554. (The word 'tulip' is a corruption of the Turkish word for 'turban'.) Tulips, like apples, do not come true from seed - which accounts for the astonishing variety it can produce.....though it takes 7 years before a tulip grown from seed flowers and shows its new colours. (In seventeenth century Holland) botany became a national pastime, followed as closely and avidly as we follow sports today. Land in Holland being so scarce and expensive, Dutch gardens were miniatures, measured in square feet rather than acres and frequently augmented with mirrors. The Dutch thought of their gardens as jewel boxes, and in such a space even a single flower...could make a powerful statement. What the Dutch really sought were 'broken' tulips, these were flowers where you get a white or yellow ground, with intricate feathers or flames of a vividly contrasting hue. In the 1920s the electron microscope was invented, and scientists discovered that the virus causing broken tulips was spread by myzus persicae, the peach potato aphid. Peach trees were common in seventeenth century gardens. By the 1920s the Dutch regarded their tulips as commodities to trade...and since the virus weakened the bulbs it infected (the offsets of a 'broken' tulip were small and few in number), Dutch growers set about ridding their fields of the infection. There was another Dutch obsession - a quest that has gone on for 400 years - the quest for a black tulip. Today we have 'Queen of the Night' - a dark, glossy maroonish purple. Breeders today are busily seeking a new black tulip because they know that this current standard bearer is probably on her way out. Alexandre Dumas wrote a novel 'The Black Tulip' (in 1850) based on this search.\" (hide spoiler) ] Like most people who have read this book I thought it was a great read - equally fascinating and entertaining. ...more In East Asian cultures \u2013 according to my increasingly Japanese daughters \u2013 the number four brings bad luck. This is because it sounds a bit like the word for death. Clearly the number four has no such associations for Michael Pollan. The Omnivore\u2019s Dilemma is based around four meals and this one is based around four plants. I\u2019ve done more than just enjoy these two books, they have completely enchanted me whilst also informing me and keeping me greatly amused. Now, desire sounds like a strong word In East Asian cultures \u2013 according to my increasingly Japanese daughters \u2013 the number four brings bad luck. This is because it sounds a bit like the word for death. Clearly the number four has no such associations for Michael Pollan. The Omnivore\u2019s Dilemma is based around four meals and this one is based around four plants. I\u2019ve done more than just enjoy these two books, they have completely enchanted me whilst also informing me and keeping me greatly amused. Now, desire sounds like a strong word to use about botany. There is, of course, that Frank Zappa song Call Any Vegetable and it will respond to you \u2013 I think this is also the song which ends with the memorable line, \u201cO what a pumpkin!\u201d Now that isn\u2019t quite the desire Pollan is talking about here. His four plants are: the apple, the tulip, marijuana and the potato. As a one time Irishman I have no problem with the idea that the potato might make the list of plants of desire, but I can see that others might struggle most with that one being included. This book is based on the idea that plants use us as much as we use them \u2013 and the plants best able to meet our desires are the plants we help most to spread about the world. So much so that we tend to make monocultures of those plants that best match our desires \u2013 something that is arguably as much a problem for the plants as it is a boon for them. Do you know when you sort of know the story to something, even if you don\u2019t quite know the details? I had that kind of relationship with the story of Johnny Appleseed (aka John Chapman). While I had some notion of him going around frontier America planting apple seeds (and ten points for promoting dental health) he was never really going to cut it beside, say, Daniel Boone (what a dream come-er-true-er was he!). Little did I know that rather than being a man dedicated to the random distribution of apple seeds, he actually sold apple trees to pioneers (when not considering matrimony with stray 10 year olds). Pioneers were keen to buy the said apple trees not due to the dearth of doctors being kept away by all those apples being eaten, but rather the equally troubling shortage of bartenders. Apples being as good a way as any to make a pleasant alcoholic drink \u2013 and one that wasn\u2019t complained about in the Bible. It is here that Pollan develops one of his major metaphors \u2013 borrowed from Nietzsche (that most popular of masturbatory German philosophers) of the dichotomy between the Apollonian and the Dionysian. I\u2019ve generally found this to be one of the more lucid and intelligent things Nietzsche ever said and so wasn\u2019t disappointed that so much time was devoted to this idea in this book. Basically, Apollo was the god of order and light, Dionysus the god of wine and orgies. Our obsession with growing the same potato all over the world to make the perfect McDonalds fry is symbolic of the Apollonian desire \u2013 Johnny Appleseed growing apple trees from seed and thereby getting a vast number of genetically different trees symbolic of the Dionysian. This central tension forms a large part of the basis of the book. It proves an interesting thing to say about Tulips too, and obviously also of marijuana. I guess it is possible that if Dionysus was with us today he might well be a pot head. The stuff about marijuana is very interesting. Particularly the fact that it has become about 10 times more potent over the years and that this increase in potency is directly attributable to the \u2018war on drugs\u2019. Pollan makes an interesting case for the idea that if the US government hadn\u2019t spent billions of dollars imprisoning its citizens and fighting a war it could never win, pot would still be coming into the States from Mexico and would not have been bred up to being the super drug it is today. Pollan says that his initial reaction to smoking pot was much the same as mine has always been. That its main effects seemed to be to make me feel paranoid and stupid. Having been brought up in the loony left I really didn\u2019t need chemistry to help me be paranoid, or stupid, for that matter. Apparently, this is because on the rare occasions when I did smoke pot I was smoking \u2018blue collar\u2019 marijuana. Which is probably for the best. Again, as with the apples and the tulips, I did know much of the story of marijuana before I started reading, but not really all of the details. The story of tulips causing a major economic bubble is worth reflecting on at the moment. The plants themselves are equally fascinating, as are little facts gleaned along the way about depression and plant viruses. But the section on the potato is riveting \u2013 and not just for the Irish. This is similar to the first section of The Omnivore\u2019s Dilemma on corn. We really are going to have to do something about the way we produce food \u2013 and if you need to know why, then reading this chapter will make it all clear. If the only way we can grow potatoes for McDonald\u2019s fries is to kill the planet then perhaps (and this is just a suggestion) we shouldn\u2019t be eating McDonald\u2019s fries. I think I liked The Omnivore\u2019s Dilemma better than this one, but really, they were both fascinating and well worth the read. ...more <+++>The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World</+++> by Michael Pollan introduces the possibility to the reader that plants are using insects, animals and humans to ensure their own survival. An interesting book about the symbiosis between all living organism and how Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory of natural selection is happening. In The Botany of Desire, Michael Pollan ingeniously demonstrates how people and domesticated plants have formed a similarly reciprocal relationship. He master <+++>The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World</+++> by Michael Pollan introduces the possibility to the reader that plants are using insects, animals and humans to ensure their own survival. An interesting book about the symbiosis between all living organism and how Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory of natural selection is happening. In The Botany of Desire, Michael Pollan ingeniously demonstrates how people and domesticated plants have formed a similarly reciprocal relationship. He masterfully links four fundamental human desires\u2014sweetness, beauty, intoxication, and control\u2014with the plants that satisfy them: the apple, the tulip, marijuana, and the potato. In telling the stories of four familiar species, Pollan illustrates how the plants have evolved to satisfy humankind\u2019s most basic yearnings. And just as we\u2019ve benefited from these plants, we have also done well by them. So who is really domesticating whom? What the author did in the book is to address the hybridizing of plant species to fit our needs. Although domesticated plants have been multiplied at a much greater rate than in nature, they also stand to disappear due to over-hybridization. This is highlighted in this book. Hail to Flora, the Roman goddess of flowers! How plants manipulate us, as well as animals and insects are riveting reading for sure. But how we domesticated plants, and the consequences of our own actions, are much more disturbing. Watch this documentary for a fascinating insight into this part of plant behaviour. The information in this document is much more detailed than the book and one of my favorites. If you watched this documentary, you will get a much better idea of how it works. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q-4w5... I would suggest that you watch the video mentioned above, after, or before, you read this book. It is indeed a fascinating world to get involved in, even if you only want to read about it. Plants have souls and feelings. That's the bottomline! :-)) There so many anecdotes I can share concerning the interaction between plants, animals, insects and humans, that it will require a book to do so. So I will unhappily sit on my hands and just allow the urge pass me by for now! :-)) You probably will have to read the book, yes, definitely read the book. It's a great start. The author approached his subject with sensitivity and great care. I'm jumping on my soapbox here, but to save you the pain, I have added my thoughts and comments in a spoiler. If you read it, I thank you, if you don't it's okay too. (view spoiler) [ One comment in the book made me sit up straight. Had me hackles raised. :-) It's losing a star as a result. I've sent an excerpt of the book to 30 botanist friends from all over the world, who worked with me on an international DNA project of the natural flora in our country, and just loved the reactions. Serious researchers, doing their jobs for decades, could not believe this assumption made in the book: According to Jack Goody, an English anthropologist ...who has studied the role of flowers in most of the world\u2019s cultures\u2014East and West, past and present\u2014the love of flowers is almost, but not quite, universal. The \u201cnot quite\u201d refers to Africa, where, Goody writes in 'The Culture of Flowers', flowers play almost no part in religious observance or everyday social ritual. (The exceptions are those parts of Africa that came into early contact with other civilizations\u2014the Islamic north, for example.) Africans seldom grow domesticated flowers, and flower imagery seldom shows up in African art or religion. Apparently when Africans speak or write about flowers, it is usually with an eye to the promise of fruit rather than the thing itself. That is certainly an interesting, and true statement. However, the next paragraph had us all gasping for air. Dumbfounded! ... the ecology of Africa doesn\u2019t offer a lot of flowers, or at least not a lot of showy ones. Relatively few of the world\u2019s domesticated flowers have come from Africa, and the range of flower species on the continent is nowhere near as extensive as it is in, say, Asia or even North America. What flowers one does encounter on the savanna, for example, tend to bloom briefly and then vanish for the duration of the dry season. My first thought was that an anthropologist won't know that more than 80% of the \u00b1 2400 Pelargonium species originate in southern Africa; numerous orchards, too many to list here, horde of proteas, ericas, lilies, flowering trees, and hundreds of highly sought-after succulents come from dear mother Africa. Some of the international well-known botanists' comments (which can be shared publicly, the rest is unpublishable!) : -- \"I read that piece. It is nonsense.\" -- \"Badly written and poorly researched is my comment!\" -- \"Africa is the best at all things natural, most especially flowers. I think they are also missing that flowers are attached to plants and we Africans have been more interested in the other parts as they hold the goodies that cure us of almost any illness. We used the flowers to help us get to the right plant. It has been so tied up in African culture that it is magical and mysterious \u2013 sangoma style \u2013 so the knowledge never made it into books.\" -- \"We laugh at this book from a dizzy height!\" Nevertheless, let's leave it at that. Michael Pollan concentrates on four domesticated plants and their uses to humans. The philosophy, history, and huge impact the plants had on human survival is discussed with a focus on the uses which satisfied mankind's four basic needs: sweetness, beauty, intoxication, and control. He confirms why it has become highly essential to preserve the original plant species in nature. The more plants are altered, the less chance there is of the species to survive-a dangerous situation for both this planet and mankind. Hybridization also happens in nature. For instance, bees pollinate a different variety of one species with the result of new species developing from it. Crassulas, in nature, is a prime example of this. So many cross-breeds develop that it is a headache for botanists to identify those species correctly. Most people in the world are not aware of the huge challenges facing global food production. More than 60% of the world's population currently reside in cities, with little or no access to land. Countries, such as Japan, have already began to expand vertically, and not horizontally. A complete city, providing housing, schools, hospital and shopping areas are provided in high-rise buildings. There is simply not enough space horizontally anymore to expand. Another current trend worldwide is for people to move out of suburbs into inner cities again. It is predicted that suburbs will become the future slums. Highways, the cost of vehicles, fuel and traffic congestion, the decline in oil resources, are discouraging the future development of more suburbs. Many boarded-up or abandoned houses can be found everywhere. Huge inner slums and squatter camps are popping up all over the world as a result of uncontrolled population growth, unemployment, job losses and lack of job opportunities. Urban people are more and more unable to propagate their own food. Add to that the limited areas suitable for agriculture in the world, with limited water resources, and the picture becomes a little more complicated. While the world's human population increases at an alarming rate, the agricultural land to produce food for the masses do not. As a result it was necessary to develop plants that could produce more fruits on the same parcel of land and have new possibilities to protect themselves against water restrictions and pests. Extended families do not manage farms anymore. Farmers are forced to mechanize, which is not only expensive, but also detrimental to oil resources in the world. A staggering number of farmers are leaving the industry annually due to the high costs and low profits (or no profits) in food production. In hybridization, and the very expensive research to accomplish the outcomes, different plants are used to cross-breed in order to address the challenges. For instance, the DNA of one plant which has a natural defense against pests are bred with another plant which do not have the ability. My husband produced hybridized seeds of tomatoes which produced uniform color and fruit size and had a longer shelf life. I cannot name the company who sponsored it (not Monsanto), but can mention that a cantaloupe gene was used to accomplish this - another edible fruit. In pumpkin hybrids two different varieties were used to produce a uniform, round pumpkin which which was smaller in size and could fit into a shopping bag so that the consumer could handle it. The author mentions an incident he read about in which the DNA of fireflies were added to tobacco plants! My philosophy is: if you haven't seen it with your own eyes, don't spread the story! I almost lost interest in this book after reading that. However, the author made the effort to visit the research facilities of the Monsanto company, interviewed farmers, and made an effort to understand what is recently done to increase food production and the methods that is used. He states that unrelated species in nature cannot be crossed. But then alleges that Monsanto crossed that barrier. \"Nature\", he says, \"exercise a kind of veto over what culture can do with a potato.\" Donkeys and horses were cross-bred, but the resulting animal were sterile. That's a fact in nature. I agree with the author's statement: All domesticated plants are in some sense artifical, living archives of both cultural and natural information that people have helped to \"design\". Any given type of potato reflects the human desires that have been bred into it. There is sadly not enough space left on earth to allow people each a piece of land and enough water to produce their own food. We cannot go back to wearing natural fibers, since there are not enough grazing or space, once again, to keep the animals on that land which will produce those needed fibers. That's the bottom line. Too many people, too little natural resources. For instance, if we allow 7 billion people to strip mine plants in trying to return to natural medicines, there will be nothing left of nature. It is therefore essential that everything we use be produced commercially in particular agricultural zones all over the world, and to protect natural fauna and flora in designated protected zones. We have to hybridize to survive as the human race. For the past seventy years it has become necessary and the challenge will be bigger in future. Humans are already dependent on it and there's no way out of it. If you are fortunate enough to have space for your own fruit and vegetable garden, make use of it to plant your own food. Use vintage seed and go organic, since you do not have to produce masses of fruits and vegetables for billions of people living in urban areas with limited space. Organic farming is labor intensive. Commercial farmers do not have enough labor resources to do the same. The good news is that more and more commercial farmers are moving away from monocultural farming, with more involvement in the agronomic side of soil management. Biodiversity is making a comeback. In the end, it is obvious from the discussions in the book, why Africa is still the cradle of mankind. Not mentioned in the book, it is just my own reaction. In Africa, people did not 'listen' to the flowers to spread them in unnatural selections. Africans had a vast knowledge of the value of plants in their natural state, for thousands of years, used it for various purposes, still do, but allowed the plants to remain part of the natural biodiversity around them. In fact, should an apocalypse hit this planet, it will be the people who respected the natural laws, who would survive. And that will be the Africans, most probably. They did not change nature, and lived in harmony with it all their lives. The message I take from the book, as an African and naturalist, is that my continent knew what they were doing when they left nature alone. Perhaps they were not left behind, they were in fact far ahead in time! Oh well, it is something to think about, at least. (hide spoiler) ] I enjoyed the book and recommend it for sure. Sometimes there are fairy tales in real life. Just listen to the flowers! ...more I've wanted to read this book ever since it came out, but, so far, I've been pretty deeply disappointed by it. From the jacket copy and reviews I'd read, I'd come to expect a poetic lay-science book about the entwined destinies of plants and humans. Hell, that's what the author's introduction led me to expect, too. I did not expect, nor want, most of the chapter on the apple to be more concerned about the historical realities of Johnny Appleseed than with the apple itself. I didn't want the autho I've wanted to read this book ever since it came out, but, so far, I've been pretty deeply disappointed by it. From the jacket copy and reviews I'd read, I'd come to expect a poetic lay-science book about the entwined destinies of plants and humans. Hell, that's what the author's introduction led me to expect, too. I did not expect, nor want, most of the chapter on the apple to be more concerned about the historical realities of Johnny Appleseed than with the apple itself. I didn't want the author to neglect almost the whole history of the fruit before 1776, by virtue, apparently, of being too lazy to do more than pay lip service to anything that didn't happen in America. If I hear one more cute little musing about Johnny Appleseed, I will start seriously considering not listening to this book anymore. ...I hope the damned thing gets more interesting in the next chapter, that's all I'm saying. But I don't have very high hopes. (Updated: I don't think I ever even finished the dratted thing.) ...more Four common plants and I didn't know they each held such a rich history. Well, I was kind of familiar with marijuana's development (not from personal toking, honest Asian, but from being surrounded by tokers - hey, it was Oregon) and that it was completely villified in the \"just say no\" era of drug awareness education. The chapters on the apple, tulip, and potato offer cautionary evidence on the danger of destroying diversity in the name of commerce. Dratted industry and their shipping lives, ap Four common plants and I didn't know they each held such a rich history. Well, I was kind of familiar with marijuana's development (not from personal toking, honest Asian, but from being surrounded by tokers - hey, it was Oregon) and that it was completely villified in the \"just say no\" era of drug awareness education. The chapters on the apple, tulip, and potato offer cautionary evidence on the danger of destroying diversity in the name of commerce. Dratted industry and their shipping lives, appearance over taste, money over environmental responsibility; dratted consumers and our being trapped in busy schedules, cheap produce, the quick&easy, the short range. Even though I'm probably being manipulated by the plants, I still want a garden in which to spread their genetic material. Plant pimp? If only. On the subject of plants causing us to help them multiply by being appealing to us: I view this language as couching the concept in terms that we might understand, finding a common thread and expounding. I don't imagine Mr. Pollan meant plants as willfully selecting the characteristics that would cause us to replant and increase year after year. It's supposed to be a mutually beneficial interaction. If they could effect deliberate change in us, would they let us spray potatoes like that or make the mealy Red Delicious, I'm sure it was once actually delicious, the most common apple in US supermarkets? I wonder what it would be like if plants could fight us. Or maybe our dependence on the few varieties that now have weaknesses engendered by continuous cloning/inbreeding will result in a plant-revenge. ...more Wow! Just wow! This was another museum book club pick from our Minneapolis Institute of Art; while I like Michael Pollan it's unlikely I would have otherwise read this fascinating book. Even the description made it look doubtful that it would be my cup of tea. Boy, was I wrong! Pollan looks at four human desires and four plants that satisfy those desires to explore the interdependence of humans and plants. The desires/plants are Sweet/Apple, Beauty/Tulip, Intoxication/Cannabis and Control/Potato. Wow! Just wow! This was another museum book club pick from our Minneapolis Institute of Art; while I like Michael Pollan it's unlikely I would have otherwise read this fascinating book. Even the description made it look doubtful that it would be my cup of tea. Boy, was I wrong! Pollan looks at four human desires and four plants that satisfy those desires to explore the interdependence of humans and plants. The desires/plants are Sweet/Apple, Beauty/Tulip, Intoxication/Cannabis and Control/Potato. He busts the myth of Johnny Appleseed, shows how Tulipomania was the tech bubble of 17th century Dutch society, tells how cannabis produces the crystal clarity experienced by users and how it's different from others drugs and illustrates the historical folly of man's quest to industrialize food production by creating botanical mono-cultures. My hunch is after reading this you will never eat a commercially grown potato again! Pollan concludes that while humans believe in our ultimate control over plants, plants have equal influence on the destiny of mankind. Biodiversity is his premise and the story he tells to convince us of this will stick with me for a long time. ...more As beguiling as the plants this book enlightened me about Pollan represents one of my favorite types of writers: modern polymaths who can bring scientific, historic and literary knowledge to bear on whatever they're writing about. When it's done well, I don't care what the question is; for instance, tulips aren't really my thing, despite their presence on my dining room table right now. The conversation between history, literature and science really interests me, though, which is why nearly all of the books I read fall into one of those categories. (Tha Pollan represents one of my favorite types of writers: modern polymaths who can bring scientific, historic and literary knowledge to bear on whatever they're writing about. When it's done well, I don't care what the question is; for instance, tulips aren't really my thing, despite their presence on my dining room table right now. The conversation between history, literature and science really interests me, though, which is why nearly all of the books I read fall into one of those categories. (That's sortof a joke.) But I couldn't get into the first half of Botany of Desire, and the reason is that the book is padded. I've been curious about the reality behind the Johnny Appleseed legend, so it's terrific that he delved into it - but it would have made a great ten-page essay. Pollan stretches it for nearly 60 pages. He repeats himself (a lot); he circles around; he includes details about people he's met that are irrelevant and not all that interesting. So far, so three star book. The section on pot, though, gets hilariously loopier. Halfway through this chapter - after an interesting history of what the War on Drugs has done for pot, and right at the point where, in other chapters, he would have started to repeat himself - he instead ends up in Amsterdam, trying the new breeds of pot for the first time, apparently, in years, and the rest of the chapter is one long, adoring love letter to the glories of weed, written while ecstatically baked. Non-pot-fans might find this chapter less endearing than I did, but for me, as a casual fan of the drug and, more importantly, as a guy who finds the question of what mind-altering drugs do for us interesting, it was the best part of the book. Too bad he still can't get past the slightly apologetic tone most grown-ups who still smoke pot feel forced to adopt - why not just mention it matter-of-factly as a normal thing many people do? That is, after all, what it is. But still. Fun stuff. The final chapter on potatoes contains some of the usual \"Holy shit, we have no idea what we're doing\" stuff on genetic engineering, and there's a \"sky is falling\" feel to it that made me roll my eyes, but his take on in it is interesting enough. I dug this book. ...more I really enjoyed this book (and enjoyed the lecture I attended when the author talked about the book and answered questions.) He talks about 4 crops: apples, potatoes, tulips and marijuana, and the interactions between them and humans: history, culture, human psychology, and science, etc. I knew nothing much about botany and have never been particularly interested in that branch of science, but this book was a very easy read and I found it extremely fascinating. Gave it as a gift on a couple of I really enjoyed this book (and enjoyed the lecture I attended when the author talked about the book and answered questions.) He talks about 4 crops: apples, potatoes, tulips and marijuana, and the interactions between them and humans: history, culture, human psychology, and science, etc. I knew nothing much about botany and have never been particularly interested in that branch of science, but this book was a very easy read and I found it extremely fascinating. Gave it as a gift on a couple of occasions after I read it. ...more this was like NPR in printed form, and felt intended to be read in that medium. the potato chapter was great, the marijuana chapter irritating, the tulip chapter needlessly verbose (but full of some of the book's best trivia), the apple chapter...quixotic. it's all grotesquely bucolic, and the lack of any synthesis at the end left me underwhelmed. short, and by all means worth reading if it's all you have available. I couldn't get into this book at all and gave up reading it after the first chapter. The premise was a good one, but Pollan's writing style drove me up the wall. I called it quits when he started analogizing Johnny Appleseed and Dionysius. Too much navel-gazing and not enough substance. This is the best piece of anything that I've ever read on gardening, even though its not entirely on gardening. Aside from making me incredibly sad at not having a garden patch anymore in my home and having to contend with purchased pots and soil, this book was a delightful read. Michael Pollan takes a simple question - Have we domesticated plants or have plants domesticated us?- and to make a case for the latter, provides us with a heady mix of history,science,philosophy,botany,literature and w This is the best piece of anything that I've ever read on gardening, even though its not entirely on gardening. Aside from making me incredibly sad at not having a garden patch anymore in my home and having to contend with purchased pots and soil, this book was a delightful read. Michael Pollan takes a simple question - Have we domesticated plants or have plants domesticated us?- and to make a case for the latter, provides us with a heady mix of history,science,philosophy,botany,literature and what not, punctuating the text with juicy anecdotes, which I must say made for a truly spell-binding read. The bumblebee thinks that he is the subject in the garden and the bloom he's plundering for its drop of nectar is the object. But we know that this is just a failure of his imagination. The truth of the matter is that the flower has cleverly manipulated the bee into hauling its pollen from blossom to blossom. And so it is with us. There is no subject and no object. The grammar is all wrong. We plant and disperse the apple, thinking we act from our volition, yet from the apple's point of view, it has enticed us through its bribe of sweetness to further its propagation. It has played upon our desire. The same can be said of every other plant \"domesticated\" by humans. Of course, this idea is not Pollen's and it has been in existence for centuries right from the Vedic times, but the way he does the exposition through the 4 sections of this book- Apple, Tulip, Marijuana and Potato- is what is so good about this book. Failed miserably in trying to pick a clear favourite among the 4 sections. The Apple section dealt with the incredible life of Johnny Appleseed and the apple's journey from its original home in the wilderness of Kazakhstan- the way it was told was nothing short of an immigration drama, and apple-human games which have largely if not completely determined the Apple's biodiversity or the lack of it.The Tulip section focusses on why on earth humans have been so fascinated with flowers and even let their desire for flowers result in great economic collapses like the infamous Dutch Tulipomania. The section on Marijuana will definitely convince most people that US Government officials and politicians who brought about Cannabis illegalization not just in US but subsequently in countries like India where people have been using it for eons, were either nuts or downright maniacal. And the potato section was downright scary. One heck of a captivating read! ...more A brief but compelling history of four plants whose genetic destiny has been markedly altered by man \u2013 the apple, the tulip, cannabis, and the potato. Pollan\u2019s argument is that, though we see domestication as a strictly top-down, subject-to-object process, there really may also be some co-evolutionary force at work. Johnny Appleseed\u2019s efforts were to the overwhelming advantage of apple genetic proliferation, and the science of mass potato farming means more seeds are planted every year. But we\u2019l A brief but compelling history of four plants whose genetic destiny has been markedly altered by man \u2013 the apple, the tulip, cannabis, and the potato. Pollan\u2019s argument is that, though we see domestication as a strictly top-down, subject-to-object process, there really may also be some co-evolutionary force at work. Johnny Appleseed\u2019s efforts were to the overwhelming advantage of apple genetic proliferation, and the science of mass potato farming means more seeds are planted every year. But we\u2019ll get to the argument bit in a minute. As quirky, offbeat history, this is fabulous. It turns out botany is an incredibly versatile vehicle in which to travel from social psychology to religion to bioethics. Pollan makes fascinating detours through early American advertising schemes, pauses briefly to describe the hallucinogenic mixture of mushrooms and opium European witches would administer via dildo, and then hops blithely on to the cost-benefit economics of potato plants engineered to make their own pesticide. It\u2019s a wonderfully engaging trip, made all the more so by Pollan\u2019s lucid, thoughtful, frankly lovely writing. I haven\u2019t enjoyed a spot of nonfiction prose on a purely esthetic level in a long time, and for that pleasure alone I could recommend this book. As for the argument \u2013 how best to put this \u2013 it\u2019s not so much one. This whole co-evolution idea occurred to Pollan one day as he was gardening, and it never really leaves the realm of warm afternoon, busy hands, strange and intriguing thought. The whole thing comes out interesting, undeniably pretty, but ultimately nothing more than an intellectual exercise. An exercise I enjoyed, mind you, but I\u2019m really not after musings over the Apollonian and Dionysian paradigms in my discussions of anything related to evolution: I\u2019m after, you know, scientifically sound genotypic mechanisms. But like I said, I was perfectly happy to go along. I just fervently hope no one came away from this book believing this is what is meant by \u201ctheory of evolution.\u201d Eclectic, engaging subject matter. A bit of pleasant but deeply fluffy intellectual masturbation tacked around the edges for an excuse. Wonderful writing. A good time, all around. ...more I read this a few days after \"The Omnivore's Dilemma\", and began it the day after picking up \"In Defense of Food\". I loved the former, thought the latter was thin and a resaying of what he'd already said. This book was a beautiful book, though not the tome that O.D was, it's beautifully written. It also sets the stage nicely for O.D. Here, using apples (with their amazing capacity to evolve based on seeds that don't grow true to the parent), tuplips, cannabis and potatoes Pollan sets out plainly I read this a few days after \"The Omnivore's Dilemma\", and began it the day after picking up \"In Defense of Food\". I loved the former, thought the latter was thin and a resaying of what he'd already said. This book was a beautiful book, though not the tome that O.D was, it's beautifully written. It also sets the stage nicely for O.D. Here, using apples (with their amazing capacity to evolve based on seeds that don't grow true to the parent), tuplips, cannabis and potatoes Pollan sets out plainly the case that Richard Attenborough made several years before: that both humans and the foods they eat co-evolve. In the final chapter, he begins to describe the connundrum of monoculture that he deals a death-blow to in O.D (in that anyone who reads it will understand for once and for all what a death-blow to humanity monoculture is). I loved this beautiful book. ...more Pollan's The Botany of Desire is by far one of the best books I have ever read, and it is one of those books that has changed my world view for the better. Pollan takes his readers on an odyssey through the natural histories of four plants that have been important to the course of human history, and relates them to a certain form of desire that he believes to be inherent in each and every person. He chronicles the potato (sustenance), the tulip (beauty), cannabis (pleasure), and the apple (sweet Pollan's The Botany of Desire is by far one of the best books I have ever read, and it is one of those books that has changed my world view for the better. Pollan takes his readers on an odyssey through the natural histories of four plants that have been important to the course of human history, and relates them to a certain form of desire that he believes to be inherent in each and every person. He chronicles the potato (sustenance), the tulip (beauty), cannabis (pleasure), and the apple (sweetness). His prose is unrivaled, and he draws readers into his narrative with seamless ease. ...more Michael Pollan approaches the relationship between plants and humans through the aperture of the plant. The altered perspective displays the multiple props of genetic diversity \u2014 color, shape, size, fragrance, taste and robustness \u2014 offered to seduce the gardener's favors. Of course Pollan realizes that intent cannot be ascribed to the plant. These are merely the standard tools available to the plant for survival and procreation. \u201dOur desires are simply more grist for evolution's mill, no differ Michael Pollan approaches the relationship between plants and humans through the aperture of the plant. The altered perspective displays the multiple props of genetic diversity \u2014 color, shape, size, fragrance, taste and robustness \u2014 offered to seduce the gardener's favors. Of course Pollan realizes that intent cannot be ascribed to the plant. These are merely the standard tools available to the plant for survival and procreation. \u201dOur desires are simply more grist for evolution's mill, no different from a change in the weather: a peril for some species, an opportunity for others.\u201d (xxi) Nevertheless, this novel perspective shifts the focus away from a narrative of static human mastery to a dynamic Pollan calls the coevolutionary relationship. Pollan divides his exploration into four sections whose titles are consistent with his theme. The third section is titled \u201cDesire: Intoxication/Plant: Marijuana.\u201d Some readers might be tempted to skip ahead to this intriguing chapter. Don't! What looks at first glance like four separate essays are carefully structured stories of historical change reflecting abstract and ironic connections. The apple of chapter 1 is a plant of extreme biodiversity. The five seeds of a single fruit are a roll of the genetic dice. To bear fruit that resemble the parent apple, the tree must be grafted, a technique developed by the Chinese by the dawn of their dynastic history. This extreme biodiversity enabled the apple to adapt. The seeds John Chapman planted with both evangelical and entrepreneurial zeal sprouted all manner of fruit, most of it harvested for cider. Its familiarity was a welcome symbol of civilization. By contrast \u201cDesire: Control/Plant: The Potato (chapter four) chronicles a recurring tragedy of monoculture. The tulip of chapter two and marijuana of chapter three, two unlikely fellow-travelers, have obverse stories that intersect in Holland. Pollan reminds the readers of changes now taken for granted. Gardens were not always landscaped for aesthetic appeal. Plants were prized for their utility. Not only did they provide food, but they were an important source for apothecary experiment. Sweetness was once a metaphor for rarity and perfection, as in the Shakespearean sense. This was before plentiful cheap sugar reduced the sensation to something commonplace and without nuance. (Talk to a Japanese person and she will aver that Japanese desserts have a \u201cdifferent\u201d kind of sweetness if you doubt the flavor's true complexity). \u201dLike a shimmering equal sign, the word sweetness denoted a reality commensurate with human desire: it stood for fulfillment. Since then sweetness has lost much of its power and become slightly \u2026 well, saccarine.\u201d The Incas were model farmers. They combated mountainous terrain, variegated microclimates and plant infestation by planting multiple varieties of potato. Hence, the affliction that destroyed them was not a potato famine. Of course no account of the tulip would be complete without a review of tulipomania. Pollan travels the route of John Chapman through the then Northwest Territory and journeys to Idaho and Holland to interview modern day growers. He also inserts colorful and truly funny anecdotes from his own garden. His chapter on marijuana is a sobering reflection on the effects of a misguided public policy, and a fascinating look at ongoing research in neuroscience. Finally, his thoughts on genetic engineering are thought provoking. He presents the efforts of genetic engineers, commercial growers and small-scale organic farmers with depth and objectivity. Pollan's writing is transcendent. He is informative, poetic and philosophical. His phrasings are experiences to be savored over and over again. ...more just as a warning, the below is not really about the book by pollan at all (which is great, btw!), but is mostly some really juvenile hatin' on thoreau. so if you read it, shut up, i warned you; i needed to get some trash-talking out of my system before going on w/ my day. ********* so i cannot, for the life of me, read thoreau. & this may not be entirely his fault. it may not just be that i find him frustratingly ignorant, pompous, rambling, lacking cohesion & coherence, more irritatingly just as a warning, the below is not really about the book by pollan at all (which is great, btw!), but is mostly some really juvenile hatin' on thoreau. so if you read it, shut up, i warned you; i needed to get some trash-talking out of my system before going on w/ my day. ********* so i cannot, for the life of me, read thoreau. & this may not be entirely his fault. it may not just be that i find him frustratingly ignorant, pompous, rambling, lacking cohesion & coherence, more irritatingly than profoundly w/out style, hypocritical, blah blah blah... because when i think these things i assume it's at least partly because i'm either too stupid or too culturally vapid to \"get it\" (tho in this case that theory's feeling a little stretched). to be fair, ht also has pretty shit luck w/ me. when i finally got around to reading a full collection of his essays this week it was for a class, making this the first time i can EVER IN MY LIFE remember reading something i didn't want to read (so of course, irritatedface); i was also around 3/4 of the way thru when i picked up a copy of the botany of desire , which makes the former collection look like preschool sketchwork & illustrates perfectly my theory that michael pollan's nature writings (his less overtly-about-agribusiness writings) are thoreau minus suck. so now i'm pretty much ruined for thoreau, even tho pollan quotes him & references him & generally seems to boycrush on him. whatever, michael pollan; you may not be happy about it, but you've allowed me to feel WAY SUPER COMFY about my visceral hatred for such essays as \"walking,\" which, even if i'm humming along comfortably for a while, underlining & marking, suddenly breaks out such gems as \"I THINK THAT THE FARMER DISPLACES THE INDIAN EVEN BECAUSE HE REDEEMS THE MEADOW, AND SO MAKES HIMSELF STRONGER AND IN SOME RESPECTS MORE NATURAL\" (caps & emphasis mine, obvs), or the bullshit about the \"weapons\" ( \"the bush-whack, the turf-cutter, the spade, and the bog-hoe, rusted with the blood of many a meadow\" ) that make the farmer's ability to \"redeem\" nature far superior to the unskilled following of the indian to natural occurring sources of food, or whatever fuck'd & self-contradictory political ramblings, oh my GOD i am so grossed out. thoreau, you were probably a pretty cool dude once, but right now you seem like a libertarian w/ out the constitution, a naturalist w/out a respect for (or knowledge of) real nature, a man opposed to the press who finds himself entrenched in its habits. i will \"appreciate your relevance\" but i will not like you, & i will only ever read you when people make me, because michael pollan is like you if you were educated & relevant (but i know, dude, \"every thought that passes through the mind helps to wear and tear it\" - !!!!!!), if you were capable of transitions, if you cut out yr empty lines of political propaganda, if you were able to integrate culture & history & politics & mythology & science & some openly speculative musings into something enjoyable to read, if you didn't sound like such an obnoxious little fucker. you are gross, pollan is sexy, the end. now i'm going to go lie on the beach w/ a good book, goddamn it. ...more Highly recommended reading for anyone who's ever eaten or seen a plant! Wonderful, wonderful book, full of fantastic info and insights. My main critique is Pollan's main conceit, and the language used to express it: plant species have domesticated humanity just as much as humanity has domesticated them. My problem is his constant insertion of agency into the process of evolution and mixing metaphors of individuals and of species. Flowers are not individually clever, and neither are species of flowers. Flowers do not manipulate bees in the same way that a botanist ma Wonderful, wonderful book, full of fantastic info and insights. My main critique is Pollan's main conceit, and the language used to express it: plant species have domesticated humanity just as much as humanity has domesticated them. My problem is his constant insertion of agency into the process of evolution and mixing metaphors of individuals and of species. Flowers are not individually clever, and neither are species of flowers. Flowers do not manipulate bees in the same way that a botanist manipulates a flower species through artificial selection or genetic modification. Species do not have agency, the will to act. Only individuals have that, and individuals bees, potatoes, or water buffalo do not (to our knowledge), willfully offer themselves up as partners to humanity. Pollan draws an interesting distinction that I haven't encountered in my amateur meanderings between \"wilderness\" and \"wildness.\" He uses \"wilderness\" in the sense of the Wilderness Act of 1964, \"an area where the earth and its community of life are untrammeled by man, where man himself is a visitor who does not remain.\" \"Wildness,\" on the other hand, is anything that humans cannot control. As Bill McKibben famously pointed out, the atmosphere of our planet is no longer a wilderness, tainted as it is by the byproducts of our industry, but as every hurricane and tornado reminds us, it is still profoundly wild. Pollan uses this distinction to emphasize that while all domestication is a destruction of wilderness, it is almost never an abolition of wildness. The gardener uses his sense of order not to control his plants absolutely, but to guide and shape their wildness in certain ways. He goes on to suggest that genetic engineering may violate this pact, that by attempting to guide evolution on such a basic level is a powerful new way to write wildness out of the equation. He also offers the counterpoint that current techniques for gene insertion are (sometimes literally) so scattershot as to yield results that are even less predictable that conventional breeding. The topic of wilderness feeds into another interesting point, which is that \"memory is the enemy of wonder\" (168). He argues that cannabinoids like THC help us experience awe and wonder by forcing constant short term memory loss, and that meditation or physical exertion probably induce the same effect, making the view from a mountain peak infinitely more profound after having hiked to it instead of having driven. Another insight he had about marijuana is that drugs could be considered the mutagens of culture. If one assumes a meme is like a gene, then a culture is like a genome. Memes are constantly recombining through thought and discourse (intercourse in both culture and biology), but genuinely new ideas are rare. At the risk of spreading a metaphor too thin, Pollan suggests that drugs could be thought of as mutagens, radiation nuking the genetic fundaments of culture, producing mostly irrelevant or deleterious nonsense, but now and again creating viable gems (149). Kind of a fun thought. ...more The chapter on the apple was sort of enlightening, but had too much obsession with Johnny appleseed. The chapter on Tulips was really boring. Pollan's evolutionary/philosophical speculation in this chapter is all wrong. Many scientific facts, too, are misguided or incorrect. Lots of face-palms. The musings on the effects of Marijuana is really uncomfortable. Pollan obviously wrote this chapter while high. He suggests that meditation can get you high like Marijuana, which just isn't true. He rambles on The chapter on the apple was sort of enlightening, but had too much obsession with Johnny appleseed. The chapter on Tulips was really boring. Pollan's evolutionary/philosophical speculation in this chapter is all wrong. Many scientific facts, too, are misguided or incorrect. Lots of face-palms. The musings on the effects of Marijuana is really uncomfortable. Pollan obviously wrote this chapter while high. He suggests that meditation can get you high like Marijuana, which just isn't true. He rambles on about spirituality, which is bizarre and metaphysical. The potato. Pollan shares with us his ignorance-fueled skepticism about GM crops. He states, falsely, that Monsanto has a patent on the BT gene. In fact, Monsanto's patents cover specific plant genomes with the BT gene inserted at a particular location. The difference being, Monsanto did not come up with the BT gene. What they rightfully call their intellectual property is the work of figuring out how to make the BT gene work inside each plant. Evil patents are no argument against GM crops than they are an argument against pharmaceuticals. His other argument is some philosophical nuance of object vs. subject. He seems to be putting forth an argument for purity. That intentional tampering directly with the genome is different and worse than using \"natural\" techniques like cloning, grafting, crossing, and other forms of artificial selection. Really, there's no functional difference between modifying the sequence of genes with one or another technique. Some techniques, like recombinant genetic engineering, offer more possibilities. Then, he whines about monoculture for a few dozen pages. This part sounds like it's right out of omnivore's dilemma. Apollonian verses Dionysian, blah, blah, blah. I wish Pollan would stick to the fascinating anecdotes. ...more This guy has inspired me to grow my own food and keep a few hens in the backyard. Being a little self-reliant in these unsettling times gives me a sense of stability and hope. In this book, Pollan takes a look at four plants and relates them to human desires, I think . . . He starts things off with the apple and goes into a bit of long-winded ramble about Johnny Appleseed's quest to sell his trees to pioneers and his lust for a 10 year old bride (fortunately this bit wasn't dug into with any sort This guy has inspired me to grow my own food and keep a few hens in the backyard. Being a little self-reliant in these unsettling times gives me a sense of stability and hope. In this book, Pollan takes a look at four plants and relates them to human desires, I think . . . He starts things off with the apple and goes into a bit of long-winded ramble about Johnny Appleseed's quest to sell his trees to pioneers and his lust for a 10 year old bride (fortunately this bit wasn't dug into with any sort of detail). Johnny's enthusiasm for the apple and his desire to plant the seed (and refusal to graft) results in the many varieties that adapted to new climates. Though I'm learning a lot about Johnny here, I'd rather have more factoids about the apple. I'm hoping the following chapters are more interesting because I find my mind wandering more than usual while listening to this. I've now finished up the tulip section and made it about halfway through the marijuana chapter but, at this point, I have come to the realization that this book just doesn't interest me. It's very repetitive and meandering. I'll finish it up and hope the potato's treatment can grab me enough to get through it. Later: I finished up and did find the potato section much more interesting but that's because I'm always interested in GMO foods, the science, the corruption, the danger to our society, the greed . . . I didn't really learn anything new as this was written quite a few years ago but it still captured my attention all the same. ...more In a kind of a meandering, relaxed writing style, Michael Pollan tells the tale of apples, tulips, cannabis, and potatoes and their co-evolution with human desire. Although I agree somewhat with his premise---that plants also influence human desires, not just vice versa---I never found that he fully developed a convincing proof of it. Rather, he just gently threads a tangential narrative about his subjects, as if he were having a conversation with you in his study while looking out the window a In a kind of a meandering, relaxed writing style, Michael Pollan tells the tale of apples, tulips, cannabis, and potatoes and their co-evolution with human desire. Although I agree somewhat with his premise---that plants also influence human desires, not just vice versa---I never found that he fully developed a convincing proof of it. Rather, he just gently threads a tangential narrative about his subjects, as if he were having a conversation with you in his study while looking out the window at his garden. I did enjoy most of it, however, especially the Johnny Appleseed information, though at times I didn't find his narrative especially compelling. His sections on marijuana and the Monsanto NewLeaf potato reveal that he starts his narrative excursions from the standpoint of moderate conservatism, and he usually ends up slightly on the other side, though still keeping it centrist. I think he could definitely use a little more fire under his feet in setting out to write a book. ...more The Botany of Desire was written in language that made it obvious that Michael Pollan likes to hear himself write. His ideas were interesting, following four plants, the potato, cannabis, the apple, and the tulip through their journey with mankind. I like how he approaches the topic, observing not only what people have done to the plants to develop them to our own use, but also how the plants have in some ways used us for their own ends. It is true that we, while we think we are masters of our o The Botany of Desire was written in language that made it obvious that Michael Pollan likes to hear himself write. His ideas were interesting, following four plants, the potato, cannabis, the apple, and the tulip through their journey with mankind. I like how he approaches the topic, observing not only what people have done to the plants to develop them to our own use, but also how the plants have in some ways used us for their own ends. It is true that we, while we think we are masters of our own destinies, are intimately tied to the world around us. there is an ecological cause and effect that often escapes us because of our anthropogenic perspective. My argument with the book is that Pollan overuses imagery from Greek mythology and as a result becomes tedious to read in some sections. By far the most interesting is the last section on the interaction between humanity and the potato. ...more This is an enjoyable book that wanders back and forth through the subjects of botany, history, and literary philosophy. An example of the later is quoted below: \"For look into a flower, and what do you see? Into the very heart of nature's double nature--that is, the contending energies of creation and dissolution, the spring toward complex form and the tidal pull away from it. Apollo and Dionysus were names the Greeks gave to these two faces of nature, and nowhere in nature is their contest as pl This is an enjoyable book that wanders back and forth through the subjects of botany, history, and literary philosophy. An example of the later is quoted below: \"For look into a flower, and what do you see? Into the very heart of nature's double nature--that is, the contending energies of creation and dissolution, the spring toward complex form and the tidal pull away from it. Apollo and Dionysus were names the Greeks gave to these two faces of nature, and nowhere in nature is their contest as plain or as poignant as it is in the beauty of a flower and its rapid passing. There, the achievement of order against all odds and its blithe abandonment. There, the perfection of art and the blind flux of nature. There, somehow, both transcendence and necessity. Could that be it--right there, in a flower--the meaning of life?\" By the time a reader has finished this book they'll know more about apples, tulips, marijuana, and potatoes than ever before. And along the way perhaps the reader will have picked up a slightly enhanced understanding the interaction of humans and plant life. And as indicated in the quote above, they will be introduced to the author's possible insight into the meaning of life. Every topic in this book was subjected to the Apollo vs. Dionysus analysis somewhere along the line. In the section on marijuana the author provides a detailed description of what it means in terms of neurochemistry to be high on marijuana. This information was new to me. I got the impression this subject has not been fully researched and there still remains some speculation in the descriptions. He did make the definitive statement that nobody has ever died from an overdose of THC (active ingredient in marijuana). That certainly cannot be said for alcohol. So why is alcohol legal and marijuana outlawed? They both can pose a danger to society if misused, but one is publicly advertised with the caveat, \"Please drink responsibly.\" The other is a crime to possess or use. Surely there's no rational basis for this difference. The last section on the potato came down pretty hard on genetically engineered plants. I am not as emotionally opposed to this science as some appear to be. I'm in favor of asking questions and looking for problems that may arise. But I'm willing to eat genetically engineered food in the meantime. I figure that if we wait to be absolutely sure of no adverse consequences before using advances in science, all scientific and technological advances will cease. My hat is off to Michael Pollan for being able to write an interesting narrative around rather ordinary topics. He has the skills of a talented story teller to combine historical and scientific facts with tales of his own personal adventures and interviews with other people. I had to give the book five stars because, quite frankly, I found it to be an enjoyable and interesting book. Here's a short review of this book from my PageADay Book Lover's Calendar: THE APPLE TREE\u2019S DILEMMA \u201cWithout flowers, the reptiles, which had gotten along fine in a leafy, fruitless world, would probably still rule. Without flowers, we would not be,\u201d writes Michael Pollan in his absolutely engaging book on the way plants and humans have lived and evolved together. His method is similar to that in The Omnivore\u2019s Dilemma, in that he takes four plants\u2014apples, tulips, marijuana, and potatoes\u2014and gives us their perspective on the complex relationship between plants and humans. Delicious and nutritious reading. THE BOTANY OF DESIRE: A PLANT\u2019S-EYE VIEW OF THE WORLD , by Michael Pollan (Random House, 2002) ...more After reading The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals , I was determined to read more by Michael Pollan . It took me three years to get around to reading this book, but I'm glad I finally did. It's a bit more metaphysical than the other books I've read by him, but still very informative and interesting. I was fascinated by his exploration of the four different kinds of plants and the human desires sated by each. And I was amused by his continual revisitation of the Dionysus/Apollo After reading The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals , I was determined to read more by Michael Pollan . It took me three years to get around to reading this book, but I'm glad I finally did. It's a bit more metaphysical than the other books I've read by him, but still very informative and interesting. I was fascinated by his exploration of the four different kinds of plants and the human desires sated by each. And I was amused by his continual revisitation of the Dionysus/Apollo metaphor throughout the book. interesting quotes: \"So the question arose in my mind that day: Did I choose to plant these potatoes, or did the potato make me do it? In fact, both statements are true...Yet evolution consists of an infinitude of trivial, unconscious events, and in the evolution of the potato my reading of a particular seed catalog on a particular January evening counts as one of them.\" (p. xv) \"Domesticated species don't command our respect the way their wild cousins often do. Evolution may reward interdependence, but our thinking selves continue to prize self-reliance. The wolf is somehow more impressive than the dog. Yet there are fifty million dogs in America today, only ten thousand wolves. So what does the dog know about getting along in this world that its wild ancestor doesn't? The big thing the dog knows about-the subject matter it has mastered in the ten thousand years it has been evolving at our side-is us: our needs and desires, our emotions and values, all of which it has folded into its genes as part of a sophisticated strategy for survival.\" (pp. xvi-xvii) \"The four desires I explore here are sweetness , broadly defined, in the story of the apple; beauty in the tulip's; intoxication in the story of cannibis; and control in the story of the potato-specifically, in the story of a genetically altered potato I grew in my garden to see where the ancient arts of domestication may now be headed. (p. xviii) \"Every wild apple shrub excites our expectations thus,\" Thoreau wrote, \"somewhat as every wild child. It is, perhaps, a prince in disguise. What a lesson to man!...Poets and philosophers and statesmen thus spring up in the country pastures, and outlast the hosts of unoriginal men.\" (p. 45) \"Symmetry is an unmistakable sign that there's relevant information in a place. That's because symmetry is a property shared by a relatively small number of things in the landscape, all of them of keen interest to us. The shortlist of nature's symmetricals includes other creatures, other people (most notably the faces of other people), human artifacts, and plants--but especially flowers. Symmetry is also a sign of health in a creature, since mutations and environmental stresses can easily disturb it. So paying attention to symmetrical things makes good sense: symmetry is usually significant.\" (p. 76) \"Though we self-importantly regard domestication as something people have done to plants, it is at the same time a strategy by which the plants have exploited us and our desires--even our most idiosyncratic notions of beauty--to advance their own interests. Depending on the environment in which a species finds itself, different adaptations will avail. Mutations that nature would have rejected out of hand in the wild sometimes prove to be brilliant adaptations in an environment that's been shaped by human desire.\" (p. 81) \"Although by any conventional measure it is folly to pay thousands for a tulip bulb (or for that matter an Internet stock), as long as there is an even greater fool out there willing to pay even more, doing so is the most logical thing in the world.\" (p. 103) \"Yet this new biotechnology has overthrown the old rules governing the relationship of nature and culture in a plant. Domestication has never been a simple one-way process in which our species has controlled others; other species participate only so far as their interests are served, and many plants (such as the oak) simply sit the whole game out. That game is the one Darwin called 'artificial selection,' and its rules have never been any different from the ones that govern natural selection. The plant in its wildness proposes new qualities, and then man (or, in the case of natural selection, nature) selects which of those qualities will survive and prosper. But about one rule Darwin was emphatic; as he wrote in The Origin of Species , 'Man does not actually produce variability.' Now he does.\" (p. 196) \"Yet for reasons we don't completely understand, distinct species do exist in nature, and they exhibit a certain genetic integrity--sex between them, when it does occur, doesn't produce fertile offspring. Nature presumably has some reason for erecting these walls, even if they are permeable on occasion. Perhaps, as some biologists believe, the purpose of keeping species separate is to put barriers in the path of pathogens, to contain their damage so that a single germ can't wipe out life on Earth at a stroke.\" (pp. 196-197) \"This is, of course, how chemical companies have always handled the problem of pest resistance: by simply introducing a new and improved pesticide every few years. With any luck, the effectiveness of the last one will expire around the same time its patent does.\" (p. 215) \"As much as I love the firm grasp and cerebral order of spring, there's a ripe, almost sensual pleasure in its August abandonment, too.\" (p. 240) new words: pomace, ramifying, mergansers, synecdoche, muntins, chthonic ...more What if we humans are being manipulated by plants to serve their desires? From this slightly creepy flipped perspective, masterful storyteller Michael Pollan illuminates the crazy and complex interdependency of living things -- and also, some of the dangers we inflict on ourselves and our entire world by contemporary agricultural practices -- through four stories - and what stories! -- of the apple, the tulip, marijuana, and the potato. (Ok, he admits the conceit of manipulative plants to be a b What if we humans are being manipulated by plants to serve their desires? From this slightly creepy flipped perspective, masterful storyteller Michael Pollan illuminates the crazy and complex interdependency of living things -- and also, some of the dangers we inflict on ourselves and our entire world by contemporary agricultural practices -- through four stories - and what stories! -- of the apple, the tulip, marijuana, and the potato. (Ok, he admits the conceit of manipulative plants to be a bit of a stretch -- but it's a fascinating way to see how we and our favorite foods, flowers, and intoxicants are, for better or worse, co-evolving.) Biggest surprise of the book - the potato's story turned out to be the most interesting and important (really, after marijuana?) and the best showcase of Pollan's skills as an investigative journalist/interviewer and experimental gardener. Who knew, for example, that Monsanto scientists created genetically engineered potato plants with a \"gene gun\" that uses a .22 shell to fire DNA-coated stainless steel projectiles into potato leaves in the hope that some of the alien DNA (from some non-potato species) combine with the plant's own DNA? Unless, as a Yankee from Connecticut, Pollan was being set up for a huge Southern joke -- which seems to me a distinct possibility -- this actually happened at the Monsanto lab he visited in Missouri. But possible joke aside, this story contained the most intelligent and nuanced discussion of genetic modification of foods that I've ever seen, with input from numerous scientists and farmers, as well as exploring the advantages and dangers of monoculture and colonial commodity agriculture (and some of its horrific history), chemical versus organic agriculture, and the effects of food culture on farming. Also, Michael Pollan clearly just loves to grow and eat potatoes -- it may be his relish that gave this story its extra glow. (Without ever mentioning vodka.) I also especially loved the apple's story, with the mysterious Dionysian and yet somehow pure, childlike figure of Johnny Appleseed spreading seeds -- not for nice wholesome lunchbox treats but for alcohol, and plenty of it, in the wilds of Pennsylvania and Ohio. (The woods I played in, growing up in southwestern Pennsylvania, were full of abandoned and decrepit old apple trees -- I had no idea of their history.) As this book came out in 2001 the MJ story was a bit dated, and although it focused on why the plant was so strongly prohibited, it never mentioned what I understand to be the two biggest reasons -- racism/anti-Mexican sentiment, and pressure by the American pharmaceutical industry. Nor does the current battle between states and federal government come up (which maybe echoes historic battles over hard cider and whiskey). Nevertheless, all four stories are surprising and fascinating, combining investigative journalism (involving quite a bit of travel), personal experimentation, and a good dose of wild imaginative speculation -- sometimes fueled by that experimentation. ...more Michael Pollan is swiftly solidifying his position as \"somebody I want to know.\" He's a clever writer, an inquisitive journalist, and a creative storyteller, as well as a shining light of simple food consciousness in an era of either not asking at all or asking far too much. This book is equal parts natural history, social history, regular history, botanical musing, plant biology, evolutionary theory, and psychology, with a smattering of classical mythology, memoir, neuroscience, and investigativ Michael Pollan is swiftly solidifying his position as \"somebody I want to know.\" He's a clever writer, an inquisitive journalist, and a creative storyteller, as well as a shining light of simple food consciousness in an era of either not asking at all or asking far too much. This book is equal parts natural history, social history, regular history, botanical musing, plant biology, evolutionary theory, and psychology, with a smattering of classical mythology, memoir, neuroscience, and investigative journalism to hold the threads together. Pollan sets out with the aim of tracking four plants along their coevolution with society, tying each to a human desire that shaped it into what it is today: the apple and sweetness, the tulip and beauty, marijuana and intoxication, and potatoes and control. What he ends up writing from this neat little package of a thesis is something much greater than the sum of its parts, a veritable exploration (I use the word a lot but I think it really applies here) of what it means to be human in a determinedly natural world. One of the ideas he returns to often is that our relationship to the natural world is a balancing of Apollonian (controlled, geometric, structured, artificial) and Dionysian (frenetic, shifting, chaotic, and natural) forces, and I think he really hit the nail on the head with the notion as much as with the conclusion that it's a much more complicated relationship than it first appears. The complexity of the question is due in part to the many human urges (such as morality) that don't fit cleanly in either camp, and in part to the ambiguity of the agent in control within the framework of nature's chaos. It's an impressively thoughtful approach, and the broad reach allowed by a philosophical, as opposed to purely scientific, foundation means the reader gets to learn a little about a lot along the way. I won't spoil anyone's enjoyment of the book by divulging details of HOW each plant and desire is examined, but I will assure you that the how is not as straightforward and easy as you'd expect. This is becoming a mark of Pollan's writing as much as it always has been a hallmark of great writing: a clear and simple idea considered with breadth and depth in a manner so well-organized that you don't realize how much you're learning until you're done. I cannot wait to read more of his work. ...more<---C>Michael Pollan</---C>", "Title": "The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World"},
