{"Comments": "<+++>The Mystic Saga Omnibus</+++>Intriguing..... A somewhat odd assortment of stories about cause and effect with time travel, travelling interstellar space and a number of people that become successfully intertwined by then of book 5. A good read! What a vivid imagination. I picked this series, simply because I had nothing else in my library that caught my interest (<---B>out of the several hundred l have</---B>), and I'm glad I did. This is such a fun read and yet a very technical and imaginative story. This writer to just enjoy did not try to convey any realism to this story giving the reader a chance to just enjoy the story. These five books took me back in time to my comic book days. I would like to know what happens once the 5 years have expired.<---F> A great work of hard sci-fi</---F>. I originally read a few of the books out of order, but then read this which gives all 5 books in correct order. Each story stands alone, but they tie together to each other in some way (to be discovered as you read) and it seems like books 4 and 5 tie the whole saga together the best. Great price for something that could easily sell for typical 9.99 Kindle prices In general it was pretty decent, but I had a few complaints. I did like the overall premise and that we got to learn new things about new characters in the 5 stories (and while they were often about different people/times, they all interconnected). I also really liked the indentured sub-plot of the first story - it was really interesting. My complaints are that time travel isn't really dealt with in a consistent manner - first, how did they get to the planet in the first place if they didn't get In general it was pretty decent, but I had a few complaints. I did like the overall premise and that we got to learn new things about new characters in the 5 stories (and while they were often about different people/times, they all interconnected). I also really liked the indentured sub-plot of the first story - it was really interesting. My complaints are that time travel isn't really dealt with in a consistent manner - first, how did they get to the planet in the first place if they didn't get the signal and second,<---M> once they knew about time travel</---M>, why didn't more people try to change the past. Also the overall ending was a bit off for me and could have been done better. I also didn't really get why they lied to the indentured in the first book - that didn't make a lot of sense to me. ...more An example of hard sci-fi that's also a fun and easy read (not sure how to mesh the two, but this is how it is). It starts on modern day Earth where a man basically blinks and wakes up 300 years into the future on a colonial establishment cruiser near Beta Hydri. Sifting through the lies, he starts to realize something odd is going on. Book two (or chapter two now that they are in one volume) picks up on the planet in the Hydri system, but at a different era and with different characters, but it An example of hard sci-fi that's also a fun and easy read (not sure how to mesh the two, but this is how it is). It starts on modern day Earth where a man basically blinks and wakes up 300 years into the future on a colonial establishment cruiser near Beta Hydri. Sifting through the lies, he starts to realize something odd is going on. Book two (or chapter two now that they are in one volume) picks up on the planet in the Hydri system, but at a different era and with different characters, but it explains a lot of what happened to the original colonists. Book three is where the action starts and that is where I will leave off on this review. Suffice to say, it's an exciting book and I'm in awe at the price and hope there's more to come. ...more I found the omnibus version to be an enjoyable read even though each story was very short. It was hard at first to move away from the initial characters of book one and pick up with new characters in book two, but I eventually got used to that being the way this set was going to go. I felt like a couple of the character sets could have been used to create full novels of their own, but in the end, I guess you find out there was a plan all along. a fun ride This series has a little bit of everything sci fi and weaves it all together with engaging ease -- spinning threads that link notions of Roswell, comic book superheroes and villains, time and space travel, alien species, and intelligent machines into a tale with humor, romance, and complex relationships. Worth every cent and more. Not sure where the good reviews for this one come from. Got to the end of the first book, waiting for it to make sense, then the next book is 1000 years later so gave up! The sample sucked me in. The basic plot (saving memories & personalities from MRIs) is good. but the way they were used, the conflicts, the secrecy, the indentured part - could not make head nor tail of it. E.joyable romp through time This is a fast read with interesting characters. It was good to get all five of the books in this edition as they are fairly short_- together they are a decent novel length. The story is interesting though complicated at times. I would recommend this for a fun read and wonder if future volumes may come. So, the book was't horrible. There are some interesting ideas there. But I think it could use a better editing to fix some of the flow issues, as it felt like it got really convoluted with the various time travel streams. Great read at a more than reasonable price. A+ science fiction originally published in five volumes. This is a really terrific story. It has a lot off action and suspense. The characters are interesting, complex and understandable. Surprisingly enjoyable. I did feel a little sad that some of the stories ended so soon. But as I read on I could see how they related. Very cleverly weaved together. Great job. Good read at a great price. It's a bit complicated at times but hang in there, the saga ties up nicely with an easy read incorporating hard scifi.<---A>Scott McElhaney</---A><---C>Scott McElhaney</---C><+++>The Mystic Saga Omnibus</+++>", "Title": "The Mystic Saga Omnibus"},
