{"Comments": "<+++>Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance</+++>I am positively drawn to the words of Chomsky for the following reasons: he is unflinchingly honest, he writes with a dispassionate demeaner that appears to be completely disinterested,<---M> he is never episodic</---M>, and the implications of what he writes are startling and desperately important. Chomsky writes very matter-of-factly, using occasional sarcasm, but never retreating to overblown rhetoric. His quote-heavy prose is straightforward and undeniable. This man is an encyclopedia of historical knowle I am positively drawn to the words of Chomsky for the following reasons: he is unflinchingly honest, he writes with a dispassionate demeaner that appears to be completely disinterested, he is never episodic, and the implications of what he writes are startling and desperately important. Chomsky writes very matter-of-factly, using occasional sarcasm, but never retreating to overblown rhetoric. His quote-heavy prose is straightforward and undeniable. This man is an encyclopedia of historical knowlege, and the legitimacy of his conclusions cannot be denied. ...more A quick read, and has a tone exactly like watching Chomsky speak. The assertions which seem to him incontestable, the thick and layered cynicism, the stoic application of morals no matter the context or scale. The title refers to Chomsky's belief that the world has two options: American global hegemony, or the survival of the human race. If the human race is to survive, America must cease it's quest, almost completed, for global dominance. However, he does not develop the reasons for this to be A quick read, and has a tone exactly like watching Chomsky speak. The assertions which seem to him incontestable, the thick and layered cynicism, the stoic application of morals no matter the context or scale. The title refers to Chomsky's belief that the world has two options: American global hegemony, or the survival of the human race. If the human race is to survive, America must cease it's quest, almost completed, for global dominance. However, he does not develop the reasons for this to be true, and instead spends the book discussing the last century of US foreign policy. His understanding of WWII, especially the economic and political dimensions, is, I believe, too simplistic. As for the rest of the book, Chomsky quotes sources which he asserts to be authoritative, yet appeared unknown in many cases to me. He would quote a person and assert them the preeminent scholar or expert in that subject, yet the names were usually unfamiliar. Additionally, his conceptions of a 'just war' seem to have no bearing on actual international relations theory. 'Just War' is a concept left over from the medieval christian European world and seems incongruous, arcane and unworkable in the today's globalized, technological and cosmopolitan world. Yet, Chomsky harps on it for the penultimate chapter. It should be remembered that, in reading or listening to Chomsky, he offers no advice on what the US government - or any other government - should do, either domestically or internationally. He only offers criticism of what they have done. And to him, everything, and I mean everything, that the US and other nations have ever done is selfish, amoral, warlike, callous, deceitful, hypocritical, etc.<---F>, ad infinitum</---F>. One wants to ask him: \"Well, what SHOULD the US have done after 9/11 towards the Taliban? Do you really think that would have worked - is that even realistic?\" That Chomsky offers only criticism is worth keeping in mind, as is the fact that, for him, private property and ownership under capitalism are root causes of man's injustice towards man. Chomsky, you may know, is an Anarcho-Syndicalist, a belief far off the left, into the rocky, wild and mostly un-chartered expanses beyond even socialism or communism. That someone with such Utopian and idealistic (<---B>frankly, science-fictioney</---B>) views is hailed as one of the world's preeminent intellectuals is actually staggering. However, Chomsky's final chapter on the militarization of space is perfectly structured, and that he ends with a quote by Bertrand Russell wins me back over to his side - despite the many arguments I take with his other views. Still, this book - as an exemplar of Chomsky's latest ideas and modes of argument - should be confronted so as to test and challenge the reader on where they stand in today's geopolitical debates. ...more I think that the issue of hegemony vs valid self interest is a complex issue, and depending on your political biases, Chomsky may be a good place to start. Hegemony or Survival, like most of Chomsky's books on foriegn policy issues, gives a good window into what he has written on those issues. As a mildly idealistic pragmatist, I appreciate the critique of hegemony but did not feel that the analysis and factual assertions were adeaquate to enhance my understanding. I felt let down by a writer wh I think that the issue of hegemony vs valid self interest is a complex issue, and depending on your political biases, Chomsky may be a good place to start. Hegemony or Survival, like most of Chomsky's books on foriegn policy issues, gives a good window into what he has written on those issues. As a mildly idealistic pragmatist, I appreciate the critique of hegemony but did not feel that the analysis and factual assertions were adeaquate to enhance my understanding. I felt let down by a writer who was supposed to be an icon of sorts. This is a feeling I commonly have as I learn more about a group or individual who pushes any kind of agenda or issue--the analysis and fact often become one dimensional and dissatisfying as a window into understanding.* Chomsky's work, like other similar works and initiatives, should be seen not as a careful analysis but as an attempt to draw attention to an issue (and, possibly, to influence or encourage people who don't have a taste for more complexity). It has validity in that sense. But if you already realize the issue and are seeking understanding rather than a pat on the back or quotes to impress your like-minded friends, you'll be disappointed. I suppose there's some currency to be had in keeping up appearances. *And unfortunately, such works and initiatives become a waste of time for a reader like me, or, even worse, they provide an enticement to express displeasure and alienation. ...more What to conclude about U.S. foreign policy from Chomsky's fierce, eye-opening critique? Simply put, the policy is to dominate and control the world politically and economically by wielding an unmatched and ever-expanding military power to crush whomever it deems a threat whenever it wants. Hence, the title: \"hegemony\" refers to the current trajectory of U.S. foreign policy (accelerated by Bush II primarily by way of his doctrine of preemptive war in the aftermath of 9/11) while \"survival\" refers t What to conclude about U.S. foreign policy from Chomsky's fierce, eye-opening critique? Simply put, the policy is to dominate and control the world politically and economically by wielding an unmatched and ever-expanding military power to crush whomever it deems a threat whenever it wants. Hence, the title: \"hegemony\" refers to the current trajectory of U.S. foreign policy (accelerated by Bush II primarily by way of his doctrine of preemptive war in the aftermath of 9/11) while \"survival\" refers to the question of whether the human race - threatened by, among other things, the proliferation of nuclear weapons (encouraged by U.S. foreign policy) will, in fact, survive. There are some who argue Chomsky's prose is dry. I disagree. It is spare, economical and extremely well-organized, attributes that allow nothing to get in the way of the overwhelming evidence he presents of the United States government's arrogance, lies and brutality on the world stage. From the \"preemptive war\" doctrine and U.S. support of terror in the Middle East and Latin America to its plans for the militarization of space, Chomsky leaves no room for American leaders' lies (from Kennedy to Reagan to Bush I to Clinton to Bush II) to breathe. The question, Chomsky seems to be asking, is whether the freedoms the U.S. does allow (to petition your government, to access high-level planning documents, to organize, to speak out, to vote, etc.) will be used by the public to reverse or blunt this hegemonic trajectory. He finds hope in the possibility, citing certain historic and current popular movements. I remember reading a little Chomsky back when I was a student at the University of Portland. And I'm glad now to reacquaint myself with his work. His intellect is quite amazing (I'm intrigued by his work in linguistics and his other books on politics, as well as his professorship at MIT, and I plan to further immerse myself in his thinking). He strikes me as a moral and admirable man. Certainly, \"Hegemony or Survival\" is, at its core, an argument on behalf of morality. As I read \"Hegemony or Survival,\" I couldn't resist pulling up some speeches by Chomsky posted on the Internet. Among his quotes, this is the one I love the most so far: \"Whenever you hear something said very confidently, the first thing that should come to mind is, wait a minute: Is that true?\" A lot of things are spoken with confidence in America (so, too, in other countries although America seems to have made an entire industry out of bullshit), by leaders in government and business, by people on TV, by parents, etc. My question is, are enough of us making it a practice to ask the question Chomsky urges us to ask? I'd like to think so. But I fear otherwise. ...more With crystal clear prose and thoroughly researched (and copiously footnoted) detail, <---A>Noam Chomsky</---A> reveals the current Iraq war to be just the most recent in a line of ultra-right nationalist aggression by both of the dominant political parties of America as they force (often successfully) an elitist American agenda to the forefront of world politics. Chomsky logically connects the current situation with past American terrorism waged against Nicaragua, Cuba, etc. The man is without question one o With crystal clear prose and thoroughly researched (and copiously footnoted) detail, Noam Chomsky reveals the current Iraq war to be just the most recent in a line of ultra-right nationalist aggression by both of the dominant political parties of America as they force (often successfully) an elitist American agenda to the forefront of world politics. Chomsky logically connects the current situation with past American terrorism waged against Nicaragua, Cuba, etc. The man is without question one of America's most consistently moral voices, and this book burns with his typical intensity. Hegemony or Survival is written in a simple style rather different than the one Chomsky employs in his scholarly linguistic work, probably because a book like this should be accessible to the masses; unfortunately, Chomsky here resorts (as he sometimes does in his lectures) to bitter sarcasm, which prevents Hegemony from being a purely academic exercise but dosen't quite reach the level of vitriolic polemic a la Vidal or Hitchens. Still, Chomsky is firstly a truth-teller, not a stylist and that's how his political work should be evaluated. That about a third of this book is made up of direct quotations of sources is further evidence that truth is Chomsky's greatest concern; however, the frequency of quotes makes for choppy reading. It's funny to think that the great linguist is not aesthetically a great writer, but are you really reading this book for the prose? If this book was read by the country's general public, then headway could finally be made against political ignorance and nationalist hatred in our society. Although the reality of what he details in this book may leave some readers in despair, I find it inspiring to see a man who dares to tell the truth about the modern world without resorting to crackpot conspiracy theories or a self-righteous and sanctimonious tone. This is certainly one of the most important books published in recent years, and we stand to lose a great deal by ignoring it. ...more Diatribe against American imperial policies. Early on, Chomsky warns his reader not to confuse state power with a country and its people. One can be critical of state policy while praising the country and its culture. Interestingly enough, one reviewer on Amazon.com has fallen into that trap and assumes that since Chomsky is critical of the current administration, he must hate America too. Chomsky documents how the Monroe Doctrine has shaped American policy, both foreign and domestic for the past Diatribe against American imperial policies. Early on, Chomsky warns his reader not to confuse state power with a country and its people. One can be critical of state policy while praising the country and its culture. Interestingly enough, one reviewer on Amazon.com has fallen into that trap and assumes that since Chomsky is critical of the current administration, he must hate America too. Chomsky documents how the Monroe Doctrine has shaped American policy, both foreign and domestic for the past 150 years. He uses newpaper articles, declassified documents, and political analysis to show how successive administrations have built up their military supremacy to an unparallel level while at the same time taming the \"great beast\" of public opinion, giving them the freedom to use that power to the benefit of the national elite. Examples come from involvements in Central and South America, the Cold War including the Cuban Missile Crisis, to the post-Soviet era and the war on terror, to the war in Iraq. The progression is quite frightening. The book includes 28 pages (10%) of notes listing sources for each quotes, and a 12-page index. You can check out his facts for yourself, if you have the time and patience to track down all those sources. Note: If you look at the dates during which I was reading this book, you will see that they coincide with George W. Bush's second inaugural address (2005-01-20). In it, President Bush put forth a goal to promote freedom in the world. The future will tell if this was the latest incarnation of the Monroe Doctrine. In reaction to the inaugural speech, the New York Times published, on January 30, an op-ed by Tom Wolfe tying the address to the Monroe Doctrine and how successive administrations gradually expanded its reach until it spanned the entire globe. ...more My first Noam Chomsky book although I have read articles and excerpts from him. This is a great book that details U.S. foreign relations policies up to 2004. Subject matter wise he is THE expert. Not only has he done his homework through diligent research he also puts these complex, multi-layered, and nuanced problems into the light. If you live in a world where you think the U.S. is perfect and altruistic in its dealings with the rest of the world you may not want to read this book as it will p My first Noam Chomsky book although I have read articles and excerpts from him. This is a great book that details U.S. foreign relations policies up to 2004. Subject matter wise he is THE expert. Not only has he done his homework through diligent research he also puts these complex, multi-layered, and nuanced problems into the light. If you live in a world where you think the U.S. is perfect and altruistic in its dealings with the rest of the world you may not want to read this book as it will put all of that into question (personally I think it shatters it). Chomsky is a philosopher first so he puts all presidents, regardless of political affiliation, on the chopping block. What is the goal of the U.S. in terms of world dominance? Is it trying to be hegemonic in its dealings with other countries? Wonder why much of the world dislikes the U.S.? I have often told people the U.S. is the bully of the world, forcing others to live up to its expectations at any cost (including costs to its own people). I think this book only serves to prove that point. Many others would argue that what the U.S. does in the world is not bullying but surviving in a time when despots, ruthless authoritarians, and dictators are all too common in a global climate. I would argue that we create those problems through our relentless goal of hegemony. See what you think. ...more An incredibly interesting initial argument that gets so battered over the head and dissected utilizing the same damn historical case studies over and over that I could barely finish this book. Chomsky's logic is absolutely sound and the history backs him up. But this book would read infinitely better as a conference paper or as ONE chapter versus the rambling, jumpy, and sometimes amateur analysis it offers instead. Chomsky also seems to suffer here from a real bad case of organization; section An incredibly interesting initial argument that gets so battered over the head and dissected utilizing the same damn historical case studies over and over that I could barely finish this book. Chomsky's logic is absolutely sound and the history backs him up. But this book would read infinitely better as a conference paper or as ONE chapter versus the rambling, jumpy, and sometimes amateur analysis it offers instead. Chomsky also seems to suffer here from a real bad case of organization; sections dedicated to describing a particular episode of America's neoimperialism in some part of the world will hop backwards and forwards to other historical moments that may establish the same sort of argument. And the repetition of the same culminating point (USA = hegemon) is just tiresome and plainly needs some nuancing. Because frankly this whole book just comes off as radical and alienating. Bad case of the genius maybe? 2 stars. ...more Any caring non-Americans knew what USA did and is doing. Noam Chomsky just managed to write it down into one neat book. This is one of those books that's gonna leave me in a vaguely angry mood for the next month. Jesus. In case you're not familiar, this is the book that Hugo Chavez cited at the UN, the day he was railing against the US and calling Dubya the devil and whatever else. A group here in town was doing kind of an impromptu book-group reading of it, so I thought I'd join in. I knew that few of them had read Chomsky before, and being liberals I wondered what they'd think. Personally, I'm a little ways left of liberal, but I'm not the world's biggest Chomsky fan. Before this one I had read some short stu In case you're not familiar, this is the book that Hugo Chavez cited at the UN, the day he was railing against the US and calling Dubya the devil and whatever else. A group here in town was doing kind of an impromptu book-group reading of it, so I thought I'd join in. I knew that few of them had read Chomsky before, and being liberals I wondered what they'd think. Personally, I'm a little ways left of liberal, but I'm not the world's biggest Chomsky fan. Before this one I had read some short stuff from him, seen/heard a few interviews, and read about 2/3 of Manufacturing Consent. That last one, especially, I'm not a fan of. It's propaganda, if you ask me. This is part of my reason for wanting to be in this group, was so that there would be at least one critical voice there. I was surprised how little the book bothered me, though. It does have those propagandist moments. One of his favorite rhetorical tools, for example, is to choose \"just a sample\" of world events that illustrate his point on something. But it's so transparent; you can find a set of world events to prove virtually any thesis. Some of his \"samples\" seem pretty well representative, and others seem to be just the cherries that were ripe enough to serve. The other thing you always expect from Chomsky, of course, is that he'll thoroughly depress you. Which he did\u2014maybe not \"thoroughly,\" I guess, but there's certainly plenty here to be depressed about. In spite of the page and a half at the end of the book where he says, \"But things aren't so bad, because people always try to make the world a better place. The end.\" But there are things to build some hope on, too. He makes an observation early on, for example, about the level of criticism of the war in Iraq. People often compare it to Vietnam, with desperate questions as to why the American public aren't getting as worked up this time around. But the fact is that by the time we were this deep in Vietnam, the public was still hardly taking any notice at all. Lots more people had died on both sides before there was a real public backlash in that case. This time around, there were protests even before the initial invasion. Still, if you're not already inclined to believe the \"positives\" to which he appeals and/or alludes, you're going to think the world is going straight to Hell. He does an exhaustive job of detailing the ways. I'm not sure where I am in that regard, so I did find it slightly depressing. But still quite good. ...more Chomsky is ruthless in this book. He extensively quotes elected officials, academics and news pundits to expose the jingoistic neoliberal agenda America has pursued for decades. Most shocking to me is the candor used by officials when talking about the brutal and exploitative methods America uses to establish power around the world. From the support of murderous dictators to the outright disposal of democratically elected officials that do not support American business interests. Chomsky reveals Chomsky is ruthless in this book. He extensively quotes elected officials, academics and news pundits to expose the jingoistic neoliberal agenda America has pursued for decades. Most shocking to me is the candor used by officials when talking about the brutal and exploitative methods America uses to establish power around the world. From the support of murderous dictators to the outright disposal of democratically elected officials that do not support American business interests. Chomsky reveals that the pursuit of American hegemony around the globe involves both Democrats and Republicans. Kennedy, Reagan, Wilson Eisenhower, Johnson, Clinton, both Bushes and all in between have worked to establish ruthless American rule. While reading I remembered the years from Clinton to Bush and was struck by how much I believed in the lofty rhetoric being thrown around to justify invasions and bombings of foreign countries. Chomsky does a very good job of showing how thinly veiled the actual motives of American power are. Through his examples he lays out the prevailing ideology of American power and shows the callous logic that operates under that ideology. Occasionally, Chomsky's snark becomes a little too much, although it is understandable considering the truly horrific war crimes, and the accompanying flowery narrative and systematic denial, he documents. As I was reading I kept remembering a particular verse from the song 'Strange Ways' by Madvillian. The album came out only a few months after Chomsky's book, and I'm going to end my review with the verse because it is a succinct formulation of what gets discussed in Hegemony or Survival: \"They pray four times a day, they pray five Whose ways is strange when it's time to survive Some will go of they own free will to die Others take them with you when they blow sky high What's the difference? All you get is lost children While the bosses sit up behind the desks That cost billions to blast humans in half, into calves and arms Only one side is allowed to have bombs It's like making a soldier drop his weapon Shooting him, and telling him to get to stepping Obviously, they came to portion up his fortune Sounds to me like that old robbery/extortion\" ...more \"Not to have read him is to genuinely court ignorance\" -Nation This quote, on the back cover, just about sums it up. With each passing page you become more aware that you know next to nothing about events in the world today, and more specifically how much the US is involved. In fact, it is unlikely that you will initially believe how many pies the US has its fingers in. The portrayal of events feels extremely conspiratorialist, but the evidence is all expounded upon at great length. The book assum \"Not to have read him is to genuinely court ignorance\" -Nation This quote, on the back cover, just about sums it up. With each passing page you become more aware that you know next to nothing about events in the world today, and more specifically how much the US is involved. In fact, it is unlikely that you will initially believe how many pies the US has its fingers in. The portrayal of events feels extremely conspiratorialist, but the evidence is all expounded upon at great length. The book assumes knowledge of most of the topics mentioned, and at many points it will probably be necessary to stop and do some background reading. Subject matter includes conflict in several South American countries, the Iraq war, American military presence around the world, the Israel-Palestine conflict and more. He quotes and cites many people, perhaps too many, perhaps simplifying the motives occasionally, but it is undeniable that Chomsky has the facts to support his claims. He is attacked often, but rarely disproved - more often his voice is simply marginalised and denied attention, because the things he talks about would make certain powerful people very uncomfortable. For example, he mentions the US practice of \"double-vetoing\" of UNSC resolutions by refusing to attend, assuring a) they will not pass, and b) they will not be reported. Several parts make for very uncomfortable reading; it is difficult to find a non-sinister reason America would refuse to sign a deal prohibiting the militarisation of space when every other country on earth has accepted. This book will challenge your view of the world, and is essential to understand many of the major events of the last half-century. ...more Chomsky, long recognized as a leading far-left writer and thinker, has something of a defining book in \u201cHegemony or Surivival\u201d. In some ways, his reflective work on the U.S.'s involvement in global affairs is more important and instructive in 2013, than when the book was published in 2003. Not only does Chomsky give a frightening but comprehensive view of where we are as a country, he details the dark dirty wars that are still largely unknown to the US public. Whether the killing of six Jesuit S Chomsky, long recognized as a leading far-left writer and thinker, has something of a defining book in \u201cHegemony or Surivival\u201d. In some ways, his reflective work on the U.S.'s involvement in global affairs is more important and instructive in 2013, than when the book was published in 2003. Not only does Chomsky give a frightening but comprehensive view of where we are as a country, he details the dark dirty wars that are still largely unknown to the US public. Whether the killing of six Jesuit Salvadorian intellectuals or the support of Isreal's harsh brute action to institute against palestinians, Chomsky makes a strong case that to many countries America appears to be a rogue nation not genuinely looking to help this world. Writers like Chomsky are important for the protetion of free speech. Not all readers will agree with the things said in this book, but like Howard Zinn's \u201cA People's History of the United States\u201d, it gives voice to the voiceless and wronged. ...more Talks all about the first war on terror in the 80's, and the destruction it caused, the failed attempts by the opressed to get america out of their country and to stop killing everyone, America's stranglehold on the UN. He spells out how America is so full of shit by the application of double standards, both philosophically and in the UN, where the rules don't apply to it. It's a pretty sad state of affairs really, when a person or entity is so full of shit as to pronounce vigorously one thing a Talks all about the first war on terror in the 80's, and the destruction it caused, the failed attempts by the opressed to get america out of their country and to stop killing everyone, America's stranglehold on the UN. He spells out how America is so full of shit by the application of double standards, both philosophically and in the UN, where the rules don't apply to it. It's a pretty sad state of affairs really, when a person or entity is so full of shit as to pronounce vigorously one thing and then be doing the opposite thing in a closet somewhere. How long does anybody think that is going to last? This is also interesting because the horrible things america was doing in the 80's is all being carried out by the same asswipes that are in charge of our current debacle, not that it should come as any surprise. Rumsfeld and Cheney, all your favorites! Enjoy. ...more Chomsky, use your words. To be fair, I wasn't actually able to finish it (yet) but do intend to as it is a thesis demanding attention; however, I did get far enough to shake my judgmental fist. How can entire paragraphs--- let alone pages-- of text be comprised entirely of a string of isolated quotes by other sources with no context? It was like compilation essay(s) by an inexperienced schmuck of an undergrad lacking any semblance of an original thought in his head or influence--- not a renowned Chomsky, use your words. To be fair, I wasn't actually able to finish it (yet) but do intend to as it is a thesis demanding attention; however, I did get far enough to shake my judgmental fist. How can entire paragraphs--- let alone pages-- of text be comprised entirely of a string of isolated quotes by other sources with no context? It was like compilation essay(s) by an inexperienced schmuck of an undergrad lacking any semblance of an original thought in his head or influence--- not a renowned author/ orator and expert in the field. To be continued.... ...more Another Chomsky screed, this being an overview of the history of modern American foreign policy in light of its contemporary occupations of Afghanistan and Iraq in the ostensive cause of fighting \"terrorism.\" Chomsky demonstrates again and again and again that the real, the maximum terrorist is the United States of America. I believe I bought this book at the Evanston Library booksale and lost it by leaving it in the washroom at work. I hope the finder reads the thing. Read this book, or live in America at your own peril. To paraphrase one reviewer, to not read Chomsky is to court ignorance. (I should add that Chomsky goes into important issues of \"humanitarian intervention,\" in the military sense, in particular with regard to Kosovo.) Published post-9/11, 2003, this is as all Chomsky's work indispensable to understanding what's going on in the world and power's role in effecting it. To readers not well acquainted with Chomsky's writings, this and all his work are likely to seem unbelievable, terribly far-fetched, just too crazy to be true. After all, we grew up to know - not just be (I should add that Chomsky goes into important issues of \"humanitarian intervention,\" in the military sense, in particular with regard to Kosovo.) Published post-9/11, 2003, this is as all Chomsky's work indispensable to understanding what's going on in the world and power's role in effecting it. To readers not well acquainted with Chomsky's writings, this and all his work are likely to seem unbelievable, terribly far-fetched, just too crazy to be true. After all, we grew up to know - not just believe but know beyond a shadow of a doubt - that the USA is the purveyor of all that is Good in the world. If we did it it had to be good. It may be then that the first Chomsky book to read would be Manufacturing Consent, where he exposes the propaganda system in a way that may awaken the reader to the possibility that not all is as it seems. Otherwise the reader may be wont to dismiss everything NC writes as poppycock, as the mainstream in fact does. He is deluged with speaking invitations around the world but very seldom appears on MSM in the US. Why? [My answer to that is that the truth is too dangerous.] So, \"hegemony or survival.\" Survival of the species is a worthy topic, no? One that parents (and all) seemingly would find of utmost interest. Should we heed those who somehow \"just know\" things, upon whom wisdom alights like a butterfly (like certain TV commentators) - or should we dare to consider and weigh the words of one of the great scientists of all time (practically the inventor of psycholinguistics, or certainly its greatest exponent) who has studied US foreign (and domestic) policy intensively for about five decades in ways that even most scholars cannot closely approach. Chomsky argues that if the species is to survive we would do well to examine our most cherished beliefs, especially the ones that arouse the deepest emotions -- allegiance to one's government right or wrong, for example. Or that we are the Good and those who don't go along with us - often a great majority of the world - are the Evil. Much of Chomsky's insight can be boiled down to a key phrase: If it's wrong when they do it, it's wrong when we do it. Simple enough, hardly a test of human reasoning capacity - but then the propaganda system kicks in. So for example, the US Senate recently voted unanimously to approve of Israel's onslaught upon the civilian population of Gaza. The fact of such unanimity suggests a pervasive belief system maintained by propaganda. [Chomsky has written extensively to document what he calls Israeli \"crimes\" aided and abetted with the crucial support of the US.) Interesting, too, that the title \"hegemony or survival\" parallels another dichotomy Chomsky applies to Israeli state planners - the choice of \"territory vs security.\" But we leave discussion of that to another occasion. In H or S, Chomsky writes of Israel and Palestine, and Iraq. Many related topics pop up repeatedly in this as in his other works, as understanding the world must be placed into historical context. So for example, he touches again upon Reagan's \"terrorist wars\" in Central America in the '80s (a horribly shameful record), the Cuban missile crisis, the war on drugs in Colombia (and the poisonous environment-shredding use of pesticides when the local governors wanted to switch to manual defoliation - hey, who cares about the ecosystem in which people live, right?). He goes into Turkey and the Kurds, Indonesia and East Timor, and more. If the reader doesn't have the patience to plunge into the voluminous Manufacturing Consent, in order to acquire a basic understanding from which to question the propaganda system, at least H or S is compact at 237 pp (+ references) - and thus a convenient bedside read, quick and easy, after which the reader will either throw the book out the window like the character in Silver Linings Playbook, or find his/her acquired worldview challenged most uncomfortably. (Something people generally don't wish to experience.) Survival of the species (and planet) is/are, however, extremely worthy topics and I do hope the great mass of readers will open to what Chomsky gets right (or wrong) and weigh these matters carefully -- open to the possibility that not all is as it seems. Reviewer is the author of Stir It Up: [book:Stir It Up: The CIA Targets Jamaica, Bob Marley and the Progressive Manley Government|15727177] ...more My first full book by Chomsky... How eye-opening on the topics of: 1) neo-classical economics and globalization; their effect of a widening wealth gap and the resulting 'political instability, cultural alienation, ... ethnic, ideological and religious extremism'. He wrote this in 2003 and accurately foreshadowed the events of 2016. 2) the US and UK's rejection of the principle of universality. Think of colonialism, economic imperialism, funding/backing of military coups, support for dictators (and My first full book by Chomsky... How eye-opening on the topics of: 1) neo-classical economics and globalization; their effect of a widening wealth gap and the resulting 'political instability, cultural alienation, ... ethnic, ideological and religious extremism'. He wrote this in 2003 and accurately foreshadowed the events of 2016. 2) the US and UK's rejection of the principle of universality. Think of colonialism, economic imperialism, funding/backing of military coups, support for dictators (and then reversal of that at will), and such similar acth the US and UK have exercised globally in recent history, but punishing the same acts when carried out by other non-allied states. 3) the Iraq War encouraging jihadi militarization and global weaponisation in general. Need I say more? I just hope space does not get militarized. ...more Foreign Policy from a Disdent View: This book is simply fantastic in my opinion. As critique of U.S. foreign policy for the past 50 year, the writing is exceptional for its clarity and depth. Chomsky methodically picks apart the multiple aspects of foreign relations: economic, military, cultural, and places them within the grand context of America's strategic aims for maintains its role as leader of the world. Dismissing what is said on governments behalf and focusing on the much more accurate i Foreign Policy from a Disdent View: This book is simply fantastic in my opinion. As critique of U.S. foreign policy for the past 50 year, the writing is exceptional for its clarity and depth. Chomsky methodically picks apart the multiple aspects of foreign relations: economic, military, cultural, and places them within the grand context of America's strategic aims for maintains its role as leader of the world. Dismissing what is said on governments behalf and focusing on the much more accurate indicator of actions, a clear and coherent picture emerges; the U.S. will stop at nothing to maintain its power and influence around the globe. Denouncing terror one hand while supporting it when it serves an interest, preaching democracy abroad while limiting it as much as possible at home, promising aid for development while ensuring its main effect is financial return at the developing country's expense; the goes on and Chomsky never runs out of examples taken from the last 50 years to prove his points. I have been introduced to Chomsky before mainly through his work in linguistics and from listening to a few of his speeches, but this book took it to a whole new level. To my knowledge there is no one else currently writing in the U.S. that can reproduce the criticisms that Chomsky raises, whether it be on the level of clearly laid down arguments, depth of research, or the ability to see things for what they really are. I can't remember who said the quote \"A true historian can have no country\" but I can think of no one better to apply this to than Chomsky, perhaps replacing historian with observer of international affairs. Anyone with any interest in the world, the U.S. role in it, international relations, and the reasons behind the antagonism felt by much of the world towards the U.S. should read this book. Even those who are ardent supporters of U.S. policy would do well to give it a go if only to be brought up to date with the most challenging arguments against it. I have engaged in conversations with a few such people and they have always faltered when I brought up the points raised in the book. I now Hugo Chavez is a fan, he brought the book (Spanish translation of course) to the U.N. when he addressed the general assembly and said that anyone who wanted to know what was happening in the world today simple had to read Chomsky to understand. Getting that kind of endorsement is pretty telling; a head of state on the largest international stage is the kind of publicity one cannot buy. Perhaps I should just leave you with that. ...more Few contemporary intellectuals divide opinion quite like Chomsky. To his defenders, he sets out an irrefutable case that US history is dominated by an underlying imperialistic aim that is self-serving, hypocritical and essentially malign. To his detractors, his argument often boils down to \"US capitalism is responsible for the world's problems, violent resistance to its proliferation is inevitable, therefore that too is the fault of capitalism.\" In truth, I've yet to be wholly convinced by Choms Few contemporary intellectuals divide opinion quite like Chomsky. To his defenders, he sets out an irrefutable case that US history is dominated by an underlying imperialistic aim that is self-serving, hypocritical and essentially malign. To his detractors, his argument often boils down to \"US capitalism is responsible for the world's problems, violent resistance to its proliferation is inevitable, therefore that too is the fault of capitalism.\" In truth, I've yet to be wholly convinced by Chomsky's argument, but I've also yet to be convinced that he is anything like the apologist for tyrants as claimed by many of his critics, or that the facts and analysis he presents are so wide of the mark as to be of little value. Undoubtedly he is a brilliant polemicist and an important 'rogue'. It's just that US foreign policy and motivation is, I suspect, rather more complex than his writing ever suggests - sometimes benign, sometimes far from it - and I wish he would acknowledge that ambiguity a little more often. Nevertheless, in Hegemony or Survival he ably challenges many of the commonly-accepted truths of recent years: that the appalling humanitarian crisis in Iraq accompanying the sanctions regime was all Saddam's fault... that while the invasion of Iraq was a mistake, the Afghanistan military campaign was justified... that unlike 'Old Europe', New Europe backed Washington's decision to invade Iraq... that \"9-11 changed everything\"... and so on. One big niggle. It's frustrating that, as a professor of linguistics, Chomsky's writing style remains so convoluted. It's not that you need to google every other sentence to understand it - rather, it's the whole '5 words when 1 will do' syndrome. What hampers this further is his decision to weave direct quotes into almost every other sentence - admirable from a sourcing point of view, but far from ideal when it interrupts the flow of text as frequently as it does here. I don't object to academic or challenging prose per se (far from it), but there's a point at which you realise it doesn't have to be this dense and impenetrable. All it does is continue to limit the reach of his argument. People rarely approach Chomsky expecting balance, and this book is no exception. His fans will no doubt approve, his critics will probably pass it up. Either way, he remains an important counterweight to the safe, sanitized and sensationalized mainstream news, and it's worth persisting with the book - dense text and all - to hear a valuable alternative point of view. ...more Noam Chomsky provides yet another sweeping political indictment of the United States, and this time he places the human species entire as potential victims of far-right elite power. This volume is extraordinarily broad and far-reaching. Chomsky discusses the Bush doctrine, Iraq, the Middle East, Globalization, the Cold War, and Nuclear proliferation to name justa few. His scholarship is praiseworthy, although he continues to overstretch himself. On the issue of the FRY, Chomsky continues to make Noam Chomsky provides yet another sweeping political indictment of the United States, and this time he places the human species entire as potential victims of far-right elite power. This volume is extraordinarily broad and far-reaching. Chomsky discusses the Bush doctrine, Iraq, the Middle East, Globalization, the Cold War, and Nuclear proliferation to name justa few. His scholarship is praiseworthy, although he continues to overstretch himself. On the issue of the FRY, Chomsky continues to make false assumptions about the appropriate response to Serbian aggression. He is not an expert on this issue, and relies almost entirely on leftist publications, though his section on Israel-Palestine is evidence of his continued mastery of the topic. A few points to raise: Chomsky occasionally applies passing references to well established systems of thinking without quoting directly. For example, in discussing Clinton's unilateral bombing of the al-Shifa plant in Sudan in 1998, he refers to \"the Hegelian doctrine that Africans are `mere things', whose lives have `no value.'\" (pg. 207). No direct reference to Hegel is provided. Additionally Chomsky claims on page 100 that \"the figure of $17 billion is the amount that Iraq has paid to people and companies [...]\", without a citation. Chomsky also quotes Paul Wolfowitz to the fact that he was \"praising the monstrous Suharto and supporting the brutal and corrupt Marcos\" (pg. 114), without proper citation. One last scholarly issue, on page 233, Chomsky writes that \"Washington had argued that `access to American bio-defense installations' might reveal military secrets\" but he refers to the Judith Miller in the footnote (see #35 pg. 266), who later of course turned out to be a rubbish journalist. Never the less, Chomsky's belief that the forces of U.S. power are a threat to the survival of the human race are legitimate and worth taking seriously. His knowledge of politics is undeniably intimidating, yet I disagree with his incessant employment of the term \"truism\" (see esp. chapter 8 `Terrorism and Justice, pgs. 187- 216), there are no \"truisms\" in human affairs. No matter how scrupulously one arranges facts, facts are all they remain, not \"truisms.\" Even the most reputable journalists, scholars, and human rights organizations are incapable of reporting the facts truthfully and correctly. ...more As usual, Chomsky is right on the money when it comes to understanding the inner workings of the American Empire and the real goals that are pursued by the American foreign policy. Chomsky details the hypocrisy of the rhetoric of the American government vs its actions when it comes to most of the world including such staunch allies as Great Britain, Turkey and Israel. He also goes on to detail the terror by proxy in which the US engages to keep the rest of the world in check. Where Chomsky fails As usual, Chomsky is right on the money when it comes to understanding the inner workings of the American Empire and the real goals that are pursued by the American foreign policy. Chomsky details the hypocrisy of the rhetoric of the American government vs its actions when it comes to most of the world including such staunch allies as Great Britain, Turkey and Israel. He also goes on to detail the terror by proxy in which the US engages to keep the rest of the world in check. Where Chomsky fails so far is the implication that if American Empire were to somehow disappear tomorrow, justice, real democracy and the voice of the people around the world would somehow be heard and listened to. This is a very interesting read, but I wish that Noam Chomsky would apply the same criteria of breakdown and analysis of US actions to the rest of the world's empires and detail how this particular empire is any different (if at all) from all the others. ...more An insightful look at Americas foreign policy for the las 50 years. Support for some of the most evil rulers of the 20th century turning a blind eye to murder, racism and repression so long as it served the interests of big business and branding the actions of those who refuse to obey terrorism while the equally repugnant actions of America and her clients such as Israel and Columbia go unreported. Particulary loved the quote wherethe Reagan administration referred to the ANC as one of the world An insightful look at Americas foreign policy for the las 50 years. Support for some of the most evil rulers of the 20th century turning a blind eye to murder, racism and repression so long as it served the interests of big business and branding the actions of those who refuse to obey terrorism while the equally repugnant actions of America and her clients such as Israel and Columbia go unreported. Particulary loved the quote wherethe Reagan administration referred to the ANC as one of the worlds \"more notorious terrorist groups\". The U.S. ruling elite have chosen to pursue a policy of maintaing their current world hegemony in the face of changing economic and demographic realities even if the policies they pursue increase the risk of WMD proliferation, refusing to ban the militrisation of space or the production of biological weapons. Hopefully their choices won't kill us all. ...more As an Arab who saw, heard, or watched the things Noam mentioned in his book regarding America's policy in the middie east, I must say that he's of the few Americans who are aware of what's going on around them. I like Noam, I studied a lot of his books when I was at college. I also had some difficulties understanding his high level language. The last thing I noticed was that, I think Noam is being too harsh on America in this book. America has done a lot of horrible things, but it also did a lot o As an Arab who saw, heard, or watched the things Noam mentioned in his book regarding America's policy in the middie east, I must say that he's of the few Americans who are aware of what's going on around them. I like Noam, I studied a lot of his books when I was at college. I also had some difficulties understanding his high level language. The last thing I noticed was that, I think Noam is being too harsh on America in this book. America has done a lot of horrible things, but it also did a lot of good things as well. The book was very interesting to me. Next book I'm planning to read for Noam is Gaza in Crisis. ...more I personally find much of Chomsky's political analysis to be very compelling, although his penchant for one-sided polemicism and for not providing opinions on the other sides of the issues weakens his case. Also, although I respect his unflinching commitment, his uncompromising positions, forcefully presented, have led to his being sidelined in much serious political discourse; and that is, I think, extremely unfortunate. His political positions are scary ones, but ones that deserve, in my opini I personally find much of Chomsky's political analysis to be very compelling, although his penchant for one-sided polemicism and for not providing opinions on the other sides of the issues weakens his case. Also, although I respect his unflinching commitment, his uncompromising positions, forcefully presented, have led to his being sidelined in much serious political discourse; and that is, I think, extremely unfortunate. His political positions are scary ones, but ones that deserve, in my opinion, a far greater exposure and hearing. This may be one of the best introductions to Chomsky's political thought. An important book to read, whatever your opinion of his arguments. ...more Rich in information. Never have I read a book that begged to have all the sources read. Chomsky's breadth of historical knowledge is vast, but many of these topics warrant their own books. In many ways, it seems like the opposing argument is just ignored....will add more later Noam Chomsky punched Uncle Sam in the face on every page. This is a long refutation of the concept of that it is helpful to security or morally right to maintain American hegemony. It is also, to a lesser extent, a refutation of that democratic peace theory (the theory that democratic countries go to war with each other less) somehow contributes to increased world peace. The book is a scathing indictment of American foreign policy which is equal parts nightmarishly frightening (talks about American \"terrorist actions\") and somehow also totally boring. This is a long refutation of the concept of that it is helpful to security or morally right to maintain American hegemony. It is also, to a lesser extent, a refutation of that democratic peace theory (the theory that democratic countries go to war with each other less) somehow contributes to increased world peace. The book is a scathing indictment of American foreign policy which is equal parts nightmarishly frightening (talks about American \"terrorist actions\") and somehow also totally boring. I think it's important to read, but good luck with that. ...more<---C>Bill Clinton</---C><+++>Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance</+++>", "Title": "Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance"},
