{"Comments": "I came across a review that dismissed <---A>Bill Bryson</---A>'s work as being entertaining fact collection that doesn't present anything new. I agree wholeheartedly with the sentiment, if not the implication. There is nothing wrong with entertaining fact collection, and,<---M> in my mind</---M>, everything right with it. In this age of information overload, the kind of clear-minded research and fact-sorting he performs for his readers is manna sent from communication heaven. The ability (<---B>and the willingness</---B>) to collect, I came across a review that dismissed Bill Bryson's work as being entertaining fact collection that doesn't present anything new. I agree wholeheartedly with the sentiment, if not the implication. There is nothing wrong with entertaining fact collection, and, in my mind, everything right with it. In this age of information overload, the kind of clear-minded research and fact-sorting he performs for his readers is manna sent from communication heaven. The ability (and the willingness) to collect, order, set out and present information in the most simple and logical way possible is something that I will always treasure in my favourite writers and thinkers. The desire to popularise science and historical research marks an author, for me, as intellectually generous. The fact that the book has such a logical flow is actually a triumph, arising primarily from the the way the facts have been organised. The hallmark of a good idea is the way it seems blindingly obvious in retrospect, and it must be said that it was very astute to choose the home as an organising metaphor, one with which every reader is familiar. A history of domestic life could just as easily been organised chronologically, for example. Or divided into discrete units by subject - 'servants', 'hygiene', 'architecture' - just like the school textbooks that turned us off this stuff in the first place. Using a tangible concept allows Bryson to create easily-visualised conceptual spaces from which to launch his explorations, allowing him ramble freely across history, linguistics and science without losing us. It allows him a safe space to create links between Victorian prudishness, evolution, poor houses and nursery rhymes without leaving us reeling in confusion. The judicious introduction of a smattering of already-familiar historical figures such as Washington, Jefferson, Columbus and Darwin also saves the narrative from spiralling into abstraction. In my view, the real magic in Bryson's brand of popular science is turning everyday items into objects of mystery. Why have pepper and salt become the only two condiments that feature on every western table? Why do forks have four tines and not five? Why do we cultivate lawns? Why do we have buttons on our jacket cuffs? Why are pigs eaten and dogs domesticated and not the other way around? Everything from our windows to our mattresses suddenly holds a story. I have enough of an aversion to the Dan Brown brand for it to have prevented me from reading any of his work, but I have the deepest admiration for the way he, in a similar manner, has been able to suggest that existing, accessible, tangible locations hold clues to a larger conspiracy. Injecting a little bit of play into everyday life is a marvellous thing. And stretching it a little further, it's not so different from Foursquare, which also transforms our everyday places into part of a broader narrative (in the case of Foursquare, a social narrative, in Bryson or Dan Brown's case, an historical narrative). Making us feel like we have a tangible connection to our own history is important for someone like me, and presumably some others of my generation, who don't feel it very often. Suddenly, the USA's AT&T, which I only know from its stranglehold over iPad contracts, is also Alexander Graham Bell's American Telephone & Telegraph company. The tobacco we smoke is the same stuff that the fifteenth-century American Indians were inhaling, and we're still eating stone age crops and using the names of their gods for the days of the week ('Tiw, Woden, Thor...<---F> and Woden's wife Frig')</---F>. I'm also a sucker for anything that links real life with the abstractions of language, and the book's full of etymological delicacies for language nerds. For example, we find out that the earlier incarnations of our 'toiletries' could be found on the 'toile' cloth on top of a dresser, 'banquet' comes from the french word for the benches people used to sit on, and the pantry or 'bread room' is derived from the latin word 'panna'. And why do we still say 'sleep tight'? Because we used to kip on mattresses supported by ropes that could be tightened by a key. On the other hand, the book also forces us to consider how abruptly different our current period is from most of the rest of human existence.For instance, Bryson tells me that although running water has been around since Caeser was a boy, adequate lighting and heating are luxuries that are extraordinarily recent. Even the weekend is a very young concept. Doctors haven't been washing their hands between patients for very long, and operations, anaesthetic, germs, vitamins and minerals were unknown terms not so long ago. People haven't been washing their whole bodies at all, or even parts of it regularly, for most of history. The logical consequence of all of this, as far as I can see, is for us to reconsider those things we take for granted, which is never a bad thing. For me, this is another way of disempowering the almighty status quo, calling into question the norms we take for granted by showing how they are culturally determined and stubbornly anchored to an historical context. It's easy to read, it's full of facts you can pull out during the next awkward silence. And, to quote Winnie the Pooh, 'it's more fun to talk with someone who doesn't use long, difficult words but rather short, easy ones' ...more If Bill Bryson and Sarah Vowell wrote all the history texts, and Mary Roach wrote all the science texts, our society would be more educated and amused than anywhere on earth. I want to say that this book was a greatly informative text on the history of sanitation, architecture, anglo-saxon culture, farming, growth of cities, and society in general, but I'm afraid that would put you off. This is the story of his house in England. He takes us through each room discussing the history, scientific br If Bill Bryson and Sarah Vowell wrote all the history texts, and Mary Roach wrote all the science texts, our society would be more educated and amused than anywhere on earth. I want to say that this book was a greatly informative text on the history of sanitation, architecture, anglo-saxon culture, farming, growth of cities, and society in general, but I'm afraid that would put you off. This is the story of his house in England. He takes us through each room discussing the history, scientific breakthroughs, and characters that helped create it. Through this device, we learn the history of English and American culture and everyday life. Bryson is such an entertaining and knowledgeable writer that he informs while amusing us. He tells the stories of numerous inventors and craftsmen that are important but obscure. He tells those fascinating incidents that make us laugh and ponder how we got to where we are today. I learned more from this book than I did from a year's worth of history classes in college. He is even a good reader-the audiobook is narrated by him and is often laugh out loud funny. Reading the book is laugh out loud funny too. More miraculously, he is the only author that both Rick and I read and agree on. ...more Let me preface this review by saying that, yes, I am a fan of Bill Bryson and I love history books. At Home is not Bryson's best work. Its loosely-organized premise (a room-by-room history of everyday life and everyday objects) feels overly-contrived and, in practice, makes for a rather clumsy and wandering book. I could only put up with a very little bit at a time. It took me a month to finish. Nevertheless, I'm glad I read it . There are sundry interesting factoids to be had here, and you'll be a Let me preface this review by saying that, yes, I am a fan of Bill Bryson and I love history books. At Home is not Bryson's best work. Its loosely-organized premise (a room-by-room history of everyday life and everyday objects) feels overly-contrived and, in practice, makes for a rather clumsy and wandering book. I could only put up with a very little bit at a time. It took me a month to finish. Nevertheless, I'm glad I read it . There are sundry interesting factoids to be had here, and you'll be amazed at some of the surprising stories behind the development of modern life. I couldn't help but read some passages aloud to my husband, and there's plenty of \"Did you know...\" ammunition here to keep you stocked for many dinner parties to come :) In all honesty, this IS a book I would go back and read again. If you love Bryson, you'll be willing to put up with his meandering style, in return for his charming and congenial brand of storytelling. (In lesser hands than his, this book would be completely dry and dull. Though it's also likely no publisher would publish a book like this if not for Bill Bryson.) If you've not read Bryson before, don't let this book be your first. Start instead with one of his many travel-essay books or his childhood memoir, The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid . He's much better there. ...more This is a very hard book to categorize. Ostensibly, it's a description of the author's home in England, but that really doesn't cover it. All I could think of as I was reading it was a great conversation. If we went to his home - an English parsonage built in 1851 - for dinner we would, of course, talk about the house, but like all really great conversation the talk would ramble off in every direction with stories that had nothing to do with this particular house or houses in general for that ma This is a very hard book to categorize. Ostensibly, it's a description of the author's home in England, but that really doesn't cover it. All I could think of as I was reading it was a great conversation. If we went to his home - an English parsonage built in 1851 - for dinner we would, of course, talk about the house, but like all really great conversation the talk would ramble off in every direction with stories that had nothing to do with this particular house or houses in general for that matter only to touch base again and ramble of in another direction. That a discussion of English parsonages could cover the building of the Erie canal and the use of children in coal mines is not something usually found in history books - but can be found in a great dinner conversation. The fact that it is so rambling and disjointed caused one reviewer on Amazon to give it a one star rating. Poor man. He missed the point. Try a little more wine and enjoy the conversation. I loved the book! ...more Bryson brings us another fascinating tome filled with delightful trivia and anecdotes in this history of housing in Britain. The \u201chall\u201d as we know it today is a place to leave the muddy boots and hang coats. Originally, it *was* the whole house. With an open hearth in the middle and members of the family (this included slaves and servants since the one large room made everyone party of the unit) congregating around it, little was private and everyone shared in the heat (or lack thereof.) The inv Bryson brings us another fascinating tome filled with delightful trivia and anecdotes in this history of housing in Britain. The \u201chall\u201d as we know it today is a place to leave the muddy boots and hang coats. Originally, it *was* the whole house. With an open hearth in the middle and members of the family (this included slaves and servants since the one large room made everyone party of the unit) congregating around it, little was private and everyone shared in the heat (or lack thereof.) The invention of the chimney and fireplace (in the early 14th century) changed all that. Now private spaces could be created including an upstairs and separate rooms from which lesser members of the unit could be excluded. Sometimes fireplaces were built big enough to have seats in them since they radiated much less heat than the open hearth. On the other hand, smoke collecting on the ceiling would prevent birds from nesting there and many people complained that without the smoke they were more subject to ill-health. Bryson, as is his wont and to my delight, wanders all over the place. His section on food, the politics and reality of adulteration, and the early methods for saving and transporting ice are simply fascinating. Lots of delectable trivia regarding eating habits and what they ate. The 18th century was notoriously gluttonous. Queen Anne got so fat she couldn\u2019t walk upstairs and had to be lowered and raised through a trapdoor in the floor. That must have been a sight. And they ate foods we would never consider eating and sometimes vice versa. Lobster was considered such trash food that it was often written into agreements with servants they would not be served it more than twice a week, and in Massachusetts it was forbidden to serve it to prisoners. On the other hand in America Sturgeon was so plentiful that caviar was laid out on bars as snack food. The relationship between servants and upper crust is detailed enough to provide a useful companion to Gosford Park. It\u2019s perhaps ironic that servants might be said to really run the place and the tipping required of guests could make a weekend visit to the manor expensive indeed. Servants in America had a more egalitarian position - except in the South where slavery predominated. (It was pretty much abolished in the North after 1827.) The presence of servants and slaves had an effect on inventiveness and northern America was particularly adept at developing labor-saving devices although it must be noted that most of the labor saved was that done by men, some of the devices even increasing the workload of women. Electricity was to change all of that, and by WWI when blackout restrictions were vigorously enforced, people soon realized how accustomed they had become to having some ambient light at night. Cars were forbidden from even having dash lights so moving about at night became a distinct hazard. Bryson notes that during the first year of the war some 4000 people were killed in traffic accidents, a 100% increase over the previous year and the Germans, without dropping a bomb, were killing Britons at the rate of 600 per month. This book serves as a welcome antidote to those of us suffering from a delusional nostalgia for the past when the society we yearn for existed only among the rich; the rest dying young from numerous diseases we no longer even recognize, or working at laborious twelve-hour jobs for miserable pay, and having nothing to show for it. One of the most interesting sections dealt with the hazards of paint and wallpaper. I had no idea. Apparently, wallpaper was filled with toxic chemicals including a form of arsenic and moving a patient outside to fresher air had real benefits. It was noted early on that rooms with wallpaper had no bedbugs -- for good reason. Paint, as we now know, was also filled with noxious toxins and vivid, bright colors were prized, unlike the muted pastels we seem to favor today. The temptation when reading such a book is to fill one\u2019s review with delectable tidbits of trivia, a temptation to which I usually succumb. And, by the way, Thomas Jefferson created the french fry. ...more I have a brain crush on Bill Bryson. I find his books entertaining, insightful and delightfully humorous. \"At Home\" did not disappoint, giving a fascinating, rambling, Everything-But-the-Kitchen-Sink view of world history. The book is structured into chapters based on the different parts of a house, such as the kitchen, the drawing room, the cellar, the bedroom, etc. In the introduction, Bryson explains that he and his wife moved into a former church rectory in a village in eastern England, and s I have a brain crush on Bill Bryson. I find his books entertaining, insightful and delightfully humorous. \"At Home\" did not disappoint, giving a fascinating, rambling, Everything-But-the-Kitchen-Sink view of world history. The book is structured into chapters based on the different parts of a house, such as the kitchen, the drawing room, the cellar, the bedroom, etc. In the introduction, Bryson explains that he and his wife moved into a former church rectory in a village in eastern England, and some odd quirks of the Victorian house piqued his interest. Soon he was investigating why things are the way they are, and he shares some interesting stories of yesteryear. For example, why are salt and pepper the two main spices on a dining table? How was cement discovered? Who decided how stairs should be sized? When was the fuse box created? Why is there a telephone in the hallway? And on and on, covering dozens of inventions and events. One of the many things I liked about this book was the wide variety of topics discussed and how briskly Bryson moves through them. If he hits a subject you don't care for or one that you already know about, just wait a few minutes and he'll move on to something else. For example, during the chapter on the bathroom he discusses various cholera epidemics in England and who figured out that contaminated water was the problem, which is a subject I'm familiar with having read the excellent book \"The Ghost Map.\" So I waited patiently for Bryson to summarize the cholera info, and very soon he was on to discussing how <---C>Lon</---C>don's sewer system was developed. Brilliant! The book is wonderfully well-written -- as all Bryson books are -- and to try and pull good quotes is an exercise in retyping most of the text. But here are a few tidbits: \"It was unquestionably a strange world. Servants constituted a class of humans whose existences were fundamentally devoted to making certain that another class of humans would find everything they desired within arm's reach more or less the moment it occurred to them to desire it.\" (from The Scullery and Larder) \"Salt is now so ubiquitous and cheap that we forget how intensely desirable it once was, but for much of history it drove men to the edge of the world.\" (from The Dining Room) \"To the unending exasperation of the Chinese authorities, Britain became particularly skilled at persuading Chinese citizens to become opium addicts -- university courses in the history of marketing really ought to begin with British opium sales -- so much so that by 1838 Britain was selling almost five million pounds of opium to China every year.\" (from The Dining Room) \"The real problem with beds, certainly by the Victorian period, was that they were inseparable from that most troublesome of activities, sex ... To avoid arousal, women were instructed to get plenty of fresh air, avoid stimulating pastimes like reading and card games, and above all never to use their brains more than was strictly necessary.\" (from The Bedroom) \"So Whitney's [cotton] gin not only helped make many people rich on both sides of the Atlantic but also reinvigorated slavery, turned child labor into a necessity, and paved the way for the American Civil War. Perhaps at no other time in history has someone with a simple, well-meaning invention generated more general prosperity, personal disappointment, and inadvertent suffering than Eli Whitney with his gin.\" (from The Dressing Room) And on the first time that someone successfully drilled for oil in 1859: \"Although no one remotely appreciated it at the time, they had just changed the world completely and forever.\" (from The Fuse Box) I listened to \"At Home\" on audiobook, but I was glad to also have a print copy available to flip through because the printed book contains numerous photos and drawings of things referenced in the text, such as the Stone Age structure of Skara Brae, the famous Crystal Palace in 1851, the Eiffel Tower under construction, and Thomas Jefferson's Monticello home. There is also an impressive list of references for anyone who wants to do further research. This was the first time I've heard Bryson's voice. He is from my home state of Iowa (which has been humorously discussed in several of his books), but he has lived in England for so long that he's developed a charming accent. Bryson is a marvelous narrator and I hope to listen to his other books on audio, even ones I've read before. I would highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a whimsical look at history. ...more Well that wasn't very \"at home\" at all, quite frankly! But hey, it was still good! In <+++>At Home: A Short History of Private Life</+++> Bill Bryson, that transient American-Brit, is in England for this look at the house, that thing humans use to keep the rain off their heads. If you've ever gone out for a drive you've probably seen one. Using the house he bought in the Norfolk area of England (northeast of London), Bryson takes us for a lengthy and meandering tour of each room of the standard home from th Well that wasn't very \"at home\" at all, quite frankly! But hey, it was still good! In <+++>At Home: A Short History of Private Life</+++> Bill Bryson, that transient American-Brit, is in England for this look at the house, that thing humans use to keep the rain off their heads. If you've ever gone out for a drive you've probably seen one. Using the house he bought in the Norfolk area of England (northeast of London), Bryson takes us for a lengthy and meandering tour of each room of the standard home from the cellar to the attic. He also details a few different styles of homes over time and takes in a good deal of history in the bargain...Western history that is, and most of that is specific to the UK and US. The function, usage, transformation and more of each room is described, occasionally exhaustively. Tangents ensue often and are sometimes longwinded. For instance, while discussing the bedroom Bryson goes beyond sex and sleeping, getting on to the topics of surgical practices and the Plague among other things. As luck would have it, I'm the sort of person who loves facts, factoids, tidbits, walking encyclopedias, and brainiacs. When someone starts a sentence with \"Did you know...\", I'm the guy pulling my chair up closer. I am Bryson's perfect audience. Not everyone is, so I expect quite a few readers would be annoyed by the writer's wandering ways, especially house-lovers who aren't necessarily interested in Samuel Pepys' extramarital affairs and who just want to focus on the bloody house for the love of Frank Lloyd Wright! However, even I have my limits and this is probably my least favorite Bryson book so far, but that's not to say it's bad. It's quite good and I really enjoyed it. The thing is, I REALLY enjoyed the other books of his I've read so far and this one lacks the joy and exuberance of the others. RATING: 3.5 ...more A fun and mind expanding tour of Anglo-American cultural history structured loosely around the rooms of his Victorian rector\u2019s house in village in Norfolk, England. If you have experienced the pleasures of some of his travel books, you will recognize his method of using an experience in the present as a launching pad for circles of digression down many fascinating paths before returning with amazing insights into the curious behaviors and marvelous accomplishments of human creativity. It all sta A fun and mind expanding tour of Anglo-American cultural history structured loosely around the rooms of his Victorian rector\u2019s house in village in Norfolk, England. If you have experienced the pleasures of some of his travel books, you will recognize his method of using an experience in the present as a launching pad for circles of digression down many fascinating paths before returning with amazing insights into the curious behaviors and marvelous accomplishments of human creativity. It all started for him with wondering about oddities of his house, which led to a basic curiosity about how living in houses evolved. A farmer neighbor\u2019s discovery of a Roman artefact in a field made him consider why the civilized comforts of home enjoyed by the Romans took so long to reinvent: Now as I stood on the roof of my house, taking in this unexpected view, it struck me how rather glorious it was that in two thousand years of human activity the only thing that had stirred the notice of the outside world even briefly was the finding of a Roman phallic pendant. The rest was just daily business\u2014eating, sleeping, having sex, endeavoring to be amused\u2014and it occurred to me, with the forcefulness of a thought experienced in 360 degrees, that that\u2019s really what history mostly is: masses of people doing ordinary things. As an example, he uses a room like the kitchen for excursions into the history of diet, food preparation, food borne disease, appliances, cookbooks, entertaining, etiquette, and servants. The obscene and often absurd excesses of the aristocracy makes for delicious forays, outdone only be American wannabes of the likes of Rockefellers and Vanderbilts. Even for a country rector like the man who occupied his house experienced a typical meal recorded in a published 1794 diary: Dover sole in lobster sauce, spring chicken, ox tongue, roast beef, soup, fillet of veal with morels and ruffles, pigeon pie, sweetbreads, green goose and peas, apricot jam, cheesecakes, stewed musrooms and trifle Beyond obvious rooms like the bedroom, dining room, and bathroom, others used for his explorations include scullery, larder, nursery, cellar, attic, stairway, and garden. As just one example, the innovation of glass windows leads you to the story of William Paxton\u2019s construction in five months of the Glass Palace in Hyde Park, the largest building in the world and built from a million square feet of glass and cast iron struts to house 14,000 exhibits of progress of the Industrial Age. By the time you are done you will have an appreciation of hidden connections of history and creativity that underlie the domestic life we take for granted. Along the way you have a frame to hang a lot of knowledge from such fields as art, architecture, anthropology, sociology, linguistics, economics, public health, and technology. The kaleiodoscope of the reading experience makes for a fascinating ride that doesn\u2019t always cohere to a logical. With Bryson, that doesn\u2019t matter as his curiosity, erudition, and wit draws you eagerly on in the adventure of his journey. ...more Bill Bryson's curiosity is boundless, and he loves research. He seems to have a particular fondness for digging up bizarre, creepy, and freaky tidbits to share with his readers. If you don't mind skimming over the dull parts, At Home is worth reading for all the trivia and historical weirdness Bryson shares. The book is essentially a history of domestic life in Britain and America--its comforts and discomforts, and the inventions along the way that made things easier and cleaner. I found both th Bill Bryson's curiosity is boundless, and he loves research. He seems to have a particular fondness for digging up bizarre, creepy, and freaky tidbits to share with his readers. If you don't mind skimming over the dull parts, At Home is worth reading for all the trivia and historical weirdness Bryson shares. The book is essentially a history of domestic life in Britain and America--its comforts and discomforts, and the inventions along the way that made things easier and cleaner. I found both the title and chapter headings to be a bit misleading, but Bryson was going for a sort of theme that didn't quite come together. If he'd dropped the theme, the book could have been organized a lot more sensibly. Several of the chapters could be named Architecture, More Architecture, and Still More Architecture. I had to scan over all the long architectural descriptions. I like to look at architecture, but it numbs my brain to read about it. The chapter called The Passage should be entitled VERMIN! *shudder* And the chapter called The Garden would be more appropriately called Cemeteries, Guano, and More Vermin. Oh, and trust me on this: You do NOT want to read the chapter on The Bathroom at any time directly before, during, or directly after meals. GROSS! If you like history and don't mind \"editing\" as you go along (i.e. scan past the boring stuff), you can learn a lot from this book. If nothing else, it will cure you forever of wishing you lived in \"the good old days.\" As a little teaser, here are some of the strange, fascinating, and alarming things you'll discover in this book: * In the 1780s, it was fashionable to wear fake eyebrows made of mouse skin. * Contrary to common legend, the person who invented the brassiere was not named Otto Titzling. * If you completely remove zinc from your diet, your taste buds will stop working. * A sample of ice cream in London in 1881 contained human hair, cat hair, insects, and cotton fibers, among other things. EEEEEEEWWWWW! * If a girl wears a corset six days a week, she can reduce her waist size from 23 inches to 13 inches in just two years. * The expression \"in the limelight\" comes from the days before light bulbs, when they actually burned lumps of lime to light up the theater stage. *Of the total energy produced on Earth since the Industrial Revolution began, half has been consumed in just the last twenty years. (Wake up, America.) ...more There are quite a few people I know and respect that don\u2019t really like Bill Bryson. I\u2019ve never quite understood why not. I\u2019m actually very fond of his writing and from this distance I even tend to think he has the perfect life. I mean, you would think that the word dilettante (or perhaps autodidact) had been created just for him. Wouldn\u2019t you love to have the time to think to yourself, \u2018gosh, I wonder how houses first came to be as they are\u2019 \u2013 and then to spend, I don\u2019t know, a year? two years? There are quite a few people I know and respect that don\u2019t really like Bill Bryson. I\u2019ve never quite understood why not. I\u2019m actually very fond of his writing and from this distance I even tend to think he has the perfect life. I mean, you would think that the word dilettante (or perhaps autodidact) had been created just for him. Wouldn\u2019t you love to have the time to think to yourself, \u2018gosh, I wonder how houses first came to be as they are\u2019 \u2013 and then to spend, I don\u2019t know, a year? two years? finding out. Then once you have found out to write down all of your more amusing titbits in an engaging book. Does it really get better than that? I\u2019ve been known to complain about what I call \u2018whiteboard books\u2019 before. These are the kinds of books that are written on a topic that has popped into someone\u2019s head \u2013 say, potatoes \u2013 and first they go to a whiteboard and draw a huge mindmap and then ardently fill in all the gaps \u2013 although, sometimes ardent isn\u2019t quite the right adjective, the resulting meal having too much of the texture of bran. Generally, these books need a unifying theme \u2013 in the case of this book a walk around the person\u2019s house, or in say Atlantic: Great Sea Battles, Heroic Discoveries, Titanic Storms,and a Vast Ocean of a Million Stories the seven ages of man. These unifying frames often don\u2019t quite work the whole way though the book, the frame struggles to contain all of the picture \u2013 and if I had one criticism of this book it was that there were quite a few times when I thought, \u2018hang on, which room are we supposed to be in again? Why is he talking about this in the passage?\u2019 But the truth is that you need to more or less put the organising scheme out of your mind when you read these kinds of books (otherwise that way madness lies) and just take these books as being a kind of ideal dinner party with someone chatting away amusingly and knowledgeably about things it would be hard not to find interesting. That is, the kind of dinner party you might wish you actually got invited too. Which really must be one of the great benefits of books. I think we don\u2019t actually read just to know we are not alone \u2013 we read to spend time with people being at their best behaviour and trying hard to be at their most interesting. Few people can really sustain this for an entire book \u2013 Bryson has proven able to sustain it throughout many, many volumes. The part of this book I found the most interesting was right towards the end where he does his best to dispel the myth that childhood is a very recent invention and that parents loving their children is likewise a modern idea brought about by the remarkable drop in infant mortality the last hundred years have brought about. The idea that people \u2018couldn\u2019t afford\u2019 to love their children \u2013 because their subsequent dying in infancy would be too painful for them to allow such affection \u2013 can almost seem to make sense in a strange sort of way. However, I think he makes it clear that, really, such a view is pretty well counter to all of the evidence. This is a book where someone wanders about picking up interesting bits and pieces that initially might seem quite commonplace and then explaining just what it is that makes them quite so interesting. It is light read, but never slight, and just often enough makes you smile or laugh or gasp in revulsion in that way everyone enjoys. This was lots of fun and well worth the read. ...more Reading this book is rather like having a trivia buff give you a sixteen-hour, cocaine-fueled tour of his house. It is exhilarating, exhausting, and often alarming. \u201cIt is always quietly thrilling to find yourself looking at a world you know well but have never seen from such an angle before.\u201d \u2015 Bill Bryson, At Home: A Short History of Private Life Bryson uses his own family's Victorian parsonage to map out the history (mainly focused on the 18th - 20th Century) of the private life. His discussion of specific rooms ends up allowing Bryson to tangent off onto related topics as wide and varied as sex, family, shit, medicine, architecture, makeup, rope-making, \u201cIt is always quietly thrilling to find yourself looking at a world you know well but have never seen from such an angle before.\u201d \u2015 Bill Bryson, At Home: A Short History of Private Life Bryson uses his own family's Victorian parsonage to map out the history (mainly focused on the 18th - 20th Century) of the private life. His discussion of specific rooms ends up allowing Bryson to tangent off onto related topics as wide and varied as sex, family, shit, medicine, architecture, makeup, rope-making, etc. This book is a movement through a house that allows Bryson to riff on people and ideas that are funny, iconic, and always peculiar. Bryson is amazing at flipping over a stone and telling three different stories about the stone, the flip, and the bugs hiding underneath the stone. He will also examine the shoe that flipped the stone and occasionally inserts his own experience with stones and shoes. There is rarely a Bryson book that I hasn't made me laugh verbally while reading and filled me with a sort of awe at his ease at relaying interesting trivia and making you look at a place (his travelogues are amazing), a time, or a people in a different way. My wife and I share a love of books, but the oven diagrams of our interests don't often intersect. Bill Bryson is one of those authors we can both read, both enjoy, and often quote back and forth as we read. He seems to possess the same, self-efacing, Midwestern wit as Garrison Keillor, but with just a bit more Anglophile whipped in. This book follows his the model of his other expansive history: A Short History of Nearly Everything . ...more Tremendously interesting history book for people with ADD and butterfly minds. It's as if someone had taken an encyclopedia and very cleverly joined all the entries so it looked like a proper book. Oh, it was a proper book! Well then, very clever. This book has lots of interesting factoids but these are buried under many pages-long avalanches of words about \"unfairly neglected\" minor personages of history. It sort of delivers on the promise of telling us something about the home we live in and what's inside it, but the cost of that information is a ton of tangential trivia I found extremely boring. Others surely find all the meandering anecdotes entertaining and that's fine, but then the book should be titled something like \"shooting the This book has lots of interesting factoids but these are buried under many pages-long avalanches of words about \"unfairly neglected\" minor personages of history. It sort of delivers on the promise of telling us something about the home we live in and what's inside it, but the cost of that information is a ton of tangential trivia I found extremely boring. Others surely find all the meandering anecdotes entertaining and that's fine, but then the book should be titled something like \"shooting the breeze with Bill Bryson; a rather long history of inconsequential trivia.\" I liked the premise of the book and was hoping for something that stuck with it and got to the point a bit more often. ...more Read by His Nibs himself. Description: \u201cHouses aren\u2019t refuges from history. They are where history ends up.\u201d Bill Bryson and his family live in a Victorian parsonage in a part of England where nothing of any great significance has happened since the Romans decamped. Yet one day, he began to consider how very little he knew about the ordinary things of life as he found it in that comfortable home. To remedy this, he formed the idea of journeying about his house from room to room to \u201cwrite a histor Read by His Nibs himself. Description: \u201cHouses aren\u2019t refuges from history. They are where history ends up.\u201d Bill Bryson and his family live in a Victorian parsonage in a part of England where nothing of any great significance has happened since the Romans decamped. Yet one day, he began to consider how very little he knew about the ordinary things of life as he found it in that comfortable home. To remedy this, he formed the idea of journeying about his house from room to room to \u201cwrite a history of the world without leaving home.\u201d The bathroom provides the occasion for a history of hygiene; the bedroom, sex, death, and sleep; the kitchen, nutrition and the spice trade; and so on, as Bryson shows how each has figured in the evolution of private life. Whatever happens in the world, he demonstrates, ends up in our house, in the paint and the pipes and the pillows and every item of furniture. Everything AND the kitchen sink in this one. Even though I was late to this particular house party, the praise I mentally lavish on 'At Home' will make up for this tardiness. ...more Ooh, yes please. This is juuust the kind of thing I like. It reminds me of trying to organize a closet, where one thing leads to something else, and something else, and something else until you find yourself in the middle of re-installing a light fixture and you look over and the closet is in a mess all over the floor...anyway where was I? Yeah, anyway, it's actually much better organized than I make it sound, and somehow manages to be organized chronologically AND spatially AND at the same time Ooh, yes please. This is juuust the kind of thing I like. It reminds me of trying to organize a closet, where one thing leads to something else, and something else, and something else until you find yourself in the middle of re-installing a light fixture and you look over and the closet is in a mess all over the floor...anyway where was I? Yeah, anyway, it's actually much better organized than I make it sound, and somehow manages to be organized chronologically AND spatially AND at the same time charming, and on practically every page you go \"huh! I didn't know that!\" Warning: the \"Bedroom\" and \"Nursery\" chapters are not for the faint of heart. ...more I really love Bill Bryson...entertaining, enlightening, and an all around good read. I'm now driving my wife crazy by bringing up little \"tid-bit\" facts that I learned from this book. Full review shortly but I wanted to at least move this off my \"reading\" to the \"done\" state. When Bill Bryson moved into an old rectory in the English countryside, he became curious about the various features of his house and how they came into being. In At Home, he traces the development of human domestic living from its often unexpected origins to the taken-for-granted, gadget-filled dwellings we now live in. This is my first book of Bryson's, but I will definitely be reading more. He has a clear, engaging style that has a way of making everything he talks about deeply interesting. Whi When Bill Bryson moved into an old rectory in the English countryside, he became curious about the various features of his house and how they came into being. In At Home, he traces the development of human domestic living from its often unexpected origins to the taken-for-granted, gadget-filled dwellings we now live in. This is my first book of Bryson's, but I will definitely be reading more. He has a clear, engaging style that has a way of making everything he talks about deeply interesting. While I have never consciously needed to know things like who first struck upon the idea of selling ice for food preservation or what the \"board\" in room and board actually referred to or why all suits have those useless buttons on the sleeves, I finished this book feeling like enormous gaps in my knowledge of basic history had suddenly been filled. I also came away from this book being exceedingly grateful that I live in the century that I do and not in, say, pre-sewer system 19th century London. While Bryson's discussion of certain aspects of our attempts to develop civilized living is not always pleasant, the majority of the book is both educating and entertaining, and well recommended. ...more I read this book against my better judgement, and indeed my judgement was right. Having read A Walk in the Woods by the same author, my daughter's mother-in-law, though I was quite open about not liking it, thought I'd like this one. And I do like this kind of book...one that wanders around history making unexpected connections and has little asides of coincidence. But I find Bryson to be arrogant and patronizing. Clearly an Anglophile he speaks with disdain of other nationalities. If you don't b I read this book against my better judgement, and indeed my judgement was right. Having read A Walk in the Woods by the same author, my daughter's mother-in-law, though I was quite open about not liking it, thought I'd like this one. And I do like this kind of book...one that wanders around history making unexpected connections and has little asides of coincidence. But I find Bryson to be arrogant and patronizing. Clearly an Anglophile he speaks with disdain of other nationalities. If you don't believe he's full of himself and his stilted writing style full of double negatives and passive sentences don't mark him as a fine intellect, his numerous parenthetical comments, underlining his own self-defined cleverness and the foolhardy-ness of the rest of the world should convince you. Jeeze. There are some fine books in this genre....but this isn't one of them. ...more It took me a while to warm up to this one. All the other Bill Bryson books I've read have been about, well...Bill Bryson. HIS trip to Australia - In a Sunburned Country , HIS hike on the Appalachian Trail - A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail , HIS childhood in Iowa - The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid . This book seemed mostly like a list of facts. Then around chapter five, The Scullery and Larder, while I was learning about servants and the running of massive It took me a while to warm up to this one. All the other Bill Bryson books I've read have been about, well...Bill Bryson. HIS trip to Australia - In a Sunburned Country , HIS hike on the Appalachian Trail - A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail , HIS childhood in Iowa - The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid . This book seemed mostly like a list of facts. Then around chapter five, The Scullery and Larder, while I was learning about servants and the running of massive estates - one house had 600 copper pots and pans! - I fell under its spell. True, the book is a collection of facts, but what fascinating facts they are. Everything from the spice trade to the building of the Erie canal to why a fork has four tines. Bryson's meandering style may drive some readers to drink. A little of this, a little of that...no deep delving on any subject, but I liked it. He manages to trip merrily from bedding material to syphilis to mourning rituals in a matter of 14 pages. Quite honestly, I found the few pages he devoted to London's 1854 cholera outbreak just as informative as the almost 300 page The Ghost Map: The Story of London's Most Terrifying Epidemic--and How It Changed Science, Cities, and the Modern World . I added many titles from the bibliography to my \"to-be-read\" list, so thanks for that, Bryson. I think. ...more This was awesome. Absolutely awesome. For anyone with even a passing interest in history, interior design, sociology, anthropology, cultural evolution...this is an absolute must. Took a while to get through, but so worth it. In fact, this is the first book I ever took notes for, it was simply too dense, too resplendent with facts and information...although notably unlike a textbook. Writing wise this is Bryson at his best, witty, funny, erudite, droll, expansive. Not a grumpy old man so much as This was awesome. Absolutely awesome. For anyone with even a passing interest in history, interior design, sociology, anthropology, cultural evolution...this is an absolute must. Took a while to get through, but so worth it. In fact, this is the first book I ever took notes for, it was simply too dense, too resplendent with facts and information...although notably unlike a textbook. Writing wise this is Bryson at his best, witty, funny, erudite, droll, expansive. Not a grumpy old man so much as an intelligent inquiring mind, amazed and delighted by the world's idiosyncrasies, which is actually how you might feel after reading this book. Leaving no area of the home unexplored in chapters not only exceedingly informative, but also charmingly wild with wild digressions, Bryson covers centuries of evolution as civilization has become...well, civilized properly. Proper plumbing, proper beds, proper all sorts of creature comforts. This is probably as much fun as nonfiction books can be while maintaining the learn something aura. And in fact a reader does learn, tons of information, some alarming, some odd, all fascinating, with a great anecdotal quality to them, which is partially while I took notes. Like all great educational books it doesn't just change the world, it helps you frame the world you know from an enlightened position...a terrific thing for a fairly ambitious autodidact such as myself. I'd recommend this book to anyone, any inquiring mind, any armchair historian, it's seriously great and, greatly, not all that serious in tone. Read this book. ...more This is pretty fascinating and I generally like Bill Bryson, but the book is heavily concentrated on the fascinating discoveries/inventions/accomplishments of men. Women are only mentioned for the silly things they did as the wives of these men or for writing silly books Bryson describes as \"unreadable then and probably unreadable now.\" Apparently in all his exhaustive research on the history of private life, Bryson found no significant contributions by women. Whenever I'm asked about my favorite authors, Bill Bryson always makes the list. Not only has he written a string of humorous yet informative travel narratives, he's also penned a memoir about his 1950s childhood and a variety of non-fiction books on topics as diverse as the English language, Shakespeare and a rather grand attempt at a book called A Short History of Nearly Everything. Bryson is able to make whatever he is writing about amazingly interesting while also being gently humorous. I've Whenever I'm asked about my favorite authors, Bill Bryson always makes the list. Not only has he written a string of humorous yet informative travel narratives, he's also penned a memoir about his 1950s childhood and a variety of non-fiction books on topics as diverse as the English language, Shakespeare and a rather grand attempt at a book called A Short History of Nearly Everything. Bryson is able to make whatever he is writing about amazingly interesting while also being gently humorous. I've always thought that if Bill Bryson wrote the history and English textbooks for schools, everyone would do their required reading and come away bursting with information and insights. Whenever someone tells me that they don't like nonfiction, I always ask if they've read Bill Bryson. To me, he is the epitome of the accessible nonfiction writer, and I would follow him anywhere. In At Home: A Short History of Private Life, I followed Bryson as he toured his family home, which just so happens to be an old English parsonage. As he goes through each room, he ruminates about why we live the way we do and how the rooms and things in our homes evolved. The journey through the house is riveting and educational\u2014answering such questions as: Why are salt and pepper the two condiments we keep on our kitchen tables? What does \"board\" mean in the phrase \"room and board?\" Why are there four tines on a fork? Why do men have a row of pointless buttons on their suit jacket sleeves? Each chapter focuses on a different room, allowing Bryson to explore things such as the history of hygiene in the bathroom, the advent of electricity while poking around the fuse box, and the important issues of sex, death and sleeping while visiting the bedroom. It is an ingenious way to structure the book, and it gives Bryson lots of leeway to ramble about wherever his interests and research took him. For the most part, Bryson focuses on the last 150 years, which encompasses the time from when his home was built until modern times\u2014and also, as Bryson points out, when \"the modern world was really born. The book is packed with interesting stories, facts, anecdotes and histories that if I took the time to tell you about all the ones that interested me, I would be writing a book myself. So, I'll content myself with sharing a few excerpts from the book that I highlighted while reading. (And even then I had to cut out a few because I highlighted so many.) On the popularity of hermitages: For a time it was highly fashionable to build a hermitage and install in it a live-in hermit. At Painshill in Surrey, one man signed a contract to live seven years in picturesque seclusion, observing a monastic silence, for \u00a3100 a year, but was fired after just three weeks when he was spotted drinking in the local pub. Statistics on stairs: Everybody trips on stairs at some time or other. It has been calculated that you are likely to miss a step once in every 2,222 occasions you use stairs, suffer a minor accident once in every 63,000 uses, suffer a painful accident once in every 734,000, and need hospital attention once every 3,616,667 uses. On Christopher Columbus: It would be hard to name any figure in history who has achieved more lasting fame with less competence. He spent large parts of eight years bouncing around Caribbean islands and coastal South America convinced that he was in the heart of the Orient and that Japan and China were at the edge of every sunset. He never worked out that Cuba is an island and never once set foot on, or even suspected the existence of, the landmass to the north that everyone thinks he discovered: the United States. He filled his holds with valueless iron pyrite (thinking it was gold) and with what he confidently believed to be cinnamon and pepper. The first was actually a worthless tree bark, and the second were not true peppers but chili peppers\u2014excellent when you have grasped the general idea of them, but a little eye-wateringly astonishing A more interesting side effect of lead paint: One of the quirks of lead poisoning is that it causes an enlargement of the retina that makes some victims see halos around objects\u2014an effect Vincent van Gogh famously exploited in his paintings. It is probable that he was suffering lead poisoning himself. Artists often did. On servant-master sleep arrangements: Even at home, it was entirely usual for a servant to sleep at the foot of his master\u2019s bed, regardless of what his master might be doing within the bed. The records make clear that King Henry V\u2019s steward and chamberlain both were present when he bedded Catherine of Valois. On the difficulties of getting medical care while being a woman: As late as 1878 the British Medical Journal was able to run a spirited and protracted correspondence on whether a menstruating woman\u2019s touch could spoil a ham. On the dangers of life before proper sewer systems: Most sewage went into cesspits, but these were commonly neglected, and the contents often seeped into neighboring water supplies. In the worst cases they overflowed. Samuel Pepys recorded one such occasion in his diary: \u201cGoing down into my cellar \u2026 I put my foot into a great heap of turds \u2026 by which I found that Mr Turner\u2019s house of office is full and comes into my cellar, which doth trouble me.\u201d I just adored this book and was engrossed through all 512 pages. This is vintage Bryson, and his fans will not be disappointed. And, if you've never read a Bill Bryson book before, I strongly encourage you to do so. No one presents history with as much humor, accessibility and curiosity as Bryson. (And if there is someone who does, I need to know who it is!) And since we all live in homes of some kind, I'm sure everyone will find something of interest in this book. After all, we are all benefiting from the advances and history described in this book. For my part, I know that I'll never turn on a light, flush a toilet, sit in a chair, or walk up a flight of stairs without thinking of some anecdote from this book. Highly recommended. ...more 3 stars - It was good. Instead of reading this one from cover to cover, I think it would have been a more enjoyable experience if read one chapter at a time, intermittently, while reading other books. It was a bit more dry and straight forward than A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail , but Bryson still made it light and funny with his delightfully witty sense of humor. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: Columbus's real achievement was managing 3 stars - It was good. Instead of reading this one from cover to cover, I think it would have been a more enjoyable experience if read one chapter at a time, intermittently, while reading other books. It was a bit more dry and straight forward than A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail , but Bryson still made it light and funny with his delightfully witty sense of humor. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: Columbus's real achievement was managing to cross the ocean successfully in both directions. Though an accomplished enough mariner, he was not terribly good at a great deal else, especially geography, the skill that would seem most vital in an explorer. It would be hard to name any figure in history who has achieved more lasting fame with less competence. He spent large parts of eight years bouncing around Caribbean islands and coastal South America convinced that he was in the heart of the Orient and that Japan and China were at the edge of every sunset. He never worked out that Cuba is an island and never once set foot on, or even suspected the existence of, the landmass to the north that everyone thinks he discovered: the United States. First Sentence: Some time after my wife and I moved into a former Church of England rectory in a village of tranquil anonymity in Norfolk, in the easternmost part of England, I had occasion to go up into the attic to look for the source of a slow but mysterious drip. ...more I am still reading At Home, but it was an instant hit with me. I like Bill Bryson, for the most part, and he seems to be a family favorite around here. This is essentially a sampling of English history, told through the rooms of the parsonage in which Bryson lives in England. Basically, he wanders into the kitchen, say, and spins the history of how people once lived in one-room houses with a side kitchen, tells what they ate, what their hygiene was like and how classes were or were not separated I am still reading At Home, but it was an instant hit with me. I like Bill Bryson, for the most part, and he seems to be a family favorite around here. This is essentially a sampling of English history, told through the rooms of the parsonage in which Bryson lives in England. Basically, he wanders into the kitchen, say, and spins the history of how people once lived in one-room houses with a side kitchen, tells what they ate, what their hygiene was like and how classes were or were not separated. In the bedroom, he might discuss intimacy, marriage and sex, and so on. It is very informative about history and is a nice anthropological study of people who lived from the year 1851 on (the date of his home's being built). I like it a lot and it makes a nice non-fiction accompaniment to my current fiction reading. I should add, now that I've read a lot more, that the history includes anywhere in the world, since a country's progression depends so much on where it gets it's products, who it conquers, etc. The spice trade and the history of British colonies, architecture in the United States, world-wide diseases--it's all here. ...more This is one of the most fascinating, yet boring books I\u2019ve ever read. If I were Bill Bryson\u2019s editor, I would have changed the title to At Home: A Million Tangents Of Private Life . My husband downloaded the audiobook and has listened to it twice already (he\u2019s a huge Bryson fan!). While driving, I\u2019d hear pieces here and there and I thought to myself, \u201cI\u2019ve got to read this book.\u201d While I read it, I discussed it with my husband. He didn\u2019t agree with me when I said that I thought Bryson was often p This is one of the most fascinating, yet boring books I\u2019ve ever read. If I were Bill Bryson\u2019s editor, I would have changed the title to At Home: A Million Tangents Of Private Life . My husband downloaded the audiobook and has listened to it twice already (he\u2019s a huge Bryson fan!). While driving, I\u2019d hear pieces here and there and I thought to myself, \u201cI\u2019ve got to read this book.\u201d While I read it, I discussed it with my husband. He didn\u2019t agree with me when I said that I thought Bryson was often piggy backing from tangent to tangent. Each chapter is devoted to certain rooms in the home such as: Kitchen, Bedroom, Hallway, Nursery, Cellar, Attic, and on and on. Bryson explains in great detail the history and evolution of each room. I recently left my career so I could be a full-time stay-at-home-mom (aka domestic engineer). So I spend a lot of time at home. I love reading books on homemaking and the evolution of domestic living, so I assumed I was going to love At Home. And ya know what? I did\u2026 when Bryson was on the subject of life at home. But so many times, he\u2019d throw in a story about this person who knew that guy who was related to the aristocrat that moved to America and blah blah blah! In all honesty, if I didn\u2019t have the audiobook, I would have abandoned the paper edition. There is also an illustrated edition that I checked out of our library to compliment my audio readings. The pictures are very interesting and gave me a clear visual of the topic at hand. He even threw in pics of those people. zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Would I recommend this book? ABSOLUTELY!!! But I\u2019d recommend the audiobook so you can clean your house while listening to Bryson describe the filth that we\u2019ve pretty much left in the past. When a boring tangent is thrown in, tune him out, like I did \uf04a One thing is certain, we have it easy today with our clean water, electric or gas powered washers/dryers, medications and the list goes on and on\u2026. ...more Years ago I visited a bookstore that had once been a home. The proprietors had a sense of whimsy that resulted in certain types of books being in certain rooms. The cookbook section had once been the kitchen, the humor section was in the bathroom, and I think the children's books and romance section were situated in the appropriate bedrooms. Bill Bryson has taken a similar approach to this book. He walks the reader through the former Church of England rectory in which his family lives. In each ro Years ago I visited a bookstore that had once been a home. The proprietors had a sense of whimsy that resulted in certain types of books being in certain rooms. The cookbook section had once been the kitchen, the humor section was in the bathroom, and I think the children's books and romance section were situated in the appropriate bedrooms. Bill Bryson has taken a similar approach to this book. He walks the reader through the former Church of England rectory in which his family lives. In each room he muses on the history of that room and everything that has taken place in similar rooms throughout the course of history. The dining room is a jumping off point for a discussion of not only how salt and pepper became the two spices on every Western table, but also the history of spices. The bathroom chapter is partly about the history of flush toilets and sewers, partly about the epidemics that resulted from lack of the latter. I wasn't entirely sure why the entire chapter on \"The Study\" was taken up by our human history with mice and rats, but otherwise the book is a logical and methodical short history of private life, as the subtitle allows. Bryson is entertaining, as always. He knows how to make history come alive through the use of anecdotes, quotes, and startling facts. There are entire books that have been written on many of the subjects on which he touches in this book, such as salt, sewage, and servitude. Some of the subjects have gotten less attention; I don't think I've ever read of the travails of past-century launderers. Bryson doesn't attempt to make this book comprehensive; he acknowledges that it is only an overview. Nevertheless, it's a great book for making the reader appreciate the everyday things - again, from salt to sewers - that we often take for granted. ...more Resident information sponge Bill Bryson goes through his home, room-by-room, to present the history of private life and how many of the items we see and interact with on a daily basis came to find their way into our everyday lives. At Home feels like a handbook for making small talk at social gatherings. Let\u2019s look at a few talking points: Next time your friend tells you about her trip to Paris, you could mention that when the city had opened submissions for a monument that would eventually become Resident information sponge Bill Bryson goes through his home, room-by-room, to present the history of private life and how many of the items we see and interact with on a daily basis came to find their way into our everyday lives. At Home feels like a handbook for making small talk at social gatherings. Let\u2019s look at a few talking points: Next time your friend tells you about her trip to Paris, you could mention that when the city had opened submissions for a monument that would eventually become the Eiffel Tower, a proposal was also given to erect a giant 900 foot guillotine. Not quite as romantic, right? Is your friend remodeling their home? You could mention that early designs had a home consisting of one giant room dubbed \u201cthe hall\u201d. Additional rooms and floors only became viable when the chimney was invented to funnel out smoke from the open hearth. Who wants to walk around in a haze of smoke? Well, smoke from a wood stove, I suppose. This one took me a while to read. I found that as with most Bryson books, I can only take so much in a single sitting considering the wave of information his books unleash. While most of it is interesting, some of it was a bit of a slog to get through. Luckily, what I found to be boring was on the short end of the stick. After laying down this big ol\u2019 book, I\u2019ve now got three Bryson novels under my belt. Unfortunately, this is probably my least favorite. That isn\u2019t to say it\u2019s poorly written, I just found the subject matter of the other two (One Summer and A Walk in the Woods) more interesting as the book went on. ...more Perhaps it's because I've been waiting for so long and so enthusiastically for Bryson's newest, but I was a tad disappointed. Don't get me wrong, I still liked it. It's impossible NOT to like Bryson's work. I just had one major complaint. He divides his history of private life into chapters named for rooms of the house, the proceeds to either give a related history (as in the bathroom) or stretches the connection in order to discuss a mostly or entirely unrelated subject while still keeping his c Perhaps it's because I've been waiting for so long and so enthusiastically for Bryson's newest, but I was a tad disappointed. Don't get me wrong, I still liked it. It's impossible NOT to like Bryson's work. I just had one major complaint. He divides his history of private life into chapters named for rooms of the house, the proceeds to either give a related history (as in the bathroom) or stretches the connection in order to discuss a mostly or entirely unrelated subject while still keeping his chapter heading scheme (as in the study). All of it was interesting, but it had a disjointed feel. Transitions were shaky or abrupt, and he didn't cover many things that I thought he should have. Other things he mentioned briefly would have benefited from additional discussion, but were left with one or two sentences. Additionally, it wasn't a complete history of private life but rather of life (private and public) in Victorian England, with forays into 19th century America and the odd reference to ancient Rome or prehistoric times. I think that a different title (and indeed subtitle) would have made all the difference in the world when I read this. If you go into At Home expecting a history of all the important changes that happened in Victorian times that essentially changed life from medieval to modern and ignore all of the misleading chapter headings, I think you'll enjoy it a lot more. It may lack the clear organization of his A Short History of Nearly Everything, but it's still an enjoyable trip through Bryson's inquisitive, amusing mind. ...more This fascinating book takes the reader through many centuries of domestic evolution - and has been well researched, judging from the 25 pages of bibliography. While the narrative is heavy going at times, which some may consider involves excessive detail, it nevertheless paints a harrowing picture of life in previous centuries, particularly the 18th and 19th, where the growth of towns and the later industrial revolution involved unthinkable crowding, squalor, disease and suffering. While not dispu This fascinating book takes the reader through many centuries of domestic evolution - and has been well researched, judging from the 25 pages of bibliography. While the narrative is heavy going at times, which some may consider involves excessive detail, it nevertheless paints a harrowing picture of life in previous centuries, particularly the 18th and 19th, where the growth of towns and the later industrial revolution involved unthinkable crowding, squalor, disease and suffering. While not disputing that poverty still exists in the developed world, try to imagine what it was like without the basic services we now take for granted: such as gas, electricity, clean running water and, most of all, flush toilets and sewage disposal. Many of these facilities were unavailable in Queen Victoria\u2019s reign, so even the riches of the aristocracy weren\u2019t able to provide some of the comfort we now take for granted. With no benefit system, the poor in earlier times also had to endure excessive deprivation, not to mention a terrible existence for many in the Workhouses. Reading the book brought me to realise that adults from middle age upwards are perhaps living through a time of peak privilege, with so many unknowns that could apply to developments for the younger generation throughout the world during this 21st century and beyond. I would recommend this book, if for no other reason than to focus attention on where our lifestyle developed from - and where it is likely to be heading? ...more", "Title": "At Home: A Short History of Private Life"},
