{"Comments": "Basically what my two stars boils down to is this: I had too many questions by the end and I didn't feel attached to any of the characters. I didn't think the \"big reveal\" was all that exciting or as terrifying as I'm sure it was meant to be either. And the more I found out about the world, such as the technology or what happened in the past, the more questions I had that were never answered. I realize this is a short story and it continues on, but if you're going to sell me a book it needs to f Basically what my two stars boils down to is this: I had too many questions by the end and I didn't feel attached to any of the characters. I didn't think the \"big reveal\" was all that exciting or as terrifying as I'm sure it was meant to be either. And the more I found out about the world, such as the technology or what happened in the past, the more questions I had that were never answered. I realize this is a short story and it continues on, but if you're going to sell me a book it needs to feel whole. Normally when a story features a husband and wife and something happens to one of them I'm a ball of emotions, but this couple's relationship felt flat and mechanical. At one point the guy talks about sobbing through the bars of the jail and I felt absolutely nothing. There's this level of despair that I'm supposed to be feeling for these two people,<---M> their relationship</---M>, and their potential offspring, but I honestly couldn't care less if the whole silo went up in flames and everybody died.<---F> That's probably not a good sign</---F>. Thankfully, Howey writes well so I didn't feel like I was slogging through this and I never felt bored, but I'm not the biggest fan of post-apocalyptic dystopia (<---B>or short stories, for that matter</---B>) so I think fans of the genre would enjoy it more than I did. This is free on Amazon right now and the omnibus version that contains the first five books is only $1.99 (at the time of this review it was, now on 4/6/13 I see it's been bumped up to $5.99. Hrm.) With the first story being so short and also free it's an easy choice to find out for yourself if it's something you'd like to check out or not. I didn't love this story but Howey dangled just enough in front of me that I might want to find out what happens next, but honestly I don't think I'll ever care enough to continue. I just don't think I'm the intended audience. Also, here's hoping my choice to read and review a self-published book doesn't come back to haunt me. Oh lord, what have I done ... ...more A Badass Hidden Gem... http://badassbookreviews.com/badass-h... OMG, this short story was absolutely fantastic. Who is this author and why is he not on everyone's radar. Must read, don't think about it, it's a short story and won't take up much of your time and I think it's only 99 cents, just go get it! Hurry...go.......why are you still reading this...gooooo Go now... <+++>Wool</+++> by <---A>Hugh Howey</---A> is a short but worthy read. The author masterfully conveys the feeling of desperation, doom, and unrest that stem from questionably voluntary living/imprisonment in the confines of a giant concrete underground shelter in the toxic world, as well as the overpowering need and drive to find out whether there is truth in the faint but forbidden hope that there just may be something better outside. For such a short book, the themes are very well-developed. The narration is great, t <+++>Wool</+++> by Hugh Howey is a short but worthy read. The author masterfully conveys the feeling of desperation, doom, and unrest that stem from questionably voluntary living/imprisonment in the confines of a giant concrete underground shelter in the toxic world, as well as the overpowering need and drive to find out whether there is truth in the faint but forbidden hope that there just may be something better outside. For such a short book, the themes are very well-developed. The narration is great, the pacing and the feeling of suspense well-realized. The ending may be a surprise for some readers or the inevitable conclusion for others, but it is shocking regardless. On to the next installment immediately. The bleak and terrifying world of Wool is somehow addictive, and I want to find out more! ...more Book 1 of the Wool Omnibus. Short at some 49 pages \u2013 and its got my attention. The remnants of mankind live in a giant circular Silo going into the ground \u2013 outside is an uninhabitable waste with toxic corrosive air. We aren\u2019t really told what\u2019s happened. People can view the outside world through a screen that\u2019s fed from four live feed camera\u2019s outside. Problem - the cameras need to be cleaned. Problem - going outside is a death sentence. Solution \u2013 send out condemned criminals to clean the camer Book 1 of the Wool Omnibus. Short at some 49 pages \u2013 and its got my attention. The remnants of mankind live in a giant circular Silo going into the ground \u2013 outside is an uninhabitable waste with toxic corrosive air. We aren\u2019t really told what\u2019s happened. People can view the outside world through a screen that\u2019s fed from four live feed camera\u2019s outside. Problem - the cameras need to be cleaned. Problem - going outside is a death sentence. Solution \u2013 send out condemned criminals to clean the cameras in a suit that will last long enough to get the job done. So straight up I\u2019m like, oh yeah? I know how this goes. Can\u2019t sucker punch this smart cookie. But I was well and truly sucker punched. And what\u2019s more \u2013 Howey used my own scepticism against me to do it. And now I\u2019ve got to get to the next book because I still haven\u2019t wrapped my head around what just happened. Very clever intro \u2013 well clever providing he can answer some of the questions that have my brain in a spin. 5 stars ...more Amazing I'm lost for words... This was good! After Hunger Games and Uglies, I thought I'd never find a good dystopian book (no ladies and gentlemen, Divergent didn't make it up there). Yet I stumbled upon this one (thanks to GR friends of mine that I saw had given good ratings). We saw a dystopian world, a scared terrified crowd, a manipulative goverment and a great an everlasting love. A love I might add that we saw from the end. I mean, it was already there when we started reading, we never saw i Amazing I'm lost for words... This was good! After Hunger Games and Uglies, I thought I'd never find a good dystopian book (no ladies and gentlemen, Divergent didn't make it up there). Yet I stumbled upon this one (thanks to GR friends of mine that I saw had given good ratings). We saw a dystopian world, a scared terrified crowd, a manipulative goverment and a great an everlasting love. A love I might add that we saw from the end. I mean, it was already there when we started reading, we never saw it being born , yet it was not at all less powerful. We were provided with every detail of the emotional state of the MC and the journey that lead him there, all being presented exactly right. The writing was very good and in every step of the way you were taking the path the author wanted you to. Like inception, he planted the idea and you just followed. You never knew more or less than what he wanted you to know. I was carried away actually feeling and thinking whatever he intended for me to feel and think. I applaud! I do have some questions about the world building but it never bothered me while reading the book. Things just were like that, period. Only now, after finishing it do I think of them. Yet I cannot imagine what could be happening in the second book... It's not long, actually like a mini story so read it . I mean it! ...more I want to go out. I want to go out. I wanttogoout. 4.5 stars. Holy _____ . You can choose which word to insert there but you might want to pick something much stronger than cow. Because the word I'm thinking is pretty strong with a lot of caps and exclamation points following it. People (ahhh...yes, the very abstract and almost imaginary use of \"people\") have been telling me to read this short for a while now. I should have been listening sooner. Btw... Wool is a very condensed little read. It I want to go out. I want to go out. I wanttogoout. 4.5 stars. Holy _____ . You can choose which word to insert there but you might want to pick something much stronger than cow. Because the word I'm thinking is pretty strong with a lot of caps and exclamation points following it. People (ahhh...yes, the very abstract and almost imaginary use of \"people\") have been telling me to read this short for a while now. I should have been listening sooner. Btw... Wool is a very condensed little read. It only took me about a half hour to get through the entire thing. It's worth the try (especially if you like dystopia) because there's no risk when something is this short. I'm tempted to jump right into Wool 2 but I can't right now. Imagine being trapped in a silo, the rest of the outside world a complete mystery to you. Information is limited as to what's going on \"out there.\" Your wife went crazy trying to figure it out. You feel like you're going crazy trying to know yourself. Allison whispered something almost inaudible : \"It's not real. Nothing you see is real.\" Holston turned back to survey the muddy, lifeless landscape. It only looked depressing compared to scenes from the children's books. \"You okay?\" Nelson asked. \"Anything too tight?\" Holston glanced around the airlock. My life is too tight, he wanted to say. My skin is too tight. The walls are too tight. The animal part of his mind wasn't made for this, to be calmly ushered to a death it was perfectly aware of. Yep. A lot happened in the span of a few pages. There is so much packed into such a little short. The ending was crazy. I honestly have no idea what's going to come next, so I'm very excited to get to the next installment as soon as possible! ...more Honestly, I don't see what all the hype is about. The book ain't terrible, and it was certainly worth the $0 price tag, but I don't understand how anyone could possibly claim it is at the top or anywhere near the top of the post-apocalyptic genre. Maybe my expectations were set too high going into it; if I'd had the experience of finding a diamond in the rough like the first readers of Wool probably felt themselves to have done, I would be more invested in singing its praises. But as it is the p Honestly, I don't see what all the hype is about. The book ain't terrible, and it was certainly worth the $0 price tag, but I don't understand how anyone could possibly claim it is at the top or anywhere near the top of the post-apocalyptic genre. Maybe my expectations were set too high going into it; if I'd had the experience of finding a diamond in the rough like the first readers of Wool probably felt themselves to have done, I would be more invested in singing its praises. But as it is the popularity of this book is a complete mystery to me. The twist struck me as convoluted and tacked-on. I'll grant that it was somewhat of a surprise (I worked it out before Holston, but not long before), but it just didn't make enough sense to stick with me. A good twist ending should see all the pieces finally falling into place in a way that makes you want to hit yourself for not seeing it all along. This one raised too many questions. Why did the silo society require a view of the outside so desperately if it was such a grim desolate place? Why did they insist that the work of cleaning sensors be done by the banished, when they appeared to have the technology for brief expeditions into the outside world (which without the fake visor images would have only served to further justify their practice of staying in the silo all of the time)? How exactly does the false image of paradise encourage people to clean the sensors? I can imagine that it might have that effect on some people, but it seems really odd that such a ploy would come up in a brain storming session on the issue. Much more effective would be finding some kind of leverage to bring to bear. It wouldn't even have to be a threat: If I was going to be banished into the wasteland either way, I would clean the sensors if I knew, for instance, that my doing so would mean extra rations or improved accommodations for someone I cared about. Better yet-- decriminalize the act of leaving the silo. Make it known that it is likely a death sentence to leave, but make it a decision that can be freely entered into, and which the group will offer support for. Then, when the adventurer is ready to try his luck outside ask whether he would mind doing his community a much needed favor en route. Just a thought. I just can't see how thinking that the silo society is deceiving itself would make a banished person want to clean the sensors. If anything it would seem to have the opposite effect. After all, by cleaning the sensors which display the false wasteland, the banished would be making himself complicit in this deception. If he refused to clean, on the other hand, he would be contributing the eventual black-out of the sensors which might lead people to lose their fear of the outside world and come join him in this paradise. Yup, sorry, I can't get into a series with such a bullshit premise. And don't tell me that this is because it's the first of series. Wool was intended as a standalone so I don't see why I shouldn't evaluate it as such. ...more Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews This is the first \u201cstory\u201d in the Wool Omnibus series that took the world by storm in 2011. At 49 pages long, the tale can be read in a single sitting, and more than likely you will do just that, because you will find yourself immediately getting sucked into this one from the first paragraph. In this post apocalyptic world, a remnant of mankind lives in a giant circular silo. (It is never mentioned whether this is an old nuclear missile silo or not, but h Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews This is the first \u201cstory\u201d in the Wool Omnibus series that took the world by storm in 2011. At 49 pages long, the tale can be read in a single sitting, and more than likely you will do just that, because you will find yourself immediately getting sucked into this one from the first paragraph. In this post apocalyptic world, a remnant of mankind lives in a giant circular silo. (It is never mentioned whether this is an old nuclear missile silo or not, but having spent too many hours watching the television show \u201cDoomsday Preppers\u201d that is how I envisioned this sanctuary.) No one is allowed outside. That is because outside lies quick death by toxic air. Hidden in their small silo, the only view of the outside that these survivors are allowed is a large tv screen fed from several cameras outside. The only problem is that every so often the cameras need to be cleaned. But since no one can go outside and live, it presents somewhat of a dilemma until they come up with a novel solution: send condemned criminals outside to clean the cameras. And Sheriff Holston never questioned this at all until . . . the day his precious wife Allison was sent outside. Ever since, he has wondered if she is really dead? Some part of him longing to believe the outside world is not devastated but habitable. The story of its toxicity just a falsehood to keep them entombed in their concrete and steel coffins. But the only way to be sure is to do the unthinkable: follow her outside! This was one of those stories that lived up to its hype. Hugh Howey penned a clever, inventive story that took a standard post apocalyptic idea and turned it on its head. And I personally loved every minute of it and am looking forward to reading the omnibus soon to see how he can top this little jewel of a tale. ...more 3.5 stars. This short story would make a great episode of The Twilight Zone. Set in a post-apocalyptic and uninhabitable world where the survivors live in an underground missile silo, criminals are sent outside to clean the sensors and cameras so everyone inside can continue to see what's out there. They are also supposedly sent to their deaths due to the toxic air, but no one really knows because they never come back. It's a wonder they actually complete their cleanings before going off over th 3.5 stars. This short story would make a great episode of The Twilight Zone. Set in a post-apocalyptic and uninhabitable world where the survivors live in an underground missile silo, criminals are sent outside to clean the sensors and cameras so everyone inside can continue to see what's out there. They are also supposedly sent to their deaths due to the toxic air, but no one really knows because they never come back. It's a wonder they actually complete their cleanings before going off over the hill, but somehow, they always do. Three years ago, Sheriff Holston's wife dug up some things from deleted computer files that led her to believe that they haven't been told the truth about the outside from their leaders, and expressed the one thing that would immediately evict her from their society - her desire to go outside. So, Sheriff Holston watched her leave and hoped she'd return for him as she promised. But, she didn't, and so Sheriff Holston decides it's time for him to follow her. I won't spoil it for you, but the author certainly keeps you guessing on what happens to him. This short story is well worth it for $.99 on the Kindle! ...more First three installments of this dystopian series are FREE today for Kindle . Fantastic reviews and ratings for this author, sounds like it's worth checking out! Thanks to Michelle for the nudge. :) Have you ever felt guilty about not liking a book? Or is it only me? Or do I have a friend? I will be honest. I had this book for seven, SEVEN months and this is my fifth attempt at reading it. I have had more success and pleasure in watching paint dry. The writing doesn't grip me at all. I get it, I really do. I can see how there would be troves of people who like this book. I wanted to like this book so bad, too. The writing just bored me to tears. For the life of me I couldn't get anywhere and Have you ever felt guilty about not liking a book? Or is it only me? Or do I have a friend? I will be honest. I had this book for seven, SEVEN months and this is my fifth attempt at reading it. I have had more success and pleasure in watching paint dry. The writing doesn't grip me at all. I get it, I really do. I can see how there would be troves of people who like this book. I wanted to like this book so bad, too. The writing just bored me to tears. For the life of me I couldn't get anywhere and I tried so hard. The storyline is right up my alley, but the way the author phrased things made me feel like I am attending an Entmoot. The plot development was so slow it made my eyelids rust... I am giving up. To all those lovely people who wanted to chat about Wool, alas I am sorry to say.... ...more Going into this, I knew this novella was meant to hook the reader into the Wool series. The writing is fine, well edited and clear, but doesn't have the richness or depth to earn 4 or even 3 stars. Two main characters are introduced, Sheriff Holston and his wife. Oftentimes characters are what draws a reader into a series. Time and effort are invested by writer and readers, and, hopefully, attachments are formed enough to carry the story forward. In this case, I haven't that sense of attachment o Going into this, I knew this novella was meant to hook the reader into the Wool series. The writing is fine, well edited and clear, but doesn't have the richness or depth to earn 4 or even 3 stars. Two main characters are introduced, Sheriff Holston and his wife. Oftentimes characters are what draws a reader into a series. Time and effort are invested by writer and readers, and, hopefully, attachments are formed enough to carry the story forward. In this case, I haven't that sense of attachment or wanting to move forward, mainly because (view spoiler) [ at the end, the main characters are both dead (hide spoiler) ] - which can work for a standalone short story, but not a novel series. Again, 3 stars for character development - they were nice enough. So, how about the world building? Generations of people exist in an underground silo. While underground worlds aren't new, they aren't plentiful either, so I was intrigued. World building is challenging, and not as easy as one might think. China Mi\u00e9ville is great at it. George R.R. Martin and Cormac McCarthy both come to mind. The underground world in Wool is less richly drawn. Perhaps the novella format is the limiting factor, but the right vocabulary can pack powerful punches in short order. So, for the world ambiance, Wool was okay -- 2.5 stars. The theme has potential -- ideas about society, government, beliefs. I know the wool is being pulled over the population's eyes, but by whom and for what reason are leads for a good story. When it comes down to it, I found myself simply unmotivated to pursue them. Why? Something was missing. I should be one or more of these: 1) emotionally entangled 2) intellectually curious, or 3) in love with the prose. Because I'm none of the above, I have to rate this 2 stars, which is not a dig, but it was okay, without an exclamation mark. ...more Whoa.... (Imagine that a deeply shocked, whoa...) I had no idea that a short could make me feel like that... How can a book you can read in a 1/2 hour really make you feel such strong emotion? I used to think that reader/character connection comes from page count. I mean, how else are you going to find enough time to really know who they are and connect to them on that certain level? Sometimes it does, depending on what the author is trying to overcome, (See Dan & Vadim ). Well, I've come to re Whoa.... (Imagine that a deeply shocked, whoa...) I had no idea that a short could make me feel like that... How can a book you can read in a 1/2 hour really make you feel such strong emotion? I used to think that reader/character connection comes from page count. I mean, how else are you going to find enough time to really know who they are and connect to them on that certain level? Sometimes it does, depending on what the author is trying to overcome, (See Dan & Vadim ). Well, I've come to realize that other times all it takes is a really great writer. Hugh Howey isn't the only one I've read and liked this much, Jordan Castillo Price is another. These people know how to write a short that still packs a punch. What a story. If it was standalone, I'd still be seriously impressed. It's not, there are sequels. That's even better, because I need to know more. I want to know why! ...more Great little story that I suspect will stick with me for a while. It was hard while reading it not to get too caught up in a guessing game about how things would unfold. The writing style is nicely descriptive and the story itself is engaging and memorable. Highly recommended. Memorability Factor: 9/10 ::::::::::::::::UPDATE::::::::::::::::::::::: This turned out to be one of my favorite reads of 2012. The are currently running an art contest on Facebook for art made by fans, inspired by WOOL. No I Great little story that I suspect will stick with me for a while. It was hard while reading it not to get too caught up in a guessing game about how things would unfold. The writing style is nicely descriptive and the story itself is engaging and memorable. Highly recommended. Memorability Factor: 9/10 ::::::::::::::::UPDATE::::::::::::::::::::::: This turned out to be one of my favorite reads of 2012. The are currently running an art contest on Facebook for art made by fans, inspired by WOOL. No I am not going to be spammy and seek votes, but I thought it would be fun to include the pictures here. If you haven't read this yet, I suggest you get on it already. ...more The absolute best in apocalyptic short stories! Dystopian, post-apocalyptic, horror - take your pick, this little tale covers it all. I would LOVE to see more from this author, and from this scary, scary world! **Edit & update - There IS more! I've picked up WOOL 2, 3, & 4, and Mr. Howey informs me WOOL 5 should be out sometime in February. Go now, my pretties, and pick up tales 1-4. The Genius demands it! Sometimes I weep for the future generations and their concept of literacy. I know, this makes me a grumpy curmudgeon. But I can't help it when I read stuff like this. While poorly written books have always been with us, and some poorly written books have become popular bestsellers, the self-publishing revolution has opened the floodgates to writing like this being praised and rewarded far beyond the ken. People, just because a metaphor is tortured beyond belief, that does not make the writing lit Sometimes I weep for the future generations and their concept of literacy. I know, this makes me a grumpy curmudgeon. But I can't help it when I read stuff like this. While poorly written books have always been with us, and some poorly written books have become popular bestsellers, the self-publishing revolution has opened the floodgates to writing like this being praised and rewarded far beyond the ken. People, just because a metaphor is tortured beyond belief, that does not make the writing literary. Or anywhere close to objectively good. The beginning of WOOL breaks the first commandment of creative writing: Show, don't tell. Instead, we are told...and told...and told...in language that any self-respecting editor would've lopped off at its pretentious, trying too hard knees. The first few pages read like an assignment turned in during the first week of Creative Writing 101. Good writing is crisp, clean, precisely tuned. Lots of flowery metaphors and similes and adverbs and adjectives are not good writing. It's a neophyte's idea of how he should write instead. And it's painful to read. However, once the story actually starts - when Holston locks himself in the cell and asks to see the Mayor - Howey seems to forget trying to impress whatever committees rejected him from MFA writing programs and the prose kicks into high, suspenseful gear. This part of the book earned four stars from me. But alas, that only last so long and before the reader knows it, we're back to word vomit that goes nowhere fast. Not to mention that the world building falls apart with only the slightest poke. (view spoiler) [(For example, if it is so important to clean the cameras, and if they have suits that allow people to finish cleaning the cameras before harm befalls them - then why wait until someone is condemned to death to clean them?!?! That's like not allowing astronauts to spacewalk to make repairs unless the astronaut is condemned to death, and once the repair is finished the astronaut must continue to float away until air runs out. It's...stupid. Also, if they have the technology described in the helmet visors, then why are the pixels failing on the cameras? And my favorite nit - if the only milk comes from pigs, then why is it called pig's milk? We don't call our milk \"cow's milk.\" It's just milk. Period.) (hide spoiler) ] The ending is a reverse that only someone unfamiliar with American pop culture and science fiction tropes over the last fifty years didn't see coming. Hint: if the words \"You maniacs! You blew it up! Goddamn you all to hell!\" \"Soylent Green is people\" or \"Luke, I am your father\" mean nothing to you, then go right ahead and be surprised. So one star for the beginning and end, four stars for the middle, for an average grade of two stars. Only recommended if you have curiosity about self-published works that are hit by the zeitgeist lightning, and you are a fast reader so you don't waste too much time on this slight, over-written and cliched story. ...more This looks like a fantastic beginning to a dystopian Science Fiction ditty that could turn into a saga. I look forward to reading the omnibus edition. The writing is emotive, the plot intriguing, and the characters sympathetic. So far. I have high hopes for unraveling the rest of Hugh Howey's Wool . This is a short book, around 60 pages, and well worth the read if you have an hour to spare. Despite its length, the story was well paced and very well developed. I've read books that are more than four times as long with less going on than WOOL. The book description does a great job summarizing the plot, so all I\u2019ll say on that end is that the plot is quite unique and keeps you guessing until the end. Besides the story, what I liked the best about WOOL was how immediately familiar such a barren This is a short book, around 60 pages, and well worth the read if you have an hour to spare. Despite its length, the story was well paced and very well developed. I've read books that are more than four times as long with less going on than WOOL. The book description does a great job summarizing the plot, so all I\u2019ll say on that end is that the plot is quite unique and keeps you guessing until the end. Besides the story, what I liked the best about WOOL was how immediately familiar such a barren world felt. Living underground is a commonly used theme in post-apocalyptic fiction. However, in WOOL, the author goes one step further to get into the head of the main character and make us feel what he feels: the claustrophobia of living underground, the almost primal urge to feel something real and natural , not man-made. The ending, while I was able to predict what would happen, still came as a shock to the senses. What I will say is that things do not appear as they seem, in more ways than one. For its ingenuity and great storytelling, 4 STARS and highly recommended , especially for people who like post-apocalyptic settings. ...more I read this novella for two reasons. First, Michelle's review and second, because the ebook was offered for free from Amazon. I am so glad for these nudges because the book was a lot of fun. The kind of fun that only a decent post-apoc and creepy dystopian story can deliver. One of my favorite kinds of literary fun. The set up to the story is simple as the novella is only 59 pages. It is told from the point of view of one character - -both in the present time of the story and through brief flash I read this novella for two reasons. First, Michelle's review and second, because the ebook was offered for free from Amazon. I am so glad for these nudges because the book was a lot of fun. The kind of fun that only a decent post-apoc and creepy dystopian story can deliver. One of my favorite kinds of literary fun. The set up to the story is simple as the novella is only 59 pages. It is told from the point of view of one character - -both in the present time of the story and through brief flashbacks to three years earlier. I do not want to give anything away; the story is dystopian (taking place in a very limited society after a post-apoc event) so readers can assume there will be a delightful twist at the end. And there was a twist, actually there were a few of them. This is a quick read due to both its length and the fast pace of the text. If you enjoy this genre, I think you will enjoy this novella. I plan to read #2. ...more Well, I won't be continuing this series after becoming privy to some information I had no knowledge of before. It's really too bad, because this is a series I would have enjoyed. But, at this very moment after reading a certain blog, this is now how I feel: I am not sure where I am in this novel I got it from Netgalley (thank you very much) there are no page numbers but from the index it seems to be the whole omnibus. I've broken down and jumped on the bandwagon, and yes it is brilliantly written. Each sentence is crafted to evoke a specific vision, emotion, and even memory that is embedded in our animal self. We all have the same fears, desires, insecurities, and paranoid thoughts. Somehow Hugh Howey has tapped into all those base elemental DNA, b I am not sure where I am in this novel I got it from Netgalley (thank you very much) there are no page numbers but from the index it seems to be the whole omnibus. I've broken down and jumped on the bandwagon, and yes it is brilliantly written. Each sentence is crafted to evoke a specific vision, emotion, and even memory that is embedded in our animal self. We all have the same fears, desires, insecurities, and paranoid thoughts. Somehow Hugh Howey has tapped into all those base elemental DNA, built-in, animal fight or flight, crap that we are all born with and wrapped it all up into a world that would drive even the most \"mellow dude\" to grab an AK47 and go all \" start the revolution NOW\" ! Do any of you really totally trust your government? Being surrounded on all sides by a poisoned world...( yes it's been done to death 1000 times) would drive me out there to kill myself eventually as well, BUT... it hasn't been done quite like this. I think this would be a stellar TV series if done properly, (Id like to see lots of inner dialogue going on), which would make it very unique, in television. But it would have to have one HELL of a budget. HBO are you paying attention? Howey writes with precision. There is not one wasted word or sentence. Each, is there for a reason, to evoke a response. There are some predictable twists, right off the bat, and then...( ahem) a few that are not. This was an epic to read. Man has ruined his planet and sequestered the survivors of an apocalypse in a silo out in nowheresville. Anyone who breaks the rules is sent out in a \"less than securely sealed\" space suit to scrub the windows, and eventually die in the process. So that all who live in the silo can be reminded how poisonous the planet remains, and how \"fortunate\" they are to be safe in their silo. But what most of the general populous don't know is that they are not alone. There are many silos, just out of view of each other, and all with the same problems. There have been \"cleansing\" uprisings every generation or so, but few remember them so they keep happening, like clockwork. Funny how these \"little internal wars\" happen at just the right time to adjust the population, and rid the silos of the curious IT intelligencia who discover the reason for the uprisings, hidden in the computers memories. This story moves from one educated IT worker, to a husband, to a lowly maintenance worker, to a security officer, throughout several levels in the silos hierarchy, all the way out through the poisonous atmosphere to another silo, and it's inhabitants. This is a tightly woven, intricately detailed interesting look at a very possible future. A way to control a certain number of the population in a vertical space that would be a very small footprint on our planet. It keeps the bad stuff out, or it could keep the bad stuff in. A prison any way you look at it. Terrifying. ...more Most refreshing to find a dystopian tale that is not YA. This one grabbed my attention right away, and I have already purchased the omnibus. Interest officially piqued! 5 Stars What a great start to what I hope is a great series. This very short book one is smaller than most novella's, but it still manages to throw in some background and some world building. I loved the post apocalyptic setup and the state of society. Howey even manages to throw in some cool twists. This review is for the first five of the WOOL series. WOOL is AWESOME on 142 levels. They are so good, one must say as little as one can about them so that you don't ruin it for the new reader. With that, here's my review. The WOOL series of short stories began as a stand alone tale that soon grew to five, well-received short stories that weave a dyspotian tale of human perseverance. Set in the distant future, the world outside is toxic. People live and die beneath the earth in silos. Except for a This review is for the first five of the WOOL series. WOOL is AWESOME on 142 levels. They are so good, one must say as little as one can about them so that you don't ruin it for the new reader. With that, here's my review. The WOOL series of short stories began as a stand alone tale that soon grew to five, well-received short stories that weave a dyspotian tale of human perseverance. Set in the distant future, the world outside is toxic. People live and die beneath the earth in silos. Except for a few whom are tasked with cleaning the exterior monitors, no one goes outside. For to do so is a sure death sentence as nothing can resist the toxic winds that whip a scorched earth. Everyone is not sure why, but when put out to clean, most folks do. Though they have no reason to, they all seem to take the time to clean the monitors, allowing those inside a glimpse of a world they once knew. After cleaning, they inevitably walk a small distance away to die. Their decaying bodies remind all inside what awaits them out there. That is, of course, until one of the cleaners walks away. Set in the near future, the WOOL series is an exploration of humanity and hope as we follow the rise and fall of the inevitable. The story revolves around a mechanical engineer with more sense than luck as she tries to do what is right, the IT head with more on his shoulders than we can imagine, and a whole host of characters than remind us of who we all are. To say more than that would give too much away. I can\u2019t recommend this series enough. The writing is tight, the plot intriguing, and the story of these characters trapped in the underground silos will move you to tears. And hope. ...more I received this book as part of a First Reads give away. In the world Hugh Howey creates, people have been forced into underground silos to survive the destruction that's taken place on the surface. Around the silo there are screens that show the world above - brown, dusty, ruined, colorless and lifeless. The reader is drawn quickly into the silo world as former sheriff Holston climbs the metal steps to his execution. As other readers have noted, the description of the silo is spare. (As a reade I received this book as part of a First Reads give away. In the world Hugh Howey creates, people have been forced into underground silos to survive the destruction that's taken place on the surface. Around the silo there are screens that show the world above - brown, dusty, ruined, colorless and lifeless. The reader is drawn quickly into the silo world as former sheriff Holston climbs the metal steps to his execution. As other readers have noted, the description of the silo is spare. (As a reader, I didn't have trouble creating images of it in my mind. I can see how this world could be developed into a full-blown novel!) For three years, Holston has been grieving the death of his wife, Allison. She chose to say the fateful words \"I want to go outside\" - a death sentence. Anyone who says those words are sent outside to clean the lenses but then are eaten away and suffocated by the toxic air. We learn in a flashback that she'd been investigating historical uprisings (one every generation or so) in the old hard drives and computer files. She's investigating who deleted the files and why. Holston asks her, \"You're saying that someone wiped out our history to stop us from repeating it?\" (pg 21). Both Allison and Holston choose the same fate. The ending of the book literally took my breath away. It also gave me some food for thought - in my opinion, the trait of a story that's more than a story. Themes of the book are hope and insanity. Should people hope for a better world? Should people be kept from wanting an alternative? This story also raises questions about the human spirit. How long can it be repressed without something giving way? The title reminds me of the phrase \"pull the wool over your eyes\" which means \"to deceive someone intentionally.\" This is a short book and it's well worth the time you'd spend reading it! ...more This is a twisted post-apocalyptic world where people live underground in a silo because the surface has somehow been horribly corrupted. Although they have a sheriff and a mayor, the silo is run by a malicious IT department, and the worst thing you can do is ask to go outside. You\u2019ll get your wish. Howey creates an aura of desperation and dread that permeates his writing. You\u2019ll feel the horror of the world and the claustrophobia of the silo, and you\u2019ll want out too. Luckily the characters Howe This is a twisted post-apocalyptic world where people live underground in a silo because the surface has somehow been horribly corrupted. Although they have a sheriff and a mayor, the silo is run by a malicious IT department, and the worst thing you can do is ask to go outside. You\u2019ll get your wish. Howey creates an aura of desperation and dread that permeates his writing. You\u2019ll feel the horror of the world and the claustrophobia of the silo, and you\u2019ll want out too. Luckily the characters Howey developed moved me from desperation to hope. It\u2019s not really a character-driven story, but the characters are good. The book read like different stories being pasted together, although they fit together in an ingenious and suspenseful manner. I guess it started out as short stories, and it still has that feel, but with plenty of twists and suspense. The plot still moved me right along and kept me reading. The weakness for me was the writing itself, and too much internal dialog, going over and over the issues at hand. The characters are alone through long swaths of the book, and so they have long internal dialogs with themselves. I found myself skipping over much of it. I think it could be condensed down to a shorter book and it would be much better. Nonetheless, I recommend it. A fun read. ...more There is something horrifyingly disturbing and breathtakingly efficient about this little story. I know that it is part of a series, an omnibus that in fact also has sequels, but I have chosen to rate part #1 as it is, simply because it is quite complete all by itself. I am struck by a comparison to other recent dystopian-themed books. I have read a few and have been feeling that something is off; it is probably the playful romances that take place in most of them. It detracts from the starkness There is something horrifyingly disturbing and breathtakingly efficient about this little story. I know that it is part of a series, an omnibus that in fact also has sequels, but I have chosen to rate part #1 as it is, simply because it is quite complete all by itself. I am struck by a comparison to other recent dystopian-themed books. I have read a few and have been feeling that something is off; it is probably the playful romances that take place in most of them. It detracts from the starkness that is true dystopia. This author does not resort to whimsy or distraction for this tale; the story is focused, and the author uses words efficiently to create the context and the emotional/mental impact. At the same time they tell the story with poetry and loving care. It reminds me of the great science fiction stories I read in my childhood. I will inevitably read more in this series. But there is a danger, and that is that this piece was done so well, and to such effect, the next chapters may actually serve only to dilute or disappoint. Highly recommended. ...more Read it in 42 minutes, and that number tells. 42. Really nicely realized. The human touch, that's what matters. And for a change, I have no silly limericks, just praise. Double-double plot twists, a fine dose of despair. Right and proper storytelling. Igor Wool seems like a strange title for this book. Suspenseful and thought-provoking at it's best, confusing and boring at it's worst. I can see how it was a hit as a short story. If you ask me (which you didn\u2019t, but I'll answer your hypothetical question anyway), kindle publishing has been a wonderful thing for both authors and readers. Kindle publishing maybe hasn't been so good for established publishing houses but, well, screw them , right? Kindle publishing also has been a mixed bag of tricks, especially from the reader's perspective. I think most of you would readily acknowledge that kindle has allowed some really talented people, with some really good stories to tell If you ask me (which you didn\u2019t, but I'll answer your hypothetical question anyway), kindle publishing has been a wonderful thing for both authors and readers. Kindle publishing maybe hasn't been so good for established publishing houses but, well, screw them , right? Kindle publishing also has been a mixed bag of tricks, especially from the reader's perspective. I think most of you would readily acknowledge that kindle has allowed some really talented people, with some really good stories to tell, and who otherwise would have been shut out by the publishing megalopoly, to find their voices and find a willing audience to read their works. Kindle has allowed readers like you and me to find new, sometimes quite unique and well written stories to read, stories we otherwise never would have been allowed to see. At the same time, however, a lot of shit gets self-published on kindle. Sure, some talented authors got shut out by \"The Establishment\" because of lack of name recognition, lack of contacts, lack of willingness to take risks, or just plain laziness or whathaveyou. But sometimes The Establishment refused to publish things because they were pure, unadulterated, shit. Wool , by Hugh Howey, decidedly is NOT shit. Well paced, nonlinear, disturbing, twisted (as in plot-twisted), and superbly written, Wool punched me right in the gut, then gave me a hook across the jaw while I was still out of breath. Holy fuck that felt good. If you, like me at first, don't want to read this little novella because of its name or cover or unfamiliarity with the author or you are just thinking \"oh, great, another piece of self-published kindle shit \" \u2026 you're making a huge fucking mistake. ...more<---C>Hugh Howey</---C>", "Title": "Wool"},
