{"Comments": "Ok, now I get it! And by \"it\" I mean all the Hiaasen hoopla among those with whom I share a certain brand of humor \u2013 an \"it\" that baffled me after my first encounter with Carl via Bad Monkey . We're back in Florida, where even the craziest of characters are plausible probable. Since I'm not exactly trailblazing new territory here in book review land, I'll just give you some quick picks from the cast of <+++>Skinny Dip</+++> which may or may not overlap with everyone's favorite super secret spy agency (d Ok, now I get it! And by \"it\" I mean all the Hiaasen hoopla among those with whom I share a certain brand of humor \u2013 an \"it\" that baffled me after my first encounter with Carl via Bad Monkey . We're back in Florida, where even the craziest of characters are plausible probable. Since I'm not exactly trailblazing new territory here in book review land, I'll just give you some quick picks from the cast of <+++>Skinny Dip</+++> which may or may not overlap with everyone's favorite super secret spy agency (damn you terrorists for taking its name!): Open scene with Joey Perrone tossed off a cruise ship and into the drink by her husband Chaz (who is selfish even by Sterling Archer standards). But for his lack of ethical scruples, Chaz Perrone is ill-suited for his job as a biostitute (a clever portmanteau of biologist and prostitute). He's more than happy to fake results for his boss whose farming operations pollute the fragile ecosystem, but, he's not exactly outdoorsy. Welcome to the Everglades,<---M> where everything either wants to eat you</---M>, or give you malaria. Assorted other tie-ins? Dumb muscle bodyguard (and one of the funniest characters). We've also got the little old lady who breaks through even the toughest of fa\u00e7ades.<---F> Good times, good times</---F>. ...more Joey Perrone is pissed--and she has every right to be. On their second wedding anniversary, her husband, Chaz, surprises her by booking a romantic Carnival-style cruise. He surprises her again by getting her drunk, throwing her overboard in the middle of the night, and leaving her as shark bait. What Chaz doesn't know is that Joey survives by clinging to a wayward bale of Jamaican weed. She's found, exhausted and a little worse for wear, by Mick Stranahan, a recluse who lives on a private island Joey Perrone is pissed--and she has every right to be. On their second wedding anniversary, her husband, Chaz, surprises her by booking a romantic Carnival-style cruise. He surprises her again by getting her drunk, throwing her overboard in the middle of the night, and leaving her as shark bait. What Chaz doesn't know is that Joey survives by clinging to a wayward bale of Jamaican weed. She's found, exhausted and a little worse for wear, by Mick Stranahan, a recluse who lives on a private island and shuns the mainland after being forced into early retirement from the police force after killing a politically well-connected criminal. If fate dealt Joey a cruel blow that night on the cruise ship, it's certainly making up for it by creating the perfect situation in which to exact revenge on her philandering and murderous husband. What follows is a bizarre, tangled, and amusing revenge scheme that reveals just what a lowlife Chaz Perrone really is. <---A>Carl Hiaasen</---A> books are quick, funny reads with a soul. Skinny Dip is full of quirky characters (such as Tool, the bodyguard with a bullet lodged in the crack of his ass and a penchant for collecting roadside crosses; Red Hammernut, the Yosemite Sam like billionaire making big profit off of thwarting EPA rules; Ricca, Chaz's mistress who has, shall we say, some peculiar artistic tendencies when it comes to personal grooming), implausible plot lines, and witty dialogue. However, for all of the absurdity, there is an underlying environmental message about the Everglades and how big money and political influence can circumvent the very agencies who are trying to do right by our planet. The message is never preachy; Hiaasen simply uses the characters and the plot to point out how corporate corruption is going on beneath our very noses and how industrial farming's mismanagement of natural resources is making itself felt in our water supply, our land, and in the animals who inhabit the very ecosystems we're destroying. However, if you're not looking for an environmental message, that's cool--still consider giving Hiaasen a try. There are plenty of zany capers, madcap adventures, and fun to be had. Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more It was boggling to realize that an elevated ribbon of dirt was essentially all that separated 5 million raucous, distracted human beings from the prehistoric solitude of the Everglades. The detective regretted that during his hitch in South Florida he hadn't spent more time on the other side of the levee; the sane and peaceful side. Carl Hiaasen take us for a rollercoaster ride through the insane and troublesome side of the levee. A place where husbands throw their wives overboard during the cr It was boggling to realize that an elevated ribbon of dirt was essentially all that separated 5 million raucous, distracted human beings from the prehistoric solitude of the Everglades. The detective regretted that during his hitch in South Florida he hadn't spent more time on the other side of the levee; the sane and peaceful side. Carl Hiaasen take us for a rollercoaster ride through the insane and troublesome side of the levee. A place where husbands throw their wives overboard during the cruise for their second wedding anniversary. A place where corrupt industrial farmers bribe fake scientists to falsify water pollution reports so they can continue to destroy the Everglades National Park. A place where migrant workers are slaving away under the supervision of brutal and illiterate hitmen. A place where police officers keep large pythons as pets in their apartments and paid killers collect memorial crosses from the side of the road. I have read and enjoyed the novels of Carl Hiaasen before, and Skinny Dip is one of his better efforts. His signature touches are wacky characters, complicated plots where inept criminals are brought down by their own stupidity, hilarious dialogue and, most importantly, a genuine love for the natural environment of Florida that is getting systematically destroyed under the demnads of business. The last part and the talent for creating memorable characters is why I rate Hiaasen above the run-of-the-mill crime novelist. He is entertaining, but there is always an engagement with the issues of corruption in politics and habitat protection. It will be difficult to make a short resume of the plot of Skinny Dip, but I would say that people who liked the movie Overboard with Kurt Russell and Goldie Hawn are probably going to enjoy another comedy about a rich, hot babe falling into the ocean from a pleasure ship. Instead of being amnesiac, Joey Perrone is well aware that her husband is the one who deliberately pushed her overboard. Being a skilled swimmer, and with a bit of luck in the shape of a bale of marijuana drifting in the Gulf Stream, she survives and sets out to exact revenge on her dearly beloved creep of a husband, Chaz Perrone. Joey is helped along by a reclusive former State attorney who prefers the isolation of a small private island to the bustle of civilization, by a sexy member of her Book Club, by a brother who enjoys life among sheep in New Zealand. Chaz the scoundrel is already chasing other skirts, mostly a fiery Latino hairdresser named Ricca, but, thanks to his supposedly deceased wife hauntings, he has developed, for the first time in his life, erectile disfunctions, and has extra troubles with the industrial tycoon sponsoring his illegal activities and with his assigned bodyguard, a hairy and slow witted killer for hire named Tool. The novel alternates between the points of view of the wife and of the husband, with a third thread dealing with the police investigation into the accident / suicide / murder of Joey. Skinny Dip is a stand-alone among the novels written by Carl Hiaasen, but fans of the author will recognize some recurring personages, among them Skink, the one-eyed giant wearing a shower cap and living off the land in the middle of the swamp, as usual saving damzels in distress and dealing cruel and unusual punishment to environmental criminals. Comedy is ensured by dialogue filled with sexual innuendo and sarcastic commentaries on married life, politics, pollution, violence. Then there's the pland going awry, the misunderstandings, the physical and even gross out humour, but mostly it is the crashing of opposing personalities that produce the sparks. I'm also enjoying the fact that there isn't a clear cut demarcation line between the good guys and the bad guys, with Joey acting outside the law in order to punish her husband and with the gorilla Tool reexamining his life choices when he becomes friends with a terminally ill woman (my favorite passage from the novel): I believe it's never too late to change. I'm eighty-one years old, but I still think I can be a better person tomorrow than I am today. And that's what I'll believe until I run out of tomorrows. I will be checking more of the Florida crime books by Hiaasen, as well as the rival series written by Tim Dorsey. It's difficult to pick a favorite between them: both are dealing with the environment and with the criminal underworld of the Sunshine State. I would say the psychopat Serge Storms is more volatile and vicious than Skink et Co., but Hiaasen has the better plots and the more nuanced characterization. ...more Carl Hiaasen is right at home in that collective of modern, witty crime fiction writers who are neither Dashiell Hammett nor Raymond Chandler and hope against that you won't attempt the comparison. That he's good, there's no doubt. It's just: he's not genius. And that's fine. Not everyone can abide in stellar heights, unreachable and ever-gunned-for. Skinny Dip was a perfectly enjoyable ode to revenge. All the bad people got what was coming to them and none of the good people ever fell prey to th Carl Hiaasen is right at home in that collective of modern, witty crime fiction writers who are neither Dashiell Hammett nor Raymond Chandler and hope against that you won't attempt the comparison. That he's good, there's no doubt. It's just: he's not genius. And that's fine. Not everyone can abide in stellar heights, unreachable and ever-gunned-for. Skinny Dip was a perfectly enjoyable ode to revenge. All the bad people got what was coming to them and none of the good people ever fell prey to their various bumblings and inadequacies. I devoured the last half of the tale in a single sitting, staying up late enough in bed reading that my performance at the office the next day may have been diminished. It's just... I've read the greats. And so I think that subconsciously I'm always left thinking, Wow, that was fun... but *sigh* it was no The Long Goodbye . I know it's probably not fair to Hiasaan, but it's kind of like reading most any fantasy epic after having read The Lord of the Rings . You end up feeling kind of hollow. No hard feelings, Carl? You're still as good as Elmore Leonard ! ...more Loved this! So I read this on Jeff's recommendation. See, he wrote a review for another book by this guy called Tourist Season . And in his review he had the nerve to call people from Florida ' loopy '. Well, I grew up in that lovely state, and I'm normal...right? Hmmm. It got me thinking. So I asked one of my friends. The conversation went like this: Me: You don't think I'm weird because I'm from Florida, do you? Them: Remember last summer? Me: Yeah? Them: Remember when you killed that snake? Me: The copper Loved this! So I read this on Jeff's recommendation. See, he wrote a review for another book by this guy called Tourist Season . And in his review he had the nerve to call people from Florida ' loopy '. Well, I grew up in that lovely state, and I'm normal...right? Hmmm. It got me thinking. So I asked one of my friends. The conversation went like this: Me: You don't think I'm weird because I'm from Florida, do you? Them: Remember last summer? Me: Yeah? Them: Remember when you killed that snake? Me: The copperhead? Yeah, so? Them: I've just never seen anybody chop off a snake's head with kitchen shears before... Me: Oh. Well, my mom always used to keep a machete by the front door, but my husband put ours in the upstairs closet somewhere. Ha! I remember this time when a moccasin got in our house, and she pinned it to the couch with that machete and then cut it's head off with a steak knife! wipes a tear Good times... Them: Um. Seriously? Me: Well, it's not like she could shoot it! Them: A machete?! Why do you have a machete?! Me: Are you seriously saying you don't have a machete? Them: .... I think you've answered your own original question. So. Maybe there are a few things I do differently . And maybe it comes from being raised in the Sunshine State. Who can really say? Anyhoo. This book was so much fun to read! You can definitely tell the author is from Florida, because he describes it perfectly. I was so homesick by the time I got done, I couldn't stand it. I can almost taste the humidity just thinking about it! sigh Joey and Chaz go on a cruise for their 2 year wedding anniversary. Which is so romantic! Except Chaz is a douche. And he shoves his wife overboard. Why? Well, you really need to read the book to find that out, and I'm not going to spoil it. But let's just say that he's incredibly stupid. And unlucky. Because Joey doesn't drown or get eaten by sharks. Nope, Joey floats to safety on a bail of pot, and then gets fished out of the water by Mick. Of course, hanging on to a bail of weed in the middle of the ocean gives a girl a lot of time to think about her questionable choice in men. It also gives a girl a lot of time to get pissed off. So, while going to the police might be the sane thing to do... Doesn't revenge sound so much better? I lovedlovedloved all of the characters in Skinny Dip, but Tool was probably my favorite. He's horrible, disgusting, and awesome all rolled into one. Read the book for Tool's sake, if nothing else! I don't normally read books like this one, but I'm glad I stepped out of my box for a few days. Thank you, Jeff! ...more This is a favorite author of mine. He has the very best of characters. Bizarre, misdirected, lost, but always fun. I was out looking for a short term relationship, a book \u201cwith benefits\u201d, a quick encounter with no long term demands, just a few hours of pleasure. I met \u201cSkinny Dip\u201d in the Goodreads \u201cbar\u201d and who wouldn\u2019t be attracted to a cover with a suggestively unclothed blond beauty in the water. I asked her out from the library for a brief fling. I wasn\u2019t disappointed that\u2019s for sure. Written by some guy I had never heard of, it had good reviews. I checked and made sure it wasn\u2019t part of some 15-part nov I was out looking for a short term relationship, a book \u201cwith benefits\u201d, a quick encounter with no long term demands, just a few hours of pleasure. I met \u201cSkinny Dip\u201d in the Goodreads \u201cbar\u201d and who wouldn\u2019t be attracted to a cover with a suggestively unclothed blond beauty in the water. I asked her out from the library for a brief fling. I wasn\u2019t disappointed that\u2019s for sure. Written by some guy I had never heard of, it had good reviews. I checked and made sure it wasn\u2019t part of some 15-part novel series. I just didn\u2019t need to be adding more books to my TBR shelf. Skinny Dip lived up to its\u2019 billing, the pages going down like chips and salsa on a football afternoon. The characters dreamed up by Mr. Carl Hiaasen are just so good. Mr. Big is named Red Hammernut, his enforcer is Mr. Tool and the scientist working for Red is a real Darwin award winner. Dr. Chaz Perrone is, well, think of the Bill Pullman character (Earl Mott) in Ruthless People\u2026yeah he is that dumb in some areas. Hiassen isn\u2019t laugh-out-loud funny except in a few places but I have to go with a 5 Star rating, just based on the amount of time I had a grin on. His main story is about the wife, Joey Perrone, who is thrown off her anniversary cruise ship by her dimwit husband. She survives by hanging onto a bale of Jamaican dope floating in the Gulf Stream and is rescued by Mick Stranahan, a retired investigator living on an island off Miami. The rest of the novel is about her effort to find out why her husband wanted to kill her and to take her revenge. Hiassen moves the story along nicely and the revenge is so sweet, you will be chuckling. Here are some nuggets for you purview: As Red Hammernut listened to Chaz Perrone\u2019s story, he thought of the many blessings that had come his way, but also of the toil. A big farming operation like his was a challenging enterprise, relying as it did on rampant pollution and the systematic mistreatment of immigrant labor. For Red it was no small feat to keep the Feds off his back while at the same time soaking taxpayers for lucrative crop subsidies and dirt-cheap loans that might or might not be repaid this century. He reflected upon the hundreds of thousands of dollars that he\u2019d handed out as campaign donations; the untallied thousands more for straight up bribes, hookers, private-yacht charters, gambling stakes and other discreet favors; and, finally, the countless hours of ass-kissing he\u2019d been forced to endure with the same knucklehead politicians whose loyalties he had purchased. This was no easy gig. Red Hammernut got infuriated every time he heard some pissy liberal refer to the federal farm bill as corporate welfare. The term implied contented idleness, and nobody worker harder that Red to keep the money flowing and stay out of trouble. Now the whole goddam shebang was in danger of falling apart because of one man. While Mick is waiting to meet up with the hairdresser girlfriend of the good doctor, he visits the salon: Taking cover behind a magazine, Stranahan attempted to immerse himself in the travails of Eminem, a deep though conflicted young man. Apparently wealth, fame and unlimited sex are nice, but true spiritual happiness must come from within. While Hiassen doles out the humor, he also puts some thoughtful pieces in. Mr. Tool\u2019s evolution is priceless and he throws in some serious Everglades conservation ideas while still being fun. The only problem is I am adding a bunch of Carl Hiassen\u2019s novels to my TBR as he is just damn funny and, what the heck, I\u2019m always up for chips and salsa. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars Joey Perrone would have never guessed her husband would toss her overboard during their anniversary cruise. Mick Stranahan would have never guessed he\u2019d pull a naked woman off a floating bale of marijuana while fishing. After their bizarre chance encounter, Joey and Mick team up to find out why Joey\u2019s philandering husband would choose to kill her rather than ask for a divorce and to get some payback in the process. Like all of Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ 3.5 Stars Joey Perrone would have never guessed her husband would toss her overboard during their anniversary cruise. Mick Stranahan would have never guessed he\u2019d pull a naked woman off a floating bale of marijuana while fishing. After their bizarre chance encounter, Joey and Mick team up to find out why Joey\u2019s philandering husband would choose to kill her rather than ask for a divorce and to get some payback in the process. Like all of Hiassen\u2019s books, Skinny Dip takes place in the Sunshine State and is filled with an abundance of bizarre characters and multiple plotlines. I\u2019ve seen a lot of reviewers say that Hiassen is obviously a woman hater. Since I haven\u2019t seen him broadcast any disgusting opinions in interviews (*cough* Orson Scott Card *cough*), I have no idea if that is true. I do know that his female characters tend to be one-dimensional, but normally I don\u2019t really give a poo. Hiassen is a man\u2019s man and writes books that dudes would want to read. Unfortunately in Skinny Dip one of the leads is a woman. A woman who should have been a lot more awesome than she was. Luckily, he casts his books with eleventy billion other characters to pick up the slack. While not even remotely as brilliant as Bad Monkey , Skinny Dip was still a fun read. ...more This is the seventh Hiaasen book I\u2019ve read. While he\u2019s never going to be my favourite author, I really enjoyed the first six. This seventh outing, however, didn\u2019t have the same appeal. In fact, every time I stopped reading this book it was because I\u2019d fallen asleep! It\u2019s definitely not a good sign that a comedy/thriller has me dropping off so frequently while reading it. I think part of the problem was that the plot didn\u2019t cope with being stretched out so much. If this book had been about two thi This is the seventh Hiaasen book I\u2019ve read. While he\u2019s never going to be my favourite author, I really enjoyed the first six. This seventh outing, however, didn\u2019t have the same appeal. In fact, every time I stopped reading this book it was because I\u2019d fallen asleep! It\u2019s definitely not a good sign that a comedy/thriller has me dropping off so frequently while reading it. I think part of the problem was that the plot didn\u2019t cope with being stretched out so much. If this book had been about two thirds the length it would have been a lot better. There were points where I was wishing they\u2019d just get on with it! Also, apart from Mick Stranahan, virtually all the characters irritated me to some degree. With the female characters, it was mainly that they were barely two-dimensional and almost completely vacuous. I\u2019m pretty sure a couple of the supporting characters were extraneous and could either have been cut out completely or had their parts performed by one of the other characters. Don\u2019t get me wrong; I did enjoy this book (hence three stars and not two) and its weaknesses certainly won\u2019t put me off reading more Hiaasen in the future but it was definitely my least favourite of all his books I\u2019ve read so far. I much preferred \u2018Skin Tight\u2019, the first book to feature Stranahan. Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray. ...more Carl Hiaasen is a funny author. He creates a lot of compelling and funny characters. That said, why are his female characters (especially the lead here) underdeveloped and boring. When you have tertiary characters (Tool, Red, the Captain) that are far more interesting than your main character, you have to wonder about the author's ability to flesh out the women in his books. I have the same complaint about the only other book of his (Lucky You) that I've read. Still, an amusing book - well-plotte Carl Hiaasen is a funny author. He creates a lot of compelling and funny characters. That said, why are his female characters (especially the lead here) underdeveloped and boring. When you have tertiary characters (Tool, Red, the Captain) that are far more interesting than your main character, you have to wonder about the author's ability to flesh out the women in his books. I have the same complaint about the only other book of his (Lucky You) that I've read. Still, an amusing book - well-plotted and entertaining. ...more Carl Hiaasen's 'Skinny Dip' is the usual hilarious and bittersweet Hiaasen plot about fantastic and ridiculous criminals working legally under Florida's lax and corrupt government's environmental laws and victims who decide vigilantism will work better than Florida's legal system (not exactly untrue, is it?). As the book begins, beautiful and rich Joey Perrone is being murdered by her husband of two years, Chaz. Chaz is a Florida State biologist whose job normally involves measuring agricultural Carl Hiaasen's 'Skinny Dip' is the usual hilarious and bittersweet Hiaasen plot about fantastic and ridiculous criminals working legally under Florida's lax and corrupt government's environmental laws and victims who decide vigilantism will work better than Florida's legal system (not exactly untrue, is it?). As the book begins, beautiful and rich Joey Perrone is being murdered by her husband of two years, Chaz. Chaz is a Florida State biologist whose job normally involves measuring agricultural pollutants in the Everglades. But on this balmy Florida night, while the couple is on a luxury boat cruise celebrating their wedding anniversary, Chaz has inexplicably pushed his wife over the railing down into the ocean. Joey is thankful she was co-captain of her college swim team. She is determined to find out why her husband wants her dead, so she stubbornly starts the miles-long paddle to shore. Mick Stranahan, the retired police officer from the previous novel in the series, Skin Tight , has moved to a small Florida island as caretaker for its absentee owner. He loves the isolation and the beauty of the ocean. One of the perks of the job is being able to fish for dinner whenever he likes. However, this time he has caught a naked lady floating on a bale of pot. It looks like his idyllic days of quiet and sun will be temporarily over - for about 400 fun pages! Skink puts in a short appearance as well, gentle reader, from the ongoing Skink series. I should mention Hiaasen's plots are developed from actual headlines and scandals which have come to the attention of federal and other agencies and individuals who actually are trying to make Florida accountable for its still ongoing rape of the Everglades, as well as exposing Florida's irritation at the presence of any animal and ocean wildlife. Although the various businesses and elected government officials involved in Florida's environmental destruction have been written about openly in the news for almost a century or two, nothing has slowed down the extraction of Florida's natural resources and the poisoning of what is still left of its flora and fauna. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Envir... As Florida politicians add more and more written speeches about saving the Everglades to the stacks of speeches already given through the decades of human 'stewardship and care', real scientists have measured how much of the Everglades still remains from its original size - 10% - with the result of many animal populations having disappeared or crashed. But the planing off of the natural surface of Florida to replace it with cement and farms is not the only problem Florida has right now. Sinkholes are breaking up the infrastructure of Florida neighborhoods, and the poisoning of fresh water sources are popping up everywhere. These problems are linked to rising levels of salty ocean waters invading the low-lying lands of Florida. A sinkhole map of Florida: http://championfoundation.com/interac... However, the issues of no fresh water and homes disappearing into black holes opening up in the ground has not stopped people from continuing to pave over Florida for fun and profit: http://www.scientificamerican.com/art... http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2015/1... A sample quote from The Vanity Fair Magazine article by David Kamp: \"For all the sober talk about grave and ongoing environmental challenges, it is apt that Miami Beach has a self-styled Bloombergian mayor. For, curiously, at the very same time that some climate scientists are questioning whether the city will even survive into the next century, Miami Beach is going through an economic and building boom that evokes nothing so much as Bloomberg-era New York at its most sparkly and flash. In the last 12 months alone, the city has added more than 2,000 hotel rooms, many of them under impressive imprimaturs. Tommy Hilfiger is refurbishing the historic Raleigh hotel, and Ian Schrager has given the 50s-era Seville Beach Hotel a luxury redesign and a new name, Edition Miami Beach. And though the city doesn\u2019t boast a feat of urban design as ingenious as New York City\u2019s High Line, it can lay claim to what has become, since its completion in 2010, the world\u2019s most architecturally celebrated parking garage, 1111 Lincoln Road, a house-of-cards-like structure by the Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron that has become an international tourist attraction in its own right.\" But wait! There is more! 'Dead' spots in the ocean, particularly all around Florida beaches! http://news.nationalgeographic.com/ne... http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science... In my humble opinion, I think America is going to have a homegrown refugee problem within a century. Big Government or small, there won't be much help from any government around the world, much less for Florida. ...more How to categorize this book? It\u2019s not a mystery \u2013 although it starts with a murder. It\u2019s not a police procedural, although a policeman is trying to make the case against the murderer throughout the book. It\u2019s not a romance, although it ends with a \u2018happily-ever-after\u2019. It\u2019s not a comedy, although absurdities pile up on the pages. I\u2019d call it a farce with environmental flavor. In the beginning, the antagonist, biologist Chaz Perrone, pitches his wife Joey overboard from a cruise ship. He is happy How to categorize this book? It\u2019s not a mystery \u2013 although it starts with a murder. It\u2019s not a police procedural, although a policeman is trying to make the case against the murderer throughout the book. It\u2019s not a romance, although it ends with a \u2018happily-ever-after\u2019. It\u2019s not a comedy, although absurdities pile up on the pages. I\u2019d call it a farce with environmental flavor. In the beginning, the antagonist, biologist Chaz Perrone, pitches his wife Joey overboard from a cruise ship. He is happy with the deed done well, but unfortunately for him, Joey survives. The rest of the book is dedicated to Joey taking revenge on her inept murderer of a husband. She is also trying to figure out why he decided to murder her. The plot line is preposterous to the point of crazy, but the value of this novel doesn\u2019t reside in the plot, it is in the characters. They are diverse and colorful, especially the bad ones. The antagonist Chaz is a tangle of contradictions. One moment, he is a sleek confident liar, the next \u2013 a slimy, soulless prick, cowardly but sly. Everyone holds him in contempt, his \u2018friends\u2019 and enemies alike, but somehow, his overworking sense of self-preservation always helps him to end up on top, not exactly winning but not really losing either, just biding his time. Pathetic as a villain, he is nonetheless frightening in his sordid venality \u2013 and for the lowest possible price. This self-admiring worm is the best-defined character in the novel, the focal point of the action. Every twist of the plot revolves around him. Chaz\u2019s partners in crime include his employer Red, a corrupt and ruthless owner of vegetable farms, and Red\u2019s goon Tool, a hirsute ape of a man, whose conscience is stirring unexpectedly. On the positive side, there is a Norwegian detective Rolvaag, superbly honest and tenacious like a bulldog but slightly eccentric: he keeps pythons as pets. A loner Mike is also one of the good guys. A former policeman and Joey\u2019s savior, he is the one who fished her out of the sea. He helps her with her vengeance scheme and generally plays the role of a knight in tarnished armor. And then there is Joey. She should be the protagonist, she almost got killed in the beginning of the story, but she is somewhat fuzzy as a character. Actually, all the female characters are fuzzy in this novel, as opposed to the male characters, each one with his sharply defined personality and quirky history. The story is unevenly paced, sometimes galloping, sometimes crawling. Too many back stories slow down the action, and I wondered why the author included them. They are not really relevant to the proceedings. They are funny though, but for some reason, I didn\u2019t laugh, not even once. I suspect a screwball comedy isn\u2019t for me, although the juxtaposition of a petty criminal and the huge evil of his crime \u2013 murder, even unsuccessful \u2013 felt intriguing. I definitely wanted to know the resolution of this cat\u2019s cradle of lies and subplots. The setting, Everglades, Florida, plays a major role in this book. The author obviously loves its endless marches and abundant wildlife, and the entire book reads as a tribute to Everglades. Overall \u2013 a ridiculous but absorbing read. I enjoyed it. ...more This book was recommended as great light, pulpy reading by two of the people I love and respect most in this world. And it is with all respect to those two people that I say here, I just don't get it. The first chapter was good enough to grab my attention, but by the time I was 1/3 the way through I just kept thinking it's got to get better , its got to get better. Turns out, the third act just gets worse. I mean I know its supposed to be pulpy, but the dialogue in this book reminded me of a Mic This book was recommended as great light, pulpy reading by two of the people I love and respect most in this world. And it is with all respect to those two people that I say here, I just don't get it. The first chapter was good enough to grab my attention, but by the time I was 1/3 the way through I just kept thinking it's got to get better , its got to get better. Turns out, the third act just gets worse. I mean I know its supposed to be pulpy, but the dialogue in this book reminded me of a Michael Bay screenplay. People don't talk like this. They just don't. It also didn't help that I didn't find many of the characters sympathetic. If Joey is the cream of the crop, this is one sorry lot. And the end was so perplexing. I mean he managed to tie up all the plot points in as contrived a way as possible, while at the same time completely managing to miss anything that resembles a satisfying ending. Maybe I'm just not cut out for pulp. Excuse me, I need to go find some Sylvia Plath to cleanse with. ...more I picked this up at a used bookstore because I had seen it several times before and it looked somewhat amusing. And that's about all it was: somewhat amusing. The main characters are hollow and stereotypical, and the plot, for all its twists and turns, is fairly predictable. (I did like Ricca, the Woman On The Side... she was the only character whose manner and speech were both realistic and funny throughout.) The worst part about this book is the writing style: repetitious and unimaginitive, Hi I picked this up at a used bookstore because I had seen it several times before and it looked somewhat amusing. And that's about all it was: somewhat amusing. The main characters are hollow and stereotypical, and the plot, for all its twists and turns, is fairly predictable. (I did like Ricca, the Woman On The Side... she was the only character whose manner and speech were both realistic and funny throughout.) The worst part about this book is the writing style: repetitious and unimaginitive, Hiaasen spells out every single detail, and in doing so ruins some of his cleverly imagined situations. I found myself more intrigued by how the author would tie up the ba-zillion loose ends (answer: in a dull scene with the dullest character, Detective Rovlaag, and a seperate scene that should have been a lot funnier than it was) than by what actually happened to the characters. ...more Carl Hiaasen's books are, hands down, the best Florida postcards in the market. Let me explain: I take it every bastard out there knows what sunny Florida is all about: gators, tan, beaches, girls in bikini, huge fuck-off yachts with girls in bikini, flashy cars with girls in bikini, Hulk Hogan in bikini, more girls in bikini surrounding Hulk Hogan in bikini, and all that. Also, bikini shops with girls in bikini shopping for more bikinis. At least that's what \"Miami Vice\" has taught me. That sai Carl Hiaasen's books are, hands down, the best Florida postcards in the market. Let me explain: I take it every bastard out there knows what sunny Florida is all about: gators, tan, beaches, girls in bikini, huge fuck-off yachts with girls in bikini, flashy cars with girls in bikini, Hulk Hogan in bikini, more girls in bikini surrounding Hulk Hogan in bikini, and all that. Also, bikini shops with girls in bikini shopping for more bikinis. At least that's what \"Miami Vice\" has taught me. That said, Carl Hiaasen writes about Floridians, apparently some of the most... er... \"colourful\" people you may meet on Earth. And I mean that in a good way. Now, wait a minute, there was something else I wanted to say about the novel but, given it's kind of late, I have forgotten all about it. Kind of pisses me off, y'know. I was like, \"Oh, I'm going to write this and that. Aye! Everybody will think I'm witty. Go me!\" but now I'm sitting here, calling the screen all the known names on earth. Alzheimer maybe. And Tourette. So anyway, \"Skinny Dip\" is a fun book. It's about some idiot who wants to kill his wife but fails miserably; then he tries to kill another two people but, being an absolute dim witted moron bastard, fails again. By the way, I've never been to Florida. But I want to go. Floridians in Carl Hiaasen's books are badass. ...more Skinny Dip is character and dialog driven fiction. The plot is original and well constructed, but it's the characters that make you want to keep reading. There's a chronically inept biologist, his remarkably resilient wife, a morally bankrupt Florida agri-mogul, and his dim-witted minion. Hiaasen weaves sparse narrative with crisp dialog to keep the story moving along. This is not life changing, morally uplifting fiction we're talking about here. The book is simply fun, easy reading. I found myse Skinny Dip is character and dialog driven fiction. The plot is original and well constructed, but it's the characters that make you want to keep reading. There's a chronically inept biologist, his remarkably resilient wife, a morally bankrupt Florida agri-mogul, and his dim-witted minion. Hiaasen weaves sparse narrative with crisp dialog to keep the story moving along. This is not life changing, morally uplifting fiction we're talking about here. The book is simply fun, easy reading. I found myself biting my lip to avoid waking my wife with laughter. Fans of Elmore Leonard will recognize and appreciate the style of entertaining, well written crime fiction. I'm not ready to put Hiassen up on the throne with Leonard, but he's close. I liked Skinny Dip well enough to go back to the store for two more of Hiaasen's novels. ...more I do love to junk out on Carl Hiaasen - his characters are the best of the best as far as endearing-bizarre-flaky. A failed attempt at killing his wife leads a fantastically sleazy, comical and completely unlikable pseudo-biologist down a hot, sticky, mosquito-infested, crocodile-ridden, and ridiculously ill-fated path... from a previously bland housing-development life in Boca Raton to the depths of the swampy Everglades. Crimes against the environment and one miserably failed murder attempt af I do love to junk out on Carl Hiaasen - his characters are the best of the best as far as endearing-bizarre-flaky. A failed attempt at killing his wife leads a fantastically sleazy, comical and completely unlikable pseudo-biologist down a hot, sticky, mosquito-infested, crocodile-ridden, and ridiculously ill-fated path... from a previously bland housing-development life in Boca Raton to the depths of the swampy Everglades. Crimes against the environment and one miserably failed murder attempt after the next definitely kept this read fast, fun and intriguing. As always, Hiaasen's beyond-quirky characters drive the story. I enjoyed this, but Nature Girl still reigns supreme ...more Okay, so I know that I am lame. I picked this book out based solely on the fact that I discovered that it was on Dr. Shephard's shelf. However, I saw it also came highly recommended. So I thought I'd check it out. Plot: Charles Perrone, a crooked marine biologist who drives a Hummer and doesn't recycle, dumps his wife, Joey, off a cruise ship into the Key West waters to die. Joey, a champion swimmer, however does not die and is rescued by first a bale of marijuana and then Mick Stanagan, a chronic Okay, so I know that I am lame. I picked this book out based solely on the fact that I discovered that it was on Dr. Shephard's shelf. However, I saw it also came highly recommended. So I thought I'd check it out. Plot: Charles Perrone, a crooked marine biologist who drives a Hummer and doesn't recycle, dumps his wife, Joey, off a cruise ship into the Key West waters to die. Joey, a champion swimmer, however does not die and is rescued by first a bale of marijuana and then Mick Stanagan, a chronic divorcee and ex-cop. Ticked beyond reason, Joey wants to torment her husband. Meanwhile, Charles spends most of his time behaving like an adolescent and getting freaked out by a curious cop, Rolvaag, who thinks the marine biologist is not quite what he seems, and his real employer, Red Hammernut, whose assets would be in danger if he actually implemented the environmental practices dictated by government ordnances. Good: This is a really good plot concept. Husband chucks wife into the ocean; wife swims to safety and decides to torment husband. Really inventive idea (but see below). Besides the fact that Jack Shephard had this book on his bookshelf, this was another reason I was excited to read this book. Although some of the characters were heavily caricatured and hard to relate to, there were a few that I could connect with, namely Mick Stanagan and Karl Rolvaag. I liked how Carl Hiassen wrote them. Mick was the reclusive former cop (although, now that I think about it, he really doesn't act like a cop) who lends a helping hand to poor Joey. Further, I felt that Joey and Mick really had chemistry. Karl Rolvaag was a very interesting character as well. His little plot line--moving to Minnesota and losing his pythons--made him very human. He really didn't have much point in the book and isn't moral enough to see justice carried out, but I still liked him. Ricca, Chaz's girlfriend, was really fun. The way she tormented him...man! Her split with Chaz just proves that Chaz can't keep a woman longer than a night. Bad: Here are the points that really drive me nuts. 1. Despite the copious \"laugh-out loud, screwball humor\" quotes from the New York Times, People, Los Angeles Times Book Review, etc., I really didn't find a whole lot of this funny. Not gut-wrenching funny. More of like amusing, \"Oh, that's weird\" funny, if any type of funny at all. I don't think I cracked a grin, much less burst out into guffaws over any of the scenes in this book. So, this was rather disappointing to me. 2. This book must have been written with adolescent boys in mind. Before I read this, I thought Red Dwarf was bad. This book makes Red Dwarf look like monastery material. Every single chapter has some explicit sexual situation in it. While I understand that this is consistent with Chaz's character, I wished that the author had held back a little on his descriptions. After all, this is a mystery book. 3. The \"bad guys\" were pretty stupid and hicky. Red Hammernut spoke like a moron; I have no idea why presidents, governors, and the like would care to be seen around such an idiot. Tool had character, but he was rather far-fetched. His relationship with Maureen tried to bring the humanity out of him, but it was too late for the Mountain Dew-chugging, rear-end wounded crew boss turned bodyguard. Chaz was a self-absorbed, sex-obsessed teenager disguised as a doctor. He is so incompetent, he can't kill not once, but three times and has no idea what his degree entails. I don't see how Karl Rolvaag and his team could not get enough information on this rag-tag team of imbeciles to throw them away forever. 4. The \"good guys\" were somewhat flat. Joey seems to be a really competent woman with a good head on her shoulders, but I can't believe that she would have stuck with Chaz for as long as she did (what with Chaz's adolescent behavior). Mick is okay, but there really isn't enough of him to get into his mind. He is a loner on an island with so many divorces. Karl is just a cop more interested in moving than in doing his job well. It's a good thing he left or no case in Florida would ever be solved. Corbett is a strange sheepherder. When I say strange, I say hermit living in the boonies with long beards and staffs. Why is it when authors want to show a hermit they have to make him with long unkempt beards and staffs? I love nature too, but I also love having my hair nice, my nails kept, and makeup every once and awhile. 5. The plot concept was good, but got bogged down in recounting Chaz's sexual life, Tool's rear injury and idiosyncrasies, little episodes about Karl's move to Minnesota, Red's rantings, and all the strange, not quite explained things that Joey and Mick do to drive Chaz nuts. And then what should have been an ultimate showdown becomes an ultimate \"let-down\". If my husband had chucked me over a boat, I certainly wouldn't be taking the road that Joey did. Dialogue/Sexual Situations/Violence: F-word gets a real workout. There were 496 pages in my copy; the word appeared at least once on every page. That does not even include other foul language, such as sh**, d***, and rude terms for minorities (blacks, Hispanics, etc.). Sexual situations are about as frequent as the f-word is. In the approximately 30 chapters, some type of sexual situation--either from Chaz or Joey--or sexual innuendo is presented in somewhat graphic terms. Chaz has been cheating on his wife; Joey sleeps with another man. Violence is moderate--mostly reduced to a man who is afflicted with a bullet up his you-know-what, insinuated comments about how migrant workers were treated, and one person who ends up skewered. Overall: On the one hand, this is a well-written book. I finished it within a week and for an almost 500 page book, that is impressive (for me). Of course, the language wasn't that advanced and the writing easy, but still, it was catchy. Also, the plot moved forward--even when it got bogged down with Chaz's innumerable sexual exploits. The characters, although caricatures, talked like they should and not as if they planned their statements using a thesaurus. That said, I still think that too much of the plot centered on Chaz's sex life. The book needed to focus more on Joey's efforts and less on Chaz's sexual exploits. ...more Someone recommended Carl Hiaasen\u2019s latest book to me, Bad Monkey . But I am not as dumb as I may appear! From the effusive encomium of this trusted recommender, I knew I would like this guy, so I went back a bit in time to acquaint myself with this author. That way, when I found that I loved him, I wouldn\u2019t have to go totally backwards in my reading, which I hate doing! Skinny Dip is a crime novel that sits heads and shoulders above the usual fare, for its characterizations, biting and witty soci Someone recommended Carl Hiaasen\u2019s latest book to me, Bad Monkey . But I am not as dumb as I may appear! From the effusive encomium of this trusted recommender, I knew I would like this guy, so I went back a bit in time to acquaint myself with this author. That way, when I found that I loved him, I wouldn\u2019t have to go totally backwards in my reading, which I hate doing! Skinny Dip is a crime novel that sits heads and shoulders above the usual fare, for its characterizations, biting and witty social satire, madcap noirish humor (sort of like the Coen Brothers) and deft writing in general. I am delighted to have discovered this author, and even more so to find out that there are many more of his books to read! As you discover right in the beginning, Chaz Peronne, good-looking, but good-for-nothing, as well as vapid, contemptible, and greedy, dumps his wife Joey off the deck of a ship on a cruise to celebrate their second wedding anniversary. Joey can swim, but eventually she tires out. However, she lucks out by bumping into a floating bale of Jamaican pot. She hangs on until she is rescued by Mick Stranahan, a 53-year-old ex-cop who now lives on a remote island off the coast of Miami. Once she recovers, Joey has no interest in calling the police; she wants revenge on Chaz, and Mick agrees to help her. Meanwhile, back on shore, a transplanted Norwegian detective from Minnesota, Karl Rolvaag, who likes to pretend he\u2019s in the script of the movie Fargo, doesn\u2019t buy Chaz\u2019s story that his wife\u2019s death was an accident. So Rolvaag also goes after Chaz. And that\u2019s not all! Chaz is also being watched by \u201cTool,\u201d a humongous bodyguard sent by Red Hammernut, his corrupt boss, who worries that Chaz will become unstable and spill the beans about their depredation of the Everglades. Tool is, to me, the best character in the book: very large, very dumb, but soft-hearted, lonely, and more open to new ideas and new relationships than anyone else in the story. The person he finds to fill the holes in his life creates the best and most touching story of the book. The noose tightens around Chaz, with a corresponding increase in zaniness in the story. I don't think it's purely coincidental that one of the characters loves Fargo - there are many similarities. The story wraps up in a satisfying way, with \"cosmic justice\" for all! Discussion: There are several hilarious ongoing jokes in this book, from Chaz\u2019s relationship to his male member, to Tool\u2019s love of collecting roadside crosses, to the trials and tribulations of criminals. Hiaasen integrates them into the story so well, and in just the right proportions, that it is never tedious or repetitive, but rather delightfully entertaining. Mick Stranahan may be an \u201cold geezer\u201d as Joey calls him affectionally, but he is one of the most endearing as well as romantic characters I have encountered in fiction. And Rolvaag: how subtle and funny, and how lovable as well. He too has an unusual way to deal with his loneliness, and one that is also very funny. This author not only writes books for adults, but has won the coveted Newbery Honor for his debut children\u2019s book. He churns out those now too, as well as some non-fiction. His books get gushing reviews and now I can see why. I can\u2019t wait to tackle more of his oeuvre! Evaluation: This book is clever, zany, and heartwarming all at once. It\u2019s a quick, entertaining read, and yet it is much more memorable than most in this category. Highly recommended! ...more Audiobook read by Stephen Hoye On their anniversary cruise, Chaz Perrone throws his wife Joey overboard. He has to kill her because she\u2019s discovered his secret. But Joey was a champion swimmer in college and she manages to survive the night, clinging to a bale of Jamaican weed. She\u2019s rescued by Mick Stranahan, former investigator for the Dade State Attorney\u2019s office, now \u201cretired\u201d and living on a remote island with his dog Strom. Rather than go to the police, Joey convinces Mick that they should Audiobook read by Stephen Hoye On their anniversary cruise, Chaz Perrone throws his wife Joey overboard. He has to kill her because she\u2019s discovered his secret. But Joey was a champion swimmer in college and she manages to survive the night, clinging to a bale of Jamaican weed. She\u2019s rescued by Mick Stranahan, former investigator for the Dade State Attorney\u2019s office, now \u201cretired\u201d and living on a remote island with his dog Strom. Rather than go to the police, Joey convinces Mick that they should \u201cmess with Chaz\u201d until he goes bonkers. And the fun begins. This is typical Hiaasen: outlandish situations and inept crooks with a dose of environmental concern. The bad guys are, as usual the most colorful of the lot \u2013 a hirsute giant with an addiction to painkillers, an incompetent scientist who would rather be golfing (when he\u2019s not boinking his mistress), and a moneyed \u201cfarmer\u201d who believes environmental regulations don\u2019t (or shouldn\u2019t) apply to him. The women are na\u00efve one minute and incredibly clever when scorned. As usual they get the best of the bad guys. The good guys \u2013 Detective Rolvaag and Mick \u2013 are straight arrows, strong, and silent. They have their own quirks, of course \u2013 Rolvaag has two pet pythons, and Mick has been married six times \u2013 but they are definitely good guys. Recurring character Skink makes a brief appearance, though his name is never used (but who can forget a one-eyed hermit given to wearing a plastic shower cap and eating road kill?). I love Hiaasen\u2019s books for their wit and craziness. Like his others, this novel is a fast read and entertaining from the first sentence to the last. Stephen Hoye does a fine job narrating the audio version. He has a good pace and his interpretation is at once incredulous and resigned to the craziness. He brings this zany cast of characters to life. ...more This book was plain hilarious. It begins with Chaz throwing wife Joey overboard a cruise ship and her not only surviving, but plotting her revenge against him with ex-cop Mick. She decides to \"stay dead\" while slowly driving Chaz mad until the big ending. A little action, comedy, and romance wrapped into one book. As unrealistic and laughable as Hiaasen's books are, they somehow tend to work out well this way. I always feel like it's a light break from the heavy stuff and can always expect a goo This book was plain hilarious. It begins with Chaz throwing wife Joey overboard a cruise ship and her not only surviving, but plotting her revenge against him with ex-cop Mick. She decides to \"stay dead\" while slowly driving Chaz mad until the big ending. A little action, comedy, and romance wrapped into one book. As unrealistic and laughable as Hiaasen's books are, they somehow tend to work out well this way. I always feel like it's a light break from the heavy stuff and can always expect a good laugh. This is one of my favorite of his novels. ...more I read this when I was on vacation in Florida, and I liked it -- it was F-U-N. This is the only Hiaasen I've ever read, though I've started one or two others and not gotten into it/them. I have to admit, while I was reading this I couldn't stop wishing that Elmore Leonard would care about the environment. I really love that Hiassen works his conservationist agenda in so wonderfully in a way that enhances, rather than detracts from, his fun fun fun story, but I just can't get as into other stuff a I read this when I was on vacation in Florida, and I liked it -- it was F-U-N. This is the only Hiaasen I've ever read, though I've started one or two others and not gotten into it/them. I have to admit, while I was reading this I couldn't stop wishing that Elmore Leonard would care about the environment. I really love that Hiassen works his conservationist agenda in so wonderfully in a way that enhances, rather than detracts from, his fun fun fun story, but I just can't get as into other stuff about him as I'd like to be. It's kind of like going on a date with a cute, charming, alcoholic electrician who's got a lot of wonderful qualities, but you can't stop thinking of another cute, charming, alcoholic electrician from your past, and wishing you were out with him instead. I didn't think this book was so hilarious, and the romance was really cheesy and flat for me. This Florida crime genre seems to be romance-that-it's-okay-for-dudes-to-read, and Leonard writes better romances than the one in here. I also just like his books a whole lot more in general. Maybe it isn't fair to compare them, especially since I've only read this one, but that's who I was thinking of while I was with Carl: Elmore! So there it is.... Also, I enjoyed this book, but I was annoyed by some aspects of it. There wasn't much tension or suspense. You basically knew what was going on from the beginning, so there wasn't much to find out; the husband was a dick, and it didn't make sense that she would've married him, but she did, so that was that. The heroine was insanely rich, which can be done well, but here it just kind of made everything way too easy, plus the author's constant naming of the various designers she was wearing felt kind of distracting and unnatural to me; he'd be like, \"Then she bought a blue silk Michael Kors miniskirt, which she looked great in.\" And you're like, \"Well, it sucks about the Everglades, but other than that, is there really a problem here?\" But then you're like, \"Who cares, this is awesome, I'm on vacation.\" Still, all in all, it was very enjoyable, and I 'd recommend this book for someone interested in a madcap caper kind of thing for a beach kind of situation. I would not recommend reading this in the dead of winter if you're someplace cold, because that'd probably make you depressed and bitter. Should I make an effort to stop comparing him unfavorably to Leonard, and read more Hiassen? People (e.g., Jen, Mom) love him. If so, what's good? ...more Hiaasen with a heart. I enjoyed this book enormously, just for the sheer silliness of it. And there was a cameo appearance of Skink!!! My only complaint is that I read it at night so that my dreams became quite Hiaasenesque. Actually, my favorite character was Tool, the hirsute hit man. (Well, he's not really a hit man, but the alliteration was just too good to miss!) Amazon Editorial Review: Charles \"Chaz\" Perrone fancies himself a take-charge kind of guy. So when this \"biologist by default\" susp Hiaasen with a heart. I enjoyed this book enormously, just for the sheer silliness of it. And there was a cameo appearance of Skink!!! My only complaint is that I read it at night so that my dreams became quite Hiaasenesque. Actually, my favorite character was Tool, the hirsute hit man. (Well, he's not really a hit man, but the alliteration was just too good to miss!) Amazon Editorial Review: Charles \"Chaz\" Perrone fancies himself a take-charge kind of guy. So when this \"biologist by default\" suspects that his curvaceous wife, Joey, has stumbled onto a profitable pollution scam he's running on behalf of Florida agribusiness mogul Red Hammernut, he sets out right away to solve the problem--by heaving Joey off the deck of a luxury cruise liner and into the Atlantic Ocean, far from Key West. But--whoops!--Joey, a former swimming champ, doesn't drown. Instead, as Carl Hiaasen tells in his 10th adult novel, Skinny Dip, she makes her way back to shore, thanks both to a wayward bale of Jamaican marijuana and lonerish ex-cop Mick Stranahan (Skin Tight, 1989), and then launches a bogus blackmail campaign that's guaranteed to drive her lazy, libidinous hubby into a self-protective frenzy. You've got to hand it to Hiaasen: He's perfected a formula for crisply written, satirical crime fiction that makes the best use of imaginatively repulsive villains, as well as less thoroughly venal scoundrels and victims who ultimately overcome their antagonists, all while stumping for the preservation of Florida's environment, particularly the Everglades. In Skinny Dip, we find Chaz (who'd rather be golfing than puttering around the \"hot, buggy, funky-smelling and treacherous\" reaches of nature) falsifying water samples to help Hammernut turn the 'Glades into \"God's septic tank.\" That scheme, though, is endangered not just by Joey's sudden disappearance, but by the suspicions of a python-loving police detective and Chaz's own outstanding inability to tame his Viagra-enhanced tumescence. Even by assigning Chaz a baby-sitter--the hulking, hirsute, and painkiller-addicted Tool--Hammernut can't keep his pet biologist out of trouble. As Joey and Stranahan unfold their revenge plot, and Tool's conscience grows in competition with Chaz's ego, the reader can only marvel at the extent of the train wreck ahead. ...more This is my first Hiaasen, but I doubt it will be my last. This was a fun, quick, quirky read, and it had enough humor and drama to keep my interest throughout. This genre - pop mystery/thriller - is not one I read a whole lot of, but I probably would if more were like Skinny Dip . This reminded me a lot of one of those dark, zany movies ( A Fish Called Wanda , maybe?) - some of the characters were a little too outrageous and one-dimensional, and some of the situations a bit too absurd, but it works This is my first Hiaasen, but I doubt it will be my last. This was a fun, quick, quirky read, and it had enough humor and drama to keep my interest throughout. This genre - pop mystery/thriller - is not one I read a whole lot of, but I probably would if more were like Skinny Dip . This reminded me a lot of one of those dark, zany movies ( A Fish Called Wanda , maybe?) - some of the characters were a little too outrageous and one-dimensional, and some of the situations a bit too absurd, but it works because of its tongue-in-cheek approach. Hiaasen - I think - is trying to expose some of the absurdities of his own genre by playing with them in unconventional ways (for a point of comparison, I saw the same kind of thing in Joss Whedon's Cabin in the Woods ). I have a soft spot for this sort of meta-self-critique. For instance, to be a thriller (at least one that's thrilling), there have to be lots of close calls. That means the protagonist is either very lucky, or the antagonist is very inept. Normally, we don't think about this - in fact, the author probably hopes that we miss/ignore it. Hiaasen, however, in crafting an inept killer, exaggerates this aspect of the character and even has the hapless (attempted) murderer comment on his own futility. This book isn't perfect, but I don't think it's trying to be, and the result is highly entertaining and irreverent. ...more I will admit that the concept of the book is delicious. A botched murder attempt by a self absorbed, fairly clever and fraudulent biologist husband of his far more clever and resourceful wife leads to a plot of revenge from \"beyond the grave\". The characters are interesting to say the least. They are often quirky to the point of being nearly absurd. That said, why 3 stars? By the time the book ended, I didn't care much for what happened to the characters. The character of Chaz Porrone, the naught I will admit that the concept of the book is delicious. A botched murder attempt by a self absorbed, fairly clever and fraudulent biologist husband of his far more clever and resourceful wife leads to a plot of revenge from \"beyond the grave\". The characters are interesting to say the least. They are often quirky to the point of being nearly absurd. That said, why 3 stars? By the time the book ended, I didn't care much for what happened to the characters. The character of Chaz Porrone, the naughty husband, became less interesting as the book progressed. He spent far too much time focusing on his \"performance\" in certain rooms in the house (read: bedroom) and it simply became tiring. The possibilities for revenge and for messing with the mind of a would be murderer who believe he had committed the perfect crime, were many. In the end, I was disappointed hoping that he had been messed with on a much greater scale. The book was occasionally funny. This was my first Carl Hiaasen book/audiobook and was expecting more humour. Maybe it didn't register in the audiobook and would be funnier when read. In the end, a great idea with average execution. ...more So I just finished Skinny Dip by Carl Hiaasen. I had read his Strip Tease and Lucky You a while ago, but forgot how funny he can be. While I look forward to reading more of his books, they certainly don't make me want to visit Florida anytime soon. Strong women seem to be a theme in his work. It made me think of Maureen Dowd's essay in the NYT Magazine, \"What's a Modern Girl to Do?\". A rather rambling collection of her musings regarding feminism, post-feminism, the feminisation of feminism, and t So I just finished Skinny Dip by Carl Hiaasen. I had read his Strip Tease and Lucky You a while ago, but forgot how funny he can be. While I look forward to reading more of his books, they certainly don't make me want to visit Florida anytime soon. Strong women seem to be a theme in his work. It made me think of Maureen Dowd's essay in the NYT Magazine, \"What's a Modern Girl to Do?\". A rather rambling collection of her musings regarding feminism, post-feminism, the feminisation of feminism, and the back lash against feminism. Anyway...she quotes several single women in her article that talk about how Men are put off by strong, accomplished, powerful women (we assume these women are referring to themselves). Her sample of women, however, seem to include only those in the New York publishing scene. Draw your own conclusions. Let me get back to my point. I am a big fan of strong, accomplished, powerful women (one in particular) and find it somewhat insulting that Maureen Dowd can claim all Men want to \"marry down\" based on her circle of feminine feminists. ...more Chaz Perrone is driven by two things--money and releasing sexual energy. His wife, Joey, helps with one of these drives and gets in the way of the other. So, he chucks her overboard on their anniversary cruise. Joey Perrone is familiar with tragedy... her parents died when she was young, her first husband died in a freak accident, and her second husband has, well, chucked her overboard on their anniversary cruise. But, Joey survived her fall. The reader discovers the why's and how's of Chaz's crim Chaz Perrone is driven by two things--money and releasing sexual energy. His wife, Joey, helps with one of these drives and gets in the way of the other. So, he chucks her overboard on their anniversary cruise. Joey Perrone is familiar with tragedy... her parents died when she was young, her first husband died in a freak accident, and her second husband has, well, chucked her overboard on their anniversary cruise. But, Joey survived her fall. The reader discovers the why's and how's of Chaz's crime early on, and will find humor in the ways in which Joey tries to pay him back and find out why he did it. I enjoyed this book, by an author whose work I've never read before. It was an enjoyable and twisted plot... perfect for reading while hanging out on the beach. ...more This is my first Hiaasen book and won't be my last. A very fun read. A comic suspense. (view spoiler) [ a multiple murder mystery, where few bodies ever show up! (hide spoiler) ] I know, I know that\u2019s an oxymoron, but read it and see if I\u2019m not right. Every main character in this book had their life altered in some unexpected way; each to surprising satisfaction. There are a couple of textbookie spots where the crime of swamp pollution was explained, and I think that it is part of Carl's hidden agend This is my first Hiaasen book and won't be my last. A very fun read. A comic suspense. (view spoiler) [ a multiple murder mystery, where few bodies ever show up! (hide spoiler) ] I know, I know that\u2019s an oxymoron, but read it and see if I\u2019m not right. Every main character in this book had their life altered in some unexpected way; each to surprising satisfaction. There are a couple of textbookie spots where the crime of swamp pollution was explained, and I think that it is part of Carl's hidden agenda, but I didn't mind being informed. Hiaasen clearly knows about the Everglades; flora, fauna...muck and all. I happily went on safari from my armchair! ...more I'm on a big Carl Hiaasen kick. I just love the way his characters are such \"characters\"! You never once think, \"Now who's that guy?\" because everyone is so memorable. I listened to Skinny Dip on audio and the sex scene in chapter eight is one of the most hilariously awkward character-driven sex scenes I've ever heard! I was driving down the street roaring with laughter, and had to sit in my driveway with the car running a few minutes to see how it all played out. I think that's the mark of a gre I'm on a big Carl Hiaasen kick. I just love the way his characters are such \"characters\"! You never once think, \"Now who's that guy?\" because everyone is so memorable. I listened to Skinny Dip on audio and the sex scene in chapter eight is one of the most hilariously awkward character-driven sex scenes I've ever heard! I was driving down the street roaring with laughter, and had to sit in my driveway with the car running a few minutes to see how it all played out. I think that's the mark of a great audiobook :D Hearing the story on audio definitely enhanced the parts where a character disguised his voice and made blackmail phonecalls in the voice of Charlton Heston and Jerry Lewis! ...more yes, carl hiaasen is prone to somewhat stereotypical characters, but having spent a lot of time in florida ... well, i think there are a lot of people who manifest even less depth of character than those in hiaasen's novels. at least his books are replete with the absurd, something i appreciate. (strip malls with pawn shops and flea markets, palms and the nouveau riche ... this is the florida i recognize). i laugh out loud a lot reading hiaasen's books, and that's no easy feat. :) for \"caper\" fic yes, carl hiaasen is prone to somewhat stereotypical characters, but having spent a lot of time in florida ... well, i think there are a lot of people who manifest even less depth of character than those in hiaasen's novels. at least his books are replete with the absurd, something i appreciate. (strip malls with pawn shops and flea markets, palms and the nouveau riche ... this is the florida i recognize). i laugh out loud a lot reading hiaasen's books, and that's no easy feat. :) for \"caper\" fiction, hiassen's one of my absolute favorites. ...more<---C>Carl Hiaasen</---C>", "Title": "Skinny Dip"},
