{"Comments": "I have liked this book a great deal more than I wanted to admit. It flows easily,<---M> and the diary format</---M>, with short entries and some gossipy ingredients, makes it hard to break away.<---F> This was addictive reading</---F>. Several readers in GR have criticized that they do not like the main character. To me he comes across as an ordinary man, with weaknesses (<---B>alcohol and women</---B>), some cowardly reactions, but showing also bouts of integrity and a fair amount of self-honesty (to what extent does diary-writing in I have liked this book a great deal more than I wanted to admit. It flows easily, and the diary format, with short entries and some gossipy ingredients, makes it hard to break away. This was addictive reading. Several readers in GR have criticized that they do not like the main character. To me he comes across as an ordinary man, with weaknesses (alcohol and women), some cowardly reactions, but showing also bouts of integrity and a fair amount of self-honesty (to what extent does diary-writing invite to a truthful self-examination?). As a sort of anti-hero, his story seems a twentieth century Education Sentimentale . But I wonder whether the main character and his development is the only center of the book. I think of him as a catheter-like mechanism that travels through the interstices of the Twentieth Century. He moves from Uruguay, to British public school, Oxford, London, Paris, Spain, Bermudas, Switzerland, New York, Nigeria, London again, Germany, France\u2026 Moving from place to place, he is taken in by the series of events that unfolded during the dramatic century: pre- to post- WWI; Paris Avant-Garde; Financial Crash and 30s Depression; Spanish Civil War; Crisis in the British Crown; WW2 with the London Bombings and the not-really-neutral Switzerland; again the Avant-Garde in NY in the 50s; Nigeria and the Biafra the following decade; and the 70s in decrepit London under the Labour Gov. or in Germany at the time of the Red Army Faction, etc\u2026 The twentieth century itself emerges as the protagonist of the novel. Boyd\u2019s handling of facts and fiction is brilliant. He uses a typical trick found in historical novels and that can easily become a trap. In all this traveling through time, we walk through a gallery of the rich and famous (Waugh, Hemingway, Woolf, Picasso, the Windsors, etc\u2026), but in Boyd\u2019s pen it does not become ridiculous. He handles the edited diary form quite effectively. There are footnotes with data on real events and people, gaps are clarified through additional notes from the (fictional) editor, and finally a (fake) bibliography of the author... etc. No wonder readers at first thought that the main character had been a writer in real life. In <+++>Any Human Heart</+++>, the life of an individual is tossed around by dramatic events so that it is hard to see to what extent the identity of any one person is shaped by circumstances and\u2026 \u201c never say you know the last word of any human heart\u201d (Henry James) . ...more Thick, dense, and sprawling... not my usual fare, I must say, but I simply could not put this book down. '<+++>Any Human Heart</+++>' is one of those rare long novels that pulls you in and holds you tight throughout its many pages. Exceptionally well written, <---A>William</---A> Boyd has a rare gift for effective and robust prose. 'Any Human Heart' has it all: love, laughter, pain, torment, tears, successes and failures. It's a masterpiece in every sense of the word. The novel is the life story of an Englishman named Thick, dense, and sprawling... not my usual fare, I must say, but I simply could not put this book down. 'Any Human Heart' is one of those rare long novels that pulls you in and holds you tight throughout its many pages. Exceptionally well written, William Boyd has a rare gift for effective and robust prose. 'Any Human Heart' has it all: love, laughter, pain, torment, tears, successes and failures. It's a masterpiece in every sense of the word. The novel is the life story of an Englishman named Logan Mountstuart who was born at the turn of the 20th century and died close to the end of it. Told through journal entries from his early childhood all the way to his dying days, the book is deeply personal and heartfelt. Eighty-five years on this earth, and Logan experienced enough for several lifetimes. He was well-educated, well-traveled, and by the end of it well-versed in human emotion, conflict, and fallibility. His paths in life take him all over the world, to places both wondrous and dangerous. Along the way he has many relationships of many different kinds with an array of people. During his travels he comes into contact and rubs shoulders with some of the most famous and notorious names of the century, although he never becomes one himself. 'Any Human Heart' certainly turned out to be something unexpectedly special. Regardless of what type of genres you typically enjoy, I highly recommend this tale of one man's life lived to the fullest. ...more Britanci su snimili sjajan film snimljen po ovoj knjizi... Kako to samo oni umeju da urade... :) A na ovog autora obratite paznju, odlican je... I enjoyed this tremendously, even though I watched the TV adaptation a few weeks earlier, so I already knew the characters and plot (though there are some differences). STRUCTURED AS MEMOIRS This is presented as a compilation of journals kept by Logan Mountstuart from shortly before he left school in the 1920s until just before his death aged 85. Consequently, they describe things as they were at the time, with candour and an absence of hindsight. It also means there are gaps and changes of style. I enjoyed this tremendously, even though I watched the TV adaptation a few weeks earlier, so I already knew the characters and plot (though there are some differences). STRUCTURED AS MEMOIRS This is presented as a compilation of journals kept by Logan Mountstuart from shortly before he left school in the 1920s until just before his death aged 85. Consequently, they describe things as they were at the time, with candour and an absence of hindsight. It also means there are gaps and changes of style. The pretence is carried further by the presence of footnotes (including \"corrections\" and even a reference to Boyd's own biography of an artist), an index and other later editorial notes, including Logan's introduction, in which he explains, \"We keep a journal to entrap the collection of selves that forms us\". I think it is the different voices of Logan at different times in his life that make the book work so well: often he is not very likeable, but he has a certain charm, and his triumphs are balanced by tragedy. It is not a continuous narrative, but rather, broken down into journals covering significant periods in his life: school (establishing his key friendships with Peter Scabius and Ben Leeping); Oxford university; London as a writer and journalist (marriage, then a coup de foudre); naval intelligence in WW2; return to a changed London; NY (art dealer); Africa (teaching); London (including links with the Baader Meinhof gang) and finally, retirement in France. The framework of the book lends teenage anxieties more poignancy, e.g. \"as ever, my predominant emotion is one of disappointment... could this be the pattern of my life ahead? Every ambition thwarted, every dream stillborn?\". At other times, Logan as an old man does insert a retrospective analysis, e.g. \"I often wonder if those early sexual experiences with Tess and Anna warped me irrevocably\" - a plausible attempt to justify some of his subsequent behaviour. FAMOUS FRIENDS A distinctive conceit of the book is the number of significant real characters Logan gets to know during his life: mostly authors (e.g. James Joyce, Ian Fleming, Virginia Wolf, Ernest Hemingway) and artists (Picasso, Paul Klee), but also the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. I am not an expert on any of them, but it rings true, and feels a natural element of the narrative. The only weak part for me is the Baader Meinhof episode, but I suppose that is meant to balance and contrast with his earlier work in naval intelligence. Later on, Logan remembers being told that \"the only point of keeping a journal was to concentrate on the personal... and to forget about the great and significant events in the world at large\", but this book does both. CATHOLICISM Perhaps the most unusual aspect of Logan's character is that he is a lapsed Catholic who is largely untouched by guilt, even though he has much to be guilty about. He can feel guilt, though only his son arouses it in him. He coldy explains \"need and opportunity - the ingredients of all betrayals\" and \"I absolutely need variety and surprise. I have to have the city in my life... otherwise I dessicate and die\". Yet he often feels a victim of circumstance, \"A sense of my life being entirely out of my control - which is not the same as being out of control\". HAPPINESS? The final question, and one Logan doesn't entirely resolve, is around the pain of having known true happiness - and lost it. ME! One detail that no one else would notice was that there were TWO, albeit very minor, characters called Cecily: Cecily Brewer, at whose home he lodged, and another Cecily who was his mother's housemaid. ...more I don't think I've ever mourned the end of a character in quite the way I mourned Logan Mountstuart, tears winding down my temples as I peeled through the last pages in bed last night. I don't tend to get all that emotionally invested in the things I read (sentimental sure, but I typically retain that sense of fictionality (\"yes, it was very sad when the man stopped drawing the deer \")) but the way the main body of Any Human Heart is presented as a salvaged journal scaffolded by biographical anno I don't think I've ever mourned the end of a character in quite the way I mourned Logan Mountstuart, tears winding down my temples as I peeled through the last pages in bed last night. I don't tend to get all that emotionally invested in the things I read (sentimental sure, but I typically retain that sense of fictionality (\"yes, it was very sad when the man stopped drawing the deer \")) but the way the main body of Any Human Heart is presented as a salvaged journal scaffolded by biographical annotation lends an air of reality that is difficult to bear in mind as a mere artistic effect. The characterisation is incredibly deft. Logan is somehow by the end a completely different man from the boy he was; somehow completely the same. Boyd's cleverest flourishes, perhaps, are the boring mundane little interludes: descriptions of lunches, the weather. The end-of-year summaries, those caught little reflections. The little pep talks, the hapless repeating/adapting of information. How some people disappear completely without another word on their fate. How others come back and come back and come back. It's difficult-to-physically-impossible for me to believe LMS wasn't really a real person once. Spent all day at work today missing him; found myself last night thinking I should track down his published fiction. I've read a lot of fantastic novels these past months and this might not be the best, but it feels the most special. I feel like I learned the most about myself from it. You gotta read this book. ...more Yeah, I rally liked this book. Maybe it is even amazing. I love it because it is set in France, both in Paris and villages along the coast, NYC, London, Spain, Nigeria, Reykjavik, the Bahamas and more. I love it because it captures the WHOLE life of an ordinary man. It is about youth, the middle years and aging. Being a child and having children. It is about love, the physical attraction and the emotional one. Logan, the central character, is, a man with strong sexual needs. Some may label him as i Yeah, I rally liked this book. Maybe it is even amazing. I love it because it is set in France, both in Paris and villages along the coast, NYC, London, Spain, Nigeria, Reykjavik, the Bahamas and more. I love it because it captures the WHOLE life of an ordinary man. It is about youth, the middle years and aging. Being a child and having children. It is about love, the physical attraction and the emotional one. Logan, the central character, is, a man with strong sexual needs. Some may label him as immoral. Sure, if he were my husband I would be hurt and furious. But who am I to judge another human being? Who am I to say he was bad? Any Human Heart captures the 20th Century. What we are reading is Logan's autobiography based on his private journals. He is who he is; at the same time he is aware of his own weaknesses. History is wonderfully woven in; Logan is NOT at the center of history\u2019s outstanding events; that would be skewed. He is at the fringe. The book doesn\u2019t teach the history of the 1900s but it shows how that century\u2019s events intersected people\u2019s lives and it gives tantalizing bits of less well known information, all historically accurate\u2026as far as I can see. There are bits about the Duke and Duchess of Windsor (i.e. the abdicated King Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson), Axel Wenner-Gren, the Baader-Meinhof gang, the authors and artists of the Lost Generation, the Spanish Civil War, the Biafran War. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Simon Vance. Not only are his French, English and American accents impeccable, but he also captures voice changes as one ages. His intonation of the aged Logan is fantastic. Just fantastic. French lines are not translated. But really what makes this book so special is HOW it is written. It is the lines. That is the ingredient that is so hard to define, but which makes or breaks a book. I gave a few quotes below, but to understand how perfect they are you have to read those lines in context. I loved the subtle humor. I was smiling at lines that could have disgusted me, but I they didn\u2019t. That is because they are spoken by Logan, and he is not me. Having read this book I understand Logan and that is why I can smile. I have seen the world through another\u2019s eyes. A wonderful experience. ********************************** I am nearing the end. Logan is 71. I am laughing and crying simultaneously. Ohhhhhh, the poor man. His diet! Do I dare tell you? He was looking for tinned stew with vegetables.He spotted a tin with the words \"plump chucklets of rabbit nestling in a rich dark gravy\"..... but on the other side it was labeled Bowser! A tin of dog food on the wrong shelf! He thought, \"If I bought six tins of Bowser, chopped up a carrot and onion and heated the whole thing in a saucepan.I might have a hearty rabbit stew that would last me a week..... And very tasty Bowser rabbit stew turned out to be, especially with a liberal addition of tomato ketchup and a good jolt of Worcester sauce. These last components, I would say, are essential for a all dog foods in my experience.\" Need I say he isn't doing so well financially? Just wait; you will also come to care for Logan. *********************************** Almost half left: With this book I realize I don't have to love the central character or any other character to enjoy a book. I like this book because of the lines, the way the author has the characters speak or express their thoughts. Logan, the central character, feels utterly REAL to me. His actions feel so genuine even if I don't happen to like them. I like how history is told through one person's life. The book has a good tempo. It has humor. I like how Logan travels around Europe, zigzagging between England, France and Spain, and we the readers can follow along. Good stuff. Also, the book is so simple to follow - no time jumps, no mystery puzzles, just a plain good story. A real person's life, that is how it feels. ...more I first heard of this book from Michael on the Books on the Nightstand podcast , the \"favorite\" he picked for the 2015 Booktopia discussions. I had never heard of Booktopia, a book lovers festival, until after it stopped being held in Asheville, NC, an hour from me. Sigh. I wanted to sort of play along anyway, and grabbed the two books the four podcasters chose that I hadn't previously read. This one has sat in my to-read piles for a while and I finally started it when I was looking for something I first heard of this book from Michael on the Books on the Nightstand podcast , the \"favorite\" he picked for the 2015 Booktopia discussions. I had never heard of Booktopia, a book lovers festival, until after it stopped being held in Asheville, NC, an hour from me. Sigh. I wanted to sort of play along anyway, and grabbed the two books the four podcasters chose that I hadn't previously read. This one has sat in my to-read piles for a while and I finally started it when I was looking for something I really wanted to be reading. I shouldn't have waited so long! I read the first 200 pages without taking a breath (okay, not literally) and had to deliberately sit it aside so I wouldn't read it all in a day. The book is 500 pages long but is written as a succession of journals by Logan Mountstuart, starting from age 17 (in 1923) to the last few years of his life. He is British so of course that takes him through World War II but not in a typical narrative (thank goodness). LMS (as he is referred to throughout) is a writer but also works for an art dealer, for the government, and other assorted jobs. His journals follow different phases in his life, including different relationships, locations, and significant events. LMS is not always the most likable of characters, but his voice is so distinctive and realistic that I think it is quite a success as a narrator. As a teen he is brash and cocky, and his elderly years are uncomfortably realistic in the ways he pinches pennies and maintains connections to old friends. The journals vary in tone and focus, just like a real person journals. When bad things are happening, he either journals drunk or not at all, again, like a real person journals. It made me wish I could keep a consistent journal going! In some ways, while his life is far more expansive, it took me back to Stoner in the reflections on a single life. He feels real in other ways - the author has sprinkled in historical figures throughout, as well as treating the journals as a primary source with occasional introductory information and footnotes clarifying little bits. Very readable, I enjoyed the approach, and as this author is an unknown to me, I'm curious to look at his other books. ...more When you start out, you'll think you might not like this book. The main character is arrogant and, well, young. Brash. But keep going through this fictionalized journal that keeps track of seventy years of a man's life, including his heartbreaks and strongest loves. Other reviewers bash it for its \"Forest Gumpness,\" yet to me it's not all that unbelievable that an upperclass intelligence officer might have contact with influential persons during one of the world's most tempestuous and active per When you start out, you'll think you might not like this book. The main character is arrogant and, well, young. Brash. But keep going through this fictionalized journal that keeps track of seventy years of a man's life, including his heartbreaks and strongest loves. Other reviewers bash it for its \"Forest Gumpness,\" yet to me it's not all that unbelievable that an upperclass intelligence officer might have contact with influential persons during one of the world's most tempestuous and active periods in history. I've read several William Boyd titles now and he has repeatedly shown his ability to invent worlds I like inhabiting. It's a good winter read, fully sad, sweet, and satisfying. ...more If you can imagine Johnny English meeting Rolf Harris meeting Forrest Gump meeting Grahame Greene meeting Adrian Mole (just after Sue Townshend lost interest in him), then you're not a million miles away from how the plot in this novel is set up. And although it does contain a lot of banality along with quite a few other weaknesses, this doesn't spoil too much what is a very, very special novel. When I read something that moves me, or resonates very strongly with me, I turn over the bottom of the If you can imagine Johnny English meeting Rolf Harris meeting Forrest Gump meeting Grahame Greene meeting Adrian Mole (just after Sue Townshend lost interest in him), then you're not a million miles away from how the plot in this novel is set up. And although it does contain a lot of banality along with quite a few other weaknesses, this doesn't spoil too much what is a very, very special novel. When I read something that moves me, or resonates very strongly with me, I turn over the bottom of the page of a book. I suppose I have this vague idea that one day I'll go and find all these turned up pages in the books that I've read and.... do something. I probably turned up more pages in this book than in most of the other books I've read in the past 10 years, put together. It is just chock full of tasty, golden nuggets. Just comments on life really - but extremely perceptive comments, that really hit home. At 480-odd pages, this does feel like a long book - but it doesn't read \"long\" at all - in fact, I was enjoying it so much that I rationed myself to small chunks for the last 80 or so pages, just because I didn't want to finish the book. I had the sense of \"I'm missing you already\" when I finished the last page. You do get the notion that maybe an over enthusiastic sub editor must have been at work on the book though - there are a series of huge, very apparent narrative contradictions - and then the odd character gets introduced as if he/ she is familiar to us, when they quite patently aren't. You expect a back story further on, and it never appears, and you can only assume that an earlier reference to that character must have been chopped out by our visceral sub editor. But then, it's meant to be based on a series of diaries, so maybe the back story would be obvious to the writer.... one of the many extra layers that keeps you thinking, thinking again, and thinking once more long after you've put this book back on the shelf. Which makes you take it off the shelf again... which is no bad thing at all, is it? But as I say, the apparent frequent flaws don't actually detract too much from your enjoyment of this terrific story- in fact, the flaws mirror the life of our hero, Logan Mountstuart. He's no perfect specimen, but then who is? That's one of the many reasons that this book is so good. One of the rare books that I'll be putting on my \"must read again\" list. I loved it. ...more (view spoiler) [ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler) ] The TV miniseries was just as good, maybe because Boyd wrote the screen play. Fully recommended. Fotograma da s\u00e9rie televisiva \u201cAny Human Heart\u201d \u2013 Channel 4 \u201cViagem ao Fundo de Um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d , \u201cAny Human Heart\u201d (2002) no original, escrito pelo ingl\u00eas William Boyd (n. 1952), \u00e9 um livro de mem\u00f3rias - \u201cOs Di\u00e1rios \u00cdntimos de Logan Mountstuart\u201d - um romance narrado na primeira pessoa por Logan Mountstuart que subdivide o seu di\u00e1rio em fun\u00e7\u00e3o de acontecimentos ou factos determinantes \u2013 \u201cO Di\u00e1rio do Col\u00e9gio\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio de Oxford\u201d, \u201cO Primeiro Di\u00e1rio de Londres\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio da Segunda Guerra Mundial\u201d, \u201c Fotograma da s\u00e9rie televisiva \u201cAny Human Heart\u201d \u2013 Channel 4 \u201cViagem ao Fundo de Um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d , \u201cAny Human Heart\u201d (2002) no original, escrito pelo ingl\u00eas William Boyd (n. 1952), \u00e9 um livro de mem\u00f3rias - \u201cOs Di\u00e1rios \u00cdntimos de Logan Mountstuart\u201d - um romance narrado na primeira pessoa por Logan Mountstuart que subdivide o seu di\u00e1rio em fun\u00e7\u00e3o de acontecimentos ou factos determinantes \u2013 \u201cO Di\u00e1rio do Col\u00e9gio\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio de Oxford\u201d, \u201cO Primeiro Di\u00e1rio de Londres\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio da Segunda Guerra Mundial\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio do P\u00f3s-Guerra\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio de Nova Iorque\u201d, \u201cO Di\u00e1rio Africano\u201d, \u201cO Segundo Di\u00e1rio de Londres\u201d e \u201cO Di\u00e1rio Franc\u00eas\u201d \u2013 com o seu in\u00edcio a 10 de Dezembro de 1923. Com 17 anos de idade, Logan Mountstuart decide redigir um di\u00e1rio, que o vai acompanhando toda a vida, por vezes de uma forma intermitente, um registo \u00edntimo que come\u00e7a com a \u201cdetermina\u00e7\u00e3o de ser total e inabalavelmente ver\u00eddico\u201d. \u201cExistem aspectos das nossas vidas \u2013 coisas que fazemos, sentimos e pensamos - que n\u00e3o ousamos confessar, nem sequer a n\u00f3s pr\u00f3prios, nem sequer na absoluta privacidade das nossas notas pessoais?\" . (P\u00e1g. 14) \u201cQualquer vida \u00e9, \u00e0 vez, vulgar e extraordin\u00e1ria: s\u00e3o as propor\u00e7\u00f5es respectivas dessas duas categorias que fazem com que essa vida pare\u00e7a interessante ou enfadonha.\u201d (P\u00e1g. 15) Afinal quem \u00e9 Logan Gonzago Mountstuart? Nasceu a 27 de Fevereiro de 1906, em Montevideu, no Uruguai, filho de pai brit\u00e2nico e m\u00e3e uruguaia, regressando a Inglaterra, \u00e0 cidade de Birminghan, com 13 anos de idade, para ingressar num col\u00e9gio interno para rapazes \u2013 Abbeyhurst College e faleceu a 5 de Outubro de 1991, em Sainte-Sabine, Fran\u00e7a. Logan Mountstuart, \u00e9 um escritor, um jornalista e cr\u00edtico liter\u00e1rio e de arte, espi\u00e3o, professor, um marchand de arte, uma personagem fascinante, um apaixonado pelo golfe (\"a sua principal virtude!\"), um ser humano com defeitos e qualidades, que ama e que odeia, excepcionalmente individualista e idiossincr\u00e1tico, que consegue superar as suas trag\u00e9dias pessoais, que omite e que mente, ego\u00edsta e generoso, casado tr\u00eas vezes, prom\u00edscuo sexualmente e que vai envelhecendo, num decl\u00ednio mais f\u00edsico do que intelectual, mas que o tornam num homem cada vez mais s\u00f3. Nessa sua viagem pela vida e pelo ambiente liter\u00e1rio e art\u00edstico do in\u00edcio do s\u00e9culo XX, Logan Mountstuart, acaba por se \u201ccruzar\u201d com in\u00fameros escritores, com destaque para Evelyn Waugh, Ernest Hemingway, James Joyce e, sobretudo, para Virginia Woolf , com quem tem uma discuss\u00e3o violenta em Londres; e pintores, alguns j\u00e1 consagrados e outros \u00e0 procura da fama, como Picasso, Kooning, Pollock e \"Nat Tate\", entre muitos outros, com quem se vai \u201ccruzando\u201d por Paris, Fran\u00e7a, Oxford, Londres e Nova Iorque. No seu di\u00e1rio da Segunda Guerra Mundial, Logan Mountstuart, \u00e9 convertido pelo escritor Ian Flemming num espi\u00e3o dos servi\u00e7os de informa\u00e7\u00e3o secreta da Marinha e \u00e9 nesse per\u00edodo que acompanhamos a sua viagem a Lisboa, para \u201cvigiar\u201d o duque de Windsor (Rei Eduardo VIII de 20/1 a 11/12 de 1936, abdicou por amor) e a sua mulher a \u201cdivorciada\u201d americana Wallis Simpson. \u201cEstavam a viver em casa de um milion\u00e1rio portugu\u00eas chamado Ricardo Esp\u00edrito Santo, em Cascais...\u201d (P\u00e1g. 205) numa descri\u00e7\u00e3o brilhante sobre a zona da Boca do Inferno e a imensid\u00e3o do Oceano Atl\u00e2ntico. \u201cViagem ao Fundo de Um Cora\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d \u00e9 uma viagem inesquec\u00edvel sobre a busca incessante da felicidade e do amor, sobre a ascens\u00e3o e queda, sobre o caos da guerra e as suas dram\u00e1ticas consequ\u00eancias, sobre a problem\u00e1tica e as vicissitudes da paix\u00e3o e do sexo, sobre os efeitos nefastos do \u00e1lcool e da depress\u00e3o, sobre o decl\u00ednio e o envelhecimento - um livro criativo, simultaneamente, dram\u00e1tico e divertido \u2013 altamente recomendado para os \u201camantes\u201d da literatura. \"... viver a vida dentro de horizontes limitados. Estabelecer objectivos modestos, ambi\u00e7\u00f5es alcan\u00e7\u00e1veis. Infelizmente, nem todos n\u00f3s o conseguimos.\" (P\u00e1g. 77) \"Que vida engra\u00e7ada que levaste, Logan.\" (P\u00e1g. 339) Clube de Golfe do Estoril - Portugal ...more I found this book to be different, in style, to others I\u2019ve read by this author. After a a couple of chapters I really wasn\u2019t sure if I liked it at all but by the end I was totally captivated. It\u2019s written as a series of journal (diary) entries and tells the story of a life that\u2019s been lived in every decade of the 20th Century - a life lived very much to the full. Once I got used to the style I found that I was quickly sucked into the life of the character through whose eyes the story is told. S I found this book to be different, in style, to others I\u2019ve read by this author. After a a couple of chapters I really wasn\u2019t sure if I liked it at all but by the end I was totally captivated. It\u2019s written as a series of journal (diary) entries and tells the story of a life that\u2019s been lived in every decade of the 20th Century - a life lived very much to the full. Once I got used to the style I found that I was quickly sucked into the life of the character through whose eyes the story is told. Some parts were truly laugh-out-loud funny (the section where he\u2019s so hard up he starts eating dog food is just brilliant!) and the ending left me truly mourning a character whose whole life had simply been a figment of the writer\u2019s imagination \u2013 very strange. True, there are parts where the intermingling of significant world events, and particularly the way many famous names were dropped in, got a little tiresome and (for me) spoilt the flow of the story, but overall this is a superb read. I kept thinking about the book for days after I finished it. If you haven\u2019t read Boyd before then you really should treat yourself to one of his many outstanding works. And I\u2019d encourage fans of any genre to give this particular tome a try. ...more I\u2019ve never kept a diary myself, but do have admiration for those who do. It seems to me to require a level of dedication that even a humble scribbler of fiction like myself would find hard to maintain. I don\u2019t write every single day, let alone every single evening, and besides I like to make stuff up. The fictional diary then perhaps offers the ideal halfway house for a novelist, allowing the form but without the chore of writing about every single day, no matter how little has actually happened I\u2019ve never kept a diary myself, but do have admiration for those who do. It seems to me to require a level of dedication that even a humble scribbler of fiction like myself would find hard to maintain. I don\u2019t write every single day, let alone every single evening, and besides I like to make stuff up. The fictional diary then perhaps offers the ideal halfway house for a novelist, allowing the form but without the chore of writing about every single day, no matter how little has actually happened. Of course to follow in the footsteps of a Mr Pooter or an Adrian Mole, you need the right character \u2013 and in \u2018Any Human Heart\u2019 William Boyd has created a vivid and compulsive central figure. (And certainly one with more oomph than those literary ancestors I mischievously mentioned). This is a man who is there or thereabouts in exciting times, but is also interesting enough himself to make one care about the minutiae of his life. Logan Mountstuart is a bit like Zelig, or maybe Flashman is the better literary comparison \u2013 a man who meets more than his share of great people and is perched again and again at the edge of history. He is a novelist in the Thirties, then a wartime spy with Ian Fleming, before becoming an art dealer in New York and then an elderly London anarchist. Much like in a Flashman novel there are footnotes showing how real the characters he meets actually are. Not that it\u2019s just a spotter\u2019s guide to The Twentieth Century, but instead manages to be a touching and actually moving examination of the various stages of one character\u2019s life. Some sections do drag more than others \u2013 the African diary, those final years in France \u2013 but I found this a fascinating read, both brilliant for someone who likes Twentieth Century history, but also for fans of well crafted and genuinely affecting fiction. ...more 4.5/5 That was a good life. A good, male life, lived through almost the entirety of the twentieth century. Or at least, it made for good reading material, but I'd like to think that in the end, Logan was happy in the least regretful sense that an old man can be. I have to say, becoming a writer was probably the best thing he could have done in this time period. He met so many renowned folks, and took part in so many historical events as he traveled the world over. That may be my bias towards writ 4.5/5 That was a good life. A good, male life, lived through almost the entirety of the twentieth century. Or at least, it made for good reading material, but I'd like to think that in the end, Logan was happy in the least regretful sense that an old man can be. I have to say, becoming a writer was probably the best thing he could have done in this time period. He met so many renowned folks, and took part in so many historical events as he traveled the world over. That may be my bias towards writing over other occupational paths talking, but you have to admit, people like Hemingway and Joyce popping up made the writing especially interesting. And it was in such a natural, unassuming sense. It's only much later that Logan realizes the worth of these chance meetings, and he never really stops being surprised at that being the case. Besides that, I really don't think that the summary of this book does Logan justice. Yes, he accumulated failed marriages as a result of his womanizing, but had the tragedy of WWII not occurred, I believe that this particular trait would have been greatly reduced in his character. Also he didn't end his life in absolute poverty. Unless my definition of poverty is different from the standard. All in all, I really enjoyed reading about this life that interacted so often with the world at large, both in the historical as well as the locational sense. It was also interesting to watch Logan's writing change over time as his life shifted around his values. His last years were especially beautiful, and it's regretful that he had to become a very old man in order to finally appreciate the simple life enough to write about it. But that's what always happens, I suppose. ...more One sign of a good book is the sense of emptiness that lingers once the last page has been reluctantly turned. So it was with Any Human Heart, which completely and utterly spoiled me for whatever came next*. On finishing the book I found I missed the central character, Logan Mountstuart enormously, as if his death had been the death of someone I knew and loved. Logan, with all his failings, manages to charm and beguile the reader in the way he charmed many who crossed his path. I loved his wit, One sign of a good book is the sense of emptiness that lingers once the last page has been reluctantly turned. So it was with Any Human Heart, which completely and utterly spoiled me for whatever came next*. On finishing the book I found I missed the central character, Logan Mountstuart enormously, as if his death had been the death of someone I knew and loved. Logan, with all his failings, manages to charm and beguile the reader in the way he charmed many who crossed his path. I loved his wit, his humour and, at times, his sheer anarchy and disregard for convention, religion and mediocrity. \u201cShelley was so right, atheism is an absolute necessity in this world of ours. If we are to survive as individuals we can rely only on those resouces provided by our human spirit \u2013 appeals to a deity or deities are only a form of pretence. We might as well howl at the moon.\u201d Despite his tendency towards self-destruction, philandering and doing everything to excess, often to the detriment of himself and those around him, there is something irresistible about Logan. I realise I read a lot of women writer\u2019s and see their world viewed through a female lens but William Boyd gave me an uncensored view of the world (and women) through a man\u2019s eyes, which at times was revealing. I learned a lot about the male libido. I repeatedly found myself sharing his pain, particularly at the devastating (and unexpected loss to him and the reader) of his wife and daughter. Even the death of his dog towards the end of the novel reveals his frailty and compassion and desperate loneliness, without ever being clich\u00e9d or over-sentimental. As Logan\u2019s life, from a teenager to a dying octogenarian, unravels on the pages it\u2019s hard to believe one isn\u2019t reading the diaries of a real person. The meetings with Hemingway, Picasso, Woolf etc all fit seamlessly into the novel, imbuing it with culture and intellectualism without ever any hint of name-dropping contrivance, implausibility or elitism. He poignantly builds a picture of Logan\u2019s life by waylaying and detaining the reader with anecdote upon anecdote. *For me, this Amazon reviewer sums it up: I read pretty much continuously, but was unable to pick up another book for almost two weeks after finishing this - there was no point, I was...replete. It stayed with me for ages - this is the literary equivalent of a nine-course meal with a great bottle of wine. Deeply satisfying. The final pages, when Logan has moved to France are beautifully poignant and evocative. From the New York Times: \u201cIn bereft old age the voice simplifies and deepens: relinquishing his maze of purposes, Logan retains only one or two. He has moved to the Midi, where his penury pinches less and his slender means go farther.\u201d Boyd makes his love of France not only evident but alive. The beauty of place, of light, of manners -- the villagers are tactfully helpful to an old man whom they honor as an \u00e9crivain -- extend Logan's resources far differently than the dog food that stretched his diet in London.\u201d Boyd\u2019s descriptions of food and simple pleasures abound in this novel, his later descriptions of France are sumptuous and, early on, when a young man at Oxford he says\u2026. \u201cAfter morning chapel Peter and I had a couple of free periods so we went into Abbeyhurst and took tea and crumpets at Ma Hingley\u2019s. Hot crumpets with butter and jam \u2013 what could be more ambrosial? The day I can\u2019t enjoy these pleasures will signal some kind of death of the soul.\u201d (p.57) In France about 60 years later: The pleasures of my life here are simple \u2013 simple, inexpensive and democratic. A warm hill of Marmande tomatoes on a roadside vendor\u2019s stall. A cold beer on a pavement table of the Caf\u00e9 de France \u2013 Marie Therese inside making me a sandwich au Camembert. Munching the knob off a fresh baguette as I wander back from Saint-Sabine. The farinaceous smell of the white dust raised by a breeze from the driveway. A cuckoo sounding in the perfectly silent woods beyond the meadow. The huge grey, cerise, pink, orange and washed-out blue of a sunset seen from my rear terrace. The drilling of the cicadas at noon \u2013 the soft dialling tone of the crickets as dusk slowly gathers. A good book, a hammock and a cold, beaded bottle of blanc sec. A rough red wine and steak frites. The cool, dark, shuttered silence of my bedroom \u2013 and as I go to sleep the prospect that all this will be available to me again, unchanged, tomorrow. (p.479) What a stunning passage. I am there, in France, totally. I went to an evening with Boyd at the Groucho Club in 2011, just before the televising of Any Human Heart, and asked him whether he was as pre-occupied with food as his characters appear to be. He told me he uses food as a 'shortcut' to describe his characters, you can tell a lot about a person from what and how they eat, Another sign of a good book is the number of passages I want to remember and revisit (I mark them by turning in the bottom corner of the page) \u2013 this book was replete with them. It remains one of my all-time favourite reads. ...more I finished the book last night, and did not sleep well. What do I feel? Grief. How does one grieve for someone who was not real? Will write up a review after I've had some time to process.... Later .... There is an old adage that what you observe closely you cannot help but love. That is how I feel about Logan Mountstuart. In many ways LMS is an ordinary man who lives in extraordinary times, but he is not the hero of the times he lives in, but rather on the fringes of it. Yes, he travels widely an I finished the book last night, and did not sleep well. What do I feel? Grief. How does one grieve for someone who was not real? Will write up a review after I've had some time to process.... Later .... There is an old adage that what you observe closely you cannot help but love. That is how I feel about Logan Mountstuart. In many ways LMS is an ordinary man who lives in extraordinary times, but he is not the hero of the times he lives in, but rather on the fringes of it. Yes, he travels widely and has encounters with many famous people, but this is really a personal story of one man's life. One that unfolds through intimate journal entries. We first meet LMS when he is teenager, and follow along on all his (mis)adventures, loves, and heartbreaks through to his eighties. Such is the skill of the author, that not only did I get to know LMS, but I grew to love him, and when the book ended, it felt like a much beloved great uncle had died. Yes, grief is what I feel. There is a gap in my life that Logan Mountstuart used to inhabit. He will be greatly missed. A word on the audio production. This story was narrated by the wonderful Simon Vance. The narration is probably the best work by Simon I've heard yet, and that is saying something. He changes the timbre of his narration, so we feel like a young LMS is sharing his secrets with us at the start of the story, and then as LMS ages, Simon's reading gets deeper, more crackly, and elderly. Simply wonderful. I'm not sure why I waited so long to read this one, and if you have yet to read it, I highly recommend the audiobook. I've got my hands on the TV adaptation, and am delighted to be spending some extra time with Logan Mountstuart. ...more I'll write a proper review later maybe, but my initial thoughts - * This book started out as 'just okay' for me - hovering between three stars and four stars, then became a hazy four stars but very near the end marched up to five stars. * I loved Logan. I came to know him and see him subtly change as the years took him from adolescence to an old man. Always full of sprite and character. I laughed with him and I cried with him. * Because of this I now feel a great sense of loss - I'm going to mi I'll write a proper review later maybe, but my initial thoughts - * This book started out as 'just okay' for me - hovering between three stars and four stars, then became a hazy four stars but very near the end marched up to five stars. * I loved Logan. I came to know him and see him subtly change as the years took him from adolescence to an old man. Always full of sprite and character. I laughed with him and I cried with him. * Because of this I now feel a great sense of loss - I'm going to miss him. He is a wise old buzzard that is for sure. Makes you think about your life and what there is to live for. * Logan lived an eventful life - and he had a very human heart - one I feel that has been shared. He was never anyone that important - he just mixed with important people (many names of famous authors and artists crop up here and there) but he remained amongst the ordinary. I feel so much as if I know him and I'm sad to think he is only real in my imagination, not in life. I will keep this book to read again, I feel it would welcome a second read and I don't really want to let go of Logan. He is my friend. I have come to know him, why would I want to lose him? I just want to reach out and hold his hand. I awarded this book five stars because of that. It didn't drag me into it and keep me riveted to each page, eagre to find out what happened next - I didn't want to find out what happened next because I was quite happy to read it for a long time - I didn't want an end really. I'm not left thinking \"Wow I have just read a magnificent book\" as I have done with many other five star books. But I am left feeling such a sense of loss that I have finished it and surprised at how real it felt to me. It's a wonderful, lovely book, I loved every second. And they are making a TV drama of it - for channel four in the UK I believe - with Matthew McFadyan playing Logan during his adult years and Jim Broadbend in his older years. (Can't remember the name of the actor playing his younger self). With Tom Hollander and Samuel West also starring. You can follow the production team on twitter @AnyHumanHeart So glad I read this book and probably wouldn't have done had I not been a bit of a fan of Tom Hollander (who will be playing the Duke of Windsor). Highly recommended. ...more *Note to self* Max out 401k I find it very hard to believe that Logan Mountstuart was not a real person. I googled him several times while I was reading this luscious novel by William Boyd. It must be a biography I argued with myself. I'm sure that Simon Vance's first rate narration contributed to my incredulity. The story was a slow starter for me. I almost didn't get past his football games at school but once I got the rhythm of the novel, I loved every witty minute of it. A highlight for me was *Note to self* Max out 401k I find it very hard to believe that Logan Mountstuart was not a real person. I googled him several times while I was reading this luscious novel by William Boyd. It must be a biography I argued with myself. I'm sure that Simon Vance's first rate narration contributed to my incredulity. The story was a slow starter for me. I almost didn't get past his football games at school but once I got the rhythm of the novel, I loved every witty minute of it. A highlight for me was his posting in the Bahamas during WWII when the Duke and Duchess of Windsor resided there. There is a murder mystery which turns out that Boyd has pretty accurately written about in all material respects. I remember when I was a child, my mother thought the love story of Edward VIII and Wallis Simpson was the greatest ever told. She either didn't tell me or didn't know about the dark side of their Nazi sympathies. Boyd is still writing and I look forward to reading his newest, Sweet Caress But can anything live up to the life and times of LMS? Those who have read Any Human Heart will recognize that my first comment refers to the abject poverty that LMS eventually faces even though he was a prolific writer and born into British aristocracy. We Americans don't find being reduced to this state quite as shocking as the Brits might and in fact it speaks to many of our fears. LMS is a character, richly drawn, who I will not soon forget. Thanks go to Michael Kindness for bringing this book onto my radar. PS. Just finished the BBC series and I'm mad that it ended differently. ...more This is not my favorite book, this is not the most lofty book I've ever read, its not going to break into the top ten list (although I think it has become cemented into the top 20) However, It was a total page turner that kept me up late and wishing my subway rides would last longer but some how managed to feel important and slightly intellectual at the same time. It was amazing and I'm afraid to even recommend it because if you don't love it as much as I did it will break my heart. There are man This is not my favorite book, this is not the most lofty book I've ever read, its not going to break into the top ten list (although I think it has become cemented into the top 20) However, It was a total page turner that kept me up late and wishing my subway rides would last longer but some how managed to feel important and slightly intellectual at the same time. It was amazing and I'm afraid to even recommend it because if you don't love it as much as I did it will break my heart. There are many things about this book that just shouldn't work- how is this seemingly slightly above average guy some how involved with half of the major events of the 20th century? How can a dairy format possibly create such strong characters and engaging dialogue? Isn't he just a tad pretensions? William Boyd manages to overcome all of these problems and create an interesting and somehow utterly believable main character. If you like books that feature disgruntled British writers, famous modern artists and authors, World War II and British History, sexual encounters mixed with some unrequited love and loss, then you will likely be interested in this book. If, like me, you love all of the above then you will be obsessed with this book. For a plot summary or things of that nature check out other Goodreads reviews or amazon. I just had to share a few thoughts on this book just in case you are waiting to read it and will absolutely adore it but just don't know it yet! ...more I'd been putting this off - or saving it. Either way I had intended to read it on holiday at the end of April, the reason being that I thought it would be a tough book to tackle; not difficult or unenjoyable, but the sort of thing I would need lots of time and proper concentration to really appreciate. However, a few days ago my Kindle broke and, with nothing else available while I wait for it to be replaced, I decided to get stuck in to Any Human Heart . I soon realised that - as with Fingersmit I'd been putting this off - or saving it. Either way I had intended to read it on holiday at the end of April, the reason being that I thought it would be a tough book to tackle; not difficult or unenjoyable, but the sort of thing I would need lots of time and proper concentration to really appreciate. However, a few days ago my Kindle broke and, with nothing else available while I wait for it to be replaced, I decided to get stuck in to Any Human Heart . I soon realised that - as with Fingersmith , another one I thought dauntingly lengthy but raced through in a matter of days - I had completely underestimated how readable this book would be. It's a big, meaty tome, and certainly an intelligent read, but nevertheless it is an incredibly easy book to enjoy. This is partly down to the narrative format; it's written as a series of journals, charting the life of Logan Mountstuart - journalist, novelist, spy, prisoner, art dealer; lover, husband, father, divorc\u00e9, widower - from his schooldays to the weeks preceding his death. This journey takes the reader from the mid-1920s to the cusp of the 1990s, with so many different international settings I am struggling to remember all of them. There is also an incredible cast of characters, including the many famous names (writers, artists etc) and public figures (most notably the Duke and Duchess of Windsor) Logan encounters during his career(s). As many others have observed, the narrative is incredibly convincing and authentic. It's only now I've finished the book that I can see how brilliantly Boyd has adapted Logan's voice throughout the different periods of his life. The character's writing constantly evolves, but the change is just that - evolution - absolutely recognisable as the same person, yet subtly developing and adjusting all the time. Reading this made me want to start keeping a paper journal (something I did obsessively in youth but very sporadically now) again. The relationships, too, are painfully realistic. I kept expecting Land to reappear in Logan's life, right up to the very end, but of course she didn't; if this had been a different (lesser?) book, they would have reunited and found their happy ending in old age, or something. Logan's loveless marriage to Lottie, his never-equalled love for Freya, his unfulfilling relationship with Allanah - all (well, most - I wasn't sure about the Monday episode, the only incident in the book that felt like a plot device to move the protagonist from one place to another) his interactions are wholly believable. Friends change beyond all recognition; people come in and out of Logan's life, some re-entering unexpectedly; little incidents happen that have nothing to do with anything else; there are surprises, some of them wonderful, some devastating - the stuff of life. It's simultaenously life-affirming, heartbreakingly sad, and funny (I couldn't stop laughing at the elderly Logan's assessment of his hospital ward-mate 'No-Fuss'). Do I give this four or five stars? I'm going to go with four, as on a personal level I don't think it will rank with my own absolute favourites, though it is technically 'better' than a number of them. But it's a qualified four, a 9 rather than an 8 out of 10. I don't think I will read the book again in its entirety, but I'm certain I will return to it, if only for the beautifully written, poignant, and inspiring diarised style. (NB: I haven't seen the recent TV adaptation; not sure I want to, as the book created such vivid images in my mind and I feel they are sufficient.) ...more Didn't really like it. It's written as a diary, and covers a good chunk of the 20th century. Logan, the diarist, didn't compel me in the slightest, he was flat. Although he experienced some exciting things in his life, from meeting Hemingway and Picasso, to being imprisoned as a spy, I found him boring. I did read it through, which is something.... I kept hoping to start caring about him. But I never did. Perhaps it's the diary form that disagreed with me--I think it may be the first of that sty Didn't really like it. It's written as a diary, and covers a good chunk of the 20th century. Logan, the diarist, didn't compel me in the slightest, he was flat. Although he experienced some exciting things in his life, from meeting Hemingway and Picasso, to being imprisoned as a spy, I found him boring. I did read it through, which is something.... I kept hoping to start caring about him. But I never did. Perhaps it's the diary form that disagreed with me--I think it may be the first of that style that I've read. ...more An intimate journal of Logan Gonzalo Mountstuart (LMS) and a life...well, lived. The writing is captivating, 70 odd years of escapades, heartbreak, moderate promiscuity and lots of alcohol. The sliding doors of his life, traversing the 20th century are reminiscent of Forest Gump (sans the low IQ) with some characters just as i imagined (Hemingway \u2013 drunk, impulsive, the Duke and Duchess of Windsor \u2013 vapid, vain), and others not so much \u2013 (Virginia Woolf as a florid racist?) Like, I suppose, most An intimate journal of Logan Gonzalo Mountstuart (LMS) and a life...well, lived. The writing is captivating, 70 odd years of escapades, heartbreak, moderate promiscuity and lots of alcohol. The sliding doors of his life, traversing the 20th century are reminiscent of Forest Gump (sans the low IQ) with some characters just as i imagined (Hemingway \u2013 drunk, impulsive, the Duke and Duchess of Windsor \u2013 vapid, vain), and others not so much \u2013 (Virginia Woolf as a florid racist?) Like, I suppose, most folks born early in the last century, WWII was defining. For LMS it was a disaster. Its absurdity and malevolent chaos taking from him, like it did for millions, everything. It seems sometimes as though his level of loss and pain was beyond the credible; and other times, so, his good fortune and timing. But what a fantastic story! The details are recorded with integrity, from the droll (pg. 283 - \u201cMother says her varicose veins cause her continual pain. Encarnacion is suffering from piles. I go to the optician to be fitted for reading glasses. The house of mirth.\u201d) to the educational (pg 464 If conversation lags at a cocktails / dinner party \u2013 \u201c...just tell lies. Say, to the woman on your right, 'I suffer appallingly from insomnia, how do you sleep?' Or confess that your wife's ex-husband has threatened to kill you...It always works, he says. Say you knew someone in a recent air crash, or that you heard that a member of the Royal Family was converting to Islam. Most dinner-party conversations are so boring that you'll have an avid audience for the duration. Never fails', he said\u201d). Indelibly English (although born in Montevideo), he is fleetingly happy, but primarily uncomfortable (note the \u201cdog food years\u201d) when living on \u201cPudding Island\u201d. Even in places he has lived for years his noting of particulars (without unnecessary comment) felt just right, as in this wonderful and typically African detail: pg. 380 \u2013 (in Nigeria\u2026) \u201cOne metalled road comes into this roundabout and the same one leaves. Other junctions that would have given the roundabout a real function have yet to be created.\u201d Much like life \u2013 this tale was over too soon; the 400+ pages felt too short. Makes one want to keep a journal; not about world events (unless you were there) but about the sky and love and the ocean. Highly recommended. ...more The language isn't difficult, but this is one of those books that needs 100 pages of your patience, because it takes that long for the small devices of the voice to take effect. Once they do, the last 400 pages zip along. It's presented as though it were a posthumously published series of diary entries--NOT a memoir. This matters because the central appeal is the voice of a writer (Logan Mountstuart) talking candidly to himself, rather than positioning his experiences for public view. The attract The language isn't difficult, but this is one of those books that needs 100 pages of your patience, because it takes that long for the small devices of the voice to take effect. Once they do, the last 400 pages zip along. It's presented as though it were a posthumously published series of diary entries--NOT a memoir. This matters because the central appeal is the voice of a writer (Logan Mountstuart) talking candidly to himself, rather than positioning his experiences for public view. The attraction of Mountstuart plainly delivering what happened, complete with his reactions at the time--flawed, ugly, comic, endearing, and/or puzzling--only grows as the book progresses. It's telling that the two organizing principles of the diary are his experiences with women and the passage of time taking its toll on his body, and it's all the more fun because he knows he's self-absorbed (it's a diary, after all) and preoccupied with sex and death. It's also clever that Boyd figures out how to maintain Mountstuart's fundamental character even as experience softens the edges--he's bratty/frustrated and funny in school, a sex-addled wrecking ball in his twenties, an interesting cad rescued by love in his thirties, and a figure in shades of gray thereafter, one whose humor seems to sharpen. So yes, it takes a while to get rolling, and I'll throw in a second minor gripe--I could have lived without all the namedropping (Hemingway, Picasso, the Duke of Windsor, etc.) and history-hopping (interestingly, Boyd seems to acknowledge this when Mountstuart briefly muses about men on the moon in 1969, set against the problem of autobiographical writing, about three quarters of the way through). Then again, Any Human Heart is a good counterargument for those readers who won't go on if they can't root for the main character. Mountstuart is neither a hero nor a baddie, and the book expands wonderfully on the challenge of the title. We get an unvarnished look at a long, interesting life. It's a good read, if you give it the time. ...more Every time I close a book I like to question myself about the most powerful images in it. In this one there were at least three: the announcement of Logan's father death, made by an insensitive principal (the Lizard) who explains that this is the only motive for not expelling the narrator and who hits him hard, on the same occasion, for breaking some school rules; the way the hero dresses up for a meeting with a friend in order not to be suspected that he is so poor that he eats dog-food; and th Every time I close a book I like to question myself about the most powerful images in it. In this one there were at least three: the announcement of Logan's father death, made by an insensitive principal (the Lizard) who explains that this is the only motive for not expelling the narrator and who hits him hard, on the same occasion, for breaking some school rules; the way the hero dresses up for a meeting with a friend in order not to be suspected that he is so poor that he eats dog-food; and the death of the old dog of even an older Logan who howls the loss of the last being that loved him. The book is built around a well-known motive: the manuscript found after the death of his author. The impression of authenticity is sustained by other narrative tools as well: the footnotes that explain various events or characters; the \"editor notes\" that fill in the gaps in the diary; the celebrities who become characters: Hemingway, Virginia Woolf, Picasso etc. Logan Mountstuart's diary covers more than a half-century of his life, and of course, the personal layer (the life and struggles of a writer) is plaited with the social layer (the mirror of that fascinant society before and after the Second World War). The ability of the writer to give life to his character and the world around him is amazing, and while reading you often have to remember that this is not a documentary, but a work of fiction. ...more Can any single human heart take in all the history of the twentieth century? Any Human Heart is a story of one such heart which could hold within almost all the crucial event of this turbulent age. And the story is as sorrowful and rich as was the history of the century\u2026 But there is always hope. \u201cAnd suddenly I wonder: is it more of my bad luck to have been born when I was, at the beginning of this century and not be able to be young at its end? I look enviously at these kids and think about the Can any single human heart take in all the history of the twentieth century? Any Human Heart is a story of one such heart which could hold within almost all the crucial event of this turbulent age. And the story is as sorrowful and rich as was the history of the century\u2026 But there is always hope. \u201cAnd suddenly I wonder: is it more of my bad luck to have been born when I was, at the beginning of this century and not be able to be young at its end? I look enviously at these kids and think about the lives they are living \u2013 and will live \u2013 and posit a kind of future for them. And then, almost immediately, I think what a futile regret that is. You must live the life you have been given. In sixty years\u2019 time, if these boys and girls are lucky enough, they will be old men and women looking at the new generation of bright boys and girls and wishing that time had not fled by\u2026\u201d It is impossible to pain such a panoramic canvas specklessly but all inventiveness and colourfulness of the plot far outweigh all the minuscule speckles in the lush narration. ...more It was with great sadness that I finished \"Any Human Heart\" last night. I feel like I have lost a dear friend in LMS (Logan Mounstuart.) LMS is one of the most human and sympathetic characters I have enjoyed getting to know. I think most who have read of him would agree he could be a real ass. But somehow I can overlook this because of his great capacity to love and to reflect so honestly on his life. From LMS I have learned that life can be a series of good and bad luck events. It is up to me t It was with great sadness that I finished \"Any Human Heart\" last night. I feel like I have lost a dear friend in LMS (Logan Mounstuart.) LMS is one of the most human and sympathetic characters I have enjoyed getting to know. I think most who have read of him would agree he could be a real ass. But somehow I can overlook this because of his great capacity to love and to reflect so honestly on his life. From LMS I have learned that life can be a series of good and bad luck events. It is up to me to decide how to manage through them. I loved the journal format of writing that William Boyd used. At the end of the book I was actually questioning whether LMS was a real person even though I knew this was a work of fiction. Also it was interesting to view the events of the 20th century through Boyd's character. I'm looking forward to reading \"The New Confessions,\" also by Boyd. I understand that LMS is mentioned in the book. I'm looking forward to that! ...more This book was like meeting a friend - a friend that as soon as you meet them it feels like you were already friends forever and how is it possible you hadn't really met before? Any Human Heart is the story of Logan Gonzago Mountstuart told through his journals spanning from his public school days in England through his eighties in France. His life is full of everything from the tedious days of his first marriage to his exciting days as a spy during the war, full of famous acquaintances (Hemingwa This book was like meeting a friend - a friend that as soon as you meet them it feels like you were already friends forever and how is it possible you hadn't really met before? Any Human Heart is the story of Logan Gonzago Mountstuart told through his journals spanning from his public school days in England through his eighties in France. His life is full of everything from the tedious days of his first marriage to his exciting days as a spy during the war, full of famous acquaintances (Hemingway! Picasso!) and the various women he loved and lost. William Boyd has created a complete and believable fully formed person in Logan - a person that I may not always agree with or understand but one that I easily fell in love with and never wanted to leave. ...more This is the Boyd's book it took me the longest to get into. And, to be honest, even after semi reluctantly plowing through its bulk I can't say that I loved it and I certainly wasn't in love with it. (Particularly the school years, for example, were of almost no interest. Prewar years weren't that exciting either for the most part.) It was a more sedated and logical respect and appreciation for Boyd's mastery, eloquence and skill, which are all strikingly evident here once the reader gets past t This is the Boyd's book it took me the longest to get into. And, to be honest, even after semi reluctantly plowing through its bulk I can't say that I loved it and I certainly wasn't in love with it. (Particularly the school years, for example, were of almost no interest. Prewar years weren't that exciting either for the most part.) It was a more sedated and logical respect and appreciation for Boyd's mastery, eloquence and skill, which are all strikingly evident here once the reader gets past the essentially unlikeable protagonist (and this is quite difficult to do, particularly with an epistolary novel since this is essentially a fictional memoir). Or maybe an antihero is a more apt designation. Point is, in my experience, Boyd isn't actually known for creating particularly likeable characters, although this one is still notably frustrating at times. No, what the author can and has done superbly is create an utterly credible fictional biography and the way this faux life is interweaved into an elaborate and expansive web of 20th century real history, events and individuals is stunningly impressive, not to mention terrifically clever. And so, after a while, even an occasionally sententious, tedious and callous Logan Mountstuart becomes someone you can care about as life batters him decade after decade with few real highs and too many everyday lows, through love affairs, war, literary success, obscurity, poverty, adventures, places, times and continents. (Despite some constant motifs like ego, love of drink, early epicureanism and so on, the man does mature with a solid and believable character arc). And you'll come to see that he was never meant to be a hero, but he is the hero of his life and what an interesting life it was indeed. Maybe the optimal way to view Logan is as a sort of human lens through which a history of a century can be viewed, especially the artistic and literary scenes from prewar Europe to midcentury USA. This is, in fact, a veritable literati delight in that respect. And then there are some passages, some meditations on human condition that are so lovely, poignant and astute...it reminds (or shows for new readers) you of just how good Boyd is of a writer. How worthy of award nominations. And apparently a BBC adaptation. Occasionally frustrating (down to footnotes, I understand the need for footnotes, it adds realism to the concept, but I dislike them), but ultimately a worthy read. Slightly shy of a magnum opus. ...more One of the most engrossing novels I've ever read. I am really enjoying reading William Boyd ... Now onto another. But I don't have the heart to love you. Not the way you want me to. Rich/Friedman, \"I Don't Have the Heart,\" 1989. 3.4 stars. A novel, most intriguing for its style, was an appealing trip through time in nine journaux intimes spanning 68 years. It was, by turns, naive, horny, loving, loyal, immensely sad, poignant, depressing, melancholic and hopeful. Overall though, it was not quite as moving or profound as I expected or hoped. The book opens with a quotation from the Prince of Loving Passion H But I don't have the heart to love you. Not the way you want me to. Rich/Friedman, \"I Don't Have the Heart,\" 1989. 3.4 stars. A novel, most intriguing for its style, was an appealing trip through time in nine journaux intimes spanning 68 years. It was, by turns, naive, horny, loving, loyal, immensely sad, poignant, depressing, melancholic and hopeful. Overall though, it was not quite as moving or profound as I expected or hoped. The book opens with a quotation from the Prince of Loving Passion Henry James (to some, \"Grandma James\" or \"Lady Jame\"): \"Never say you know the last word about any human heart.\" Subtitled The Intimate Journals of Logan Mountstuart , Boyd wrote the novel in the diary form, as a lifelong series of journals kept by Logan Mountstuart, a writer who lived from 1906 to 1991, as he passed through many defining episodes of the 20th century, traveled over continents, had many relationships and engaged in literary endeavors. A British \"man of letters,\" an intelligent, literary Forrest Gump, who is introduced to several real writers, including Virginia Woolf, James Joyce, Papa Hemingway and even has what may have been a sexual encounter with Evelyn Waugh at Oxford. This style portrays the changing self or the multiplicity of selves of a person over the years, as each of the 9 journals is written in the present 1st person: nine journaux intimes that Mountstuart kept from 17 until near his death at the age of 85. Such French literary journals are manytimes very candid and Mountstuart's included his sexual relationships, including his three marriages, his first sexual encounter with his best friend's wife, masturbation, and hired prostitutes. The gaps in time between journals expose obvious contradictions between one self and a later self of Mountstuart. As Mountstuart explains, \"We keep a journal to entrap the collection of selves that forms us, the individual human being.\" Boyd himself described in an interview his thesis that \"we are an anthology, a composite of many selves.\" Thus, while an individual's fundamental nature remains relatively static, she moves in and out of happiness, health and loves, with wisdom being slowly gained. A journal is \"written without the benefit of hindsight, so there isn't the same feeling you get when you look back and add shape to a life. There are huge chunks missing.\" The time covered and the plethora of sexual relationships makes nearly impossible the task of providing a synopsis of the plot. ...more<---C>William  Boyd</---C>", "Title": "Any Human Heart"},
