{"Comments": "I bought this book at a consignment shop for a dollar because I thought both the cover and title were intriguing. AND...<---F>it was okay</---F>. The story takes place in sixteenth century rural Germany at a time when Christianity is slowly replacing,<---M> or rather merging with</---M>, pagan traditions. The story is told by Gude, an aging widow, who is probably suffering from something like Alzheimers further complicated by inadequate nutrition. As such Gude's narrative is completely rational and lucid at one moment and d I bought this book at a consignment shop for a dollar because I thought both the cover and title were intriguing. AND...it was okay. The story takes place in sixteenth century rural Germany at a time when Christianity is slowly replacing, or rather merging with, pagan traditions. The story is told by Gude, an aging widow, who is probably suffering from something like Alzheimers further complicated by inadequate nutrition. As such Gude's narrative is completely rational and lucid at one moment and downright ridiculous at the next. Okay, I get it...she's suffering from some age related disease. The problem is as the reader you must determine what is \"really\" happening and what is only happening in Gude's mind. It just didn't work for me as I felt it was distancing and a barrier to connecting with the main character. The plot, which revolves around a \"witch\" hunt is solid, though I felt it moved a little too slowly in the beginning. This is partly because of the long passages describing Gude's hallucinations, which did little to move the story forward. To the contrary, they dragged it down. I also felt the characters were stiff and somewhat contrived, rough sketches of characters with very little depth or substance rather than fully flushed out characters that come alive throughout the course of the story. As a reader who values strong, vivid characters this was a huge bummer for me. However, Mailman does deliver on the ending, which invites the reader to reflect on the fine line between superstition and religion...if one even exists. It certainly plays out the witch hunt theme to its fullest potential, offering both a tragic injustice right alongside a warped sort of cosmic justice. Oh, and I love the word \"rutting,\" a term for sex. I thought the sexual practices of the village (like the entire town watching as a newly married couple consummated the marriage) were quite interesting and I am curious to know if Mailman based her descriptions of these socio-cultural tidbits on factual texts or simply made them up. I'm not sure I would recommend this book unless, like me, you enjoy historical fiction and happen to come across it for a dollar. However, if witch hunts are your thing and you don't mind the weaknesses I've mentioned, this might be a book for you. ...more It's so rare to find a first-person book told from the perspective of an elder woman. Novels about the witch hunts of Europe are particularly compelling given the high percentage of women, especially older women, who were killed as witches. To read a novel where the action takes place through the eyes of such an elder was emotionally wrenching. The most effective part of the book was the depiction of how younger women were so quick to turn on the old, and how though the punishment was meted out It's so rare to find a first-person book told from the perspective of an elder woman. Novels about the witch hunts of Europe are particularly compelling given the high percentage of women, especially older women, who were killed as witches. To read a novel where the action takes place through the eyes of such an elder was emotionally wrenching. The most effective part of the book was the depiction of how younger women were so quick to turn on the old, and how though the punishment was meted out by men, it was women who helped literally and figuratively fuel the fire of the hunts. ...more <---A>Erika Mailman</---A>'s novel about witch burnings in 1507 Germany is so compelling you'll feel like you can smell the smoke from the pyre. It's also a vivid reminder of what happens when religious leaders twist the tenets of their faiths for their own evil agendas. This is historical fiction that turns out to be remarkably timely. Wonderful historical novel centred around a village in 16th century Germany. The 'church' rides in brandishing its crosses and hoping for the torture and murder of poor women accused of witchcraft. By preying on poor people's ignorance they soon have their victims in the elderly 'wise woman' and her friend. This novel highlights the misogynism and methods of fear the church have used throughout the centuries to control the masses. The story centres around Gude, an elderly woman whose daughter in Wonderful historical novel centred around a village in 16th century Germany. The 'church' rides in brandishing its crosses and hoping for the torture and murder of poor women accused of witchcraft. By preying on poor people's ignorance they soon have their victims in the elderly 'wise woman' and her friend. This novel highlights the misogynism and methods of fear the church have used throughout the centuries to control the masses. The story centres around Gude, an elderly woman whose daughter in law soon accuses her of witchcraft in the hope of there being one less mouth to feed. This is one of those books to make you think and to make you feel. ...more A haunting tale of paranoia and fanaticism. Human nature can be strange. The mentality of a mob for example, shows how brutal people can become when surrounded by others who are filled with passionate anger. Erika Mailman shows us through the eyes of an elderly woman what it would have been like to live in the Middle Ages when witchcraft was thought to be the cause of any misfortune. The famine described in this small village of Tierkinddorf, Germany is haunting. It made me feel strange reading the A haunting tale of paranoia and fanaticism. Human nature can be strange. The mentality of a mob for example, shows how brutal people can become when surrounded by others who are filled with passionate anger. Erika Mailman shows us through the eyes of an elderly woman what it would have been like to live in the Middle Ages when witchcraft was thought to be the cause of any misfortune. The famine described in this small village of Tierkinddorf, Germany is haunting. It made me feel strange reading the novel while having my lunch. I began to feel guilty knowing that the characters were willing to accuse others of witchcraft just to get a bite to eat. A scapegoat was needed to place all the blame of the village's misfortune. It was thought that then, all things would revert back to days of plenty. That the famine would end. The paranoia, the suspicion, the opportunity to point the finger of blame at someone whom you bear a grudge. An accusation of milk spoiling was enough to damn someone to being burned to death, and you didn't even have to bring forth the spoiled milk as evidence. Your word was enough, if coupled with other such scurrilous complaints, to condemn someone to death. Given today's sensibilities the thought of public execution is abhorrent. However, it is a gruesome part of our history that drawing and quarterings, beheadings, hangings, and burning at the stake were all done in the village square to serve as a lesson to all. Beware or it may happen to you. <+++>The Witch's Trinity</+++> is a potent tale whose ending surprised me. I highly recommend it. ...more I have read a lot of novels within the horror genre, but Erika Mailman\u2019s work of historical-fiction, The Witch\u2019s Trinity , is one of the most horrific, terrifying, and powerful pieces I have ever read. Less than 300 pages, this book encapsulates the potential of evil within us as a species, and exemplifies the kinds of atrocities we \u2013 as human beings \u2013 are able and willing to commit against one another. It is in this point that the book and its story are relevant; though the novel is set during t I have read a lot of novels within the horror genre, but Erika Mailman\u2019s work of historical-fiction, The Witch\u2019s Trinity , is one of the most horrific, terrifying, and powerful pieces I have ever read. Less than 300 pages, this book encapsulates the potential of evil within us as a species, and exemplifies the kinds of atrocities we \u2013 as human beings \u2013 are able and willing to commit against one another. It is in this point that the book and its story are relevant; though the novel is set during the first decade of the 16th century, the same kinds of atrocities have plagued the 20th and 21st. I would eagerly recommend this book to anyone interested in the darker aspects of history, and especially to those interested in the notorious witch trials of 17th century Salem. I would suspect that most Americans view the Salem Witch Trials as an isolated instance of hysteria that still acts as a shameful blemish on the face of this country\u2019s history, but the facts do not corroborate this mistaken belief. In reality, the Salem Witch Trials of 1692 mark the end of a 150-year period of intense frenzy and persecution throughout most of the Old World: what historians have come to affectionately refer to as the Witch Craze, or the Burning Times. The events of Salem must be viewed and understood within this larger persecutory context if our understanding of them is to be rich, meaningful, and complete. There are two aspects that make this book, in my humble opinion, superb. Firstly, it serves as an excellent introduction to one of the most interesting, notorious, and horrendous books ever published, Malleus Maleficarum . Published 20 years (1487) before the events in The Witch\u2019s Trinity take place (1507), the Malleus Maleficarum was the definitive work used by all witch hunters and magistrates of the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries. The novel uses quotes from the Malleus Maleficarum to introduce every chapter as a kind of preliminary theme, and Mailman begins her book by inserting the Papal Bull issued by Pope Innocent VIII inaugurating the creation of the Malleus Maleficarum . Hopefully, Mailman\u2019s novel will encourage people to delve deeper into the history of the European Witch Craze by sparking their interest in reading one of history\u2019s most infamous books. Secondly, The Witch\u2019s Trinity examines a unique process that we anthropologists have dubbed scapegoating . Most novels I have read concerning witch trials \u2013 especially the Salem Witch Trials \u2013 deal primarily with the details of the events themselves, and not the overall context that unifies them into a cohesive whole. Scapegoating is the process by which cohesive groups of individuals make sense of and cope with the \u201cterror of history,\u201d and in doing so, create a communal catharsis that allows for continued cohabitation. Believe it or not, Mailman conveys the essence of this process in less than 300 pages!!! My advice to everyone out there: Read this book Feel ashamed of our collective past DON\u2019T LET IT HAPPEN AGAIN ...more What a strange book, that I thoroughly enjoyed. This book was a perfect fairy tale/historical fiction all rolled into one. I really loved it. I felt like I got a true sense of what life would be like in the early 1500's in Germany, and a really really good sense of what witch trials would have been like to witness and experience. I love that the book wraps up nicely without leaving any loose ends. Very exciting story, and a very believable ending. I hope to be able to read more by Mailmain in th What a strange book, that I thoroughly enjoyed. This book was a perfect fairy tale/historical fiction all rolled into one. I really loved it. I felt like I got a true sense of what life would be like in the early 1500's in Germany, and a really really good sense of what witch trials would have been like to witness and experience. I love that the book wraps up nicely without leaving any loose ends. Very exciting story, and a very believable ending. I hope to be able to read more by Mailmain in the future. It blurred the line between reality and dream - and I'm still wondering where the line is, and if the main character's mind could be trusted. Could things be explained with hunger pangs/senility and dreams... I like the language of this book. It's very well done and draws you right into 16th century Germanic people. I also love the interplay between Christianity and the older spirituality that pre-existed it. I love that they pray to the Christian God, but always do so facing the West as they did in ancient times. I love the sign the main character makes to be thankful for the rabbit her son hunts. I love the \"witch's song\" she hears in her mind...\"By craft and false pretenses...\" (page 93) I love how the author immerses us in the culture and traditions of the people she writes about. Many of the scenes in the book are very graphic (especially the burning at the stake scene) so be aware. Picked this one up randomly at my local library...wasn't sure what to expect. And so far, 1/2 way through, I really like it. \"I didn't know what I thought of heaven above us or hell deep below, the fires supposed to be constantly stoked and tended. I was afraid to tell her what I feared: that both places were kingdoms of air...And for all the praying I've done in my life, I fear that prayers are bits of grain the birds drop to the wind.\" (page 246) ...more Hysteria, paranoia, jealousy, and false accusations. You get all those emotions and actions in this book, with a few sprinklings of happy memories and hope in one bleak situation after another. I do have to say, though - there was one scene that actually had me cringing and worried about losing my lunch. Erika Mailman described the scene - removal of bandages after the stone test - in such a way that I felt every tear of skin, heard every scream, and smelled each new smell. I probably would have Hysteria, paranoia, jealousy, and false accusations. You get all those emotions and actions in this book, with a few sprinklings of happy memories and hope in one bleak situation after another. I do have to say, though - there was one scene that actually had me cringing and worried about losing my lunch. Erika Mailman described the scene - removal of bandages after the stone test - in such a way that I felt every tear of skin, heard every scream, and smelled each new smell. I probably would have enjoyed the book a lot more if I could have found one character that I liked. I liked Gude in the beginning, but quickly grew tired of her \"visions\" and uncertainty. I definitely despised Irmeltrude, even as I tried to understand her conniving ways, and just couldn't bring myself to care for either child or Jost, the husband, until near the end. ...more I was wandering the store looking for something to read, and I was considering An American Dream by Norman Mailer , but then this book caught my eye. It is told from the point of view of an old woman in a little German village in the late 1500's. She lives with her son, his wife, and their daughter and son. They are in their second year of no harvest and a friar comes from a bigger city to find the witch that has caused the blight. Fearing her daughter will accuse her to get rid of a mouth to f I was wandering the store looking for something to read, and I was considering An American Dream by Norman Mailer , but then this book caught my eye. It is told from the point of view of an old woman in a little German village in the late 1500's. She lives with her son, his wife, and their daughter and son. They are in their second year of no harvest and a friar comes from a bigger city to find the witch that has caused the blight. Fearing her daughter will accuse her to get rid of a mouth to feed, certain events cause Gude to wonder if she is guilty anyway... ...more <+++>The Witch's Trinity</+++> seems to have been written in part as a reaction to the author's discovery that she had ancestress accused of witchcraft (she beat the charge, twice). In many ways, it is similar to that great novel written in response to the witchcraft trials, The Scarlet Letter . In his book, Hawthorne mediates on sin and what constitutes the worst sin. He presents us with a trinity of sins (Hester's, Dimmesdale's, and Chillingworth's). He looks at how the society of the time, how the reader, The Witch's Trinity seems to have been written in part as a reaction to the author's discovery that she had ancestress accused of witchcraft (she beat the charge, twice). In many ways, it is similar to that great novel written in response to the witchcraft trials, The Scarlet Letter . In his book, Hawthorne mediates on sin and what constitutes the worst sin. He presents us with a trinity of sins (Hester's, Dimmesdale's, and Chillingworth's). He looks at how the society of the time, how the reader, and how the writer all view these sins. Mailman is less concerned about sin, and more concerned about people. Yet, despite it's German setting, it bares a strong resemblance to Hawthorne's work. The central character in Mailman's book is an older woman. The whole story is told from the perspective of Gude who at the start of the novel is only one of two people left from her generation. Gude's village is living though a multi year famine. There is little food. Gude's daughter-in-law, Irmeltrud, resents her because of Gude's inability to do heavy work as well as the presence of another mouth to feed. Into this stressful situation comes a friar looking for a witch or witches to burn. And it\u2019s medieval Europe. There are two things that prevent Mailman's work from simply being one of those poor innocent persecuted woman gets to nail it to the bastards story. The first is the fact that the story is written in such away that we cannot be entirely sure of what we are being told. Gude freely admits her mind roams. Is she dreaming or experiencing witchcraft? Did some things really happen? While this does not alienate the reader from Gude, it does make her a somewhat less than 100% trustworthy reporter. The other element is very similar to Hawthorne. Mailman puts the reader in the position of reluctant judge. While no woman would want Irmeltrud for a daughter-in-law, it is difficult to be too harsh on her. Is she likable? Not really. But can I say that I would act any different if I had to watch my two children starve to death? No, I can't (I'm not a mother, but could any mother?). Though her use of the historical famines, Mailman also subtlety refers to \u201cHansel and Gretel\u201d. After all, children were abandoned in times of famine, that fairy tale has roots in truth (and in the original, it was mommy dearest, not evil stepmother). It is though the trials and accusations in the book that Mailman hearkens closest to Hawthorne. The great thing about Letter is that Hawthorne didn't say anyone was innocent. While it is true that today, we wouldn't see Hester's sin as a sin, it is important to remember that the reader is suppose to Hester as a woman who has sinned. (This was the problem with that god awful movie version with Oldman. It totally chucked the sin part, and turned Hester into a feminist. Right, sure. Cause that's far more interesting). Mailman does the same thing. Gude is a good person, but she, like the rest of the village, gets caught up in the accusation hysteria (and it comes back to bite her). Like Hester, though, Gude is the first member of the village to realize the horror of what happened. Gude (like Hester) learns. (My one complaint is that the ending is a bit too PC, but not entirely unbelievably so). Mailman offers in this book, a mediation on why people act the way they do, on how hysteria sets in and cannot be controlled. She keeps the story controlled. There is no one real total villain. The closest one gets is the friar, yet there is his performance in the end, and Frau Zweig, whose motivations have reason. It is a more studied fictional look at the witchcraft craze without the comfortably illusion of black and white. ...more This is a grim book, though its bleakness is mitigated somewhat by its short length. At under 300 pages, The Witch's Trinity offers a nightmarish parable rather than an epic, and in my opinion is just the right length, as any more story would likely be too depressing to take. As it is, the book is entertaining in its delivery and fascinating in its layered message. The story takes place in 16th century Germany, in a small village wracked by famine. The narrator is an elderly woman named Gude who This is a grim book, though its bleakness is mitigated somewhat by its short length. At under 300 pages, The Witch's Trinity offers a nightmarish parable rather than an epic, and in my opinion is just the right length, as any more story would likely be too depressing to take. As it is, the book is entertaining in its delivery and fascinating in its layered message. The story takes place in 16th century Germany, in a small village wracked by famine. The narrator is an elderly woman named Gude who has lived beyond her working years and is dependent upon her desperate, hungry family. An itinerant friar arrives at the village, ostensibly to cure their spiritual ills and bring prosperity back to their fields. As proof, he offers the latest literature on the subject as his guide: the Malleus Maleficarum. What follows is Gude's increasingly frantic attempts to keep herself and her grandchildren safe as the villagers fall upon one another to root out the witch, spurred on by encouragements, threats, and bribes by the friar. As she attempts to separate disturbing visions in the forest from the tricks of her increasingly senile mind, she also fights (as far as she knows) for her own soul's salvation, as well. On the surface, this is a powerful witch-hunt story, told with exquisite historical detail and imbued with the right amount of suspense and horror (both supernatural and all too familiar). However, just as with similar stories before it, The Witch's Trinity hints at deeper, more disturbing themes. Of particular note are the lengths one will go to in order to protect their family and themselves, the consequences of adhering blindly to doctrine, and how the evils humans will visit upon one another are the same regardless of what religion is used to justify them. The specter of starvation is a much more oppressive force than that of witchcraft in this book, and drives the story to terrifying effect. I think there are messages in this book that are particularly timely and prescient. Even aside from that, however, this book grew on me, and I thought about it for days after I finished reading it. It is both a quick and engaging read, and I would recommend it to those with a taste for these kinds of stories. ...more This is an excellent book. It was a bit slow in the beginning (for the first twenty pages or so, anyway) and to be honest I thought my general dislike of Irmeltrud as a character would spoil the whole book for me. It didn't. This novel touches on several sensitive subjects: treatment of the elderly, gender equality, and religious persecution being the big three. One of the things that usually turns me off in a novel that's in English but about a different country is that sometimes, the author over This is an excellent book. It was a bit slow in the beginning (for the first twenty pages or so, anyway) and to be honest I thought my general dislike of Irmeltrud as a character would spoil the whole book for me. It didn't. This novel touches on several sensitive subjects: treatment of the elderly, gender equality, and religious persecution being the big three. One of the things that usually turns me off in a novel that's in English but about a different country is that sometimes, the author overuses native words to remind the reader of the location. This doesn't happen here--the German words are basic enough to figure out from context and are not overused at all. There are never any whole sentences and there is no knowledge of German required to read this novel. It added a very touching sense of realism. I liked the 'resolution' at the end as well--I felt that the bad characters got what was coming to them, and while obviously everything didn't turn out with a happily-ever-after ending, there was enough of an uplifting change to leave me feeling substantially less depressed than I felt through most of the novel. ...more This was another quickish read, about a small German village in the 1500s where the crops have failed and everyone is starving. The problems are blamed on witchcraft and the culprit is sought. False accusations start to fly and an innocent woman is tortured and burned because she is the village's eldest resident and also the healer so she must be a witch. When her death changes nothing, the villagers start whispering to the friar about who it may be and others are sentenced on the flimsiest of ev This was another quickish read, about a small German village in the 1500s where the crops have failed and everyone is starving. The problems are blamed on witchcraft and the culprit is sought. False accusations start to fly and an innocent woman is tortured and burned because she is the village's eldest resident and also the healer so she must be a witch. When her death changes nothing, the villagers start whispering to the friar about who it may be and others are sentenced on the flimsiest of evidence. I enjoyed this book. The descriptions of the hungry people are quite harrowing at times, with them eating snow because there is nothing else. The torture using boiling water you can almost feel and the despair of the accused is very well described. It is frightening to think that so many women were put to death in those days on the most tenuous of reasons. ...more I really enjoyed this book. Set in the early 1500's in a small village in Germany sticken with famine, a Friar arrives to this town to uncover the evil witches that are causing God to punish the village. He has a book called \"Malleus Maleficarum\" (this book really existed) aka \"The Witch's Hammer\" which is a guide to gain witches confessions. They author traced her roots to relatives that where actually accused of witchcraft during this disturbing period of our history. A good read. Germany, 1507. A frail grandmother in a small village is accused of witch-craft. Some interesting perspectives...are there only starving desperate people who need explanations for their hard times or is there witchcraft in the village? A well written tale about how desperation leads people to desperate and cruel acts. As they light the pyre, I swear that I can hear the wood crackling and screaming . I cry as they cheer around the fire, driven by greed, hate and fear. But she doesn\u2019t scream, she won\u2019t give them satisfaction. Finally, she crumples to the ground and they let the fire \u201cpurify\u201d her. Her fate after that is to be buried in an unmarked grave where no one will remember her. Forgotten by all. I clenched by teeth and threw the book clear across the room (and apparently the author is happy that I did so, As they light the pyre, I swear that I can hear the wood crackling and screaming . I cry as they cheer around the fire, driven by greed, hate and fear. But she doesn\u2019t scream, she won\u2019t give them satisfaction. Finally, she crumples to the ground and they let the fire \u201cpurify\u201d her. Her fate after that is to be buried in an unmarked grave where no one will remember her. Forgotten by all. I clenched by teeth and threw the book clear across the room (and apparently the author is happy that I did so, as she mentioned on twitter @ErikaMailman). \u201cThe Witch\u2019s Trinity\u201d by Erika Mailman is an emotional roller coaster that will have you angry, sad, and triumphant at every new turn. Mailman weaves a tale of Tierkinddorf, a German village in the early 1500\u2032s where witches were blamed for everything from famine to sour milk. Historically, Pope Innocent VIII specifically singled out Germany as a nest of Satanic witchcraft in \u201cSummis Desiderantes Affectibus\u201d in 1484. In a time when the crops failed and game was hard to find, the only possible explanation was that there is a witch amongst them. When the friar arrives armed with a book called the Malleus Maleficarum\u2014\u201cThe Witch\u2019s Hammer\u201d, growling stomachs overpower the sound of thunder and reason. G\u00fcde M\u00fcller, an elderly woman, lives with her kind son and mean spirited daughter-in-law. When dinner becomes simply a bowl of snow, the daughter-in-law glares at G\u00fcde with hatred and burden. Suffering from memory loss, G\u00fcde begins having visions of her dead husband and devilish figures. Did she sign the devil\u2019s book? Is what she seeing real? Being the oldest in the village and having herb knowledge \u2013 she is suddenly the object of everyones woes. Living so close to Salem, the witch trials stain our history in Massachusetts. Similar to \u201cThe Crucible\u201d by Arthur Miller, \u201cThe Witch\u2019s Trinity\u201d lifts the veil to reveal the dark aspects of society and illustrates how fear can turn a trusted neighbor into an enemy. It is rare to read a book about witches where the focus is not on if witchcraft is real or not. This is not a mystery about who the witch is or a fantasy where people are turned into toads or a romance where men fall under a witch\u2019s spell. This is a book about a group of people, hungrier than we have ever been, led by a man of social standing. He holds up a bowl of food in the air as a reward for information. Your children are starving, your mother is weak. Tales like this only bring about one fundemental question. How much would you sell your neighbor for? Since 1993 the city council of 17 German and 2 Swiss cities have issued a resolution to exonerate the victims of the local witch hunt and have put up commemorative plaques. The City Council of D\u00fcsseldorf issued a resolution in November 2011 to exonerate the victims of the witches craft trials and the City Council of Cologne exonerated Katharina Henot and the other victims of the persecution of witches in Cologne on June 28, 2012. The victims of the witch craft trials of Salem/USA have been exonerated consecutively in 1711, in 1957 and in 2001. \u2013 \u201cWitch trials in the early modern period\u201d See other book reviews at shelflifeofabookseller.com or artteasemagazine.com ...more There seems to be a sea of information on the internet about Erika Mailman, most are snippets. I can\u2019t pinpoint exact details. http://www.erikamailman.com/about-erika/ this is Erika\u2019s web page and the best place to find out more. Since I can\u2019t find the correct information, I won\u2019t go into the writer\u2019s bio. The witch\u2019s Trinity takes place in Germany 1507, over the course of a hard winter that has brought famine to the land. The villagers are starved and wrought with desperation. A friar comes to There seems to be a sea of information on the internet about Erika Mailman, most are snippets. I can\u2019t pinpoint exact details. http://www.erikamailman.com/about-erika/ this is Erika\u2019s web page and the best place to find out more. Since I can\u2019t find the correct information, I won\u2019t go into the writer\u2019s bio. The witch\u2019s Trinity takes place in Germany 1507, over the course of a hard winter that has brought famine to the land. The villagers are starved and wrought with desperation. A friar comes to the small village Gude where and her family reside and tells the villagers that he can bring an end to this famine. He promises to find the witch responsible for the famine and burn her at the stake for her unholy manner. Things disintegrate quickly. Gude\u2019s friend is burnt at the stake and soon she is accused of the dark arts by a member of her family. An interesting book, I loved how the book portrays the protagonist as an elderly woman. I was drawn in by the characters and mortified by the cruelty inflicted upon these women. The book works very closely with the true history of witchcraft and the reader is treated to quotes from Malleus Maleficarum and various other writings that deal with witchcraft. There is a feel of desperation throughout the book and several twists. I liked that the antagonist is also accused and that the pair struggle through their plight together. The characters are consistent and true to human nature. In all this book shows the reader that in desperate times people will do whatever it takes to survive. What I didn\u2019t like was the ending to the book. It seemed rushed and a little unbelievable. Certain aspects were swept under the rug and brutality sought a means to an end. In all I was a little disappointed, but still if you like historical fiction, then this is worth a read. ...more I happened to pick up this book and start reading while I was already reading The Crucible . Pure coincidence. But fortunate coincidence. Somehow it made this story resonate even deeper and truer to me. I have professed my love for historical fiction before (and I will continue to do so)... and this story solidifies that love all over again. The tale is quick moving while at the same time it carries such weight that it is stunning. Truly transporting. There is a point in the story where the chara I happened to pick up this book and start reading while I was already reading The Crucible . Pure coincidence. But fortunate coincidence. Somehow it made this story resonate even deeper and truer to me. I have professed my love for historical fiction before (and I will continue to do so)... and this story solidifies that love all over again. The tale is quick moving while at the same time it carries such weight that it is stunning. Truly transporting. There is a point in the story where the character of Gude Muller is gazing upon her friend Kunne, whose face she knows better than her own, which she has only seen in rippling water. I don't have the exact quote, but this moment is so keenly felt, the way it transcends obvious description of a place and time far removed from here and now. A moment of beauty to me. Both The Witch's Trinity and The Crucible are fraught with the horrors of superstition, paranoia, and hysteria... but Mailman's story adds a level of desperation that is so elemental, so raw and deep, that I can't help but see more substance in the resulting hysteria. While the story of Salem, MA dramatized in Miller's play is profound, it is a travesty of a different ilk. In attempting to equate adults driven into a frenzy by the word of maliciously precocious children, with deliriously starving people seeking some reason for their degradation, I find the Salem witch hunts are maddening while Mailman's story is heart wrenching. The addition of dark characters intent on power or fueled by jealousy and selfish greed, makes this a literary morsel of which I was ravenous to partake. ...more This book took hold of me on page 1 and didn\u2019t let up. G\u00fcde is an engaging narrator, and Mailman made the challenging decision to give her narrator a touch of either insanity or dementia (probably the latter), which causes G\u00fcde to have visions and strange dreams caused by age, Alzheimer\u2019s, starvation, or all three. Mailman stays true to G\u00fcde\u2019s point of view, which means that the reader perceives the story in \u201creal time\u201d and must work through the visions as G\u00fcde does. The book is extremely well-w This book took hold of me on page 1 and didn\u2019t let up. G\u00fcde is an engaging narrator, and Mailman made the challenging decision to give her narrator a touch of either insanity or dementia (probably the latter), which causes G\u00fcde to have visions and strange dreams caused by age, Alzheimer\u2019s, starvation, or all three. Mailman stays true to G\u00fcde\u2019s point of view, which means that the reader perceives the story in \u201creal time\u201d and must work through the visions as G\u00fcde does. The book is extremely well-written, and although the reader may experience some initial confusion between dreams and reality \u2013 as G\u00fcde does \u2013 it quickly becomes apparent that G\u00fcde is elderly, and confused herself, but no witch. The novel contains some disturbing imagery, both in G\u00fcde\u2019s visions and during the friar\u2019s attempts to coerce confessions from the alleged witches, and to that end I do not recommend it for children. The ending was very well-written. Mailman does a masterful job of resolving the conflicts without glossing over the reality and the consequences of the village\u2019s witch-trial frenzy. I recommend this book to adults looking for a novel that goes beyond mere story. It is compelling both in its narrative and in its treatment of the underlying issues. The best kind of novel is one that makes you think without hitting you over the head with a message \u2013 a compelling narrative that refuses to let the reader go. (*A note: I do know Erika Mailman personally, and consider her a friend, but that fact did not influence this review.) ...more With a spare, clean writing style that manages to evoke a long-past era, the author takes us into a world of fear, desperation, superstition and an appalling misuse of religious belief that wreaks havoc on its victims. I was completely absorbed in this world of witch hunts that, sadly, keep revisiting the world in different eras, forms and from different sources. The sympathetic character Gude Miller, aged to the point of cloudy thinking (dementia, we might now call it), acts suspiciously enough With a spare, clean writing style that manages to evoke a long-past era, the author takes us into a world of fear, desperation, superstition and an appalling misuse of religious belief that wreaks havoc on its victims. I was completely absorbed in this world of witch hunts that, sadly, keep revisiting the world in different eras, forms and from different sources. The sympathetic character Gude Miller, aged to the point of cloudy thinking (dementia, we might now call it), acts suspiciously enough that others think she is a witch. One aspect of this novel that sets it above others in the genre is that the author takes us into Gude's confused thinking, and does so plausibly enough that even we aren't' sure what she is experiencing. Thus we can accept, given the world of famine and dire need the author sets up, why others might suspect and, ultimately, accuse her. Chillingly, the story resonates today: although Europe does not condemn thousands to torture and death at the stake, there are plenty of recent manifestos of extremist believers that are about as chilling, and seemingly senseless, as the manual provided for the 15th century witch-hunts, Malleus Maleficarum. This book is not intended for children nor is it for the faint of heart, but its final pages provide a beautifully rendered scene of reconciliation and hope for a future, more accepting humanity. I strongly recommend this absorbing and meaningful book! ...more This book was so interesting and sad and cool! It takes place in 1600s Germany in a tiny village plagued by a severe famine. It is told from the perspective of Gude, an old woman living with her son and his family. She can remember the times of plenty, and is slowly slipping into dementia and senility. It is clear that she is a burden on the family, and she can sense the growing resentment from her daughter-in-law, Irmeltrude. Gude is cast out of the cottage one wintry night and stumbles upon a c This book was so interesting and sad and cool! It takes place in 1600s Germany in a tiny village plagued by a severe famine. It is told from the perspective of Gude, an old woman living with her son and his family. She can remember the times of plenty, and is slowly slipping into dementia and senility. It is clear that she is a burden on the family, and she can sense the growing resentment from her daughter-in-law, Irmeltrude. Gude is cast out of the cottage one wintry night and stumbles upon a coven of witches. Later, she cannot recall whether she pledged her soul to the Devil, nor can she determine whether this was a dream or reality. Gude is an unreliable narrator, but as the novel progresses she seems to be the most rational person in the town. A friar arrives and promises to purge the village of its plight by rooting out the cause of the famine: namely, witches. A witch hunt ensues and Gude watches in helpless terror as one of her lifelong friends is targeted. I loved this book, especially because it is set in a time period that I don't often read about. I found the narrator to be empathetic and the narrative structure to be riveting. It certainly gives one a sense of how undervalued and powerless the elderly (particularly women) were in this society, and I loved how Gude maintained her agency despite the heinous friar. ...more Mailman's narrator is G\u00fcda, a self-described \"old woman\" who yearns for the peace and end to the cold and hunger that death will bring. She's outlived most of her friends in her 16th Century German village and finds herself marginalized, the object of blame, hate and suspicion, during a winter of famine. Enter the Friar, a cruel, sadistic, self-righteous witch-hunter, anxious to rid the town of the source of its troubles by holding a good ol' fashioned witch-burning. But who to burn? Beautifully Mailman's narrator is G\u00fcda, a self-described \"old woman\" who yearns for the peace and end to the cold and hunger that death will bring. She's outlived most of her friends in her 16th Century German village and finds herself marginalized, the object of blame, hate and suspicion, during a winter of famine. Enter the Friar, a cruel, sadistic, self-righteous witch-hunter, anxious to rid the town of the source of its troubles by holding a good ol' fashioned witch-burning. But who to burn? Beautifully written with tidy depictions of the landscape and its creatures. Mailman's images ignite the imagination and allow readers to picture the desolate village and neighboring wood. G\u00fcda's remembrances of the village in a time of plenty and the friendships of her youth contrast with the mean bitterness into which the village has fallen. The villagers are as eager as the Friar to find a scapegoat, eventually working themselves into a poo-throwing (yes, poo) frenzy. The themes of fertility, women and nature, Christianity and paganism are all explored here. It isn't until the end of the book that readers understand what is real and what might be imagined by G\u00fcda's failing mind. The Witch's Trinity gets the Lauralee (whack!) stamp of approval. ...more It's a long harsh winter in Germany in 1507 and after several years of failed harvests famine stalks the countryside. Hunger and dispair makes people look for scapegoats and single elderly women are the obvious target. Irmeltrud sees the perfect opportunity to get rid of her mother-in-law Guede, who she thinks is just another mouth to feed. Pointing the finger can backfire though and quickly accusations of witchcraft are flying and the whole town is in uproar. This was very well told, vividly im It's a long harsh winter in Germany in 1507 and after several years of failed harvests famine stalks the countryside. Hunger and dispair makes people look for scapegoats and single elderly women are the obvious target. Irmeltrud sees the perfect opportunity to get rid of her mother-in-law Guede, who she thinks is just another mouth to feed. Pointing the finger can backfire though and quickly accusations of witchcraft are flying and the whole town is in uproar. This was very well told, vividly imagined and rather haunting. The author's understanding of German words and expressions in excellent and she uses them to good effect. The story is not for the faint-hearted though because of the violence and cruelty involved. People's capacity to harm each other on the slightest pretext always saddens me, and while the author gives hunger as a reason here, I suspect it would take far less for these characters to denounce their neighbours, or indead their family members. A dark period of history, brought to life in great detail. ...more This was okay but slightly predictable. The story was an interesting one, exploring how quickly fear can escalate and the lengths people will go to out of jealousy or for self preservation. It was slightly stereotypical and clich\u00c3\u00a9d with the rich friar who exhibits pleasure in the torture of women, the accusation levelled at the old woman with a knowledge of herbs and how the idea that once the male voices of reason leave the village, the women resort to tearing each other apart. I'm reading a b This was okay but slightly predictable. The story was an interesting one, exploring how quickly fear can escalate and the lengths people will go to out of jealousy or for self preservation. It was slightly stereotypical and clich\u00c3\u00a9d with the rich friar who exhibits pleasure in the torture of women, the accusation levelled at the old woman with a knowledge of herbs and how the idea that once the male voices of reason leave the village, the women resort to tearing each other apart. I'm reading a book of feminist literary criticism at the moment so my reading of this has probably been coloured by it but this book frustrated me in places. The premise of an accused woman whose memory is failing her and so doesn't truly know what she has and hasn't done is a good one. I didn't feel however that this was supported by the depiction of the other characters. A quick read but due to the subject matter not a light read! ...more I have always found the Salem Witch Trials very interesting. The fact that some things were blamed on witch craft is sad to me. To think of all of the people who were killed that had done no wrong. The fact that preachers and judges had the right to punish these people is even more disheartening. I had never heard of any witch trials other than Salem. This story is set in Germany. It follows a small town through its hardship and famine. People that were starving started to blame two older women I have always found the Salem Witch Trials very interesting. The fact that some things were blamed on witch craft is sad to me. To think of all of the people who were killed that had done no wrong. The fact that preachers and judges had the right to punish these people is even more disheartening. I had never heard of any witch trials other than Salem. This story is set in Germany. It follows a small town through its hardship and famine. People that were starving started to blame two older women of witchcraft, which led to everyone blaming everyone else. The story is told by one of those elderly ladies. It follows her mind through the process of the trials. A mind that is failing its own self. It was a very interesting read. At the end the writer tells of her ancestor, from 350 years ago, that was accused of witchcraft. I didn't really learn anything I didn't already know of witch trials, but it was still a decent read. ...more A really tense story focusing on the craze for witch hunts in Europe following the publication of the Witches Hammer. This works on the idea that it was largely useless members of communities that were targeted, at least during times of hardship. The main plot device is that an unwanted mother-in-law, who is seen as just an extra mouth to feed, and who is suffering from memory lapses due to her age and to malnutrition, is a likely and almost acceptable target. An interesting twist towards the en A really tense story focusing on the craze for witch hunts in Europe following the publication of the Witches Hammer. This works on the idea that it was largely useless members of communities that were targeted, at least during times of hardship. The main plot device is that an unwanted mother-in-law, who is seen as just an extra mouth to feed, and who is suffering from memory lapses due to her age and to malnutrition, is a likely and almost acceptable target. An interesting twist towards the end of the story, where the accusations of witchcraft backfire on both accusers, and also on the religious representatives. Another interesting feature of the story is that the writer has an ancestor who was accused of witchcraft a number of times. If the history at the end of the book is accurate then it seems that this historical 'witch' spent a good deal of her time winding people up, which probably led to the accusations against her. Anyway, a good book to explore. ...more The Witch\u2019s Trinity was an amazing book and I devoured it in two sittings. This novel is both well told, with lovely, evocative language, and paced so brilliantly you can\u2019t put it down. I found the main character, G\u00fcde, utterly engrossing. Though she experienced horrific events, I enjoyed her company and was desperate to know what would become of her in the end. In addition to being a wonderfully absorbing work of fiction, Mailman\u2019s writing casts needed light on a shameful part of our history an The Witch\u2019s Trinity was an amazing book and I devoured it in two sittings. This novel is both well told, with lovely, evocative language, and paced so brilliantly you can\u2019t put it down. I found the main character, G\u00fcde, utterly engrossing. Though she experienced horrific events, I enjoyed her company and was desperate to know what would become of her in the end. In addition to being a wonderfully absorbing work of fiction, Mailman\u2019s writing casts needed light on a shameful part of our history and the disturbing tendency of human beings to scapegoat the most vulnerable among us. In the afterward, Mailman refers to the witch hunt as a \u201cholocaust\u201d and I find the choice of word wholly appropriate. While reading Mailman\u2019s vivid portrayal of villagers turning against one another, I couldn\u2019t help but think of ways in which we still torment, scapegoat, and otherwise vilify marginalized members of our society. This is a wrenching, memorable read. ...more Set in a small German hamlet in the 16th century, Mailman uses sparse, beautiful language to recreate the conditions in a town that is slowly starving to death, filled with neighbors who have laughed, loved and grieved together for years,who suddenly turn against each other in their desperation. The Catholic Church, limited understanding of the world around them, and lingering superstition of the Dark Ages come together in a perfect storm and give rise to the trails of witchcraft that swept throu Set in a small German hamlet in the 16th century, Mailman uses sparse, beautiful language to recreate the conditions in a town that is slowly starving to death, filled with neighbors who have laughed, loved and grieved together for years,who suddenly turn against each other in their desperation. The Catholic Church, limited understanding of the world around them, and lingering superstition of the Dark Ages come together in a perfect storm and give rise to the trails of witchcraft that swept through the continent. Mailman has the gift of making the reader feel as if you are there, facing the same excruciating decisions. Would you do the right thing, even if it meant certain death? What lengths would you go to in order to protect your children? All this in less than 300 pages. Wow! It totally amazes me how peoples minds wrap around all the false as well as truths and truly change the concept of real life situations in history and right up to present time. ...more What would you do if your nasty daughter-in-law accuses you of being a witch (and could be burned at the stake) as her family is starving and you're just another hungry mouth to feed? This is the horrific death that could befall Gude, the storyteller. She has already seen the terrible repercussions of the villagers accusations towards her best friend Gunne, and she desperately tries to avoid suffering the same fate. I found this book absolutely fascinating and it certainly made me think about the What would you do if your nasty daughter-in-law accuses you of being a witch (and could be burned at the stake) as her family is starving and you're just another hungry mouth to feed? This is the horrific death that could befall Gude, the storyteller. She has already seen the terrible repercussions of the villagers accusations towards her best friend Gunne, and she desperately tries to avoid suffering the same fate. I found this book absolutely fascinating and it certainly made me think about the terrible deeds done to women (and men) who were (usually) falsely accused of witchcraft. Throughout the book Gude relives moments in her life and we're given a glimpse of a time when food was plentiful and all the villagers were her friends, until the crops fail for the second year and they need someone to blame. All in all, a great read. ...more<---C>Erika Mailman</---C>", "Title": "The Witch's Trinity"},
