{"Comments": "<+++>The Lost Books of The Odyssey</+++>Excellent.<---F> A brilliant idea beautifully executed</---F>. Prose as light as air. I questioned a few words (<---B>overreact, afterimage, etc.</---B>), which did not seem in keeping with the setting of antiquity, but found very little else amiss. One of Mason's models is Jorge Luis Borges --who once said that instead of creating tedious booklength narratives novelists should write critiques of imaginary books, which is essentially what Mason has done here--another influence may be Italo Calvino . The novel made me want Excellent. A brilliant idea beautifully executed. Prose as light as air. I questioned a few words (overreact, afterimage, etc.), which did not seem in keeping with the setting of antiquity, but found very little else amiss. One of Mason's models is Jorge Luis Borges --who once said that instead of creating tedious booklength narratives novelists should write critiques of imaginary books, which is essentially what Mason has done here--another influence may be Italo Calvino . The novel made me want to go back and reread Robert Fagles 's translations of Homer . I can't praise this little book enough. ...more This was a transformative book \u2013 for the author more so than for me. Mason was a computer scientist working in AI. He had no formal education in either fiction or the classics, but had an abiding interest in The Odyssey since his early teenage years. When he finally completed this book after plugging away on it for years, he got zero interest from publishers or agents. Then he won a young writers\u2019 competition and suddenly became a star. I noticed in his bio that he\u2019s now teaching at Oxford \u2013 the This was a transformative book \u2013 for the author more so than for me. Mason was a computer scientist working in AI. He had no formal education in either fiction or the classics, but had an abiding interest in The Odyssey since his early teenage years. When he finally completed this book after plugging away on it for years, he got zero interest from publishers or agents. Then he won a young writers\u2019 competition and suddenly became a star. I noticed in his bio that he\u2019s now teaching at Oxford \u2013 the one in England, no less. My own transformation was more limited. It wasn\u2019t that I disliked it; it\u2019s more that I didn\u2019t have much of a starting point to transform myself away from. I don\u2019t think O Brother Where Art Thou counts as a very thorough grounding. But even without Homer as a springboard, I could tell that this was a very clever re-imagining of the classic travel adventure. It was confusing at first since the order was all scattered and the stories sometimes contradicted one another. (For instance, the various accounts of Penelope\u2019s actions during his absence ran the gamut fidelity-wise.) But it was evidently very much in the spirit of the tales that had been told aloud for generations prior to Homer converting them to poetry and committing them to papyrus. I liked Mason\u2019s tone. His Odysseus was a man of many faces \u2013 often,<---M> but not always</---M>, brave, honorable, witty and wise. The mixture was inconsistent, but that was alright. This underscores how a legend like The Odyssey coalesced from many different sources. Variations would be expected as a consequence of repeated retelling and different takes on human/god behavior. Mason\u2019s contributions reminded me of I\u2019m Not There , the movie that was described as ruminations on Bob Dylan. The six character portrayals it featured were not meant to be of Dylan himself, but to embody different aspects of his music and life. Each of Mason\u2019s 44 mini-chapters were inspired by the original, but were riffs he could call his own. Characters like Penelope, Telemachus, Achilles, Calypso, Agamemnon, Helen, the Cyclops and the sirens were also given their due. My favorite vignettes were the ones where Odysseus outwits some adversary. I also enjoyed it when some seemingly more modern insight into the way of folks was put to us in a distant historical context. A smart guy like Mason had plenty of those moments. For that matter, Homer probably did, too. I imagine this is a great book for Homerphiles. It was even pretty good for a sham scholar like me. Plus, it\u2019s a lot more accessible than anything Joyce wrote. ...more underneath the cleverness and the copulating mirrors and the labyrinth architecture--of which there's admirably much--there's a melancholic source to all these odyssey-reflecting tales (victor of last year's penultimate starcherone fiction contest). all its revelations--the gods' winner's blues, the existential angst of the ancients, the mundane provenance of legends--are told with a wistful and appropriately epic heaviness. how he wrings from the original more and more and more... and yet the w underneath the cleverness and the copulating mirrors and the labyrinth architecture--of which there's admirably much--there's a melancholic source to all these odyssey-reflecting tales (victor of last year's penultimate starcherone fiction contest). all its revelations--the gods' winner's blues, the existential angst of the ancients, the mundane provenance of legends--are told with a wistful and appropriately epic heaviness. how he wrings from the original more and more and more... and yet the world isn't exactly enlarged or reduced... i don't know exactly how to describe it, but the accomplishment is something like adding (seemingly) infinite perspectives to an unchanging object... calvino's invisible cities and queneau's exercises in style are close kin. its main accomplishment? how it shows us we are, even within our mortal limits, inexhaustible. its main drawback? for me, that it goes on a touch too long and lets the (illusion of) inexhastible-ness falter at the end. but that's a quibble. try it mikey you might like it... ...more I wanted to like this a lot, so was probably more disappointed than I should have been. there was a stretch in the middle where I was really into every story, but there were some in the earlier & later parts of the book that were so in love with their own cleverness that it just left a sour taste in my mouth for the whole thing. also, I thought the pseudo-academic footnotes were poorly used, weakly sprinkled throughout & with no clear purpose (specifically, I often couldn't decide if the I wanted to like this a lot, so was probably more disappointed than I should have been. there was a stretch in the middle where I was really into every story, but there were some in the earlier & later parts of the book that were so in love with their own cleverness that it just left a sour taste in my mouth for the whole thing. also, I thought the pseudo-academic footnotes were poorly used, weakly sprinkled throughout & with no clear purpose (specifically, I often couldn't decide if they were being used as a thematic choice or to actually give the reader information.) my other major problem was that the book lacked focus- it needed to have some of the stories that related less to Odysseus/ the odyssey slashed- some of them were very cool and interesting, bur they just felt out of place. unsurprisingly, I did think the best stories were the ones that really felt like alternate myths, not cheeky writing excercises and there just weren't enough of then, which is too bad because the good ones were really quite good. ...more A sort of fictional apocrypha to Homer's original Odyssey, the faux introduction claims that the Lost Books come from a document that has been transcribed and handed down over time and only recently deciphered into a number of smaller books exploring different themes and variations of this story. What if Odysseus was a coward, whose actions ultimately resulted in the defeat of both sides, and he spent the next ten years disguised as a bard, telling the tale that became the Odyssey that we know to A sort of fictional apocrypha to Homer's original Odyssey, the faux introduction claims that the Lost Books come from a document that has been transcribed and handed down over time and only recently deciphered into a number of smaller books exploring different themes and variations of this story. What if Odysseus was a coward, whose actions ultimately resulted in the defeat of both sides, and he spent the next ten years disguised as a bard, telling the tale that became the Odyssey that we know today? What if he was a sorcerer who fashioned Achilles out of clay and gave him life by the light of a full moon? What if Penelope gave up hope and killed herself, and Odysseus encountered her shade in the land of the dead? What if it was Odysseus who secretly married Helen, and not Menelaus? What if Paris was the guise worn by Death, and Troy was his citadel of the dead? What if the real reason Odysseus suffered so many trials on his journey home was because he'd rejected the advances of Athena? Also, the writing is phenomenal. A great read, I can't recommend this enough. ...more Utilizing Homer's classic tale of the trials and tribulations of Odysseus, <---A>Zachary Mason</---A> presents his readership with variations on a theme. Here are alternative courses this destiny might have taken; different choices, different interventions, differing motives and means loosely drawn from the connective tissue of the ancient master's text. It is difficult at first to accept the shift of direction as Mason's voice sometimes slips into modern-day phrasing and expression, making trust a bit of an Utilizing Homer's classic tale of the trials and tribulations of Odysseus, Zachary Mason presents his readership with variations on a theme. Here are alternative courses this destiny might have taken; different choices, different interventions, differing motives and means loosely drawn from the connective tissue of the ancient master's text. It is difficult at first to accept the shift of direction as Mason's voice sometimes slips into modern-day phrasing and expression, making trust a bit of an issue. Clear that hurdle, though, and there is much to entertain and impress. This is deep work delivered in discreetly-measured doses; most chapters are short, sharp and fully-inhabited. It's Odysseus from a dizzying number of angles, painfully playing out his karmic thread. \"Finally I saw myself, how my wit exceeded that of other men but gave me no leverage against fate, and how in the time to come it would avail me nothing but possibly an understanding of the full scope of my helplessness.\" And it is not only Odysseus who receives a new attention - his wife, his son, his gods, his opponents, and his fellow fighting men are also shaken free. I was moved by many of the secondary stories, Scylla's most powerfully: \"You are the fate that has been haunting me since I was born. I huddled in my high cave for fear of you, starving and wretched, venturing out only to snatch a little food when I could. I thought of hiding in a deep cavern or on a high mountain but I was too afraid to leave home. Mine has been a miserable life and now it is ending and I wish I had never heard the name Odysseus.\" This is Mason's first novel. I look forward to his second. ...more I\u2019ve never read the Odyssey or the Iliad; my only knowledge of both comes third or fourth-hand (from cinema and literary references*) and so I was a little apprehensive about picking up this book. As the title suggests, it\u2019s a collection of stories \u2013 mostly very short \u2013 which purport to be a number of missing fragments from the Odyssey. To me it sounded like what a keen Classics scholar might produce over a few quiet weekends, something which might require a similar kind of specialist knowledge I\u2019ve never read the Odyssey or the Iliad; my only knowledge of both comes third or fourth-hand (from cinema and literary references*) and so I was a little apprehensive about picking up this book. As the title suggests, it\u2019s a collection of stories \u2013 mostly very short \u2013 which purport to be a number of missing fragments from the Odyssey. To me it sounded like what a keen Classics scholar might produce over a few quiet weekends, something which might require a similar kind of specialist knowledge to access and enjoy. But I couldn\u2019t have been more wrong. What Mason has done with the story of Ulysses\u2019 return to Ithaca is amazing, and one need only have a slight knowledge of the original to appreciate it. The word that best describes it is haunting; not only because the stories seem to possess a ghostly sensibility, but because for the author, the battle-weary Ulysses is a man pursued and pursuing things half-forgotten, misremembered. Adrift in time, the same story is told again and again except it is not the same: he meets Circe who is also Ariadne from the labyrinth of Minos; Helen of Troy and his wife Penelope switch places; he delivers ancient wisdom to Agamemnon, who rules over a \u2018negative image of a palace\u2019 sunken underground in a great white plain. Above all, the implication is that Ulysses himself was the hidden author of the Odyssey, and that so impossibly exaggerated and convoluted were the tales he told about himself and his companions that even Ulysses no longer understands where the truth begins. Some would argue** that this essential unreliability constitutes one definition of postmodernism. I don\u2019t know whether any or all of what Mason writes about is hinted at in Homer\u2019s originals, and I don\u2019t much care. Because the writing is beautiful. Careful, articulate, never gratuitous, the book possesses a deeply mysterious imagist quality that I found incredibly affecting. People have compared the stories to Borges and Calvino, and this is certainly valid, but Mason is more pared-down, more abstract than both. Borges would have made poems from many of these tales, but while Mason\u2019s prose seems formless by comparison, one has the sense of invisible structures at work even while the text seems totally insubstantial; indeed, Mason has commented in interviews that he originally intended the book to be accompanied by an array of House of Leaves-esque paraphernalia: an appendix, faux-credentials, expanded footnotes, etc. While I\u2019d be fascinated to see what happened to all that, I think he was probably right to cut it out. One last thing: this isn\u2019t totally relevant to the work, but I was impressed to find that this first novel came from someone who wasn\u2019t previously an established author, or even a full-time writer. Mason now has a Wikipedia entry, but it lists his vocation as \u2018computer scientist\u2019 before his career as author. In a time when most advice for would-be writers tends to demand an obsessive degree of commitment, I find it rather wonderful to think that an amateur writer can still produce something so beautifully crafted, so near-perfect in conception and execution. I literally cannot think of a bad thing to say about this book. Five stars. * \u2013 Most of what I now know about the Odyssey comes from studying James Joyce\u2019s rendition of that story at university. I really think Joyce would have totally understood and enjoyed this book. ** \u2013 Not me, particularly. ...more This is a very nice series of riffs on different parts of the Odyssey, taking certain passages of the classic and re-imagining them (often times completely changing the context or speculating well into the future and beyond). It is absolutely not a novel, rather a collection of what-if's, and Mason's love and thought put into the source material is obvious. It is hard not to compare this to Borges, particularly in the more meta-fictional tales (which I, of course, loved). To give you an example, This is a very nice series of riffs on different parts of the Odyssey, taking certain passages of the classic and re-imagining them (often times completely changing the context or speculating well into the future and beyond). It is absolutely not a novel, rather a collection of what-if's, and Mason's love and thought put into the source material is obvious. It is hard not to compare this to Borges, particularly in the more meta-fictional tales (which I, of course, loved). To give you an example, in one story's nutshell, after Odysseus goes through his many trials, he is stunned to find the gods reconstructing everything so the whole thing can start over, and over, and on and on into possibly infinity, thus creating the similar but different interpretations of the tale that have survived to this day. It's a nice twist, and Mason thankfully keeps all of these stories short, giving us just enough time to get it, and then ending it, leaving you at the last page with a sense of wonder and thoughtfulness. Even though I compliment the shortness, some stories were TOO short, and the latter half of the book dropped in quality a bit as some ideas seemed not as fleshed out. All in all, impressive stuff, but I find myself hoping Mason writes something soon that is completely independent of previous works, so we can see his imagination unleashed on his own creations. ...more I fell for this hard. Mason doesn't rip off the Odyssey. He riffs off of it. He takes the images, the characters, the scenarios, and reassembles them into these poignant, beguiling little vignettes that feel reminiscent of Cortazar and Borges but still manage to be completely his own. There's tons of books out there which try to re-tell or rehash classical works. Most of them suck. This book actually enriched my understanding of Homer's Odyssey, it brought out all that was strange, mesmerizing a I fell for this hard. Mason doesn't rip off the Odyssey. He riffs off of it. He takes the images, the characters, the scenarios, and reassembles them into these poignant, beguiling little vignettes that feel reminiscent of Cortazar and Borges but still manage to be completely his own. There's tons of books out there which try to re-tell or rehash classical works. Most of them suck. This book actually enriched my understanding of Homer's Odyssey, it brought out all that was strange, mesmerizing and sad in it while still standing strongly on its own literary feet. In fact, in certain ways, this book might actually be better than The Odyssey itself (there, I said it). Mason is definitely a writer to watch out for. I'd love to see his take on Don Quixote. ...more This book confirmed for me why it's probably a good thing that Borges never attempted, to my knowledge, to write a novel. What works so splendidly in individual short stories -- the cool tone, provocative ideas combined with fascinating detail -- would've become tiresome over the course of a novel. And that's exactly what happened as I progressed through Mason's book. I was quite delighted, even enchanted in the beginning, but then grew weary of the clever gamesmanship for its own sake. That I c This book confirmed for me why it's probably a good thing that Borges never attempted, to my knowledge, to write a novel. What works so splendidly in individual short stories -- the cool tone, provocative ideas combined with fascinating detail -- would've become tiresome over the course of a novel. And that's exactly what happened as I progressed through Mason's book. I was quite delighted, even enchanted in the beginning, but then grew weary of the clever gamesmanship for its own sake. That I could see (and I confess I didn't put much effort into sorting out connections) the chapters didn't seem to build on each other or even resonate in any particularly associative or collage-style fashion. Still, there were individual chapters-stories that I found very engrossing. The final chapter summed up for me the delights and frustrations of the entire book: it presents an intriguing idea that places Odysseus in contemporary light of \"celebrity\" but this idea seemed to come out of nowhere. In his NYer review (see below) comparing 3 fictional takes on Greek myth -- by Mason, Malouf, and Banville -- Daniel Mendelsohn argues that the appeal of this genre is that, at its best, it provides new insights into ancient timeless stories that reinforce why such stories remain important and compelling to readers so many centuries later. Between Mason and Malouf, for \"Ransom,\" a reimagining of Priam's visit to Achilles to plead for return of Hector's body, Mason does a much better job of adding something new to our understanding of Homer's genius (Banville was a distant third). Though I haven't yet read Ransom, I think M's criticism of Mason is a valid one. Still, despite all the misgivings, I think any fan of Homer or Greek mythology, would consider Mason's book, if not a must-read, at least an intriguing riff on one of the great stories of all time. If nothing else, Mason's \"lapidary\" prose is worth the effort. (actually, I'm not even sure what that means -- slick, spare, but evocative, like stones worn smooth by water? -- but professional reviewers seem to use it all the time, so I thought I'd throw it in there. Anyway, M. writes fine, vivid sentences. http://www.newyorker.com/arts/critics... ...more From the interviews I've read and heard with Zachary Mason, he's irresistible. A child Computer Science prodigy who bounced around Silicon Valley start ups with a lyrical, experimental novel brewing all the while? Sign me up. I love those polymathic types. The book doesn't disappoint, as long as you go in with an open mind. It's a long series of imaginative snapshots of the Odyssey, most from wildly unorthodox perspectives. What makes Odysseus so different from his other heroic peers is that he g From the interviews I've read and heard with Zachary Mason, he's irresistible. A child Computer Science prodigy who bounced around Silicon Valley start ups with a lyrical, experimental novel brewing all the while? Sign me up. I love those polymathic types. The book doesn't disappoint, as long as you go in with an open mind. It's a long series of imaginative snapshots of the Odyssey, most from wildly unorthodox perspectives. What makes Odysseus so different from his other heroic peers is that he gets by with cunning as often as strength and valor. This idea leads Mason to paths where the Odyssey is just PR from Odysseus the Bard. Or that he tricked Agamemnon into going to Troy or into quitting the war. Connections between the gods and mortals are shuffled, and unexpected narrators share their experiences. Despite the vast combinatorial possibilities, the book is not as scattered as you'd guess. The smooth prose unites the text and contributes to its claim as being \"a novel\" rather than a selection of short stories, which it is closer to. One story details Odysseus returning to Troy and finding it flush with impersonators and cheap souvenirs. It isn't a subtle statement about the commercialization of heroism but no one ever stands up for commercialization. Comparisons to Calvino and Borges are the most obvious and apt. Imagination and ideas trump narrative, though Mason's sense of narrative may be more effective than those other two. He does have the benefit of working with well known characters. According to interviews, he claims he's working on a similar project based on the Metamorphoses. I bet that will be gold. ...more As I read along I felt something was \"off\" but I could not put my finger on exactly what was giving me the sensation. After finishing, I was informed by the back inside cover that the author was a \"computer scientist specializing in artificial intelligence.\" Artificial Intelligence--Boom. Nailed it. First, the book is well written. The author's intelligence and knowledge of the original material shows in his work. To undertake creating a work such as this is no doubt an immense, intimidating tas As I read along I felt something was \"off\" but I could not put my finger on exactly what was giving me the sensation. After finishing, I was informed by the back inside cover that the author was a \"computer scientist specializing in artificial intelligence.\" Artificial Intelligence--Boom. Nailed it. First, the book is well written. The author's intelligence and knowledge of the original material shows in his work. To undertake creating a work such as this is no doubt an immense, intimidating task. I respect the author's willpower and bravery. There must have been a great passion driving him to write. Here lies the fault. I did not feel that passion is conveyed in the work itself. Like so many A.I. characters in science fiction, this book lacked feeling. An android can look human but can never feel, connect to or truly understand human emotions. This book has the settings, characters and storylines of the Odyssey but seems to lack the overall humanity that made me connect to the original. I can see instances where the attempts were made but they just missed the mark for me. I never developed a rapport with this work. I do feel it was worth the time I put into it but it's not one I'd re-read or recommend. It's one to rent, not to buy. FOOTNOTE-- Like so many other reviewers I found the footnotes to be rather snooty and unnecessary :) ...more In this collection of 44 short stories (the book is subtitled 'A Novel', but doesn't read like one) Zachary Mason holds a fun-house mirror up to the Odyssey, giving us a selection of alternate tellings of the familiar tales and accounts for the genesis of the story that range from the pragmatic (Odysseus is not a hero but a coward, who at the end of the war disguises himself as a bard and slowly builds up his own myth) to the fantastical (the Odyssey is actually the gods' playbook for the Trojan In this collection of 44 short stories (the book is subtitled 'A Novel', but doesn't read like one) Zachary Mason holds a fun-house mirror up to the Odyssey, giving us a selection of alternate tellings of the familiar tales and accounts for the genesis of the story that range from the pragmatic (Odysseus is not a hero but a coward, who at the end of the war disguises himself as a bard and slowly builds up his own myth) to the fantastical (the Odyssey is actually the gods' playbook for the Trojan War, written in advance to direct the action). As Mason explains in his preface: Despite its complexity, a handful of images are central to the Odyssey - black ships drawn up on a white beach, a cannibal ogre guarding a cave mouth, a man searching a trackless sea for a home that forgot him. Nearly three millennia ago a particular ordering of these images crystallised into the Odyssey as we know it, but before that the Homeric material was formless, fluid, its elements shuffled into new narratives like cards in a deck. Mason poses his 44 fragments as translations of a long-lost set of variations on this core body of materials: ... concise variations on Odysseus's story that omit stock epic formulae in favour of honing a single trope or image down to an extreme of clarity. I hope that this translation reflects the haunted light of Homer's older islands, where the familiar characters are arranged in new tableaux, but soon become restless, mercurial - they turn their backs, forget their names, move on. I'm not sure the Eco/Borges technique of 'translating' a 'discovered' text is needed. I would have enjoyed the book just as much without the faux-editorial voice poking in the odd footnote (odd, indeed, as Mason seems to choose which points he'll elucidate at random) and observation on the poor physical condition of the source material for fragment 41. I think the book would have been even stronger without this bit of coy play - if Mason had of just let us enjoy his inventiveness and language. Because there is so much to enjoy. Odysseus has always been my favourite character of Greek mythology - the epitome of human intelligence and fallibility, the modern man in the ancient story, the liar, the diplomat, the inventor, the silver-tongued orator. I think one of the things that draws me to Odysseus is that he is a multi-sided character in the original story - he has motivations that are based not on stock emotions, but curiosity, he does things not because his fate or the gods decree he will, but because he wants to know what will happen . Two strands in Mason's book appealed strongly to me. One was the connection between Athena and Odysseus, which is given a romantic (if unconsummated) twist, and which ends in a gesture of love and mercy. The other was the connection between Achilles and Odysseus. You could read these two, I suppose, as opposites: brute force against mental power, reckless bravery, even madness, against cunning, even cowardice. But Mason creates something subtler than that, and more fantastical. In 'Achilles and Death' Odysseus finds a way to neutralise the man who cannot be injured or bound. In 'The Myrmidon Golem', Odysseus creates Achilles to meet Agamemnon's crazy request. And in 'Victory Lament' Odysseus gives Achilles the keys to heaven - though of course, a gift from Odysseus is never quite what it seems. Mason's writing, though contemporary, retains some of the rolling nature and rich adjectives of the Odyssey. My very favourite passage come sin the final story, when Odysseus revisits Troy, now a tourist town full of actors replaying scenes from the war: The crowd cleared for a staged combat in which a Hector and a swashbuckling Achilles clacked wooden swords and bellowed insults, often with double entendres. (I remembered Hector and Achilles fighting at dawn in the wasteland between the city and the camp - Hector's focus, discipline and flares of inspiration against Achilles' luminous relentless hatred. They chose the same moment to stop attacking and wait, watching for an opening, the glowing empty space between them vivid in the sudden stillness.) 'The Lost Books of the Odyssey' joins that growing shelf in my heart, alongside Seamus Heaney's Mycenae Lookout poems and David Malouf's 'Ransom', that is reserved for writers who take these beloved stories of my childhood and breathe new life into them for the adult me. ...more the lost books of the odyssey is really a collection of very short \"what-if\" stories that share as a common thread the homeric hero, odysseus, and his adventures. it doesn't read like a novel to me despite the insistence of the title: there's not really a unified plot but rather thematically-connected stories that shift back and forth in time, and reconsider the same moments in the familiar cycle (not only touching on his adventures in the odyssey, but playing on the trojan war as well, even shu the lost books of the odyssey is really a collection of very short \"what-if\" stories that share as a common thread the homeric hero, odysseus, and his adventures. it doesn't read like a novel to me despite the insistence of the title: there's not really a unified plot but rather thematically-connected stories that shift back and forth in time, and reconsider the same moments in the familiar cycle (not only touching on his adventures in the odyssey, but playing on the trojan war as well, even shunting forward in time to alexander the great's day (alexander slept with a copy of homer under his pillow, and this is enough connective tissue to add a story from his perspective to the book). a grounding in the homeric tales is not necessary to reading the book: it purports to be a translation of apocryphal homeric tales from sherds left behind (this is a vestige of a conceit used by the author in the first edition issued by another publishing house that was reduced in this current picador incarnation) and mason occasionally provides some footnotes, and if i'm generous, i could suggest that the first seven or eight stories fall flat for me because i am well-versed in the homeric tradition and none of these stories really pay-off against the source material (though honestly, i read them twice over, and they didn't spark no matter how much goodwill i had.) the collection got much more interesting to me with the ninth story and then exploded by the fifteenth (seventy-two pages in) as mason began to really play the intertextuality of homeric tradition with other literary and narrative traditions and conventions: there are golems, and werewolves as you proceed through mason's supposed lost tales; there are stories here that read like bloody action films, and some that play like groundhog day. characters begin to transform, and truly transform the traditions they are based on. standout stories include: \"one kindness\" -- where the book began to take off for me; \"the iliad of odysseus\", \"killing scylla\", \"death and the king\", -- these three form the violent centre of the book; \"victory lament\", \"the long way back\", \"alexander's odyssey\", and \"last islands\". ...more The author has done an excellent job in his take on the Iliad and Odyssey [mostly the Odyssey]. He feels that the Odyssey that has come down to us is not complete and he's discovered 'lost books'. Well, I'd more accurately call them vignettes or sketches; each is from only 1 page to 6 pages long. Each one gives an unusual twist to an episode from the Odyssey. The whole work is analogous to a piece of music: Odysseus is the connecting theme, or link; and each vignette is a variation on one of the The author has done an excellent job in his take on the Iliad and Odyssey [mostly the Odyssey]. He feels that the Odyssey that has come down to us is not complete and he's discovered 'lost books'. Well, I'd more accurately call them vignettes or sketches; each is from only 1 page to 6 pages long. Each one gives an unusual twist to an episode from the Odyssey. The whole work is analogous to a piece of music: Odysseus is the connecting theme, or link; and each vignette is a variation on one of the adventures. Each piece is either narrated by Odysseus or Odysseus has a leading role. Time span covered is Odysseus growing up, Iliad, Odyssey, and, Odysseus after a period of years. Some vignettes are better than others, but they all show originality and creativity. Some of my favorites: \"Myrmidon Golem\": Since Achilles has been killed before the Trojan War, Odysseus creates a Golem-Achilles out of clay--shades of Frankenstein's monster, anyone? \"Blindness\": the point of view of the cyclops Odysseus has blinded and the monster's fate. \"Iliad of Odysseus\": Odysseus considers himself the author and feels the stories were passed down through the years until Homer claimed authorship. \"Sirens\": Odysseus' reaction to hearing the sirens' song. \"Long way back\": Ariadne, abandoned on Naxos, in another guise, meets Odysseus. \"Last islands\": Years later, Odysseus returns to Troy, which has been rebuilt and has become a tourist trap. I will never view any Homer in the same light again after reading this novel. The author wrote very imaginatively and very vividly. Highly recommended. ...more this is my second read of this book, and it's just as wonderful as the first. it's not really written as a novel, though, despite the subtitle. it's written as a series of short stories, or meditations, or just beautifully-drawn word pictures. my impression of the book overall is that it's like a year of dreams, all based on the Iliad or the Odyssey; each night, something a little different, remembered in greater or lesser detail. you get the story of the cyclops; how things might look if Penelope this is my second read of this book, and it's just as wonderful as the first. it's not really written as a novel, though, despite the subtitle. it's written as a series of short stories, or meditations, or just beautifully-drawn word pictures. my impression of the book overall is that it's like a year of dreams, all based on the Iliad or the Odyssey; each night, something a little different, remembered in greater or lesser detail. you get the story of the cyclops; how things might look if Penelope had poisoned herself, or remarried; what happens in Ilium after Odysseus mistakenly hangs himself; the alt-history view of Achilles. so many different aspects of the classic tales, reimagined or extended or seen in narrow focus. throughout the writing is just lovely, often with the feel of mythic language but utterly without pomp. a difficult mark, but the author hit exactly the right note. purists should probably avoid the book, because that's-not-the-way-it-happened; war-porn lovers should definitely give it a pass, because it does not glorify war; lit geeks looking for a metafiction ought to roam elsewhere. however, if you are intrigued by the story/myth of the Iliad and the Odyssey, and you are willing to stretch in directions Homer failed to go, i believe you will find this a satisfying read, well worth sitting on your shelf next to Homer's classics. ...more To repeat the assessment I made on tumblr, \"You're drunk on Borges and Calvino, go home.\" The stories are very self-consciously clever and more often than not, are trite and repetitive. The repetitiveness is particularly disappointing because there's so much for Mason to draw on in Homer. The triteness - well, I wasn't exactly expecting anything close to the level of 'The House of Asterion' so I wasn't too let down, but still. Oh well. The stories were entertaining enough to keep me reading. The To repeat the assessment I made on tumblr, \"You're drunk on Borges and Calvino, go home.\" The stories are very self-consciously clever and more often than not, are trite and repetitive. The repetitiveness is particularly disappointing because there's so much for Mason to draw on in Homer. The triteness - well, I wasn't exactly expecting anything close to the level of 'The House of Asterion' so I wasn't too let down, but still. Oh well. The stories were entertaining enough to keep me reading. The one story that I really liked was 'Fugitive' which imagines Homer's works as 'archetypes' of a war, constantly being replayed by the gods and Odysseus' escape from the narrative. It's not the most exciting of ideas, but I liked the execution; not too impressed by the fact that Mason revisited the idea later on in the collection' though. I might have given it a three, but the story which collapses Ariadne into Calypso... NoOoooOoooOope. Reflective of the lack of thought he puts into female characters into this book, which I'm not going to get into but... it's disappointing. Anyway, it was a short read. ...more I wish there were a way of giving this books 3.5 stars-- 4 seems just a bit too high, but I liked it more than a measly 3. Since I'm feeling expansive, and since it's pretty impressive for a first novel, I'll round up. I started this immediately upon finishing the Odyssey (literally: I finished listening to Derek Jacobi reading Homer, then clicked over to this one waiting on my iPod), and it was the perfect coda to my self-imposed little project of catching up on the epics. One of the most pleas I wish there were a way of giving this books 3.5 stars-- 4 seems just a bit too high, but I liked it more than a measly 3. Since I'm feeling expansive, and since it's pretty impressive for a first novel, I'll round up. I started this immediately upon finishing the Odyssey (literally: I finished listening to Derek Jacobi reading Homer, then clicked over to this one waiting on my iPod), and it was the perfect coda to my self-imposed little project of catching up on the epics. One of the most pleasurable things about listening to the Iliad and the Odyssey over the last few months has been the sense of how expansive and endlessly fascinating these characters and ideas are. It's so easy to see why they've inspired so much art, of all media, over the centuries. So encountering one of the latest such retellings was great fun-- and I thought this one was pretty imaginative, too. Borges comes to mind... I did think, though, that at times it was just a little too precious. ...more The phrase \"underground classic\" annoys the hell out of me, but this book might become one. Published by the small, Buffalo-based Starcherone Press (and winner of its most recent national fiction prize), ODYSSEY mixes a pseudo-academic framing story a la Borges with wonderfully imaginative views of Odysseus the character. I'll be writing a full review of this one soon for somebody (and will update this when I find out where), so I want to save my words. The only thing that keeps me from going ec The phrase \"underground classic\" annoys the hell out of me, but this book might become one. Published by the small, Buffalo-based Starcherone Press (and winner of its most recent national fiction prize), ODYSSEY mixes a pseudo-academic framing story a la Borges with wonderfully imaginative views of Odysseus the character. I'll be writing a full review of this one soon for somebody (and will update this when I find out where), so I want to save my words. The only thing that keeps me from going ecstatic about the book is the fact that its structural conceit--which is mathematical and too difficult to get into here--sometimes creates a problem of uneven tone that overpowers the character obvervations of Odysseus. But if you read the book, you'll get through that. A satisfying read, especially when followed by THE ILIAD or THE ODYSSEY! ...more Forty-four riffs on characters, events, and themes from Homer, mostly, and from Greek mythology in general. At times these pieces are reminiscent of Borges and Calvino\u2014but the biggest kinship here, I think, is to Steven Millhauser and his elegant, arch fictional thought experiments. This is high-end fan fiction that imagines alternate scenarios: what if Odysseus returned home to find Penelope remarried? ruling Ithaca herself with an iron fist? What if she were one of the shades he met in the Hou Forty-four riffs on characters, events, and themes from Homer, mostly, and from Greek mythology in general. At times these pieces are reminiscent of Borges and Calvino\u2014but the biggest kinship here, I think, is to Steven Millhauser and his elegant, arch fictional thought experiments. This is high-end fan fiction that imagines alternate scenarios: what if Odysseus returned home to find Penelope remarried? ruling Ithaca herself with an iron fist? What if she were one of the shades he met in the House of the Dead? What if the Iliad were the evolution of an ancient instruction manual for an early version of chess? Having taught and studied the Odyssey for fourteen years, I found this book a real pleasure. ...more Okay, first off you are going to need to read the Odyssey. Just go do that and come back. And if you read it back in college you're probably going to need to read it again. Otherwise these stories are going to make no damn sense whatsoever. But once you do, you will be so glad you did because it's like putting on 3-D glasses. I think my favorite is the one where Odysseus meets his double. Or maybe the one where he's sent to assassinate himself. Or no, maybe the one where Penelope is some kind of Okay, first off you are going to need to read the Odyssey. Just go do that and come back. And if you read it back in college you're probably going to need to read it again. Otherwise these stories are going to make no damn sense whatsoever. But once you do, you will be so glad you did because it's like putting on 3-D glasses. I think my favorite is the one where Odysseus meets his double. Or maybe the one where he's sent to assassinate himself. Or no, maybe the one where Penelope is some kind of feral wilderness person? Anyway, it's beautiful and so, so cleverly made...but as a book of stories there is just no center for me to grab onto and love. I could only like. ...more ohai! I am the manic pixie dream girl of books. I am cute and zany (or meta, as I like to say) and smart, too--you can tell by my vocabulary, and these big glasses I am wearing--and you can project all your anxieties about 21st century manliness and adulthood on to me! Whee! I'll take you to my yoga class (I know all the Sanskrit names for the poses, btdubs), and then we'll listen to some Death Cab for Cutie. What an unusual, fabulous, haunting book this is! Can't say that I have ever read anything remotely like it. A wonderful feat of imagination and literary syncretism. Having experienced these forty-four short tales, I will never again be able to think of certain aspects of Homer in quite the same ways. Review published in the Santa Cruz Weekly... 2/17/10 We\u2019ve all read Homer\u2019s Odyssey, or at least as a culture we\u2019ve been hearing about it for the last several thousand years. Odysseus, the clever, long-suffering hero of the Trojan War, takes ten years to get home to his faithful wife Penelope, having a seemingly endless series of life-threatening and erotic adventures along the way. It\u2019s an epic feast of Freudian symbolism, a middle-aged fantasy of resilient ingenuity and potency, a tale of ident Review published in the Santa Cruz Weekly... 2/17/10 We\u2019ve all read Homer\u2019s Odyssey, or at least as a culture we\u2019ve been hearing about it for the last several thousand years. Odysseus, the clever, long-suffering hero of the Trojan War, takes ten years to get home to his faithful wife Penelope, having a seemingly endless series of life-threatening and erotic adventures along the way. It\u2019s an epic feast of Freudian symbolism, a middle-aged fantasy of resilient ingenuity and potency, a tale of identity lost and regained. Now The Odyssey has come to us in another form, disguised as cleverly and strategically as Odysseus himself when cloaked by the goddess Athena\u2019s concealing mists. Only neither Odysseus nor Athena were writers or poets, and Zachary Mason, author of The Lost Books of the Odyssey, is both. The Lost Books takes the form of a series of carefully crafted vignettes \u2013 dreamy, ruminative, surreal at times \u2013 that re-work the well-worn paths of The Odyssey with a deftly innovative lyrical style, and a compelling philosophical, even metaphysical slant. Framed by the pretense of \u201ctranslating\u201d recently discovered fragments of \u201cpre-Ptolemaic papyrus excavated from the desiccated rubbish mounds of Oxyrhynchus\u201d that contain \u201cforty-four concise variations on Odysseus\u2019s story,\u201d Mason\u2019s narrative is at times playful in its revisions and darkly chilling in others. In one episode, after defeating the Trojans and wandering the seas for years in an effort to get home, Odysseus is shipwrecked, almost drowned, but finds himself in a time slip, being rescued by Agamemnon, on his way to Troy to fight the war that has not yet begun. Locked below deck on Agamemnon\u2019s ship, but also imprisoned in the labyrinth of time, Odysseus discovers a book called The Iliad, and begins to read the story of the famous war, featuring himself, but notices that the author gets many of the details wrong. Time and its variable, ironic nature is a central theme in Mason\u2019s work; almost every one of the vignettes bends or refracts time in order to imagine alternative destinies for the mythical heroes whose archetypal quests form the foundation of Western culture. Besides Odysseus, Mason reworks scenes from legends about Theseus, Agamemnon, Achilles, and Alexander the Great \u2013 all of which shatter any previous fixed notions we might have had about these figures. However, some of the most interesting terrain subjected to Mason\u2019s radical revisions are the women of The Odyssey. Odysseus\u2019s wife Penelope takes many different forms in a number of vignettes \u2013 most memorably a shape-shifting wild woodland creature; Odysseus\u2019 witchy lover Circe turns out to be the leader of the Bacchae; he is propositioned by the goddess Athena; and \u2013 unbeknownst to him \u2013 hapless Ariadne (after being abandoned by Theseus) takes on a new identity as the seductress Calypso. Before he lands on Calypso\u2019s island and becomes her lover, Mason has Odysseus overhear the three blind Fates discussing his destiny: should they make Calypso a \u201chorror\u201d to punish him? Hiding outside their grisly cave, Odysseus perfectly imitates one of their voices and interjects, \u201cNo, let her be beautiful and kind as summer.\u201d Thinking that one of the other hags has made this suggestion, the Fates assent, but comment, \u201cdo not forget\u2026he is, for all that he is bound to us, allowed just once to direct his fate\u2026Let us hope he does not meddle enough to get himself home.\u201d Odysseus has just wasted his one chance to change his destiny, but at least Calypso will be a beauty. Reading Mason\u2019s book is a journey through the imagination via lush, eloquent prose that will re-ignite a love of mythology within its readers, or \u2013 if it wasn\u2019t there before \u2013 will inspire entirely fresh insights into the ways that myths shape and inform the way we tell the stories of our lives. ...more Myth Reconfigured Great epics such as Homer's Iliad and Odyssey do not spring to life fully formed. Rather, they are brought together out of myths that may have been floating around for centuries, but now given a new focus, new continuity, new language. Zachary Mason's book (I can't really call it a novel) takes many of the familiar episodes from both Homeric works, strips them down to essentials, retells them in language that is both lean and evocative, and seeks for new meanings behind the old. Myth Reconfigured Great epics such as Homer's Iliad and Odyssey do not spring to life fully formed. Rather, they are brought together out of myths that may have been floating around for centuries, but now given a new focus, new continuity, new language. Zachary Mason's book (I can't really call it a novel) takes many of the familiar episodes from both Homeric works, strips them down to essentials, retells them in language that is both lean and evocative, and seeks for new meanings behind the old. In doing so, he also demonstrates how myths come into being, how one story comes to dominate over many possible alternatives, how once-real people get turned into demigods and heroes, and how their reality ultimately disappears into the sagas through which bards have immortalized them. I am not sure how well a reader needs to know the traditional version of Homer's works to appreciate this book. I myself have read the Iliad but not the Odyssey , although of course many of the stories are familiar (or vaguely so; I get confused by all those islands with sorceresses or monsters on them). I can't imagine anyone with little prior knowledge making much of this book. On the other hand, while greater familiarity with the original will enable the reader to catch more of Mason's references, it may make it more difficult to accept his radical recasting of the stories. Several are given in multiple versions. Among the 44 short chapters (some mere fragments), there are half a dozen accounts of Odysseus' celebrated return to Ithaca. He finds the city ravaged and deserted; he finds Penelope aged or dead, or still beautiful but married to someone else; in one story she is loved, in another barely tolerated; in yet a third, she had been swapped with Helen years before, and the Trojan War was fought over a mere joke and a twice-deceived husband's pride. At the center of the story is Odysseus, King of Ithaca, beloved of Pallas Athene, architect of the Wooden Horse, the coward, the liar, the fox. \"Odysseus, finding his reputation for trickery preceded him, started inventing histories for himself\u2026 with the unexpected effect that one of his lies became, with minor variations, the Odyssey of Homer.\" The deliberately antiheroic presentation of his character makes it easy for the reader to empathize with him, to applaud his invention, to be the co-author of his many-faceted sagas. I use the plural, because my one problem with the book is that it is so very non-linear, somewhat arbitrary in its order, and hard to perceive as a whole. But it does gradually build an unexpectedly touching pathos around the wandering hero. In one story, he and his men land on yet another island to postpone \"the impending reality of homecoming and the reversion from warriors to the condition of husbands, sons, and townsmen.\" In another, he lies in a mountain sanatorium, his memory gone, waiting for some other poet to fill him with purpose. And in the final chapter, he and a few of his former crew, old men all, retrace their voyage past the lost enchanted isles. I was reminded of Tennyson's \"Ulysses,\" perhaps the greatest reworking of the Odysseus myth: Push off, and sitting well in order smite The sounding furrows; for my purpose holds To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths Of all the western stars, until I die. Only Tennyson's old hero was sailing westwards, towards new and unknown lands. Mason's Odysseus, in kaleidoscopic self-referentiality, revisits and rewrites his old adventures, coming at last to a Troy where replica relics of the War of Heroes are sold on souvenir stands. ...more File this one under \"often clever, imitates Homer without just making everything wine-dark or rosy-fingered, maybe a bit too clever.\" Considering the very real risks involved -- choosing one of the oldest works of human literature, and one of the best-loved, as the jumping-off point for your collection of Borgesian riffs is an appealingly self-confident choice, and one that could have spectacularly backfired -- Mason definitely sticks the landing. That it does is mostly down to the prose, which File this one under \"often clever, imitates Homer without just making everything wine-dark or rosy-fingered, maybe a bit too clever.\" Considering the very real risks involved -- choosing one of the oldest works of human literature, and one of the best-loved, as the jumping-off point for your collection of Borgesian riffs is an appealingly self-confident choice, and one that could have spectacularly backfired -- Mason definitely sticks the landing. That it does is mostly down to the prose, which moves sensitively between a nuanced aping of classical style and a knowing archness of tone. It's not just the prose, I'll grant you. Some of the vignettes work better than others -- you can feel Mason straining to make it to 44 sometimes, going back to the well of Penelope's lycanthropic family more than once, crowbarring in a story about Alexander the Great, and, in the most ill-advised bit in the collection, for some reason turning Achilles into a golem. But for the most part they have the snap of a good gag, setting things up and getting to the punch line in an expeditious, enjoyable fashion. All this decidedly in a minor key, though -- at least personally, I can enjoy a good Borgesian riff on ancient literature, find it all very clever and admire the ventriloquism, but for the most part these 44 disconnected stories -- many if not all of which are mutually exclusive -- don't accrete to very much larger than themselves. So: enjoyment, admiration, but being moved, feeling an emotional connection, understanding something new about the human condition? Not so much. The single exception -- and a significant one -- is the relationship between Odysseus and Athena. It's already one of the most compelling parts of the Odyssey, the tug-of-war between Athena and Penelope (even if it's not presented or experienced in that way), and just as every somewhat-nerdy 12 year old girl of my generation had a crush on Picard, so does every somewhat-nerdy 11 year old boy nourish loving but chaste thoughts about the tall, gray-eyed goddess. (And yes, I am aware I am projecting here. About Athena I mean, not Picard. For Picard I have all sorts of evidence, anecdotal though it is. Also, apologies for the heteronormativity in the above, which is clearly unwarranted but hard to excise without weighing down one's writing with too damn many useless caveats). But yes, compelling stuff -- man and goddess, power relations nicely inverted, a love based on keenness of mind and seemingly immune to jealousy, though all of Odysseus' sleeping around must surely have taken a toll. The modern reader is certainly tempted to project some weight into the fact that Odysseus is best-loved of the patron of wisdom and war, and that said patron is a woman, and several of the stories take a run at this relationship, taking different angles of what it means for Odysseus or for Athena, and ironically these of all the puzzle-box confections on offer, these are the most human. And so the best story in the book is the aptly-named Epiphany, a compact five-page meditation on the impossibility of love between man and god, but also really about the way that an instant of vulnerability can momentarily cut across an ocean of pride and create a moment of unsurpassed beauty, without actually changing anything. The image of Athena, made girlish and shy by love, and Odysseus, too clever to give them both what they want -- that's something that will stick, even as the rest of the book probably won't. ...more The subtitle says, \u201cA novel\u201d but I suppose that\u2019s up for interpretation. The Lost Books of the Odyssey is a collection of forty-four short texts (stories?) which Mason presents as retellings of Homer\u2019s Odyssey from an ancient Egyptian papyrus. These stories, he says, \u201comit stock epic formulae in favor of honing a single trope or image down to an extreme of clarity.\u201d The book bears more than a passing resemblance to David Eagleman\u2019s Sum, in gimmick as well as in tone. Both Eagleman and Mason are s The subtitle says, \u201cA novel\u201d but I suppose that\u2019s up for interpretation. The Lost Books of the Odyssey is a collection of forty-four short texts (stories?) which Mason presents as retellings of Homer\u2019s Odyssey from an ancient Egyptian papyrus. These stories, he says, \u201comit stock epic formulae in favor of honing a single trope or image down to an extreme of clarity.\u201d The book bears more than a passing resemblance to David Eagleman\u2019s Sum, in gimmick as well as in tone. Both Eagleman and Mason are scientists (one is a neurosurgeon, the other an A.I. researcher) and I wonder if that is why they\u2019re fascinated with multiple variations of a single theme. In Eagleman\u2019s case, it\u2019s the afterlife. In Mason, it\u2019s Odysseus\u2019 story and its emotional minutiae. About the tone, there\u2019s a strange nostalgic quality to Mason\u2019s writing (and to Eagleman\u2019s), like one is missing something which happened long ago and which one never experienced. It\u2019s a running theme in Odysseus\u2019 forty-four stories: many of them deal with losing his identity, losing his memory and losing his way. Odysseus spends ten years lost in the Mediterranean before finding his way home to Ithaca and Mason plays with the idea of what has happened in the interim. Often, things are irreversibly changed in Ithaca (Penelope is married, Penelope is dead, Penelope is simply not there) and Odysseus is lost even after getting home. Many (if not most) of the stories are fantastical (there is even time travel here) and there are two particular types I especially liked. The stories featuring Athena are fantastic. She is sometimes aloof, but never indifferent, and we get the sense that she genuinely cares about Odysseus, like in \u201cAthena in Death\u201d where she greets him in the afterlife and offers him his choice of paradise. I also loved the stories with a darker tone. In \u201cDeath and the King\u201d Paris is Death and his abduction of Helen translates Troy to a nightmare land, where the sand is made of ground-up bones and the dead come alive after battle. In \u201cIslands on the Way\u201d Odysseus and his lost crew come across strange things in the open sea. The cast of characters isn't restricted to Odysseus: we hear from his wife Penelope, his son Telemachus, the hero Achilles, the witches Circe and Calypso, the cyclops Odysseus blinded, and even Theseus, who killed the Cretan minotaur. I never read The Odyssey and while I imagine reading it would have enhanced my experience (especially in telling apart Homer and Mason\u2019s imaginations), I don\u2019t feel like being ignorant of it hindered The Lost Book's effect on me at all. I was moved (even to tears) by Odysseus\u2019 story and mesmerized by the prose, and I would love to get lost inside these pages again. ...more This book, a collection of \"inserts\" into the canonical Odyssey of Homer, is nearly as good as the press. It takes selected moments of the Odyssey, more or less, and reimagines them-- so we get the Cyclops story from the POV of the cyclops, etc. It's the more where it gets interesting, though: a chapter about Odysseus' courtship of Penelope is weird and wonderful and almost makes you think you just never heard this part of the story before. Another chapter somehow connects the Odyssey with These This book, a collection of \"inserts\" into the canonical Odyssey of Homer, is nearly as good as the press. It takes selected moments of the Odyssey, more or less, and reimagines them-- so we get the Cyclops story from the POV of the cyclops, etc. It's the more where it gets interesting, though: a chapter about Odysseus' courtship of Penelope is weird and wonderful and almost makes you think you just never heard this part of the story before. Another chapter somehow connects the Odyssey with Theseus encounter with the minotaur and Ariadne. It's got all kinds of interesting things happening, and at times pulls off a dangerously successful approximation of Homer's high style-- which means, in essence, there are moments when my mind wandered and I feel like the conceit, in the actual defined sense, left my brain and I was just confused-- dangerous in that way, where I zoned out the same way I do when I read the actual Odyssey. There are also, of course, pastiches of other authors-- \"Endless City,\" which I think is the last of the stories here, reads a lot like Calvino or maybe Borges. There are also lots of other weird nods in the direction of other writers. It's a book that's probably not read best all the way through, but of course that's how I, and I suspect most readers, will encounter it at least the first time through. My favorite part of the book might be the fake intro, telling the story of the lost books and referring to the likely real field of mathematics called \"combinatrics\" or something like that. These sections are presented, at least in the intro (the conclusion is a little less convincing) in perfect academese, and they are funny and mind-blowing in their content. There is, maybe unfortunately, a suggestion there about how to order the books, on the basis of what key terms they engage, that the book actually doesn't follow through on-- I kind of wish it had. The order of stories to me was somewhat arbitrary, in the sense that I don't think they worked together all that well, and I feel like that's one area in which this book could've been improved. But mostly, I found it a delight to read and think about. It's one I'll probably buy a copy of, too, so I can read parts of it again. ...more Novels can contain the world. It\u2019s one thing they can do better than any other medium. Their four-century head start translates to a much longer historical context than television, film, or anything online, and thus novelists have more to \u201cplay with\u201d and readers more to \u201cread against.\u201d When we think of the acceleration of the city space in the wake of the industrial revolution, do we think of silent films? Or radio plays? I would argue Joyce and Woolf expressed the age better than anyone else thr Novels can contain the world. It\u2019s one thing they can do better than any other medium. Their four-century head start translates to a much longer historical context than television, film, or anything online, and thus novelists have more to \u201cplay with\u201d and readers more to \u201cread against.\u201d When we think of the acceleration of the city space in the wake of the industrial revolution, do we think of silent films? Or radio plays? I would argue Joyce and Woolf expressed the age better than anyone else through their formal inventions and all-encompassing narratives. (I will always associate stream-of-consciousness with urbanites\u2019 interior monologues.) And yet I spent much of 2009 thinking about new media. Transmedia texts would be inherently better because of\u2026 what? Their novelty? This is a common fallacy (especially online). There are exciting inroads in this space, but they\u2019ve got nothing on what novels can do. And are doing. I remember Sam Tenenhaus saying Roberto Bola\u00f1o\u2019s 2666 was great because it captured our fragmented, internet-addled expression of reality. I would say Zachary Mason\u2019s The Lost Books of the Odyssey does the same. This slim work doesn\u2019t need images, or hyperlinks, or video animations to make it \u201cbetter,\u201d it\u2019s already at the peak of its art as a novel. It can be tersely described as a Borgesian fan fiction approach to Homer. (This plays well on Twitter.) But I would also argue its episodic structure, sidelong approach to canonical myths \u2013 an iterative text built upon the urtext \u2013 and its conception by a computer scientist make Zachary Mason\u2019s novel a consummate evocation of the novel in 2010. It contains the modern world, though slyly, furtively. Like a Jasper Johns flag painting, Mason uses a totemic story as a tabula rasa to allow room for the reader to investigate the how of the book: its formal qualities are front and center, and its these that perfectly capture the associative, intuitive approach to what makes a \u201cstory.\u201d Mason has duplicated the experience of rabbit-hole internet consumption. ...more \"The Lost Books of the Odyssey\" retells and embellishes Odysseus's long life in a random sequence of stories. The mythic hero is often presented from the inside out so the reader gets into his head, and is sometimes viewed from the outside, such as by Athena who knows him better than he knows himself or by Polyphemus who laments being some raider's victim. The stories might be palimpsests, a later adventure echoing an earlier or later one: an aged Odysseus retraces his homeward journey backwards \"The Lost Books of the Odyssey\" retells and embellishes Odysseus's long life in a random sequence of stories. The mythic hero is often presented from the inside out so the reader gets into his head, and is sometimes viewed from the outside, such as by Athena who knows him better than he knows himself or by Polyphemus who laments being some raider's victim. The stories might be palimpsests, a later adventure echoing an earlier or later one: an aged Odysseus retraces his homeward journey backwards (Phaeacia, Ogygia, Aiaia, and the Cyclops' island), Alexander the Great compares and contrasts himself with Achilles and Odysseus when the Battle of Gaugamela in Persia is about to ensue, the staff of a rehabilitation sanatorium flees its sick patients before Troy is invaded, the changing design of chess pieces recalls the \"Iliad\" or the \"Odyssey\", Odysseus imagines a desolated Ithaca, and characters return to Ilium's barren and weathered plain or else to the commercial remaking of it. Different stories take liberties with the characters' identities: Penelope might be a ghost or a temporary stand-in for Helen, Telemachus disappears in a canoe; an amnesiac Odysseus unearths and reads the \"Odyssey\" before burning this link to who he is. These inventive, dreamlike stories are an entertaining pastiche of Homer's epic. ...more<---C>Zachary Mason</---C><+++>The Lost Books of The Odyssey</+++>", "Title": "The Lost Books of The Odyssey"},
