{"Comments": "From a blog post I wrote in 2006: As part of my weekend binge reading, I plowed through the first four books in Mary Janice Davidson's Undead...<---F> series</---F>. The titles are: Undead and Unemployed,<---M> Undead and Unwed</---M>, Undead and Unappreciated and <+++>Undead and Unreturnable</+++>. Davidson combined two of my favorite genres, Chick Lit and Vampire, into a wonderful series. The main character, Betsy Taylor, gets hit be a car on her 30th birthday and wakes up in a coffin at the funeral home. What concerns her most is From a blog post I wrote in 2006: As part of my weekend binge reading, I plowed through the first four books in Mary Janice Davidson's Undead... series. The titles are: Undead and Unemployed, Undead and Unwed, Undead and Unappreciated and <+++>Undead and Unreturnable</+++>. Davidson combined two of my favorite genres, Chick Lit and Vampire, into a wonderful series. The main character, Betsy Taylor, gets hit be a car on her 30th birthday and wakes up in a coffin at the funeral home. What concerns her most is not that she's dead (<---B>or undead if you want to be picky</---B>) but that she's dressed in a polyester suit and shoes from Payless. She eventually finds that she's the prophesized Queen of the Vampires. What follows are several adventures where she spends most of her time critiquing the wardrobe choices of her friends and foes and stressing over her men troubles. If you've read the Shopaholic books, you've got the idea. Despite bumbling through and thinking mostly about herself, she manages to resolve all of the issues. Lots of fun supporting characters (including the very hot King of the Vampires) in these books and each one has a little mini-story of its own. Not too much with the gore but there is sex (always a good thing) and some violence. I liked these a lot and my friend, Chris, has the 5th book already. I can't wait to get a hold of it. ...more \"See, things started out innocently enough \u2014 a visitor, a comment, finding out a new vampire rule \u2014 and the next thing I know, I'm up to my tits in undead politics, or attempted revolutions, or dead bodies.\" The Queen Betsy series is still very entertaining, although sometimes I have to turn back the pages to recall what had happened? It is not boring, but still, the story is about only the daily life of Betsy and her housemates. Let\u2019s see in details! Meanwhile Betsy\u2019s lovelorn admirer, the ex- \"See, things started out innocently enough \u2014 a visitor, a comment, finding out a new vampire rule \u2014 and the next thing I know, I'm up to my tits in undead politics, or attempted revolutions, or dead bodies.\" The Queen Betsy series is still very entertaining, although sometimes I have to turn back the pages to recall what had happened? It is not boring, but still, the story is about only the daily life of Betsy and her housemates. Let\u2019s see in details! Meanwhile Betsy\u2019s lovelorn admirer, the ex-blade-warrior-now-a-biography-writer Jon is writing the not so fictional biography of Betsy, she babysits her brother, BabyJon, contributes to the new vampire newsletter, and she is planning the first vampire monarch wedding of all time \u2013 with her openly reluctant fianc\u00e9, Eric Sinclair. The author gives a hint about a serial killer at the beginning of the novel, so I hoped for some excitement, and maybe a connection between the murderer and Betsy, (view spoiler) [but nope\u2026 He is just an ordinary serial killer, with no awareness neither Betsy nor the vampire society. So no threatening conspiracy or coup by him. (hide spoiler) ] Betsy and Eric have a crisis, and fight after fight. My heart ached for Eric, and I could feel his fear. Actually, I\u2019m wondering what would happen if Betsy simply commanded Eric to bear that certain ability as she does. Remember, as she had managed to make him able to see ghosts in Undead and Unemployed. While the plot is lame, and nothing groundbreaking or unexpected happens, Ms. Davidson smartly builds the tension and mystery of her characters. The appearance of the old and the new secondary characters are well-balanced. I\u2019m very satisfied with the additional information about Jess. She finally dates, and it turns out that she actually has a job. Jon and Nick are back, George shows some development, Laura and her snaps are more and more interesting and creepy, and I\u2019m looking forward to reading more about Cathy. Originally posted on my blog on May 3, 2013. My favorite quotes. ...more \"Anni di vita a leggere Sposa Moderna urlarono inorriditi dentro di me, ma dannazione, non pensavo di avere tutti quei problemi.\" Dopo un paio di letture deludenti che c'\u00e8 di meglio che leggere un libro che sicuramente ti regaler\u00e0 ore di lettura divertente e spensierata? Ancora una volta mi sono immersa nelle spassose avventure della regina Betsy con il suo affascinante re e tutti gli altri fantastici personaggi! Devo dire che ogni libro mi sembra pi\u00f9 sottiletta del precedente e finisce davvero t \"Anni di vita a leggere Sposa Moderna urlarono inorriditi dentro di me, ma dannazione, non pensavo di avere tutti quei problemi.\" Dopo un paio di letture deludenti che c'\u00e8 di meglio che leggere un libro che sicuramente ti regaler\u00e0 ore di lettura divertente e spensierata? Ancora una volta mi sono immersa nelle spassose avventure della regina Betsy con il suo affascinante re e tutti gli altri fantastici personaggi! Devo dire che ogni libro mi sembra pi\u00f9 sottiletta del precedente e finisce davvero troppo presto, indi anche la storia procede a piccoli passetti (meno male che la pubblicazione va spedita!!) La trama \u00e8 leggermente fuorviante, la faccenda del killer occupa davvero poco spazio e i suoi contatti con Betsy sono quasi inesistenti figuriamoci se la prende di mira xD I problemi non mancano comunque, la nascita del fratellastro, sua sorella che sembra improvvisamente tendere al lato oscuro, il ritorno di Jon e il matrimonio in allestimento! La nostra coppia di regnanti si sono finalmente dichiarati a vicenda ma i bisticci non mancano da questioni insignificanti come chi prender\u00e0 il cognome dell'altro a problemi pi\u00f9 seri come lo scopo del misterioso viaggio in Francia di Sinclair e la rivelazione di Betsy della lettura del pensiero nei momenti di intimit\u00e0 (inutile dirlo, il riservato Sinclair NON la prender\u00e0 bene xD). Attendo il prossimo sperando di vedere finalmente questo matrimonio XD ...more 3 Stars: I got my copy from the local library and I could not believe how many error typo's are in this book. Some scenes were written so badly it was confusing. I could not tell who is speaking, or thinking. It was confusing. However, these books are hilarious! It has many redeeming qualities. The characters were likable at best neutral at worst. The writing was much better than expected. I developed an interest that withstood to the end. The plot was nice, somewhat original or had its own uniqu 3 Stars: I got my copy from the local library and I could not believe how many error typo's are in this book. Some scenes were written so badly it was confusing. I could not tell who is speaking, or thinking. It was confusing. However, these books are hilarious! It has many redeeming qualities. The characters were likable at best neutral at worst. The writing was much better than expected. I developed an interest that withstood to the end. The plot was nice, somewhat original or had its own unique flair. The writing was good, and the pretense wasn\u2019t half bad, the romance was simmering with few exceptions. The male/female lead showed hints of abuse both verbal and physical, or signs of spot on or forced chemistry. It was a tiny bit predictable. Overall, liked it enough, entertaining. ...more Re-read: January, 2013 (Audiobook edition) First read: 2008 (paperback) Gosh, how I love Betsy! I hadn't realised just how much I missed her and the rest, until I got the audiobook in an attempt to get the boyfriend to try some of my favourite stories, lol. (It's easier for him to listen than reading English, if he does pick up a book.) I think I ended up enjoying it the most though, even if he admits to kind of liking Betsy too. ;) I have to continue this series ASAP! Betsy, Sinclair (*fans self*) Re-read: January, 2013 (Audiobook edition) First read: 2008 (paperback) Gosh, how I love Betsy! I hadn't realised just how much I missed her and the rest, until I got the audiobook in an attempt to get the boyfriend to try some of my favourite stories, lol. (It's easier for him to listen than reading English, if he does pick up a book.) I think I ended up enjoying it the most though, even if he admits to kind of liking Betsy too. ;) I have to continue this series ASAP! Betsy, Sinclair (*fans self*), Jessica, George... I just can't get enough. I needed something humorous after a chaotic week and Betsy definitely delivered! From an audiobook perspective, I also thought Nancy Wu was a great narrator; portraying the characters personalities really well! ...more About the same as the others - a 2 star book that was helped a lot by Nancy Wu reading it. There's not a lot of story, reminds me of a soap opera, but it is kind of funny. Nothing remarkable, just the continuing saga... Betsy is getting married and nothing will stand in her way. There are things that are trying to intrude. Like a recently murdered ghost who want help in stopping her killer. Does Betsy do the smart thing about the killer. Of course not and poor Eric her intended groom is beside himself. This series is great fun. The audio book reader puts just the right tone of voice into her reading. The fourth book of the Queen Betsy series is where the series settles down into the episodic status quo which will be maintained for a good number of years. Eventually, Mary Janice Davidson will disrupt this status quo with some dramatic events that will polarize her fanbase. Here, however, it's just the comfortable Addams Family-esque world of the adult Buffy and her oddball collection of friends. A good idea of how the Queen Betsy books work can be explained with this book as an example. Ther The fourth book of the Queen Betsy series is where the series settles down into the episodic status quo which will be maintained for a good number of years. Eventually, Mary Janice Davidson will disrupt this status quo with some dramatic events that will polarize her fanbase. Here, however, it's just the comfortable Addams Family-esque world of the adult Buffy and her oddball collection of friends. A good idea of how the Queen Betsy books work can be explained with this book as an example. There's a serial killed loose in Minneapolis and it's not Betsy's problem. The Driveway Killer is on the loose, targeting blonde leggy women who fit Betsy's profile. This in no way impacts Betsy's life or concern until a victim's ghost physically inserts herself into Betsy's life and demands she solve the murder. Even then, Betsy forgets about it like three times. To liken the books to a television show, it's best to think of them as a supernatural Seinfeld. They're the vampire series about nothing. Events happen but the Betsy characters generally try to avoid actual plot as much as (in)humanly possible. To give you a sense of Betsy's priorities, the Driveway Killer being stopped ranks below her starting a literal advice column where she makes up the letters to her. Also, a (former) vampire hunter writing her biography which he can't publish. While Queen Betsy works entirely well as a slice-of-life comedy and romance, I also think it functions as a parody of the typical urban fantasy drama out there. In Anita Blake or other works, the serial killer is a pulse-pounding, nerve wracking drama which inevitably is revealed to be some sort of supernatural character which only our heroine can stop. Here, the Driveway Killer is a pathetic manchild with women issues. You know, like actual serial killers tend to be. It's little details like this which keep the books fresh and interesting. I love the relationship between Betsy and her sister Laura here, which gets developed in the not-hunt for the Driveway Killer. Betsy assumes Laura is the sweet and church-going better sister of the family but, in fact, Laura has a temper the size of Hell. It lays an interesting groundwork for future stories where Betsy has to reign her in and prevent her from lashing out with all of that repressed fundamentalist rage. There's actually a fairly terrifying scene where Laura almost kills Betsy, or would if not for the fact she's the Queen of the Vampires and immune to being staked through the heart by a demon sword. It's not quite up there with Betsy getting into a fist-fight with Satanic Lena Olin but it's one of the more surprising moments of the series. Oops. This book also marks a permanent change in the relationship between Betsy and Sinclair, moving them from King and Queen in name only to something more permanent. I really like the relationship between these two as the irreverent Betsy makes a good contrast to the more traditional vampire Sinclair. The back and forth between the two could have been dragged out indefinitely but while I didn't much care for their fight over telepathy (she has it, he doesn't), I felt the change at the end of the book really worked. What makes Sinclair and Betsy's relationship work so well? I think it has to do with the fact they're both flawed people who play off each other well but also compromise a lot. In a lot of paranormal romance, the male is either idealized perfect or controlling. Sinclair is constantly learning to give up control as a vampire but unafraid to apologize when he's being a dick. Well, eventually unafraid to apologize. Likewise, he does have feelings which Betsy often hurts by her unfamiliarity with vampirism. In conclusion, Undead and Unreturnable is a fun book and another great installment in a stand-out series of comedic hi-jinks. Nothing really happens much in this boo but that's kind of the point. While not quite as enjoyable as Undead and Unwed, I still had a lot of fun with this book and think you will too. 8/10 ...more While Eric Sinclair considered them consorts and not in need of a wedding ceremony, Elizabeth (Betsy) Taylor had always dreamed of her wedding day. She was having a wedding, she was the Queen Vampire and no one was going to stand in her way of having that dream wedding. Not her new born baby brother, not the growing friendship with her half sister (the devil\u2019s spawn), not the vampire fiend living in the basement, not the human serial killer, not the new ghost checking out all of her shoes, and d While Eric Sinclair considered them consorts and not in need of a wedding ceremony, Elizabeth (Betsy) Taylor had always dreamed of her wedding day. She was having a wedding, she was the Queen Vampire and no one was going to stand in her way of having that dream wedding. Not her new born baby brother, not the growing friendship with her half sister (the devil\u2019s spawn), not the vampire fiend living in the basement, not the human serial killer, not the new ghost checking out all of her shoes, and definitely not her intended groom. Everything seemed to be working against this wedding that she had already rescheduled, more than once, but with determination she would succeed. The solution to some of the obstacles might be finding and helping her cop friend catch the \u201cDriveway Killer\u201d Book 4 \u2026.. Another humorous break from the seriousness of most paranormal romance novels. This one went really fast, I was almost surprised to find myself done. As always, Queen Betsy is the Shop-aholic shoe aficionado with a strange twist of her own on being a vampire. I really enjoyed George\u2019s contributions (the vampire fiend in the basement). Entertainment value is there, as always I liked the laughs, there wasn\u2019t really a clear main story to this book. Format reminded me of a soap opera, bouncing from one story line to another with little bits of overlap and some cross over between them. Haven\u2019t decided if this kind of mix works for me, so I guess I will have to read the next one (Undead and Unpopular) to try and figure it out. ...more what can you say about a vampire queen whose loyalty can be bought by designer shoes? this book was a disappointment of sorts for me. i mean, dont get me wrong...i am absolutely in l o v e with this series. but it's possible that after finishing the last book with all of the new action and romance i built up too much suspense for myself waiting for this book to arrive for me. and although it was a good read (finished it in a day, i'm proud to say) it was a surprising bump in the series. this boo what can you say about a vampire queen whose loyalty can be bought by designer shoes? this book was a disappointment of sorts for me. i mean, dont get me wrong...i am absolutely in l o v e with this series. but it's possible that after finishing the last book with all of the new action and romance i built up too much suspense for myself waiting for this book to arrive for me. and although it was a good read (finished it in a day, i'm proud to say) it was a surprising bump in the series. this book was a new experience for me. never have i found a book in this series that i have been able to willingly put down. there were some parts of the prevous books that made me feel like i couldn't put it down to save a life. and this one...well, let's just say that there weren't any feelings of that sort around here. but who am i to judge, maybe (cross my fingers) maryjanice davidson is holding back for something. maybe (fingers still crossed) this book was lacking because the next book is going to be so outrageously tremendous that she didn't want to overwhelm us. heh. either way, it could have been better. like i said before, it didn't suck...not in the least bit. but here's to hoping that the next book will be delightful, and dare i say more interesting? ...more Still in love :P I thought that as I read this series that I might end up losing interest. So many series start off amazing and then turn blah. While there's nothing earth-shattering about Betsy's story, it's still a fun, light read. New problems arised between all people around and yet again there's a killer on the loose. Part of me wonders why there are so many freaks and sociopaths running around in Betsy's world, but I'll let it go because I love this series. It's still hilarious. I absolutely Still in love :P I thought that as I read this series that I might end up losing interest. So many series start off amazing and then turn blah. While there's nothing earth-shattering about Betsy's story, it's still a fun, light read. New problems arised between all people around and yet again there's a killer on the loose. Part of me wonders why there are so many freaks and sociopaths running around in Betsy's world, but I'll let it go because I love this series. It's still hilarious. I absolutely adore Betsy and Sinclair together still. I felt like what the book lacked in plot/action it made up for in character devolopment. The two had a nasty fight. It was good because who likes to read a book where they are in happily ever after the whole time. It's not interesting and most importantly it's not realistic. There were some parts where I thought that Sinclair was acting terribly douchtastic. However when he explained himself, I was able to understand more. I still thought he overreacted a bit, but I get his point. Going to reserve the next book! Hopefully there is more George the fiend. I missed him in this book, but I have a feeling something big's gonna happen to him in the coming books. Can't wait to see what crap befalls Betsy in the next book.... ...more As Christmas approaches, Betsy has more on her mind than Queenly duties. There's still shopping to be done, a Christmas tree to put up in Jessica's house (to the horror of the vamps that reside there!) and her new baby step-brother. There's also a wedding to plan (she keeps pushing back the date she'll make it official with Sinclair), the matter of former-Bee Jon wanting to write her life's story for a college class, the reappearnce of vampire librarian Marjorie who wants her to write a column f As Christmas approaches, Betsy has more on her mind than Queenly duties. There's still shopping to be done, a Christmas tree to put up in Jessica's house (to the horror of the vamps that reside there!) and her new baby step-brother. There's also a wedding to plan (she keeps pushing back the date she'll make it official with Sinclair), the matter of former-Bee Jon wanting to write her life's story for a college class, the reappearnce of vampire librarian Marjorie who wants her to write a column for the new vamp-based newsletter, and that god-awful Book of the Dead. Add to that some other problems--there's a murderer called the Driveway Killer loose in Minneapolis, Sinclair isn't too happy about finding out that Betsy can hear his thoughts during their \"intimate\" moments, and Jessica is dating Detective Nick--and you have another comedy of errors starring the Queen of the Vampires. This book is typical <---A>MaryJanice Davidson</---A>; funny, sarcastic, and full of snarky dialogue. Add to that Eric Sinclair's delicious \"metrosexuality\", and it's another winner. ...more Some people criticized Undead and Unreturnable because it didn't really have a strong plot (if the other books had more, I must have missed it somehow), but considering how many times I laughed out loud (well, really, it was more like barking\u2014what with the sinus infection and all), it just wasn't a big issue for me. These books just make me smile, and sometimes that's enough. Which isn't to say there isn't any meaningful content to them, of course. And absolutely, hands down, the best line of the Some people criticized Undead and Unreturnable because it didn't really have a strong plot (if the other books had more, I must have missed it somehow), but considering how many times I laughed out loud (well, really, it was more like barking\u2014what with the sinus infection and all), it just wasn't a big issue for me. These books just make me smile, and sometimes that's enough. Which isn't to say there isn't any meaningful content to them, of course. And absolutely, hands down, the best line of the book was Eric's response to Betsy about choosing wedding flowers: \"Darling, I have a penis. Ergo I have no preferences.\" I think I hurt myself laughing at that one . . . he sounds just like my husband. Aside from the part where he's an extremely gorgeous vampire, that is. :-D 8/10 ...more I was really excited when I read the back of the book and found out Betsey would be tracking down a serial killer, but was extremely disappointed with the book as a whole. It spent minimal time on the actual serial killer plot line and just dragged on and on. I usually listen to books on tape when I travel and it was very difficult for me to say interested in the book even though I didn't even have to put the effort into reading the words off the page. And when the book did finally get around to I was really excited when I read the back of the book and found out Betsey would be tracking down a serial killer, but was extremely disappointed with the book as a whole. It spent minimal time on the actual serial killer plot line and just dragged on and on. I usually listen to books on tape when I travel and it was very difficult for me to say interested in the book even though I didn't even have to put the effort into reading the words off the page. And when the book did finally get around to revealing the killer I was very vauge to why the killer was doing it. Overall I was very disappointed in the book and wish more of the book was devoted to the serial killer plot rather than the day to day going on's of Betsey's life. ...more This will be my last Queen Betsy book. As much as I like the characters, there was just no plot here! You get a few promises of interesting stuff that might happen later, particularly with Betsy\u2019s sister (the daughter of the devil), but nothing actually happens. I expected there to be a lot more involvement between Betsy and Nick as they search for the Driveway Killer, but instead, it\u2019s all wrapped up inside of a chapter in a pretty anti-climatic way. Oh yeah, you get some expected bickering bet This will be my last Queen Betsy book. As much as I like the characters, there was just no plot here! You get a few promises of interesting stuff that might happen later, particularly with Betsy\u2019s sister (the daughter of the devil), but nothing actually happens. I expected there to be a lot more involvement between Betsy and Nick as they search for the Driveway Killer, but instead, it\u2019s all wrapped up inside of a chapter in a pretty anti-climatic way. Oh yeah, you get some expected bickering between Betsy and Sinclair, but that\u2019s pretty much par for the course now. There wasn\u2019t even any vampire politics. So I\u2019m no longer wasting my time. ...more Well Betsy went and done it again, created bundles of laughter with her undead life!!! I love the way MaryJanice Davidson writes these books, the thrill of romance, the joy of laughter and the touch of mystery all combined gives for a delicious novel!!! This time Betsy makes good with Laura, baby Jon, big Jon, and of course the regular gang. There is a murderer on the loose and ghosts to help Betsy solve the crime. Laura has a few moments with her mother (Mrs Devil) and a spat with George (who I l Well Betsy went and done it again, created bundles of laughter with her undead life!!! I love the way MaryJanice Davidson writes these books, the thrill of romance, the joy of laughter and the touch of mystery all combined gives for a delicious novel!!! This time Betsy makes good with Laura, baby Jon, big Jon, and of course the regular gang. There is a murderer on the loose and ghosts to help Betsy solve the crime. Laura has a few moments with her mother (Mrs Devil) and a spat with George (who I love so much!!!)... Sinclair of course is a petty sod at times but still wins me out in the end... Once again I am left with smiles and looking forward to the next book... ...more A serial killer is loose in the Twin Cities, murdering tall, blonde women, and Betsy is vaguely interested in stopping him. But, mostly, she\u2019s interested in hanging out with her vampire pals and getting to know her long-lost devil-spawn sister, and helping Jessica get a date. Which is fun to read about, but really, really fluffy and insubstantial. Which is just what a person needs sometimes. Frothy funny fiction. Betsy is fun and pretty brainless. I enjoy the stories enough to pick them up between other books but I really can't recommend them for anything but a bit of fun and fluff. There is more relationship drama with Eric in this one and lots of make up sex :D. I can't say Betsy is really growing in power since her biggies seem to be talking to ghosts and not being able to be killed like a normal vampire. I'll probably keep reading the series off and on but I have many others ahead of it right now. This was was a little 'disjointed'. The different stories going on just didn't seem to mesh together. Who cares that the Driveway Killer was targeting women who fit Betsy's profile if he never came after her?! I mean, was anyone else expecting that?! Could have been a hilarious scene! Anyways, it was just lacking somewhere, so I found I didn't like it as much as the others. Still moved straight into the next one though, hope it picks back up a little. Chronique Compl\u00e9te. Une lecture d\u00e9tente qui met davantage le c\u00f4t\u00e9 chick-lit de la s\u00e9rie en avant au d\u00e9triment de tout le reste. Des personnages inchang\u00e9s pour la majorit\u00e9 mais ceux qui ont droit \u00e0 une \u00e9volution titille notre curiosit\u00e9. Betsy Talor ist f\u00fcr mich immer wieder lesenswert. Ich mag sie einfach aber dieser Teil war ziemlich kurz und hatte eine eher stagnierende Handlung. Er ist nicht schlecht, recht solide und witzig wie immer. Ich bereue nicht es gelesen zu haben, hoffe aber trotzdem das der n\u00e4chste Teil wieder besser wird. 3 stars for book 4. Not much going on in this one. Average story not much action. Beginning books Betsy avoiding Eric now Eric avoiding Betsy. This is Book 4 and we are still reading about a wedding, maybe? Since I like book series and already purchased books 5-6-7-8-9. I'll continue onto book 5. I really like this series. So light and airy a vampire story. Vampires are still homicidal (and evil some of the time). But never let it be said being \"undead\" stopped you from going to the sales. LOL! The author believes kidnapping and rape to be romantic and sexy methods of gaining a spouse. Any reasonable person will forgo this author so they don't throw up from the message that abuse and sexual assault are ways to show you care. Really liked this one. The plot was there and there wasn't too much superfluous paranormal stuff going one. I think it was the wedding planning. How could there be anything less normal than wedding planning which only the bride cares about? I am really enjoying this series.. The main character cracks me up. I can't wait to see what happens next OK, I didn't finish reading it but I couldn't get past the nonsense writing, the stupidity of the characters and the vulgarity. All I can say is I tried. toujours aussi g\u00e9nial I love Betsy and Jessica and Laura! It's like a short story in a book! Oh, I'm torn! At times I just hate myself for reading this cheap stick chick lit crap. I'm beneath contempt! But at other times I find it quite fun and really like some of the characters. Not Betsy so much perhaps (though she's OK I guess) and certainly not Eric Sink Lair (don't get the \"attraction\" of him at all), but sideliners like George the crocheting fiend and Majorie the very, very, very old vampire librarian with the spooky eyes and dangerous ways. Something tells me she's gonna bite the Oh, I'm torn! At times I just hate myself for reading this cheap stick chick lit crap. I'm beneath contempt! But at other times I find it quite fun and really like some of the characters. Not Betsy so much perhaps (though she's OK I guess) and certainly not Eric Sink Lair (don't get the \"attraction\" of him at all), but sideliners like George the crocheting fiend and Majorie the very, very, very old vampire librarian with the spooky eyes and dangerous ways. Something tells me she's gonna bite the dust when Betsy gets her chaotic butt into gear. I kinda look forward to that. AND despise myself for it. Darn! It's a loose loose situation! ...more<---C>Tina</---C>", "Title": "Undead and Unreturnable"},
