{"Comments": "3 1/2 stars.<---F> Okay, listen up</---F>. This book is not the next Gone Girl . Don't let anyone tell you that. It just isn't. It's not that kind of twisty, secretive book at all. It's the kind of fast-paced, pulpy read that plays with your emotions without ever making you think too hard. But,<---M> so help me</---M>, I could not put it down . karen nailed it when she described this book as being fuelled by its action, not its suspense. The story actually gives up its secrets almost immediately - in fact, most of you proba 3 1/2 stars. Okay, listen up. This book is not the next Gone Girl . Don't let anyone tell you that. It just isn't. It's not that kind of twisty, secretive book at all. It's the kind of fast-paced, pulpy read that plays with your emotions without ever making you think too hard. But, so help me, I could not put it down . karen nailed it when she described this book as being fuelled by its action, not its suspense. The story actually gives up its secrets almost immediately - in fact, most of you probably figured it out after reading the blurb, right? It's not rocket science. And yet, this is a real strength here. The pages flew by in my desperate need to know what happens next. It is an extremely emotional read with potential triggers*. I can't remember the last time a book made me feel such an all-consuming, visceral hatred for a character . I could feel my emotions bubbling up from the pit of my stomach; I could feel my heart pounding with fury and fear. Because this is a truly frightening book , a disturbing book. Scarier than any horror with demons and monsters. It is an awful, exciting ride of terror. But a certain suspension of disbelief is a must. It is neither the most realistic book, nor the most deeply meaningful. There are some black and white aspects to the characterization - (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [The guy is an evil psychopath. And while this is not completely unrealistic and I could believe he would go to such trouble to create his \"fantasy\", the mindless villainy of him, plus his penchant for showmanship, verges on a caricature. (hide spoiler) ] Between the breakneck pacing and the emotional nature of the read (Grace's love for her sister with Down's syndrome is particularly heart-wrenching), my eyes were glued to the pages. Sometimes I saw some things coming before they happened but, rather than feeling \"spoiled\", this meant I just had to sit and watch the car crash happen with no way to do anything about it. Yeah, what can I say? - I loved it. I know, I know, it's not even that fantastic, but I still want to recommend it. And I thought the ending was just perfect... the kind of perfect that makes you do an evil little smile. However, if you are looking for a dark, edgy read but are put off by the lack of depth in this one - try The Butterfly Garden instead. *Triggers & warnings: (view spoiler) [Severe psychological abuse; non-violent but very disturbing. There is also a dog - I'll just leave it at that *sob* (hide spoiler) ] Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Store ...more I finished this book late last night and I still can't stop thinking about it. I have been wanting to read <+++>Behind Closed Doors</+++> for quite some time. When it was available on NetGalley I requested it right away but unfortunately was denied. I think that just made me want it more! So when I finally got my hands on it I just had to put everything else aside and start reading. And I was pulled in right away. ***Possibly some minor spoilers but I honestly tried my best!!!*** \"The perfect marriage or the I finished this book late last night and I still can't stop thinking about it. I have been wanting to read <+++>Behind Closed Doors</+++> for quite some time. When it was available on NetGalley I requested it right away but unfortunately was denied. I think that just made me want it more! So when I finally got my hands on it I just had to put everything else aside and start reading. And I was pulled in right away. ***Possibly some minor spoilers but I honestly tried my best!!!*** \"The perfect marriage or the perfect lie?\" The story alternates between the present and past and is told from Grace's point of view. The past only a few months before Grace and Jack get married. The book starts in the present. Husband-and-wife, Jack and Grace Angel are hosting a dinner for two other couples. One couple are old friends of Jack's and another couple is new to the area. Everyone marvels over dinner and the house. When talk turns to Jack's job as a lawyer, everyone congratulates him on his most recent conviction. Jack champions battered wives and has never lost a case. \"I have nothing but contempt for men who are found to be violent towards their wives\", Jack says firmly. \"They deserve everything they get.\" But of course things aren't always what they seem. As the title suggests we do not know what goes on behind closed doors. Is Grace Angel an example of a woman who has it all? A perfect house, a perfect husband, the perfect life? Grace serves an extravagant meal and both her and Jack are wonderful hosts. Grace makes sure that everything goes flawlessly. The food is wonderful, she asks all the right questions and answers all questions perfectly. We learn more about Jack and Grace and how they got together. They met about 6 months before at a park Grace frequently went to with her 17-year-old sister, Millie. They liked to go there as there was often a band playing and Millie loves music. Millie was enjoying the music and started dancing. After a few minutes, though her dancing seemed to annoy a few people. Grace was just about to ask Millie to stop when Jack came out of nowhere, dancing with Millie and charming everyone watching, including Grace. Grace's sister Millie has Down's syndrome and and can be very spontaneous. When Jack came to her rescue instead of people staring they started to clap, leading to a very special moment. Both Grace and Millie fell almost immediately in love with Jack. At first Grace was hesitant to get involved in a relationship. Her sister Millie boards at a school that she loves and where she is well taken care of. Unfortunately, when she turns 18 she's no longer eligible to remain living there. Grace's parents want to find alternate living accommodations for Millie as they want to be free to travel. However, Grace does not want that and has promised to take care of Millie herself. But when Jack proposes he says he understands that Grace and Millie are a package deal and that he loves Millie and will be happy to take care along with Grace. When talk turns to Millie coming to live with though, Grace seems more nervous than excited. Jack really seems like the perfect man. Not just handsome and charming but loving and caring. On the day of their wedding Millie falls down the stairs and must go to the hospital. Grace is frantic and considers putting off the wedding but Jack convinces her that while Millie has a hurt leg and won't be able to attend the wedding, she is otherwise okay. Jack and Grace go ahead with the wedding. After that they are off immediately to Thailand for their honeymoon. And the nightmare begins... I may have said it before about other books but this really took hold of me. I was constantly thinking about it or talking about it. One of my best friends and my mom let me go on and on as I got further into the book. Neither of them were going to read the book but they ended up being quite interested in the story once I started telling them about it. My mom actually phoned me at one point asked me what had happened next. The book covers some difficult topics and can be hard to read about. However, I really found that the author did a wonderful job of telling them the story in a chilling way, but without going overboard with graphic descriptions. It's hard to explain but it was still just as terrifying and kept me on the edge of my seat. \"Fear is the best deterrent of all\" Honestly this is a fantastic psychological thriller, complete with a monster so sadistic. I had no idea what was going to happen next. Every time I put the book down I tried to figure out how this horrible monster would possibly be defeated. Going over and over different scenarios in my head. The characters were so well developed. I absolutely loved Grace's sister Millie. She stole my heart. Although I questioned some of Grace's decisions, It felt like one of those situations where you couldn't possibly know how you would react unless it was happening to you. There may be some things that may not seem completely realistic or believable but I didn't care. I've read things and seen things on the news that seemed like they could not possibly be real. Yet they were. I tried not to analyze everything to decide if it could realistically happen that way. I just went with it and enjoyed the ride. Honestly, in my opinion this was worth the wait. I'm very excited for this author's next book. ...more congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best mystery/thriller AND debut author categories 2016! women's health calls this book \"2016's ANSWER TO GONE GIRL\" dear women's health - please leave the readers' advisory work to trained professionals and stick to telling us how much water we should be drinking. for our vaginas. this is nothing like Gone Girl . it's nothing like The Girl on the Train . i'm not even sure this can be classified as psychological suspense, really. this is a straight-up thril congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best mystery/thriller AND debut author categories 2016! women's health calls this book \"2016's ANSWER TO GONE GIRL\" dear women's health - please leave the readers' advisory work to trained professionals and stick to telling us how much water we should be drinking. for our vaginas. this is nothing like Gone Girl . it's nothing like The Girl on the Train . i'm not even sure this can be classified as psychological suspense, really. this is a straight-up thriller. and there ain't a thing in the world wrong with that, except when people like women's health start getting a little loosey goosey with their suggestions and ruining the reputation of readers' advisory for everybody. ice cream is good. cheese is good. both are dairy products. but telling someone, \"oh, you like ice cream?? here, have some cheese!\" is setting up an expectation that can at best end in confusion but more likely to result in resentment and murder. and as much as i hate to use this review space to rant about something only tangentially related to the book, these things matter to me. plus, this is one of those books where i can already hear the shrieking of the people about how all of the spoilers in the world are being spoiled by me so it's probably best for me to do this instead. i am absolutely fine with calling this a marriage thriller or a psychological thriller, but the word \"suspense\" and the wrong readalikes set up certain expectations that will be unmet by this book. the focus of this book is the \"perfect\" marriage of jack and grace angel: he is a handsome lawyer specializing in domestic abuse who has never lost a case while she is beautiful and demure, retired from her high-powered career to transfer her accomplishments to the realm of the domestic arts: souffl\u00e9 baking, painting, gardening, and entertaining; awaiting the day her special needs sister millie will turn eighteen, leave her boarding school, and come to live with them in their perfect house and be a part of their perfect life. and that would be a terribly boring book without some conflict lurking underneath. the synopsis up there pretty much tells you all you need to know about what's really going on, but i'll repost it here in spoiler tags just in case: (view spoiler) [ Everyone knows a couple like Jack and Grace. He has looks and wealth, she has charm and elegance. You might not want to like them, but you do. Though, you\u2019d like to get to know Grace better. But it\u2019s difficult, because you realise Jack and Grace are never apart. Some might call this true love. Others might ask why Grace never answers the phone. Or how she can never meet for coffee, even though she doesn\u2019t work. How she can cook such elaborate meals but remain so slim. And why there are bars on one of the bedroom windows. Sometimes, the perfect marriage is the perfect lie. (hide spoiler) ] so, you're a smart kid - you can do the math on that and figure out what's what. (and, okay, so it's a little bit like Gone Girl , but only the (view spoiler) [kidnapped by doogie (hide spoiler) ] parts.) psychological suspense novels like Gone Girl are characterized by the destabilizing effect they have on their reader; where tension is built and maintained through misdirection and the manipulation of narrative twists, keeping the reader guessing, uncertain about what's actually going on, where the story is headed, if the narrator can be trusted. the appeal of this book doesn't lie in its suspense at all, but in its action. after the initial discovery; once you know what you know (it's a relatively early reveal but i'll continue to play coy), the plot doesn't deviate from that scenario. this book is about this one thing and everything that logically follows that one thing. the fun of this book is not in figuring anything out, but in watching it unfold in its absolutely relentless pacing; one of those white-knuckle, edge of your seat reads where the story is broken up between the past and the present, as the time between those two periods narrows, bringing the two stories together for the dramatic explosion. it's the literary parallel of the lifetime movie. in which assessment there is no pejorative value judgment implied - it is a marriage thriller, after all. my only quibble (view spoiler) [is that i don't buy into that gothic romance novel convention of the irredeemably wicked man whose fa\u00e7ade is flawless. i don't believe in pure unmitigated evil that doesn't leave a trace; this The Picture of Dorian Gray -type of situation where a man is just sooo handsome and gallant that no one has a clue about his innate wickedness. do i believe there are sociopaths who can \"pass?\" oh, absolutely. but a man whose only interest is in locking up and torturing a woman with down's syndrome who is melodramatic enough to decorate her bloodred cell with paintings he's forced her sister to paint of his battered clients? that kind of theatricality will out itself somewhere along the way. if he were more dispassionate in his predilections, maybe, but that kind of showmanship, and the way he toys with grace is so risky - she could have had a breakdown at any moment when he was parading her in front of dinner guests and blurted something out or showed a crack in her own perfection that would invite suspicion and scrutiny. it's a little silly, but it is indeed a sort of modern take on those old gothic romance novels or, again, a lifetime movie: a gullible young ingenue is led astray by a handsome but irredeemably wicked man with sadistic inclinations, and how she eventually rises up and triumphs over his murderous ass. (hide spoiler) ] not terrifically realistic, but that doesn't mean it's not a lot of fun. but it also doesn't mean it's anything like Gone Girl . at all. 3.5 stars from me.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Behind Closed Doors is terribly frightening. Especially since it\u2019s not far-fetched. It\u2019s realistic in a scary, can\u2019t-fall-in-love-blindly-anymore and I-need-to-scrutinize-my-boyfriend kind of way. It\u2019s terrifying because it\u2019s a story that could happen to anyone. Even the most vigilant of human beings can be duped by a genuine smile and gentlemanly gestures. I stayed up all night to finish this book, which shows how determined I was to see how everything would play out in the end for Grace and \u2018\u2018Jac Behind Closed Doors is terribly frightening. Especially since it\u2019s not far-fetched. It\u2019s realistic in a scary, can\u2019t-fall-in-love-blindly-anymore and I-need-to-scrutinize-my-boyfriend kind of way. It\u2019s terrifying because it\u2019s a story that could happen to anyone. Even the most vigilant of human beings can be duped by a genuine smile and gentlemanly gestures. I stayed up all night to finish this book, which shows how determined I was to see how everything would play out in the end for Grace and \u2018\u2018Jackass\u2019\u2019 Jack. This isn\u2019t the sort of thriller I\u2019m used to reading. Though it\u2019s somewhat action-driven, it has a creepily calm atmosphere that is meant to deceive the reader in the beginning. However, as the story progresses and more is revealed to us, it doesn\u2019t bother to lull us into the web of lies and make-believe that is Grace and \u2018\u2018Jackass\u2019\u2019 Jack\u2019s marriage anymore. No, the narration becomes all about Grace trying to escape her fate. About her doing everything in her means to prevail at this game of life and death she never wanted any part of. I\u2019m used to something more intense, more dramatic\u2026 less quiet. And perhaps that\u2019s why Behind Closed Doors affected me in such a way. Sometimes \u2018\u2018intense\u2019\u2019 and \u2018\u2018dramatic\u2019\u2019 can lead to unbelievable . But quiet, pretence, being so close to freedom \u2013 almost smelling it \u2013 but having it denied and trying to freeze the days for the impending death day never to happen\u2026. that\u2019s\u2026 that\u2019s scary. Well, I think I will take a little hiatus from reading more books of this genre. I can\u2019t hide that I\u2019m a bit shaken right now and will need time to reshape my mind into going back to thinking that life is beautiful. That was an amazing, emotional ending. It almost gave me a heart attack, but oh well. Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin\u2019 ...more 4 Stars!! \"\u2018Fear,\u2019 he whispered. \u2018There is nothing quite like it. I love how it looks, I love how it feels, I love how it smells. And I especially love the sound of it.\u2019 I felt his tongue on my cheek. \u2018I even love the taste of it.\u2019\" Before starting this one keep in mind that appearances can be deceiving. \u201cBehind Closed Doors\u201d is a gripping, thought-provoking thriller with some psychological and mystery elements that will keep you at the edge of your seat. The story has some interesting twists 4 Stars!! \"\u2018Fear,\u2019 he whispered. \u2018There is nothing quite like it. I love how it looks, I love how it feels, I love how it smells. And I especially love the sound of it.\u2019 I felt his tongue on my cheek. \u2018I even love the taste of it.\u2019\" Before starting this one keep in mind that appearances can be deceiving. \u201cBehind Closed Doors\u201d is a gripping, thought-provoking thriller with some psychological and mystery elements that will keep you at the edge of your seat. The story has some interesting twists and turns and I have to say it has a good, solid plot that will keep you entertained from the beginning. B. A. Paris delivered an interesting, page turner thriller that will almost give you anxiety attacks. The story is written really well and overall it was a pretty addictive read! The story fallows Grace, an elegant, \u2018perfect\u2019 housewife who seems to have it all \u2013 good looks, a perfect, caring husband and a lovely home. Her husband, Jack is a gorgeous man. He\u2019s a lawyer defending abusive women. He\u2019s charismatic, a good provider and a caring, devoted husband. They don\u2019t have any kids...yet, but they are happy. At least they seem to be. Soon their family will grow when Millie, Grace\u2019s little sister who has Down\u2019s syndrome will come to live with them. They all look so happy, but not everything is as it seems. Only Grace knows what really happens behind closed doors. The story is told from Grace\u2019s POV, both in the past and in the present. At first the fact the events from the past happened only a year before the events from the preset seemed a little odd to me, but as the story progressed I ended up liking this aspect. I actually think it was pretty clever. The story is not actually gory and/or disturbing...well, not very, so prepare yourself \u201conly\u201d to be shocked. As the story unfolds, both in the past and in the present I anxiously waited for the other shoe to drop. So yeah, the story was intriguing. Some scenes were full of tension, some scenes will leave you with your mouth hanging open and some scenes will frustrate you like hell. But you will be engrossed in the story regardless. Since we\u2019re talking about a thriller/mystery, of course the story was more plot driven than character-driven. However, I think Grace and also Jack were well portrayed characters. Some of their characteristics were believable, with their flaws they felt relatable in some way or another and they were also very engaging. Grace was a likeable character for the most part, but honestly at times she was so frustrating that I really wanted to throttle her. The writing was fantastic, the pace of the story perfect for this kind of read and overall the story had a realistic vibe that made me think and almost gave me the chills. Even if the story is about a married couple, the story doesn\u2019t have any romance, which was fine by me. The story ends exactly like I expected and I liked that. In spite of that, I have to say the ending felt a little rushed. Everything was somehow too neat IMO. I would have liked to know more about some aspects in these characters\u2019 lives and also the story to be longer. Also, IMO would have been better with more psychological elements\u2026I know, I know\u2026I\u2019m greedy, but it's what I would have preferred. Overall, a great intriguing thriller! ...more Behind Closed Doors will capture your mind and keep your heart prisoner until the very last page! I finished Behind Closed Doors about half an hour ago, and my heart still feels like it\u2019s racing, probably not helped by me forgetting to breathe throughout the majority of the book. I found myself wishing I could read faster, just so I had a chance to catch my breath. Make sure you read this with a glass of wine or a box of chocolates, as they may save your life by distracting you from the story lon Behind Closed Doors will capture your mind and keep your heart prisoner until the very last page! I finished Behind Closed Doors about half an hour ago, and my heart still feels like it\u2019s racing, probably not helped by me forgetting to breathe throughout the majority of the book. I found myself wishing I could read faster, just so I had a chance to catch my breath. Make sure you read this with a glass of wine or a box of chocolates, as they may save your life by distracting you from the story long enough to remind you oxygen is an essential part of survival. My heart was pounding from stress. My feet twitched from anticipation and sheer frustration. I experienced a heightened level of anxiety throughout the whole of this book. The last few lines of this story sent shivers down my spine and I had tears in my eyes as I sat staring at the very last page. This book should come with a free oxygen mask, beta-blockers and a box of tissues. If you thrive on books that leave you feeling trapped, isolated and with no one to turn to, then this is definitely the book for you. Behind Closed Doors is sure to be a huge success, and has definitely made it into my Top Ten Books of 2015. I would like to thank the publisher, Mira UK, Harlequin (UK) Limited for allowing me a copy of this book via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. ...more I've been dying to read this book every since I first saw the blurb about it. I knew it wasn't going to be pretty and I have an un-holy attraction to books about psychos. I don't want to give up too much of the book because the biggest draw for it is the twisty parts of it. Grace has not had too much luck with men. She has a younger sister Millie who has Down's syndrome, and most men kind of back off once they realize that Grace is Millie's primary caregiver and that she isn't going to change t I've been dying to read this book every since I first saw the blurb about it. I knew it wasn't going to be pretty and I have an un-holy attraction to books about psychos. I don't want to give up too much of the book because the biggest draw for it is the twisty parts of it. Grace has not had too much luck with men. She has a younger sister Millie who has Down's syndrome, and most men kind of back off once they realize that Grace is Millie's primary caregiver and that she isn't going to change that. Then she meets Jack. Jack is a successful lawyer who defends abused women against their abusive husbands. He never loses a case. He is compared to looking like George Clooney so normal circumstances would have him having to push off the women. These ain't normal circumstances. Jack sets his sites on Grace and convinces her to marry him. He \"sweeps\" her off her feet and she can't believe how lucky she is. You know that crap is not going to last. Things get all kinds of ugly. The thing is? I never really took Jack's menacing ways seriously. I really expected him to start twirling his mustache and cackling with an evil laugh. I agree with Millie..I hate \"George Clooney.\" Then Grace. I mean for reals? She basically talked her way into an awesome job at Harrod's and we are supposed to believe that she comes across as this weak and bidding? I was hoping for a save for the ending..but nope. Just a fizzle. I'm really pissed off that this book wasn't all I had built up in my mind. Several of my friends have loved this one but I think I had it built up in my mind to being awesome and for me it sucked big pickled eggs. Booksource: After much of my begging around for this book I finally won a copy on Goodreads first reads. Miracles do happen because I didn't think anyone ever won one of those suckers. Brandie's review was the first time I noticed this book and she made me completely curious about it. Brandie has been my buddy since about the time that I joined Goodreads. She probably needs a medal for putting up with me for that long. ...more Check out more of my reviews at www.bookaddicthaven.com Whew! This was certainly one creepy and screwed up story. I expected it to be really messed up, but not in quite the way that it was. A pervasive sense of uneasiness stayed with me the entire time that I was reading this book. Creepy...Very creepy. The book opens with a dinner party at Jack and Grace's home. Jack is a successful attorney, well-known for advocating for battered women. Grace is the soft-spoken, elegant wife. Everything about th Check out more of my reviews at www.bookaddicthaven.com Whew! This was certainly one creepy and screwed up story. I expected it to be really messed up, but not in quite the way that it was. A pervasive sense of uneasiness stayed with me the entire time that I was reading this book. Creepy...Very creepy. The book opens with a dinner party at Jack and Grace's home. Jack is a successful attorney, well-known for advocating for battered women. Grace is the soft-spoken, elegant wife. Everything about their life seems to be the picture of perfection. It is all a lie. What goes on behind closed doors would shock their friends and the community. Nothing is what it seems. Jack is not the man that everyone thinks he is. Only Grace seems to be aware of his true nature and she is racing against the clock to stop him before he does worse than he already has. This story kept me on the edge of my seat right up to the very last word. There was no time wasted and the story moved quickly. It was a nice change of pace for me. I was appalled by some of the things that Jack did in this book. Yet, it was the anticipation and the fear of the unknown that was most chilling. Unlike other books dealing with abuse and sociopaths, 'Behind Closed Doors' did not provide a lot of graphic, gory details. Instead, the author chooses to give you just enough information to piece things together for yourself and leaves the rest to your imagination. If your mind is like mine, it can go to some pretty disturbing places when lead down that path. There were several times that I did want to shake Grace. Mainly, I couldn't understand how quickly she seemed to submit to Jack's will. Although, seeing how things worked out for her on the few occasions when she did try to get away did help to convince me. It was unbelievable that Jack could wield so much influence, but it worked for the storyline I suppose. Overall, this was a fantastic, fast-paced story. I listened to the Audible version and the narration was great. I highly recommend this standalone for anyone that loves a suspenseful, psychological thriller but cannot stomach the gory details. If you can keep your imagination under control, the author doesn't provide any horrendous details that will leave you scarred. You will definitely be creeped out though. Count on that. ...more UPDATE: 11-3-16 $2.99 on kindle. Not sure for how long! My initial reaction during the beginning of this book was, \"What The Hell Is Going On.\" I knew it wasn't good and I had an idea but ideas are never totally what your thinking. Jack Angel is a lawyer and his wife Grace used to be a lot of things but she's not any more. Oh, she's the perfect hostess when people are allowed to come over, but things are never what they seem. When I found out what was going on, all I could see was kill him! NOW! UPDATE: 11-3-16 $2.99 on kindle. Not sure for how long! My initial reaction during the beginning of this book was, \"What The Hell Is Going On.\" I knew it wasn't good and I had an idea but ideas are never totally what your thinking. Jack Angel is a lawyer and his wife Grace used to be a lot of things but she's not any more. Oh, she's the perfect hostess when people are allowed to come over, but things are never what they seem. When I found out what was going on, all I could see was kill him! NOW! How much I loathed Jack Angel is too much to describe! Grace has a sweet sister named Millie who has Down's Syndrome. She is in a special school where she lives but she's supposed to go and live with Jack and Grace after she turns eighteen. Grace does not want this to happen and will try to figure out how she can stop it. Grace doesn't want Millie brought into the sadistic world she lives in with Jack. At first I was upset with Grace for not getting out of there but things are not as easy as they seem. Grace is living a nightmare beyond comprehension. And let me just say that little Millie, she's brilliant, absolutely brilliant. Millie has it figured out and now all Grace has to do is find a way to execute the plan. But in Grace's world there is nothing easy to execute. Prisoners in a jail have it easier than Grace! But the end game. . . was magnificent! That's all I can say without giving any spoilers! And remember. . . you never know what's going on behind any closed door! *I would like to thank Netgalley and St. Martin's Press for a copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.* MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List \u2665 Thank you all for taking the time to read my reviews. \u2665 ...more I know a lot of you guys loved this book, but it turned out to be just meh for me. It had it's moments and kept me up late last night, but I had a hard time suspending disbelief with this one. I don't know why. I listened to the audio version. The audio is good. It's short and only about 8 hours. The narrator does a good job, but the book translated into a Lifetime Movie via audio for me. It might be better to read a hardcopy of it. Thank you to Lisa for recommending it to me. :). She loved the bo I know a lot of you guys loved this book, but it turned out to be just meh for me. It had it's moments and kept me up late last night, but I had a hard time suspending disbelief with this one. I don't know why. I listened to the audio version. The audio is good. It's short and only about 8 hours. The narrator does a good job, but the book translated into a Lifetime Movie via audio for me. It might be better to read a hardcopy of it. Thank you to Lisa for recommending it to me. :). She loved the book and so many other people on Goodreads did as well, so don't take my word for it. Check Lisa's revue out. Here it is: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more I received a copy of Behind Closed Doors by <---A>B.A. Paris</---A> from NetGalley for an honest review. My thanks to NetGalley, St. Martin's Press, and to B.A. Paris for the opportunity. \"Gaslighting\". Flip the switch. Move over Charles Boyer and Ingrid Bergman. This one is lit up and burning bright. Jack and Grace Angel appear to be in love and so taken with one another. A dinner party showcases Grace's extraordinary culinary fete and highlights Jack's lavish attention upon his wife and their guests. Their p I received a copy of Behind Closed Doors by B.A. Paris from NetGalley for an honest review. My thanks to NetGalley, St. Martin's Press, and to B.A. Paris for the opportunity. \"Gaslighting\". Flip the switch. Move over Charles Boyer and Ingrid Bergman. This one is lit up and burning bright. Jack and Grace Angel appear to be in love and so taken with one another. A dinner party showcases Grace's extraordinary culinary fete and highlights Jack's lavish attention upon his wife and their guests. Their posh home reflects the best in art and in decor. This lovely scene is swirling with the honeymoon affect. But if you and I lean in a bit closer.....yes, closer, we will be assaulted by a fetid waft of air that is indescribable. We step back to try and clear the air of the noxious fumes, but we and our senses are held hostage by the toxicity of what lies beneath this panoramic view. All is certainly not what it seems here. And what lies beneath the surface will have you gasping for, perhaps, a last breath. B.A. Paris invites you into this little abode. Her characters are well-defined and the storyline has a heartbeat of its own. Are there some loose threads along the seams of this story? Most certainly. I did question some of the scenarios that were presented. But what energizes this story is the uncanny desperation that you feel for not being able to look away. You are as driven as the main characters. You must know. You must know. This is a debut novel for B.A. Paris. There are all indications of a remarkable talent in the making. Paris knows how to draw the cincture tighter and tighter. And that makes all the difference in keeping the story afloat and awaiting the next wave of attention. Looking forward to B.A. Paris' next offering. a ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ My first warning should have been . . . \u201cThe 2016 debut bloggers can't stop raving about. Perfect for fans of The Girl on the Train.\u201d By the time I was finished, there was only one thing that was going to cure my misery . . . WARNING: SPOILERS BECAUSE I DON\u2019T GIVE ONE GOOD GODDANG \u2018BOUT THIS ONE. Grace was a big muckity muck \u2013 living a jet set lifestyle as a buyer for Harrod\u2019s. That all changed, however, when she met George Clooney J Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ My first warning should have been . . . \u201cThe 2016 debut bloggers can't stop raving about. Perfect for fans of The Girl on the Train.\u201d By the time I was finished, there was only one thing that was going to cure my misery . . . WARNING: SPOILERS BECAUSE I DON\u2019T GIVE ONE GOOD GODDANG \u2018BOUT THIS ONE. Grace was a big muckity muck \u2013 living a jet set lifestyle as a buyer for Harrod\u2019s. That all changed, however, when she met George Clooney Jack. Jack swept Grace into a whirlwind romance, promised her not only the home of her dreams but also the opportunity to quit her job and have her sister (who was born with Down\u2019s Syndrome) move in with them rather than live at her special school, and so the two were married in just six months. On the eve of her wedding everything changed for Grace. Because she was an effing IDIOT. Actually, let me back up a bit. *insert rewind noise* Despite Jack\u2019s concerns, Grace insisted that her sister Millie stand as maid of honor. But on the couple\u2019s wedding day Millie suffered from a terrible slip and fall down the stairs breaking her leg and removing her from the wedding festivities entirely (*dun dun dunnnnnnnnn*). That was page 64 and when I began screaming . . . Or Grace \u2013 you get the point. The remaining 300 pages consisted of more quality Lifetime Television for Women drama until finally Millie, despite having dialogue written as if she had the mentality of a toddler, came up with a fix for alllllllllll of Grace\u2019s problems . . . . Behind Closed Doors is easily the worst thing I\u2019ve read in 2016. I should thank Shelby for sending this to me, but I kind of feel like she April Fooled me a month late. Whatever the case, I\u2019m moving on to better things \u2013 namely porn . . . If anyone is interested in this being paid forward (backward????) to them, I\u2019ll happily send it on. Please note it has a little water damage at the top of about 15 pages because I read it at the pool and kids are splashy assholes. Also note I will include a barf bag in the package since you may now be picturing me in a swimsuit. Yes, it is EXACTLY how you are imaging it . . . ...more I have voted in 2 categories for this book in the 2016 Goodreads awards and with good reason! You know that couple that looks SO perfect for each other? The ones that click together in every way when you see them and you feel a jealous twang that you don't have the same thing? Sometimes what you see on the outside can be very deceptive, never ever judge a book by it's cover, always read the fine print in the middle. Behind Closed Doors is a chilling and atmospheric psychological thriller that I pr I have voted in 2 categories for this book in the 2016 Goodreads awards and with good reason! You know that couple that looks SO perfect for each other? The ones that click together in every way when you see them and you feel a jealous twang that you don't have the same thing? Sometimes what you see on the outside can be very deceptive, never ever judge a book by it's cover, always read the fine print in the middle. Behind Closed Doors is a chilling and atmospheric psychological thriller that I predict will be one of the BIG reads of 2016. I have read a few books recently about marriages that are not all they same and when this theme is done well (as this book does) it's absolutely breathtaking and scary. Disturbed is what you will feel with much of this book, don't be surprised if your mouth pops open (watch out for fruit flies at that point). The perfect marriage? Or the perfect lie? Everyone knows a couple like Jack and Grace. He has looks and wealth, she has charm and elegance. You might not want to like them, but you do. You\u2019d like to get to know Grace better. But it\u2019s difficult, because you realise Jack and Grace are never apart. I had mixed feelings about Grace as a character but was very clear on my feelings for Jack - I did not like him, I hated him. Full stop. As for Grace? Well I felt much for her ranging from pity and empathy to annoyance and rage. I wanted to yell at Grace many, many times and jump in the book and give her a good shaking. BUT I get it, I get the whole syndrome, the cycle that kicks in within a marriage of THIS kind, so I could not feel those feelings for long for her. Grace... The plot interested me from the start, I read the book in one glued-eye sitting until the early hours and was glad that I did, this my reader friends is one of those real escapism books. Love them. Taut, terrific and terrifyingly real at times. I have no doubt these marriages do exist. Think on that. Loved, loved and loved Behind Closed Doors and am intrigued to read more from B.A. Paris. This book gains a 5 star rating for me and as I have already said 2016 is going to be a GREAT year for books! Go on, give it a whirl, peek behind the door and see what REALLY goes on. I double dare you. Many thanks to Harlequin UK for my copy of this book in exchange for a professional book review. All opinions are my own. For more of my book reviews, plenty of awesome books to win, and author Q&A events come to: https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat... To follow me on Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/promotethatbook ...more 5 oh oh oh stars! Holy moly what a ride!! I HAD to find out what happened, so seriously, I stayed in bed until NOON, with no thoughts of family, friends, or world chaos. Dry eye made the words blurry, but who cares? And food? Is that really necessary? My only necessity was finding out how this story turned out, to get me out of the claustrophobic terror created by a holy-shit psychopath. It was some tense! This guy Jack is one sick psycho. Just when I think he can\u2019t get any worse, he outdoes hims 5 oh oh oh stars! Holy moly what a ride!! I HAD to find out what happened, so seriously, I stayed in bed until NOON, with no thoughts of family, friends, or world chaos. Dry eye made the words blurry, but who cares? And food? Is that really necessary? My only necessity was finding out how this story turned out, to get me out of the claustrophobic terror created by a holy-shit psychopath. It was some tense! This guy Jack is one sick psycho. Just when I think he can\u2019t get any worse, he outdoes himself and terrifies me all over again, and with each new act, the terror grows huger. Will he win in the end? I went back and forth many times, believe me. I'm super impressed that this new writer could come up with such far-out displays of evil and ingenious push-backs. I will be on the lookout for her next book, that\u2019s for sure. The writing is excellent\u2014it flows seamlessly and there are no fillers. And the story is told by the woman, Grace. I always love first-person narration\u2014it makes the story so believable (unless it\u2019s an unreliable narrator, of course, which she is not). I won\u2019t say anything about the plot because for me it\u2019s more fun to go into a thriller blind. The pace never lets up. Okay, actually it did get a tiny bit slow in the middle, but it could have just been my discomfort (super nail-biting unchiness) that made me want it to go faster so I could see what happened. I\u2019ve never been so impatient. The beginning and ending were just scrumptious. I was so caught up in the story, I didn\u2019t really stop and think about whether it was all believable. Looking back, I\u2019d say there are maybe two times I had to suspend disbelief, but I didn\u2019t care\u2014the story had me by the throat and I was fighting for breath. And I really loved the ending, but I wished for one thing that didn\u2019t happen. (view spoiler) [I didn\u2019t buy that Grace didn\u2019t shout for help when she was at Millie\u2019s school, where the teacher knew and trusted her. But had Grace been able to expose Jack then, what a boring fizzle-out it would have been! Also, Millie seemed a little too clever for someone with a low IQ\u2014could she have successfully hidden pills, and would she have been able to cook up such a scheme? And in the end, I really wanted to actually see Grace get her revenge: I wanted to see Jack suffer, to watch her make him suffer, to see his reaction. But then again, it was so clever and effective the way the author had Grace happily heading off to the airport by herself, and it kept me incredibly tense and curious about what had happened and whether she truly would be free. (hide spoiler) ] There\u2019s definitely a Hitchcock feel to this book; I\u2019d love to see it made into a movie. I\u2019m not a big thriller fan, but this one really got me going. A good psychopath can take your mind off of anything. This was just what the doctor ordered. Thanks to NetGalley for the advance copy. ...more 2.5 Stars An page turning debut novel but a ridiculously flawed conclusion. There seems to be a great deal of new releases on the best sellers lists for psychological-thriller style novels about relationships between married couples and they all seem to be readable but quite mediocre and this was among one of three that I downloaded that has fantastic reviews but failed to deliver a satisfying and credible ending. Everyone knows a couple like Jack and Grace, successful, newly married, devoted t 2.5 Stars An page turning debut novel but a ridiculously flawed conclusion. There seems to be a great deal of new releases on the best sellers lists for psychological-thriller style novels about relationships between married couples and they all seem to be readable but quite mediocre and this was among one of three that I downloaded that has fantastic reviews but failed to deliver a satisfying and credible ending. Everyone knows a couple like Jack and Grace, successful, newly married, devoted to each other but is their relationship and life as rosy as it appears on the outside? I fell for the premise of the story as the characters are well drawn and the plot well executed to begin with but about half ways through the story I was finding myself having to suspend belief at some of the actions of the characters and plot line weakened and became repetitive. I read this on Kindle and thought I was missing pages as the book seemed to end so abruptly. An entertaining beginning but a disappointing conclusion and a novel that lacked any real depth. ...more 5 star psychological thriller that's hard to put down! Kudos to B.A. Paris on an excellent d\u00e9but novel! This story had my heart pounding as it unfolded -- and it was terrifying at points! I read this in one day (would say one sitting, but I came up for air a couple of times). The story is told from the point of view of Grace - who has been married to Jack for almost 18 months. The timeline flips from past to present throughout the story -- which was easy to follow and helped keep good momentum ( 5 star psychological thriller that's hard to put down! Kudos to B.A. Paris on an excellent d\u00e9but novel! This story had my heart pounding as it unfolded -- and it was terrifying at points! I read this in one day (would say one sitting, but I came up for air a couple of times). The story is told from the point of view of Grace - who has been married to Jack for almost 18 months. The timeline flips from past to present throughout the story -- which was easy to follow and helped keep good momentum (and tension). The reader recognizes early on that something is not right in Grace and Jack's outwardly \"perfect\" marriage. In Chapter 1, numerous red flags are apparent as Grace is nervous as to: 1) how Jack will react to her interactions with their dinner party guests and 2) whether her elaborate meal will be perfect (taste, presentation, timing). Her panic is quite easy to pick up on. The reason behind it unfolds slowly throughout the story. Grace had been a successful business professional who was the primary caregiver of her (much younger) sister, Millie who has Down's Syndrome and is being cared for in a school environment. Jack is a gorgeous, successful attorney (defender of battered women) who seems to have it all. On the surface, they seem to be the perfect couple. I won't reveal more about the plot or specifically why I liked it because I don't want to spoil for anyone. DON'T READ FURTHER IF you are on an IPhone as there are spoilers below. They are tagged and don't show on the website, but are visible on my IPhone!!! Specifics that I liked: (view spoiler) [ * Grace's relationship with Millie! * How the tension built throughout the story. * The color around the diabolical character of Jack. * How Esther helped to develop an alibi at the end and the significance of that red (vs. yellow) room was pivotal in her decision to do so. She recognized Jack as the monster that he was. (hide spoiler) ] Other (view spoiler) [* I wanted to slap Grace a few times to try harder earlier on to get away. Also, the day after the wedding. Pick Millie! Leave the jerk! * Jack was such a classic psychopath - target victim that didn't have sufficient support system, terrible childhood, torture animal... Thoroughly detested him and was glad that he got his comeuppance! * How could nobody that Jack and Grace socialized with suspect anything? I'm going with that Jack was such a sociopath and Grace such an actress that they played parts well and didn't get close enough with these people for anyone to really know. * Millie being pushed by Jack - saw it coming because he had been so \"against\" her being a bridesmaid. (hide spoiler) ] I highly recommend Behind Closed Doors to all fans of psychological thrillers!! This was an emotionally-charged read that I couldn't put down once I started. I am so glad that I read on my day off so that I could keep going! A big thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for ARC in exchange for honest review. ...more 3.5 stars I\u2019m not sure if my expectations were hijacked by the hype or if some of the other thrillers/suspense novels I\u2019ve read this year have set the bar really high, but either way, this didn\u2019t exactly work for me. I\u2019m not saying it was awful or poorly written, it just wasn\u2019t anything I would consider special. It didn\u2019t wow me. For about the first 100 pages, I was all in. Sitting on the edge of my seat, excited to see how things were going to unfold with Grace and Jack. By all appearances they h 3.5 stars I\u2019m not sure if my expectations were hijacked by the hype or if some of the other thrillers/suspense novels I\u2019ve read this year have set the bar really high, but either way, this didn\u2019t exactly work for me. I\u2019m not saying it was awful or poorly written, it just wasn\u2019t anything I would consider special. It didn\u2019t wow me. For about the first 100 pages, I was all in. Sitting on the edge of my seat, excited to see how things were going to unfold with Grace and Jack. By all appearances they had the perfect marriage, but we all know looks can be deceiving. It was definitely an interesting, but eerie scenario. I couldn\u2019t wrap my mind around how Grace was going to get herself out of the situation she was trapped in. While I thought there were a few opportunities that presented themselves, I could understand her trepidation and the need to protect her younger sister. Millie turned out to be one of my favorite things about the story. Was it just me or did she have way more guts than Grace? It was somewhere around the halfway mark that my feelings started to change. The story became stagnant and took on a bit of a repetitive feel. I kept waiting for something big to happen. Something to breathe some life back into this story. It was a lot of talk, but not much action. I don\u2019t know what this says about me, but I was kind of disappointed that we never truly got to see what Jack was capable of. I felt like we were only given a small glimpse of his dark side. I will say, the author delivered with the ending. While slightly unbelievable, I would expect more of an investigation obviously, it made me like the story that much more. It was kind of clever the way Grace pulled it off. The fact that someone else knew what really happened, and how she figured it out, was an added bonus. While I can\u2019t say I loved this one, I liked it enough to consider reading another book from this author. *ARC provided by St. Martin's Press and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.* ...more 3.5 Stars. This guy is SICK! The perfectly plotted lie from movie-star handsome and brilliant lawyer Jack Angel turns Grace's day-to-day life upside down. Disbelief, shock and panic turn her honeymoon to Thailand into a living hell, but its what happens upon their return home that awakened my hatred for this sicko wishing him a long and painful death. \"It was then that I didn't only vow to kill Jack, but to make him suffer as he had made Molly suffer.\" After the initial introduction and hasty mar 3.5 Stars. This guy is SICK! The perfectly plotted lie from movie-star handsome and brilliant lawyer Jack Angel turns Grace's day-to-day life upside down. Disbelief, shock and panic turn her honeymoon to Thailand into a living hell, but its what happens upon their return home that awakened my hatred for this sicko wishing him a long and painful death. \"It was then that I didn't only vow to kill Jack, but to make him suffer as he had made Molly suffer.\" After the initial introduction and hasty marriage, Jack is depicted as a psychopathic monster and murderer who lives to instill fear for his personal pleasure, and yet BEHIND CLOSED DOORS did not fill me with horrific terror. It did, however, keep me entertained and quickly turning the pages to its conclusion that I thought ended, for Jack, just as it should and to my satisfaction. Makes me wonder what B. A. Paris will dream up next. Very decent debut! ...more Enjoyable, even though the psychological pathology and methodology really don't make any sense. But it's written in a way that keeps the pages turning, even if the plotting and details are a bit loose and the characterization not hugely complex. I'm a little surprised to see this described as \"terrifying\" and other such adjectives, though. Maybe I've been too hardened by other thrillers and life to find it that exciting. But I liked the book overall, especially the note on which it ended. HOLY MACARONI! 4.5 stars! This book, seriously... I was emotionally gripped from page one. I think I could have read it in one sitting but unfortunately, life got in the way of that. It was quite hard to put this book down. I thoroughly enjoyed the back and forth of the way the story went. The author set this story up perfectly and I felt as if I could see it playing out in my mind. THIS SO NEEDS TO BE A MOVIE! It was emotionally gripping and I felt like I could have been psychologically examine HOLY MACARONI! 4.5 stars! This book, seriously... I was emotionally gripped from page one. I think I could have read it in one sitting but unfortunately, life got in the way of that. It was quite hard to put this book down. I thoroughly enjoyed the back and forth of the way the story went. The author set this story up perfectly and I felt as if I could see it playing out in my mind. THIS SO NEEDS TO BE A MOVIE! It was emotionally gripping and I felt like I could have been psychologically examined after I read it I was so messed up from it. Millie was my FAVORITE character and I love how she wanted to get rid of Jorg Koony the entire time. She was a hoot and added so much color into the novel that could have otherwise been dull. There were some parts of the story that were beige and I felt as if I had read it before and wanted to push fast forward through it but other than that I enjoyed the book immensely. This author did a fantastic job writing this novel, I was gripped from beginning to the end and had to know what happened. Wonderfully thrilling and emotionally gripping from page one. Kudos to this author and I am quite excited to see what else she has in store for readers. I will be getting her next novel :) ...more Jack and Grace Angel seem like the perfect couple. They give the best receptions, but this marital bliss is only skin deep. They are less beauty and the beast and more like Daffy Duck and Elmer Fudd. I'm merely kidding...I think so, at least. Grace is unhappy in her life, which is hell. Her sister has Down's Syndrome, and comes to live with the couple. Things start to happen. I thought the writing was slick and I wanted to read - and did read - it as fast as I could. Jack was a character executed Jack and Grace Angel seem like the perfect couple. They give the best receptions, but this marital bliss is only skin deep. They are less beauty and the beast and more like Daffy Duck and Elmer Fudd. I'm merely kidding...I think so, at least. Grace is unhappy in her life, which is hell. Her sister has Down's Syndrome, and comes to live with the couple. Things start to happen. I thought the writing was slick and I wanted to read - and did read - it as fast as I could. Jack was a character executed (I wish it were literally so) in fine detail. But we see more of Grace than of Jack. Grace is a sophisticated and well bred woman, with plenty to look forward to. Yet she reacts like many abused women. I found this frustrating but also quite realistic. When the denouement came, I loved the ending and also loved the little transition that the author brought to Grace's character. Altogether, a very satisfying book. ...more \"The key turns in the lock. The door opens and he stands in the doorway, my handsome, psychopathic husband.\" We've all heard a statement similar to 'you never know what happens behind closed doors' and unfortunately we've also all encountered an individual or two that we've thought it about. Author B.A. Paris used this as inspiration in her first attempt at writing and Behind Closed Doors was born. This dark psychological drama is pretty intense and touches on many of the very nonfiction powe \"The key turns in the lock. The door opens and he stands in the doorway, my handsome, psychopathic husband.\" We've all heard a statement similar to 'you never know what happens behind closed doors' and unfortunately we've also all encountered an individual or two that we've thought it about. Author B.A. Paris used this as inspiration in her first attempt at writing and Behind Closed Doors was born. This dark psychological drama is pretty intense and touches on many of the very nonfiction power and control dynamics of domestic abuse: mind games, demeaning comments, threats, controlling access to money, manipulating social relationships, humiliation, isolation, and the list goes on...and gets a whole lot darker. In Behind Closed Doors , the redundant episodes got so darkly creative that it crossed the line into the unbelievable. Don't misunderstand me, I know that very dark abuse occurs in the real world. My work in social services has me working with victims and offenders of all types of crimes - sadly nothing surprises me anymore - but the villain in this storyline was a bit over the top for my personal taste and I started to feel my investment in the reading experience decline. I should note that I listened via audiobook and the narration may have added a 'B-movie' quality to this story causing it to border on ridiculous, I'm not sure. I thought about DNF'ing (because reading should be fun!) but I'm glad I didn't because the ending was worth it all. Seriously, I wanted to pump my fist in the air. If you enjoy psychological suspense, then Behind Closed Doors is worth the time in my opinion. I just personally couldn't give it more than 3 psychotic stars. ATTENTION: Any attempt to control the behavior and/or emotions of an intimate partner and diminish or prevent their free choice can constitute domestic abuse. Victims do not cause the abuse, and nothing a victim says or does can excuse the abuse. Abusers bear sole responsibility for their actions. Abusers are not always men, victims are not always female, and the relationships are not always heterosexual. Check out THIS WEBSITE for more info. My favorite quote: \"...she recently married a wealthy philanthropist, well respected for his work with various charities and\u00a0therefore an unlikely candidate in the wife-battering\u00a0stakes. Still, I know only too well how appearances can be deceiving....\" ...more The book opens at a dinner party, held at Jack and Grace\u2019s \u2018perfect\u2019 house. Jack is a successful lawyer, Grace an ex-buyer for the upmarket Harrods store, in London. The meal has been brilliantly prepared by Grace, though it\u2019s clear she had to expend much more energy than she\u2019d wanted to deliver to Jack\u2019s expected standard. One of the guests is a new acquaintance of Jack\u2019s and his wife is making slightly bitchy comments to Grace and asking her a series of questions about her life and her relatio The book opens at a dinner party, held at Jack and Grace\u2019s \u2018perfect\u2019 house. Jack is a successful lawyer, Grace an ex-buyer for the upmarket Harrods store, in London. The meal has been brilliantly prepared by Grace, though it\u2019s clear she had to expend much more energy than she\u2019d wanted to deliver to Jack\u2019s expected standard. One of the guests is a new acquaintance of Jack\u2019s and his wife is making slightly bitchy comments to Grace and asking her a series of questions about her life and her relationship with her partner. It transpires that Jack and Grace have been married just one year and that Grace gave up her job (a job she admits she loved) so that she could be home more often to support her husband. Then we learn that Grace has a sister, Millie, who suffers from Downs syndrome. Millie will soon come to live with her sister and her husband. These revelations hit slightly off-key notes in what otherwise appears to be a perfect set-up. Ok, so what\u2019s the real story of this relationship and why is Grace\u2019s sister coming to live with them? So far so good, but for me it didn\u2019t go much further. It wasn\u2019t long before light was thrown on the real goings on behind closed doors. It didn't feel as though any real surprises were uncovered; it was pretty much what anyone would have expected from the introduction provided. And now maybe all that was left was to see how it was all to be resolved \u2013 except I\u2019m less than half way through! In addition, I think Grace is a wimp and I\u2019m struggling to find much sympathy for her. I got this book on a daily deal from Audible. It\u2019d had good reviews and, to be fair, it might be that there were some surprises I didn\u2019t get to (I\u2019d given up at the point I mention above). But frankly I don\u2019t care. I\u2019d stopped enjoying the book soon after I started and only hung in there to see if it would improve. When I saw it was going further in the wrong direction I pulled the plug. Only one star from me \u2013 my standard offering for any book I fail to finish. ...more OMG I have read some fantastic books so far this year. This year I have a feeling is going to be awesome. I finished last year on a high and this year has started on a high for just awesomeness in book material. Jack & Grace They seem the most perfect of couples. Surely you have experienced it. The typically \"forever happy, never row, never have a cross word, smiley at each other, gooey eyed seemingly perfect couple\". Do you get envious? Or do you think \"hmm yeah yeah\" I am sure there are OMG I have read some fantastic books so far this year. This year I have a feeling is going to be awesome. I finished last year on a high and this year has started on a high for just awesomeness in book material. Jack & Grace They seem the most perfect of couples. Surely you have experienced it. The typically \"forever happy, never row, never have a cross word, smiley at each other, gooey eyed seemingly perfect couple\". Do you get envious? Or do you think \"hmm yeah yeah\" I am sure there are couples out there that get on very well, but the appearance of Jack and Grace and how they both conduct themselves in the public eye is nothing far from awesomeness. But behind closed doors........... Yep, that is when you see Jack for what he is. This is not an upsetting brutal man in the full sense of the word as in beatings, so don't be mislead that this may turn your stomach, because it won't. I knew right from the start that I didn't like Jack. I felt very strongly where I wanted to kick him to make it hurt and worse. Grace I thought at times was shallow, but the more I read the more I could understand her situation. Who is going to believe her? And when will she get any time to herself and an opportunity to even do anything remotely like changing her life situation. The author has written a strong plot, a plot that will keep you engrossed so well you definitely won't be able to stop reading, if you need to sleep, be aware that you may not be able to, or at the least, wake to find yourself reaching for your book/kindle before even breakfast! I kid you not, this is one awesome read. Its strong, its solid, no flaws, the pitch the power and pace is just right for any reading to be pulled along its path. The conclusion was SUPER. Would I recommend this book to you? Would I hell......YES, go get it NOW. You won't be sorry you read this one. Seriously. * I need to say Harlequin (UK) Limited via Net Galley and of course the author B. A. Paris for my copy* ...more * 4.5 Stars* Jack and Grace have the perfect marriage, right? Well, scratch the veneer a little, and there's something really evil lurking beneath. Grace is something of a trophy wife for Jack. And as for Jack, I can't really say HOW I feel about him. No, I really CAN'T say how I feel about him, because it would set me off on a rant, and I'd probably give the whole darn plot away! Let's just say that you wouldn't want to be married to him - no way. This is a chilling, claustrophobic, psychological * 4.5 Stars* Jack and Grace have the perfect marriage, right? Well, scratch the veneer a little, and there's something really evil lurking beneath. Grace is something of a trophy wife for Jack. And as for Jack, I can't really say HOW I feel about him. No, I really CAN'T say how I feel about him, because it would set me off on a rant, and I'd probably give the whole darn plot away! Let's just say that you wouldn't want to be married to him - no way. This is a chilling, claustrophobic, psychological thriller, that has had a huge emotional impact on me - and credit to B. A. Paris for managing to achieve that. If you get the chance to read this book, then do so, but just be thankful, that when you've finished, and you put it down, you can put Jack to one side forever. Deep breaths now Maureen. Normal service will be resumed ASAP! * Thank you Netgalley and Harlequin UK for my 'Wish For It' copy* ...more There is so much hype surrounding this novel that it became a foregone conclusion that I would have to read it as well. \u00a0Perhaps what sets this one apart from many other psychological thrillers is that the author does not rely on gratuitous violence to either advance the plot or put the reader on edge. \u00a0That is not to say that the fear is not real, because it is, very much so. \u00a0Here though the source of this fear lay more in psychological manipulation and physiological deprivation. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0And it wor There is so much hype surrounding this novel that it became a foregone conclusion that I would have to read it as well. \u00a0Perhaps what sets this one apart from many other psychological thrillers is that the author does not rely on gratuitous violence to either advance the plot or put the reader on edge. \u00a0That is not to say that the fear is not real, because it is, very much so. \u00a0Here though the source of this fear lay more in psychological manipulation and physiological deprivation. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0And it works. I don\u2019t believe I could do this book nearly a much justice as this review of Deanna\u2019s: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... Now if that doesn\u2019t convince you to read this nothing will. 3.5 stars rounded up because a) Millie and b) the red room. ...more I thoroughly enjoyed this debut novel by B.A.Paris and would recommend it to fans of psychological thrillers. The novel is told alternating from past to present and builds up the tension page by page. Jack and Grace have the perfect life and the perfect marriage. Jack is a successful attorney who specialises in cases that involve physically abused women and Grace a professional who gave up her excellent job when she married Jack. Jack who at first is a true gentleman turns into a controlling and I thoroughly enjoyed this debut novel by B.A.Paris and would recommend it to fans of psychological thrillers. The novel is told alternating from past to present and builds up the tension page by page. Jack and Grace have the perfect life and the perfect marriage. Jack is a successful attorney who specialises in cases that involve physically abused women and Grace a professional who gave up her excellent job when she married Jack. Jack who at first is a true gentleman turns into a controlling and manipulative husband on their wedding night. The perfect relationship and a true love story turns into a nightmare for Grace. The pace of the story is expertly set and shows great promise for a debut author. There are lots twists and turns that keep you guessing throughout. This book is nigh on impossible to put down once you start so be warned. I would like to thank Net Galley and Harlequin for supplying a copy of 'Behind Closed Doors' in exchange for a honest review. ...more OMG OMG OMG i just loved Behind Closed Doors by B.A. Paris the moment i started reading this i knew it was to good to be true i immediately felt the fear in Graces eyes when Jack was around but i read on & Kapow here it comes. Jack & Grace had it all a perfect marriage Grace was the perfect wife a great cook & Millie Graces sister who has Downs Syndrome everything was perfect on the outside but when Jack finally showed his true colours on their honeymoon Jack gets into Graces head her OMG OMG OMG i just loved Behind Closed Doors by B.A. Paris the moment i started reading this i knew it was to good to be true i immediately felt the fear in Graces eyes when Jack was around but i read on & Kapow here it comes. Jack & Grace had it all a perfect marriage Grace was the perfect wife a great cook & Millie Graces sister who has Downs Syndrome everything was perfect on the outside but when Jack finally showed his true colours on their honeymoon Jack gets into Graces head her phone, wallet etc goes missing she goes to the hotel & asks the staff have the seen them around but unbeknownst to Grace her things turn up miraculously. I felt dread in the eyes of Grace she wanted to believe that jack was not this monster but he kept getting into her brain using Millie as his pawn to get Grace to do what he wanted. Jack tells Grace about his childhood & upbringing Grace suddenly feels panic she is terrified of him then the unthinkable happens to Grace i wont spoil the ending but young love is NEVER WHAT IT SEEMS!!!!! ...more DNF - somewhere around 60% Stars! I dislike Behind Closed Doors so much that it actually hurts to read. I keep pushing myself, but I feel like suffocating, like I want to throw it away. The book itself feels like one of those real-story-cheap-movies. Just that it doesn't end as quickly. The story is pretty straightforward. A psychopath tricked a woman into marrying him, only to show his true colors as soon as his wedding night. How the f*ck do you get on a plane to an exotic destination with that k DNF - somewhere around 60% Stars! I dislike Behind Closed Doors so much that it actually hurts to read. I keep pushing myself, but I feel like suffocating, like I want to throw it away. The book itself feels like one of those real-story-cheap-movies. Just that it doesn't end as quickly. The story is pretty straightforward. A psychopath tricked a woman into marrying him, only to show his true colors as soon as his wedding night. How the f*ck do you get on a plane to an exotic destination with that kind of a man? Someone who makes you choose between (view spoiler) [himself (whom you known for 6-7 months) and your sister (whom you known for a lifetime) the next day after your wedding. (hide spoiler) ] How can you have such little respect for yourself? As you have figured it out already, I deeply dislike Grace. Jack? Just as much. There isn't a character I feel for, and find no reason to keep reading the book. Not even wanting to know the ending will make me finish it (tho I hope one of my GR buddies could tell me how it ends :D ). There are too many good books out there waiting for me. I refuse to make myself read something I don't like.[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more The perfect marriage? Or the perfect lie? Everyone knows a couple like Jack and Grace. He has looks and wealth, she has charm and elegance. You might not want to like them, but you do. You\u2019d like to get to know Grace better. But it\u2019s difficult, because you realise Jack and Grace are never apart. As I go through the hall, I see the flowering lily Diane and Adam brought us for our garden. It's such a beautiful pink that I hope Jack will plant it where I'll be able to see it from the bedroom windo The perfect marriage? Or the perfect lie? Everyone knows a couple like Jack and Grace. He has looks and wealth, she has charm and elegance. You might not want to like them, but you do. You\u2019d like to get to know Grace better. But it\u2019s difficult, because you realise Jack and Grace are never apart. As I go through the hall, I see the flowering lily Diane and Adam brought us for our garden. It's such a beautiful pink that I hope Jack will plant it where I'll be able to see it from the bedroom window ... This one was quite disturbing. Didn't really read many reviews prior to starting it but I saw some friends had rated it highly. \"Who are you, Jack?\" I asked quietly. \"Your husband,\" he said. \"I am your husband.\" Taking my hand in his, he raised it to his lips and kissed it. \"For better or for worse. In sickness and in health. Till death do us part.\" I wept at my stupidity. \"Jorj Koony do bad thing ... Jorj Koony bad man, very bad man.\" There were no flies on Millie. The ending felt a little bit rushed but a good read, overall. And for a debut novel, it deserves attention. ...more<---C>B.A. Paris</---C>", "Title": "Behind Closed Doors"},
