{"Comments": "What a year I've had! Perhaps 20 books of the 80 or so have been Phenomenal (<---B>thanks, 1001 Books to Read Before You Die List</---B>). Seriously, the majority of these are at least above average, some of them are true essentials that you mustmust MUST absolutely experience). In that vein, \"<+++>The Master</+++>\" reigns supreme. Novels about novel-writing are a hit because they embody the \"perfect package\": it's drama about drama,<---M> prose about prose</---M>, what the un-fictitious writer had to do to ultimately get his ficti What a year I've had! Perhaps 20 books of the 80 or so have been Phenomenal (thanks, 1001 Books to Read Before You Die List). Seriously, the majority of these are at least above average, some of them are true essentials that you mustmust MUST absolutely experience). In that vein, \"<+++>The Master</+++>\" reigns supreme. Novels about novel-writing are a hit because they embody the \"perfect package\": it's drama about drama, prose about prose, what the un-fictitious writer had to do to ultimately get his fiction out there... even whole sets of poetics and stylistic inclinations have a TRUE (dare I add, educational) purpose in these exciting, intrepid endeavors. Yeah, Cunningham hit a home run with \"The Hours\"--his trying to explain a writer's madness somehow allowed it transcendence of the boundaries of time and space. And in Joyce Carol Oates \"Blonde\" (my favorite novel all year), there is a sincere and Godly effort to portray the ARTIST in all her bright and dark dimensions. THE MASTER is a work about the restraint felt by the artist, in this case, the incomparable <---C>Henry James</---C>, and how every small moment is erected in his mind with hints of feeling and memory. He feels sadness for children--for their future lives that seem so distant and so full of possibility, including, of course, the possibility of demise. For his sister, for mortality; for the new form of novel which could (and in my very humble opinion DID) surpass his own brand of the same. Like Woolf, James is a victim of his age, his society--we all are. But Woolf was intrepid; James was insistent on the PROPER way to write a novel (see also, The Art of Fiction). His ideas went into his refined and sophisticated art; indeed with so many tuggings and distractions, & clashes with historical events, acquaintances, social gatherings, etc., James became diverted from his clear literary tasks. He is a master of his element, in his element; a brilliant man of unexpected colors.<---F> This one, to me, is PERFECT</---F>. Yes, a book about the contemplative nature of one of the greatest writers in the English language is, not boring or dull, but magnificent in its courage to properly give the Master back his due. This is one of the greatest of tributes imaginable. It must be said that this stands as a clear example of apprentice beating master. I will read Colm Toibin in the future with enormous expectation. ...more I loved this book. I thought T\u00f3ib\u00edn did a beautiful job adapting his style to one that was evocative of Henry James, although more easily readable. The novel moves with James to London, Ireland, Italy, and Rye, and effectively integrates James' memories of the past in flashbacks that come as responses to his relationships, tensions, and interactions with others. T\u00f3ib\u00edn has been described as a writer who is keenly interested in his characters' psychology and relationships, and this interest comes I loved this book. I thought T\u00f3ib\u00edn did a beautiful job adapting his style to one that was evocative of Henry James, although more easily readable. The novel moves with James to London, Ireland, Italy, and Rye, and effectively integrates James' memories of the past in flashbacks that come as responses to his relationships, tensions, and interactions with others. T\u00f3ib\u00edn has been described as a writer who is keenly interested in his characters' psychology and relationships, and this interest comes to the fore in The Master. James emerges very much as an isolated figure. He worries about how he appears to others, he struggles to maintain his composure, and in his zeal to maintain his privacy, he shies away from intimate relationships with others inside and outside of his family. He even (or especially) shields himself from knowledge of his true identity, particularly with regards to his sexuality. T\u00f3ib\u00edn's style, restrained and formal, beautifully (and sadly) conveys James' isolation and separation. Finally, I also found T\u00f3ib\u00edn's depiction of James's writing process to be revealing. Through chapters that focus on James's relationships with important figures in his life, including his sister Alice, T\u00f3ib\u00edn explores ways in which James used his writing to communicate with, remember, and in some cases make amends to ghosts in his life. I was left thinking about the limitations on intimacy that this approach can lead to - the barriers a writer can erect by being an observer rather than an active participant, the instrumentality of relationships formed and experiences sought primarily to provide material for a novel or play, and the betrayal felt by friends and family when they read James's work only to see themselves appearing as characters. ...more Life is a mystery and (that) only sentences are beautiful (\u2026) The disadvantage of listening to an audiobook, however mellow and fittingly transatlantic the accent of the narrator, is that one cannot hold on to the sentences. They seem more fleeting when listened to, even when, as in this case, I went back many times to pay more attention to the beauty of a sentence, the significance of a word. And there was much I wanted to hold on to and savour in this gorgeous novel. It is the story of Henry Ja Life is a mystery and (that) only sentences are beautiful (\u2026) The disadvantage of listening to an audiobook, however mellow and fittingly transatlantic the accent of the narrator, is that one cannot hold on to the sentences. They seem more fleeting when listened to, even when, as in this case, I went back many times to pay more attention to the beauty of a sentence, the significance of a word. And there was much I wanted to hold on to and savour in this gorgeous novel. It is the story of Henry James, of his writing, his family, his friendships, his worries and regrets; his life in solitary, sedentary exile , in self-repression, sexual and otherwise. We meet Henry, as he is called throughout the novel, when his play Guy Domville fails miserably in London. After this disaster, he slowly, finally, turns toward fiction. (On the opening night of his own play, afraid to witness the audience\u2019s response, he attends an Oscar Wilde play, Lady Windemere\u2019s Fan , and utterly dislikes it. Already here we get a glimpse of the sombre figure T\u00f3ib\u00edn paints: Henry James, although an aesthete like Wilde, seemed to embody the very opposite position of the dandified, larger-than-life Oscar Wilde). It is a novel of \u2018startling excellence\u2019, as the reviewer in The Observer stated. As far as I can tell from having so far only read four of James\u2019s novels, T\u00f3ib\u00edn borrows aspects of James\u2019s style such as tone, vocabulary and register, but he is more modern, and he has to a large extent abandoned the overly long sentences that were one of James\u2019s trademarks (and which have made me, I blush to admit, abandon The Ambassadors more than once). The result is one of ponderous beauty as well as a fascinating literary excavation into the emergence of many of James\u2019s stories and characters \u2013 as imagined and interpreted by T\u00f3ib\u00edn. I especially appreciated the direct line he portrays from Georg Eliot\u2019s Gwendolen Harleth in Daniel Deronda + Anthony Trollope\u2019s Lady Laura Kennedy in Phineas Finn + James\u2019s own cousin Minnie to Isabel Archer in The Portrait of a Lady . (Apropos Georg Eliot, I had to smile when Minnie claimed that you know much more how strange and beautiful it is to be alive after having read The Mill on the Floss than after a thousand sermons. Ah, indeed. I only just read that novel myself a few weeks ago). A few sad truths are indicative of the Henry James we meet in T\u00f3ib\u00edn\u2019s rendition of the Master in this novel: (About how he managed to avoid the American Civil War:) His war was private and further He lived as if his life belonged to someone else; like a character not fully imagined . It is an old-fashioned kind of story, in the very best sense; quietly paced, itself almost sedentary; a novel version of a biography about a refined hermit who devoted his life to his art (even if, at one point, T\u00f3ib\u00edn lets Henry\u2019s brother point out to him that his sentences have become too long!) By employing the Master\u2019s Christian name throughout, T\u00f3ib\u00edn cunningly makes the reader feel that much closer to the writer, as if we are truly offered an intimate insight into his life and his thoughts. I immediately want to read more by Henry James, which was no surprise, and three of his books (two of which I\u2019ve seen film versions of) are already on my to-read list. More unexpectedly, but most emphatically, I want to read more by <---A>Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn</---A>. What an imaginative, beautiful feat this novel was! ...more Thoughtful and well considered novel about a short period in the life of Henry James the novelist. It is set in the late 1890s when James lived in Rye and is entirely told from the point of view of James and is placed in his interior life. James is not an author I have read; apart from some of his shorter stuff, but that didn't present any problems in reading and appreciating the book. The basic knowledge I had about his life and family was enough. This novel moves slowly and is very descriptive, Thoughtful and well considered novel about a short period in the life of Henry James the novelist. It is set in the late 1890s when James lived in Rye and is entirely told from the point of view of James and is placed in his interior life. James is not an author I have read; apart from some of his shorter stuff, but that didn't present any problems in reading and appreciating the book. The basic knowledge I had about his life and family was enough. This novel moves slowly and is very descriptive,but is none the worse for that. James's reluctance to become too close to anyone is delicately observed and the oft debated question of his sexuality is explored in an oblique way through well described flashbacks and current encounters. The relationships with the novelist Constance Woolson and the sculptor Henrik Anderson and James's reticence: his wish to be private and alone conflicting with his wish to be close to someone. Aloneness won. There are interesting accounts of his relationships with his formidable family. Beautifully written, rather slow, James was somewhat infuriating in his reticence. I wanted to shake him and make him express some passion, grab one of his adored but distant objects and feel some human warmth (the bloke, the girl; I didn't care which; as they weren't around at the same time, preferably both). It may be that it was that very reticence, being an observer rather than a participator that made him the novelist he was. I ended up feeling rather sorry for him. ...more The subtle third-person narrative of Tolm Coibin (born 1955) masterfully portrays Henry James (1843-1916) as person in this 2004 Booker-shortlisted novel, The Master . Covering a period of 5 years, 1895 to 1899, this includes his defeat at London Theatre when Guy Domville (1895) flopped, his self-seclusion in Rye East Sussex, flashback to his former life in America, before going back and ending the story in Rye. I picked up this book because this is both a 501 and a 1001 and I have been postponin The subtle third-person narrative of Tolm Coibin (born 1955) masterfully portrays Henry James (1843-1916) as person in this 2004 Booker-shortlisted novel, The Master . Covering a period of 5 years, 1895 to 1899, this includes his defeat at London Theatre when Guy Domville (1895) flopped, his self-seclusion in Rye East Sussex, flashback to his former life in America, before going back and ending the story in Rye. I picked up this book because this is both a 501 and a 1001 and I have been postponing this book for almost two years now. My brand-new copy then is now starting to yellow so I decided that before the pages become brittle, I have to give it a try. I did not have any prior idea of what the novel is all about except that it was shortlisted in Booker. After 5 pages, I thought of dropping the book and then return it to my bookshelf. The reason: I have not read any James' books (shame on me) except with some sketchy ideas on Daisy Miller which is one of the books included in Azar Nafisi\u2019s Reading Lolita in Tehran. The blurbs on the first few pages of the The Master say that Colm Toibin adapted the Henry James\u2019 style of writing: calm literary realism. And this being a biographical fiction of Henry James life is also my first since I have not also read Michael Cunningham\u2019s The Hours which I heard also uses exactly same the approach: a splice of Virginia Woolf\u2019s life told in Woolf\u2019s stream-of-consciousness style of writing. But I persisted by reasoning to myself that I have to start somewhere. I am glad I did. This is an unforgettable read. There is nothing like it yet: the calm prose of Henry James. His silence as this novel\u2019s main character. Supposing that it is true that Coibin\u2019s style here is exactly the same as James\u2019, I particularly enjoyed his taut, luminescent and deep narration. Normally, a novel with characters not talking is boring for me but this one is different. I never knew that paragraphs and paragraphs of descriptions about what\u2019s going on in a character\u2019s mind can be interesting. Now I know better. If the character is as interesting as Henry James, who wrote the classic excellent novels like The Portrait of a Lady (1881), What Maisie Knew (1897), The Wings of the Dove (1902), and The Ambassadors (1903), among many others, coupled with the masterful prose by someone like Toibin, then definitely it should be a must-read. My favorite parts are those that describe the house in Rye in relation to James\u2019 reminiscences and thoughts. That is the house where James \u201chibernated\u201d after his flopped play in London. The house provides the main backdrop of this novel and it feels like it has a life of its own (just like the clock tower in Virginia Woolf\u2019s Mrs. Dalloway ) by the way Toibin described it in the James-like prose that is akin to an impressionist painting: vivid and detailed, depicting the right lighting and the right angle yet achieved with very minimal brushstrokes. For example, the first time Henry entered the house (descriptions: blah blah), while looking around, he saw his room (descriptions: blah blah). It dawned on him that it will be the place where he would die. What with the 21 years of mortgage and he was already 52. I cannot even paraphrase the blah-blah\u2019s because obviously I am neither Colm Toibin nor Henry James. For me, the main message of The Master is at some point in the second half of our lives, we need to look back and reflect on the first half to know where we are going or how we want to spend the rest of it. We get setbacks, yes, but those points should not stop us from what we want to do. Rather, those should inspire us to do more. While in seclusion, James reflected on the series of deaths (mother, father, sister Alice , cousin Milly , a friend) in the family and felt almost alone in his house by the bay in Rye except towards the end of the story when his elder brother William , his wife and daughter visited him. I mentioned those deaths because each of them brought out who James was (at least in the eyes or imagination of Toibin) : calm yet profound, loving yet detached, artistic yet devoid of dramatic nuances. After his 5-year stay in Rye, he was 57, he bounced back and wrote most of his more \u201ccomplete\u201d (his word; with The Ambassadors as what he called to be his favorite work) novels. Just to drive home the point that sometimes we have to slowdown or even stop, reflect, wind up, then continue what we were doing and possibly achieve greater success in life. Definitely, I will be reading some of the works of Heny James soon and probably pick up another book or two by Toibin. P.S. Colm Toibin is an all-out gay. Henry James was said to be gay too. His contemporary was Oscar Wilde who was an outlandish and scandalous (according to this book) gay. There are implied homosexual acts in the book but not as descriptive as in Augusten Burrough\u2019s Running With Scissors . Well, I should not have compared this masterpiece to that trashy memoir in the first place but I just want to give you a strong contrast just to point out that this, The Master is a must-read book for those who love the works of Henry James and of course Colm Toibin. But still if you are squeamish about gay love, this book is not for you. ...more Description: The Master tells the story of Henry James, a man born into one of America's first intellectual families two decades before the Civil War. In stunningly resonant prose, Tsibmn captures the loneliness and longing, the hope and despair of a man who never married, never resolved his sexual identity, and whose forays into intimacy inevitably failed him and those he tried to love. Withdrawn from London Borough of Redbridge Libraries FOR BAIRBRE AND MICHAEL STACK Opening: January 1895. Someti Description: The Master tells the story of Henry James, a man born into one of America's first intellectual families two decades before the Civil War. In stunningly resonant prose, Tsibmn captures the loneliness and longing, the hope and despair of a man who never married, never resolved his sexual identity, and whose forays into intimacy inevitably failed him and those he tried to love. Withdrawn from London Borough of Redbridge Libraries FOR BAIRBRE AND MICHAEL STACK Opening: January 1895. Sometimes in the night he dreamed about the dead - familiar faces and the others, half-forgotten ones, fleetingly summoned up. Now as he woke, it was, he imagined, an hour or more before the dawn; there would be no sound or movement for several hours. He touched the muscles on his neck which had become stiff; to his fingers they seemed unyielding and solid but not painful. As he moved his head, he could hear the muscles creaking. I am like an old door, he said to himself. Not being much of a Henry James fan I didn't mind the implications, yet do wonder if this was slightly bitchy. T\u00f3ib\u00edn is a wordsmith but there is that nasty taste left in the mouth. Nora Webster suited me far better. 3* The Master TR The Blackwater Lightship 4* Nora Webster LIDA - The Testament of Mary - subject matter does not appeal ...more \u201cNuanced\u201d is one of those great homological words. (\u201cPolysyllabic\u201d is the usual example \u2013 a word that describes itself.) When multiple blurbs for a book call it nuanced, you can bet it\u2019ll feature more in the way of inner life and less in the way of plot. Of course, this can be good or bad depending on how skilled the writer is, how interesting the drill-downs are, and the extent to which the M.O. might otherwise be hackneyed or boilerplate. It\u2019s like jazz standards. I\u2019m not talking about the ivo \u201cNuanced\u201d is one of those great homological words. (\u201cPolysyllabic\u201d is the usual example \u2013 a word that describes itself.) When multiple blurbs for a book call it nuanced, you can bet it\u2019ll feature more in the way of inner life and less in the way of plot. Of course, this can be good or bad depending on how skilled the writer is, how interesting the drill-downs are, and the extent to which the M.O. might otherwise be hackneyed or boilerplate. It\u2019s like jazz standards. I\u2019m not talking about the ivory tickler at Joe\u2019s Piano Bar in Des Moines \u2013 all glissandos and grace notes; I\u2019m thinking more like Jarrett, Peacock and DeJohnette, where nuance is everything. We already know the tune, so our favorite jazzmen can play us the complements instead, merely hinting occasionally at the melody. The indirections alter our balance just enough to enjoy the ride. Often it\u2019s the notes they don\u2019t play that are the most transcendent. (Thanks, Thelonious, for that insight.) Before I get too carried away, I should say what must already be obvious: The Master is nuanced. In a good way. The standards are themes like love, longing, grief and regret. Toibin comes at these in an understated way, with subtlety and refinement to spare. This is an interesting slice of biographical fiction based on the life of American-English writer Henry James. The action, such as it is, takes place from 1895 to 1899 in England and the continent. There is conflict, as any good book must include, but it\u2019s usually the personal kind. Toibin\u2019s account begins as Henry\u2019s new foray into play writing is given a bad reception. Meanwhile, Oscar Wilde\u2019s new play at a rival theatre was packing them in. For something to do the night his own play opened, Henry witnessed Wilde\u2019s production, where \u201cas the curtain rose and the audience began to laugh at lines which he thought crude and clumsy, he felt under siege. He did not laugh once; he thought not a moment was funny, but more importantly, he thought not a moment was true. Every line, every scene was acted out as though silliness were a higher manifestation of truth. No opportunity was missed in portraying witlessness as wit; the obvious and shallow and glib provoked the audience into hearty and hilarious laughter.\u201d Looks like Henry was quite the earnest highbrow, perhaps concluding that Wilde lacked nuance. Toibin did a good job going back and forth in time to give the context needed to understand the present-day Henry and his complicated relationships with people. One of these relationships was with Oliver Wendell Holmes who he knew from school days at Harvard. Here\u2019s another snippet that reveals more about Henry\u2019s perceptions (and Toibin\u2019s fine writing) as it applies to Holmes and other Americans Henry had known who later became famous. \"When they came to England, they appeared mysterious to him, so confident, so adept at finishing their sentences, so used to being listened to, and yet they seemed to him, compared to men of their kind in England and France, oddly raw and boyish, their brashness a kind of innocence.\" Another friend was the writer Constance Fenimore Woolson. She was also an American who lived in Europe. They travelled together, critiqued works of art together including each others, and might have become closer still had they both been the right types. Sadly, as Henry wrote to another friend, \u201cshe had always been a woman so little formed for positive happiness that half one\u2019s affection for her was, in its essence, a kind of anxiety.\u201d Before the book, I knew next to nothing about James aside from the fact that he was prolific and from a famous family. His father was a prominent intellectual, his brother William was a famous philosopher and psychologist, and his sister Alice was a noted diarist. Toibin\u2019s meticulous research provides what I\u2019m sure is the real deal. And there\u2019s plenty to be learned. To give the account even more authenticity, his text includes bits taken from letters by James, his friends and his family. Those familiar with James\u2019s books say that Toibin captured the voice well with his ornate sentences and keen observations. The back cover likened it to Michael Cunningham\u2019s book The Hours . Henry was sometimes hard to figure. His reluctance to act often had repercussions that were every bit as consequential as dramatic actions would have been. Several people \u2013 a favorite cousin, his sister, his friend Constance \u2013 expected him to share more of himself with them, but he was bound to disappoint, often using his work as an excuse. Then there was a failure to act on certain other impulses, which I\u2019ll come to in a moment. His brother William observed another aspect of his nature, fairly or not: \u201cI believe the English can never be your true subject. And I believe that your style has suffered through the strain of constantly dramatizing social insipidity. I think also that something cold and thin-blooded and oddly priggish has come to the fore in your content.\u201d Books like this which rely heavily on a sense of period often focus on manners, it seems. This may be especially true where the n-word (nuance) is involved. Isn\u2019t Jane Austen described as being all about manners? With her it was always women seeking men. With this one, it\u2019s man seeking, uh, we\u2019re not really sure, but it\u2019s pretty clearly from a vantage point deep within the closet. The impulses I mentioned earlier, felt but not pursued, fall under this category. You can read as much into this as you want, but to me it was just another part of a man with more going on beneath the surface than above it. Graced with nuance, the cowardice, the guilt, and the extreme sensitivity that would typically form an unsympathetic figure are combined with more redeeming traits to create an interesting composite. I wasn\u2019t always sure I liked the guy, but he had a lot of facets to consider. The only knock I have against the book is that with all the long descriptions, my mind would sometimes wander. That said, it often wandered in entertaining directions \u2013 character parsing and the ineffable way of folks. All in all, it was a solid 4-star experience. ...more This book belongs to that genre of literary novels which create an imagined life (based heavily on research) for an historical character, in this case, the great novelist, Henry James. (Because there are other James family members appearing throughout, in person and in recollection, I refer to Henry James as Henry rather than as the customary James.) Although the eleven chapters focus on the events taking place during specified months, beginning with January 1894 and ending with October 1899, the This book belongs to that genre of literary novels which create an imagined life (based heavily on research) for an historical character, in this case, the great novelist, Henry James. (Because there are other James family members appearing throughout, in person and in recollection, I refer to Henry James as Henry rather than as the customary James.) Although the eleven chapters focus on the events taking place during specified months, beginning with January 1894 and ending with October 1899, the narratives within often slide backwards in time, following Henry\u2019s thoughts as present actions remind him of past events. His mind is not bound to the times specified by the chapter titles. Not having been that familiar with Henry\u2019s life, as I read I would frequently take time out and explore biographical information about other characters (like Alice James, Constance Fenimore Woolson, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and Minny Temple) and stated events just to see how grounded this novel is in biography. What I discovered certainly matched up with how people and events are portrayed in the novel. Even though T\u00f3ib\u00edn has based the core of the novel on solid research (he credits Leon Edel\u2019s five-volume biography with the place of honor in his acknowledgements), this book soars far beyond biography because of the author\u2019s imaginative invention of Henry\u2019s state of mind. For me, the quiet and restrained tone of the novel speaks clearly about the personality of a man who has spent a lifetime approaching then running from people important to him and from his understanding of his own life. He lives in denial of his less than loving behavior towards his sister Alice, his cousin Minny Temple, and his dear friend Constance Fenimore Woolson. He invites them to visit him, to be a part of his life, then abandons them in fear of further responsibility or intimacy. Sometimes his retreats have devastating effects on those he loves. We see him bury his knowledge of his unloving actions, as he also buries his knowledge of his shortcomings, of his sexuality, of his feelings towards his family. An especially strong passage in the novel portrays the struggles between Henry and his older brother William. This part of the book crackles with reality, even though T\u00f3ib\u00edn has invented the conversations between these men. And there are other scenes like this one, which are too surprising and too satisfying to spoil by hinting at them here. T\u00f3ib\u00edn portrays Henry\u2019s interpretations of and imaginings about what is going on around him act as \u201csources\u201d of literary works written during 1994-1999 (like What Daisy Knew and \u201cThe Turn of the Screw\u201d) and also of those greatest novels written shortly after 1899 ( The Ambassadors, The Wings of the Dove , and The Golden Bowl ). Readers familiar with Henry\u2019s writings will hear echoes of them throughout. In its very quiet way this novel grip its readers and make us feel we are there. Even though I finished and returned this book to the library two weeks ago, I find myself thinking of it over and over. I may just have to go out and buy a copy so I can savor favorite passages and so I can eventually reread with a pencil in my hand. ...more usually i get frustrated and bogged down when the pace of a book is as slow as this one, and when the plot isn't really the point. but i loved loved loved this book, and loved its carefully crafted, meditative prose style. i found myself reading much more slowly than i usually do and thinking more about what was being said, so for me it was more of an interactive experience than reading usually is, and i loved that. the sentence structure was more challenging than the books i guess i've been rea usually i get frustrated and bogged down when the pace of a book is as slow as this one, and when the plot isn't really the point. but i loved loved loved this book, and loved its carefully crafted, meditative prose style. i found myself reading much more slowly than i usually do and thinking more about what was being said, so for me it was more of an interactive experience than reading usually is, and i loved that. the sentence structure was more challenging than the books i guess i've been reading recently. i found myself much more aware of myself reading somehow, and this added to my enjoyment of the book. usually i get absorbed in a book and am passively taking it in, and three hours later i finish and look up and move back into my life (kind of like sleeping). because of my awareness that i was reading, i could enjoy this book more. this is coming from someone who has never read a lick of james, though i now want to read as much as possible, as quickly as possible. also I will be reading much more of toibin. ...more Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn is a genius. In this novel, he explores the life and work of Henry James, spanning the period from 1895 to 1900. His characterization of James is so subtle and - dare I say? nuanced - that I was forced to keep on reading. Even though I don't particularly like Henry James or his work, by the time I finished this book, I was motivated to rethink my dislike. If you're a James fan, this is probably a five-star book for you. For the rest of us, it's somewhere between 3 and 4 stars. It def Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn is a genius. In this novel, he explores the life and work of Henry James, spanning the period from 1895 to 1900. His characterization of James is so subtle and - dare I say? nuanced - that I was forced to keep on reading. Even though I don't particularly like Henry James or his work, by the time I finished this book, I was motivated to rethink my dislike. If you're a James fan, this is probably a five-star book for you. For the rest of us, it's somewhere between 3 and 4 stars. It definitely reinforces my belief that almost anything T\u00f3ib\u00edn writes is worth adding to one's reading list. ...more The Master is the story of the key life-shaping experiences of Henry James. While we learn a lot about James' life, the book is not at all structured as a traditional biography. It begins late in James' life when he was settled in England and it has him reflect back on these experiences. In particular, three women, very close to him -- an invalid sister, a brilliant favorite cousin, and an author friend died relatively young. Another life-forming event was a summer camp experience with a large g The Master is the story of the key life-shaping experiences of Henry James. While we learn a lot about James' life, the book is not at all structured as a traditional biography. It begins late in James' life when he was settled in England and it has him reflect back on these experiences. In particular, three women, very close to him -- an invalid sister, a brilliant favorite cousin, and an author friend died relatively young. Another life-forming event was a summer camp experience with a large group of young people - siblings, friends and cousins, so formative, that in a sense James learned everything he needed to know about people to write his novels from this one experience. James had a lifelong love-hate relationship with his domineering older brother, the psychologists and scholar, William James. Growing up, James lived with his family in Cambridge in Boston and summered among the elite in Newport, Rhode Island. In this insular New England literary culture, James mentions one day he would like to meet Nathaniel Hawthorne. His father had talked with him last week; James, mother and aunt knew all the women in Hawthorne's family, and James' younger sibling went to school with Hawthorne's children. So, a small world in literary Boston. The author, who has written other gay-themed works (Blackwater Lightship) assumes James was a closet gay who never consummated a relationship with man or woman. Thus Toibin focuses many of James' formative experiences along this theme - sharing a bed as a youth with Oliver Wendell Holms, or enduring the inquiries of a good friend who, when names of customers of Oscar Wilde's \"rent boys\" were going to be made public during that affair, pressed James in so many words: \"Well, will you be leaving for France like the others?\" And the criticism, including that by his brother, why a MAN would want to write stories about WOMEN. James did have a love affair -- with a house -- now the Lamb House, open to the public in Rye on England's south coast. There is humor, such as James' drawn-out effort to fire an elderly husband and wife butler-cook team who had become alcoholics. It's a great book; like most of James' work, it is much more interesting than it sounds; indeed it's a fascinating read, and James comes off as aloof but likeable. ...more If you'd like to get a feel for the personality and life of Henry James without struggling (g), try this book. Colm Toibin, author of _The Master_, imitates Henry James' style as he tells this fictionalized biography of part of Henry James' life. I found it thrilling to feel so close to Henry James who has always seemed so distant as a writer. It was interesting to learn, as I read Henry's inner thoughts, that he suffered from self-doubt . He was human after all. It was also interesting to read how If you'd like to get a feel for the personality and life of Henry James without struggling (g), try this book. Colm Toibin, author of _The Master_, imitates Henry James' style as he tells this fictionalized biography of part of Henry James' life. I found it thrilling to feel so close to Henry James who has always seemed so distant as a writer. It was interesting to learn, as I read Henry's inner thoughts, that he suffered from self-doubt . He was human after all. It was also interesting to read how James created his stories by taking ideas from the lives of real people in his own life. The book relates Henry James' thoughts about his brother, the psychologist William James, as well as Henry's interaction with other relatives and close friends. At times Henry seems rather wistful and even sentimental as he thinks about the \"unrecoverable past\". Author Toibin talks of how Henry goes through the rooms of his house observing them carefully \"so that they could be remembered and captured and held\". The book says: \"He moved around it relishing the silence and the emptiness\". I got the impression that Henry James enjoyed his solitude. In the acknowledgments, Toibin says: \"I wish to acknowledge that I have peppered the text with phrases and sentences from the writings of Henry James and his family.\" ...more A thoughtful portrait of James' life and a beautiful read throughout. The story unfolds over a five-year period at the end of the 1890's, but also flashes back vividly to formative moments: the near misses of love, the quiet glances, the refrain from war, the peculiar family, the expressive lingering, and the solidifying artistic temperament. If ever a life embodied Yeats' maxim on the either/or nature of artistic endeavour, it was James'. His commitment was bold and serene, but he gave up much A thoughtful portrait of James' life and a beautiful read throughout. The story unfolds over a five-year period at the end of the 1890's, but also flashes back vividly to formative moments: the near misses of love, the quiet glances, the refrain from war, the peculiar family, the expressive lingering, and the solidifying artistic temperament. If ever a life embodied Yeats' maxim on the either/or nature of artistic endeavour, it was James'. His commitment was bold and serene, but he gave up much in the process, and endured a world that he knew would turn its back on him if ever his true self dared to come out into the open. His recompense seems slight in some ways; in others, extraordinary. ...more In \"The Art of Fiction,\" Henry James advises the beginning novelist, \"Try to be one of the people on whom nothing is lost!\" Unfortunately, much of James's insight is now lost on us. He grows more revered and unread with each passing decade. Shifting tastes, including a century of sensory overload, have rendered his social and emotional precision almost invisible. Students still struggle through his ghost story, \"Turn of the Screw,\" but he's otherwise drifted off high school reading lists. When f In \"The Art of Fiction,\" Henry James advises the beginning novelist, \"Try to be one of the people on whom nothing is lost!\" Unfortunately, much of James's insight is now lost on us. He grows more revered and unread with each passing decade. Shifting tastes, including a century of sensory overload, have rendered his social and emotional precision almost invisible. Students still struggle through his ghost story, \"Turn of the Screw,\" but he's otherwise drifted off high school reading lists. When forced to confront \"Portrait of a Lady\" or \"The Ambassadors,\" college students find him effete, boring, obsessed with irrelevant issues of class structure and manners. It doesn't help that we pretend there is no class structure in America; there are certainly no manners. James was not unaware of the problem of finding an audience. His older brother William, the legendary psychologist at Harvard, suggested that his novels were insipid and priggish. His effort to take London by storm led to one of the most disastrous opening nights in theatrical history. He depended on the family fortune to sustain him when - frequently - writing couldn't. Whatever his struggles for an audience, he enjoyed particularly good fortune in attracting a biographer. Leon Edel spent the better part of his career chronicling James's life in five volumes, which won a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award. And now James has seduced a novelist commensurate with his own sensibilities. \"The Master,\" a new biographical novel by Irishman Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn, reflects all the brilliance and challenge of Henry James's work, sweeping through the author's life and mind with a scope that's both broad and precise. It's not likely to win any new fans for James, but lapsed ones should feel roused by it, and members of the cult will embrace \"The Master\" as a new testament. T\u00f3ib\u00edn narrates in the omniscient third person, focused on James's perspective, a kind of \"What Henry Knew.\" The carefully labeled chapters, starting with \"January 1895\" through \"October 1899,\" belie the novel's extraordinarily complex and fluid structure. T\u00f3ib\u00edn seems to have memorized the voluminous journals, letters, and published works of the whole eccentric James clan, allowing him to re-create conversations and interior monologues with remarkable fidelity. He enjoys total command of the decades that were the foundation for these five years, and tends to refer to events and people long before they've been clearly identified for us. Indeed, anyone less familiar with James's life, which is likely to include everyone but Leon Edel, will experience periods of bewilderment, but for those with the stamina to persevere, the rewards here are extraordinary. The novel opens in London during preparations for \"Guy Domville,\" a play James wrote when he sensed (incorrectly) that his days as a novelist were over. \"He awaited the opening night,\" T\u00f3ib\u00edn writes, \"with a mixture of pure optimism - an absolute certainty that the play would hit home - and a deep anxiety, a sense that worldly glamour and universal praise would never be offered him.\" Too nervous to watch his own opening, he attends Oscar Wilde's \"An Ideal Husband\" nearby and loathes it. \"The writing, line by line, was a mockery of writing,\" he thinks, \"an appeal for cheap laughs, cheap responses.\" Leaving Wilde's smashing success, he walks back to his own theater in time to receive a torrent of boos and catcalls. The experience - with its particularly public dimension - devastates him and throws him back into fiction with grim expectations. But T\u00f3ib\u00edn catches in James's response a mingled sense of humiliation and superiority: \"He had failed, he realized, to take the measure of the great flat foot of the public.\" Meanwhile, Wilde's spectacular success aggravates his disappointment and envy further (another one of Wilde's plays opens in the theater that \"Guy Domville\" exits). It also introduces a major theme in \"The Master\": James's ambiguous sexual orientation, treated here, like everything else in this story, with exquisite subtlety. James listens hungrily to news of the playwright's outrageous behavior with a strictly enforced air of casual detachment. He's too elegant to gloat over Wilde's trial, too terrified to pant over Wilde's exploits. This portrayal of intense but unarticulated desire is a triumph of wit and psychological precision. Another scene of James lying awake all night next to a naked and presumably straight Oliver Wendell Holmes is even funnier and just as brilliant. As the novel moves through James's relationships with his sister, his cousin, a friend's butler, and a young sculptor, we see again and again the same tension between his attraction to these people and a desperate need to withhold himself from them. \"He found the waiting for them, the sense of expectation before a visit, the most blissful time of all,\" T\u00f3ib\u00edn writes. \"He also relished the days after the guest had departed, he enjoyed the peace of the house, as though the visit had been nothing except a battle for solitude which he had finally won.\" What's most touching, even heart-wrenching, is the way those closest to James accommodate his detachment as the price of his friendship. He and the novelist Constance Fenimore Woolson, for instance, enjoy a passionate meeting of minds in Italy. But as she sinks deeper into depression, she never dares to ask outright for his help, and he never stoops to answer her veiled cries. In every case, the people who desperately need him allow him to perpetuate the illusion that they're as self-sufficient as he is. Only as the casualties mount and a few friends have the nerve to confront him with his own ruthlessness is he willing to consider the fear of entanglement that cauterizes his affections. T\u00f3ib\u00edn's work displays the kind of depth and sensitivity that few authors can offer - or demand. After all, writing a novel that captures Henry James is like deriving an equation that calculates Albert Einstein. It's an audacious attempt that manages to beat the master at his own game, while avoiding the perils of parody or sycophancy. The result is a beautiful, haunting portrayal that measures the amplitude of silence and the trajectory of a glance in the life of one of the world's most astute social observers. http://www.csmonitor.com/2004/0525/p1... ...more It's pretty audacious to make Henry James the hero of your book. T\u00f3ib\u00edn starts by showing us this deeply closeted, repressed guy: this is the Henry James we know. But then: he goes deeper, writing him as not just closeted but a coward, a selfish guy, and you're like whoa, hey. And then he goes even deeper and shows the terrible damage he's inflicted on everyone around him through his cowardice and selfishness, and you realize T\u00f3ib\u00edn hasn't made James the hero of his book; he's made him the villa It's pretty audacious to make Henry James the hero of your book. T\u00f3ib\u00edn starts by showing us this deeply closeted, repressed guy: this is the Henry James we know. But then: he goes deeper, writing him as not just closeted but a coward, a selfish guy, and you're like whoa, hey. And then he goes even deeper and shows the terrible damage he's inflicted on everyone around him through his cowardice and selfishness, and you realize T\u00f3ib\u00edn hasn't made James the hero of his book; he's made him the villain. That's audacious. Or something. This is a subtle book, and like the best books it acts as a mirror. Many of us have caused damage to some of those around us, in the course of being our shitty selves. We have varying amounts of angst about it. I have a lot of angst about my damage, and I'm not inclined to forgive Henry James. T\u00f3ib\u00edn has talked about his \"pure admiration for figures who, unlike myself, weren\u2019t afraid ( Oscar Wilde, Bacon, Almod\u00f3var),\" naming three more or less openly gay artists. I think he identifies with James, and I think there's some self-flagellation going on here. Not that I know anything about Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn (Cull 'em Toe-BEAN, btw); I'm going entirely by the quote above. So...how do you feel about your damage? There's an ambush spoiler for Portrait of a Lady in the boring last chapter, be aware. ...more The Master tells about Henry James from the inside out and back. The insight into the author's psych is mesmerizing and daring. He also gives a picture of those times' society, with the rich who offered their palaces, parties and company to artists all over Europe, and the artists who stayed as guests for months. Henry James has enjoyed this kind of hospitality but he has also treasured his solitude. It's hinted more than once and in various ways that he was homosexual, but either he was a-sexed The Master tells about Henry James from the inside out and back. The insight into the author's psych is mesmerizing and daring. He also gives a picture of those times' society, with the rich who offered their palaces, parties and company to artists all over Europe, and the artists who stayed as guests for months. Henry James has enjoyed this kind of hospitality but he has also treasured his solitude. It's hinted more than once and in various ways that he was homosexual, but either he was a-sexed or Toibin refrains from getting deeper into his sexuality. Constance's story appears somewhat late in the book, first her destiny and then her relationships with Henry James. However, I found the book masterful in the way it brought to life the author's (the master's) complex personality and sharp mind.. And something funny from Toibin: http://flavorwire.com/22013/exclusive... BoldType: In addition to being categorized as an Irish writer you\u2019re also described as a gay writer. How do you react to these inevitable labels? Do you think they\u2019re beneficial, or can they be alienating? CT: I am also bald. I don\u2019t notice a section on us in bookstores. I think you\u2019re best to look at these labels as oddly comic. A few years ago, someone wrote to me to ask for comments about publishing and gay novelists. It was strange. I had been working so hard, and thinking only about my book, that I had forgotten I was gay. I think it\u2019s easier to be gay on holidays, or at the weekend, or late at night, when you\u2019re not otherwise busy. ...more This has been the perfect book for me, never once a disappointment over my slow months of reading it, and I am so grateful. My gratitude is enhanced by its unpredictability: Henry James has never become very readable for me, as I tried to do when I was very young. Now I see that I had been misled by a teacher who had too small a concept of the age and patience reading James requires. So I had led myself to open The Ambassadors , never quite figuring out a word of it, thinking at times it had been This has been the perfect book for me, never once a disappointment over my slow months of reading it, and I am so grateful. My gratitude is enhanced by its unpredictability: Henry James has never become very readable for me, as I tried to do when I was very young. Now I see that I had been misled by a teacher who had too small a concept of the age and patience reading James requires. So I had led myself to open The Ambassadors , never quite figuring out a word of it, thinking at times it had been written through thick gauze and then translated from some other language. As a result, James has always stood as the embodiment of high sensibility, a lofty poshness of bloodless prose, hardly an American writer at all. Not Dreiser or Howells, certainly not Whitman, not Emerson. Not that kind of mastery or sensuality. How my affection for a novel about Henry James has occurred is a mystery. A mystery: I think that is the purpose reading, to find a mystery at its heart. Any reading, newspaper, diary, garden book. Why does this happen? What must happen next? How does this engender thought? What are these unprecedented thoughts? The Master was an experience of slow, interrupted reading, always in the background as I struggled to write a long chapter about the aesthetics of fiction, and how that art works within us as we read and live it. Toward the end, the essay uses the words of Mark Edmundson. \"\u201cThe test of a book lies in its power to map or transform a life. The question we would ultimately ask of any work of art is this: Can you live it?\u201d ( Why Read? , p. 129) I lived this book and experienced the qualities of light in its English and Italian rooms. I noted its extraordinary feelings: the interior longing for confidence in love; the complexity and doubt of human relationships, doubling and folding over with age and memory; and the immeasurable distances between persons seated in the same room, gazing at the same sculpture, or grieving the same loss. Reading slowly, I lived Henry's thinking, lived at Henry's pace. The novel begins in 1895 and ends in 1899, just as the year turns into a new age. Henry, born in 1843, will die in 1916, outliving his siblings. William James and his wife Alice are strongly present in the final chapter; their parents, sister Alice and two brothers are present in flashbacks as well. (The mother sends a message from the grave, in fact.) This period includes a catastrophic writing failure; finding a home away from London; a retrospective view of the Civil War, inspired by a visit from Oliver Wendell Holmes; travel to Italy; surviving the loss of a beloved woman; a passionate but unconsummated friendship with a young sculptor; a family reconciliation with a view toward death. A book, therefore, about loneliness and silence; about exile and about being American; about a complicated family of genius; about responsibility and guilt; about creating a place for oneself; about sleeping alone for a long lifetime. At the end of the book, speaking about writing with the visiting Edmund Gosse (who is about to write about his own conflicted life in Father and Son ) Henry is asked to tell \"the moral\" of planned stories he has begun to write. One story is about a man who anticipates something dreadful for all his life, not seeing until it is too late that \"his own coldness\" is the catastrophe. Another is about an intelligent man with a suppressed \"sensuous nature.\" Toibin writes, \"'The Moral?' Henry thought for a moment. 'The moral is the most pragmatic we can imagine, that life is a mystery and that only sentences are beautiful, and that we must be ready for change ...\" The moment is celebratory and light, in fact, but it closes with these truths: Henry embodies human resonance in all its unclarity, and sentences are beautiful. Toibin is himself a master of the telling, knifepoint sentence. In a recent interview he says he once told a class, \u201cYou have to be a terrible monster to write.\" That is, you must be willing to cut out and thieve the intimacies of others for your fiction and coldly put them on display. And yet here, Henry James has had five years of his life, and all the ruminations in it, stolen for these pages in a way that softens his monstrosity for me, and elevates the writer's heartlessness to a form of exquisite art. It helps me to revise my thinking, and to understand the irony that the failed writer fails because he has not been heartless enough. This is a book that I will not recommend because my joy as its reader cannot be trusted or assumed to transfer, though I think it is a rare and unpredictably moving masterpiece. I am now a decade older than Henry James was in 1899 and I too am far from where I started. I understand his distances from others; his disappointments with himself; the definitive Jamesian quality of restraint and longing; the desire and captivity of words. But I can just barely imagine the density of the tapestries of James's perceptions, their great weight; the continuities traced among lives and settings; nor can I fully grasp the rooms, the images in those mindful tapestries. However, I think with great admiration that they have been beautifully taken from the master and threaded here by Toibin's hand. ...more it's been a couple weeks since i finished _the master_, so i approach this review with both the benefit of critical distance and the burden of a poor memory for detail. ostensibly a fictional account of the life and inner mental workings of henry james, _the master_ ironically succeeds in painting nuanced portraits of james's cohorts while treating james himself as little more than a caricature-montage of social withdrawal, repressed homosexuality and inadvertant emotional carelessness. While one it's been a couple weeks since i finished _the master_, so i approach this review with both the benefit of critical distance and the burden of a poor memory for detail. ostensibly a fictional account of the life and inner mental workings of henry james, _the master_ ironically succeeds in painting nuanced portraits of james's cohorts while treating james himself as little more than a caricature-montage of social withdrawal, repressed homosexuality and inadvertant emotional carelessness. While one may argue that because james's contemporaries are presented through his own intellectual prism (the book is written in third person free indirect discourse) we can infer his mental disposition through those portraits, the reader is ultimately left with a confusing authorial dynamic that in bizarre ways pits toibin against james; in point of fact, we simply can't know whether the depictions of minny temple, constance fenimore woolston, et al, are toibin's own or ones that can be safely ascribed to james the historical personage. maybe it doesn't really matter. _the master_ also flaunts its exhaustive research on the events of james's life without seeming to realize that the historical accuracy of where he lived in which years and with whom he dined can be of no import to most readers (save the odd 19th century lit professor here and there). while i applaud toibin for the homework, _the master_ grafts historical occurrences onto an otherwise interesting story with excessive fervor. similary, toibin draws correlations between james's historical circumstances and his novels with a bit too much ease. in many cases, an interaction here or there gives rise to an immediate emotional epiphany and, in turn, a major james novel. i admire the attempt to assimilate james's life with his art, but i find it hard to believe that something minor happens and, bang, he churns out _portrait of a lady_. there can be no question that toibin's prose is fluid and engaging, if a bit precious, and i found the descriptions of american life abroad among the educated rich at the turn of the 20th century extremely compelling, but in the end i expected more from a book recommended by the inimitable andrea lynch (as well as the booker prize committee), both of whose taste is generally flawless. ...more This is my first Colm Toibin, and it definitely won\u2019t be the last - he writes so beautifully, it is a joy to read, and this alone would earn top marks for me. But I did find the subject matter disorienting. I did not do any research before starting this novel, and so I can only presume that a lot of what the Henry James does and writes is based on Toibin\u2019s own research, perusal of correspondence, and so on. But what about what Henry James thinks? How he feels? Hammond\u2019s hand on his shoulder, the This is my first Colm Toibin, and it definitely won\u2019t be the last - he writes so beautifully, it is a joy to read, and this alone would earn top marks for me. But I did find the subject matter disorienting. I did not do any research before starting this novel, and so I can only presume that a lot of what the Henry James does and writes is based on Toibin\u2019s own research, perusal of correspondence, and so on. But what about what Henry James thinks? How he feels? Hammond\u2019s hand on his shoulder, the meaningful silences peppering most conversations, the dress that wouldn\u2019t sink in Venice lagoon: these are the culprits in Toibin\u2019s 'Henry James whodunnit\u2019, these are the details and nuances that answer who James really was. There must be much of Toibin\u2019s himself in this: does he also borrow heavily from those around him to create his story? Does he also savour the peace of the morning, does he long for work, or is he overcome by darkness at the end of a novel like Constance? The mix of fiction and fact, a writer interpreting another writer did disorient me, and at times I lost touch with the novel itself, as when watching a movie or play in which the identity of the famous superstar actor does not allow you to suspend belief and fall into the plot. Just one caveat: after finishing the book, I have read several reviews, most of which put homosexuality (mostly James\u2019 undeclared one) centre stage, often relating it to that of Toibin\u2019s himself - this seem to occupy a disproportionate share of the reviews. Of course sexuality is part of being human, and Toibin depicts James\u2019 sexuality as complex as anyone\u2019s - but that is about it, and turning this as the main theme of the book is to me thoroughly unfair, detracting from the many layers of this beautiful book. A thoroughly recommended read. ...more Margaret Drabble, Tracy Chevalier, Sarah Dunnant et al. , please take note: this is good historical fiction. Although it was unclear to me at first the extent to which Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn's beautiful book The Master is historical fiction and to what extent it is biography. Whatever it is, I absolutely adore it. I don't know much about Henry James (in fact, I'm somewhat ashamed to say I've never read any of his books - I'll get to it eventually I promise), but from reading some reviews, I get the impression Margaret Drabble, Tracy Chevalier, Sarah Dunnant et al. , please take note: this is good historical fiction. Although it was unclear to me at first the extent to which Colm T\u00f3ib\u00edn's beautiful book The Master is historical fiction and to what extent it is biography. Whatever it is, I absolutely adore it. I don't know much about Henry James (in fact, I'm somewhat ashamed to say I've never read any of his books - I'll get to it eventually I promise), but from reading some reviews, I get the impression that The Master is a whole lot of speculation based around a framework of real events. This doesn't actually bother me at all. I am fast coming to realise that characterisation may well be my favourite thing about literature, and I know from experience that filling in the gaps of what you don't know about a character in a way that may not be strictly true but is true to the personality of the character as you know them is one of the single most enjoyable and satisfying things you can do. In relation to this, I'd like to quote this review from The Guardian: \"How the books grow out of the life is the novel's deepest story. The phrase \"I can imagine\" crops up several times in the imaginary conversations. It irritated me, as it seemed so anomalous - but it's a clue to what T\u00f3ib\u00edn is doing. He shows us James's capacity for imagining his way in minute detail into, say, the state of mind of an abandoned child, his superhuman attention to \"figures seen from a window or a doorway, a small gesture standing for a much larger relationship, something hidden suddenly revealed\". T\u00f3ib\u00edn too \"can imagine\" his way into Henry James with exceptional attention - and, particularly, into the process of turning his own \"personal store\" of memories and relationships into fiction. Sometimes he allows himself simplistic biographical links, but at its best, the novel deals carefully and subtly with the complicated, mysterious process of how a novelist - above all, this master-novelist - goes about 'masking and unmasking himself'.\" It is such a clear, if often unflattering, portrait of James that I feel like I know this man I had barely heard of before. He is gorgeously flawed. He is idealistic, selfish, snobbish, self-absorbed, self-justifying and so, so, so believable. I fell in love with his flaws again and again and again. It helps that he is also endlessly introspective. I adore introspection. I suspect I indulge in it far too often, but then perhaps so does T\u00f3ib\u00edn's James. I have only two possible criticisms of this book, and I say 'possible' because I'm not entirely convinced that they are bad things. The first is an occasional tendency to lapse into sentimentality. I hate sentimentality, so I suppose it's telling that it barely grated at all in this case. To me it seemed to be in character, and I barely noticed it except occasionally when it maybe got a tiny, tiny bit out of hand. So tiny I can't even think of an example, which is pretty pathetic on my part and says a lot for the inconsequentiality of this criticism. The second is that it is highly episodic. First he talks about the failure of James's play Guy Domville, but then he goes straight onto something else, I think it might have been James's relationship with his cousin Minny Temple. From there, on to something else. It frustrated me a bit. Some novel-reading part of me wanted it to have some common thread arching throughout. Although Guy Domville is portrayed as such a crucial event of James's life, it is only mentioned occasionally in the latter part (by which I mean almost all) of the book, and then only as a very, very marginal comment. I didn't sense that any of the episodes were more important or central than any others, though of course there are themes present throughout - the conflict between public and private life being an obvious one - but somehow I wanted at least one of the events to be more omnipresent. The reason I wonder if this is really a criticism is because once again, it is true to life. Life is episodic. We have our temporary preoccupations, our transient obsessions. Something that seems monumental at the time will have receded into the minutiae of the past after a few days - weeks - months - years. It is rare for one event to dictate the course of one's life, and for this I doubt my own assessment. I'd like to end on a quote from the book itself. ' \"I view the historical novel as tainted by a fatal cheapness and if you want a statement from me on the matter... it would be all one word.\" Henry said. \"One simple word. It would all be humbug!\" ' I too have felt this intrinsic 'cheapness' of the historical fiction genre, and it is so all-pervasive that I have come to equate the two. Perhaps this is unfair. No matter. Simply rest assured that there is nothing whatsoever that is 'cheap' or 'humbug' about The Master. ...more I liked Brooklyn and wanted to read more of T\u00f3ib\u00edn's work. Maybe this wasn't the right choice, but all the praises and reviews and awards seem to suggest otherwise. Granted I'm not a fan of James, I have no formed opinion of James, having never read his work, though I saw the film adaptations and they never made me want to read James. Like some classic literature tends to, James' work seemed to be something of a ploddingly slow variety, although most likely well written. Appropriately enough jus I liked Brooklyn and wanted to read more of T\u00f3ib\u00edn's work. Maybe this wasn't the right choice, but all the praises and reviews and awards seem to suggest otherwise. Granted I'm not a fan of James, I have no formed opinion of James, having never read his work, though I saw the film adaptations and they never made me want to read James. Like some classic literature tends to, James' work seemed to be something of a ploddingly slow variety, although most likely well written. Appropriately enough just like The Master itself. As a historical fiction, it's an interesting read on the late 1800s. As a novel, it's positively soporific. James comes across as a fairly dispassionate observer of life, who travels through Europe witnessing more so than experiencing. Despite having written of complex human emotions and, of course, the chief one of them all...love, it doesn't appear as though James has actually engaged in any of it, aside from his unrealized homosexual longings. It isn't particularly engaging to read about an unengaged, emotionally aloof character, regardless of his place in the literary realm. T\u00f3ib\u00edn is unquestionably a very talented writer, he does some spectacular things with words. It just wasn't enough in this instance to entertain, delight or even sometimes keep awake. The completist in me stubbornly stuck around for the duration, but was glad to see it over. Fans of James' work might really enjoy discovering inspirations behind their favorite books and this was obviously a well liked well reviewed novel. Just didn't work for me personally. ...more My rating: 3.5 stars This is the fictionalized story of Henry James life in the period of 1895 to 1899. The author describes his turbulent family life, including the suicide of his father, the tragic and early death of his sister Alice, his cousin Minny Temple who suffered from tuberculosis. Along the narrative, the author show the influence and/or friendship of some authors on Henry James during the referred period of time of this book: John Gray , Oscar Wilde among many others. His strong friendshi My rating: 3.5 stars This is the fictionalized story of Henry James life in the period of 1895 to 1899. The author describes his turbulent family life, including the suicide of his father, the tragic and early death of his sister Alice, his cousin Minny Temple who suffered from tuberculosis. Along the narrative, the author show the influence and/or friendship of some authors on Henry James during the referred period of time of this book: John Gray , Oscar Wilde among many others. His strong friendship with Constance Fenimore Woolson - the great-niece of James Fenimore Cooper - played an important role in James\u2019s females characters. His relationship with Hendrik Christian Andersen is also described in this book. Another interesting book on the same subject as Toibin\u2019s book is A Private Life Of Henry James - Two Women & His Art by Lyndall Gordon. 4* Nora Webster 3.5* The Master TBR Brooklyn TBR The Blackwater Lightship TBR The Testament of Mary TBR The Heather Blazing ...more The Master is the fictionalized biography of author Henry James. James was born of a wealthy Boston family, but lived much of his life in Europe. Throughout this book, James struggles in his relationships with both family and friends. He never completely loses his aloof standoffish behavior as well as the book hints of a struggle accepting or exploring his sexuality. I have to say that I really struggled with this book. As I read over other people's reviews and I kept thinking - Is that the same The Master is the fictionalized biography of author Henry James. James was born of a wealthy Boston family, but lived much of his life in Europe. Throughout this book, James struggles in his relationships with both family and friends. He never completely loses his aloof standoffish behavior as well as the book hints of a struggle accepting or exploring his sexuality. I have to say that I really struggled with this book. As I read over other people's reviews and I kept thinking - Is that the same book? Maybe it is because I've only read 1 short story by Henry James - The Turn of the Screw. As the novel covered how James came up with his ideas for the characters and plot of this ghost story, I did find that interesting. But I kept on hoping for a breakthrough in his own personal life. Either by developing a long lasting friendship, or at least acceptance/contentment with his life. Maybe my dissatisfaction was due to the audio production - the narrator, Ralph Cosham was flat and morose (which seemed to match James' life...). Not a great listen for me. ...more There is proof that each book has its own time. I started The Master a few years back and gave it up soon after because of it being so slow paced. But there was nothing I needed lately than a slow paced book (with some interruptions for the latest Downton Abbey season). I'm still under the spell of T\u00f3ib\u00edn's prose, thinking it might take a while till I'll find something to equal it. Bring on the Nobel, please! Oh, and I wonder how come this was translated in Romanian and Brooklyn wasn't (since it There is proof that each book has its own time. I started The Master a few years back and gave it up soon after because of it being so slow paced. But there was nothing I needed lately than a slow paced book (with some interruptions for the latest Downton Abbey season). I'm still under the spell of T\u00f3ib\u00edn's prose, thinking it might take a while till I'll find something to equal it. Bring on the Nobel, please! Oh, and I wonder how come this was translated in Romanian and Brooklyn wasn't (since it would definitely sell better, I bet). ...more It takes extreme self-confidence, experience and balls to write fiction about the life of a Master like Henry James. This book is brilliantly written and couldn't seem more accurate in capturing what must have been the conflicts and pleasures and everyday challenges of James. It perfectly describes his conflicting needs for solitude and society, family and privacy and passion and friendship. Toibin adroitly captures James' unceasing drive to continue working. This book reminds me of, The Hours, in It takes extreme self-confidence, experience and balls to write fiction about the life of a Master like Henry James. This book is brilliantly written and couldn't seem more accurate in capturing what must have been the conflicts and pleasures and everyday challenges of James. It perfectly describes his conflicting needs for solitude and society, family and privacy and passion and friendship. Toibin adroitly captures James' unceasing drive to continue working. This book reminds me of, The Hours, in that it is totally believable as truth. ...more This nuance and core of Henry James is well written, poignant and reflects his particular time within intellectual company and artistic world. The mood it captures is caught within a real substance of Henry James' thoughts, feelings, desires, and psychological core. Also reflecting reaction and reality for some of his most prized and potentially closest friends/peers. He is so dubious and conflicted to what he wants that this tale just does not strongly appeal to me. So much thinking, so much fe This nuance and core of Henry James is well written, poignant and reflects his particular time within intellectual company and artistic world. The mood it captures is caught within a real substance of Henry James' thoughts, feelings, desires, and psychological core. Also reflecting reaction and reality for some of his most prized and potentially closest friends/peers. He is so dubious and conflicted to what he wants that this tale just does not strongly appeal to me. So much thinking, so much feeling, so much coiling back in ultimate response. In nearly every venue or purpose or living pattern- he is as much repelled as he is attracted. To intimacy, to company, to joyful occupation, to commitments. The captures of such failures for \"fit\" seem to please most readers. They empathize and are able to conceptualize the elements that often make us (humans) unable to connect or satisfy our own emotive psychological goals. Lots of people in other venues or economic classes (not only in the four years before 1900), especially those who have core action or completion of \"doing\" as part of their lives' work or occupation, often say that this exact kind of conceptualizing (as in the majority of thought patterns expressed as Henry James' within this novel) is the \"paralysis of analysis\". Sad. Very sad. As opposed to others who have read this book and said they couldn't put it down. I sure could. I started this book 3 times over a period of 4 months. VERY usual for my reading habits to actually complete it. Very Irish and quite intellectual. Much like Henry James' novels are, IMHO. They just do not appeal to me for emotive heart much either. Over-intellectual parsing for nearly everything. Regardless for the places and times- any determining action with elemental or plain kindness of simple premises would fly. But undecided and dire, morose limbo goes \"forward\" instead. The art in the written word to capture this was above average. Especially to the various placements and interesting peers. Real first world problems. ...more I loved this book by the wonderful Irish writer Colm Toibin. His prose is a pleasure to read and bask in. This novel, a fictionalized life of 19th Century writer Henry James - his \"Portrait of a Lady\" is one of my favorite novels - is moving and detailed. Toibin's Henry James is a lonely, sexually repressed man who seemed to have an attraction to both men and women. His great and most intimate friend was a woman, and her suicide in Venice strongly disturbed him. Throughout the novel, however, Ja I loved this book by the wonderful Irish writer Colm Toibin. His prose is a pleasure to read and bask in. This novel, a fictionalized life of 19th Century writer Henry James - his \"Portrait of a Lady\" is one of my favorite novels - is moving and detailed. Toibin's Henry James is a lonely, sexually repressed man who seemed to have an attraction to both men and women. His great and most intimate friend was a woman, and her suicide in Venice strongly disturbed him. Throughout the novel, however, James remained celibate. Though he had an obvious attraction to two men, his greatest pleasure - and escape - came from being alone in a room and writing. He craved that aloneness. (Incidentally, James was a contemporary of Oscar Wilde, but didn't care much for his life style or his writing.)This novel nicely details the times and the places where he lived: His growing up in New York and New England, his travels to Paris and Italy - especially to Rome and Venice - and living out most of his life in England. (His comparison to two visits to Rome, I think they were twenty or thirty years apart, was interesting to read.) Though James came across as a lonely man, he had a family that he was close to: especially to a sister that died and a famous brother, William James, the philosopher and psychologist, with whom he had a complex relationship. He also had many friends and acquaintances and socialized wherever he happened to be. I also liked the way Toibin depicted James' writing process - how an idea, a fragment of an experience, developed into a story. I did not want this beautifully-written novel to end. ...more A good one. Very nice. I'd recommend this book to people like my former roommate, who read the first page of \"Wings of the Dove\" and then threw it across the room while saying, \"WTF is this shit?\" That is to say, this is book for people to read who can't stand Henry James' style: the long sentences, etc. I am a James fan but I definitely concur that you totes have to be in the mood and that it's definitely a matter of taste. So yeah, I liked this book and looked forward to reading it. At times I A good one. Very nice. I'd recommend this book to people like my former roommate, who read the first page of \"Wings of the Dove\" and then threw it across the room while saying, \"WTF is this shit?\" That is to say, this is book for people to read who can't stand Henry James' style: the long sentences, etc. I am a James fan but I definitely concur that you totes have to be in the mood and that it's definitely a matter of taste. So yeah, I liked this book and looked forward to reading it. At times I felt like the author was positing this hyper critical portrayal of James (specifically in regards to his repressed bisexuality--IDK if that's true or not; it is according to this book). That made me feel resistant at times because I don't like it when an author is trying to forcefully make me think or feel a specific way; I'd rather just come to my own conclusions. But now that I think about it, it could have been a lot worse. I guess the best word to use for the author's attitude is \"unflinching.\" But yeah, lots of powerful moments and scenes in this book. The part where Henry smells the army jacket of his brother in the Civil War. The part where he throws the dresses of his BFF who committed suicide (implicitly because of him) into the Venice waters and they keep bobbing to the surface. Like \"Beast in the Jungle\" or \"Turn in the Screw,\" these moments are creepy, sad but delicious. This book will make you want to spend a lot of time on google afterwards and try to learn things like, was Edmund Gosse really homosexual, and was William James really kind of an a-hole. Recommended. ...more This is quite an intriguing novel\u2014it is based on a real character and T\u00f3ib\u00edn makes extensive use of the letters, works, and biographies of Henry James but fictionalises the writer\u2019s inner life, its motives, its guilt, its anguished introspective searching. Hence, it is an example of \u201cfaction\u201d. The Henry James of this novel is certainly very much a creation of the author and while much may well be revelatory\u2014it remains an imaginative excursion. To build this portrait of the author, T\u00f3ib\u00edn concent This is quite an intriguing novel\u2014it is based on a real character and T\u00f3ib\u00edn makes extensive use of the letters, works, and biographies of Henry James but fictionalises the writer\u2019s inner life, its motives, its guilt, its anguished introspective searching. Hence, it is an example of \u201cfaction\u201d. The Henry James of this novel is certainly very much a creation of the author and while much may well be revelatory\u2014it remains an imaginative excursion. To build this portrait of the author, T\u00f3ib\u00edn concentrates on the relations James had with three women: his sister, Alice, a cousin, Minny Temple, and the author Constance Fenimore Woolson. James has certain difficult relationships with these three though he admires and respects them. Yet these women provide a tremendous inspiration for his novels. He creates lives in alternate realities for them. He is able to configure his responses to these women only through the use of Art. Henry James becomes a Master of the novel but this is caused somehow by his failure as a person. This is pretty much how I see the novel. To what extent the book reflects the actual man is moot. But it is intriguing. Personally, the book prompted me to decide to sample the novels of Constance Fenimore Woolson. They are in the public domain and excellent free digital copies which include the original illustrations are available on Project Gutenberg. ...more This novel seeks to reveal the daily life and thoughts of American writer Henry James prior to his breakthrough novels, The Wings of Doves and The Golden Bowl. It exposes the world of privilege and conceit of European literati and artists and those who seek to be on intimate terms with such talent and hopeful success. One does not need to be a fan of Henry James or to even have read his work to enjoy this portrait- the novel is beautifully rendered, intense and fascinating. But it would be diffi This novel seeks to reveal the daily life and thoughts of American writer Henry James prior to his breakthrough novels, The Wings of Doves and The Golden Bowl. It exposes the world of privilege and conceit of European literati and artists and those who seek to be on intimate terms with such talent and hopeful success. One does not need to be a fan of Henry James or to even have read his work to enjoy this portrait- the novel is beautifully rendered, intense and fascinating. But it would be difficult to finish this and not turn to a James' novel to complete your own portrait of the author. I recommend Portrait of a Lady and The Wings of Doves. And Toibin proves to be a master of prose, as well. ...more", "Title": "The Master"},
