{"Comments": "Because,<---M> even after the first two volumes</---M>, every character will STILL surprise you. Because Glokta is the best fantasy character I've found since Tyrion Lannister.<---F> Because Logen is a mushroom-cloud-laying motherfucker</---F>. Because you should've seen it coming but you didn't. You really didn't. Because even \"gritty\" fantasy writers are usually afraid to go this far against expectations. Because you will laugh. You will get angry. Because you will hate the ending. Because the ending is perfect. Becaus Because, even after the first two volumes, every character will STILL surprise you. Because Glokta is the best fantasy character I've found since Tyrion Lannister. Because Logen is a mushroom-cloud-laying motherfucker. Because you should've seen it coming but you didn't. You really didn't. Because even \"gritty\" fantasy writers are usually afraid to go this far against expectations. Because you will laugh. You will get angry. Because you will hate the ending. Because the ending is perfect. Because the last surprise is on the last page. Because every combat sequence is spot on. Because every character's actions are spot on. (Despite the fact that we sometimes don't need quite as much explanation as we get.) Because we need more fantasy authors willing to give people like Terry Brooks, Margaret Weiss, Tracy Hickman and Robert Jordan a really good wedgie. (Giving dead people wedgies might be in bad taste, but it's occasionally necessary.) Because worlds with swords and sorcerers are boring when they're perfect. Because people are boring when they're perfect. Because perfect things are boring. Because this series is totally not boring. Because in some ways Abercrombie's series works better than A Song of Ice and Fire (in some ways, just some, not all of them, please put down those rocks). Because it's time to read something entirely made out of awesome. Because this is it. Because. Just because. ...more and so the excellent First Law trilogy concludes. this was a splendid experience and certainly a hearty one as well. many things to consider and many enjoyments to be had. a full meal! and quite a bitter feast at that. and here is the Last Argument of the title, succinctly delivered by the ferocious sorceror Bayaz: \"Power makes all things right. That is my first law, and my last. That is the only law that I acknowledge.\" SPOILERS FOLLOW this is a really marvelous series. bold in intent, clear in p and so the excellent First Law trilogy concludes. this was a splendid experience and certainly a hearty one as well. many things to consider and many enjoyments to be had. a full meal! and quite a bitter feast at that. and here is the Last Argument of the title, succinctly delivered by the ferocious sorceror Bayaz: \"Power makes all things right. That is my first law, and my last. That is the only law that I acknowledge.\" SPOILERS FOLLOW this is a really marvelous series. bold in intent, clear in purpose, both a strikingly rigorous critique of the systems of power and a fun, fast-paced adventure that turns expectations around narrative & characterization upside down. it is not perfect; the most egregious fault is a certain shallowness in the dialogue - many lines read as if they are coming from a particularly snarky tv sitcom. i do not like. but that fault, and other minor ones, pales in comparison to all the positives of the trilogy. the first book basically functions as a a prologue. indeed, in other books, the entirety of the action in that book would probably have been dispensed with in a chapter or two. but The Blade Itself sees the building of character and the constructing of a strong foundation for its overarching narrative as key to its design, and so The Blade Itself sticks in the memory as one of the most in-depth introductions to the action that i've experienced. a bold move; i like. the second book is where all the action is at. but man does Abercrombie fuck with reader expectations in Before They Are Hanged . there are two primary narrative threads in the second book: a Quest for a Band of Adventurers and the Defense of a City Under Siege. for such a contrastingly (to the first book) action-packed novel, the decisions of how to end these two adventures is rooted in the need to illustrate failure - so much so that the novel functions as a sardonic critique and attack on the use of Quests and City Sieges in fantasy. the Quest goes nowhere; nothing is gained and the whole thing is pointless. the Defense of a City fails; good people are slain, a city is taken, and then the 'hero' is rewarded for doing a good job in drawing out the Siege - his actual failure being preordained by his loathsome masters. truly a a kind of rough justice in terms of reader expectations for classic narrative pleasures; i like. Last Argument is likewise determined to smack the reader upside the head with their own complacent desires. this happens in two distinct ways: (1) showing the true darkness at the heart of its sometimes rather loveable characters and (2) giving the novel's various narrative threads some of the bitterest versions of happy endings that i've experienced. to the first goal, it is important to point out what Abercrombie did in the second book: he made his characters highly appealing. their courage & loyalty & cleverness are highlighted and they are given amusing character traits to make them charmingly down-to-earth. they grow and they do brave things and the novel shows that they can be better human beings, if given the opportunity. the third book is counting on the reader to remember those positive little bits - all the better to sting that reader when they are reminded of these characters' true natures. the only person who escapes unscathed is the most unloveable character of all - the savage and bloodthirsty Ferro, who is my own favorite character. other characters do not make it out with their loveability intact. Logan the berserker barbarian's stomach-turning past is actually explored (with an emphasis on his various mindless atrocities) and, most importantly, we are given a scene where we witness Logan's terrifying alter ego do truly horrible things. my God, he cuts a child in half! he becomes distinctly un-loveable after that little bit. and the same goes for the rest: anti-heroes who Abercrombie set up to be surprisingly sympathetic are given their chance... not to shine, but to molder. Glokta tortures innocent people that he knows are innocent, simply because he is following orders. Jezal overindulges his tendency towards frustrating ditheriness. Ardee becomes a self-pitying, self-loathing lush. Black Dow, Frost, and Severard betray those who have given them trust. Quai is shown to be a foul imposter. and most stark at all, Bayaz the Eccentric Magician is shown to have the true colors of a classic megalomaniac, uncaring of who he hurts & kills, primarily interested in maintaining his authority, a liar and a bully and a murderer, contemptuous of all who do not share his goals, and willing to do literally anything to further those goals and gain more power. Bayaz the Eccentric Magician - the only character who seeks to truly protect a kingdom against the powers of darkness - turns out to be the darkest monster of them all. i like. to the second goal... well, i don't want to do what i did above, and list the viciously ironic happy endings delivered on all the remaining characters. one example will suffice: a Happy Marriage for a king and his new bride. a happy ending where a lesbian is forced to pretend to be deliriously happy to bed her man night after night - or else her lover, a stalwart lady-in-waiting, will be tortured and killed. a happy ending where the naive new king is so pleased with his wife's change of heart that he never questions how that radical change of heart occurred. he finds her crying at the window each night after a session of lovemaking... well, it must be because she is homesick! the cumulative effect of all of Abercrombie's bleakly sardonic decisions is one that gave me a hollow, depressed feeling. and yet i was thoroughly engaged and challenged by each of his decisions. i felt attacked; i felt like the rug was pulled out from under me; i felt as if all that i held to be important and meaningful were simply false constructs based on lazy thinking and a complacency with what i have automatically considered as \"good\", as \"right\". being challenged like that is a rare thing. i like. ...more ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . Say one thing for this reviewer, say she's a weak-minded sucker. She really enjoyed the first two books of <---A>Joe Abercrombie</---A>'s The First Law trilogy. This story was original, had a unique style, fascinating characters, and a darkly cynical style. She liked it. It was fresh. But she was kind of hoping, even daring to expect, that the last book, <+++>Last Argument of Kings</+++>, might have an ending that was, if not perhaps exactly happy, at least somewhat satisfying. Unf ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . Say one thing for this reviewer, say she's a weak-minded sucker. She really enjoyed the first two books of Joe Abercrombie's The First Law trilogy. This story was original, had a unique style, fascinating characters, and a darkly cynical style. She liked it. It was fresh. But she was kind of hoping, even daring to expect, that the last book, <+++>Last Argument of Kings</+++>, might have an ending that was, if not perhaps exactly happy, at least somewhat satisfying. Unfortunately, Last Argument of Kings was more realistic than happy. Hooray, some might say -- a realistic ending! But realistic is not what this reader reads fantasy for. For three books she read about people's heads being chopped off, painful body parts clicking, toothless gums being sucked at, pain, wasting disease, bodies being cleaved in half, more pain, betrayal, torture, treason, tyranny, loveless marriages, abusive fathers and brothers, miscarriage, alcoholism, prejudice, more pain. Lots of pain. It has to get better, right? Alas, no. There just wasn't enough redemption to balance all of the pain. A couple of characters became more noble (they couldn't have become less so), but their triumphs were outweighed by the degradation of other characters. It was all just kind of depressing. Besides that, there really wasn't anything new in Last Argument of Kings. The story ends (for better or for worse), but there was none of the freshness that was so exciting in The Blade Itself. The writing is well above average, but not brilliant, and it certainly wasn't pretty. What she's trying to say is: The First Law is an entertaining and well-written story for someone who is more the cynic than the optimist. But it left this reviewer feeling icky. Very icky. Read more Joe Abercrombie book reviews at Fantasy Literature . ...more \"Say one thing for Last Argument of Kings, say it's dark fantasy at its best\" Logen's father said. After finishing the book and the trilogy, I decided to give this book a rating of 5 stars. Why? well, as <---C>Logen Ninefingers</---C> always said \"you have to be realistic about these things.\" Last Argument of Kings is the conclusion to the First Law Trilogy and it completely delivered on all aspect of great quality dark fantasy. It provides a fitting ending to the trilogy, it's dark, funny, bloody, oh yes it' \"Say one thing for Last Argument of Kings, say it's dark fantasy at its best\" Logen's father said. After finishing the book and the trilogy, I decided to give this book a rating of 5 stars. Why? well, as Logen Ninefingers always said \"you have to be realistic about these things.\" Last Argument of Kings is the conclusion to the First Law Trilogy and it completely delivered on all aspect of great quality dark fantasy. It provides a fitting ending to the trilogy, it's dark, funny, bloody, oh yes it's really bloody, intense and packed with fast paced actions. Out of 670 pages around 300 pages are filled with war, death, and Abercrombie wrote it in a way that we, the reader feels we are truly in the middle of all the chaos and mayhem with all the characters. Actions scenes, torture scenes are all vivid although sometimes there is way too much details into some unnecessary stuff imo. However, it doesn't change the fact that Abercrombie really pay attention to details and gave one heck of a fine trilogy into the literature world. Joe Abercrombie will now be included into one my favorite author lists along with Brandon Sanderson, and at the same time along with Mistborn trilogy, these trilogy are going to my favorite shelves. Any fans of dark fantasy and Song of Ice & Fire series will definitely have a blast with this series like I am. Thank you for reading my reviews and thoughts on this book! Side note: -Obviously this book is not for kids, \"you have to be realistic about this\" unless you want your kids to be a torturer or some kid who goes rampage on their lego and screamed he is the Bloody-Nine. -The Bloody-Nine is probably one of the most badass characters I've ever had the chance to encounter in fiction worlds. (Not literally of course, otherwise.. you know, I'll be dead.) -\"If you think this has a happy ending, you haven\u2019t been paying attention.\u201d - Ramsay Bolton ...more As the Gurkish march on Adua, Bayaz schemes to defeat them, Jezel discovers his secret parentage, and Glokta tries to learn things no one wants him to know. Meanwhile, the Northmen are holed up in a fortress in the hills with Bethod's army at their gate, waiting for the Union army to arrive. Will they arrive in time? Is even Bayaz enough to defeat the Gurkish? Apart from my Dark Tower reread of 2011, It's been a long time since I read the final book in a fantasy series. I guess re-reading the Elr As the Gurkish march on Adua, Bayaz schemes to defeat them, Jezel discovers his secret parentage, and Glokta tries to learn things no one wants him to know. Meanwhile, the Northmen are holed up in a fortress in the hills with Bethod's army at their gate, waiting for the Union army to arrive. Will they arrive in time? Is even Bayaz enough to defeat the Gurkish? Apart from my Dark Tower reread of 2011, It's been a long time since I read the final book in a fantasy series. I guess re-reading the Elric books was the last time and probably Amber before that. The Last Argument of Kings, final book in the First Law trilogy, is way up in the series ender hierarchy. The manure hits the windmill in a serious fashion in this volume. Several pretty important characters die. The rest of them have their lives change in real ways. Who would have Jezel dan Luthar and Logen Ninefingers would wind up kings? Or what would happen after they did? Glokta and Bayaz were by far the most captivating characters in this volume. Glokta shocked me time and time again and I'm still not sure if Bayaz slew his mentor or not, only that he has his fingers in most of the pies in the bakery. All the revelations toward the end blew my mind. There are so many things I want to gush about in this volume, like Bayaz using the Seed against the Eaters, Glokta marrying Ardee West, and the fight between The Bloody Nine and the Feared. I knew the confrontation was coming as soon as the Feared was introduced and I was pretty sure of his weakness. I just didn't picture the battle to be so brutal. The character development over the course of the three books was pretty damn amazing considering where Jezel, Logen, and the rest started. The ending was the icing on the cake. Like I said in my reviews of the other books, people compare these books to George R.R. Martin but they aren't that similar other than the brutal deaths. The First Law is way more like Pratchett. This particular volume reminds me of Watchmen quite bit when the heroes find out just how thoroughly they've been jerked around. Five blood drenched stars. That's all I have to say. ...more The last book in Abercrombie\u2019s dark fantasy trilogy. Done. Dusted. It\u2019s going to be a while before I\u2019ve properly assimilated everything that happened over the course of the series. It\u2019s quite something, and it\u2019s well worth your time if you enjoy genre fiction. Last Argument of Kings \u2013 thoughts Strange and painful events seemed to follow in his wake like stray dogs barking behind the butcher\u2019s wagon. Like I mentioned in one of my earlier reviews, it isn\u2019t clear whether this wants to be (dark) heroic The last book in Abercrombie\u2019s dark fantasy trilogy. Done. Dusted. It\u2019s going to be a while before I\u2019ve properly assimilated everything that happened over the course of the series. It\u2019s quite something, and it\u2019s well worth your time if you enjoy genre fiction. Last Argument of Kings \u2013 thoughts Strange and painful events seemed to follow in his wake like stray dogs barking behind the butcher\u2019s wagon. Like I mentioned in one of my earlier reviews, it isn\u2019t clear whether this wants to be (dark) heroic or (dark) high fantasy. It does contain elements of both; It\u2019s very, very violent and bloody at times, but it also has moments of hush and awe. As expected, the action sequences are spectacularly impressive, especially any featuring Logen Ninefingers, or more particularly, The Bloody Nine. [He] stood still and caught his breath, the sword hanging down by his side, the grip cold and wet in his clenched fist. He\u2019d never been much of a one for moving until it was time. \u201cBest tell me your name, while you still got breath in you. I like to know who I\u2019ve killed.\u201d I\u2019d be hard pressed to select just one word to describe Abercrombie\u2019s writing, but something that did spring to mind was \u201c immediate \u201d. There is an intimacy and urgency to the prose that pulls the reader in, kicking and screaming, for better or worse, until everything is played out. At almost 700 pages in pretty small print this is no light read, and yet it\u2019s over before you know it. The characterisation in this story and in this entry in particular, is extraordinary beyond my ability to describe. The POV characters are fairly ambiguous for the most part and you\u2019re never quite sure just who is going to carry the day as the biggest bastard, or beloved, of the series. I think, though, that I\u2019m not alone in being partial to master Ninefingers, who is easily one of the most bad-ass and provocative anti-heroes to grace (if you could call it that) the pages of a book. It meant nothing to [the Bloody Nine] who men were, or what they had done. He was the Great Leveller, and all men were equal before him. His only care was to turn the living into the dead, and it was past time for the good work to begin. A word of honour has to go to Inquisitor Glokta, whose inner musings are a delight and whose story is rife with intrigue and delivers the most surprises. It always amazes me, how swiftly problems can be solved, once you start cutting things off people. As with the previous books, there is a lot going on, mostly concerned with warfare. Siege, battle, bloodbath, siege: wash, rinse, repeat. Despite that, it remains a fascinating story that manages not to be overshadowed by the mayhem. The (extended) ending is likely the portion that readers will quibble over the most, but it\u2019s a fantastic achievement all in all. Great stuff all round. Addendum: In a recent review of a different book I made a comment regarding the use of (crude) expletives during certain, um, scenes of intimacy. The same thing happens here, but it didn\u2019t seem so out of place at all. This either makes me the biggest hypocrite in the universe, or this is just that good a book. You have to be realistic about these things. ...more Okay, so here's the thing with this book and why I gave it no stars: 1) It's the third and final volume in a trilogy that up to this book was pretty much as good as fantasy gets: good characterizations, egaging plot, nice overall writing style, etc etc etc. 1a) I specifically liked the first two because they were surprisingly nasty, not dark mind you (no brooding emo heroes of the night), nasty . 1b) \"Nasty\" isn't meant sexually either, incidentally, in case you were flashing to Janet Jackson right Okay, so here's the thing with this book and why I gave it no stars: 1) It's the third and final volume in a trilogy that up to this book was pretty much as good as fantasy gets: good characterizations, egaging plot, nice overall writing style, etc etc etc. 1a) I specifically liked the first two because they were surprisingly nasty, not dark mind you (no brooding emo heroes of the night), nasty . 1b) \"Nasty\" isn't meant sexually either, incidentally, in case you were flashing to Janet Jackson right then. 2) All of that remains true for this book. I think it's important to know that no actions or events in this book are implausible given what's happened before or are unbelievable to the characters as written to this point. SPOILER-ISH 3) Man, everything goes to shit and everyone dies or is fucking miserable forever is what happens here in book three. 4) And that turns out to be the point of it all, the philosophy the series intends to convey: That everyone is a total shit and you will die and death will be awful and degrading, but that's what life's like anyway so who cares. 4a) I think it's because that's the IT of the series that I found the book so dispiriting and also retroactively ruinous of the first two, which I no longer particularly like knowing what they'd lead to. 4b) Which makes me worry a little that I've turned into Pollyanna No-Unhappy-Endings let's have some cookies and hugs. 4b -i) Or even worse, someone who requires moral edification in entertainment. 5) I am going to resist those ideas about myself, even as I struggle to figure out why this is so repugnant to me, why I feel so.. almost offended by this book. I guess because this ending seems as trite as one where everyone wins and has cookies and hugs, only looking for some deeper credibility by instead of cookies it's slavery instead of hugs it's sharp pointy sticks being jabbed in various orifices. It ends up not TRYING to say anything more then the easiest black or white thing it could say, and it's even worse when you have this feeling the author COULD HAVE DONE BETTER. ...more \u201cMercy and weakness are the same thing in war, and there's no prize for nice behavior.\u201d When your two favorite characters in a book are a master torturer and a warrior who occasionally is filled with so much bloodlust that he forgets who he is and is as likely to kill a friend as much as a foe you really shouldn\u2019t be surprised to have mixed feelings at the end of the series. But I was surprised . Maybe I\u2019m too used to the series I\u2019m reading ending by tying everything up neatly in a bow and giving \u201cMercy and weakness are the same thing in war, and there's no prize for nice behavior.\u201d When your two favorite characters in a book are a master torturer and a warrior who occasionally is filled with so much bloodlust that he forgets who he is and is as likely to kill a friend as much as a foe you really shouldn\u2019t be surprised to have mixed feelings at the end of the series. But I was surprised . Maybe I\u2019m too used to the series I\u2019m reading ending by tying everything up neatly in a bow and giving out an appropriate number of Happily Ever Afters. I can\u2019t really say that happened. There are some people who got what they deserved, others who got far more than they deserved and even more who did not get what they deserved at all. At the end I wasn\u2019t sure how to feel. This is one of those stories that is going to stick with me and I\u2019ll wonder what the characters went on to do long after the story ended. I\u2019m going to give Joe Abercrombie some props. He made me love characters that I shouldn\u2019t have liked at all. I mean who loves the torturer in a story, but Glotka is one of my all-time favorite Anti-Heroes. I also adore Logan who sometimes goes on killing sprees and might kill his most trusted ally, still Logen Nine-fingers really made this story for me. Say one thing for Joe Abercrombie, say he is never boring. I flew through the last half of this book needing to know what was going to happen. I was surprised by revelations that just kept coming. There was one character that I absolutely loved in prior books that I couldn\u2019t believe how much I despised them by the end of this one. \u201cBut you love to play the good man, don't you? Do you know what's worse than a villain? A villain who thinks he's a hero. A man like that, there's nothing he won't do, and he'll always find himself an excuse.\u201d I really do not want to give away anything about this story. I just ask that you go in with an open mind and be ready for a very wild and unconventional and always entertaining ride. The ending to this trilogy is much like Abercrombie\u2019s characters; complex, interesting, controversial and perfectly unapologetically flawed. Maybe that doesn\u2019t sound like a good thing but looking back on it now a week after I finished I really liked some of the chances he took with his story. I really hope he revisits a few of these characters since he left it a little open for some of them in the future. I grew really attached to so many of the characters in the story and I really want to see them again. ...more 4.5 stars Last argument of kings is an appropriately epic, dark and brilliant ending to a trilogy filled with great characters and a beautifully crafted, intricate plot. It provides a definite(if somewhat disappointing) ending to the trilogy that still leaves space for the characters and story to be further explored in the following standalone novels. SPOILERS Jezal's character development was easily the best written in this series and among the best I've seen in any fantasy. From his introduction 4.5 stars Last argument of kings is an appropriately epic, dark and brilliant ending to a trilogy filled with great characters and a beautifully crafted, intricate plot. It provides a definite(if somewhat disappointing) ending to the trilogy that still leaves space for the characters and story to be further explored in the following standalone novels. SPOILERS Jezal's character development was easily the best written in this series and among the best I've seen in any fantasy. From his introduction as an arrogant, lazy nobleman in the first book I expected him to develop into a wiser, kinder and generally better guy. However this development, although predictable, is still handled brilliantly here. Returning to the city of Adua, Jezal has decided to forget ambition and instead has decided to spend his life with the woman he loves... but he quickly backslides on this romantic plan when offered a promotion. Reverse character development is something I've rarely seen in fantasy and is cleverly written here. Meanwhile in the North the truth about Logen's violent past is revealed. I always considered Logen's vaguely bloody past to be exaggerated, however in this novel we truly see 'The Bloody Nine' and his indiscriminate savagery reveals a different side to the tough, dependable man he is so desperately trying to be. One scene in particular in which he murders a beloved character demonstrates the senseless violence of his bloodrage, which had been hinted at with Ferro in earlier books. As he gradually returns to his old ways, we come to see why he was so hated, and so feared. Despite the love a lot of people seem to have for him I've never really bought into Glokta. He's always seemed an imitation of Tyrion Lannister to me. A cynical, witty, shrewd political operator who is an outsider in society due to a physical deformity. (And who in the second book in the series commands the defence of a besieged city, I mean come on Abercrombie). I did feel for Glokta however when he was simultaneously betrayed by his two most trusted henchman. On the other hand his interactions with Ardee added hopefulness and sympathy to what was otherwise an often bleak character arc. Also lols. Lots of lols. Their relationship results in 2 of my all-time favourite Glokta scenes. The scene in which he visits her house after being ordered to assassinate her was initially tense (made all the more so by Abercrombie's willingness to have his protagonists do terrible things) and then heartwarming. The second was the scene in which he threatens to go all medieval on the ass (in so many words) of an extremely powerful politician if that politician threatens 'his' wife and child. Tears. So. The ending. I was disappointed by the ending, not throw my book off the wall disappointed but still. I've given the book 4.5 stars because my problems with the ending were due to the tone and the treatment of 2 of my favourite characters more than any real plot hole or pacing error and because other than the last few pages the book is almost flawless. Jezal ends the book not only alive but as king of the union. Yet he is only the powerless pawn of the ruthless megalomaniac Bayaz and trapped in a loveless marriage to boot. Due to her treatment of Jezal I initially felt that the 'jewel of Talins' was a ridiculously 2-dimensional character created to absolve Jezal of all blame in his loveless marriage. However at the end it is revealed that she is a lesbian...completely justifying her coldness, spitefulness, random petty cruelty and her bitter desire to see the entire population of Adua murdered for her own convenience. Those lesbians right? Smashes face off keyboard* Possibly my most disappointing moment in the book was when Jezal, who had only a few pages earlier been willing to make a heroic, self-sacrificing last stand against an unstoppable, murderous 'eater', completely capitulates to Bayaz allowing himself to become a meaningless figurehead for the nation. For me that scene and it's results rendered Jezal's entire character development throughout the series completely meaningless. I know I just praised Abercrombie for his 'reverse character development' (patent pending) but that was just too much. Major Wests' death was another crushing disappointment. One of my favourite characters throughout the series, West was the only major character who died and he did so in a completely meaningless, off-hand way after the climactic battle was already concluded. I feel that his death was greatly different to GRRM-style meaningful main character removal that adds realism and suspense as well as affecting the plot in unexpected ways. The pointless death of a great character didn't seem to affect the plot in any meaningful way and we see only second hand accounts of his failing health without any poignant final POV as death approaches. At least Logen Nine Fingers ended the story in an appropriate way. For a while I was worried he would end the series as a peaceful king leading the north to a bright future, which as much as I liked him, would have been completely at odds with his character and the theme throughout his story arc of having to pay for the sins of the past. I was mildly disappointed that his ability to talk to spirits was forgotten in this book, especially as I had hoped it would be linked into the seeming superpowers he has while(whilst?) in berserker mode. Nevertheless his violent, mysterious (at least until Red Country)end was well written and suited his character perfectly. Despite my personal complaints about the ending I still felt this was an epic, complex and fitting final installment to a great series. ...more Disappointing. This book probably deserves better than two stars, but I just can't bring myself to call it good, because I didn't really enjoy it even though I read it fairly quickly. Don't get me wrong: it's interesting enough, and the characters are still vaguely engaging, and there's plenty of action. By all means, the formula is there (even though it does feel a little bit tired). So what's the problem? I guess I was just hoping Abercrombie would be able to salvage some of his characters and Disappointing. This book probably deserves better than two stars, but I just can't bring myself to call it good, because I didn't really enjoy it even though I read it fairly quickly. Don't get me wrong: it's interesting enough, and the characters are still vaguely engaging, and there's plenty of action. By all means, the formula is there (even though it does feel a little bit tired). So what's the problem? I guess I was just hoping Abercrombie would be able to salvage some of his characters and bring the story to a satisfying conclusion, but frustratingly, most of the characters end up less likeable at the end than they were at the beginning, and the book's \"conclusion\" feels loose and sloppy. I'm okay with a \"no good and no evil\" sort of world, with ambiguous heroes, but for crying out loud, Abercrombie can't seem to come up with a sympathetic character, or any sort of heroic progression. His characters are in turn spineless, self-centered, vengeful, ruthless, feckless, and amazingly passive. Unlikeable in the extreme. Logen seems to be a completely different character from one book to the next, Ferro is static, Glokta becomes boring (can he stop tonguing his gums for a page or two, please?), and Jezal crumples into a worthless sack of dookie. By the end of the book, there was not a single character I was rooting for, and I really didn't care whether they lived or died. In fact, I was kind of hoping they would die, since then there wouldn\u2019t be any sequels. Whatever happened to characters like Elric of Melnibone, Raven of the Black Company, Caine, Tyrion Lannister, Riddick, et al? The humor seems to have disappeared by the third book, as well. This is too bad, since humor actually makes the characters a lot more sympathetic. There is also some odd plotting. The logic of Bayaz is baffling: why exactly is he spending so much effort to build an empire when he could have accomplished his goals with a lot less hassle (he is, after all, incredibly rich and powerful and all that). And why does he show so little interest in \"his\" empire? Not even a hint of pride? What\u2019s the point? In the end, that\u2019s what I came to. What exactly was the point of the story? Oh well. Maybe I\u2019ll pick up another book by Abercrombie someday, but not any time soon. ...more \"Book 3, the final one! We're almost there!\" \"Yes, Sir, Mr.Abercrombie.\" \"So, let's see. We casted characters already and invented plots. What needs to be done now.\" \"Perhaps an ending?\" \"Really? Aren't you enjoying my fabulous characters?\" \"Of course, but you know, a good story needs an ending.\" \"Did Robert Jordan knew that? Does Martin think so?\" \"Well, I'm not sure...\" \"And they sold way more books than I did.\" \"Hm, this is true. But weren't you going somewhere with the story?\" \"You're right, but maybe \"Book 3, the final one! We're almost there!\" \"Yes, Sir, Mr.Abercrombie.\" \"So, let's see. We casted characters already and invented plots. What needs to be done now.\" \"Perhaps an ending?\" \"Really? Aren't you enjoying my fabulous characters?\" \"Of course, but you know, a good story needs an ending.\" \"Did Robert Jordan knew that? Does Martin think so?\" \"Well, I'm not sure...\" \"And they sold way more books than I did.\" \"Hm, this is true. But weren't you going somewhere with the story?\" \"You're right, but maybe that's not the point of a story.\" \"Really? I'm confused.\" \"There is a lot of rothfuss lately on the internet about stories within stories about storytelling without telling a story.\" \"And people like that?\" \"Apparently a huge kvothient of the peer group does. Maybe I should write something like that.\" \"A little late for that now, ain't it, boos? \"Well, what else is successful?\" \"Star Wars, boss.\" \"That's an idea, finishing a trilogy and then living on it, creating tons of follow-up stuff and Merchandising. Maybe we even get Natalie Portman to play a role in a crappy prequel.\" \"Natalie Portman is mentioned quite often in book reviews lately, isn't she, boos?\" \"Makes you suspicious, doesn't it?\" \"So, we're still in need of an ending. Was way easier with the brginning.\" \"That's it!\" \"What's it, Sir, Mr. Abercrombie?\" \"We don't need an ending, we need a beginning.\" And thus the third book in Abercrombie's First Law trilogy ends with an epilogue chapter called \"The beginning\". This book lived up to its predecessors from end to beginning and has a few surprises for the reader. As always, the characters are well executed and outshine the other elements of Abercrombie's writing. So, if you're a reader for whom characters are the most important part of a book, you can easily add a 5th star to the rating. All in all the series is a fun ride that cleverly plays with a lot of fantasy tropes and likes to turn them on their heads. If I wanted to be really picky, I could tell you that the world-building lacked a bit for my taste and that I personally had preferred it to have a few better developed antagonists from the Ghurkish side, but that's not really what the book wants to be good at. So, I would highly recommend it to everyone, who's not afraid of a bleak world and cruel events. I'm definately delving back into the First Law universe with the three standalones, but most likely not right away. \"Mr. Abercrombie, sir?\" \"Yes?\" \"About these Northmen...\" \"What about them?\" \"There's more of them now. Here's a little girl with a huge hammer...\" \"Well...I'll think of something.\" ...more 8.5/10 Reading other peoples reviews of this book makes me feel like a sourpuss only going for the 4 star rating. I fully enjoyed reading people\u2019s reviews and bringing back the memories of those who I have since said my farewells to and glad to see that so many people differ on certain things such as favourite characters, whether they enjoyed the ending overall and if this is one of the better fantasy series to come onto the scene in recent years. As a trilogy I can\u2019t fault this series, the writi 8.5/10 Reading other peoples reviews of this book makes me feel like a sourpuss only going for the 4 star rating. I fully enjoyed reading people\u2019s reviews and bringing back the memories of those who I have since said my farewells to and glad to see that so many people differ on certain things such as favourite characters, whether they enjoyed the ending overall and if this is one of the better fantasy series to come onto the scene in recent years. As a trilogy I can\u2019t fault this series, the writing is probably up there with the best I\u2019ve read in the fantasy genre (if not all genres) with some truly descriptive characters and settings and some really graphic fights added in too. Glotka is probably one of the best characters in fiction and really came back into the forefront of entertainment for me. But he\u2019s not alone and others such as Logan, Jezal, Bayaz and West could have a massive essay written on how good they are with all their character flaws and interactions with each other and consequences on each other and the world. I won\u2019t gush too much here though as I won\u2019t do this justice, I will only say that the characters have very much developed from the beginning of this series to where things left off and a very satisfying way. The reason for not giving it the elusive 5 *s? It didn\u2019t grip me as much as the second novel (also I think this is a first ever for me where the middle book in a trilogy turns out to be my favourite and I think I might be alone there looking at people\u2019s opinions on this one) and there was a bit too much plodding in parts like at the very end after a hectic 150 pages beforehand. The epilogue was really well done though and linked nicely back to the very start of the series. Whilst not my favourite in the series it was a great way to tie things off. It was a 700 page novel that took me a little over a week to read so that surely says something. I would push this series on any who were teetering whether to read these or not. There is no way that I won\u2019t read this series again in the future when the memories start to fade. Before then though I have the stand alone novels and also the new YA series of his. Good times with all that to go at! If you like this try: \u201cAssassins Apprentice\u201d by Robin Hobb ...more This is the conclusion of a grimdark fantasy trilogy. At this point practically everything I can say about the plot will be full of spoilers, so the most generic description will have to do. A war is raging in the north between Union and united barbarians. Another war is about to start in the south: people led by powerful and practically indestructible flesh-eaters quietly prepare to conquer Union - unless the northern barbarians do it first. Everything seems to be lost, but some powerful people This is the conclusion of a grimdark fantasy trilogy. At this point practically everything I can say about the plot will be full of spoilers, so the most generic description will have to do. A war is raging in the north between Union and united barbarians. Another war is about to start in the south: people led by powerful and practically indestructible flesh-eaters quietly prepare to conquer Union - unless the northern barbarians do it first. Everything seems to be lost, but some powerful people still have some cards to play (very weak ones I might add). This is the book to which I can finally give 5 stars without any doubt. The writing quality is still top-notch, the characters remain interesting and some of the weak ones from previous books finally developed into real 3-dimensional ones. There were enough plot twists in the book to keep me interested in reading throughout the whole book and I did not see quite a few of them coming. The power play behind the scene is revealed at last with some very much unexpected shadow puppet musters. Speaking about the whole trilogy: is it worth reading? The answer is definite yes with some minor reservations. This is a grimdark fantasy, have no doubts about it. For the most part it successfully avoids being too bloody and macabre, but do not expect it to be shiny happy read: it is not. There are plenty of gruesome moments in there: consider the fact that one of the main characters is an Inquisitor whose job is exactly what you would expect from one and who happens to be very efficient at what he does - it is impossible to avoid very dark moments. The first book really takes its time to set up the board and the game pieces - while it is not boring at all, much more excitement starts from the second one onward. You will also get much better understanding of the whole picture after the first book. My final recommendation: definitely read the trilogy, but beware of its dark nature; if dark fantasy is not what you like, avoid it even if this is one of the best examples of this particular sub-genre. The writing quality is excellent, the characters and their development are very good, and some of one-liners are outstanding. This review is a copy/paste of my BookLikes one: http://gene.booklikes.com/post/881396... ...more Wow. Just finished, and that was a book that was just... wow. Made expectations, fulfilled them, broke them apart into little pieces and reassembled into a huge jagged collage of a work. Amazing. Glokta continues to be the character you would love to hate, except that he is the very essence of tortured humanity. Jezal grows beyond a self-involved ego into a man willing to stand for his beliefs--except that he remains manipulated and somewhat ignorant of the extent to which he is played. Logen un Wow. Just finished, and that was a book that was just... wow. Made expectations, fulfilled them, broke them apart into little pieces and reassembled into a huge jagged collage of a work. Amazing. Glokta continues to be the character you would love to hate, except that he is the very essence of tortured humanity. Jezal grows beyond a self-involved ego into a man willing to stand for his beliefs--except that he remains manipulated and somewhat ignorant of the extent to which he is played. Logen unfortunately sees too many more appearances of The Bloody Nine, and it costs him almost everything even as he wins. Commander West continues to lead with loyalty and strategy. Everyone is so humanly flawed, admirable in their nobility and despicable in their actions at times. Truly an impressive but uncomfortable work. The dark side of fantasy, not because it delves into Evil with the capital \"E,\" but because it shows how choices and character continue to drive us, perhaps causing us to make the very same mistakes, or the choices we make when we have no choice at all. Even the most unsympathetic of characters have their moments. (view spoiler) [ The final scene between West and Glokta is tear-worthy. And it leaves us with the question, is Bayaz, the First of the Magi, any better than Mamun? (hide spoiler) ] ...more While reading the final hundred pages of this book, there is one quote that came to mind: \u201cAll this has happened before, and all this will happen again.\u201d It\u2019s from my favourite tv-series Battlestar Galactica but it could be a tagline on these series as well. I have to admit after book 1 and 2 I thought that these trilogy was really good, but I didn\u2019t fully understand the utter brilliance it supposedly had. Now after book 3, I get it. This last book is the culmination of so many things and shows While reading the final hundred pages of this book, there is one quote that came to mind: \u201cAll this has happened before, and all this will happen again.\u201d It\u2019s from my favourite tv-series Battlestar Galactica but it could be a tagline on these series as well. I have to admit after book 1 and 2 I thought that these trilogy was really good, but I didn\u2019t fully understand the utter brilliance it supposedly had. Now after book 3, I get it. This last book is the culmination of so many things and shows some utter brilliance indeed. One of the things that makes this book so brilliant: Abercrombie gives you a few jaw-dropping electroshocks along the way: (view spoiler) [Jezal king? Quai actually being Tolomei? The bloody nine killing Tul? (hide spoiler) ] which distracts from the real nuclear bomb that has been dropped at the start and is slowly building to general destruction of everything you thought you knew. Of everything that was so carefully constructed in Book 1 when Abercrombie really took his time to build solid foundations for all his characters. (view spoiler) [ Tolkien learnt us to trust the grumpy old wise wizard that lives in seclusion most of the time, but comes out of hiding and heads to court when things get tough. Bayaz seemed to fit that profile, he even got himself a fellowship of his own, but it becomes clear that he is in fact a huge manipulator, power-hungry and he does not care about the consequences of his actions. This book is so complex, so intriguing, so fabulously constructed. At the end you really start wondering whether you have been cheering for the \u2018bad side\u2019 all along. The cost of winning is just too high. Listening to Bayaz stories all of it did happen before, he constructed this world, he casted the characters, he wrote the script and he has been recycling that script for a few decades already. \u201cAll this has happened before, and all this will happen again\u201d The book even ends how it began. With Logen jumping/falling off a cliff. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Say one thing for Joe Abercrombie, say he writes like a motherfucker. I've been recommending this series to all of my fantasy-reading friends, most especially those all into the George R.R. Martin type of gritty-ass fantasy. See, I did it myself. I hate it when Abercrombie gets compared to GRRM. But how do you avoid it? So I word it thus: in the world of dark, realistic fantasy, Martin is Hitchcock and Abercrombie is Peckinpah. That's the only way I can make that comparison and sleep at night. Plu Say one thing for Joe Abercrombie, say he writes like a motherfucker. I've been recommending this series to all of my fantasy-reading friends, most especially those all into the George R.R. Martin type of gritty-ass fantasy. See, I did it myself. I hate it when Abercrombie gets compared to GRRM. But how do you avoid it? So I word it thus: in the world of dark, realistic fantasy, Martin is Hitchcock and Abercrombie is Peckinpah. That's the only way I can make that comparison and sleep at night. Plus, it makes me seem SUPER douchey and elitist, just the way I like it. So, hey, I'm reviewing a book. Sorry, forgot. While there were no not-awesome books in this series, this one came the closest for me to almost being 'meh.' But that was just in the first, ummmm, I dunno, one-seventh. It was all political maneuvering and intrigue. I'm not opposed to that, but I've tasted the sweetness of Abercrombie action scenes, and it's hard to go back. The characters that you love and hate go unexpected places in this book. Not out-of-character unexpected, just \"wow, I did not see that fucking coming\" unexpected. And the ending, oh man, that ending. No tying up shit into a nice little bow. I applaud him for his bravery and skill in crafting an ending that is simultaneously epic, comprehensive, and ambiguous. I don't think I'll ever read a fantasy series that's as good as this one. It's all downhill from here. You have to be realistic about these things. ...more Just finished The Last Argument of Kings... Mixed feelings. Definitely it is not worth re-reading, otherwise it would be like Logen, pissing into the wind. Real life is depressing enough, why make it worse? I didn't expect a happy ending, but everything, absolutely everything to be bad? While you have to be realistic is a good motto, the ending is not realistic because life is shit and people do not change is overplayed. The Blade Itself starts with a chapter 1 - End, and The Last Argument of Kings Just finished The Last Argument of Kings... Mixed feelings. Definitely it is not worth re-reading, otherwise it would be like Logen, pissing into the wind. Real life is depressing enough, why make it worse? I didn't expect a happy ending, but everything, absolutely everything to be bad? While you have to be realistic is a good motto, the ending is not realistic because life is shit and people do not change is overplayed. The Blade Itself starts with a chapter 1 - End, and The Last Argument of Kings ends with the last chapter - Beginning. It explains a lot. In the beginning the main characters were in shi*t, and in the end they wandered into the same sh%t. Nothing really has changed. Protagonists didn't really develop, change, improve. The whole trilogy's goal was to hammer home a point: 'Our minds never change!' 'You never change' 'Nothing has changed. I still need vengeance.' 'A man can change,' whispered Logen...yet he stood alone... I believe the story is not finished. I am sure, there will be at least one more trilogy. I know, I will give it a try. But if it ends up like this one, it will be the last for me. I am unsure between rating it 6 or 8 out of 10. ...more \"Delightfully twisted, and evil.\" The excerpt from The Guardian tells everything you need to know about Joe Abercrombie . He writes twisted fantasy where the characters are as wicked and dark as the plot twists and morale is not a relevant consideration for any decision. And he writes it well. In short time he has become one of the leading names of the genre, mainly thanks to the First Law trilogy that concludes in the Last Argument of the Kings . And after finally completing the trilogy, I can't h \"Delightfully twisted, and evil.\" The excerpt from The Guardian tells everything you need to know about Joe Abercrombie . He writes twisted fantasy where the characters are as wicked and dark as the plot twists and morale is not a relevant consideration for any decision. And he writes it well. In short time he has become one of the leading names of the genre, mainly thanks to the First Law trilogy that concludes in the Last Argument of the Kings . And after finally completing the trilogy, I can't help but coming to the conclusion that Abercrombie has nothing to offer to me. I freely admit that he writes very varied characters, who have believable flaws and internal struggles. His dialogue is great and each character has a distinct voice of his or her own. However, by the third book in the trilogy, the obsession of making everyone dark, troubled, twisted, and gritty starts to work against the story. The transition from one character to another no longer offers an interesting contrast, and the plot twists start to become very predictable. This is not shades of grey, this is just the black of a black-and-white world. And as a result, none of the characters really develop anywhere during the story, even though they all had enough inner demons to really do so. I was also very disappointed to see that my biggest worry after reading the first two books was very much realized: Abercrombie is all about his characters, and in the end he does not have a very interesting story to tell. Or that he does not tell it in a very interesting way. When I finally got to the bit where a handful of pages were dedicated to revealing what was actually going on behind the scenes, I very much wanted to groan. Telling everything in the end may work in the detective novels, but it does not work in fantasy, especially not after the big conflict has already been resolved. I want to understand what the conflict is all about to actually care about it and the characters caught into it. The great revelation in itself was also somewhat of a let-down. The setup was promising, but it was used more as an excuse, than as a great, unifying theme. Not to mention that all of it didn't even make that much sense. So in the end, Last Argument of Kings was let down by a combination of far-too-predictable twist and a weak background story that was delivered in an uninspiring way. Joe Abercrombie is clearly a talented writer. Unfortunately, based on the First Law trilogy, it seems that he is not a very interesting storyteller. To me, a truly memorable fantasy author should be both. ...more A thoroughly enjoyable finish to a fantastic series. There was a lot that needed to happen in this book to close out the various story arcs and a lot did indeed happen. There are more twists in the plot than a circus contortionist and many of our favourite characters are going to end up in unexpected places and positions. Bayaz returns with his party from their failed quest to find \u201cThe Seed\u201d at the edge of the world. Logen Ninefingers AKA \u201cThe Bloody Nine\u201d decides to leave the Union and return t A thoroughly enjoyable finish to a fantastic series. There was a lot that needed to happen in this book to close out the various story arcs and a lot did indeed happen. There are more twists in the plot than a circus contortionist and many of our favourite characters are going to end up in unexpected places and positions. Bayaz returns with his party from their failed quest to find \u201cThe Seed\u201d at the edge of the world. Logen Ninefingers AKA \u201cThe Bloody Nine\u201d decides to leave the Union and return to settle his score with Bethod. He\u2019ll have to face the man he was and the carnage he left behind. \u201cHe\u2019d played at being a different man, but it had all been lies. The hardest kind to see through. The kind you tell yourself. He was the Bloody-Nine. That was the fact, and however he twisted, and squirmed, and wished to be someone else, there was no escaping it. Logen wanted to care. But the Bloody-Nine cares for nothing.\" And no matter how you cut it, not everyone is going to be too pleased to see him return. No matter how many knives he has (and you can\u2019t have too many knives), there\u2019s a lot more pointed back at him \u2013 mostly at his back. As Logen\u2019s father used to say, \u201cNever take a man face to face if you can kill him from behind.\u201d A piece of advice Logen himself tells us he\u2019s always tried to follow. Dogman and Logen\u2019s old crew continue to help the Union push the Northmen back. But the further they get into Bethod\u2019s territory, the harder it gets and the more Shanka they have to face and then there\u2019s that unearthly monster to contend with, Fenris AKA \u201cThe Feared.\u201d Perhaps it\u2019s a good thing that the Bloody Nine is returning and perhaps it\u2019s a just as well he hasn\u2019t changed much from his killing ways. Bayaz resumes his seat on the closed council, but don\u2019t worry, he hasn\u2019t given up on his quest to find \u201cThe Seed.\u201d Or then again, maybe you should be very worried, because as you may have come to suspect Bayaz is no good and kindly Dumbledore, or Gandalf the White, and not even Gandalf the Grey. He definitely likes his magic dark and he treats rules more as . . .suggestions than laws of gods that must be obeyed. That means Ferro will be sticking close to Bayaz because he promised her vengeance and her hatred for the Gurkish is as insatiable as ever. Which is just as well because we are going to be up to armpits in Gurkish. In fact we are going to be up to our armpits in a whole lot of unpleasant things \u2013 Northmen, Gurkish, wizards and eaters. Eaters??!! So there is going to be a lot of carnage all round, because that\u2019s what happens when gods go to war. The little ants get stood on. And that just leaves me to make special mention of our beloved torturer/inquisitor, Superior Glokta \u2013 who by this book has earned his place at the top of my list of favourite characters. He is just so good at so many things. For example - animal husbundary \u2013 he knows that pigs are very good at waste disposal, particularly of the human kind - dentistry \u2013 having had extensive dental treatment himself in a Gurkish prison - neurology \u2013 Glokta knows precisely how many seconds it takes between removing ones finger on the chopping board and when one actually feels the pain. - general human anatomy \u2013 I personally never gave much thought to the sliver of flesh between my testicles and my anus before meeting Glokta, I must confess. In fact I would just about confess to anything had that piece of my body been threatened by a rusty scalpel held by Glokta as he gives his mostly toothless grin. And how will it all end? Probably in tears and blood. Will nobody end up saving the day and getting the girl and living happily ever after? Well . . .maybe there will be one who can make that boast. Will it be Logen and Ferro? Will it be Jezel and Ardee? Will it be Practical Frost and Vitari? Say one thing for it, say it will be totally messed up. We have to be realistic about these things after all. 5 stars. ...more It is the last book in The First Law trilogy (happy 'cause it ended quite good and sad 'cause it ENDED)and I can say for sure that it is the most striking in the trilogy and one of the most gripping stories I've read so far. My praises to the author This books encircled me with action, magic, mysteries and did it wildly. And without a doubt it's the characters that rule this trilogy. The Bloody Northmen and the Union, with Bayaz pulling the strings have the key roles. The author is able to involv It is the last book in The First Law trilogy (happy 'cause it ended quite good and sad 'cause it ENDED)and I can say for sure that it is the most striking in the trilogy and one of the most gripping stories I've read so far. My praises to the author This books encircled me with action, magic, mysteries and did it wildly. And without a doubt it's the characters that rule this trilogy. The Bloody Northmen and the Union, with Bayaz pulling the strings have the key roles. The author is able to involve simple minded people, violent brutes, clever and sly characters and allured me to care about them indeed. These characters are not always good people \u2013 they\u2019ve killed people for silly or harsh reasons and yet I worried, felt sorry for them and laughed from their jokes at the same time. There are no \u201cgood guys\u201d or \u201cbad guys\u201d, there are just simple, sinful and true people. And of course they are heroes (and antiheroes) not forgeting my beloved one, Sand dan Glokta,who steals the show and further fortifies his role as one of most interesting and intriguing characters in the trilogy. Ah, and we can't forget Jezal dan Luthar, such a bastard in the beginning, he makes some hilarious shifts in his character and actually becomes a likeable king. A high reveal. The trilogy ends much the same as it begins: fighting roughly. It's hard to tell what Mr. Abercrombie has prepared for the readers so far, hope I'll meet my beloved ones in the other books of this fabulous writer. ...more Logenu Devetoprstom je mo\u017eda ostalo snage za jo\u0161 samo jednu bitku, ali ona \u0107e biti silna. Rat besni \u010ditavim Severom, kralj Severnjaka i dalje odoleva, a samo ga jedan \u010dovek mo\u017ee zaustaviti. Dobar deo uvoda je potrosen na ovu bitku, veliku i krvavu, i kad je bila da kazemo gotova, doslo je do malog zasicenja. Jer, bitka je bila zaista uhh, a covek treba malo da odmori, jel? Medjutim, nije to dugo trajalo, i rat se preselio u samo srce Saveza. Haos je nastupio, bitka jos veca, za kraljevstvo, za lj Logenu Devetoprstom je mo\u017eda ostalo snage za jo\u0161 samo jednu bitku, ali ona \u0107e biti silna. Rat besni \u010ditavim Severom, kralj Severnjaka i dalje odoleva, a samo ga jedan \u010dovek mo\u017ee zaustaviti. Dobar deo uvoda je potrosen na ovu bitku, veliku i krvavu, i kad je bila da kazemo gotova, doslo je do malog zasicenja. Jer, bitka je bila zaista uhh, a covek treba malo da odmori, jel? Medjutim, nije to dugo trajalo, i rat se preselio u samo srce Saveza. Haos je nastupio, bitka jos veca, za kraljevstvo, za ljubav, za sebe... za spas sveta. Spasavaj se ko moze. I onda kraj... Ne stani, nije jos. O, kakav je to bio zavrsetak trilogije. Taman kad pomislis da je to to, shvatis da nije sve tako crno i belo. A nikad nije ni bilo u ovom serijalu. I to je mozda i najveci kvalitet cele ove price. Kako je pocelo, tako se i zavrsilo. Eksplozivno, neocekivano i ... Prvi zakon, jedan od najboljih serijala epske fantastike. ...more The third book in the trilogy and it was as superb as the previous two. I have been listening to these books on audio for quite some time now and I am going to suffer serious withdrawal symptoms now they are all over. They contain some of the best characters I have ever come across in a book and although I probably would not want any of them as friends ( most of them are evil!) I will still miss them very much. I loved the way the trilogy ended with a scene parallel to the way it started! And I The third book in the trilogy and it was as superb as the previous two. I have been listening to these books on audio for quite some time now and I am going to suffer serious withdrawal symptoms now they are all over. They contain some of the best characters I have ever come across in a book and although I probably would not want any of them as friends ( most of them are evil!) I will still miss them very much. I loved the way the trilogy ended with a scene parallel to the way it started! And I have great hopes that the last scene was not quite as final as it appeared. I know there are some more books out there set in the same world but featuring different characters, and of course I am going to read them, or rather listen to them because narrator Stephen Facey brings them to such extraordinary life. ...more Wow, just... Wow. The story doesn't end, but loose ends are tied, maybe not so neatly, but they are wrapped up. Sort of. At this point in the trilogy, there's really nothing new about the characters, except for the lengths to which they will go to attain and obtain their own ends. The king showed himself to be royal in his character, while others are sneaky, manipulative scoundrels. I was surprised at when the battle ended, with over four hours left in the (Audible) book. But the palace intrigue Wow, just... Wow. The story doesn't end, but loose ends are tied, maybe not so neatly, but they are wrapped up. Sort of. At this point in the trilogy, there's really nothing new about the characters, except for the lengths to which they will go to attain and obtain their own ends. The king showed himself to be royal in his character, while others are sneaky, manipulative scoundrels. I was surprised at when the battle ended, with over four hours left in the (Audible) book. But the palace intrigue and maneuvering took up the rest of the book, and that's still my favorite part of this series. Gonna take a break from this world before picking up the three single titles set here. ...more Friends are people one pretends to like in order to make life bearable. Men like us have no need of such indulgences. It is or enemies by which we are measured Ok..I...Ummm....Err. Let me start over, I really don't know what the Hell to say. One thing I kind say for sure is that Joe Abercrombie is one hell of a writer. Everytime I think that the next book can't get better, Dam he proves me wrong, Big Time. Can't wait to read Best served Cold Knjige iz trilogije Prvi zakon verovatno su najbolje koje sam \u010ditao ove godine, a D\u017eo Aberkrombi je brzo postao jedan od omiljenih pisaca. Tre\u0107i deo je podjednako \u017eestok, zabavan i pun akcije. Karakterizacija ostaje najbolja Aberkrombijeva odlika, likovi su do te mere detaljno opisani da sam mogao da ih jasno vidim - kao da stoje pored mene. Glokta je moj omiljeni lik iz epske fantastike (jedino mo\u017ee da mu pri\u0111e Tirion Lanister), pa sam tako i sada unapred listao knjigu gledaju\u0107i u kojoj sceni \u0107 Knjige iz trilogije Prvi zakon verovatno su najbolje koje sam \u010ditao ove godine, a D\u017eo Aberkrombi je brzo postao jedan od omiljenih pisaca. Tre\u0107i deo je podjednako \u017eestok, zabavan i pun akcije. Karakterizacija ostaje najbolja Aberkrombijeva odlika, likovi su do te mere detaljno opisani da sam mogao da ih jasno vidim - kao da stoje pored mene. Glokta je moj omiljeni lik iz epske fantastike (jedino mo\u017ee da mu pri\u0111e Tirion Lanister), pa sam tako i sada unapred listao knjigu gledaju\u0107i u kojoj sceni \u0107e se on opet pojaviti. Me\u0111utim, drugi likovi nisu ni u kom pogledu zapostavljeni: Bajaz je na mene ostavio najja\u010di utisak, ali i neizbe\u017eni Logen, zatim D\u017eezal, Vest i Fero. Iako Poslednji argument kraljeva u Laguninom izdanju ima vi\u0161e od sedamsto stranica, bilo mi je pomalo \u017eao kada sam zavr\u0161io ovu trilogiju. Sva sre\u0107a pa je tu jo\u0161 nekoliko knjiga iz sveta Prvog zakona ! Preporu\u010dujem ovu knjigu ne samo ljubiteljima epske fantastike, nego i svima koji u\u017eivaju u odli\u010dno osmi\u0161ljenoj pri\u010di sa puno obrta, gde svaki deli\u0107 slagalice do\u0111e na svoje mesto, i gde su likovi tako dobro opisani da \u0107ete ih koristiti kao primer: tako se to radi. Tako se stvara pri\u010da koja dr\u017ei \u010ditaoca od prve stranice i zavr\u0161ava trilogija. Pet sa zvezdicom. ...more Epic/Dark Fantasy Buddy Read with Anasylvia, Alexa, Robin, Michelle, and Eon. WTF! I don't know how to rate this or what kind of review to write for this..... Fuck it, I don't care what people think...I love this damn series. I will read it over and over and over again. I loved it so damn much that I ordered and bought the graphic novel...even though I can read it for free online. The First Law Graphic Novel Ugh..Its so flawed with these fucked up characters that I love them anyway. How is that I Epic/Dark Fantasy Buddy Read with Anasylvia, Alexa, Robin, Michelle, and Eon. WTF! I don't know how to rate this or what kind of review to write for this..... Fuck it, I don't care what people think...I love this damn series. I will read it over and over and over again. I loved it so damn much that I ordered and bought the graphic novel...even though I can read it for free online. The First Law Graphic Novel Ugh..Its so flawed with these fucked up characters that I love them anyway. How is that I love the blood thirsty cripple who loves to torture, or the stick up his ass Captain, Jezal dan Luthar, and his narrow minded way of thinking. On top of all that, the narrator is AMAZING! A-MA-ZING! Like no joke, he's right there with Michael Kramer for me. I'm not going to tell you about this book/series, if you love blood and back stabbing and to fall in love with flawed characters read this damn series. I loved it...fucking loved it!!! ...more Nooooooooooooooooooooooo...please don't be over...I tried to eke it out as long as poss but mehhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...it's over... So, yes you have guessed correctly I LOVE this trilogy. Best. Fantasy. Ever. For me. Gonna read it again yayyyyyyyyyyy!!!!!! 6.0 stars. On my list of All Time Favorite novels (along with the other two books in \"The First Law\" trilogy). This series re-wrote the definition of fantasy \"noir\" (i.e., darker in theme, characters \"grey\" rather than black and white and more adult in theme). All three books were incredible and the end was terrific (and completely in keeping with the tone of the series). Brilliantly done. I can not wait for the next book by Mr. Abercrombie. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!! Nominee: David Gemme 6.0 stars. On my list of All Time Favorite novels (along with the other two books in \"The First Law\" trilogy). This series re-wrote the definition of fantasy \"noir\" (i.e., darker in theme, characters \"grey\" rather than black and white and more adult in theme). All three books were incredible and the end was terrific (and completely in keeping with the tone of the series). Brilliantly done. I can not wait for the next book by Mr. Abercrombie. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!! Nominee: David Gemmell Legend of Fantasy Award (2009) Voted #2 of SFSite Reader's Poll (2009). ...more The Last Argument of Kings brings to close The First Law series; and what an ending. Forbidden powers are unleashed once more into the world in the desperate fight against the Gurkish and the Hundred. Adua, the capital of the Union, is in ruins. Great men are toppled and new men made, and the hand behind the curtain is finally revealed. This series restores my hope in the fantasy genre. I am tired of Tolkein and clones of Tolkein. (Please, no more Robert Jordan.) The First Law series breaks \u2013 sh The Last Argument of Kings brings to close The First Law series; and what an ending. Forbidden powers are unleashed once more into the world in the desperate fight against the Gurkish and the Hundred. Adua, the capital of the Union, is in ruins. Great men are toppled and new men made, and the hand behind the curtain is finally revealed. This series restores my hope in the fantasy genre. I am tired of Tolkein and clones of Tolkein. (Please, no more Robert Jordan.) The First Law series breaks \u2013 shatters \u2013 the template. The world is complex, dirty and twisted. There is no clear distinction between good versus evil here. Nominally the Gurkish are bad and the Union is good, but it is not so simple in the First Law. Glotka is a wretched man, a torturer, who sacrifices hundreds and thousands in the service of his masters. Bayaz, the First of the Magi, is unveiled as a stained character as well. Did he, in fact, throw his master\u2019s daughter off of the ramparts? What about his willful release of demonic powers in Adua? What about his wanton disregard of the Second law himself (on the part of Sulfur)? I love complexity. The real world is complex, and to have a fantasy world complex makes it more real, more believable. This makes the whole story more compelling and engaging. On the note of world building, Abercrombie does a great job. I love the fact that magic is uncommon (and has consequences) throughout most of the story. This contributes to the epic quality of the struggle. The actions of men matter \u2013 whether it is Glotka\u2019s investigations, West\u2019s crusade in the north, or Logen\u2019s fury. The characters add to the sense of a living, breathing, plausible world. Sand dan Glotka is probably my favorite character of all time in a fantasy book. The man is flawed - deeply, deeply flawed. He wallows in self-pity and self-recriminations \u2013 his withered frame, the fact that no woman will ever look at him with anything other than scorn again, his fear of his masters. But Glotka overcomes his limitations. The man refuses to give up. He fights, he struggles, he claws. He is determined to survive. I love the fact that he is such a flawed, complex man. It makes him human. And this doesn\u2019t even touch the other characters \u2013 Logen, Jezel, West, etc. My only gripe is that the women felt underdeveloped \u2013 particularly Ardee. Ferro was more one-dimensional, but somehow that worked in her case. Ardee, by contrast, was a potential gold mine; the abused sister of West, lover of Jezel, and touching the lives of most of the major male characters. I wanted to see more of her story. Finally, I like the fact that Abercrombie brought the series to a close. I understand that the stories of many of the characters continue in other books, but this particular story arc was brought to a close. And Abercrombie reveals all when he brings it to an end \u2013 the role of the Valint & Bock banking house, the hand behind the curtain, the Gurkish invasion, the crisis of the North, and more. All of the loose ends were tied back together for the reader. On that note, I was pleased that it wasn\u2019t necessarily a happy ending. Logen returns to the North and finds something less than expected. Jezel is king but finds less than he had hoped. This contributes to the \u2018realness\u2019 of the whole story. Life, as much as we might like it to be otherwise, does not always have a happy ending. You have to be realistic about these things. Five stars. ...more I don't know what I expected. Certainly not a happy ending for everyone. Certainly not that. But with 15 or so characters in a trilogy you'd think there'd be SOME kind of good. I get it, I really do. Abercrombie's created this dark world. Torture, murder, rape, war, torture, battle, dismemberment, torture, wasting diseases, slavery, oh - and did I mention torture? Don't worry - Abercrombie's thoroughly convinced me that his world is a crappy place - a place where you'd be better off not being bor I don't know what I expected. Certainly not a happy ending for everyone. Certainly not that. But with 15 or so characters in a trilogy you'd think there'd be SOME kind of good. I get it, I really do. Abercrombie's created this dark world. Torture, murder, rape, war, torture, battle, dismemberment, torture, wasting diseases, slavery, oh - and did I mention torture? Don't worry - Abercrombie's thoroughly convinced me that his world is a crappy place - a place where you'd be better off not being born. And that's the part I don't understand. No matter what Abercrombie says, there needs to be a little good and happiness in the world in order for people to have the will to go on. There is no pleasure or goodness in these books. In 15 or so people's lives - there HAS to be something. Babies? Kissing? Petting fluffy animals? Fresh baked cookies? I don't care - SOMETHING. Things can't be misery and despair 24/7. They just can't. And I know this is a dark fantasy or a grim fantasy or whatever you want to call it - but jeez. There's a limit to what a reader can take. It doesn't rain, instead 'the sky pisses.' Everyone 'swallows sour spit' ALL THE TIME. Everyone is horribly damaged - not just a little messed up - truly f*cked up (in head AND body, usually) - and they aren't really allowed to get out of this. Everyone ends up in either the exact same situation at the beginning of the trilogy - or a much worse one, with the possible exception of Glokta and Ardee. But even with Glokta and Ardee's relative 'happy ending' - and I use this term loosely - Glokta is still living in hell and actively creating hell for hundreds of other people. He's not even remotely close to a good person. The trouble is, I had hope. With the second book I had so much hope - Abercrombie showed me what these people could become. He showed me the little glimmers of greatness and goodness inside them. He showed me a better future. And then in this book he snatched that all away. Abercrombie is SUCH A GOOD AUTHOR. I felt like these characters were people who lived and breathed. I could see them all. I could hear their voices. I was rooting for them SO HARD! Eventually, about halfway through this volume I sunk into a pit of despair, knowing all was lost, watching my beloved characters get plunged back into hell. Sad. Closing the book I just feel sad, and depressed, and like maybe life is a horrible horrible thing that only brings misery and despair. And that is NOT the way I want to feel when I finish a book. ...more", "Title": "Last Argument of Kings"},
