{"Comments": "<+++>The Know-It-All: One Man's Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World</+++>This book chronicles snarky rich kid (<---B>he is actually 35</---B>) A.J. Jacob's quest to read The Encyclopedia Brittanica from A-Z, in an attempt to become \"the smartest person in the world\". Jacobs breaks the book into alphabetical chapters and free-associates on the entries that he finds interesting. This book was by no means dull, but it was interesting in the way that flipping through the encyclopedia or the dictionary yourself is interesting-- as you scan the pages you find weird little tidbits that This book chronicles snarky rich kid (he is actually 35) A.J. Jacob's quest to read The Encyclopedia Brittanica from A-Z, in an attempt to become \"the smartest person in the world\". Jacobs breaks the book into alphabetical chapters and free-associates on the entries that he finds interesting. This book was by no means dull, but it was interesting in the way that flipping through the encyclopedia or the dictionary yourself is interesting-- as you scan the pages you find weird little tidbits that catch your fancy. So as a list of weird little tidbits,<---M> this book is amusing</---M>, but it sort of reinforces the foolishness of Jacob's enterprise. If this 369 page book represents all you think merits reflection in the massive, massive Britannica, what is the point of doing this? And the half-assed summation saying that you learned about the connections between things is not a particularly jarring revelation. The text felt padded with Jacob's incessant witticisms and unrelenting attempts to distance himself from his incredibly priviliged background by painting himself as a shallow regular guy with a nerd streak. I also got the feeling that some editor somewhere told Jacob's that he needed some sort of personal content to help the reader relate to him, so that he found ways to work details of his difficulty getting his wife pregnant into almost every letter. All of the interjections about his personal life felt forced and superficial. All of the characters seemed one-dimensional and irritating. I just didn't care about Jacobs or his life. He seemed like an over-priviliged hipster douchebag who got a book deal because he has good connections. ...more This was a little more like actually reading the Encyclopedia Britannica than I was really prepared for. I think it took me longer to read this book than it took Jacobs to read the entire Encyclopedia Britannica , too. So, I\u2019m not sure what that says about my reading stamina. It took Jacobs something like a year to read the encyclopedia? I think it took me two years to read this book. Although I don\u2019t really get how it\u2019s possible that it took him a year because I feel like way more than half of t This was a little more like actually reading the Encyclopedia Britannica than I was really prepared for. I think it took me longer to read this book than it took Jacobs to read the entire Encyclopedia Britannica , too. So, I\u2019m not sure what that says about my reading stamina. It took Jacobs something like a year to read the encyclopedia? I think it took me two years to read this book. Although I don\u2019t really get how it\u2019s possible that it took him a year because I feel like way more than half of the book was about Jacobs and his wife trying to get pregnant, but then she was seven months pregnant when the book was over. Maybe he just read a lot more during the first half of the year. Or maybe it took him more than a year.<---F> I can\u2019t go back and check</---F>. Anyway, writing a review of this book is pretty meta because the book itself is basically a goodreads.com review of the encyclopedia. Ambitious. So this is a review of a review of the encyclopedia. I am terrible at retaining factual knowledge long term, and I\u2019d have to say I probably kind of avoid learning trivial facts \u2013 dates, names, places. I guess, using the word \u201ctrivial\u201d is wrong because it sounds like they are less important than other facts, but what I mean is that systems and theories make more sense to me, and I\u2019m not good with factual data. It\u2019s probably because of that that Jacob\u2019s Year of Living Biblically was more entertaining to me. Know-It-All is basically about whether there is value in knowing a lot of facts, where Biblically is about the value of religion. Both have this OCD intensity, combined with a charming humility. It\u2019s very disarming, but at the same time disconcerting in some way. Obviously, he cares enough about these projects to follow through with them, but at the same time, most of the books are about him being self-conscious about the fact that he\u2019s doing the projects, but he\u2019s also proud enough of them to publish books about them. I guess it\u2019s good that he recognizes the projects are unusual. Jacobs writes the kind of review here that not everybody likes \u2013 it\u2019s filled with personal anecdotes about how the encyclopedia affected him and what he was doing when reading sections of it. I find that interesting, but it is not for everyone. There is also a lot of trivia in here that relates to random legal facts and stories that I learned this past year in school \u2013 like the three-mile rule and the Bird in Space story. That was cool. I guess, again, Biblically made more sense to me because I\u2019ve spent a lot of time considering the value of religion and of interpretations of spiritual texts, where I\u2019ve always been pretty comfortable with my cursory decision that reading an entire encyclopedia is of no interest to me. That\u2019s just a personal preference, and you could feel the opposite. Anyway, I have a crush on <---A>A.J. Jacobs</---A>. He\u2019s charming and smart, but still has some perspective. His wife is probably a saint, and she seems pretty charming, too. Maybe I have a little crush on their whole family. That adds a little sparkle to my read of his stories. ...more I saw this dude in person talking about his newer book (\"The Year of Living Bibically\"): he seemed quirky, intelligent, curious, funny, and overall quite interesting. In time I saw that he used the same one-liners in every medium available and he was kind of obnoxious, but this was before that. He cast quite a spell on me and I knew I wanted to buy one of his books then. He had just talked about \"The Year\", it was newer, and honestly it just seemed a lot more interesting than a book about readin I saw this dude in person talking about his newer book (\"The Year of Living Bibically\"): he seemed quirky, intelligent, curious, funny, and overall quite interesting. In time I saw that he used the same one-liners in every medium available and he was kind of obnoxious, but this was before that. He cast quite a spell on me and I knew I wanted to buy one of his books then. He had just talked about \"The Year\", it was newer, and honestly it just seemed a lot more interesting than a book about reading the encyclopedia. However, \"The Year\" was only available in hardcover, this was in paperback. There's a great example of cheap-stupid-Polish-man-logic: 1. I want book X, I don't want book Y. 2. Book X is expensive, book Y is cheap. Therefore, 3. I buy book Y. Still I liked it: it made me appreciate knowledge for its own sake a little more and I tried intentially to remember a lot of this stuff (making mental notes as I went and quizzing myself every once in a while, to less than optimal effect). I list some highlights (to contine to try to remember this stuff): A. - \"assualt\" is the ATTEMPT to apply force, \"battery\" is the actual application B. - Bacon, Francis died for knowledge C. - \"claque\" is canned laughter - lightning goes up (under \"climate\") D. - the Darwins did a lot of things - Descartes liked cross-eyed women - Dyer, John: \"A little rule, a little sway/A sunbeam in a winter's day/Is all the proud and mighty have/Between the cradle and the grave\". E. - \"the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, nor bread to the wise, nor riches to the intelligent, nor favor to the men of skill; but time and chance happen to them all\" (from \"Ecclesiates\"). - there are not dates between Oct. 4 & Oct. 15, 1582 because that's when we switched to the Gregorian calender (under \"Eggplant\"). F. - \"This too shall pass\" (ask me to explain this \"Fable\"). - \"Riding in a taxi one afternoon between very tall buildings under a mauve and rosy sky, I began to bawl because I had everything I wanted and I knew I would never be so happy again\" (\"Ftzgerald, F. Scott\"). - Alex Trebek: \"I'm curious about everything--even things that don't interest me\" (from \"Frigate birds\"). - in nautical law a country has jurisdiction over the first 3 miles from its coast because that's how far a cannon's range was then (IBID) G. - Lincoln's \"Gettysburg address\" was a 2-minute warm-up speech for a 2-hour speech by Edward Everett. - Eric the Red called it \"Greenland\" so more people would join him there. H. - boring I. - boring, too J. - Jessie James was shot in the back while he was adjusting a picture in his home (I know this from the movie, too) K. - Kafka wanted most of work destroyed after his death - Kiekegaard thougt his family was cursed after his dad cursed God L. - Elisha Gray almost beat Bell's patent for the telephone just like Langeley, Samuel almost beat the Wright Brothers. - \"capitonyms\" are words in our Language that change their meaning based on whether their first letter is capitalized (like \"Polish\" and \"herb\"), \"miranyms\" are the words between antonyms (\"flat\" is the miranym of \"convex\" and \"concave\") - Lucky Luciano helped the US Navy in WWII. - the Lumiere brothers made the first movie. M. - there is a master kilogram - Montaigne made up the word \"essay\" which meant \"attempt\" or \"project of trial and error\". - the cuckoo is an agressive mimic. - the blind man wants to know what the color scarlet is like so he interviews a lot of people, thinks about it a lot, and finally announces \"Scarlett is like the sound of a trumpet\" (from John Locke). Nothing. O. - Olympus Mons is the largest volcano in the solar system (on Mars). P. - Thomas Paine died poor, drunk, and his skeleton was lost en route to England. - passenger pigeons became extinct in Sept. 1, 1914. - John Adams and Thomas Jefferson both died on the 50th anniversary of the founding of the USA (July 4th, 1826). - people find time shorter as they age because they notice long-accustumed changes less often - \"But we are born of risen apes, not fallen angels... and so \"we are known among the stars by our poems, not our corpses\" (Robert Andrey). Q. - a \"Qa\" is a Babylonian liquid measurement. R. - Walter Reed discovered that yellow fever was spread by misquitoes - scholarship in Judiasm is an \"ethical good\", hell is \"Gehenna\" - a gedankenexperiment is a thought experiment S. - Chief Justice Salmon Chase is on the front of the $10,000 bill T. - some think the IQ test measures analytic intelligence at the expense of creative and practical intelligence, crystallized at the expense of fluid intelligence - the Tungusta event was an aerial explosion that flattened 500 acres of forest in Russia, 1908. -Mark Twain submitted the first type-written manuscript (I do remember this) U. - Descartes walks into a bar, bartender asks, Yo, Descartes, do want a beer?\" to which he replies \"I think not\" and disappears (I told this to 2 old philosophy professors in an email; they didn't think it was too funny [one actually pointed out how the joke made a mistake about Descartes cogito]). - dalmations and humans are the only mammals to produce uric acid V. - vending machines were installed so workers didn't need a full break for food - the opposition is the team that the harlem globetrotters beat all the time - \"axillism\" is sex with the armpit W. -Nagasaki was bombed after the plane was unable to bomb Kokura - the white house was originally called the president's palace -the life expectency in ancient Rome was 29 years XYZ. - \"All great truths start out as blasphemies\" (GB Shaw). - Zywiec is the last word in the encyclopedia bertannica, and it is a small town in south-central Poland. I have come full circle. ...more What a thoroughly enjoyable book! When Esquire editor A.J. Jacobs sets out to read the entire Encyclopedia Britannica, you can guess you're going to get lots of interesting trivia tidbits from the world's leading compendium of knowledge. But what makes the book far more rewarding is that A.J. Jacobs is flat out funny. And after suffering through all the authors who attempt to write humor and do it badly, it is so good to be able to say that. I found myself laughing out loud every couple of pages. What a thoroughly enjoyable book! When Esquire editor A.J. Jacobs sets out to read the entire Encyclopedia Britannica, you can guess you're going to get lots of interesting trivia tidbits from the world's leading compendium of knowledge. But what makes the book far more rewarding is that A.J. Jacobs is flat out funny. And after suffering through all the authors who attempt to write humor and do it badly, it is so good to be able to say that. I found myself laughing out loud every couple of pages. Just a few tidbits: At one point (under the word \"tutelage\"), Jacobs goes to visit a writing class, which has \"about a dozen students who want to shed their real jobs and join the lucrative field of writing, where you can earn lots of money if your name happens to include both the words 'Stephen' and 'King.'\" Or, the entry for \"heroin\" \"Heroin was first developed by the Bayer Company. That'll whisk your headache away faster than a couple of dozen aspirin. Take two syringefuls and call me in the morning. Or late afternoon.\" Or, under \"Ghandi,\" after the Britannica tells him that Ghandi had a rebellious streak as an adolescent, even eating (gasp) meat, Jacobs writes: \"Gandhi -- that little thug! I wonder if other parents in Porbandar told their kids, 'For the last time, I don't want you hanging around with that bad seed Mohandas!' this gives me Movie Idea Number Three: 'Young Ghandi,' with Frankie Muniz as the cigarette-sucking, burger-eating pickpocket who eventually accepts his fate as the most saintly man alive.\" Along the way, we learn about Jacobs' hypochondria, his attempts with wife Julie to have a baby, his parents and other relatives, and go along with him as he joins a Mensa outing, competes on Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, interviews Alex Trebek and does other smartest man in the world activities. Most of the book is a fascinating funny romp through the world of facts, but in the end, it also is heartwarming, and you actually care about what happens to A.J. and Julie and the other people in his life. And you learn such great trivia as the fact that only human beings and Dalmatians produce uric acid in their pee. ...more first of all, since when is \"i spent a year ________ing\" a trendy model for a book? seems like they're all over the place now, but i don't remember seeing quite the plethora before. my friend beth spent a year following the advice of self-help gurus; a.j. jacobs read the entire encyclopedia brittanica. and then there's that me & julia cooking lady; karaoke nation; the dishwasher book; self-made man (the gal who posed as a dude); early bird (the guy who spent a year at a retirement community first of all, since when is \"i spent a year ________ing\" a trendy model for a book? seems like they're all over the place now, but i don't remember seeing quite the plethora before. my friend beth spent a year following the advice of self-help gurus; a.j. jacobs read the entire encyclopedia brittanica. and then there's that me & julia cooking lady; karaoke nation; the dishwasher book; self-made man (the gal who posed as a dude); early bird (the guy who spent a year at a retirement community in boca raton); kingsolver's latest on how she ate organic; jacobs' forthcoming book, in which he apparently spends a year trying to adhere to the rules of the bible. oy! and that's just off the top of my head! what ever happened to being hired by harper's to write a 10,000 word article about your week aboard a cruise ship? anyway, i liked jacobs' book a lot. are there flaws? yes, there are flaws. but, as i learned from the book, there are flaws even in the venerable e.b. (a couple of typos; the fudged fact that robert frost graduated from harvard). he's a little self-consciously nerdy (how many times can he stutter out irrelevant facts in inappropriate social situations and leave the listeners nonplussed?), and i cared so not at all about his struggle to have a baby (i guess i'm hard-hearted, but in my mind upper-middle class fertility issues don't qualify as plot). the biggest problem i had, though, was his occasional astonishing shallowness. here's (some of) his entry on sylvia plath: \"what is it with writers and suicide?.... i find the whole phenomenon a bit baffling. as far as jobs go, writers have a pretty sweet deal. you make your own hours, the dress code is remarkably lax. you rarely strain your back, you don't have your phone calls recorded for training purposes, and you don't have to intentionally lose to clients at golf. and the ladies like you.... these writers need to buck up and suck up and keep the nooses off their damn necks.\" hmmm. reducing plath and lowell and hemingway to a cheeky esquire-esque sidebar kinda proved how much he didn't learn from his year after all. plus, it kinda made my blood boil. just buck up, you tortured geniuses! i absorbed some great facts along the way, though: lightning strikes up; descartes had a fetish for cross-eyed women; the couple in american gothic are the painter's sister and his dentist; in roman times, a mime show often included live sex acts and actual executions. p.s. i have a set of world books staring at me from the shelf right now. do i smell a publishing contract? (p.p.s. i just noticed there's something out there called a know-it-all calendar. ick!) ...more I loved this book.Reminds me of when I was a child and would read the encyclopedia because there was nothing else in the house.Extremely funny, one of the only books to actually make me laugh out loud no matter where I was. I laughed out loud repeatedly through this book. I even made my husband read it This is the first book by the author who wrote The Year of Living Biblically, which I read last month. In this one, Jacobs decides to become the smartest person in the world by reading the Encyclopedia Brittanica from beginning to end. Jacobs has a separate chapter for every letter, and within the chapter he divides the sections out by subjects within that letter - highlighting important facts for us, and throwing in stories about how this quest is affecting his personal life - mostly making him This is the first book by the author who wrote The Year of Living Biblically, which I read last month. In this one, Jacobs decides to become the smartest person in the world by reading the Encyclopedia Brittanica from beginning to end. Jacobs has a separate chapter for every letter, and within the chapter he divides the sections out by subjects within that letter - highlighting important facts for us, and throwing in stories about how this quest is affecting his personal life - mostly making him an incredibly annoying conversant during dinner parties. This way of arranging the book became tedious to me after about letter C. I found the basic premise interesting, but I would have preferred more of a 30,000 foot perspective. There's a reason I would never read the Encyclopedia Brittanica - there's no way I could retain any of the facts. This book felt the same way - Jacobs was so intent on showing that he had read each encyclopedia entry that he filled his book with too many forgetable facts causing me to lose his overall purpose. Too many trees and not enough forest. I've had the same problem with both of Jacobs's books, but he is certainly clever and I do look forward to seeing what he puts his mind to next. ...more Definitely food for you brain, but upon purchasing this book I wasn't aware the chapters of the book went from \"A-Z\" each chapter containing his favorite words/definitions, mixed in with narrative of his life. I liked the author, but sometimes he could really get on my nerves..if i heard one more mention of visiting his parents in \"East Hampton\" and countless mentions of being an \"upper middle class New Yorker\" writing on his \"white Macintosh lap book\", or his complaining about how he couldn't g Definitely food for you brain, but upon purchasing this book I wasn't aware the chapters of the book went from \"A-Z\" each chapter containing his favorite words/definitions, mixed in with narrative of his life. I liked the author, but sometimes he could really get on my nerves..if i heard one more mention of visiting his parents in \"East Hampton\" and countless mentions of being an \"upper middle class New Yorker\" writing on his \"white Macintosh lap book\", or his complaining about how he couldn't get his wife pregnant, I was going to scream...but hey this book had its moments. Funny parts include his visit to the Mensa convention and the \"characters\" he encountered there; his brief stint on \"Who wants to be a Millionaire.\" Just like the author, I too can now dazzle people with my facts about how opossums have 13 nipples, oysters can change their sex according to the current water temperature, or how the Bayer company was the developer of heroin. Awesome! ...more I could have done without reading this book. I thought it was cleverly compiled, but realistically, who wants to read a book with a listing of definitions? The only parts that made me want to keep reading were AJ's adventure on Millionaire and his journey to having a child. A novel concept, but not worth the 300+ pages of reading. A.J. Jacobs has noticed an ever widening gap left from graduating from an Ivy League education. His solution, to read the entire Encyclopaedia Britannica, from A to Z. Follow A.J. as he works his way through all 32 volumes, that\u2019s 33 thousand pages and 44 million words. His wife thinks it\u2019s a waste of time, his friends believe he has lost his mind, but follow this unconventional task in this memoir. I have read an A.J. Jacobs memoir before; I read \u201cYear of Living Biblically: One Man\u2019s Humble Ques A.J. Jacobs has noticed an ever widening gap left from graduating from an Ivy League education. His solution, to read the entire Encyclopaedia Britannica, from A to Z. Follow A.J. as he works his way through all 32 volumes, that\u2019s 33 thousand pages and 44 million words. His wife thinks it\u2019s a waste of time, his friends believe he has lost his mind, but follow this unconventional task in this memoir. I have read an A.J. Jacobs memoir before; I read \u201cYear of Living Biblically: One Man\u2019s Humble Quest to Follow the Bible as Literally as Possible\u201d and found it really entertaining. This task sounded really interesting, I\u2019m interested in the things people do to increase their pretentious levels. I\u2019m not sure I will ever take up a task like reading the Encyclopaedia, especially with easy to access to Wikipedia. Knowledge has interested me, and the way to obtain more knowledge is fascinating. The full title of this book is The Know-It-All: One Man\u2019s Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World; A.J. Jacobs documents the journey in this hilarious memoir. Not only do you get little snippets of facts that he found interesting but you get a look at his life. I really enjoyed the social impact reading the Encyclopaedia had; you watch his pretentious levels rise but you also watch his social skills fall. Obviously people don\u2019t like being corrected, or want to hear weird related facts but I can\u2019t help thinking that I would do the same thing as well. A.J. Jacobs is quite a character and reading about the ways he tries to put his newfound knowledge into practise was really interesting. From going to a chess club, a crossword tournament and Who Wants To Be a Millionaire, Jacobs tries all sorts of ways to practise often with hilarious effects. Why take the test to join Mensa if you are already in Mensa; why not? Although A.J. Jacobs was entertaining, I really found his dad so much more interesting; he was fascinating. I love books about books and humorous memoirs about learning, so this was right up my alley. A.J. Jacobs got the balance between trivia and real life. Following Jacobs and his wife as they try to get pregnant and I felt relief when they finally conceived. I\u2019m curious if there are more entertaining memoirs like this worth reading, maybe a year reading classics or just novels, something similar. I think I need to read more books like this. This review originally appeared on my blog; http://literary-exploration.com/2013/... ...more An annoying book about reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica that I was compelled to finish. Humour is subjective and I found Jacobs' nebbish, hypochondriac, regular Jewish guy persona to be pretty fake and forced (as well as pretty old, Woody Allen did it much better). (He's an Esquire editor, roomed with a Kennedy in college, goes on fab vacations, all while trying to portray himself as a bumbling oaf. If he had just fessed up to being an elitist with some intellectual pretensions I would An annoying book about reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica that I was compelled to finish. Humour is subjective and I found Jacobs' nebbish, hypochondriac, regular Jewish guy persona to be pretty fake and forced (as well as pretty old, Woody Allen did it much better). (He's an Esquire editor, roomed with a Kennedy in college, goes on fab vacations, all while trying to portray himself as a bumbling oaf. If he had just fessed up to being an elitist with some intellectual pretensions I would have found the book way more enjoyable.) For human interest he shoe-horned in a rather pat telling of he and his wife trying to get pregnant. It is okay that Jacobs didn't really want to share his and his wife's private life, but it is painfully obvious he was being jokey to cover the real thing. Yet I was compelled to finish the book. I loved how it was organized, going from Chapter A to Chapter XYZ. Jacobs comes up with interesting factoids. I wish he'd just relaxed and let himself appear a little more intellectually engaged. If I'll take away anything from Jacobs' quest to read the Encyclopedia Britannica, it is this: Ebbinghaus. ------------- My counter-recommendation: Vanishing Point by David Markson. Fiction that stretches the definition of fiction - composed of index card length bits, much of which are quotes or facts about writers and visual artists, the other part the slow deterioration of a mind. Compulsively readable in a very happy way. Markson gets the order and the juxtapositions right. Poetic collage. I keep picking this book up and re-reading it. ...more I decided to clear my rating. I didn't find it particularly amusing, but it didn't repulse me or anything. The thing is, a lot of us bookish kids back in days of yore did find ourselves at some point sitting down and reading encyclopedias. So, as far as I'm concerned, Jacobs is way late to the game. As anyone who knows me can attest, I generally spout information to anyone who will listen to me. Most conversations begin: I heard on NPR the other day . . . For example, did you know there's a marsupial species in Australia whose male population only lives 11 months, the last month of which is spent obsessed with procreating or that a cockroach can live up to ten days without a head? Just one of the many useless bits of knowledge I have tucked away. AJ Jacobs wrote \"The Know-It-All\" as a quest As anyone who knows me can attest, I generally spout information to anyone who will listen to me. Most conversations begin: I heard on NPR the other day . . . For example, did you know there's a marsupial species in Australia whose male population only lives 11 months, the last month of which is spent obsessed with procreating or that a cockroach can live up to ten days without a head? Just one of the many useless bits of knowledge I have tucked away. AJ Jacobs wrote \"The Know-It-All\" as a quest/personal memoir about his journey reading the entire Encyclopaedia Britannica. He believed that if he read this behemoth, he would then be deemed \"the smartest man in the world.\" I guess the big question is this: does a wide breadth of knowledge really equate increased intelligence? I'm not sure the answer is found in this book. The author does explore different situations that prove intelligence -- from the socially awkward MENSA folks to a crossword competition to appearing on \"Who Wants to be a Millionaire.\" Perhaps ironically or perhaps a greater message that knowledge is nothing unless you have the speed or acuity to compete at random games, Jacobs does not succeed at any of these things. And I wasn't exactly satisfied by the end. It ends quite abruptly without much introspection, but I guess after reading 30,000 pages ranging from Greek gods to astrophysics, I'd be pretty much too exhausted to write/think anymore. ...more Author A. J. Jacobs' informative and hilarious romp through the Encyclopedia Britannica. Quite the page-tuner (unlike the complete Encyclopedia Britannica, I'm guessing). Overall this is a book worth reading for both the knowledge and the humor. It was, however, at times rough going and I felt as if I was experiencing Jacob's challenge of reading through the encyclopedia but on an obviously much smaller scale. I think it was just too much material, as there is chapter for each letter of the alphabet and, though there are enough fascinating bits of knowledge scattered throughout with the occasional laugh-out-loud Jacobian moments, they seemed for a long stretch to Overall this is a book worth reading for both the knowledge and the humor. It was, however, at times rough going and I felt as if I was experiencing Jacob's challenge of reading through the encyclopedia but on an obviously much smaller scale. I think it was just too much material, as there is chapter for each letter of the alphabet and, though there are enough fascinating bits of knowledge scattered throughout with the occasional laugh-out-loud Jacobian moments, they seemed for a long stretch to come too infrequently. The book soon became the one I read for a few minutes just before bed, or for a few minutes in the bathroom; in other words, it took a real long time to finish the book. I managed to read the last 100 pages over a three-day weekend and I don't know if it was because the book got more interesting and funnier, or because I was basically stuck at home with nothing else to do (or maybe I kept going to bed and using the bathroom a lot). In any event, as I noted, there is a lot of fascinating information scattered throughout the book. Jacobs is a humorist and he has plenty of very funny and laugh-out-loud funny comments and observations. However, as I suggested above, during the first two-thirds of the book these seemed to come few and far between. Also, he drops the f-bomb too often for my taste (and it is unnecessary). Here is my petty complaint about the book: as a backdrop to his effort to read the encyclopedia, Jacobs keeps us up-to-date on he and his wife's effort to have a baby. Unfortunately, he kept using the phrase, \"We are trying to get pregnant.\" I have news for him: until he has an artificial womb inserted in him, and a willing accomplish to impregnate him, only his wife will succeed. The other background story is his constant comparison to his father, an accomplished attorney who has written more than 20 law books and is a prankster. This was okay although at times I was wondering if he could have spared us some of his public therapy sessions. I forgive this because his father is a fellow graduate of Bronx Science. ...more I can no longer force myself to read this. I started reading it in August and have only gotten 46% of the way through. It clearly isn't happening, and there is absolutely no reason to continue. I'm really disappointed, because out of all of his books, this is the one that appealed to me the most. Also, I read The Year of Living Biblically by him and really enjoyed it. The problem with this is that it really does read like a condensed version of the Britannica. I expected it to be more interestin I can no longer force myself to read this. I started reading it in August and have only gotten 46% of the way through. It clearly isn't happening, and there is absolutely no reason to continue. I'm really disappointed, because out of all of his books, this is the one that appealed to me the most. Also, I read The Year of Living Biblically by him and really enjoyed it. The problem with this is that it really does read like a condensed version of the Britannica. I expected it to be more interesting and less dry, but in my opinion, it's really not. The main side story of his personal life is how him and his wife can't get pregnant, which is depressing and definitely does not help to lighten the mood of all the factoids vomited all over the pages. *SPOILER ALERT*-At least since I had read The Year of Living Biblically, I already knew that they do have a baby at some point. However, I think this might have actually detracted from that storyline for me. In other words, the \"interesting\" side story was also boring, because I already knew what was going to happen He tries to entertain to with his wit, which worked so well in TYOLB, and simply doesn't work in this one. It may be due to the fact that I am already familiar with his sense of humor, but I felt like he was trying way too hard to be funny, and failed to do so 9 times out of 10. I know this is harsh, but it's my honest opinion. I doubt I will read anything else by him. I am not willing to put myself through this again. ...more I picked up \u201cThe Know-it-All\u201d immediately after finishing Jacobs\u2019 more recent book, \u201cThe Year of Living Biblically\u201d. I really enjoyed \u201cBiblically\u201d, and figured what worked for the bible would work for the encyclopedia as well. In \u201cThe Know-it-All\u201d, Jacobs aspires (tongue-in-cheek) to become the smartest person in the world by reading every word in the Encyclopedia Britannica. Jacobs does a great job mixing quirky/interesting/funny stories retold from the encyclopedia with stories from his life du I picked up \u201cThe Know-it-All\u201d immediately after finishing Jacobs\u2019 more recent book, \u201cThe Year of Living Biblically\u201d. I really enjoyed \u201cBiblically\u201d, and figured what worked for the bible would work for the encyclopedia as well. In \u201cThe Know-it-All\u201d, Jacobs aspires (tongue-in-cheek) to become the smartest person in the world by reading every word in the Encyclopedia Britannica. Jacobs does a great job mixing quirky/interesting/funny stories retold from the encyclopedia with stories from his life during the attempt. Oddly enough, I enjoyed the facts from the encyclopedia more than the stories from Jacobs life. A few fun examples: Cats, \u201c\u2026 they often pretend to sleep when in reality they are meditating mischief\u201d. John Adams, \u201c\u2026 spent his old age enjoying his tankard of hard cider each morning before breakfast and rejoicing at the size of his manure pile.\u201d Flirty Fishing: a practice among hippy Christians in the sixties whose female members \u201c\u2026 spread the gospel by having sex with men.\u201d George III (probably my favorite) \u2013 \u201cThe British king ended his sentences rhetorically and fussily with the repeated words \u2018what, what, what?\u2019\u201d While I did chuckle quite a few times throughout the book, I found Jacobs\u2019 quest in \u201cThe Know-it-All\u201d considerably less endearing than in \u201cThe Year of Living Biblically\u201d. And while a search for knowledge is certainly not less honorable than a search for spirituality, in this case, it was less interesting. ...more (Reread in October 2015, because I wanted to. Review below is from my first read of the book.) Words cannot properly express how much I enjoyed reading this book. I read it not too long after reading Jacobs's A Year of Living Biblically, and I loved his writing style in both books. He's got a wonderful sense of humour, nicely balancing self-deprecation and personal anecdotes in a way that really allows you to get inside his head. This book is written in sections much like encyclopediae, with the t (Reread in October 2015, because I wanted to. Review below is from my first read of the book.) Words cannot properly express how much I enjoyed reading this book. I read it not too long after reading Jacobs's A Year of Living Biblically, and I loved his writing style in both books. He's got a wonderful sense of humour, nicely balancing self-deprecation and personal anecdotes in a way that really allows you to get inside his head. This book is written in sections much like encyclopediae, with the topic name and then Jacobs writing what he found so fascinating or weird about it, or an event in his life that related to the entry. It's obvious by his writing that he was a prolific note-taker, as some of the entries contain phrases like, \"I just read this,\" or \"as I read this,\" making the reader feel as though they're taking the epic challenge right alongside him. Aside from a humourous look at the acquisition of knowledge and one man's slightly demented quest to read all that, you can actually learn a lot, too. Most of the info you'll pick up from this book will be the sort of thing that you can dazzle your friends with of Trivia Night at the pub, but you come away from it feeling a little bit smarter, a little bit more knowledgeable. In my opinion, this book is well worth reading, and I highly recommend it. ...more I purchased this book as a birthday present for my husband. I mean, look at the title... It has his name on it! (Sorry hon, you know I mean well.) While reading the book my husband would share with me funny little tid-bits and upon completion, told me he thought I'd really enjoy it... Why? Because I'm a 'Know it All' too? No, that can't possibly be true! Anyway, this book is Great Fun! I know it sounds like the story of a guy recounting his foray into reading the entire library of Encyclopedia Br I purchased this book as a birthday present for my husband. I mean, look at the title... It has his name on it! (Sorry hon, you know I mean well.) While reading the book my husband would share with me funny little tid-bits and upon completion, told me he thought I'd really enjoy it... Why? Because I'm a 'Know it All' too? No, that can't possibly be true! Anyway, this book is Great Fun! I know it sounds like the story of a guy recounting his foray into reading the entire library of Encyclopedia Britannica from A-Z would be a veritable yawn fest, but this guy is FUNNY! Plus you learn little bits & pieces of Britannica trivia along the way without having to wade through all the exceedingly boring stuff... It's a win-win! ...more This was awesome! Kind of like a hilarious, abbreviated version of a set of encyclopedias! It's found under humor, but is sort of a memoir? The guy complains his brain is turning to mush because the only information he takes in lately is regarding pop-culture. Why can he name all the members of N'Sync, yet forgets major historical events? So he sets out on a quest for knowledge and commits to reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica. This book includes author-deemed high-points of the encycloped This was awesome! Kind of like a hilarious, abbreviated version of a set of encyclopedias! It's found under humor, but is sort of a memoir? The guy complains his brain is turning to mush because the only information he takes in lately is regarding pop-culture. Why can he name all the members of N'Sync, yet forgets major historical events? So he sets out on a quest for knowledge and commits to reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica. This book includes author-deemed high-points of the encyclopedias, as well as personal and hysterical commentary. ...more I expected more. I was one of those weird kids who actually read two different encyclopedias . Read one the summer after 5th grade and another in 7th grade. The 1st was the world book and I continued to read the update volumes until I went away to college. I expected less personal anecdotes and more interesting knowledge. A stimulating, fascinating read. This book will, in the least, teach you a thing or two. What makes it such a good read is the authors sense of humor and how he creates a story around this seemingly nonsensical quest to read the encyclopedia. Each chapter filled with useless facts, fun life applications and a good laugh or two. I thoroughly loved this book. A.J. Jacobs had me laughing out loud again. I love his awkwardness, his vulnerability and his ease at being able to constantly make fun of himself. I enjoyed his, \" The Year of Living Biblically,\" a bit better because I found the subject matter more interesting. But, this is still such a fun book. I loved this book! It is hilarious, made me laugh out load on many occasions! The author sets out to become the smartest man in the world with the help of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Yes, he read the entire encyclopedia from A to Z. Quite a reading challenge: 33,000 pages filled with 44 million words. Not as impressive as my reading of Mary Poppins from A to Z. There is an additional argument for the choice of his subject for the book. It is A.J. Jacob\u2019s one-way competition with his dad. His fat I loved this book! It is hilarious, made me laugh out load on many occasions! The author sets out to become the smartest man in the world with the help of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Yes, he read the entire encyclopedia from A to Z. Quite a reading challenge: 33,000 pages filled with 44 million words. Not as impressive as my reading of Mary Poppins from A to Z. There is an additional argument for the choice of his subject for the book. It is A.J. Jacob\u2019s one-way competition with his dad. His father wanted to read the Encyclopedia Britannica but never got to it because of his serious legal career and legal writing. Personally, I feel that A.J. Jacobs was simply on the look out for an original idea to write a bestselling book and he found it! He founded, and he executed it masterfully while working full time as an editor at large at Esquire magazine. He found the writing recipe that works for him and that is admirable! The books that he wrote after this one are all funny and all successfully sold and read. Here is a creative journalist with a great sense of humor! The book is composed of quirky, unusual facts taken from the Britannica and accompanied by A.J. Jacob\u2019s personal witty comments and anecdotes from his personal life and his experiments related to the subject. What I like the most about his writing projects is that not only do they involve tons and tons of reading but also experimentations with different things and activities, and meeting new people. Now, how exciting is that? For this book, obviously A.J. Jacobs spent most of his free time and some of his sleeping time reading the Encyclopedia Britannica. But during the 18 months of his reading challenge, he also attended a fast reading class and a memory training class, interviewed the host of Jeopardy, tried to get on Jeopardy but then ended up on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, went on a crossword convention with a friend, joined the Mensa society and went on one of their conventions and visited the offices of the Britannica in Chicago. He does seem to have remembered a lot of the facts he read. And then he probably kept notes as he went along, and wrote the frame of the book as a sort of a reading diary. I finished the book last week and I have already pretty much forgotten most of the facts he talks about but the book served its purpose of entertaining me and taking my thoughts away from some more serious matters. It was a refreshing break! ...more I loved this book about A.J. Jacobs' year of reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica. This is the third book I have read by Jacobs and each one has been a treat. He's funny, energetic, self-deprecating, intensely curious and willing to try everything. As a writer for Esquire magazine he once interviewed Alex Trebek and later decided to try out for \"Jeopardy\", only to learn that his contact with Trebek disqualified him for appearing on the show. Not to be thwarted, he then tried out for \"Who W I loved this book about A.J. Jacobs' year of reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica. This is the third book I have read by Jacobs and each one has been a treat. He's funny, energetic, self-deprecating, intensely curious and willing to try everything. As a writer for Esquire magazine he once interviewed Alex Trebek and later decided to try out for \"Jeopardy\", only to learn that his contact with Trebek disqualified him for appearing on the show. Not to be thwarted, he then tried out for \"Who Wants to be a Millionaire\" and was selected for the show. This was near the end of his year of reading the Encyclopedia so he went into the show well-prepared but lost early on and was understandably upset. But it makes for such an amusing story. The book is full of such side stories: meeting people who are reputed to have extraordinarily high IQs; joining Mensa and participating in their gatherings; meeting the editors of the encyclopedia. Upon finishing this book,I felt like my head was stuffed with new ideas that I will never retain, but a couple of interesting things I learned: capitonyms are words whose meaning changes on capitalizing the first letter, like Polish and polish; Herb and herb. Miranyms are words that come between opposites: for example the miranym of convex and concave is flat. His conclusion as he read the entire history of the world was more or less that things are not black and white: there's a whole lot of gray out there and some of the worst historical villains had some good qualities whereas some of our most heroic figures had some horrible habits. But the best part about the book is that I was laughing all the way from a to z. ...more I kept putting off reading this book even though I was told it was really good. I couldn't imagine how reading about a guy reading the Encyclopedia Britannica could be good, but it was! Jacobs intermingles the facts and concepts he reads about with lovely anecdotes about his family and friends. He also imparts a good amount of wisdom of his own in this book. I found myself literally laughing out loud a lot during the reading of this book and I was glad I wasn't reading it while on an airplane or I kept putting off reading this book even though I was told it was really good. I couldn't imagine how reading about a guy reading the Encyclopedia Britannica could be good, but it was! Jacobs intermingles the facts and concepts he reads about with lovely anecdotes about his family and friends. He also imparts a good amount of wisdom of his own in this book. I found myself literally laughing out loud a lot during the reading of this book and I was glad I wasn't reading it while on an airplane or in a public place because I could not stop myself from laughing. This was a really fun book to read. ...more The impetus for \u201creading\u201d this book was that I started reading another A.J. Jacobs book on Kindle: The Year of Living Biblically, and, at the time, the idea of reading the Encyclopedia Britannica appealed to me more than attempting to live a life of biblical literalism (as I \u201cread\u201d both of these books together, I am beginning to change my mind). As a cerebral nerd who loves to delve into epistemological debates, I was rather excited to read this journey into explicit knowledge. I should have sim The impetus for \u201creading\u201d this book was that I started reading another A.J. Jacobs book on Kindle: The Year of Living Biblically, and, at the time, the idea of reading the Encyclopedia Britannica appealed to me more than attempting to live a life of biblical literalism (as I \u201cread\u201d both of these books together, I am beginning to change my mind). As a cerebral nerd who loves to delve into epistemological debates, I was rather excited to read this journey into explicit knowledge. I should have simply read the Britannica myself (don\u2019t count this bucket list item out yet). I listened to this book on audio, so allow me get my critique of the narrator out of the way first. If you love to have your fun, light and acerbic non-fiction read to you in the tone, pitch and timbre of someone reading a 3 year old a story to keep their attention from wandering, this is the book for you. Geoffrey Cantor overdramatizes with the gusto of a last-minute nerve-wracked understudy taking over opening night at an amateur dinner theatre. He has outrageous accents in Bronx (I\u2019m guessing, I don\u2019t know the different borough accents that well), French, snooty Brit and various snotty and nerdy Americans (his Italian accent is abysmal). His portrayal of Jacobs partially contributes to my distaste of the author. Cantor\u2019s rendition of Jacobs goes from whiny and petty to simple-minded glee and exaggerated self-congratulation. The author may be none of these things, but it is difficult to tell from the narration. One hopes desperately that Eric, the brother-in-law, is a serious caricature, because if he\u2019s not\u2026no one needs that toxic narcissist in his or her life, no matter the family connection and level of cuteness of his kids. In fact, if the author is giving an anywhere near authentic sketch of Eric in this book, he\u2019s seriously fooling himself that Eric is a good father. No one is that much of a jerk (this is the most underwhelming noun that can be ascribed to Eric, but it\u2019s printable) and is truly good at parenting behind closed doors or after his kids become teenagers. Jacobs\u2019 use of the \u201cwitty\u201d rhetorical question becomes tiresome quickly. I use quotation marks here because, in truth, his comments and sarcastic humour are not sophisticated, but I ascribe that to his work as a popular men\u2019s magazine editor. He shouldn\u2019t be too cerebral\u2014no matter what he maintains as an encyclopedia reader\u2014or too \u201csmart\u201d that he loses the broader audience. I think this explains why the majority entries are that which I am already familiar\u2026that or since the writing of this book, mainstream information media (e.g. Mental Floss, Stuff You Missed in History Class) have decided to go over these topics. Anyone with a reasonable amount of education (either self-acquired or via an accredited university) will find the facts and trivia to be a cute re-tread. Even though he takes a very clunky approach for people who have more sophisticated senses of humour, he does tackle some sadly forgotten understandings and discriminations of intelligence, education, wisdom and talent. Unfortunately, the commentary is sophomore, at best, and the humour is predictable. Again, the narrator could be doing the author no favours, but mainly I found the anecdotes and analysis of Jacobs\u2019 journey into reading the Britannica to be twee, vacuous, and not-a-little lame. An example? Upon finding out that the bandicoot male and female have a doubling of coital organs, Jacobs states that these animals \u201ccan have a little orgy without sending out invitations.\u201d Thud. Perhaps I\u2019m being elitist. It\u2019s a fair cop, but I\u2019m not going to apologize for having a high standard of sardonic wit (or of esoteric knowledge). I do, however, read a lot of heavy, dense tomes and do appreciate light, fluid non-fiction book one in a while. Know It All is fair to middling. If you are interest in knowing what\u2019s it\u2019s like to try to learn this much explicit knowledge (as opposed to experiencing a priori or exploring tacit knowledge), I\u2019d recommend borrowing the book from the library. ...more In this book A.J. Jacobs reads the entire Encyclopedia Britannica from A- Z, in an attempt to become the smartest person alive. I can understand. I LOVED the encyclopedia when I was a kid. However, it was the World Book (with lots of pictures), and I didn't read it A-Z. I probably lingered on articles about cats and The Beatles way more than any about mathematical concepts or historical events. But still, I know what it's like to cuddle up with an encyclopedia for the evening, just like A.J. Ther In this book A.J. Jacobs reads the entire Encyclopedia Britannica from A- Z, in an attempt to become the smartest person alive. I can understand. I LOVED the encyclopedia when I was a kid. However, it was the World Book (with lots of pictures), and I didn't read it A-Z. I probably lingered on articles about cats and The Beatles way more than any about mathematical concepts or historical events. But still, I know what it's like to cuddle up with an encyclopedia for the evening, just like A.J. There are so many reasons why I love this author. In fact, I was thrilled to find that I share with him many strange neurotic behaviors, which I thought belonged solely to me (except for his germaphobia - my kid can lick the street and I won't bat an eyelash). FOR EXAMPLE: When he was in Jr. High school, he used to imagine that girls he had crushes on were watching him. Not just at school (where they ignored him), but at home, when he was alone in his bedroom. So he had to act cool, no matter what. Here is a secret about me: I always did the same thing. Actually, I still do. I imagine that someone is watching me when I am alone. Maybe it's my husband, my unborn children, girls who were mean to me in elementary school who would now be jealous of me, or maybe talent scouts. I do it on at least a semi-regular basis, especially when something cool happens to me and I want to rub it in the face of someone I used to know. Here is an example of me imagining that people were always watching me: In 7th grade, this super creepy 8th grader named Sam came up to me at my locker and said, \"Abby. I hope you know that I took the time to write you a note.\" I said, \"Oh.\" And he handed me a folded up note and walked off. He had a tone of voice like we were having a big fight, but in reality we never talked. We were in the same math class, and I think he thought we were friends because I didn't make fun of him to his face like everyone else did. (I'm not proud of this time in my life, but he seriously was very creepy.) As of late, I had been making less eye contact in class, and the teacher had rearranged the seating chart so I no longer sat by him. I think he figured we were having a lover's spat. Well, I was walking down the hall to my last period with the note in hand. I thought, \"What would a totally cool girl do?\" and I imagined the whole school was watching me. I acted very cool and tossed his note straight into the trash without reading it. Oh, if I could only go back in time and change that moment! I have always wondered what was in that note. Me and creepy Sam never spoke again the rest of the year. Fast forward to my junior year in high school. We STILL have not spoken since that 7th grade moment, and he is still kind of creepy. However, I have grown up enough to realize that I don't have to shun him. He is in a photography class, and I am a photography T.A. (although not for his class). One day, I suddenly see him around the corner from the dark room, doing some make up work. I stand on the other side of the wall, debating whether or not I should walk to him and say, \"Sam! How you doing? I know we haven't talked in years and all, but I accidentally lost a note you gave me back in 7th grade, and I have always meant to ask you what it said.\" But no matter how many times I tried to figure out a casual way to ask, it didn't sound right. So I chickened out and went back to the classroom. #1 regret of my life: Throwing away that note from Sam in 7th grade. #2 regret of my life: Chickening out my junior year and not asking Sam what was in that note. Dear God, can you help me meet Sam at the grocery store sometime? I just have a very important little question to ask him. Also, it would help if you could make him less creepy so that I don't chicken out. Thanks! ...more A.J. Jacobs, a worried Jewish (but not practicing) man who is trying desperately to have a baby with his wife, decides to embark upon the great challenge of reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica. Along the way he tracks down incredibly smart people, visits the Britannica offices, and tries to get on to Who Wants To Be a Millionaire. He throws in interesting tidbits from his reading. My children are not fans of cats so I thought they would appreciate this entry: \"Of all domestic animals, the A.J. Jacobs, a worried Jewish (but not practicing) man who is trying desperately to have a baby with his wife, decides to embark upon the great challenge of reading the entire Encyclopedia Britannica. Along the way he tracks down incredibly smart people, visits the Britannica offices, and tries to get on to Who Wants To Be a Millionaire. He throws in interesting tidbits from his reading. My children are not fans of cats so I thought they would appreciate this entry: \"Of all domestic animals, the character of the cat is the most equivocal and suspicious. He is kept, not for any amiable qualities, but purely with a view to banish rats, mice and other noxious animals from our houses...Constantly bent upon theft and rapine, they are full of cunning and dissimulation; they conceal all their designs; seize every opportunity of doing mischief, and then fly from punishment..In a word, the cat is totally destitute of friendship.\" 79 I also enjoyed learning about how Jack and Jill is actually an extended allegory about taxes (early forms of measurement in early England). Charles I scaled down the jack to collect higher sales tax (jill). I also enjoyed this quote by Robert Ardrey: But we were born of risen apes, not fallen angels, and the apes were armed killers besides. And so what shall we wonder at? Our murders and massacres and missiles, and our irreconcilable regiments? Or our treaties whatever they may be worth; our symphonies however seldom they may be played; our peaceful acres, however frequently they may be converted into battlefields; our dreams however rarely they may be accomplished. The miracle of man is not how far he has sunk but how magnificently he has risen. We are known among the stars by our poems, not our corpses. 259 ...more<---C>A.J. Jacobs</---C><+++>The Know-It-All: One Man's Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World</+++>", "Title": "The Know-It-All: One Man's Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World"},
