{"Comments": "Everyone loves Sir Terry.<---F> I love Sir Terry</---F>. I love the books & have great respect for the man. This review is simply my opinion of the success of this particular collaboration. I'll be 1st in line for the next T.P book and I'd even give T.P + S.B another go. From the slew of 4 & 5* reviews already on show I may be out on a limb on this one - so don't listen to me - give it a try. ------------- Collaboration. It\u2019s a word with an unfortunate aftertaste. Collaborators get a bad rap. Sir Terry Everyone loves Sir Terry. I love Sir Terry. I love the books & have great respect for the man. This review is simply my opinion of the success of this particular collaboration. I'll be 1st in line for the next T.P book and I'd even give T.P + S.B another go. From the slew of 4 & 5* reviews already on show I may be out on a limb on this one - so don't listen to me - give it a try. ------------- Collaboration. It\u2019s a word with an unfortunate aftertaste. Collaborators get a bad rap. Sir <---A>Terry Pratchett</---A>\u2019s collaborations with other notable authors have been limited. In 1990 we saw Good Omens, produced with Neil Gaiman. On the crest of that success Pratchett found another partner in Larry Niven but this effort floundered with Niven producing Rainbow Mars in 1999 as a solo work built upon some of their shared ideas. And now 2012 sees <+++>The Long Earth</+++>, a collaboration with Stephen Baxter. The accompanying promotion contains a photo of the two grandees locked in combat before a laden bookshelf. A certain degree of dynamic tension does help in collaborative writing,<---M> too little and you get compromise writing</---M>, too much and it\u2019s never going to get finished. I think here both men were pulling punches and the pages could have benefited from a good blooding! Collaborations can be port and stilton good, or marmite and custard bad. I suspect it\u2019s impossible for two fine writers like Baxter and Pratchett to serve up anything wholly unpalatable, but the Long Earth feels long, although it is short, and is decidedly blah. Think porridge. <+++>The Long Earth</+++> is science fiction. In science fiction the IDEA tends to overshadow the characters and even the story. Here the IDEA has flattened both. Glimpses of story and character may be seen poking out from the margins of the IDEA, vital juices pooling. You can\u2019t see much but you can see enough to know you don\u2019t need an ambulance. The Terry Pratchett of Discworld fame has not shown up to this party. There\u2019s rarely a smile in The Long Earth, and never a laugh. The idea explored is that Earth sits in one of an infinity of parallel universes and that these become opened up to humanity such that pretty much everyone can step through them like moving from one card to the next in a deck of cards. We get to hear a lot about the impact this has on humanity, both social and economic. Sometimes we hear this from characters who pop up and are not heard of again, giving the book a disjointed feel. Of the hundreds of thousands of Earths open to Joe Public almost all are Earth as it would have been without us. A lot of time is spent detailing minor evolutionary variations in the flora and fauna, to the point where you just don\u2019t care about one more slightly smaller elephant or slightly uglier crocodile. A lot of time is spent hopping from one forest world to the next. It\u2019s an idea that is interesting in a paragraph but becomes increasingly dull over 300 pages. The writing, line by line, is fine. It lacks trade-mark Pratchett sharpness but it does the job. The story arching over chapters is . . . not gripping. There\u2019s essentially no tension in it. Our heroes (a young man who is very good at moving through the worlds, and an artificial intelligence named Lobsang) are exploring, they don\u2019t have any clear goals stated, nothing is after them, they have no serious problems, they don\u2019t appear worried or even to care that much, and thus as a reader one tends to a similar disposition. The book ends with a bang, but it\u2019s a rather ineffectual one that is, like the bulk of the book, hard to care about. I\u2019m a fan of Sir Terry\u2019s work and I applaud his willingness to experiment with new styles and new writing partners. I hope he keeps doing it. I cannot though, hand on heart say I enjoyed this book. Not even a little. Edit: RIP Sir Terry - you left us many great books to remember you by. ...more \"The next world is the thickness of a thought away.\" This co-authored book (Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter) is a wonderful idea, lovingly executed. The Long Earth refers to the discovery of infinite dimensions all next door to one another. When a scientist publishes the blueprint for a \"stepper\" - a device that can allow you to step from Earth to the next dimension (Earth 1) and from there onto the next Earth (Earth 2) and the next - online free for all to use, in order to thwart a greedy corp \"The next world is the thickness of a thought away.\" This co-authored book (Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter) is a wonderful idea, lovingly executed. The Long Earth refers to the discovery of infinite dimensions all next door to one another. When a scientist publishes the blueprint for a \"stepper\" - a device that can allow you to step from Earth to the next dimension (Earth 1) and from there onto the next Earth (Earth 2) and the next - online free for all to use, in order to thwart a greedy corporation's attempt to capitalize on it... it changes the world. The device, so simple any kid could make it - and powered by a common potato - soon leads to hundreds of thousands if not millions of people \"stepping\" over into other dimensions to make new lives for themselves. At first, it seems as if these other Earths are uninhabited. But eventually animal life is found, animal life that is wildly different than the ones that evolved on Datum Earth (the Earth we know). When Joshua, an orphaned man who was raised by nuns, is signaled out by a new AI to explore the Infinite Earth, he can't resist the chance to explore hundreds of thousands of dimensions away from Datum Earth. But there are plenty of surprises waiting for him, not all of them friendly... ... POSITIVE: - This book is so innovative and so lovingly rendered you can't help but enjoy it, even a little bit, even against your best efforts. Pratchett and Baxter create wild, imaginative worlds that are so similar and yet so amazingly different than the one we know that our minds are blown. Here's an Earth where the dinosaurs were NOT wiped out. Here's an Earth where elephants developed chameleon-like camouflage powers. Here's a world where the moon never came into existence. Hundreds of thousands of worlds, hundreds of thousands of ways for Pratchett and Baxter to stretch their imagination. Beautiful and exciting, like when you saw Jurassic Park for the first time. With the intricacy and thrills of visceral environment, as in Annihilation . Very creative wildlife and (view spoiler) [other sentient beings which have evolved. (hide spoiler) ] Just super-innovative and pure imagination-candy. - Baxter is into some ugly stuff. Pratchett's little comedic touches only heighten the creepiness, in my mind. It's a creepy world/concept to begin with, and Pratchett's little quirky threads were icing on the cake for me. - (view spoiler) [Talking (hide spoiler) ] robotic AI cat who catches mice, stores them in her tummy, and releases them into the wild. - Two lesbian characters (separate, NOT in a couple with each other). - (view spoiler) [The authors resist making Joshua fall in love with or have sex with any of the females, Sally and Helen. (hide spoiler) ] I'm very thankful for this. - Interesting concept about how no one can travel with iron. I, of course, immediately thought: Fairies. Of course they can't travel to other dimensions with iron. Fairies hate iron. P&B give a more scientific explanation for why iron won't travel - something about it being the most stable element - but I still believe it has to do with fairies and it IS actually possible that I may be correct. (We'll see...) - Reminiscent of the novel The Time Machine . I wasn't surprised to learn that Baxter had penned a sequel to that famous book. - Good philosophical and moral questions are raised. NEUTRAL: - As in many recent science-fiction novels, hard plug and sell for NASA and NASA funding. - As in many science fiction novels, a cat and moreover (view spoiler) [ a talking, AI cat. (hide spoiler) ] - Very common \"X-Men\"-type subplot which involves people who are not mutated able to step being very angry and calling to stop and even kill all mutants steppers. Even though it makes no logical sense since they will be having mutant stepper children and grandchildren and they are a minority at 20% of the population. - Oh, Joshua is the \"Chosen One\" with \"Special Abilities\" and by the way, his mom died when she was 15 giving birth to him and no one knows who his father is and he was raised by nuns. YOU KNOW. Typical hero origin. - Some kind of message or statement about the U.K. that P&B are making, and I'm pretty sure it's not a flattering one. However, as an American I can not quite understand what they are getting at. Perhaps a British reader would be better equipped to unpack P&B's message here. NEGATIVE: - As in many science fiction novels penned by older white males, a propensity to show you are \"progressive\" by having homosexual characters, and by that I mean \"lesbians.\" No gay men anywhere to be found. Because, you know. That would be 'icky.' Still can't believe this shit. - Also says stuff like the female MC was \"never lovelier than when she was blowing her top\" and this \"she's so pretty when she's angry, let's purposefully piss her off, LOL\" shit is just so male-author. - Vignettes. P&B tell a LOT of little vignettes and short stories throughout the book. Don't get too attached to the characters in the short stories, or expect them to show up ever again. They are mainly dropped in here and there to prove points. - No follow-through. There are a lot of insidious, suspicious avenues that P&B open that are not resolved and just kind of fizzle out. Right off the top of my head, I would say (view spoiler) [ the instability and possible evilness of Lobsang, the unsettled and disturbed feeling Joshua gets from Happy Landings, and the growing evilness of Mr. Henry. (hide spoiler) ] - Not very good characterization. I'm especially thinking of Sally (view spoiler) [ above all, her apparent envy of Joshua that sprung out of nowhere at the end, leaving my shaking my head in confusion (hide spoiler) ] and the whole subplot regarding Rod Green and his (view spoiler) [ anger and subsequent terrorist acts as a result of his family's abandonment. I also needed some more insight into how and why his family so easily abandoned him completely and totally; and also more insight into how exactly that led him to terrorism. (hide spoiler) ] Character development is not a high point in this novel. If you are looking for good emotional explaining and psychological insights into the characters' thoughts and actions... you will be very disappointed. Tl;dr - Bright, imaginative, and full of promise: the book has four sequels, the last one expected to be published this year. However, this IS scattered with sci-fi tropes, and I should warn you that characterization and plotline follow-through is hazy and sometimes non-existent. I will definitely be reading the next books. Not as good as books like Annihilation , Nexus or vN , but definitely satisfying and stunning in its own way. R.I.P. Terry Pratchett. Earths, untold Earths. More Earths than could be counted, some said. And all you had to do was walk sideways into them, one after the next, an unending chain. ...more The main thing that made me interested in reading this would be the promising premise. It offered a million possibilities, and I was not disappointed. While the novel was not perfect, it was still an amazing novel that promises even more exciting things to come in the next novels in the series. Embarrassingly I haven't read any of the Discworld novels of Pratchett, and none of Baxter's novels too. While anything space related has caught my interest ever since i was young, I haven't invested mysel The main thing that made me interested in reading this would be the promising premise. It offered a million possibilities, and I was not disappointed. While the novel was not perfect, it was still an amazing novel that promises even more exciting things to come in the next novels in the series. Embarrassingly I haven't read any of the Discworld novels of Pratchett, and none of Baxter's novels too. While anything space related has caught my interest ever since i was young, I haven't invested myself in reading Hard-Sci-Fi before this. Lately while browsing through goodreads though, I always get a feeling of wanting to read a good Sci-Fi book. I finally decided to pick this one up, because it's the most interesting one in my bookshelf. The premise didn't disappoint, and the novel has a great story. It's about the possibility of countless earths, and the repercussions of having such possibility. I really enjoy speculative fiction, or anything speculative to be concise. As a Sci-Fi fan, I have a very colorful imagination. The possibility of other earths at a reach of a step is beyond interesting. I'm glad that there are 2 more books in the series because I really want to know more of it. I know that this first novel is aimed to be an introduction to the idea of stepping, so hopefully the next ones would offer a more vivid narration of the said possibility. The characters are well developed and filled with humor. Joshua Valiente is the perfect main character, as he possessed wit and humor. The character of Lobsang would normally annoy me, but Pratchett managed to make me like that humor filled robot. (view spoiler) [ Sally was also a really great addition to the team. She helped Joshua develop more into a round character. (hide spoiler) ] 4/5 stars. There were dull moments in the middle, but I'm still very impressed with this novel. A really satisfying first read of Pratchett and Baxter. I can't wait to read more hard sci-fi novels of the mentioned authors and also vintage/classic ones like Dick, Clarke, Reynolds, and more. Highly recommended. ...more I really wanted to like this book. Turns out I liked parts of it. The idea of millions of Earths branching out from ours--a variation on different choices creating different realities--is pretty cool, as is the mechanism by which people reach them. Pratchett and Baxter gave a lot of thought to how the Earth might have developed differently under different circumstances, such as the lack of a moon altering tides and climate or even failing to deflect large asteroids from the planet. I also liked I really wanted to like this book. Turns out I liked parts of it. The idea of millions of Earths branching out from ours--a variation on different choices creating different realities--is pretty cool, as is the mechanism by which people reach them. Pratchett and Baxter gave a lot of thought to how the Earth might have developed differently under different circumstances, such as the lack of a moon altering tides and climate or even failing to deflect large asteroids from the planet. I also liked the vignettes interspersed with the main plot, about how the discovery of Stepping affected ordinary people. The characters were charming and the aliens were interesting, if not particularly original. Unfortunately, what should have been the high point of the story fell flat. The mystery of who or what they're going to find at the far end of the Long Earth grows increasingly suspenseful--and then the answer is...sort of blah. The reason for the disaster that's driving the aliens inward toward our Earth, the origin Earth, is in fact disastrous, but doesn't feel disastrous--and it's dispensed with too easily, no sacrifice (literally none, as the last sentence of the book proves) and no payoff. I was more dissatified with the social ramifications the authors believed would arise from this situation: 1. Supposedly, Stepping off to new and untamed wildernesses means the economy of Datum Earth (the main world) would start to collapse. That's sort of true in the sense that if you remove enough of any vital material from an economy, it will destabilize. But the historical example of the depopulation that happened because of the Plague in the 14th century says that not only will the economy restabilize, it can do so in a way that improves the lives of the survivors. Since it's impossible to bring anything made of iron into the other Earths, the people who stay behind get to keep all the resources of civilization. And since the authors also argue that violence and crime are almost entirely caused by overpopulation, wouldn't that mean that Datum Earth would see a similar drop in crime when the poverty-stricken rise out of poverty? 2. Except I don't actually buy the whole \"crime is caused by competition for resources\" thing. People kill for a lot of reasons that don't have anything to do with theft, and even if you look at one person killing another to take the second person's mate as competition for resources, it only takes three people for that to happen. The utopian settlements of the Long Earth come off, to me, as more of a social statement than a realistic possibility--a given outcome, based on assumptions that they didn't try to prove. Overall, it was enjoyable once, but not a book I'd want to read again. ...more A did not finish read. I think, in its way, this could be regarded as a form of apocalyptica. A device allowing easy jumping to countless alternate worlds (conveniently free of human populations) is invented. Many people embrace this passionately, and rush off to stake their claim in a 'land rush' with no visible end game. A small percentage can't go and others don't want to, but the effect of this mass dispersal is economies collapsing, new religions, fighting among old religions. It's a book ab A did not finish read. I think, in its way, this could be regarded as a form of apocalyptica. A device allowing easy jumping to countless alternate worlds (conveniently free of human populations) is invented. Many people embrace this passionately, and rush off to stake their claim in a 'land rush' with no visible end game. A small percentage can't go and others don't want to, but the effect of this mass dispersal is economies collapsing, new religions, fighting among old religions. It's a book about global change. The book doesn't focus on a single person, showing us the experiences of a half-dozen or so, and headhops through a bunch more, but the primary character is Joshua, one of the first to hop, and also a natural hopper, able to travel without the device. He's an orphan, and inclined to be a major loner, and in part his progression involves finding someone he might want to travel with. The book didn't work for me in a number of different ways. The prose scales the pinnacles of beige. The plot is leaden and there's little sense of wonder, of individuals overcoming adversity, or awe or delight. But the biggest problem is Joshua, who is Super Special and Innately Superior to Everyone, so much more in connection with the natural world, so superior in his reactions to the other worlds, so much better a logical thinker, so better able to cope. People keep telling him that, so we can be sure it's not just his opinion. He is full of a combination of disdain and dislike for almost everyone he encounters, and is also a Famous Hero. When the (strangely enormous number of) children in his neighbourhood who simultaneously decided they wanted to follow some guy on the internet's suggestion they figure out how to solder some wires into a circuit and jab them into a potato, he told them that, hey, maybe you should try turning the switch the Other Direction. Genius! Joshua is extremely unlikeable, and few other characters distinguish themselves in any way. I liked the female police officer a bit, but 20% in I had no Cares left in me and flipped to the end to see whether this was going anywhere interesting. And the answer to that was nowhere unexpected. ...more \u201cIt is hard for scientists even to talk about the Long Earth without babbling about m-brane manifolds and quantum multiverses.\u201d It would be hard for Stephen Baxter to resist waxing lyrical about quantum whatsits I suppose. I read his Xeelee omnibus and only understood half of the science expositions (and that is an optimistic estimate). However, with The Long Earth Baxter has the late great Terry Pratchett to help make the science part more palatable and also infuse the novel with the magic of hi \u201cIt is hard for scientists even to talk about the Long Earth without babbling about m-brane manifolds and quantum multiverses.\u201d It would be hard for Stephen Baxter to resist waxing lyrical about quantum whatsits I suppose. I read his Xeelee omnibus and only understood half of the science expositions (and that is an optimistic estimate). However, with The Long Earth Baxter has the late great Terry Pratchett to help make the science part more palatable and also infuse the novel with the magic of his wit, characterization, and of course, humour. I have not read the Baxter & Clarke collaborations yet (coming soon), but they seem to be very like-minded gentlemen, and while I look forward to reading some mind blowing super science from their books I think the pairing with Pratchett seems like a much more dynamic combination; two very different talents that beautifully complement each other. The Long Earth is basically about parallel worlds, more specifically parallel Earths. This is hardly a new sci-fi conceit but this book\u2014first in a series of five\u2014 explores more of the possibilities, ramifications, and science than other parallel universe books I have read. In The Long Earth , a scientist invents a simple device that enables the user to step into a parallel Earth, in the dimension adjacent to ours, also the next adjacent one, on and on presumably infinitely. \u201cEarths, untold Earths. More Earths than could be counted, some said. And all you had to do was walk sideways into them, one after the next, an unending chain.\u201d The Stepper schematic (powered by a potato!) The design and circuitry of the \u201cStepper\u201d device are shared on the internet and immediately becomes a worldwide sensation. As millions of people migrate to an alternate Earth, there is suddenly plenty of room and resources for everyone. This puts an end to scarcity, overpopulation and even poverty. The narrative is mostly focused on the adventures of Joshua Valient\u00e9 and an AI entity called Lobsang across \u201cthe Long Earth\u201d (the term for all the parallel Earths). They are later joined by a woman called Sally Linsay. Joshua and Sally are \u201cnatural steppers\u201d who can travel without a Stepper device, as for Lobsang, there is very little he can not do. Beside this major story arc, the narrative occasionally switches to a young girl called Helen Green who has migrated to an alternate Earth to set up a colony with her family. There is also a small plot strand about a policewoman called Monica Jansson who is keeping an eye on malcontents who are unable to travel to a parallel Earth due to some innate disability. All the story threads are good, but the main story arc with Joshua and Lobsang is the most epic, as they travel further from \u201cDatum Earth\u201d (our Earth) than anyone else and discover all kinds of strange life forms and discover a danger that threatens every single iteration of Earth. I remember when The Long Earth came out in 2012 there were many readers who expressed their disappointment with the book. That is why I am reading it now five years later. I have to say this book is a blast, very enjoyable and imaginative. I suspect many of the people who are disappointed with it are die-hard Discworld fans. The Long Earth is very different in tone from a typical Discworld book in that humour is not placed at the front and center of the narrative, it is not even a major component. The emphasis is here is on adventures, colonization, pioneering and exploration; basically The Long Earth is a romp. The wit and charm of Terry Pratchett\u2019s prose and characterization are there in abundance, coupled with Stephen Baxter\u2019s hard sci-fi inventiveness. I have speculated that some Terry Pratchett\u2019s fans may be disappointed by the emphasis on adventures rather than humour, but what about Stephen Baxter\u2019s fans? Well, there is less emphasis on science also, much less than you would find in a solo Baxter book. This is conceivably disappointing for hardcore hard sci-fi fans who probably enjoy Baxter\u2019s normal detailed quantum physics expositions. However, for me, there is just the right amount of science to make the story plausible and fascinating. This collaboration is a synergistic success and I think Baxter is very lucky to have the opportunity to work with Pratchett for five books, and I think sci-fi fans are lucky that these two excellent gentlemen decided to combine forces. I am looking forward to reading the rest of this series. Notes: \u2022 Video interview: Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter on The Long Earth \u2022 Sir Terry Pratchett 1948-2015: an appreciation by Stephen Baxter - a wonderful article. Quotes: \u201cOh, there are certainly others smarter than you, they are stacked high in the universities achieving little or nothing. But smart has to have a depth as well as a length. Some smart brushes over a problem. And some smart grinds exceeding slow, like the mills of God, and it grinds fine, and when it comes up with an answer, it has been tested.\u201d \u2018You know I crapped my pants in the course of the engagement.\u2019 \u2018Should I think less of you for that? Throughout the animal kingdom, it has always made good sense to jettison the cargo in a threatening situation.\u2019 \u201cA smiley, he thought: one curve and two dots, and you see a human face. What was the minimum you needed to see a human being? What has to be said, what has to be laughed?\u201d \u201cIt was once said of an English politician that if you kicked him in the butt not a muscle would move on his face until he had decided what to do about it.\u201d ...more You know how famous authors will occasionally complain about how readers will come up to them at cons and tell them that they have this amazing idea for a book; the author should write the reader's idea, and then they can split the money. The moral to this kind of story is always that this is a ridiculously ignorant concept--ideas are easy, it's execution that's hard. This is a novel in which two extremely prolific authors forgot this. Well, to be honest, calling this a \"novel\" strikes me as gene You know how famous authors will occasionally complain about how readers will come up to them at cons and tell them that they have this amazing idea for a book; the author should write the reader's idea, and then they can split the money. The moral to this kind of story is always that this is a ridiculously ignorant concept--ideas are easy, it's execution that's hard. This is a novel in which two extremely prolific authors forgot this. Well, to be honest, calling this a \"novel\" strikes me as generous. There are some people in it; I've seen ten page short stories that featured more memorable characters with better developed arcs. Some things happen, but they're not really so much a plot as just some events, with some slightly bigger events kinda near the end that don't actually resolve anything. There are settings--oh, so many settings. But while each one has the potential to be a thought experiment, in actuality, each one receives a brief description and no development. Most role-playing supplements do a better job of creating intriguing worlds. More than anything else, this feels like a novel-length list of ideas for a forty book series, each of which could be developed into a story but hasn't been yet. The book concludes with a note that the story begins in Madison, WI, because the authors were there for a con and so could do research. I would have guessed that they looked at Google Maps for five minutes, for all the individuality the Madison setting displays. Umm, there's a government building. And some cafes. And I think there was a lake or something. This is a terrible thing to say, but I'm kind of hoping that Pratchett only agreed to this because he was worried about having enough money for his medical care and was hoping he could get a couple bucks more for his heirs out of this. I have more to rant about, in far more specificity--from the incredible lameness of the ending to the number of issues raised and then never resolved to various gaping plot holes to the sheer number of potentially interesting ideas that are somehow presented in a way that make them completely uninteresting and then dropped. Because honestly, this book pissed me off in its incredible waste of potential. But you know what? It's not actually worth anyone's time. Mine to write them, or yours to read them. And certainly it's not worth your time to read the book itself. ...more I did not expect that much going into this book, I was just hoping for a fun fluffy read. I borrowed it from the library, so the worst case scenario was returning it unfinished. But I was surprised and delighted by this novel and I'm jumping right into the next book. In a plot that you may feel has been done to death, a mad scientist disappears and leaves instructions to build a stepping device on the internet. Kids throughout the world make a copy and end up travelling into a parallel world. It I did not expect that much going into this book, I was just hoping for a fun fluffy read. I borrowed it from the library, so the worst case scenario was returning it unfinished. But I was surprised and delighted by this novel and I'm jumping right into the next book. In a plot that you may feel has been done to death, a mad scientist disappears and leaves instructions to build a stepping device on the internet. Kids throughout the world make a copy and end up travelling into a parallel world. It seems that there are multiple Earth's all lined up and you can either travel in one direction or another, named East or West to a parallel Earth. Hasn't this been done before? Yes. Has it been done like this? My argument is no. Anyone who knows my taste in books knows that I appreciate the info-dump. I appreciate a great amount of detail as long as it is fascinating. And that is what you get here. I also appreciate thought experiments that explore the implications of scenarios to the best of their ability. I have hot it recently with Locke and Key and The Fifteen Lives of Henry August. This novel explores the implications of these parallel Earth's and throws in some great ideas. There is not too much of a plot at all, and I see this reflected in the bad reviews on here. This is a book that explores ideas rather than human relationships. I'm going to probably get some gasps at this statement: I don't really enjoy Terry Pratchett's humour. I've read a handful of Discworld novels and they are slightly entertaining, but I liken them to candy floss. Sweet, but forgettable. No sustenance. and the humour can be laid on a bit thick. Yes, Sir Terry I understood you are trying to be witty and intelligent. I was prepared for a bit of that here, but it is very toned down. There is some zaniness in parts, but it is all explained within the system, it never feels zany for the sake of zany. So a 4 star read for me, and probably any other nerd who loves info-dumps and big ideas. People looking for plot and character development can stick to the annual prize-winners. ...more I finished The Long Earth yesterday, and came to see what others thought, and in many respects I agree; The Long Earth has an incredibly novel premise, but a storyline that in the end, doesn't really go anywhere (no pun intended). The book essentially offers a thought exercise of what would happen if relatively unlimited inter-planetary (or more correctly, inter-dimensional) travel were available to the masses on Earth. What would people do? Would there be a mass exodus? Would people try to explo I finished The Long Earth yesterday, and came to see what others thought, and in many respects I agree; The Long Earth has an incredibly novel premise, but a storyline that in the end, doesn't really go anywhere (no pun intended). The book essentially offers a thought exercise of what would happen if relatively unlimited inter-planetary (or more correctly, inter-dimensional) travel were available to the masses on Earth. What would people do? Would there be a mass exodus? Would people try to exploit this travel for their own gain or exploiting others? How would it affect the economy of Earth and the people who remained? What would remain valuable and what wouldn't? Would governments remain intact? So many questions and fascinating to think about. Unfortunately, the storyline that is the vehicle for this premise is not quite as strong. I won't go into it much as it would spoil things, but I felt rather unfulfilled at the end. I was sure that this coming terror would have been much more metaphysical and not so...meh. All in all, I would still highly recommend this just to change the way you think, if only a little. =) oh...and I really want a t-shirt that says \"Don't worry! On another Earth it already happened\" like Joshua. ...more Those poor French. You lose to Spain at the Euro and Terry Pratchett takes an accurate pot shot at you in this book. C'est la vie. I'm unsure to give this three or four stars. I really am. I didn't quite really like it, but I didn't just like it. I went with four because it is my default when I read such a book and it makes me think. The idea behind this book will be slightly familiar to those who watched Sliders or who have read comic books. The twist is that most people can step to the words eith Those poor French. You lose to Spain at the Euro and Terry Pratchett takes an accurate pot shot at you in this book. C'est la vie. I'm unsure to give this three or four stars. I really am. I didn't quite really like it, but I didn't just like it. I went with four because it is my default when I read such a book and it makes me think. The idea behind this book will be slightly familiar to those who watched Sliders or who have read comic books. The twist is that most people can step to the words either by natural talent or with a device that is readily availble. There is a small minority of humanity that can't do this. The thing is, unlike Sliders or comic book, Baxter and Pratchett really look at what this would mean to politics, family, and economy. This is the best writing of the book (and give rise to the shot at the French). It is this ascept that really gets your to think. The down side is that there is another plot involing Joshua and his employer (who really is from Discworld) who are travelling the multiple earths. In some ways, this feels like a quest in search of a plot. And while it allows for wonderful Geekdom references that any Sci-Fi fan will love, I actually wanted to follow the minor characters more because they were most intersting. Though I loved the cat digression. The book jacket hints that this will be the first in the series (the ending is slightly cliffhangerish. It can go either way). If that is true, this book than seems more of a door opening world building to allow the two gentleman too play more (which would be great). The writing styles do seem to merge, there are flashes of Pratchett wit, though no footnotes - but this is a collarbortion not a straight Pratchett. But I enjoyed Baxter's Mammoth series, and after this book, I think I'll try some more by Baxter. ...more This was quite the infuriating book to end up enjoying. A strange blend of young adult and science fiction written for the novice and almost as many pop culture references as Ernest Cline. If I'd only been informed in advance to expect a young adult novel I would have been less annoyed, Pratchett has written some of the very best YA there is, but as it stands this is apparently a book for adults. Stephen Baxter has written some of the most complex science fiction I've ever picked up let alone re This was quite the infuriating book to end up enjoying. A strange blend of young adult and science fiction written for the novice and almost as many pop culture references as Ernest Cline. If I'd only been informed in advance to expect a young adult novel I would have been less annoyed, Pratchett has written some of the very best YA there is, but as it stands this is apparently a book for adults. Stephen Baxter has written some of the most complex science fiction I've ever picked up let alone read and to witness such feats of imagination and imagination stirring ideas watered down in to the fluff contained within these pages was incredibly disappointing. The constant referring to films and the references to the blogging and wikipedia and dead tree technology etc. also felt completely arbitrary, the kind of thing that will immediately date this book unlike the work Asimov and Heinlein et al that The Long Earth is seemingly trying to emulate. Don't get me started on the absurdity of two great English storytellers choosing to set their story in America which can only be seen as a crass attempt to shift units in my opinion. But still, these complaints aside, this is a decent piece of science fiction writing by two natural born storytellers, it isn't bad it is just a disappointment. If I hadn't discovered science fiction before this I just might have become a convert overnight thanks to the imagination firing that takes places during Joshua's quest. My frustration extends to the denouement which after 400+ pages felt more than a bit rushed and anticlimactic followed by a tacked on set up for a sequel. Yes I wanted another several hundred pages but an ending which justified the journey would also have been appreciated. ...more Simple concept, brilliantly executed. This was my first non-discworld Pratchett and my first Baxter and between the two of them they put together an excellent novel. The premise behind The Long Earth is a fairly simple one at first glance - there are multiple universes parallel to our own and with the aid of a stepper you can move from one to the next in a \"linear\" fashion. Easy concept, but as with most things, the devil is in the details. On each Earth, evolution has taken a slightly different Simple concept, brilliantly executed. This was my first non-discworld Pratchett and my first Baxter and between the two of them they put together an excellent novel. The premise behind The Long Earth is a fairly simple one at first glance - there are multiple universes parallel to our own and with the aid of a stepper you can move from one to the next in a \"linear\" fashion. Easy concept, but as with most things, the devil is in the details. On each Earth, evolution has taken a slightly different path. This leads to all manner of interesting animals and species as well as the occasional \"joker\" Earth. The ideas presented as some of the characters travel across the Long Earth are fascinating and provide lots of food for thought. There are also some physical elements that you can't carry from one Earth to another. As such, the value of various metals and minerals either increases or decreases depending on the new availability and scarcity of each. The impact on the original Earth, called Datum Earth are fascinating. Who steps off to explore new worlds? Who stays on this familiar world? Who finds new ways to exploit this new discovery to make more money? What are the repercussions? The main characters are great, the writing is engaging and interesting, and the story full of interesting ideas that will keep you thinking for a long time after you've put down this book. ...more One day, humanity discovers they can \"step\" from our world into parallel worlds. Each of these other Earths is slightly different from the next--but humans exist on no other world but our own. Humans immediately start stepping into other worlds to explore and create new homes. Resources and space are no longer scarce; old hierarchies start breaking down. Joshua Valiente is a natural Stepper, someone who can jump from one world to the next without any ill effects. And so the first AI to be declare One day, humanity discovers they can \"step\" from our world into parallel worlds. Each of these other Earths is slightly different from the next--but humans exist on no other world but our own. Humans immediately start stepping into other worlds to explore and create new homes. Resources and space are no longer scarce; old hierarchies start breaking down. Joshua Valiente is a natural Stepper, someone who can jump from one world to the next without any ill effects. And so the first AI to be declared sentient (by dint of claiming to be the reincarnation of a Tibetan motorcycle repairman) hires him to be his companion as they explore farther into the alternate Earths than any humans before. Along the way they discover other sentient beings, who discovered stepping earlier in their evolutionary tracks: the peaceful \"trolls\" who communicate by song and scent, and the scrawny but aggressive \"elves\". These creatures are migrating toward the original Earth in what can only be called a very slow stampede. Lobsang, Joshua, and their chance-met companion Sally \"step\" against the stampede, hoping to find out what danger is approaching. And what they find is beyond their wildest imaginations. (view spoiler) [What scares the trolls and elves, and has been creating a mental pressure that Joshua must fight against, is a singular entity that evolved to be the only sentient creature on its Earth. Rather like the Borg, it envelops and incorporates any creature it comes across; after meeting a troll, it learns to step, and has been stepping toward the original Earth ever since. This sounds both cool and scary, but what's weird is how calmly the characters take it. Lobsang incorporates himself into the creature, and then the humans consider the matter solved, I guess? Even though they have no reason to? For all they know the creature just took Lobsang's HUGE store of knowledge and will use it to get to original Earth even faster, so I don't get why they saunter back home like everything is hunky-dory. And then, in the last two chapters, a nuclear bomb gets set off in original Earth, everyone escapes by stepping, and that's the end of the book. No consequences get explored, no one reacts to it emotionally...it's a very anticlimactic ending despite involving a nuclear bomb. (hide spoiler) ] This was not a good book. The dialog is stilted and made up of info-dumps, the descriptions of alternate Earths repetitive and boring. Various side characters, mostly never heard from again, are given a chapter each to tell the tale of their own exploration. Pratchett's contribution is nearly invisible--there's one section in which a WWI private thinks about his boots and another about a religion that seems Pratchett-esque, but there are few moments of humor and no other moments of whimsy. The characters never seem to really have personalities or connect to each other, and the only character who felt remotely real was Monica Jansson (a lesbian cop who is one of the few people who fully understands what alternate earths means for the original Earth). The pacing is soooo slow, and the plot is basically non-existent. It felt like the authors figured out they needed a plot about four chapters from the end, shoved a couple dangers in, and then went back to what they really wanted to talk about, which was boring characters creating boring homesteads. It's not even fun in a Hatchet kind of way, because there's no struggle to survive--humans settle on worlds so rich in resources that they don't even need to farm; fish practically leap into their baskets. And there's no real world-building; they don't explore how the original Earth changes, or talk further about what it means that Happy Landings has no crime or disabled people, or get in depth about anything at all. It was, in all, very disappointing. ...more The idea and main concept of this book is immensly intriguing, and while certainly not a unique concept in the sci fi genre, the potential for a 'Terry Pratchett' take on it, appealed to me. As I read this book, an overwhelming surge of familiarity swept over me. It felt like I was treading very similiar waters, dealing with characters, ideas, motifs, themes that I knew, but couldn't quite put my finger on 'why'? it felt so familiar. Exploring the vastness of uncharted worlds, finding almost huma The idea and main concept of this book is immensly intriguing, and while certainly not a unique concept in the sci fi genre, the potential for a 'Terry Pratchett' take on it, appealed to me. As I read this book, an overwhelming surge of familiarity swept over me. It felt like I was treading very similiar waters, dealing with characters, ideas, motifs, themes that I knew, but couldn't quite put my finger on 'why'? it felt so familiar. Exploring the vastness of uncharted worlds, finding almost humanoid, maybe sinister, maybe just different species, an corporation with a long reach, an overly clever AI... it felt so much 'I've read this before, I've seen this before,'. And alas, did not present an interesting enough 'spin' on those familiar ideas. There are no 'original' stories, certainly. There are however original and engaging versions/interpretations. Alas, in my opinion, The Long Earth is not such an interpretation. Leaving the familiarity aside for a moment, by the time I reached a substantial mid point in the book, I still did not feel connected to the main characters. I was reading still for curiousity's sake, just to see how it all turned out, rather than due to a vested interest in the characters' development and motives. The narrative informed me that the characters were 'changing, learning' just in case I had missed it - and I fear that I had. I enjoyed and appreciated the split story telling, the slow reveal of how the various secondary plots intersected with the main story, but the pace felt ponderous, the reveals almost 'by the way' rather than dramatic. The ending felt unfinished and rushed, and obviously tapering off for a sequel (as hinted at on the cover). Nonetheless, it still felt - unrealised. Here however, is my main disappointment with the book. The initial idea of a 'Long Earth' excited me. It is something (from a sci fi perspective) I would love to explore. Multiple Earths (with or without humanity) to explore, to see my own country as it would be without humanity's marks. The story touched on the excitement and peace, the escape offered to humanity but this sense of joy, of exploration was undermined by the certainity that humanity would screw it up. Not the fear that we would, just the certainity that we would. However realistic or just pessismistic that view is, I felt that even the brief spots of potenital hope were undermined as well - Happy Landings, Reboot - all tainted by an underlying worry or fear. I did not walk away from this book with a glimmer of hope for humanity. For me, this so often is what sci fi embodies - the vision, the dream of transcending our current issues, of taking the opportunity to learn, to leave our childish ways behind - to succeed. The Long Earth gives humanity endless options, yet the narrative undermined that very hope. And I feel missed the joy, the excitement of exploration. (Or the mindless terror) On the whole, I wanted to enjoy this book. I cannot say that I did. I finished it and felt depressed rather than hopeful. Books can make you think, challenge our views and expectations. Sci Fi especially can do - pose a challenge to look beyond the humdrum of our existence to the potential, the hope for our future. I was not expecting the usual Pratchett humour, although it would have been nice. It could only have improved a story that otherwise struggled to engage me, and left me not only wanting more - but wishing it had been better. I realise this review is somewhat morose and depressed, but that is, alas, how I feel about this book - or rather how it left me feeling. Perhaps that was the intention, to end on a moment of despair, fear - and future books will resolve that - offer the hope I missed. One can hope :) ...more I finished 'The Long Earth' and it was dreadful. I can barely deal with how dreadful it was. There's a smug AI that claims to be the reincarnation of a Tibetan motor cycle repairer. The hero becomes his Doctor Who companion (\"Doctor, I am dumb. Please explain stuff.\") as they fly over landscapes. \"Look, there's a big ocean, there's a crocodile, there's an animal that's half elephant half rhino.\" Whenever the authors need to do some exposition that the AI and the companion aren't around to see, t I finished 'The Long Earth' and it was dreadful. I can barely deal with how dreadful it was. There's a smug AI that claims to be the reincarnation of a Tibetan motor cycle repairer. The hero becomes his Doctor Who companion (\"Doctor, I am dumb. Please explain stuff.\") as they fly over landscapes. \"Look, there's a big ocean, there's a crocodile, there's an animal that's half elephant half rhino.\" Whenever the authors need to do some exposition that the AI and the companion aren't around to see, they just bung in another character. Want to know what's going on in Britain's Houses of Parliament? Introduce a stenographer to listen to a big secret meeting, and then never go back to her again. The worst, though, the absolute worst, was when the authors introduce a family keen to go all old timer colonial, and the oldest child, a boy, can't step between the alternate Earths because he has a phobia. So they leave him behind. He's thirteen years old! They couldn't have waited five years until he was independent? No one even bats an eyelid over it! I kept hoping his parents would be eaten by dinosaurs. ...more 3.5 Though this book feels in many parts like an awkward blend of The Hitch-hiker's Guide and The Time Machine , but lacking in Adams' trademark humour and oddities (and Pratchett's, come to think of it) The Long Earth is still an interesting read. Focusing on ideas rather than plot has been pretty unusual in recent releases so it's quite refreshing to be allowed to explore all these worlds - different earth versions - without having to keep up with multiple relationships and character development 3.5 Though this book feels in many parts like an awkward blend of The Hitch-hiker's Guide and The Time Machine , but lacking in Adams' trademark humour and oddities (and Pratchett's, come to think of it) The Long Earth is still an interesting read. Focusing on ideas rather than plot has been pretty unusual in recent releases so it's quite refreshing to be allowed to explore all these worlds - different earth versions - without having to keep up with multiple relationships and character developments. ...more Dedications: For Lynn and Rhianna, as always - TP For Sandra - SB Opening: IN A FOREST GLADE. Private Percy woke up to birdsong. It was a long time since he had heard birdsong, the guns saw to that. For a while he was content to lie there in the blissful quiet. A third of the way through and am not enjoying. I know, it's PTerry, but seriously this is not doing it for me. I'll have a break from it for a while - maybe curosity will get the better of me. The basic conceit behind The Long Earth is simple: There are parallel universes and one day human beings discover they can \"step\" from one to the next quite easily. But while most parallel universe stories would use this as a stepping stone to tell about the conflict between our world and one where the Axis powers won World War II, or where the meteor that wiped out the dinosaurs never struck the earth, The Long Earth takes a different approach: humans don't seem to have evolved on most of the ot The basic conceit behind The Long Earth is simple: There are parallel universes and one day human beings discover they can \"step\" from one to the next quite easily. But while most parallel universe stories would use this as a stepping stone to tell about the conflict between our world and one where the Axis powers won World War II, or where the meteor that wiped out the dinosaurs never struck the earth, The Long Earth takes a different approach: humans don't seem to have evolved on most of the other earths. Instead, Pratchett and Baxter basically have two stories to tell: one about a very small team of adventurers that start exploring the Long Earth, and one about the impact the discovery has on the world as we know it. Interspersed with the tale of exploration are snippets looking at the social and economic impacts of the fact that there's now a nearly infinite amount of land available for humans to populate -- and what it means when some people just pick up and leave their world behind in search of a better one. Like any story that Terry Pratchett has been involved in writing, The Long Earth has a touch of humor to it, but it also poses some interesting philosophical questions and feels at times more like a Heinlein or Asimov novel than a Discworld story -- which makes sense, because it's *not* a Discworld story. If that's what you're expecting, you'll probably be disappointed. You'll also probably be disappointed if you like your stories wrapped up in a bow with everything explained at the end. There are a lot of questions asked in this story that are never answered -- and while it's possible that's just to leave open room for a sequel, I kind of like the open-ended nature of the world(s) and characters created in this story and don't see the need for a second volume. There are times when the story seems to ramble a bit, and some of the characters we're introduced to only seem to play a role for a moment or two and then fade into the background, leaving me wondering if they even added enough color to the story to merit the few seconds it takes to read about them. But overall I found The Long Earth to be a quick, enjoyable read as a classic science fiction tale set in the near future. The Long Earth book review (Brad Linder's Blog) ...more 1.5 stars, I really struggled to finish it, I even skipped passages. This is by far worst Terry Pratchett's book I read.Sure I given 2 stars to some Discworld books but that is because they where relatively weak compared to other Discworld books, I still had some fun with them.Story is uninteresting and most of the characters are just totally dull.Only reason I didn't give it 1 star because Joshua's PoV parts are not that bad and there are occasionally flashes of Pratchett's witty writing but tha 1.5 stars, I really struggled to finish it, I even skipped passages. This is by far worst Terry Pratchett's book I read.Sure I given 2 stars to some Discworld books but that is because they where relatively weak compared to other Discworld books, I still had some fun with them.Story is uninteresting and most of the characters are just totally dull.Only reason I didn't give it 1 star because Joshua's PoV parts are not that bad and there are occasionally flashes of Pratchett's witty writing but that's just not enough. ...more The Long Earth is a concept Terry Pratchett first developed back in the mid-80s, around the same time that he was finishing up the third Discworld book, Equal Rights. The novel was a victim of Pratchett's own success, getting left behind when the Discworld series proved to be so successful. Sadly, as much as I wanted to like it, and as promising as the first few chapters were, it really does feel like a book that was written 25 years ago, handed off to somebody else, and then rushed into print. The Long Earth is a concept Terry Pratchett first developed back in the mid-80s, around the same time that he was finishing up the third Discworld book, Equal Rights. The novel was a victim of Pratchett's own success, getting left behind when the Discworld series proved to be so successful. Sadly, as much as I wanted to like it, and as promising as the first few chapters were, it really does feel like a book that was written 25 years ago, handed off to somebody else, and then rushed into print. Nothing against Stephen Baxter, who is an amazing author on his own, but this is an awkward collaboration that really adds nothing to my Pratchett shelves. The concept here is definitely intriguing, even if it's not quite fully explained. Basically, humanity has discovered the ability to 'step' between parallel worlds. There are those among us who have always been able to do so naturally, without really understanding what they've done or how, but one man's eccentric experiments have bestowed that ability upon anybody willing to construct one of his little 'stepping' boxes. Suddenly, humanity has access to an infinite number of pristine worlds, as ripe for exploitation as they are for exploration. There are some interesting catches, of course - stepping makes most people violently ill, nothing made of iron can move between worlds, and stepping from atop a skyscraper to a world without buildings is a really bad idea - but the possibilities are endless. What makes the first half of the book so interesting is the unexpected consequences of stepping. Criminals suddenly have easy access to even the most impenetrable places on Earth, forcing governments and banks literally underground. Greedy explorers invest everything they own to replicate the gold rush on other worlds, only to find that everybody else had the same idea, and that gold has been rendered worthless. Immigration is pretty much a thing of the past (why apply for visas and passports when you can just 'step' somewhere new), and governments are left scrambling to keep the infrastructure and economy running smoothly with half the population suddenly gone. Those side-tales, however, are also part of what's wrong with the book later on. Pratchett and Baxter spend far too much time relating stories of the new explorers when, in the grand scheme of things, they really add very little to the story. Similarly, as interesting as it is to reexamine some urban legends by imagining the participants were natural steppers, they go back to the well far too often, and the stories that were so entertaining early on just become annoyances later. Unfortunately, it turns out these asides are necessary to keep things moving, since the central storyline just isn't strong enough or interesting enough to carry a whole novel. As for that storyline, we have a natural stepper who has become something of a reluctant celebrity because of his heroic actions the night the rest of the world learned to step. We also have a sentient computer who believes himself to be the reincarnation of a dead human, and a shadowy organization who employs them both. The two set out on a mission to explore their way to the heart of the Long Earth (assuming there is such a thing), stepping across hundreds of thousands of worlds on their journey. If you've ever watched a child flick through the channels on TV, stop every once in a while to watch a few minutes of a show, and then keep flicking again, you've basically shared the experience of the book. They do have some adventures, and do discover some interesting facts about how we're not alone in these parallel worlds, but there's far too much filler between the facts. In the end, this felt very much like a young-adult novel that wants to be more, the kickoff to a series that really seems to have no clear direction ahead. It comes across as somewhat lazy and haphazard, with flashes of brilliance, but an overall dullness that left me skimming chapters by the end. Not even a surprising act of anti-stepper terrorism at the end can rescue the overall story. While I didn't expect a Discworld level farce, Pratchett's trademark absurd humour is largely missing here, aside from a few quirky (but unusually subtle) bits. It's a shame, because that might have helped to carry the story. The Discworld novels are not exactly the most amazingly plotted works of epic fantasy ever to grace the shelves, but they are fun reads that understand how to continuously engage the reader. That engagement, more than anything else, is what is missing here, leaving us with a story that doesn't live up to the concept, and characters who are too one-dimensional to carry one Earth, much less hundreds of thousands. Originally reviewed at Beauty in Ruins ...more This is a fun, \"feel-good\" science fiction novel about a world where people can \"step\" from one Earth to another. The story centers on Joshua, one of the few people who can step spontaneously. Most other people need a relatively simple device to aid in their stepping. One can step \"east\" or \"west\", and proceed over and over again, stepping into parallel universes. The Earth in each universe has a geology that has developed differently, and life has evolved into different forms. Some Earths are ve This is a fun, \"feel-good\" science fiction novel about a world where people can \"step\" from one Earth to another. The story centers on Joshua, one of the few people who can step spontaneously. Most other people need a relatively simple device to aid in their stepping. One can step \"east\" or \"west\", and proceed over and over again, stepping into parallel universes. The Earth in each universe has a geology that has developed differently, and life has evolved into different forms. Some Earths are very similar to our own, while others are very different. The best aspect of this book, is the uniqueness of this stepping idea, and how the authors develop the features of each Earth. There is an unknown pressure that is driving sapient creatures back toward our own Earth; this is the central mystery in the book. Nevertheless, there is hardly any conflict in this book--there is a little bit, but it doesn't occupy a central place. Most of the book is occupied with the interplay between Joshua and an organic/mechanistic hybrid person. Does this person have a \"human\" mind, or is it some sort of artificial intelligence? Sometimes, the hybrid person has to pass a \"Turing test\". There isn't much of a plot. It is an adventure story, but without conflict or major obstacles. A \"feel-good\" atmosphere envelops much of the story, sort of reminiscent of Heinlein. However, in this book it seems rather banal. A lot of science fiction books, though futuristic, are believable to some extent. This story, unfortunately, lacks even a shred of believability. I didn't read this book--I listened to the audiobook, narrated by Michael Fenton-Stevens. He is an excellent reader, and varies the characters' accents to make them quite distinctive. This undoubtedly raised the enjoyment factor for this book, that would otherwise have been a bit dull. ...more The Long Earth is a clear example of a great idea that's been poorly executed. They are both great writers, but the plot goes nowhere and many pages later you're wondering why were you reading this in the first place. The premise: using a potato-powered device that you must build yourself for it to function, almost anyone can travel from \u2018Datum Earth\u2019 to other, geographically similar Earths with alternate, human-free histories. Suddenly, there is infinite land and space, over which governments scramble to seize control while people respond in myriad ways. My favourite character in The Long Earth is Lobsang, a human personality whose body has died; he\u2019s a program. He is able to design, build and animate hardwar The premise: using a potato-powered device that you must build yourself for it to function, almost anyone can travel from \u2018Datum Earth\u2019 to other, geographically similar Earths with alternate, human-free histories. Suddenly, there is infinite land and space, over which governments scramble to seize control while people respond in myriad ways. My favourite character in The Long Earth is Lobsang, a human personality whose body has died; he\u2019s a program. He is able to design, build and animate hardware items than run on subsystems of himself, to learn everything-there-is-to-know from repositories of human knowledge, and to be smug and self-satisfied. He is not exactly AI, but something else, a fascinating concept that kept me pondering and wandering off the page, and occasionally getting geeky laughs (when Lobsang recompiles himself. I could go on, but I don\u2019t want to spoil the worldbuilding which is what makes this work for me \u2013 the other characters were maybe a little flat. The humanoid \u2018trolls\u2019 made me smile and I enjoyed the accurate/plausible physics/cosmology. I read this with a student, and we\u2019ll be grabbing the sequel. ...more GREAT fun! I love Pratchett, and this did not disappoint. Really interesting idea--humans suddenly realize we can travel through endless stacks of parallel universes, each created by a different branch on the probability tree. Hugely entertaining descriptions of how this discovery impacts politics, property ownership, police, industry, and of what these worlds look like--why humanity is unique to our own. A great 'what if' story, with the narrative built around a thread of the main character inv GREAT fun! I love Pratchett, and this did not disappoint. Really interesting idea--humans suddenly realize we can travel through endless stacks of parallel universes, each created by a different branch on the probability tree. Hugely entertaining descriptions of how this discovery impacts politics, property ownership, police, industry, and of what these worlds look like--why humanity is unique to our own. A great 'what if' story, with the narrative built around a thread of the main character investigating these worlds and a possible threat moving through them. ...more I suspect that there's much more Baxter than Pratchett in this book. I stopped reading Stephen Baxter (and in fact hard SF in general) years ago, because of exactly the hard SF flaws that infest this book: characters that exist almost solely so they can give you idiot lectures, other characters that exist largely to be mobile cameras for the tourist documentary about the setting, and hardly a protagonist in sight. There are some characters with great potential. The leftist nuns, who we mostly see I suspect that there's much more Baxter than Pratchett in this book. I stopped reading Stephen Baxter (and in fact hard SF in general) years ago, because of exactly the hard SF flaws that infest this book: characters that exist almost solely so they can give you idiot lectures, other characters that exist largely to be mobile cameras for the tourist documentary about the setting, and hardly a protagonist in sight. There are some characters with great potential. The leftist nuns, who we mostly see in Joshua's memory, not onstage. The homesteaders who are inexplicably going a huge distance away, much further than they need to, and who are inexplicably broadcasting from a private journal on shortwave just as the main observer passes through, and who are inexplicably, in that journal, saying things for their small community to hear that you wouldn't want your close neighbours to hear. And who then break into an idiot lecture. They could have been so much more. The whole book could have been so much more. But it spent so much time exploring ideas that it never quite got around to having much of a plot, and the characters were mainly there to observe, not to want things, not to act, not to strive towards a goal or overcome challenges (other than technical challenges). Almost the only character who seemed to be taking any determined action towards a goal was the straw-man ignorant, bigoted politician. I also didn't buy the idea that multiple children, on the same day that the design for a \"stepper\" was published on the Internet, would go out and buy electronic parts and build one, not knowing what it did, not having built electronics before, not caught up in any existing popular movement or viral idea. There are some kids who would do that, but they're not the kind of kids that were depicted. And I kept waiting for Joshua's life rule of following the instructions to become more than a personality quirk, to make a difference to the plot, but there was so little plot for it to make a difference to that it never became significant. No, this one failed to live up to its potential. It took a wonderful idea and made it, frankly, dull. ...more 4 Stars This is a case where I actually would give it full marks because it is right up my alley. I loved this story. The concept and themes are very thought provoking. The book really suffers as it broaches so many heavy themes that it does none of them any real justice. Stepping the beginning: \u201c\u2018Well, maybe. At least he gave people a new option. Although he said people were going to have to learn to think, out there in the Long Earth. He said once, \u201cI am giving mankind the key to endless worlds. 4 Stars This is a case where I actually would give it full marks because it is right up my alley. I loved this story. The concept and themes are very thought provoking. The book really suffers as it broaches so many heavy themes that it does none of them any real justice. Stepping the beginning: \u201c\u2018Well, maybe. At least he gave people a new option. Although he said people were going to have to learn to think, out there in the Long Earth. He said once, \u201cI am giving mankind the key to endless worlds. An end to scarcity and, may we hope, war. And perhaps a new meaning to life. I leave the exploration of all these worlds to your generation, my dear, though personally I think you will fuck it up royally.\u201d Why are you looking at me like that?\u2019\u201d \u201c\u2026 In all these worlds we are rushing over, the most precious thing that we can find is another human being. That\u2019s what I think. And if we are the only minds like ours in the Long Earth, in the universe \u2013 well, that\u2019s pretty sad and scary.\u201d I have not read Stephen Baxter before but I will surely now. I am a lifelong Pratchett fan and he is among my very favorite authors. This book is not a showcase for Pratchett and I do not see very much from his lighter handed approach. This book is not at all like Good Omens in that manner. This is a fast paced, high concept, light science fiction novel that could find a great audience. Highly recommended!!! ...more This is a really good example of a great idea that's poorly executed. It really needed more of a plot, better continuity, drama, character development, or something. Just choosing one of those elements would have elevated The Long Earth to something special. As it was, it just kept reminding me of Ozzie's journey on the Silfen roads in Peter F. Hamilton's Commonwealth Saga. At times, it seemed like I was re-reading those books but not enjoying it as much. I gave this book two stars based on the This is a really good example of a great idea that's poorly executed. It really needed more of a plot, better continuity, drama, character development, or something. Just choosing one of those elements would have elevated The Long Earth to something special. As it was, it just kept reminding me of Ozzie's journey on the Silfen roads in Peter F. Hamilton's Commonwealth Saga. At times, it seemed like I was re-reading those books but not enjoying it as much. I gave this book two stars based on the GoodReads definition of \"it was ok\". I wish it had risen above that. As far as the audio production goes, it seems to me that a book that is primarily about American characters should have an American narrator. Michael Fenton-Stevens is a very good narrator, but he just wasn't a very good fit for this book. Just because the authors are English doesn't mean the narrator has to be. ...more 2 stars - Meh. Just ok. Another book that started at its apex and subsequently went downhill. I loved the unique world idea, but towards the end, it became a bit silly and the plot seemed to melt into a big pile of randomness. It also wrapped up with an extremely abrupt \"ending\" (if you want to call it that). I'm not referring to a cliffhanger, just something that felt more like a chapter ending, or even a paragraph ending. I dislike when authors of trilogies/series do not give each book its own 2 stars - Meh. Just ok. Another book that started at its apex and subsequently went downhill. I loved the unique world idea, but towards the end, it became a bit silly and the plot seemed to melt into a big pile of randomness. It also wrapped up with an extremely abrupt \"ending\" (if you want to call it that). I'm not referring to a cliffhanger, just something that felt more like a chapter ending, or even a paragraph ending. I dislike when authors of trilogies/series do not give each book its own wrap-up and proper closure. ------------------------------------------- Favorite Quote: But then science is nothing but a series of questions that lead to more questions. First Sentence: In a forest glade: Private Percy woke up to birdsong. ...more Great fun, despite the fact that this book feels like it's only building the setting for the next one. And it gives you so much food for thought regarding the evolution. A perfect blend between the warm and funny voice of Pratchett and the spectacular imagery and the scientific rigorousness of Baxter. My first Pratchett novel and I didn't care for it. Slow moving and uneventful. It picked up a little near the end but not enough to suck me into a seven book series. Too bad. The premise had potential for some dark and crazy stuff but apparently this isn't that type of story.<---C>Terry Pratchett</---C>", "Title": "The Long Earth"},
