{"Comments": "The fantasy parts of this book were believable but the reality parts were not. The characterization of the main character was completely ridiculous and unbelievable. The language was terrible (who says \"Aren't you supposed to be at college\" instead of \"aren't you supposed to be in class?\" The word college was seriously over-used, like the author had to keep pointing out that he was in college since his character wasn't nearly mature enough to be in college and any guy actually in college would N The fantasy parts of this book were believable but the reality parts were not. The characterization of the main character was completely ridiculous and unbelievable. The language was terrible (who says \"Aren't you supposed to be at college\" instead of \"aren't you supposed to be in class?\" The word college was seriously over-used, like the author had to keep pointing out that he was in college since his character wasn't nearly mature enough to be in college and any guy actually in college would NEVER act like this guy. And the whole squirrel story was totally stupid. This is a book about dragons but 90% of the book is wasted with stupid squirrels. This should be a minor side story to set up the dragons but instead takes up most of the book and isn't even entertaining. I was very disappointed in this book. I checked out the second book at the same time as this one so I went ahead and read it.<---F> The second book is MUCH better</---F>...but still not worth having to read this one so you know what's going on. ...more YAY! A dragon book! I LOVE DRAGONS! But disappointingly so, it's NOT what I had expected for a dragon book to be 'cause it's mainly centered on squirrels! *annoyed* I know, right?! What was the author thinking? David is this tenant who rented a room in Elizabeth Pennykettle's household. Liz owns a bunch of clay modeled dragon figures since that's what she \"does\" for a living and evidently have those things unwavering around the house, mostly on shelves. They don't move but they seem very alive. L YAY! A dragon book! I LOVE DRAGONS! But disappointingly so, it's NOT what I had expected for a dragon book to be 'cause it's mainly centered on squirrels! *annoyed* I know, right?! What was the author thinking? David is this tenant who rented a room in Elizabeth Pennykettle's household. Liz owns a bunch of clay modeled dragon figures since that's what she \"does\" for a living and evidently have those things unwavering around the house, mostly on shelves. They don't move but they seem very alive. Liz's daughter Lucy has always been fond of squirrels and had even given them names. When these rodents' habitat (in which case,<---M> an oak tree) has been cut down</---M>, they've been scattered to different places. This one squirrel, named Conker was like the main character of the plot, not only did it have only one eye (because a crow had plucked the other one out) but it was the main reason for Lucy and David's venture. One thing that I only liked about this book were the dragons themselves. They may be just clay (with magical powers) throughout the plot but whatever. They're the reason why I even started reading this book in the first place. And the prospect of having seemingly alive clay dragons is kinda fascinating. The fantasy aspect of this book was well done BUT the actualities and realistic flavors didn't really strike me as something compelling. So yeah, I didn't buy it. Anyway, I'll be reading the next book of this series. Dubious that it might disappoint me... again, I'm still gonna read it. ...more I was pretty disappointed with this one. Quite a few of my kids at school really like this one and the series. It has a pretty cool core idea with some dragon lore and living dragon statues, but then like 80% of the book is about saving some squirrels! Who cares?! Seriously. The little girl and the main 20-yr-old freaking out so much about the squirrels isn't really believable and it definitely isn't interesting. The book suffers from a semi-common JF fiction problem of the characters acting weir I was pretty disappointed with this one. Quite a few of my kids at school really like this one and the series. It has a pretty cool core idea with some dragon lore and living dragon statues, but then like 80% of the book is about saving some squirrels! Who cares?! Seriously. The little girl and the main 20-yr-old freaking out so much about the squirrels isn't really believable and it definitely isn't interesting. The book suffers from a semi-common JF fiction problem of the characters acting weird just to fit the plot. The 20-yr-old instantly bonds with his landlord in one day and starts snooping around the neighbors yard to save squirrels, the Animal Hospital girl instantly bonds with the guy, the \"evil\" crow with the cool name randomly appears and then totally disappears to advance a weird plot angle...and oh yea, we have this cool cover about a dragon so we'll through in a few bits about them too. It's just annoying. Charlie Bone occasionally suffers from similar problems, but it's better than this. The Peter and the Starcatchers series is a good example of books aimed at the same age group and and actually well-written. There are a couple of sequels and another on the way. They actually look like they'll be about dragons, but I just don't think I'm going to be giving them a shot anytime soon. ...more I decided to read a children\u2019s book as a change of pace, and Chris D\u2019Lacey\u2019s <+++>The Fire Within</+++> was a perfect choice. A young college student, David, moves into the home of mother and daughter, Elizabeth and Lucy, expecting just a room to sleep in and food to eat. But he soon becomes part of the family, helping Lucy in her quest to save the squirrel next door which was left injured when its tree was chopped down. The novel has a beautiful mixture of nature and fantasy, with delightful relationships I decided to read a children\u2019s book as a change of pace, and Chris D\u2019Lacey\u2019s <+++>The Fire Within</+++> was a perfect choice. A young college student, David, moves into the home of mother and daughter, Elizabeth and Lucy, expecting just a room to sleep in and food to eat. But he soon becomes part of the family, helping Lucy in her quest to save the squirrel next door which was left injured when its tree was chopped down. The novel has a beautiful mixture of nature and fantasy, with delightful relationships, childlike innocence, and a real concern for the environment blended with an intriguing touch of magic. For Elizabeth makes beautiful kiln-fired dragons, and no one should ever make a dragon cry. The fire of the title lies in the heart, of dragon or man. It\u2019s kindled in story-telling and fills the pages of books and libraries. It conquers tragedy with honest tales and tears. And it\u2019s wakened by love. The Fire Within is a great book for any child who loves squirrels and/or cats and/or dragons. It\u2019s a wonderful source of encouragement for library visits, nature quests, art and writing. The simple text and many layers of story should intrigue both eager and reluctant readers and inspire them to look for more. I really loved this book. ...more This is the first book in a middle grade series about David, a college student, who moves in to live with a mother and her daughter. The mother, Liz, makes those clay dragons and David believes there is something strange going on in the house and is doubtful as to whether the dragons are real or not. (Spoiler alert: they are) This was a quick, fun read but i would have enjoyed it more had i read it when i first acquired it: six years ago. Also, practically the entire plot was revolving around res This is the first book in a middle grade series about David, a college student, who moves in to live with a mother and her daughter. The mother, Liz, makes those clay dragons and David believes there is something strange going on in the house and is doubtful as to whether the dragons are real or not. (Spoiler alert: they are) This was a quick, fun read but i would have enjoyed it more had i read it when i first acquired it: six years ago. Also, practically the entire plot was revolving around rescuing this injured squirrel and only in the last like, 40 pages did we actually get involved with any real dragons so that kind of put me off; i signed up for a dragon story not a squirrel story if you know what i mean. But still it was well-written and i did like the ending so i think that youngsters, or people who generally enjoy middle-grade books, would appreciate it. ...more Before I start let me just imply that I read this years ago when I was younger and part of the second, so I am a tad biased writing this review for it being one of my favorite childhood books. Now, for the actual review. Who doesn't like dragons ? And that's exactly what the book is filled with to the brim. A twenty year old college student named David moves into the Pennykettle household as a temporary tenant. There he meets Liz, the single mother who works as a potter and creates clay dragons t Before I start let me just imply that I read this years ago when I was younger and part of the second, so I am a tad biased writing this review for it being one of my favorite childhood books. Now, for the actual review. Who doesn't like dragons ? And that's exactly what the book is filled with to the brim. A twenty year old college student named David moves into the Pennykettle household as a temporary tenant. There he meets Liz, the single mother who works as a potter and creates clay dragons to sell at a market in town, and her younger daughter Lucy who has a strange obsession with squirrels. The story lays out the foundation of the series of seven books by introducing the idea of dragons and teasing the idea of them being real, concrete living beings like a carrot on a stick the entire novel. I understand the book getting some pretty bad reviews because the main point of the book is revolved around an injured squirrel and how they are going to catch him and save him eventually, but it's a brilliant idea. By focusing on a temporary main plot D'Lacey is able to slowly forge the bonds of Liz, Lucy, and David, and slowly reveal more info on dragons as the book unfolds, making you want to sit down and marathon read for hours on end wanting to know more. In the end this is one of my all time favorite books, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in dragons or with a love of fantasy touched with a little romance and the convalescent bond of family tieing the book together. Hrrrrrr ...more The Fire Within is one of those books that might not seem very special, or as if it would be a worthwhile read, yet is actually a story that will touch the hearts of all who decide to open its cover. In my opinion, the writing style of this first installment is most suitable for someone of a younger age than my own, yet the themes expressed have the ability to capture anyone's interest. This easy read is a favorite of mine and will always remain so. Throughout the entirety of the novel, a prevale The Fire Within is one of those books that might not seem very special, or as if it would be a worthwhile read, yet is actually a story that will touch the hearts of all who decide to open its cover. In my opinion, the writing style of this first installment is most suitable for someone of a younger age than my own, yet the themes expressed have the ability to capture anyone's interest. This easy read is a favorite of mine and will always remain so. Throughout the entirety of the novel, a prevalent theme becomes evident; We all have a fire within us, and it is called creativity. This message is expressed in every essence of The Fire Within. The protagonist, <---C>David Rain</---C>, finds his fire within while discovering inspiration. David manages this only with the help of his special dragon, Gadzooks who often writes ideas down on the notepad he was kilned with. David receives inspiring ideas from Gadzooks only in his imagination. Or does he? Again, this seemingly trivial read is actually a book I wish all of humanity had the chance of reading. The thought-provoking themes the author provides will undoubtedly effect the current generation of readers. I am quite fond of The Fire Within and the rest of the Last Dragon Chronicles as well, which I hope to be reviewing in the near future. Truly, Chris D'Lacey has constructed a beautiful, touching, and adventurous novel that will kindle the fire within each and every one of his fans, including me. ;-) ...more This book was BORING!!!!! It should have been called \"Conker's Life\" or something to that effect. I was looking for dragon fantasy and I got a crappy story about squirrels. The characters were completely undeveloped, and I hated Lucy. That may sound harsh, but she maybe the most annoying character ever created. I was looking forward to reading the whole series. That is never going to happen. I made myself finish the book because I paid nearly $10.00 ( e-book) for less than 200 pages. The series This book was BORING!!!!! It should have been called \"Conker's Life\" or something to that effect. I was looking for dragon fantasy and I got a crappy story about squirrels. The characters were completely undeveloped, and I hated Lucy. That may sound harsh, but she maybe the most annoying character ever created. I was looking forward to reading the whole series. That is never going to happen. I made myself finish the book because I paid nearly $10.00 ( e-book) for less than 200 pages. The series I read before this book had 4 books to the series with 500 or more pages for each book at the same price. The series before that was 900 plus pages a book for literally change. I think the first was free and the rest were 99 cents to a couple dollars. The characters were well developed, and the fantasy worlds created were fantastic. The point is, I felt robbed at the end. To me, this is dragon fantasy for a twelve year old that likes squirrels A LOT! I want to feel pulled into another world, and I want to feel a little empty after a good book. The feeling I had after this book was more like, what a waste of my time and money. ...more A magical adventure about the power of dragons... When David moves in with Elizabeth Pennykettle and her eleven-year-old daughter, Lucy, he discovers a collection of clay dragons that come to life. David's own special dragon inspires him to wrote a story, which reveals the secrets behind a mystery. In order to solve the mystery and to save his dragon, David must master the magic of the fire within--not only with his hands but also his heart. This book is so adorable! It has long time since I've read a children's book so engaging. The Fire Within was the perfect book to take me from the reading slump i was going to. You know that book that catches your inner child and stirs your imagination? The book that makes you subtly believe in magic, but the way that only a child can. This book made me laugh and cheer for all the characters, I got hooked by the plot and its mysteries, with that excitement that a child has when he's about to hear This book is so adorable! It has long time since I've read a children's book so engaging. The Fire Within was the perfect book to take me from the reading slump i was going to. You know that book that catches your inner child and stirs your imagination? The book that makes you subtly believe in magic, but the way that only a child can. This book made me laugh and cheer for all the characters, I got hooked by the plot and its mysteries, with that excitement that a child has when he's about to hear a story. This book made me feel that satisfaction when things go right, and sorrow when everything is going down the wrong path. The narrative of this book is so welcoming, that makes you feel inside the story, feel the warmth of Liz's house, and imagine all the dragons that live there. Now, I would love to have my own clay dragon, but i want a special one. ...more I normally love books by British authors but I didn't finish this one. While it had some unusual characters and several funny lines, the plot was too ambiguous... and meandering. And there were far too many squirrels. Where did all the squirrels come from? It's supposed to be a book about dragons. All the dragons do is write in notepads, make strange noises, and cry, etc. And I'm supposed to care about some squirrel dying just because the annoying little girl is obsessed with them? I guess squirre I normally love books by British authors but I didn't finish this one. While it had some unusual characters and several funny lines, the plot was too ambiguous... and meandering. And there were far too many squirrels. Where did all the squirrels come from? It's supposed to be a book about dragons. All the dragons do is write in notepads, make strange noises, and cry, etc. And I'm supposed to care about some squirrel dying just because the annoying little girl is obsessed with them? I guess squirrels have never held much drama for me. In case you're wondering, I won't be reading the sequels. ...more A dragon on the cover? Why don't we just draw Mr. Bacon on the cover?! The most sensible thing would have been a squirrel. I don't get how the summary takes the smallest message of the book, makes it intriguing and a big deal, and then only mentions the idea a few times throughout the book. I mean \"The Fire Within\"? How is that of importance? My friend asks: \"Well, have you read the rest of the series?\" But that's my point. I shouldn't need to read the rest of the series to understand a message A dragon on the cover? Why don't we just draw Mr. Bacon on the cover?! The most sensible thing would have been a squirrel. I don't get how the summary takes the smallest message of the book, makes it intriguing and a big deal, and then only mentions the idea a few times throughout the book. I mean \"The Fire Within\"? How is that of importance? My friend asks: \"Well, have you read the rest of the series?\" But that's my point. I shouldn't need to read the rest of the series to understand a message written in the first books summary. ...more When college student David decides to board with Liz and her daughter Lucy he soon discovers all is not as it seems. Liz makes clay model dragons to sell, and Lucy is a rambunctious kid who really wants to find out where all the squirrels have gone. When Liz gives David his own dragon, Gadzooks, a tiny little dragon chewing on the end of a pencil, David's life takes some unexpected turns. This wasn't exactly a dragon book, in the sense of having a dragon as a main character. It was an interestin When college student David decides to board with Liz and her daughter Lucy he soon discovers all is not as it seems. Liz makes clay model dragons to sell, and Lucy is a rambunctious kid who really wants to find out where all the squirrels have gone. When Liz gives David his own dragon, Gadzooks, a tiny little dragon chewing on the end of a pencil, David's life takes some unexpected turns. This wasn't exactly a dragon book, in the sense of having a dragon as a main character. It was an interesting and creative story, but told rather simply and with distractingly bad paragraph breaks. ...more The Fire Within is about dragons so of course I picked it up... in 5th grade. Since I'm looking for new books and not having any success, I decided to re-read this book. I will say that the language is really low-grade level, but I really like <---A>Chris d'Lacey</---A>'s style of writing. It's so engaging in an indefinable way. I really love books like that; books you put down but wish that you could read all the way through without being interrupted. One big problem I had with this book though is the obsess The Fire Within is about dragons so of course I picked it up... in 5th grade. Since I'm looking for new books and not having any success, I decided to re-read this book. I will say that the language is really low-grade level, but I really like Chris d'Lacey's style of writing. It's so engaging in an indefinable way. I really love books like that; books you put down but wish that you could read all the way through without being interrupted. One big problem I had with this book though is the obsession. Authors always have something they are \"obsessed\" with, as I like to call it, be it boats, coffee, or anything in between. Seriously though, John Flanagan is all about coffee. All of the characters in his books HAVE to drink it, it's a must. Getting off the point though. Chris is \"obsessed\" with squirrels. He includes like 15 useless chapters about a squirrel with one eye that had absolutely NOTHING to do with the actually story. This book is supposed to be about magic dragons. Not squirrels. Just... why? Other than that, two thumbs up. I liked this book. Just not enough for 4 stars. ...more This book was not a terrible book, but it was defiantly not great. I did not like this book very much. I was hoping that it would be more focused about dragons than it was. The plot wasn't very good, and it was very shallow. I wished it would have been more interesting than it was. The book was mostly about squirrels and that was disappointing, because the cover had a dragon on it. When I picked it up I thought I was going to get a very interesting story about dragons. I would not recommend this This book was not a terrible book, but it was defiantly not great. I did not like this book very much. I was hoping that it would be more focused about dragons than it was. The plot wasn't very good, and it was very shallow. I wished it would have been more interesting than it was. The book was mostly about squirrels and that was disappointing, because the cover had a dragon on it. When I picked it up I thought I was going to get a very interesting story about dragons. I would not recommend this book to someone unless they really love squirrels. The characters were not down to earth, David who is supposed to be in college, is helping a little girl who he has just met find squirrels. I find this very hard to relate to. The parts that were about dragons, on the other hand, were interesting, I wished there would have been more of it in the book. That was the only reason I kept reading, it was so I could figure out some of the mysteries around the dragons. Like how does Liz fire the dragons without a kiln, and to figure out if the dragons were actually real. If it were not for those small parts thrown into the story I would have stopped reading and found another book to read. Overall it wasn't a terrible book, but it could have had a lot more potential than what it was used for. ...more This book is told from the perspective of David, a tenant at the Pennykettle household, with Liz Pennykettle, and her daughter, Lucy. The first few days, David has some odd experiences with clay dragons that Liz makes. He also helps her daughter find out what happened to a squirrel in their backyard. I think that this book was very interesting, because it tells a story about Dragons, while still adding parts about the squirrels. I thought some parts were unrealistic, such as the clay dragons com This book is told from the perspective of David, a tenant at the Pennykettle household, with Liz Pennykettle, and her daughter, Lucy. The first few days, David has some odd experiences with clay dragons that Liz makes. He also helps her daughter find out what happened to a squirrel in their backyard. I think that this book was very interesting, because it tells a story about Dragons, while still adding parts about the squirrels. I thought some parts were unrealistic, such as the clay dragons coming to life. I would recommend this book to a friend if they enjoy fantasy, because it has to with dragons. I will also continue to read this series, because it still has lots of things to be revealed in the next book. ...more When David moves into the Pennykettle's house as a tenant,he is unsuspecting. But event leads to event,and soon he is caught up in the strange mysteries of the house. A squirrel loving girl,a fantastic potter,and strange clay dragons. Soon he is caught up in it too.can he solve the mystery? When I first opened it I thought it would be an okay book, if a little childish, but basically the writing was terrible. The parts with the dragons were swallowed up in a side story about squirrels that was completely unrealistic. Maybe if I was younger it would have seemed better. I like The Fire Within. There are better books in the series. I think the book would be more interesting if there wasn't as much stuff about squirrels. Maybe that's just me. It is a very good series though. I enjoyed reading this book but can't remember it well even though I only read it about a year ago. I know it is part of a series and someday maybe I'll read the other books. Well it was an awesome book for one and also its not really about dragons but I can't tell you what it is about because that would ruin the book. Sooooooo...how did we get here? My daughter likes dragons, as in How to Train Your Dragon , and I need something to send her to camp with that was on her reading level. I was at a bookstore staring at the eye-catching cover on this one, and a teen next to me exclaimed that she loved this series. Oh, excellent, so I get it, send it off to camp, and my daughter comes back having read one chapter, which is unusual, but I didn't really investigate it at the time. Months later having read many other t Sooooooo...how did we get here? My daughter likes dragons, as in How to Train Your Dragon , and I need something to send her to camp with that was on her reading level. I was at a bookstore staring at the eye-catching cover on this one, and a teen next to me exclaimed that she loved this series. Oh, excellent, so I get it, send it off to camp, and my daughter comes back having read one chapter, which is unusual, but I didn't really investigate it at the time. Months later having read many other things, she asked me to read it to her, so I did. I seriously need to know how you write a children's book that is this bad. See the dragon on the cover? Go ahead and replace him with a squirrel, and then add the metafictional element that the unapologetic author insert is writing a story about the squirrel and his squirrel friends, doing squirrel stuff. Then add an obnoxious kid obsessed with the squirrels, a jammed-in love interest, and two maudlin squirrel funerals. I reserve the toilet paper rating for the real stinkers, and congratulations d'Lacey, you've won a spot on my rarefied 1-star review list. My daughter, who has the discerning reading taste of a nine-year-old, said she would rate it two stars, citing the squirrels and the botched sad moments, which she thinks may be related to the fact that normal people don't hold squirrel memorials. The worst part is that I already bought the sequel on clearance, and she's insisting that I read it to her, which I am under absolute protest. ...more The Fire Within (The Last Dragon Chronicles #1) By: Chris D'Lacey Report Written By: Christopher Painchaud 7F-1 Monday November 28th 2011 Ah, the Pennykettle family. They sure are one of a kind in Chris D,Lacey's book \"The Fire Within\", the first book of this amazing series. David Rain is 20 years old and is going for a geography class in Scrubbly and he needs to find somewhere to stay, and then he sees a flyer for the Pennykettle family. So, he decides to stay there. When he arrives he meets Elizabe The Fire Within (The Last Dragon Chronicles #1) By: Chris D'Lacey Report Written By: Christopher Painchaud 7F-1 Monday November 28th 2011 Ah, the Pennykettle family. They sure are one of a kind in Chris D,Lacey's book \"The Fire Within\", the first book of this amazing series. David Rain is 20 years old and is going for a geography class in Scrubbly and he needs to find somewhere to stay, and then he sees a flyer for the Pennykettle family. So, he decides to stay there. When he arrives he meets Elizabeth (Liz) Pennykettle and her 10 year old daughter (later in the story she turns 11) Lucy, oh, and did I mention they're brown tabby cat Bonnington. At first David doesn\u2019t mind the house, but then, things start to get a little strange. Lucy wants David to help her find Conker, the squirrel who is assumed blind, and save him. The following day, David meets the Pennykettles neighbor, Mr. Bacon. Mr. Bacon is a man that prefers to keep to himself, and doesn\u2019t really like people that much. David then find out that Liz does pottery, (Pennykettle Pots And Crafts). Liz and Lucy tell him that they make \"dragons\". Liz tells David she has a small pottery studio in one of the bedrooms upstairs. when David is alone upstairs he sees the words \"DRAGONS DEN\" hand painted on the door to the studio, he wanted to take a peek but he knew if Liz caught him it would be \"bye bye Mr. Rain\". Lucy starts talking alot about squirrels with David. She tells him about the squirrels she named which are: Conker; the one who is assumed blind, Birchwood; the bully of all the squirrels, Ringtail; Conker's best friend, and Cherrylea; she was beautiful and Lucy named her after a can of rice pudding. Later, David asks Liz about his dragon, and Liz tells him it a \"special dragon\", then Lucy adds that she has two: Gawain and Gwendolen (Lucy pronounced in \"Gawendolen\"). David says \u201cWhat do you mean a special dragon?\" Lucy tries to add on, \"They're- Then Liz cuts her off. There is must be something they're hiding from him. Later on, David thinks there is a fire in the studio and Lucy goes to check. She says its fine and sais \"It was only...y'know\". Then David goes to see. This is the first time he'd entered the \"Dragons Den\". The sweet aroma of paint and methyl acetate filled the air when David walked in. David then meets the dragons Gruffen and Guinevere. And finally, David meets his very own special dragon. The dragon had spiky wings, big flat feet and tiled green scales with turquoise flashes. He is holding a notepad and chewing on a pencil in deep concentration. Then David learns the most important rule of a dragon: you mustn't ever make him cry. David then names his dragon \"Gadzooks\". Later on in the story David goes and takes a visit to the library. He then finds out that Mr. Bacon works at the library. David tries to find a book on squirrels but Mr. Bacon says they're all out. David Then goes to the library gardens and decides to observe the squirrels himself. He meets the library gardener \"Greenfinger George\". I Really Liked the Ending of this story. There were alot of funny, sad, happy and mysterious parts. Well, I don\u2019t want to spoil the rest for those who want to read it. I SUGGEST YOU READ THIS BOOK! ...more A very simple, but refreshing read. The innocence and imagination in this series is awesome-- a breath of fresh air. I also like it because of the clay dragons, the detail and imagination there, and character accuracy. If you want a \"compelling read\" with plot twists and a nose-to-the-page kind of book, this is probably not for you. But if you'd like a nice, simple, refreshing, and warm book, then this series is perfect! :) I have had most of the books from The Last Dragon Chronicles on my to be read shelf for a few years now. The covers grabbed my attention, I was intrigued by the write ups on the back. But I just kept not getting to them. Looking back I really wish I had sooner. It was not until I picked up Chris's other series The Dragons of Wayward Crescent and started reading them with my children that I discovered how wonderful an author he is. In the last month I have read 5 of his books and currently have 2 I have had most of the books from The Last Dragon Chronicles on my to be read shelf for a few years now. The covers grabbed my attention, I was intrigued by the write ups on the back. But I just kept not getting to them. Looking back I really wish I had sooner. It was not until I picked up Chris's other series The Dragons of Wayward Crescent and started reading them with my children that I discovered how wonderful an author he is. In the last month I have read 5 of his books and currently have 2 underway. When reading children's books and young adult books some of my key ideas to make it an excellent book are: would I read it again, would I read it with my children, would I gift it to friends and family. To date all of the Chris d'Lacey books I have read fit into all three categories. This book was an amazing read. As reading it I could completely picture the events and was drawn into the world d'Lacey has created. This book is the interweaving of three stories, the story we are being told, the retelling of the last dragon's story, and the story that is being written within this story. And all three work together perfectly. I need to be pretty impressed with a book to give it 5 out of 5 stars, this one I wish I could give more. This is also the story of the coming of David to Wayward Crescent and to the creation of his special dragon, Gadzooks. David has come as a border at 42 Wayward Crescent, Scrubbley, Massachusetts, he is in college in Geography and quickly realizes there is something strange at his new home and with Liz and Lucy Pennykettle the mother and daughter he is renting from. He also quickly realizes there is something strange about the Pennykettle dragons. David is also roped into writing a story for Lucy for her birthday. And into trying to rescue a squirrel with an injured eye named Conker. David is told to trust his Dragon - Gadzooks and the dragon will help him. This is a wonderful story about magic, friendship, family and discovery. It was fun to read and I look forward to reading the rest of the series. This book comes with the highest of recommendation that I can give so give it a try. Read the review on my blog Book Reviews and More and reviews of other books by Chris d'Lacey. ...more I loved the concept but didn't think much of the story. Why the fucking hell is a book advertised as a dragon book about a squirrel??? Not amused.. Anyway I was intrigued by the clay dragons and all the other mysterious goings on. But then the book started focusing on that stupid squirrel. It just went on and on, pages of shit about that squirrel! I was a hairs inch away from giving this up! A total waste of fucking time! At the end things started heating up dragon-wise. But the best part was when I loved the concept but didn't think much of the story. Why the fucking hell is a book advertised as a dragon book about a squirrel??? Not amused.. Anyway I was intrigued by the clay dragons and all the other mysterious goings on. But then the book started focusing on that stupid squirrel. It just went on and on, pages of shit about that squirrel! I was a hairs inch away from giving this up! A total waste of fucking time! At the end things started heating up dragon-wise. But the best part was when that squirrel finally died! WHOOPEEEE! After that I felt almost giddy with joy \"At last were going to learn about dragons now\". Eventually the story went to dragons but not before everyone mourned the loss of the squirrel. They even had a miniature burial service, I mean come on! That was just taking things too far. Now when I think of this work of true boredom, I come to refer this book as a drag-on book get it? So when I at long last finished this drag-on story I was prepared to give up on this series. But then I met a friend who'd read the series before, and she told me there was more to come. And not only that she told me the squirrely bits were essential to the grand scheme of things! She said if I read on I'd understand why and now I do, sort of (view spoiler) [Lucy's obsession with the squirrel and animals in general signified her connection to the dragons. Because dragons are the guardians of the elements (nature) (hide spoiler) ] . So having read this I'd say only the last few chapters are worth reading, seriously. And don't waste your money buying this crap find it in the library. I can't say how much of a waste of paper this was! Urrrgggghhh![\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more The Fire Within by Chris D\u2019 Lacey When David takes a room for rent in Liz\u2019s and Lucy Pennykettle\u2019s home, everything seems normal enough, except for the dragons that seem to be on every shelf in the house. David pays little mind to the clay dragons till his own dragon starts appearing in his thoughts, giving him advice for stories and seemingly predicting the future. David quickly begins to realize that the dragons are more than clay. They are real. Finding the ad for a cheap room near his colleg The Fire Within by Chris D\u2019 Lacey When David takes a room for rent in Liz\u2019s and Lucy Pennykettle\u2019s home, everything seems normal enough, except for the dragons that seem to be on every shelf in the house. David pays little mind to the clay dragons till his own dragon starts appearing in his thoughts, giving him advice for stories and seemingly predicting the future. David quickly begins to realize that the dragons are more than clay. They are real. Finding the ad for a cheap room near his college, David doesn\u2019t ask questions about the description, \u201cMust like children, cats, and dragons\u2026.\u201d Though he quickly discovers the strange clay dragons built by Liz Pennykettle, he takes them for nothing more than clay sculptures. Meanwhile, Lucy, age eleven can\u2019t seem to leave the tenant alone about the topic of squirrels. She quickly draws David into the problem of a one eyed squirrel named Conker and begs him to write a story about him, claiming that his clay dragon, Gadzooks, will help him. Unwillingly he decides to start the story for Lucy\u2019s birthday and comes one step closer to the truth when his dragon actually appears in his head and guides his writing. It\u2019s not long before he realizes that Gadzooks can seemingly tell the future and that the dragons may be more than clay. Between helping the injured squirrel, figuring out his strange landlords, and discovering the secret of the dragons, David has his work cut out for him in The Fire Within. The book overall was not a favorite of mine, but the idea of the clay dragons being able to help with things like writing was a fun part of the story. A lot of the book is focused on squirrels and didn\u2019t do the job of pulling me in. So while I did like The Fire Within, I would most likely not recommend it for anyone ages 13+. ...more Wayward Crescent is a small suburban town decorated with beautiful oak trees and furry wild life scurrying about, with the occasional busybody nosing around in everyone\u2019s business. David is a young College student, who has rented a room in Mrs. Pennykettle\u2019s, along with her eleven year old daughter Lucy\u2019s, house. David instantly notices a strange vibe in the air when every room is garnished with an ornate clay dragon. Not only this, but Mrs. Pennykettle and Lucy speak as if the dragons have feel Wayward Crescent is a small suburban town decorated with beautiful oak trees and furry wild life scurrying about, with the occasional busybody nosing around in everyone\u2019s business. David is a young College student, who has rented a room in Mrs. Pennykettle\u2019s, along with her eleven year old daughter Lucy\u2019s, house. David instantly notices a strange vibe in the air when every room is garnished with an ornate clay dragon. Not only this, but Mrs. Pennykettle and Lucy speak as if the dragons have feelings and ideas of their own. David becomes curious as to the secrets that lie beyond the exquisite exterior of these pottery masterpieces, such as the \u201chrring noises\u201d or the \u201cdragon den\u201d which is forbidden to look in. He must unravel the mystery while balancing College and figuring out what makes the Pennykettles so special. Whether it\u2019s the clay dragons or the fire they have within them. The entirety of \u201cThe Fire Within\u201d was generally an easy read. It was written in a clear, precise format that can be enjoyable for any age group. Its detail and sarcastic humor makes each page a delight and gives you the energy to read on. Chris D\u2019Lancey writes in 3rd person, but mainly tells the story through David\u2019s perspective of things. He sets up the plotline as to make the readers curious about what unrevealed secrets the dragons possess and what information the Pennykettles are hanging on to. The author depicts David as an \u201cunbeliever\u201d of sorts, meaning he doesn\u2019t see the full \"power\" of the dragons as seen in the eyes of the Pennykettles. This technique helps unmask David\u2019s developing character throughout the novel. If you enjoy anything between fiction, mystery, folk lore or adventure, you will enjoy \u201cThe Last Dragon Chronicles.\u201d Its everyday setting blends perfectly with its mythical backbone. ...more OH MY GOD! This book is so outrageous! It's so suspeseful and it has dragons, which I love! Well, for anyone who hasn't read this book, I'm sorry, but I HAVE to give you my part so far (so here's a spoiler alert): 'Oddly, he thought about his dragon, then; Gadzooks, sitting on the windowsill at home: a spiky silhoutte against the rain pattered glass. And, in that moment, something peculiar happened. In his mind's eye David saw Gadzooks take his pencil from his mouth and try to scribble something OH MY GOD! This book is so outrageous! It's so suspeseful and it has dragons, which I love! Well, for anyone who hasn't read this book, I'm sorry, but I HAVE to give you my part so far (so here's a spoiler alert): 'Oddly, he thought about his dragon, then; Gadzooks, sitting on the windowsill at home: a spiky silhoutte against the rain pattered glass. And, in that moment, something peculiar happened. In his mind's eye David saw Gadzooks take his pencil from his mouth and try to scribble something down on his pad....He shook himself once and Gadzooks disappeared. But as David clanked his way through the tall iron gates and entered the gardens for the very first time, he couldn't shae off the bizzare idea that the dragon had been trying to tell him something.' WHOOOOOOOOAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!!! SUUUUUUUSSSSSSSSSSSSPPPPPPPEEEEEEEENNNNNNNSSSSSEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!! First of all: 1. Tall iron gates: In all my experience in being a bookworm, tall iron gates usually mean something leading to trouble- and it is waiting for the person getting through them! 2. The Dragons: At this point, someone might be confused about the dragons- well these are statues, ok? I won't tell you more, you'll just have to read it yourself! ...more I love this book and series very much, I had accidentally started with the second book back in middle school, bought it from the book fair and loved the first few chapters. Now I have never been a big reader so a few chapters was like how much I really seamed to read most my life(unless it was for school). But once I found out it was the second I stopped. Four/five years after I graduated and I still remember loving the book. So I get the first one and read the whole thing. It's not all about dra I love this book and series very much, I had accidentally started with the second book back in middle school, bought it from the book fair and loved the first few chapters. Now I have never been a big reader so a few chapters was like how much I really seamed to read most my life(unless it was for school). But once I found out it was the second I stopped. Four/five years after I graduated and I still remember loving the book. So I get the first one and read the whole thing. It's not all about dragons or the main character being a dragon. They are more like super awesome side/supporting characters. It has friendship and trust and a whole bunch of positivity. And you get to imagine cute little clay dragons flying about and being BOSS AS HECK!! But.. What I'm trying to say is, I love this book and series so much. And I just want to say it has been a wonderful experience reading them all, as to they have helped me actually start reading and finishing books again. They are just that interesting that I want to know everything that happens. Even if it does take me months to read one book. So, thank you. (: ...more", "Title": "The Fire Within"},
