{"Comments": "<+++>Scott Pilgrim, Volume 1: Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life</+++>4.5/5 I saw the movie adaptation a couple of years ago and,<---M> ever since then</---M>, I've wanted to start the graphic novels. I'm so happy that I finally did, because this definitely didn't disappoint! I liked it even more than the movie because the art is used in such a clever way, so different than any other graphic novel I've read before (I've only read Maus and Fun Home, but those were for school.) The humor was great as well and I already ordered the next volume so I can read it soon! Game on! This is the first book (in a series of six) of \u201c<---C>Scott Pilgrim</---C>\u201d saga. Creative Team: Creator, writer and illustrator: Bryan Lee O\u2019Malley AM I DREAMING? Um\u2026 am I dreaming? -- -- I\u2019ll leave you alone forever now.<---F> Thanks</---F>. My first contact with Scott Pilgrim \u2019s world was through the movie adaptation, that I wouldn\u2019t watch (at least not so soon as I did) if Mary Elizabeth Winstead (which I love) wouldn\u2019t be in the cast. And I would lost a lot! Since that movie rules! So bizarre, clever, excit Game on! This is the first book (in a series of six) of \u201cScott Pilgrim\u201d saga. Creative Team: Creator, writer and illustrator: Bryan Lee O\u2019Malley AM I DREAMING? Um\u2026 am I dreaming? -- -- I\u2019ll leave you alone forever now. Thanks. My first contact with Scott Pilgrim \u2019s world was through the movie adaptation, that I wouldn\u2019t watch (at least not so soon as I did) if Mary Elizabeth Winstead (which I love) wouldn\u2019t be in the cast. And I would lost a lot! Since that movie rules! So bizarre, clever, exciting and funny! Am I dreaming? This movie was just right for me! I was watching it again last week (I have it in DVD and Bluray, and yes I am keeping both editions since the DVD has a magenta background in its cover, and the Bluray has a blue background in its cover, and if you know the most basic things about Ramona Flowers (Mary Elizabeth Winstead\u2019s character) you well know that this is just wonderful and yes, I\u2019d need a future format edition in a green background, dang it!). So, I was watching once again the movie, and again I was thinking that I should read the original Canadian mangas (or are they comics? Whatever, dudes) and\u2026 \u2026in the following weekend I went to the XVII International Book Fair (a yearly book event in my country (Costa Rica)) and in a stand, there was a set with all 6 books (actually there were two sets, but it sounds more epic saying that there was just one set!) (and even with a special discount due the fair), am I dreaming? There it was just the right set of books waiting for me\u2026 \u2026 take my money and give me that set!!! And finally I am reading the epic saga. By the way, I am sure, some of you, are wondering, and the movie adaptation covers the six books in the series, so nope, it\u2019s not like the first book is the movie, and you\u2019d read other adventures in the other five books. Nope. The six books in the Canadian manga series are what you get in the movie (of course, you may expect some deeper detailing here and there, and different approaches to the scenes). PILGRIM\u2019S PATH What kind of tea do you want? There\u2019s more than one kind of tea? The world of Scott Pilgrim (story\u2019s main character) is a wacky one where silly things like physics\u2019 laws aren\u2019t quite existing so you can have the maximum level of fun there\u2026 \u2026So, this is a looney world when dream state highways can be a casual talk, 23-years old boys don\u2019t know the basics of internet and e-mail (trust me, that\u2019s not normal), and losing fighting dudes can turn into coins\u2026 \u2026yes, you heard me. Deal it. Chew it. Move on. Scott Pilgrim is a 23 years old dude, he lives in Toronto, Canada, he\u2019s between jobs and current bass player in a band, the Sex Bob-Omb (desperately trying to get a discographic contract). Scott has a roommate, Wallace Wells, gay, and Scott\u2019s voice of conscience. Scott\u2019s younger sister is Stacey Pilgrim and she\u2019s the other voice of conscience for Scott. Yep. You betcha that Scott needs all voices of conscience available. By the way, the Sex Bob-Omb are: Stephen Stills (the talent, guitar player and leader of the band), Kim Pine (drums) and (Young) Neil Nordegraf (biggest Sex Bob-Omb\u2019s fan (until Knives Chau (keep reading) comes in)). And at the beginning of the story, Scott just started to date a high schooler: Knives Chau, 17 years old, Chinese and in a Catholic school (yes, with uniform), so yeah, Scott has no shame, but technically that\u2019s not the problem, nope, life gets really complicated when Scott meets\u2026 \u2026 Ramona Flowers . Ramona Flowers, none disclosured age (in this first book) but clearly twenty-something, American, recently she moved to Canada, and she\u2019s the only delivery girl in Toronto\u2019s downtown area for Amazon.ca. She wears cool outfits and has magenta colored hair (later she\u2019d changing the color to blue and later to green) and she travels in rollerblades. Gorgeous. Smart. Cool. Perfect. (It helps that beyond the basic manga appearance, I keep thinking in Mary Elizabeth Winstead\u2019s version). Oh, and she\u2019s the best living blanket ever in the history of mangas (and movies by the way). Oooh, yeah. But if you think that complications are due Scott is so lame to start dating Ramona without officially breaking up with Knives, nope, that\u2019s not it\u2026 \u2026Oh, don\u2019t get me wrong, double dating (especially if one of them is an underage girl) is still a very douchebag thing to do (I like Scott, but men shouldn\u2019t do that to women (and viceversa)), but, nope, that\u2019s not the new complication factor introduced in Scott Pilgrim\u2019s life\u2026 ENTER THE LEAGUE You dated seven evil dudes? Not all at once! Everybody has a past. It\u2019s impossible that you meet new people in your life without being certain that that new people have a past. Scott has a past (that we all get to know in the following books in the series). And Ramona has a past too. The problem with Ramona\u2019s past is that it (literally) follows her and interferes with any chance for her of newer romantic relationships. The League of Seven Evil Ex-boyfriends is a non-profit organization, homebased in America (but currently expanding to Canadian territory) with a single marketing goal: To destroy any newer boyfriend in Ramona Flowers\u2019 life. Oh, and if you think that that was bad enough, nope, that\u2019s not the worst part\u2026 \u2026wait for it\u2026 \u2026keep waiting a little longer\u2026 \u2026the seven members of the League of Seven Evil Ex-boyfriends have super powers\u2026 \u2026yes, you heard (well, read actually) right\u2026 \u2026super powers! I told you that physics\u2019 laws left the building for good! In this first book, you\u2019ll meet Matthew Pattel, with mystical powers and decided to fight against Scott Pilgrim. But, even for an evil ex-boyfriend, Pattel is quite fair and he sent two letters, one per e-mail and one per snail mail (yes, people still do that! That\u2019s not something up in this wacky world), too bad that Scott found boring to read anything, even if they\u2019re death threat warnings! So\u2026 Open your eyes up\u2026 Maybe you\u2019ll see\u2026 Scott Pilgrim\u2019s world!!! ...more DNF at page 54 . (This was exactly what I was feeling while reading Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life .) I actually tried watching the movie a while back, but it made me really, really uncomfortable. And the same happened while reading the graphic novel. I wanted to read it because I really liked Seconds , but I guess I somehow forgot that the movie was based off of a graphic novel. And I hadn\u2019t made the connection between the two until I started reading and feeling really (and I mean really) une DNF at page 54 . (This was exactly what I was feeling while reading Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life .) I actually tried watching the movie a while back, but it made me really, really uncomfortable. And the same happened while reading the graphic novel. I wanted to read it because I really liked Seconds , but I guess I somehow forgot that the movie was based off of a graphic novel. And I hadn\u2019t made the connection between the two until I started reading and feeling really (and I mean really) uneasy. I was uncomfortable with the fact that Scott Pilgrim, a 23 year old, was dating a high schooler. I just personally can\u2019t stand by that (even if he is incredibly immature). I mean, just looking at him waiting for Knives to finish her day at school made me want to throw up a little. Never has a book made me this physically uncomfortable. Wow . I was so close to giving up after this section and I kept thinking, \"I don\u2019t hate myself this much, I can put it down.\" Maybe it\u2019s a personal thing, but I just can\u2019t get over how uncomfortable my reading experience was. Example number 20 of Scott's immaturity: Really, \u2018no girls allowed\u2019??? How old are you??? I was holding on for it to get better, but then stuff like this gets thrown in, and I\u2019m just not about that life. There wasn't even one likeable character. ONE. I\u2019m truly perplexed at how different Seconds is compared to this catastrophe. Even the humor is on extremely different levels. I just don't get how the same person wrote this. *Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate. If you're interested in buying Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life , just click on the image below to go through my link. I'll make a small commission!* This review and more can be found on my blog. ...more I FREAKING LOVED THIS. The art was used SO cleverly which my graphic design mind loved and is probably one of the reasons I liked it so much. I've seen the movie so I had a little more to go off of when reading this, but I was surprised to find I loved it maybe more than the movie? It's so quirky and wonderful and just so much good stuff wrapped into one thing. SO GOOD. I debated what to rate this graphic novel. On the one hand, the characters are thoroughly unlikable. Scott Pilgrim is a vapid, useless lump of a man who is dating a high schooler because that's the level of his maturity/emotional intelligence. Ramona Flowers is standoffish and rude because it makes her look \"cool\". The only redeeming character was Wallace, the gay roommate. On the other hand, once introductions got over, during the last scene of the book (the concert and Scott's fight with the f I debated what to rate this graphic novel. On the one hand, the characters are thoroughly unlikable. Scott Pilgrim is a vapid, useless lump of a man who is dating a high schooler because that's the level of his maturity/emotional intelligence. Ramona Flowers is standoffish and rude because it makes her look \"cool\". The only redeeming character was Wallace, the gay roommate. On the other hand, once introductions got over, during the last scene of the book (the concert and Scott's fight with the first evil ex-boyfriend) I really started to like this quirky, little story. The art is definitely not a factor -- the drawings are little more than scribbles on the page and I daresay I could probably do just as well. I will probably continue reading to find out what happens. And when the movie comes out, I'll probably see it... I now believe that Michael Cera was brilliant casting for Scott Pilgrim's character, because I hate Michael Cera with a passion, too. Perhaps one of Ramona's evil ex boyfriends will triumph? One can only hope. Edited to add: Three years later, I decided to revisit this review, as it has occasionally garnered some comments from people annoyed at my audacity to hold an opinion. I'm not going to change my rating because my opinion stands firm. I really *didn't* care greatly for the first volume of Scott Pilgrim. But I also went on to read all the subsequent volumes...and fell in love with the series, the characters (maybe not Scott... I still kind of dislike him...), and yes, even the artwork. I even enjoyed the movie (except for Michael Cera... I still hate him, too). So anyone thinking about starting this series? DO... and keep going, even if the first one doesn't dazzle you like it didn't dazzle me. ...more Scott Pilgrim is so how I see the world. I\u2019m sure it\u2019s because of the years of doing almost nothing but playing Mario Bros in my childhood, but the levels and energy bars and coins, etc. as applied to mundane life things are so perfect to me. Also, the characters. Oh, the characters. Scott Pilgrim is such a rad character because he is so douchey, but still somewhat sympathetic, and everyone spends the whole story pointing out his doucheyness. I just really love a story that calls a douche a douc Scott Pilgrim is so how I see the world. I\u2019m sure it\u2019s because of the years of doing almost nothing but playing Mario Bros in my childhood, but the levels and energy bars and coins, etc. as applied to mundane life things are so perfect to me. Also, the characters. Oh, the characters. Scott Pilgrim is such a rad character because he is so douchey, but still somewhat sympathetic, and everyone spends the whole story pointing out his doucheyness. I just really love a story that calls a douche a douche. This volume only gets so far as Scott fighting Ramona\u2019s first evil ex. Scott is a little more boyish in this and a little less emo than Michael Cera, and I think both versions are pretty fun. For the most part, the movie follows this volume exactly, though the movie adds a few things that I think are hilarious \u2013 like Scott and Knives at the arcade, Scott\u2019s story about Pac Man, and the way Scott describes Ramona\u2019s hair. Maybe the arcade stuff happens later, but I could see how that would be easier to pull off on film than in a graphic novel. I\u2019ve been reading a lot of graphic novels lately, mostly because people have given me a lot of them for some reason. This is one of my favorites because I think it is so clever. I don\u2019t know if I would like it as much if I hadn\u2019t seen the movie, but it\u2019s hard to say. I think one of the things that I find sort of subtly hilarious in this story is how these insane male wish-fulfillment dreams will get fulfilled in the story, and Scott only reacts in a somewhat douchey way, but nobody freaks out. Like, battle of the bands is literally a Street Fighter-style cage match in which the music turns into monsters that fight each other, and Scott returns to the old, \u201cWell, I knew I rocked, but I was not aware that we rocked collectively,\u201d attitude. So brilliant. Is this because I have a little brother? And Scott reminds me of my little brother? Is that why I think this is so funny? Because all of Scott's conversations with his sister are so hilarious to me. Digression: I saw the movie two or three times in the theater. One of the times was when I dragged my brother to see it, and he fully appreciated its genius, as I knew he would. Both (all?) times I saw it, the theater showed a preview for that movie Devil , and as the preview was showing people (including me) were like, \"WTH??? What is this movie about? Oh my god, this looks so ridiculous,\" and then it would show M. NIGHT SHYAMALAN across the screen, and the whole theater would go, \"Ohhhhhhhahahahaha!\" American zeitgeist. I don\u2019t really think graphic novels are my thing. Maybe Persepolis is my thing, but in general I find them kind of boring. This wasn\u2019t boring, but I don\u2019t know if that was in large part because I knew what jokes were coming up. I love Kim a lot. I must watch this movie again soon. _______________________ I received a copy of this from Netgalley. ...more This wasn't so bad, but that cover sucks. I'm not that fond of reading contemporary novels, and it's no different with graphic novels. This had a simple plot, and nothing made it amazing for me. The artwork was decent, but I've seen way better. People have been recommending this everywhere, so I decided to finally give it a try. It's honestly not that bad, it would appeal more to the contemporary readers. I'm still interested to continue on with the series though. There's this mysterious thing ab This wasn't so bad, but that cover sucks. I'm not that fond of reading contemporary novels, and it's no different with graphic novels. This had a simple plot, and nothing made it amazing for me. The artwork was decent, but I've seen way better. People have been recommending this everywhere, so I decided to finally give it a try. It's honestly not that bad, it would appeal more to the contemporary readers. I'm still interested to continue on with the series though. There's this mysterious thing about a certain character which I'm not going to name to avoid possible spoilers. 3/5 stars. Not something I would recommend normally, but go ahead and give it a try. You'll most probably enjoy this more than I did. ...more \u201cScott Pilgrim is dating a high schooler!\u201d - so begins one of the finest comics sagas of all time. I\u2019ve read Bryan Lee O\u2019Malley\u2019s Scott Pilgrim before, seen the (extremely faithful) Edgar Wright movie adaptation, and have just re-read it (this time in colour), and the comic still blows me away with its quality. Reading the same story the third time around and it\u2019s not boring in the least. It even somehow feels fresh despite having been published in 2004! On paper the story seems like no great sh \u201cScott Pilgrim is dating a high schooler!\u201d - so begins one of the finest comics sagas of all time. I\u2019ve read Bryan Lee O\u2019Malley\u2019s Scott Pilgrim before, seen the (extremely faithful) Edgar Wright movie adaptation, and have just re-read it (this time in colour), and the comic still blows me away with its quality. Reading the same story the third time around and it\u2019s not boring in the least. It even somehow feels fresh despite having been published in 2004! On paper the story seems like no great shakes: 23 year old Scott is dating 17 year old Knives Chau, the aforementioned high schooler, (nothing funny, just holding hands), and then he meets Ramona Flowers, his literal dream girl whom he falls hard for. Just one catch: he\u2019s gotta fight her 7 evil exes. And of course break up with poor unsuspecting Knives! It\u2019s comedy romance mixed in with a Shonen Jump-style fight manga but the comic transcends the sum of its parts. O\u2019Malley\u2019s dialogue perfectly captures how young people in their late teens/early twenties talk albeit making them all very entertaining conversationalists. I\u2019m sure it helped that he was in his early twenties when he wrote/drew this, but even then there\u2019s a skill here with the writing and art that belies his (then) age. There\u2019s very witty and warm-hearted humour that utilises the visual comics format well too - adding captions in a scene to emphasise how poor Scott is when in his and Wallace\u2019s flat. The script is funny and fun and real and fantastical all at the same time - brilliant! Their names don\u2019t bother me, nor the fact that the characters are all hipsters, that\u2019s how good this comic is! It\u2019s hard to describe how little seems to happen and yet it feels like so much is happening. The opening sequence is: 1) Scott and his friends in the kitchen talking, 2) Scott and Knives\u2019 (intentionally) mundane meet-cute, 3) Wallace Wells (Scott\u2019s gay flatmate) is introduced, 4) Scott introduces Knives to his band Sex Bob-Omb and they play a song. That\u2019s it. Hardly anything really and YET - there\u2019s so much energy, vibrancy, and urgency in these pages that\u2019s indicative of the rest of the book (and series). It crackles with originality. O\u2019Malley creates great characters and a helluva good story - Scott proving his love for Ramona in a way suited to his character and exciting to read too - but more than that, he captures the experience of being young and in love. That\u2019s special. That\u2019s something I\u2019ve yet to come across in any other comic and that\u2019s how you know you\u2019re in the presence of a truly unique and obscenely talented voice. There\u2019s not a single thing I could say I dislike about this book. Every scene brings it - not an ounce of fat is there to be found here! There are so many great moments, from Scott stalking Ramona at the party, to their first kiss, the battle of the bands against Crash and the Boys, the first evil ex, Matthew Patel, and their epic, synchronised fight. Ramona talking about using a shortcut through Scott\u2019s mind to explain why he\u2019s been dreaming about her is utterly bizarre but also fit perfectly into the tone of the book. O\u2019Malley tosses in an occasional pop culture reference but it never overwhelms the story (Ernest Cline, take note!). Nathan Fairbairn\u2019s colours are nice but the story was just as powerful in the original black and white so whichever version you read, the comic is still awesome. There are other creators who excel in both roles of writer and artist and have created startlingly original works - Frank Miller\u2019s Sin City, David Lapham\u2019s Stray Bullets, Eric Powell\u2019s The Goon, Jeff Smith\u2019s Bone, Akira Toriyama\u2019s Dragon Ball, and Gilbert Hernandez\u2019s Palomar stories - and Bryan Lee O\u2019Malley\u2019s Scott Pilgrim easily joins these elite ranks. Scott Pilgrim is about as flawless a comic as I can recommend to anyone. Whether you read comics or don\u2019t, it\u2019s absolutely worth reading. Scott Pilgrim\u2019s Precious Little Life doesn\u2019t age and wins over everyone who reads it - an instant classic and one of the best examples of the comics art form! ...more Buying all of them, what can I say?! Am I too old to like Scott Pilgrim ? I just don't care for a main character who is in his twenties, has no job, sleeps (the zzzzzzzz kind) with his roomate, dates a high school girl and cheats on her with a kinda cool delivery girl. How is this guy attractive to women at all? Back in my day... This graphic novel made me feel old. Scott Pilgrim is a bit of a dick and it is hard to cheer for him when he is fighting his girlfriends ex boyfriends. I think the only way the author manages to make us on his Am I too old to like Scott Pilgrim ? I just don't care for a main character who is in his twenties, has no job, sleeps (the zzzzzzzz kind) with his roomate, dates a high school girl and cheats on her with a kinda cool delivery girl. How is this guy attractive to women at all? Back in my day... This graphic novel made me feel old. Scott Pilgrim is a bit of a dick and it is hard to cheer for him when he is fighting his girlfriends ex boyfriends. I think the only way the author manages to make us on his side is to make the ex boyfriends even more of a tool. I guess I read this (probably a few years after the hype) to see what the kids are all talking about. But it isn't all bad and does deserve the 2-star \"it was OK\" rating. Good to read when you are tired and can't think. ...more After the slow trudge through Shelley's 'The Last Man', I decided to switch to some lighter fare. It's about time I got back to my comic book to-read pile, anyways. So I pulled out Scott Pilgrim. I've heard a lot about the book in comic book circles, and it's been overwhelmingly positive. Despite this, I've been somewhat wary of the 'trendy hipster' label it's been saddled with, but that gets thrown around too much, and I figured beyond the trendy elements, I'd get snatched up by something deeper After the slow trudge through Shelley's 'The Last Man', I decided to switch to some lighter fare. It's about time I got back to my comic book to-read pile, anyways. So I pulled out Scott Pilgrim. I've heard a lot about the book in comic book circles, and it's been overwhelmingly positive. Despite this, I've been somewhat wary of the 'trendy hipster' label it's been saddled with, but that gets thrown around too much, and I figured beyond the trendy elements, I'd get snatched up by something deeper in the story or characterization, something to intrigue and beguile. So far, no such luck. It's reminiscent of 'Nick and Nora's Infinite Playlist', a movie I tired of about halfway through. Both of them are trying to be cutesy, quirky, ironic, and referential, but it's all very deliberate. I never felt there was a quick, complex mind at the helm, and with modern, referential humor, it's all about the delivery and the originality. Perhaps by this point, that type of humor has simply become structured and predictable, entering the mainstream and losing it's punch, like Jerry Seinfeld talking about airline food. Both Nick and Nora's and Scott Pilgrim were by-the-book quirky. Both also had somewhat unsettling homophobic overtones, playing off gay characters and same-sex romance for jokes. It's nice to have more openly gay characters in YA media, but not as thin, walking punchlines. It was much worse in 'Infinite Playlist', but there was still a persistent undercurrent of homosocial discomfort. The book was also very reminiscent of FLCL, from the mysterious, begoggled, badass delivery girl arriving to complicate the (sex) life of our oblivious jerk protagonist to the naive, sweet girl caught up in it all. Then the overt homages to manga and videogames start to trickle in, infesting the seemingly normal world of the comic with magic, fights, and all the rest. Yet unlike FLCL, this was not a rollicking, take-no-prisoners, psychedelic reimagining of a genre, it was just a dull story about annoying people occasionally perked up by in-joke fight scenes. The musical obsession was another shared thread, right down to the same characteristic Rickenbacker. It's not quite a parody, not quite an homage, and by refusing to take a stand, ends up with little to stand on. Then again, when \"do you remember that family guy bit . . .\" passes for a joke and \"do you remember NES? Me too!\" passes for a story, you can't expect much from the writing. The characters were the sort of dull, naive, self-absorbed people that I spent high school and college avoiding, right down to the fratboy favorite lipstick lesbian poster on the wall and an undying reverence for whatever bands Pitchfork told you to listen to this week. They're the sorts of people who would gush \"my tastes are eclectic\" followed by \"music is my lifesblood\" without a hint of irony. Scott himself is a mess, and yet without being either sympathetic or complex. He's definitely got that Holden Caulfield \"woe-is-me, it's not my fault I'm an asshole\" vibe. I was hoping this volume was just setting up something more interesting for the future issues--I understand it can take an author a little while to get their feet under them--but having read through volume six, it's mostly setup with little payoff. It does get gradually better, especially after O'Malley hires on some other artists, but not enough to make reading it worthwhile. The art was so-so: not bad enough to distract, not good enough to stand out. I'm all for independent B&W comics, from Jhonen to Miller, Sim, Eastman and Laird, Clowes, Hernandez, Kurtzman, Crumb, and Cho but if this is all we get, I'm less than impressed. My Suggested Reading In Comics ...more Read on the WondrousBooks blog. I watched the Scott Pilgrim vs. the World movie years ago and it was real love. For a while it topped the \u201cJeannette\u2019s Favourite Movies\u201d list. (Even as I\u2019m writing this, I have a strong urge to re-watch it.) Therefore, it\u2019s probably completely understandable that I absolutely loved this book. It was fan-tastic! And obviously while they were making the movie, they paid huge attention to detail, because even though I had forgotten some moments and scenes, it was s Read on the WondrousBooks blog. I watched the Scott Pilgrim vs. the World movie years ago and it was real love. For a while it topped the \u201cJeannette\u2019s Favourite Movies\u201d list. (Even as I\u2019m writing this, I have a strong urge to re-watch it.) Therefore, it\u2019s probably completely understandable that I absolutely loved this book. It was fan-tastic! And obviously while they were making the movie, they paid huge attention to detail, because even though I had forgotten some moments and scenes, it was so easy to re-imagine everything in color and with the actual actors, simply because every scene was executed precisely as it was drawn. The story is obviously hilariously awesome, all of the characters are such weirdos, it\u2019s so good. I loved the dry humor and the sarcastic remarks to a degree in which I felt like all of the characters are my soulmates at one point or another. To be honest, out of all of them, Scott is not my favourite by far. However that might be part of the point. As well as having the readers love Ramona. Because that I did. She\u2019s so cool. I totally feel like a Ramona sometimes, she\u2019s the relatable hipster girl we were or tried to be in high school. (Though I don\u2019t approve of her choice of boyfriends. Somehow.) I\u2019m now really looking forward to finding the other parts of the series, since I was loaned this one. Fingers crossed. (Also, I feel like I should mention that this is the second graphic novel I\u2019ve read in my life, after Persepolis\u2026 Well, I read a Donald Duck thing when I was a kid, but come on\u2026 And anyway, I\u2019m starting to feel a love for graphic novels. They are just too fun .) ...more You know how sometimes writers want to please everyone? So they end up creating something like a genre-salad and its usually bad. Here we have the same thing but it works, it works so freaking well. First of all the art is a combination of manga and classic comics style. Now to the story. It starts like a music romance-comedy and then out of nowhere comes out a fighting scene!! Oh and I just love how his opponent drops money after he defeat him. The story is about Scott, a 23 year old boy who\u2019s a You know how sometimes writers want to please everyone? So they end up creating something like a genre-salad and its usually bad. Here we have the same thing but it works, it works so freaking well. First of all the art is a combination of manga and classic comics style. Now to the story. It starts like a music romance-comedy and then out of nowhere comes out a fighting scene!! Oh and I just love how his opponent drops money after he defeat him. The story is about Scott, a 23 year old boy who\u2019s a little immature. He lives in a very small house with a guy named Wallace, they also share the same bed!! What? They don\u2019t have the money to buy another one, they don\u2019t even have a table. Anyways Scott personal life is going quite good too, he\u2019s dating a 17 year old high school girl ( Knives ) and things are going pretty well. Nothing last forever and one day Scott meets the girl of his dreams ( Ramona ), seriously he dreamed her first and then saw her in real life. Naturally he wants to meet her. They match so he wants to stop dating Knives ( but hasn't told her yet ). That\u2019s it, they lived happily ever after\u2026\u2026sorry they will live happily ever after if he defeats Ramona\u2019s evil ex-boyfriends. I\u2019ve seen the movie ( it\u2019s good btw ) but this is better. It knock me out image: ...more Before I begin I just like to say was no doubt and hesitation that this is probably one of the best comic books ever! Why is this book so good? Its fun, it's funny, it's clever and it leaves you wanting more. If you love relationship books you will love this book, if you love books that make you laugh you will love this book, if you love comic books in general you will love this book! The story centers around\u2026. Well\u2026. Scott Pilgrim. Scott lives in Toronto Canada which for me having grown up in Tor Before I begin I just like to say was no doubt and hesitation that this is probably one of the best comic books ever! Why is this book so good? Its fun, it's funny, it's clever and it leaves you wanting more. If you love relationship books you will love this book, if you love books that make you laugh you will love this book, if you love comic books in general you will love this book! The story centers around\u2026. Well\u2026. Scott Pilgrim. Scott lives in Toronto Canada which for me having grown up in Toronto Canada with most of my family there makes it even more enjoyable. The places he goes to are real places that I've been to and it makes it all the more enjoyable, but I'm getting sidetracked, Scott has cool friends, in a rock band, Scott likes video games, he is in between jobs and dating a high schooler life couldn't be better, then Ramona Flowers walks in. Ramona flowers is an American girl who is very cool and won't get out of Scott\u2019s dreams. Naturally he becomes obsessed with her as she turns his awesome life upside down. This is very relatable, we all at one point or a another have been obsessed with someone, we dream about them, we can't get them out of our heads. We say stupid things or do stupid things in front of them. It is something that I have never really seen explored well in comics before and here it's very believable. This is the main part of the book which any of you like myself are suckers for relationship stories, this is a good one as Scott have to deal with this new interesting girl in his life and his high school girlfriend. One is cool and interesting and older while the other one is sweet and fun, the dilemma is fun to read with lots of comedic problems along the way. Seriously, when I read the first book I was in a very public place and sometimes as I was reading I burst out in laughter right there in front of everybody and couldn't read the book for another five to ten minutes as I calmed down getting weird looks from everybody. Not enough books are like this and it's great when you find it. A book that generally makes you laugh and feel something is always awesome in my book. The art is simple but effective, it's not spectacular but gets the job done and amazingly the expressions and attitudes of the many colorful characters are captured extremely well for so simple and art style it's really quite impressive. Well I could gush about this book all day because it's excellent! But the greatest compliment I can give it is that after I read it and immensely enjoyed it, I read it three times over again and after that immediately went to my shop and bought the next two books and read those as well three times over in the space of about two days! I can't recommend this book enough and the next two are equally as good as the first one so there's no drastic change in quality they're all very good and I highly highly recommend it. Oh! I'm forgetting something; there is a very very sharp left turn at the end of this book. While most left turns bother me the style of this book and it humor really made it acceptable in my eyes and did not disturb the read too much. As a matter of fact for me it made it more interesting and more eager to get the next one, now with the fourth book somewhere around the corner I am left with constant anxiety as I need my Scott fix it's just that good. ...more Lovely mix of Hornbyesque Lad lit, Steven Chow style comedy, and Simon & Garfunklesque post adolescent melancholy. Worked nicely as a palate cleanser after the wrist slitter that was Into The Wild. It's funny and imaginitave without being twee, honest without being obvious, and sweetly sad without drowning in ennui. It's a precious little book. Even if like me comics aren't quite your thing. I can't believe it's been ten years since Scott Pilgrim was published and at least five since I discovered <---A>Bryan Lee O'Malley</---A>'s truly original concept. I've started rereading this series earlier today and it was just as fresh as I discovered. Scott Pilgrim was this shallow guy dating high school girls and mooching off his roommate; but one could just not help root for him. Especially when he falls for the mysterious Ramona Flowers and because now he started dating her, now has to fight her seven I can't believe it's been ten years since Scott Pilgrim was published and at least five since I discovered Bryan Lee O'Malley's truly original concept. I've started rereading this series earlier today and it was just as fresh as I discovered. Scott Pilgrim was this shallow guy dating high school girls and mooching off his roommate; but one could just not help root for him. Especially when he falls for the mysterious Ramona Flowers and because now he started dating her, now has to fight her seven exes. The storytelling was truly original; reading it evoked of computer games one used to play in a gaming console. In fact, fighting Ramona's exes in succession reminded me of boss fights in Final Fantasy or any other similar role playing game. A vanquished disappearing in a pile of coins completed the video game conceit. Video games were not the only pop culture O'Malley drew on. Comics were constantly referred and it appears that the author was great fan of the X-Men. It will be great to read this series again. Although I may no longer the original feeling when I first discovered this book, it is close enough. ...more A good start. I actually thought I might find this comic bit boring since I already watched the movie but both writing and art style are different enough to make comic completely different experience. Which one is better?I am not sure yet.I will make my judgement when when I finish series. Also I hated O'Malley's illustrations in Seconds but it didn't bother me here for some reason even though they are nearly same. I guess they fit better in weird world of Scott PIlgrim than in more mature themed A good start. I actually thought I might find this comic bit boring since I already watched the movie but both writing and art style are different enough to make comic completely different experience. Which one is better?I am not sure yet.I will make my judgement when when I finish series. Also I hated O'Malley's illustrations in Seconds but it didn't bother me here for some reason even though they are nearly same. I guess they fit better in weird world of Scott PIlgrim than in more mature themed Seconds. ...more Wow Scott is a real dick. Having a girlfriend and then going for another girl? Seriously? I hate that kind of attitude in books/manga/graphic novels so this is -2 stars for that. -1 star for the slightly boring story. I have been meaning to read this book/comic for some time, lots of people seem to like it and I loved Bryan Lee O'Malley's previous book named: Seconds. However this was just a disappointment. We have a main character named Scott Pilgrim and he is pretty useless. Lives with a friend, Wow Scott is a real dick. Having a girlfriend and then going for another girl? Seriously? I hate that kind of attitude in books/manga/graphic novels so this is -2 stars for that. -1 star for the slightly boring story. I have been meaning to read this book/comic for some time, lots of people seem to like it and I loved Bryan Lee O'Malley's previous book named: Seconds. However this was just a disappointment. We have a main character named Scott Pilgrim and he is pretty useless. Lives with a friend, sleeps in the same \"bed\", most of the stuff in said house is from the friend, and I haven't seen him do anything that might hint to work/college/or something else. It seems he sleeps, drinks, sleeps, goes out on dates with his girlfriend, sleeps, band, band and band. He seemed healthy enough to be able to work or go to college, so I am kind of wondering why he is like this. Then we have his whole attitude of I-am-cool/awesome-and-the-rest-of-you-suck-or-aren't-that-awesome. Or his whole attitude regarding girls. He is dating a girl, a high-school girl at that (wth?, isn't this kind of illegal?) and while he is dating her, he is also falling for another girl named Ramona. Who apparently pops up for no reason in his dreams. He asks her to date and he even makes out/has sex with her while STILL in a relationship with his high-school girl. Dude, NO, just NO. You can't have both and you need to stop being such a dick. That High-school girl (btw, who the hell names their kid Knives) deserves better. A boyfriend worthy of her, not a dick who thinks he is so awesome and in the mean time fucks other girls. Seriously I don't get why people like this kind of behaviour in books or any other media. I hate cheating, I hate dishonesty in a relationship. And like I said in the first part, I am deducting lots of points because of that. If that wasn't bad enough we suddenly get battle scenes in the second part???? Hold on, how did we go from: -Useless guy dates 2 girls, meanwhile has no life- to full battle mode and magics and all that? Seriously? These guys are Ramona's exes? What about the word EX do they not understand? EX-boyfriend means you aren't her boyfriend any more, and that you have no more say on with whom she goes out with. So why the battles? It is silly and it murdered the parts I liked about the book. I was so ready to drop the book when it turned out the whole second part was about him defeating Ramona's precious exes. Also did he ever break up with Knives? I can't remember in my fury towards the crappy second part. The art was only decent. Nothing really special. All in all, I wouldn't recommend this book. Review first posted at http://twirlingbookprincess.com/ ...more Well that was different! Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life is a funny graphic novel to review, not because it was laugh out loud funny but because it was a bit 'meh'. I have had time to reflect upon it, and having originally awarded it 4 stars, I have downgraded it to 3. There are several reasons why I have done this: 1) Despite O'Malley's cute illustrations, most of his characters look the same, and unless he drastically changes their hair, their facial features are mirrors of each other. Thes Well that was different! Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life is a funny graphic novel to review, not because it was laugh out loud funny but because it was a bit 'meh'. I have had time to reflect upon it, and having originally awarded it 4 stars, I have downgraded it to 3. There are several reasons why I have done this: 1) Despite O'Malley's cute illustrations, most of his characters look the same, and unless he drastically changes their hair, their facial features are mirrors of each other. These is incredibly confusing from a reader's perspective - half the time, I had to figure out if I was following Scott or one of his friends :/ 2) I just didn't find it funny. The humour at times is kind of puerile, and I do love to entertain silliness every now and again, but I just didn't like the story. 3) I had a huge problem with the protagonist, Scott Pilgrim. He is a very unlikeable character - conceited, heartless (where Knives Chau is concerned) and very self-important. I didn't warm to him at all and I think Knives and Ramona are better off without him. 4) There was no real exposition - for example, Ramona's ex-boyfriends knew they had to fight Scott, but WHY? Where did this come from? Similarly, why did Scott just accept the fact that he had to fight her evil exes? IT MAKES NO SENSE!!! Why is Scott such a good fighter? Why don't we see him training, or provide some sort of back story to make sense of this? Everyone just seems to accept whatever is thrown at them and I really don't like that. You have to establish the setting/set-up early on and this really wasn't the case with SP. Having read Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life, I doubt I'm going to read any more. It left me feeling annoyed that the exposition wasn't there. I have tried reading O'Malley's stuff before (Lost at Sea) but again, I didn't really like that. He's a great artist, his characters are very cute, but he needs to differentiate between them. Also, I just don't really enjoy his storytelling. ...more It was fun but not wow for me. I'm looking forward to reading the rest though! I didn't like it (^_^). 2.5 Stars This is one comic series that everybody seems to love so I finally decided to pick it up and... meh. I guess maybe I'm a bit too cynical for the lightness, cuteness and quirkiness? I was actually having a great time with the first chapter ''Scott Pilgrim is dating a high schooler!'' I really enjoyed the contemporary element in the story and the cast of characters were all quite fun. I immediately liked a lot of them and the jokes worked great, so, of course, I thought I was going to love 2.5 Stars This is one comic series that everybody seems to love so I finally decided to pick it up and... meh. I guess maybe I'm a bit too cynical for the lightness, cuteness and quirkiness? I was actually having a great time with the first chapter ''Scott Pilgrim is dating a high schooler!'' I really enjoyed the contemporary element in the story and the cast of characters were all quite fun. I immediately liked a lot of them and the jokes worked great, so, of course, I thought I was going to love this... well, not so much . The fun ends halfway through when Ramona enters the story, specifically, when Scott and Ramona start going out. Ramona is the oh-so- cool , interesting and mysterious character, the girl that without any good reason appears in Scott's dreams... she just doesn't work for me because her uniqueness feels so forced and when Scott meets her he becomes a dull, kind of a dick character so, for me, the story loses its charm. Obviously, I don't like them together, which is unfortunate because them being together is the most important element of the story. What's surprising is that Scott and Ramona dating isn't the most annoying thing in the story, nope, that comes later when the plot of the seven evil ex boyfriends start. That's the point where I completely lost my interest. The same thing happened when I watched the movie years ago, I guess I just don't care, this weird, silly plot doesn't appeal to me. If you think O' Malley was trying hard before to be cutesy and original and quirky, well things get so much worse with the videogame references and the super dumb, out of nowhere, battle at the end. I didn't like the cheating, I didn't like the ''if you want to date my ex girlfriend you'll have to fight me and her other exes'' wtf is that shit?! I didn't like the overall treatment of Knives and her sudden change of appearance just so Scott could like her more and how everyone decides to ignore her (except for Wallace, Wallace you're cool dude. ) At the end of this volume I had zero sympathy for Scott and no interest in continuing the story, which, I feel obliged to do because I bought the box set more than a year ago. Look, there are more than a couple of funny lines and the simple artwork goes perfectly with the story. It actually enhanced the humor and quirkiness of the comic. But Scott Pilgrim just didn't work for me, I was at some point irritated, frustrated and actually clueless as to why this is one of the most beloved titles out there. ...more (DISTANCE SHOT. MANNY is typing on his laptop) MANNY: (typing) It's EXACTLY the same as the first half of the movie Scott Pilgrim Versus The World . Just uncannily like. Except that it isn't as well-drawn or funny. (NEW ANGLE. More typing) MANNY: (typing) To be honest, I feel a little ripped-off. I know that's completely illogical since the book came first, and I should be, you know, like praising its originality and wit, without which the movie would never have been. But all the same. (CLOSE-UP. MA (DISTANCE SHOT. MANNY is typing on his laptop) MANNY: (typing) It's EXACTLY the same as the first half of the movie Scott Pilgrim Versus The World . Just uncannily like. Except that it isn't as well-drawn or funny. (NEW ANGLE. More typing) MANNY: (typing) To be honest, I feel a little ripped-off. I know that's completely illogical since the book came first, and I should be, you know, like praising its originality and wit, without which the movie would never have been. But all the same. (CLOSE-UP. MANNY turns to camera) MANNY: Hey, here's an odd thing: I suddenly like the movie a lot more. How did that happen? (EXTREME CLOSE-UP. MANNY, huge eyes open wide in bewilderment) MANNY: Am I dreaming? ...more This is so much better than the movie! The fact that the movie contained pretty much THE WHOLE FREAKING SCOTT PILGRIM SERIES CRAMMED INTO ONE ..I really enjoyed reading this. The transition in this book is very very very entertaining especially Scott's humor. I just love Wallace and Scott's relationship as bffs or brothers hahaha especially the time when they first met!! The movie is awesome and action-packed and amazing I'm really a fan of it! But it will never ever ever surpass the feel of readin This is so much better than the movie! The fact that the movie contained pretty much THE WHOLE FREAKING SCOTT PILGRIM SERIES CRAMMED INTO ONE ..I really enjoyed reading this. The transition in this book is very very very entertaining especially Scott's humor. I just love Wallace and Scott's relationship as bffs or brothers hahaha especially the time when they first met!! The movie is awesome and action-packed and amazing I'm really a fan of it! But it will never ever ever surpass the feel of reading this series. ...more Not really sure. Perhaps I'm just not cool enough to enjoy this book, as it wasn't anything great to me. I can imagine other people liking it, though, even if I may look down upon them because of that. First of all, the story was rather dull. I'm not against love stories, but to make them interesting, you should firstly make me care about the characters. Unfortunately, I didn't, they were all those people that spend their lives on being cool - maybe we didn't have any common ground. Well, I've k Not really sure. Perhaps I'm just not cool enough to enjoy this book, as it wasn't anything great to me. I can imagine other people liking it, though, even if I may look down upon them because of that. First of all, the story was rather dull. I'm not against love stories, but to make them interesting, you should firstly make me care about the characters. Unfortunately, I didn't, they were all those people that spend their lives on being cool - maybe we didn't have any common ground. Well, I've kind of got to like Wallace, but that's basically it. Secondly, this comic tried very hard to be ironic and funny. Okay, I smiled a few times, but nothing more. Humor presented was no better than of an average TV show, which is... low. Also, there was nothing nerdy in it (come on, are not nerdy, it isn't the 90s anymore), even though it was implied. All in all, the best word to describe my attitude to Scott Pilgrim is wannabe. Wannabe humor and nerdiness. Still, at least it was a quick read and I might even read next books, maybe the plot will advance and make up for things that bug me. And, by the way, in what way was Scott or his life awesome? ...more Scott Pilgrim is a light manga-style comic about the eponymous 23 year old slacker musician who is dating a 17yo high school student Knife and meets another new girl, Ramona Flowers. The story takes place in Toronto and this is the first of 6 books in the series. I liked the rapid fire millennial dialog between the characters and especially the crazy ending (no spoilers!). Ok, the plot is not particularly complex but the characters are fun and endearing and the manga style black and white artwor Scott Pilgrim is a light manga-style comic about the eponymous 23 year old slacker musician who is dating a 17yo high school student Knife and meets another new girl, Ramona Flowers. The story takes place in Toronto and this is the first of 6 books in the series. I liked the rapid fire millennial dialog between the characters and especially the crazy ending (no spoilers!). Ok, the plot is not particularly complex but the characters are fun and endearing and the manga style black and white artwork. It was fun to read and I am sure to read the other volumes now. ...more Really funny and entertaining but waaaay too short. A good set up for the rest of the series. Practically the same as the movie which makes me happy :) Actual rating: 3.5 I don't even like graphic novels, but these are amazing. They make me happy for some reason. To be honest, I expected more. Or different. But it has its moments. The drawing is OK, however the character design is very flawed: most girls look alike except for weird hairdos and sometimes characters don't look like themselves. The narrative was better than the story, the latter bugged me sometimes. I don't know if his awesomeness is meant to be ironic, but in this first volume Scott Pilgram is an asshole. At first I thought \"what's the point of dating a 17 year old if it's gonna be like that To be honest, I expected more. Or different. But it has its moments. The drawing is OK, however the character design is very flawed: most girls look alike except for weird hairdos and sometimes characters don't look like themselves. The narrative was better than the story, the latter bugged me sometimes. I don't know if his awesomeness is meant to be ironic, but in this first volume Scott Pilgram is an asshole. At first I thought \"what's the point of dating a 17 year old if it's gonna be like that?\" but I guess it's a nice depiction of moronic things guys do (still, the description of the characters are somewhat off considering their actions, though I guess I prefer how they act, it's more honest and accurate than the Juno weird/cool thing). Towards the end I got the feeling I would enjoyed it more with just the slice of life and none of the Video Game boss parody with the ex's, although then it would probably be just a random ordinary comic. ...more<+++>Scott Pilgrim, Volume 1: Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life</+++>", "Title": "Scott Pilgrim, Volume 1: Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life"},
