{"Comments": "Sweet. Very sweet and a typical <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A> romance. A heroine in trouble, a handsome hero who changes her whole world,<---M> some teary moments</---M>, and a feel good ending. A nice change of pace read for me. Sometimes it's nice to clear the head and read about a slooow moving romance, told by a master storyteller. Catherine Anderson is excellent at telling a story, and making you believe in her characters and their feelings. The romance was slow to build, and the H/H didn't even actually kiss unti Sweet. Very sweet and a typical Catherine Anderson romance. A heroine in trouble, a handsome hero who changes her whole world, some teary moments, and a feel good ending. A nice change of pace read for me. Sometimes it's nice to clear the head and read about a slooow moving romance, told by a master storyteller. Catherine Anderson is excellent at telling a story, and making you believe in her characters and their feelings. The romance was slow to build, and the H/H didn't even actually kiss until almost page 300, but the feelings the H/H had for each other were true and there from the get-go, it was just a matter of time and you knew they'd eventually get there. Rainie Hall is looking for a way out. Trapped in a marriage to a controlling, psychopathic, abusive S.O.B. who is intent on killing her, there's no way out for her--unless she could somehow fake her own death. (<---B>Think Julia Roberts in Sleeping With the Enemy </---B>). He would never allow her to just walk away or divorce him (he murdered his previous two wives and got away with it), so faking her own death is Rainie's only option. With the help of a couple of very good friends, she pulls a switcheroo while on a cruise with evil hubby Peter (where he's planning to kill her) and manages to convince the authorities that she drowned at sea. Now on the run and with some fake I.D., she shows up in the town of Crystal Falls, Oregon, broke and looking for work. Seeing an ad in the newspaper for a bookkeeping job at a horse ranch, she applies and gets the job. Her boss, Parker Harrigan is talkative, friendly, and sexy--but no way, no how is she looking for romance, and who could blame her after her demeaning experience with her rotten husband? But Parker has a way about him, and before long he finds out most of her secrets, and why she seems so jumpy around him. With Parker's incredibly loving patience, Rainie finds the woman that she used to be--the brave, sassy and sometimes willful girl that is her true self, and leaves the cowering church-mouse behind. Parker and Rainie's initial attraction develops into a sweet and tender love story, and has Rainie thinking she may have a wonderful future after all. But just when it looks like Rainie's life is turning around, she finds that she may not be rid of Peter just yet. Wow. I haven't read a book with such a kind and patient hero as Parker Harrigan in quite a while--the guy was almost too good to be true. He took shy little church-mouse, afraid-to-give-an opinion Rainie and got her to open up, become the woman she used to be before her husband crushed her spirit, and restored her confidence in herself. Rainie transformed from a pussycat into a tiger--especially near the end of the book when she had a final showdown with her husband. I cheered to myself and said \"you go girl!\" While it's true that the physical side of Parker and Rainie's love didn't develop until late in the book, the emotional side was there early on. The pace slowed down somewhat for me about mid-book, because by that time you knew that Peter wasn't through with Raine, but it seemed like he was taking forever to make a return appearance. So I was anxious for him to return and get his comeuppance. Let's just say you won't be disappointed. Of course there wasn't a lot of heat in this one--the sex scenes were late in the book and were of the PG-13 variety--but the romance was certainly there. At times when Parker was being so sweet to Rainie it made me tear up, so this one definitely affected me emotionally. This may not be my favorite of all of Catherine Anderson's stories, but it was still a good romance and a good story about a young woman finding her true self again.<---F> A very solid 4 stars</---F>. ...more As much as I love Catherine Anderson's books, I must admit I was wary of this one. The last two books of this series just didn't do much for me, especially the last one, Morning Light , because of all the religious talk in it. It just doesn't appeal to me. I wondered if Anderson was shifting her writing to be more Inspirational, which for an atheist like me, just isn't my thing. So I was very happy and relieved when I read <+++>Star Bright</+++> and saw that it was much more typical of her past books. There As much as I love Catherine Anderson's books, I must admit I was wary of this one. The last two books of this series just didn't do much for me, especially the last one, Morning Light , because of all the religious talk in it. It just doesn't appeal to me. I wondered if Anderson was shifting her writing to be more Inspirational, which for an atheist like me, just isn't my thing. So I was very happy and relieved when I read <+++>Star Bright</+++> and saw that it was much more typical of her past books. There's still some religion, but no where near as much as the last book (thank goodness!). This ended up being a great read. Probably not one I'd classify as a favorite, but still one I enjoyed a lot and didn't want to put down. In Star Bright , Rainie Hall is a young woman trapped in a horribly abusive marriage to a man who just wants her money. When she realizes he plans to kill her, she has to make a move. Faking her death and assuming a new identity with the help of friends, she escapes to Crystal Falls, Oregon, and gets a job as a bookkeeper at Parker Harrigan's ranch. Rainie's past has made her completely unable to trust any man, but Parker's gentle ways and innate kindness draw her in before she even realizes it. It isn't long before Parker discovers that her identity is a lie, and over time he learns about the hell Rainie lived through. He can't help but fall in love with her. Getting Rainie to trust him, though, isn't easy. But eventually, she sees him for the good man he is. She wants a life with him, but in order to get that, she must first settle her past. There's something about a Catherine Anderson story that just really sucks you in. She's a very gifted storyteller who can run you through an emotional wringer, yet leave you with warm fuzzies when you finish the last page. Star Bright is a wonderful tale about a woman rediscovering herself, her inner and outer strength, and the truly good man who helps her put her life back together. It's sweet and tender, sad and heart-rending, and everything in between. Anderson really makes you feel for Rainie and what she went through. And Parker...well, we should all be so lucky to meet a man like that. He was the perfect hero for this story, the perfect mate for Rainie. There really wasn't anything I didn't like about this book. I didn't even mind that the physical part of their relationship didn't develop until pretty late in the book. It needed to go that way. Rainie had to heal before should could trust another man like that. The intimate scenes between them were very sweet. From the great characters, the sweet romance, and the mild suspense, Star Bright was enjoyable cover-to-cover. I could make a mild case for the fact that the book has more than a passing similarity to Sweet Nothings in that both heroines were escaping evil husbands, and how they had to rediscover themselves after the abuse they went through. The premises were very similar, but the details completely different. There probably could have been a little more variance between the two, but I wasn't particularly bothered by it since Star Bright was such a good read. I do wish there'd been a little more mention of the Coulters. Nothing too involved. Just a mention of how they were doing, babies born or whatnot. They were a great family to read about and I'd have loved an update on them. Otherwise, this was a solid book through and through. From the first page it had me hooked and kept me reading until I finished. I considered giving this one five stars, but it wasn't quite as good as Phantom Waltz , my favorite book of hers. So I settled on four stars, maybe four and a half. For those of you who like Catherine Anderson, I think you'll really enjoy this book. And if you haven't read her and like emotional contemporary romances, then I'd highly suggest giving her a try! NOTE: though this book is part of a series, it can probably be read as a stand-alone. I'd definitely recommend the other books, though, because this is a fantastic series. And without reading the others, you miss a lot of the family/character nuances. ...more Another great read from Anderson. Her books to me keep getting better and better as time goes on. I guess I am a little biased but I have not read a bad book yet from this author. The love stories are sweet and consuming and there is always an HEA 3.75 stars I just couldn't get into this book much until the last 40 pages or so. I admit I think it was better than the last two in the series, but it was still on the dull side. I could just be in a mood because this is the third 'abused herione' book I've read in one week. I feel the story dragged on and on and on and on.......while the heroine builds her self esteem, trains like Rocky, finally lets the hero make moves on her...then we wait...and wait...and wait for the bad guy to show and try 3.75 stars I just couldn't get into this book much until the last 40 pages or so. I admit I think it was better than the last two in the series, but it was still on the dull side. I could just be in a mood because this is the third 'abused herione' book I've read in one week. I feel the story dragged on and on and on and on.......while the heroine builds her self esteem, trains like Rocky, finally lets the hero make moves on her...then we wait...and wait...and wait for the bad guy to show and try to kill her so we can put him in jail and we can get on with our HEA. ...more Bored me to tears. Nice idea, but I could not connect with the characters. This is not the first novel by Ms. Anderson that I couldn't get into. I think it's just a personal preference. The story was fulfilling, enjoyable and entertaining up until the end, which was frustrating due to hero and heroine stupidity. STORY BRIEF: Peter studied, courted and married three heiresses. The first two died under mysterious circumstances. The third is Rainie. He beat and abused her. She believes he plans to kill her, so she fakes her death and runs away using a false identity. She gets a job as a bookkeeper for Parker, a horse breeder on a ranch. When Parker discovers she lied on her job appl The story was fulfilling, enjoyable and entertaining up until the end, which was frustrating due to hero and heroine stupidity. STORY BRIEF: Peter studied, courted and married three heiresses. The first two died under mysterious circumstances. The third is Rainie. He beat and abused her. She believes he plans to kill her, so she fakes her death and runs away using a false identity. She gets a job as a bookkeeper for Parker, a horse breeder on a ranch. When Parker discovers she lied on her job application Rainie believes she must run again. Parker guesses her circumstances and convinces her to stay on, even though she will not tell him any details other than her real first name. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: Most of the book was wonderful. I loved how smart and careful Rainie and Parker were. I loved how Parker slowly charmed Rainie over time. I loved how Rainie slowly began healing and did some other things that I don\u2019t want to give away as spoilers. One of my favorite parts was the role Loni played when she first met Rainie. As I was reading, I thought \u201cI agree with two statements on the back cover of the book,\u201d \u201cheartwarming, gently sensual\u201d and \u201cemotionally involving, family-centered, and relationship-oriented.\u201d I think a person who experienced an abusive relationship would find some healing comfort in this story. Parker is a perfect hero, gentle, loving, devoted, patient and also a strong protector. A couple of times the book was a little slow, but during most of the book I had various good feelings. My problem was the end of the book. I was angry and frustrated at the stupid (and careless) things done by Parker, Raine, and the police. See Spoiler below. DATA: Story length: 408 pages. Sexual language: mild. Number of sex scenes: 3. Total number of sex scene pages: 10. Setting: current day Seattle, Washington, and Crystal Falls, Oregon. Copyright: 2009. Genre: romantic suspense. (view spoiler) [ I was angry at the police dispatcher for not believing that Rainie was in danger and wasting precious minutes making Parker justify why the dispatcher should send help. Then I was angry at Parker and Rainie for not informing everyone at the police station that there was a chance that a serial killer may be after Rainie and at least to be on alert for a phone call. A protective order had been issued against the killer, and it was a small police department. Everyone there should have known about it. Then I was angry at Parker and Rainie for the following. They make plans to get married. They meet with a Catholic priest who doesn\u2019t want them to live together before the wedding. Therefore, Rainie continues to live alone in her low-income apartment 30 minutes away. What happened to being smart? Peter is a psychopathic serial killer wanting revenge. At the least, Rainie could have stayed with Parker\u2019s father or sister (on their high-security ranches) for the time before the wedding. Because of that, the killer was able to get to Rainie. I wish the author had come up with a clever way for the killer to get to her even though she was being smart and careful. In Donna M\u2019s review, I loved her idea of using a body double as bait instead of Rainie. That would have been smart and interesting. (hide spoiler) ] ...more Rainie Hall was desperate! If she didn\u2019t escape her abusive husband, Peter Danning, she was certain he would kill her, perhaps in the same way that he murdered his other two wives. Rainie\u2019s friends help her and she flees to the small town of Crystal Falls, Oregon, a place where she hopes Peter will never find her. With her borrowed funds rapidly dwindling, Rainie takes a job on a horse ranch run by handsome Parker Harrigan. Harrigan hires her as his accountant, but Rainie\u2019s skittishness puzzles Rainie Hall was desperate! If she didn\u2019t escape her abusive husband, Peter Danning, she was certain he would kill her, perhaps in the same way that he murdered his other two wives. Rainie\u2019s friends help her and she flees to the small town of Crystal Falls, Oregon, a place where she hopes Peter will never find her. With her borrowed funds rapidly dwindling, Rainie takes a job on a horse ranch run by handsome Parker Harrigan. Harrigan hires her as his accountant, but Rainie\u2019s skittishness puzzles him. She seems to be terrified of her own shadow and men frighten her for some reason. Parker does a background check and quickly realizes most of what is on Rainie\u2019s job application is a lie, a fable meant to deceive him into hiring her. Parker is angry and upset with himself for trusting her. He was really beginning to like Rainie and eagerly looked forward to their impromptu discussions. When the truth comes out, however, Parker realizes Rainie is a woman on the run, someone desperately in need of a champion. Chivalrous Parker Harrigan would never turn from a woman in trouble. Parker and Rainie contact the authorities, who stage an elaborate plan to use Rainie as bait to trap Peter Danning. The FBI has the serial killers\u2019 monikers and present a web of entrapment to fit the profile. Unfortunately, Peter is a serial killer with a twist - a twist that may very well spell the end of both Rainie and Parker. Will Peter succeed in cornering Rainie despite the FBI\u2019s precautions or will Rainie somehow find the strength to fight for her own life and for a love she cannot deny? Anyone who has been involved in or has witnessed an abusive relationship will identify with the characters in this book. Catherine Anderson has captured the incredible amount of damage that can be done to those victimized by their abusers. The toll goes well beyond the broken bones and bruises and into the psyche itself. Normalcy is twisted into some dull aberration, trust disappears and concept of self is beaten down relentlessly until only a glimmer of the former individual glows in the farthest reaches of the mind. I applaud Ms. Anderson\u2019s portrayal of the slow, gradual healing process as well and the incredible restraint and love that must be shown by those who seek to bring the victims back into the light. ...more it was a good little book, dont usually read these kind but my mom loaned it to me, she likes these kind the girl was married to a bad man who only married her for her money. he killed his first two wives was going to kill her on the cruise ship, she got 2 friends to help her escape. he didnt believe she was dead, she moved to crystal falls, this is a series of teh family that lives on teh ranches there and she met the one single man that raised horses to be his accountant. she later confides in it was a good little book, dont usually read these kind but my mom loaned it to me, she likes these kind the girl was married to a bad man who only married her for her money. he killed his first two wives was going to kill her on the cruise ship, she got 2 friends to help her escape. he didnt believe she was dead, she moved to crystal falls, this is a series of teh family that lives on teh ranches there and she met the one single man that raised horses to be his accountant. she later confides in him after his sister in law was clairvoyant and read her story . they got the fbi involved and she filed for divorce. they followed her thinking he would come after her but he waited till they stopped following her, tried to kill her , but her new boyfriend the cowboy taught her to defended herself, she defended herself and he got arrested. she married the boyfriend and now im reading the book in the series from before this book that my mom gave me too. its the clairvoyant girl just meeting the brother .... ...more Fearing for her life, Raine fakes her own death and runs from her psychopathic husband. She lands in Chrystal Falls living in a run down rental with an abandoned cat and good will furniture. Fast running out of money she gets a job working as book-keeper for Parker Harrigan on his ranch, but with everyone looking for her, her secrets are anything but safe, and if her husband finds her first he'll kill her. This is really very good. I think it was a little long-winded towards the end but over-all Fearing for her life, Raine fakes her own death and runs from her psychopathic husband. She lands in Chrystal Falls living in a run down rental with an abandoned cat and good will furniture. Fast running out of money she gets a job working as book-keeper for Parker Harrigan on his ranch, but with everyone looking for her, her secrets are anything but safe, and if her husband finds her first he'll kill her. This is really very good. I think it was a little long-winded towards the end but over-all it was a satisfying and enjoyable read. ...more Nem el\u0151sz\u00f6r tal\u00e1lkozom m\u00e1r az \"egy \u00e1gyban az ellens\u00e9ggel\"-f\u00e9le t\u00f6rt\u00e9nettel, s most is nagyon tetszett. Nem tudok nem elgondolkodni azon, vajon nekem lenne-e er\u0151m megpattanni egy ilyen helyzetb\u0151l... Els\u0151 Catherine Andersonom, \u00e9s r\u00f6gt\u00f6n meg is h\u00f3d\u00edtott. (Azt hiszem, id\u00e9n m\u00e1r nem olvasok \u00faj szerz\u0151t\u0151l, mert \u00edgy sem gy\u0151z\u00f6m az \u00fajonnan felfedezett kedvenceket.) I picked this one up but never finished it, so I checked it out again with a new sense of determination. It's basically the same old story as 80% of Catherine Anderson's other novels, especially in the Kendrick-Coulter-Harrigan series. Poor abused broken beauty running from a horrible abusive life with flashbacks and references to the bastard who beat and raped her and threw her around like she was nothing., Handsome cowboy-racher comes to her rescue and slowly wins her trust, Love Ensues. Rainie I picked this one up but never finished it, so I checked it out again with a new sense of determination. It's basically the same old story as 80% of Catherine Anderson's other novels, especially in the Kendrick-Coulter-Harrigan series. Poor abused broken beauty running from a horrible abusive life with flashbacks and references to the bastard who beat and raped her and threw her around like she was nothing., Handsome cowboy-racher comes to her rescue and slowly wins her trust, Love Ensues. Rainie's tragic story is Molly Sterling's times ten. Rich bastard ensnared her, ruined her life, she ~couldn't do anything about it~ because he's rich and has influence and blah blah blah she ran away and now he knows she's alive. We don't just get the bits and pieces of the story put together by Rainie slowly confiding in Parker, we get an entire infodump from Loni after she shakes Rainie's hand. Rainie collapses and sobs about the whole thing to Parker and we find out the whole plot is basically half ripped off from Sleeping With The Enemy. But Rainie herself isn't completely awful. Nothing special except for a part I won't elaborate on until later...no more or less than the standard Anderson heroine. Other than her awesome fashion sense, that is. As a wearer of flowy skirts and a fan of peasant blouses, I give her a thumbs-up. Parker was your standard Harrigan Hero, didn't love him, didn't hate him. Though he made me want to slap him upside the head when he purposely baited Rainie just to force her to voice her opinions. Um, no. When you're faced with a terrified and insecure person, YOU DON'T DO THAT. Still, I didn't mind him. At least he didn't pull any of that crap again. Peter Danning makes Rodney Wells look as harmless as a goldfish. No, I'm serious. Not only do we get to see him in action but the constant infodumping of Rainie's tragic, awful marriage to him recounts every horrible thing he ever did to her-he shoved her head in the toilet for cursing, made her lick broken glass for not liking his wine, convinced the police she was hysterical and then beat her up for calling them in the first place, beat her up for leaving the house at all, beat her up for blinking too loudly. And of course he's so damn powerful that the self-assured Rainie lost every ounce of gumption the moment he looked her way. And of course the whole damn Harrigan family wants to get in line to break him in half. And of course there's puppies. There's always puppies. And a cat, which are rarer in these stories. So Rainie moves in with the Harrigans and she and Parker fall deeply in love. The FBI makes the scene to help Rainie by...suggesting she use herself as bait for Peter. Uh, what? Yeah, that's gonna end well. Raine moves back into her place, Parker starts staying overnight and they have sex. Many times. And it's beautiful and amazing, of course. Peter never shows up, so Rainie figures it's okay to start moving on with her life. But of course, we have to have some third act drama so Peter kidnaps Rainie, holds her at knifepoint and forces her into a bathtub where he forces wine and sleeping pills down her throat. And like the smug snake he is goes into all the details of how he's totally going to make her die and make it look like a suicide! Oh no! Will her handsome cowboy come rescue her in the nick of time? He doesn't need to. Finally, Rainie stops being a trembling damsel and beats the CRAP out of the bastard. She knocks him out cold, calls for help, then passes out. But since it's from being force-fed sleeping pills and not post dramatic stress disorder, I don't roll my eyes. I DO roll my eyes over the fact that the asshole survived multiple blows to the head with a glass bottle. And then we have our happily ever after and all is well. This book...was really hard to read. Not just for the cliche formulaic business, but because Peter is such an overblown complete monster, he reads more like a Saturday morning cartoon villain had a baby with a Lifetime Movie abuser and set it loose on the world. He might as well have grown a twirly mustache and worn a black cape while going BWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA the entire time he was shoving pills and wine down Rainie's throat. He never shuts up until Rainie finally puts him in his place. That said, I would like to point out that I enjoyed seeing Parker actually teach Rainie how to fight. Not many Anderson heroes would encourage their lady to stand up for herself rather than sit there and tremble while they handled all the fighting. And even though learning how to fight doesn't stop Raine from being captured and nearly killed, the fact that she saves herself more than makes up for it. As for everything else...I did somewhat enjoy the developing romance between Rainie and Parker, and her being integrated into the Harrigan family. And the fact that Rainie had two good friends looking out for her all this time. So overall, this book was merely...okay. I liked that it stepped outside some of its usual conventions, but the constant infodumping of Rainie's Tragic Past and Peter's overall presence dampened my enjoyment of it. ...more Over the years Miss Anderson\u2019s writing has changed a bit. Actually, not so much her writing \u2013 it\u2019s as wonderful as ever. Good dialogue, strong characters, emotionally charged scenes, great romance, and a delightful mix of sweet and light combined with suspense and tension. But with the last 2 or 3 books there has been a lot more mention of God. I don\u2019t necessarily have a problem with God, it\u2019s just that it wasn\u2019t what I\u2019d grown to expect from her. But people change. And if you\u2019re an author, I\u2019m Over the years Miss Anderson\u2019s writing has changed a bit. Actually, not so much her writing \u2013 it\u2019s as wonderful as ever. Good dialogue, strong characters, emotionally charged scenes, great romance, and a delightful mix of sweet and light combined with suspense and tension. But with the last 2 or 3 books there has been a lot more mention of God. I don\u2019t necessarily have a problem with God, it\u2019s just that it wasn\u2019t what I\u2019d grown to expect from her. But people change. And if you\u2019re an author, I\u2019m sure your writing changes as you grow and experience life. Her latest books are all stand alones but are connected through family. We had the terrific Coulter Family Novels and now and offshoot of the Coulter\u2019s, the Harrigan Family Novels. Her latest release STAR BRIGHT features Parker Harrigan, and although it does mention God ( the Harrigan\u2019s are Roman Catholics) his religion is woven into the fabric of his character and informs his decisions in an intelligent and emotional way. I felt that this book had finally come to a beautiful balance between the Catherine Anderson I\u2019d read five years ago and the Catherine Anderson I\u2019d read a year ago. As I was reading STAR BRIGHT, it seemed very familiar to me. The book had this d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu quality about it. I thought \u2018have I read this before?\u2019 As I continued reading it I had an ah ha moment and realized that some of the plot is much like the Julia Roberts movie \u201cSleeping With the Enemy\u201d. And it wasn\u2019t but 30 pages later when I read this: \u2026Did you ever watch the movie Sleeping With the Enemy? \u201cThe Julia Roberts film?\u201d It hit Parker then. There\u2019d always been something oddly familiar about Rainie, and now he saw it. Except for little differences in her features and eyes, she was almost an exact duplicate of the leading female character in that movie, right down to the flowing skirts, dainty tops, and quaint summer dresses. The wildly curly, sun-streaked hair. The funky white shoes she\u2019d worn to that first interview. She\u2019d mimicked that look. \u201cI\u2019ll be damned,\u201d he whispered. \u201cThat\u2019s where we got the idea, from that movie,\u201d she went on, her voice wobbling like an out-of-balance tire. So now you know that Rainie Hall has faked her own death to run away from an abusive and murderous husband. She finds herself in Crystal Falls with no money and trying to start a new life, where she lands up working at Parker Harrigan\u2019s ranch. There are many ways that Rainie\u2019s life and the book itself differ from the movie Sleeping With the Enemy and Andersen gives Rainie a rich and full bodied back story. Her fears and hesitations are based in her past traumas. Yet her new life is informed by the woman she dreamed she\u2019d grow up to be before her parent\u2019s death and before her marriage. Parker is the antithesis of her very evil husband. He comes from a big and loving family, and Andersen hits all the right notes in making his family and their relationship to each other come alive. She\u2019s so very good at this. Anderson is a master when it comes to creating family scenes that make you want to pull up a chair and invite yourself to dinner. The scenes where Rainie and Parker are getting to know each other are sweet (and I mean that in the best possible way) and romantic. She takes her time with these two, which only makes sense. Rainie has just fled for her life and her trust isn\u2019t easily won. The \u2018courtship\u2019of these two is a gentle dance with a great deal of care taken in the \u2018getting to know you\u2019 phase. I appreciated that, and it made it all the more real for me. There is suspense in this book, with an evil husband that is beyond redemption. The re-telling of Rainie\u2019s abuse is often hard to read, but it is written with the distance that allows dignity and the knowledge that Rainie had the courage to finally take control of her life. She begins to really own the fact that warmth, friendship and love is something that she both deserves and has a right to. Parker becomes her friend first, her confidant second and her lover third. In this way one can see the rightness of their coming together. Anderson\u2019s books are always, and I mean always, heartwarming. STAR BRIGHT was heartwarming, sweet, sensual and romantic. I enjoyed spending time with Rainie, Parker and the Harrigan family. I\u2019m hoping for more with this family and looking forward to the next one. ...more What can a young woman do when a husband plans to kill her? Fake her own death. Rainie is on the run for her life and with the help of her good friends she has escaped to Crystal Falls. There she planned to lay low and live a simple, quiet life as Anna Pritchard. However, too bad for Rainie that her new boss is Parker Harrigan a man who is very interested in her and know that there is something not right! What was surprising about this book was that there wasn't any major lying going on. By that What can a young woman do when a husband plans to kill her? Fake her own death. Rainie is on the run for her life and with the help of her good friends she has escaped to Crystal Falls. There she planned to lay low and live a simple, quiet life as Anna Pritchard. However, too bad for Rainie that her new boss is Parker Harrigan a man who is very interested in her and know that there is something not right! What was surprising about this book was that there wasn't any major lying going on. By that I mean Parker figured out from very early on that she wasn't who she said she was and that she was on the run. However, his a beta hero who such a darn sweetheart! He didn't fire her nor question her about who she was running away from. Parker just kept harassing talking to her and pushing her buttons to make her talk to him with the sass she so longed believed she no longer had. Rainie is broken after years of abuse from her husband. \"Only two facts were clear in her mind: She had emerged from the relationship a changed person, and she didn't like what she had become. Sadly, she didn't know how to fix herself. She had escaped from Peter physically, but emotionally, she was still his prisoner.\" The transformation from the such a weak willed woman who was scared of her own shadows to one who could kickass was great to see! Her change was also a progression that she achieved with the help of Parker and his family but also herself. I absolutely love my alpha heroes and their intense personalities but beta heroes have their own appeal as well! Parker Harrigan is that sweet talking, goodlooking cowboy that knows how to be protective but also is very considerate of his woman. Although there was instant attraction but their relationship was also a progression. \"His urge to hug her and chase the wariness from her eyes remained strong as well. When he said something to make her smile slightly, he felt as if he'd just hung the moon. And, God help him, when he was away from her, he found it difficult to keep his mind on his horses, thinking instead about ways he might encourage her to trust him.\" Parker didn't push her to accept his feelings and allowed her time to get used to him understanding that she has a lot of distrust in guys. \"Parker was fine with that. The only lasting romantic relationships that he'd ever seen had been built on a solid foundation of friendship. The other stuff came later-and he was a patient man.\" With a man who fight for her, his family that has embraced her as their own and a wish on a bright star, Rainie learns to find herself again and hope for a better future. \"Star light, star bright, the first star I see tonight\" she whispered. \"I wish I may, I wish I might, have this wish I wish tonight.\" ...more This is going to be a review like no other I have ever written. Instead of reviewing one book I am reviewing two, both by Catherine Anderson. One is her latest book, Silver Thaw, and the other is one of her older books, Star Bright. It just happened that I read them back to back and I have never been happier that I did. Mrs. Anderson is known for dealing with relevant social and domestic issues in her books, even her historical romances. These two books are no different. They both address the is This is going to be a review like no other I have ever written. Instead of reviewing one book I am reviewing two, both by Catherine Anderson. One is her latest book, Silver Thaw, and the other is one of her older books, Star Bright. It just happened that I read them back to back and I have never been happier that I did. Mrs. Anderson is known for dealing with relevant social and domestic issues in her books, even her historical romances. These two books are no different. They both address the issue of severe domestic and spousal abuse, the kind that is taken to the extreme where the wife is completely subjugated to the husband for fear of her life. In Star Bright, it is only the wife but in Silver Thaw it is a wife with a child that she must protect because not only is the wife abused but so has the child. When I first started reading Silver Thaw after finishing Star Bright, I was amazed at the similarities in the stories and I must admit I wondered if Silver Thaw was going to be just a retelling of Star Bright in a different scenario. I am so glad I read beyond the first two pages. These two books could not be more different. Star Bright deals with a woman finding the light, the essence of herself, that can never be touched or put out, no matter how severe the abuse. And when given the chance, it will re-spark Star Bright and rekindle to lead the woman to be herself again, full of confidence and self-worth. Silver Thaw on the other hand is about learning to live again, learning to trust, learning that everyone is not the same as the cruel; man she had the misfortune to marry. Mrs. Anderson takes both of these scenarios and handles them with the delicacy and strength they deserve. While I do not have an abusive husband, I grew up in an abusive household so I know first-hand what Mrs. Anderson was describing. To those who have never experienced this, it is hard to understand why a woman would stay in this type of environment. Read these two books and you will have a much better understanding of domestic abuse as it exists today. Mrs. Anderson obviously did her research for both of these books. Bravo to her and bravo to all the ladies who have had the courage to escape. God bless each and every one of you. If you are in these situations, please seek help. ...more Another great story by Anderson! I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever read a book by her that I didn\u2019t love! Once again she tells a sweet and tender romance about Parker Harrigan and Rainie Hall, a lady who fakes her own death in order to escape her abusive and psychotic husband, Peter. Rainie ends up in Crystal Falls and lands a job at Parkers ranch as a Bookkeeper. Parker doesn\u2019t turn her into the police when he finds out she lied about whom she was in order to get the job. Instead he trusts his instincts Another great story by Anderson! I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever read a book by her that I didn\u2019t love! Once again she tells a sweet and tender romance about Parker Harrigan and Rainie Hall, a lady who fakes her own death in order to escape her abusive and psychotic husband, Peter. Rainie ends up in Crystal Falls and lands a job at Parkers ranch as a Bookkeeper. Parker doesn\u2019t turn her into the police when he finds out she lied about whom she was in order to get the job. Instead he trusts his instincts that Rainie is running for her life. Rainie has no self-confidence because her husband took it all away from her and Parker is determined to teach her to be a fighter and defend herself and in time boost up her confidence. Along the way Parker falls for Rainie but understands she is not ready for any romantic relationship. After all she is still married and is still living with the nightmares of her past. Slowly but surely Rainie\u2019s confidence is lifted and she starts to open herself up to Parker. He is nothing like Peter and for once she can be happy with a man who treats her right. She builds the courage to file for a divorce even though Peter may come after her once he finds out she is still alive. In the end, Peter is put in jail after he attempts to take Rainie\u2019s life and after he confesses to killing his previous two wives in order to take their money. Parker was really sweet! I loved how he was very patient with Rainie and didn\u2019t force her to do anything she didn\u2019t want to do. He let her make her own decisions and that meant a lot to Rainie since her husband controlled her life. I loved how Parker and Rainie spent their lunches together and how Parker snuck into her house every night because he was afraid for her safety. He was so determined to make her strong so that she could defend herself if Peter ever came back. OH and I can't forget to mention Mojo. He was such a cute puppy! Such a great book! ...more I started out really liking this one and then it just got weird and stupid. The same basic premise as Linda Howard's Running Wild which was much better. I liked how Rainie engineered her escape from her abusive ex. But you'd think with friends who can plot that well and have enough cash and resources to help her, they would be more involved in the story. Nope, once she ends up at the ranch she's totally sucked into their alternate universe. The hero is supposed to be this caring, smart man, but he I started out really liking this one and then it just got weird and stupid. The same basic premise as Linda Howard's Running Wild which was much better. I liked how Rainie engineered her escape from her abusive ex. But you'd think with friends who can plot that well and have enough cash and resources to help her, they would be more involved in the story. Nope, once she ends up at the ranch she's totally sucked into their alternate universe. The hero is supposed to be this caring, smart man, but he acts like a yokel throughout the whole story. And his big story about being perfectly normal in college and thinking perhaps he might learn more than his father knows is just stupid compared to what she'd been through. And the whole new-agey star thing from when he was 5 helps her so much because being seriously abused is just like being a sad 5-year old! And then with the psychic sister-in-law! Sheesh. I haven't read that book yet, and I'm not sure I'd be able to stand it. First of all, you'd think that she would have long since figured out a way to avoid social handshakes. And then to have the whole family piling in on Rainie's life - without her permission! - seems abusive again. My last complaint is how CA portrays their Catholicism. I don't mind at all that the characters are religious, and glad to see that they aren't just a vague something Christian. But if you are going to make your characters Catholic, and make them somewhat devout and have long conversations about annulments, then don't also turn around and have those same characters see nothing against extramarital sex (of any kind) and go running out to buy the extra-large box of condoms. ...more I love Catherine Anderson and anything she writes is always an A+ but Starbright in my opinion was terrible. Its like she based the whole book off of two movies. (one of the characters mentions in the book that she got the idea to leave her husband from a movie she had watched) I of course figured that out after the first few pages. The whole entire book is basically C.A. version of Sleeping with the Enemy with Julia Roberts(she fakes her own death to get away from he r husband who is crazy and I love Catherine Anderson and anything she writes is always an A+ but Starbright in my opinion was terrible. Its like she based the whole book off of two movies. (one of the characters mentions in the book that she got the idea to leave her husband from a movie she had watched) I of course figured that out after the first few pages. The whole entire book is basically C.A. version of Sleeping with the Enemy with Julia Roberts(she fakes her own death to get away from he r husband who is crazy and compulsive) and Enough with Jennifer Lopez(she is an abused wife that husband is trying to kill her and then she learns how to fight back and uses him as bait to get her life back, she is also on the run and has rigged her house in the event that her abusive husband comes back. I don't know whats going own but I really expected better. Morning Glory by C.A. was a disappointment the heroine could read peoples lives and thoughts and also the thoughts of those connected with them. The only reason why I brought this up because in Star Bright the character uses her ability to help Rainie and its just seems so contrived,Raine is told that she doesnt have to worrry about the FBI because of that other character they will believe her just because the girl touched Raine and read her the FBI are going to take it as gospel. I dont know I was expected better. I actually bought this book fool price and only finished reading it because of that. Of all the books Catherine Anderson has written and I have read them all Morining Glory and Star Bright are the only 2 that I totally disliked. ...more Last book I bought brand-new by this author. It was good, but read too much like a lot of her previous books with a few names and details changed. Heroine who's on the run from an abusive husband, the hero who takes care of her, the fact that marriage vows become meaningless when one partner is abusing the other--haven't I read this plot by this author before? And a gaping plot hole: a priest tells them that they aren't allowed to live together because they're not married yet (but them sleeping t Last book I bought brand-new by this author. It was good, but read too much like a lot of her previous books with a few names and details changed. Heroine who's on the run from an abusive husband, the hero who takes care of her, the fact that marriage vows become meaningless when one partner is abusing the other--haven't I read this plot by this author before? And a gaping plot hole: a priest tells them that they aren't allowed to live together because they're not married yet (but them sleeping together seems to be okay). Why couldn't the heroine stay on the ranch with one of his siblings? Then she would have been safe, and propriety would have been observed. Instead, they send her back to her rathole apartment where the villian is easily able to get to her. Argh. The author did tone down the preaching in this novel compared to Morning Light, but it was still a bit much for me, and I'm a Catholic myself. And I really hate that if the characters are supposedly Christian, why are they having sex outside of marriage without any qualms about it? At least make their behaviour consistent with their beliefs. I think this author needs to take a break to get her writing mojo back. She's written so many of my favorite books. I know she can write better than this. ...more The heroine's an abused wife who flees her rich, powerful, insane husband. She moves out to a distant rural area, and lands a job as an accountant. Her boss realizes that she's been abused and is on the run and helps her recover, emotionally. They fall in love, but her husband of course is looking for her. Very disappointing. Catherine Anderson is my favorite romance author. Her books like Keegan's Lady and Comanche Moon really blew me away with their incredible writing, characters, and conflicts The heroine's an abused wife who flees her rich, powerful, insane husband. She moves out to a distant rural area, and lands a job as an accountant. Her boss realizes that she's been abused and is on the run and helps her recover, emotionally. They fall in love, but her husband of course is looking for her. Very disappointing. Catherine Anderson is my favorite romance author. Her books like Keegan's Lady and Comanche Moon really blew me away with their incredible writing, characters, and conflicts. The past two books Anderson's released have been so weak in contrast. What's more, they're becoming increasingly Christian. I don't have anything against Christianity, but I don't like preachy romance literature. Faith in god and finding one's inner light come up again and again. In addition, as much as I love her, for a while now I've been feeling like she only has a few stories inside of her and she keeps churning them out with variations. The hero in this book was identical to dozens of other heroes she's written. Same with the heroine. As soon as I started the book, I knew exactly what type of courtship was coming, and exactly how the end was going to pan out with her abusive husband. Anyway, I'll keep reading her releases, but I may be through buying them. ...more Another Safe Haven by Nicholas Sparks, Black and Blue by Anna Quindlen, and Sleeping with the Enemy by Nancy Price. (Woman fakes death/disappears to escape crazy husband she didn't know was insane until after she said \"I do\"; Woman falls in love with hero after her escape, but with hesitation and fear; Hero resolves her fear; Crazy husband finds woman...) Star Bright was a familiar story but Sparks, Quindlen and Price did it much better. Anderson\u2019s story was too long with repetitive scenes and c Another Safe Haven by Nicholas Sparks, Black and Blue by Anna Quindlen, and Sleeping with the Enemy by Nancy Price. (Woman fakes death/disappears to escape crazy husband she didn't know was insane until after she said \"I do\"; Woman falls in love with hero after her escape, but with hesitation and fear; Hero resolves her fear; Crazy husband finds woman...) Star Bright was a familiar story but Sparks, Quindlen and Price did it much better. Anderson\u2019s story was too long with repetitive scenes and conversations. Anderson is a superb writer; I just didn\u2019t care for this story. Something was missing. There was nothing new and it definitely was not as romantic or suspenseful as Haven or Black and Blue. I hoped for more excitement and drama at the conclusion. Overall, not bad, but I\u2019ve read it before. ...more I wanted to give this more stars, but couldn't. I liked the beginning. It was gripping and interesting. I could feel her panic and anxiety throughout most of the book, but where it feel short with me was it moved too slow. I find with Catherine Anderson books that they are generally way too long for what she writes about. Faking her own death to escape her murderous husband, Rainie Hall takes refuge in the rural community of Crystal Falls, where she finds work as a bookkeeper on a horse ranch ru I wanted to give this more stars, but couldn't. I liked the beginning. It was gripping and interesting. I could feel her panic and anxiety throughout most of the book, but where it feel short with me was it moved too slow. I find with Catherine Anderson books that they are generally way too long for what she writes about. Faking her own death to escape her murderous husband, Rainie Hall takes refuge in the rural community of Crystal Falls, where she finds work as a bookkeeper on a horse ranch run by dangerously good-looking Parker Harrigan. But as their initial attraction blossoms, Rainie fears she can never escape retribution from the man who has sworn to kill her\u0097and that her mere presence could jeopardize everything the Harrigan family holds dear. I liked Rainie and Parker. I thought they were sweet, but the characters seemed like they were two dimensional trying to be three dimensional. And not quite pulling it off. Towards the end I kept skipping pages hoping it would just end. I think I'm going to stop reading Catherine Anderson for a while. She seems to do this a lot with her characters. ...more This book was a great romance to read, although I found the plot to be just a little like \"Sun Kissed.\" (an ex-husband tries to kill the main character, he confronts her, he almost kills her, she escapes, and the heroine and the guy marry) Even though there was some similarities (this is only my second Catherine Anderson book) I still enjoyed reading this book. I loved Parker Harrigan--his personality, how caring he is, funny, etc--and also Rainie Hall. It had fluff and also heart-racing moments This book was a great romance to read, although I found the plot to be just a little like \"Sun Kissed.\" (an ex-husband tries to kill the main character, he confronts her, he almost kills her, she escapes, and the heroine and the guy marry) Even though there was some similarities (this is only my second Catherine Anderson book) I still enjoyed reading this book. I loved Parker Harrigan--his personality, how caring he is, funny, etc--and also Rainie Hall. It had fluff and also heart-racing moments, such as when Pete almost succeeded in killing Rainie. I breezed through this book in a really short period of time, and enjoyed every page of it. Catherine Anderson writes remarkable love stories that are enjoyable for almost everyone. She is talented, and I am looking forward to reading more from her soon. I know some people don't like it when they write about the same family, but I enjoy reading about how each member of the Harrigan, Coulter, etc family finds love. All in all, a great read! Rating: 93/100 ...more Sweet, slow building romance between two lovable and well written characters. The heroine, Rainie, is a severely abused wife whose husband has twice before murdered prior wives. When she learns that he is again plotting to kill, this time her, she stages her own death and disappears, assuming a new identity in order to escape his threat. After going on the run, she takes a job with a successful horse breeder, Parker Harrigan, who soon becomes the hero that Rainie needs to escape her dangerous hu Sweet, slow building romance between two lovable and well written characters. The heroine, Rainie, is a severely abused wife whose husband has twice before murdered prior wives. When she learns that he is again plotting to kill, this time her, she stages her own death and disappears, assuming a new identity in order to escape his threat. After going on the run, she takes a job with a successful horse breeder, Parker Harrigan, who soon becomes the hero that Rainie needs to escape her dangerous husband. The story is well written. The characters are well developed, believable, and oh so likable. There is a slow building, but lovely plot as Rainie and Parker get to know each other and Rainie learns that she can trust Parker after all that she's been through. Overall, a lovely, enjoyable read by Ms. Anderson. This novel is a part of a larger series, which I'm sure adds to the overall effect if read in sequence. I, however, read this with no prior knowledge of the other books and had no difficulty with following the story line. ...more This wasn't my absolute favorite of Catherine Anderson and I think I was mostly just disappointed with how easy it was to anticipate so much of it. Within the first few minutes of meeting Anna (aka Rainie), Parker has most of her backstory figured out\u2014he knows she's running and hiding from an abusive ex, and he knows this just by looking at her. Then, Rainie's abusive ex is able to figure out how she escaped so easily and within just a few minutes of meeting with his private detective. For some This wasn't my absolute favorite of Catherine Anderson and I think I was mostly just disappointed with how easy it was to anticipate so much of it. Within the first few minutes of meeting Anna (aka Rainie), Parker has most of her backstory figured out\u2014he knows she's running and hiding from an abusive ex, and he knows this just by looking at her. Then, Rainie's abusive ex is able to figure out how she escaped so easily and within just a few minutes of meeting with his private detective. For some reason, starting the story this way just really bugged me as it felt so unrealistic. From there the story got much better and I began to fall in love with the characters. This is the first of the series that I have read and I think knowing some of the secondary characters (who so obviously had their own story previously) would have enhanced my enjoyment and knowledge of the family/backstory. Overall, it was an enjoyable story with a thoughtful and kind hero and a girl who I was happy to see finally triumph in the end. ...more Rainie/ <---C>Lorraina</---C> is hiding from a past that she'd sooner forget unfortunately it will not let her. Parker suspects something isn't right and proceeds to push her buttons. This book spends an enormous time not only establishing their friendship but also Parker building Rainie up. It is about a woman who has lost herself and a friend helping her to heal and become strong again and while I loved the idea it just seemed to stretch on. I felt some of the things could have been shortened and the focus Rainie/ Lorraina is hiding from a past that she'd sooner forget unfortunately it will not let her. Parker suspects something isn't right and proceeds to push her buttons. This book spends an enormous time not only establishing their friendship but also Parker building Rainie up. It is about a woman who has lost herself and a friend helping her to heal and become strong again and while I loved the idea it just seemed to stretch on. I felt some of the things could have been shortened and the focus on the couple as a whole might have been better. The finish, however, was awesome. Rainie finds that strength and really brings it to the surface when her ex, Peter, comes a calling. I love a strong h but I wish CA would allow the H to stand up for his lady once in a while. Her men are always the best of men so have no fears if you are worried about any flaws. They are always hard to spot. This is also a standalone as Zach has not met Mandy yet from Here to Stay. I liked the villain in this book better just wish we would have seen more of him. Enjoy! ...more A romance about a woman who flees an abusive husband, creates a new life, and learns to trust herself again. I really liked this one, all but for one piece. The really good stuff: the emotional life of the heroine, the detailed and realistic challenges of creating a new life, the journey from fear to confidence, the patience of the hero. The one factor that didn't work for me was that Rainie's history was terribly hard for her to share. It was only with the smallest steps and the greatest fear th A romance about a woman who flees an abusive husband, creates a new life, and learns to trust herself again. I really liked this one, all but for one piece. The really good stuff: the emotional life of the heroine, the detailed and realistic challenges of creating a new life, the journey from fear to confidence, the patience of the hero. The one factor that didn't work for me was that Rainie's history was terribly hard for her to share. It was only with the smallest steps and the greatest fear that she shared it with the one man who had earned her trust. But the path that brought her story to the hero's family and eventually to the police was when the hero's psychic sister-in-law touched her hand and nearly keeled over from knowing Rainie's *whole* life telepathically. In a book that was hugely about how much courage it takes to leave an abusive relationship and learn to trust self and others, I felt like this was a cheap way to deal one enormous hurdle. The rest of the story was great, though. ...more 20/1 - I was surprised to find that I really enjoyed this. It was a little light on the romance and a little heavy on the preachiness. So, really late in the story Parker and Rainie have sex and continue to do so frequently for at least a couple of weeks, but then Rainie says that she doesn't want to move in with Parker until they are married, that the real Rainie would never live with a man without being married to him, despite the fact that it would be beneficial to her safety if she were livi 20/1 - I was surprised to find that I really enjoyed this. It was a little light on the romance and a little heavy on the preachiness. So, really late in the story Parker and Rainie have sex and continue to do so frequently for at least a couple of weeks, but then Rainie says that she doesn't want to move in with Parker until they are married, that the real Rainie would never live with a man without being married to him, despite the fact that it would be beneficial to her safety if she were living at the secure ranch instead of her rundown apartment. She's happy to keep sleeping with him at her apartment because their being sneaky about it, but if she moves in with him that will be like shoving their already consummated relationship in everyone's face. This sounds more than a little hypocritical to me and I hate hypocrisy, even in fictional romances. That is why I was surprised to enjoy this enough to read all night till 4:30 the next morning, leaving only 64 pages to read today. ...more Well, crap. Is it my fault that all Anderson's books sound the same? I bought this, and got about 50 pages in before I realized I had actually read this one before, and then slogged my way to about page 300 before throwing in the towel. Could the hero be any more \"perfect\"? Or the heroine any more of a dishrag? And the evil villain be any more \"mwah ha ha ha evil\"? No, to all the above. Parker isn't a hero, he's a complete stiff, and boring as heck. And of course all the typical Anderson stuff is Well, crap. Is it my fault that all Anderson's books sound the same? I bought this, and got about 50 pages in before I realized I had actually read this one before, and then slogged my way to about page 300 before throwing in the towel. Could the hero be any more \"perfect\"? Or the heroine any more of a dishrag? And the evil villain be any more \"mwah ha ha ha evil\"? No, to all the above. Parker isn't a hero, he's a complete stiff, and boring as heck. And of course all the typical Anderson stuff is here: Catholicism, no sex before marriage (well, sort of), puppies, cowboy hats and women who just wanna stay home and have babies. (though there's no physical disabilities here which is often a hallmark of Anderson's books.) I don't necessarily have an issue with any of the items listed above but after you've read about three Anderson books it starts to get very repetitive and very tiring. I wasn't invested in these people at all and gave up. ...more Enjoyed it, a lot of suspense in this one. A woman fakes her death and goes to Crystal Falls, Oregon to disappear \"Sleeping with the Enemy\" comes to mind. She takes the bookkeepering job at Parker Harrigan's ranch and soon Parker and she become friends. Bottom line he finds out she's on the run and pledges to protect her. But what was really nice was he decided to empower her as well as fall in love with her. Pretty little romance, a little less \"preachy\" than the prior two. Maybe the author got Enjoyed it, a lot of suspense in this one. A woman fakes her death and goes to Crystal Falls, Oregon to disappear \"Sleeping with the Enemy\" comes to mind. She takes the bookkeepering job at Parker Harrigan's ranch and soon Parker and she become friends. Bottom line he finds out she's on the run and pledges to protect her. But what was really nice was he decided to empower her as well as fall in love with her. Pretty little romance, a little less \"preachy\" than the prior two. Maybe the author got some negative feedback on her wrapping romance and religion. Didn't bother me but some might find it off putting. I like the inventive ways she's put a character in danger, never the same way twice though there have been a few repeat themes in the sense that an \"Ex\" is out to get our girl. Tried and true method. This guy is particularly twisted, but all ends as it should. Enjoy Narration & Story 4 ...more Essentially the same plot as an earlier novel ( Forever After ) shoehorned into one of her epic family sagas. Heroine is, as is required of a CA heroine, married to a horrible abusive guy who also happens to be a murderous criminal. She flees into hiding, fortuitously, into the radius of a good-looking warm-hearted member of the Kendrick-Coulter-Harrigan clan, all of whom can sense a woman in danger who needs saving from ten miles away. She gradually opens up to him, gradually comes to believe may Essentially the same plot as an earlier novel ( Forever After ) shoehorned into one of her epic family sagas. Heroine is, as is required of a CA heroine, married to a horrible abusive guy who also happens to be a murderous criminal. She flees into hiding, fortuitously, into the radius of a good-looking warm-hearted member of the Kendrick-Coulter-Harrigan clan, all of whom can sense a woman in danger who needs saving from ten miles away. She gradually opens up to him, gradually comes to believe maybe she's not the hideous besom her evil husband thinks she is, his family accepts her, her crazy alias, and her totally unconvincing back story without question. Then Evil Husband appears with lots of guns! But Hero saves the day in a manly fashion! Cue happily-ever-after with lots of babies! Note how I summarized all this without once mentioning the Hero and Heroine's names. That's because I don't actually remember them , that's how paper-thin the story was. ...more", "Title": "Star Bright"},
