{"Comments": "This book just kicked me in the emotions. What matters in prison is not who you are but what you want to become. This is the place of true imagination. <---A>Rene Denfeld</---A>, the author of <+++>The Enchanted</+++> has the heart of a warrior and the soul of a poet. She has written a novel about identity, understanding,<---M> the roots of crime</---M>, the reality of prison life, the possibility for redemption, and the ability of people to use imagination to rise beyond the purely material to the transcendent. There are three primary and several very strongly written se What matters in prison is not who you are but what you want to become. This is the place of true imagination. Rene Denfeld, the author of <+++>The Enchanted</+++> has the heart of a warrior and the soul of a poet. She has written a novel about identity, understanding, the roots of crime, the reality of prison life, the possibility for redemption, and the ability of people to use imagination to rise beyond the purely material to the transcendent. There are three primary and several very strongly written secondary characters whose stories are interwoven. In the death row of a stone prison somewhere in America, a nameless inmate , entombed in a lightless dungeon, has constructed a fantastical appreciation for the world he inhabits, bringing a glorious light into his Stygian darkness. The most wonderful enchanted things happen here\u2014the most enchanted things you can imagine. I want to tell you while I still have time, before they close the black curtain and I take my final bow. In reading, he has the freedom his external circumstances preclude. And he interprets his surroundings through a magical lens. The rumblings of tectonic activity become golden horses racing underground. He sees small men with hammers in the walls (<---B>a particularly Lovecraftian notion</---B>) and flibber-gibbets, beings who feed on the warmth of death itself. He visualizes his very sweat rising to join the atmosphere and raining down on China. He is also able to perceive feelings and needs in others, observing from his isolation, and offering a bit of narrator omniscience. That he is able to find enchantment in this darkest of situations is breathtaking. I was reminded, in a way, of Tolkien\u2019s Gollum, the battle between the darkness and the light within a single being. But enchantment is not reserved for the inmate alone. Rene Denfeld An investigator, known only as The Lady , is working on the case of a prisoner named York. After being on death row for twelve years, York had decided to abstain from any further appeals. The Lady had been hired by York\u2019s attorneys to look into his case. We follow her as she unearths a horrific past that helps explain how York came to be where and who he is. She has a history of her own that informs her ability to relate to her clients. Once upon a time she needed a redoubt of her own. What did she think about during those endless hours in the laurel hedge? As a child, she made an imaginary world so real that she could feel and taste it today. Sometimes she would imagine that she and her mom lived on a magical island where the trees dripped fruit. Other times they traveled all over the world, just the two of them, like the best of buddies. In all the stories her mom was whole and she was safe. When she left the laurel hedge, she would bend the thick green leaves back, to hide where she had been. And when she came back the next day, crawling with a sandwich she had made of stale bread with the mold cut off, and hardened peanut butter from the jar, the magic would be waiting for her. She has enchantment in her adult life as well, while pursuing her investigation, as she is dazzled by some of the natural beauty she encounters. A fallen priest tends to the spiritual needs of the inmates, but he guards a secret that he desperately needs to confess. While he offers what comfort he can to the inmates, who can really see him ? Who can forgive him ? Much of this novel is about seeing and being seen, of crime, punishment and forgiveness. The Lady\u2019s role is to see the prisoners, see their history, see what lies beneath the awful exterior. She is respected and admired, but not much seen herself. Many of the inmates and guards get by precisely because they succeed in remaining unseen . Prison is a dangerous place in which to be seen. Those who see might use that vision for dark purposes. Denfeld lifts a wet rock to reveal the maggot-ridden structure of unofficial prison governance, the corruption and cruelty that permeates this world, even with a fair warden nominally in charge. Corrupt guards ally with brutish alpha inmates for their mutual gain. There is considerable detail about prison life, including such things as why metal food trays are used instead of plastic, how the bodies of the deceased are handled, what events are considered disruptive and what are considered ameliorative, and even some history of the prison, including reasons for elements of its design. She also looks through the eyes of the warden and the guards, offering keen insight. The story lines include learning what The Lady discovers as she looks into York\u2019s past, following the travails of a new, young, white-haired prisoner, seeing how corruption in the prison operates, and accumulating bits of the nameless prisoner\u2019s story. There are indeed monsters inside the stone walls, as there are monsters without, both drawn to the despoiling of innocence and beauty. But in this pit of ultimate despair, where all hope is lost, there is magic of another sort. Life may be harsh and death may be near, but welcoming the golden subterranean steeds, attending to the little men with hammers, imagining elements of one\u2019s self traversing the planet, traveling along with the characters in a book, seeing, really seeing others, can lift one beyond the cares of the physical world. Can there be redemption for the horrific crimes these condemned men have committed? Should they die for their crimes, whether they want to or not? Might it be a harsher punishment, even crueler, to keep them alive? Denfeld has a considerable history. She is an investigator for death-row inmates, and thus the model for The Lady. Her knowledge of the prison world is well applied here. She wrote a piece for the New York Times Magazine on the impact on children of being raised by cognitively impaired parents, a subject that is significant in the story. In addition, her 2007 book, All God\u2019s Children informs her knowledge of the often violent world of street families, young criminals in particular.<---F> She is also an amateur boxer</---F>. I would not mess with her. This is simply one of the most moving books I have ever read. Not only is the material heart-breaking, but the language Denfeld uses in her descriptions, the gentle magic of the imagination with which she imbues some of her characters is poetic and stunning. I hear them, the fallen priest and the lady. Their footsteps sound like the soft hush of rain over the stone floors. They have been talking, low and soft, their voices sliding like a river current that stops outside my cell. When I hear them talk, I think of rain and water and crystal-clear rivers, and when I hear them pause, it is like a cascade of water over falls. While there is enough darkness in The Enchanted to fill a good-size dungeon, it is the moments of light, the beauty of language and imagination, and the triumph of spirit that will cast a spell over you that will last until you shuffle off this mortal coil. The trade paper edition of The Enchanted will be available 3/4/15 This review was posted November 4, 2013 ============================= EXTRA STUFF The author\u2019s web site The author\u2019s Facebook page 2/11/2015 - The long list was announced today for The Andrew Carnegie Medals for Excellence in Fiction and NonFiction and The Enchanted was on it. ...more this is a grim and haunting story that takes place in a crumbling, but still occupied, prison. the narrative is shot through with threads of magical realism which ordinarily would be employed as contrast to lessen the horror of the surroundings, but here these flourishes frequently intensify the bleakness. i'm going to refrain from talking about the book's overall message because death penalty stuff always brings out the cranks on both sides of the issue, and ain't nobody got time for that. but this is a grim and haunting story that takes place in a crumbling, but still occupied, prison. the narrative is shot through with threads of magical realism which ordinarily would be employed as contrast to lessen the horror of the surroundings, but here these flourishes frequently intensify the bleakness. i'm going to refrain from talking about the book's overall message because death penalty stuff always brings out the cranks on both sides of the issue, and ain't nobody got time for that. but i will say that i fully support the death penalty when it comes to bedbugs, because their recidivism rate is somehow more than 100% and also they are assholes. instead i will focus on the story and the writing, because it's a pretty impressive debut novel from someone who'd only written nonfiction before this. the narrator is an unnamed-until-the-end (view spoiler) [although you'll figure it out long before the big \"reveal.\" (hide spoiler) ] prisoner in solitary confinement in the underground death row section of the prison. he does not speak, but he escapes his surroundings through books and witnesses the enchantment running through the prison: golden horses galloping, tiny men with hammers in the walls, and the creepy flibber-gibbets. the less said about them, the better. but he sees so much more - well beyond the confines of his bars, and he serves as an omniscient narrator who tells the stories of the other characters: \"the lady,\" \"the priest,\" \"the warden,\" and york, a fellow prisoner whose death date is fast approaching. this structure makes it hard to say what's real and what's imagined. i assume we are meant to sort of \"forget\" that this prisoner would have no access to witnessing the scenes he relates, much less have access to the other characters' thoughts, but it's hard to ignore sometimes. as much as i love an unreliable narrator, passages like this one, where he admits to a blurring between reality and fantasy, are almost begging you to doubt what happens outside of the bars: Sometimes, when reading a book, I would think of the other people who might have touched it before it was donated. A nice woman who lay down with her baby for a nap might have held the book I was reading. I could see her, lying in a sundress on faded rose-printed cotton sheets, the book splashed open in the sunlight. A little of that sun could have soaked into the pages I was touching. After a time, it seemed that the world inside the books became my world. So when I thought of my childhood, it was dandelion wine and ice cream on a summer porch, like Ray Bradbury, and catching catfish with Huck Finn. My own memories receded and the book memories became the real memories, far more than the outside, far more even than in here. but it doesn't take away from the story much, it's just a little niggle that sticks in your brain. or my brain, anyway. i have a sticky brain. the story itself is much larger than you'd expect from such a short book. \"the lady\" is a death penalty investigator assigned to york's case, trying to save him from his impending death, which death york emphatically does not want saving from. through her inquiries and research, her own past is also revealed, much of it troublingly similar to york's. \"the priest\" is actually a defrocked priest, whose loneliness calls out to the lady's own, and they begin a friendship within the walls of the prison that provides a tentative beauty in all the misery. along with the warden, these two characters show that even people who are \"free\" have bars around them - a kind of self-imposed isolation resulting from guilt, fear, illness, and the weight of the past. there are large horrors to be found here; stories of rape and brutality and the white-haired boy, but the ones that really stuck in me were the smaller-scale events: what striker did to the book, the line Troy had a party , the forgotten inmate, the soapy gray dishwater surrounding the food\u2026 although that's a lie - the white-haired boy will also stick in my head for a long, long time. but there are other large and more central-to-the-story horrors with less staying power in my craw, probably because they were more familiar. which is in itself a horrifying statement. denfeld has written a quiet but powerful story here, drawing on her own experiences as a death penalty investigator. and while i didn't always agree with it, and while i thought the magical realism elements didn't always work or contribute, this is still a gorgeously-written piece of fiction, with a lot to chew on after it ends. here's a passage that i think showcases the gloomy beauty of her prose: The important part is the window on the far wall. If the inmates strain hard, they can see the sky through that window. The clouds might be fluffy and white one day, traced with pink and mauve the next, or lit on fire from a sunset. The window is the reason the death row inmates go to the visiting room to see their lawyers and investigators. The lawyers think their clients want to see them. No, they want to see the window. When the visit ends and they are led in chains back to the dungeon underground, where they spend their days trapped in a six-by-nine cell with no window and no fresh air, a flat cot and open toilet with an endless circle of dark brown in the bowl and a flickering lightbulb in a metal cage, they can remember that scrap of sky. They might go months down in the dungeon between visits, even years. But on those rare days when they are summoned to the visiting room, they know they will see the sky. When they return to the dungeon, they can tell the others. \"It was reddish today, and the clouds were the color of plums,\" they might say. Or \"I saw a bird - so pretty.\" No one will dispute them. There are some things people lie about in here - okay, people lie about most things in here. But there is one thing on death row that no one lies about, and that is what they saw in those scraps of sky. i await her second novel. ...more \u201cInside, the lies you tell become the person you become. On the outside, sun and reality shrink people back to their actual size. In here, people grow into their shadows.\u201d This is a book about monsters . And the stories they have to tell. Set on death row in a maximum security prison, this book is narrated by a man whose name and crimes we are not told. Through him, we see the lives of men inside the prison - those who long for death, those who would do anything to escape it, those who came to p \u201cInside, the lies you tell become the person you become. On the outside, sun and reality shrink people back to their actual size. In here, people grow into their shadows.\u201d This is a book about monsters . And the stories they have to tell. Set on death row in a maximum security prison, this book is narrated by a man whose name and crimes we are not told. Through him, we see the lives of men inside the prison - those who long for death, those who would do anything to escape it, those who came to prison for petty crimes and ended up paying far more than their crimes were worth. We also see the lives of others - a priest who wonders about redemption, prison guards who believe that some men deserve to die, and a lady who wants to save them all even though she isn't always sure why. The Enchanted is about humanity at its worst, at its most monstrous. It's a gritty, highly disturbing read that contains all manner of sexual abuse, violence and drug use. But it is also a beautifully-written debut novel that will haunt me for a long time. I thought it managed to pack many experiences into a short amount of pages without seeming over-burdened by them, introducing many different characters and developing them all into interesting - albeit often despicable - human beings. I admit that the death penalty is an area that I like to steer my mind away from and I'm glad I live in a country where it isn't up for much debate. My initial instinct is always to see it as a bad thing, to decry it as being a violation of something fundamental... but perhaps I am a hypocrite, because I'm certain I wouldn't feel so forgiving if the victim was someone I loved. Then again, what if the culprit was? I don't even know. Most people, when asked, would say they'd go back and kill Hitler if they had the chance, so I guess nearly all (if not all) of us are willing to cross the line sometimes. We all just define the line differently. But, despite what I initially wondered might be the case, this isn't a book about pushing a message. Or that's not what I took from it. I don't think this is about whether or not the death penalty should be used or whether or not people deserve to die, it is far more complex than that. If there is any message here, it's that everyone - even monsters - has a story. \"A woman who let men come and go through her door for years, to molest her baby. Not out of evil but for a reason that's harder to accept: she didn't know better.\" The ending surprised me and has continued to leave me feeling hollow and haunted - in a good way, I might add. I understand that this won't be a book for everyone and I don't want to play down some of the vivid descriptions of vile acts and upsetting scenes, but if you think you can stomach it, I highly recommend this book . It was a simultaneously beautiful and ugly story, based on the author's own experiences as an investigator on death row, and I really hope Denfield writes more in the future. Blog | Leafmarks | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr ...more Many years ago I went to the theater to see a movie called \"Dead Man Walking.\" One of the few movies I have seen that I had not read the book first, I am however, a big Susan Sarandon fan and tried to see all movies in which she took part. Anyway this was an emotionally powerful movie and I knew the other in the theater felt the same way because at the end of the movie there was dead silence, for quite a few seconds and than everyone rose to their feet and clapped. After reading this book I had Many years ago I went to the theater to see a movie called \"Dead Man Walking.\" One of the few movies I have seen that I had not read the book first, I am however, a big Susan Sarandon fan and tried to see all movies in which she took part. Anyway this was an emotionally powerful movie and I knew the other in the theater felt the same way because at the end of the movie there was dead silence, for quite a few seconds and than everyone rose to their feet and clapped. After reading this book I had the same reaction, I put the book down, stopped and thought about it and am still in fact thinking and processing. Actually gave a little chuckle when the famous nun, though nameless, has a brief appearance in this book. This is a hard book to read, a book about death row inmates, just the subject matter tells the reader this is not a happy little story. Nice people usually do not end up on death row. What made that movie and this book so powerful is not that excuses are made for these prisoners, what they did was horrible, but it does allow the reader to see them as people. The main characters in this book are not names, they are the lady, the fallen priest and our narrator who stays unnamed until the end of the book. This is a story of lost men, of all sorts of emotional and in some cases physical pain, and how they did or did not handle this pain. Our narrator uses books at first, \"I know that when I read books about love, they are telling the truth. The truth of it winds around my heart and tightens in pain. I try and see it through my eyes, raised to my stone ceiling, and wonder, What is it like to feel love? What is it like to be known?\" Later in the story he will use magical thinking, horses snorting and galloping throughout the prison, little men with hammers and other visuals he will use to keep his sanity. The prose is amazing and I believe that though this author has written non fiction this is her first novel. This book will evoke powerful emotions in the reader, whether they hate the book or admire, (can't really use like here, it just doesn't seem appropriate) what this author has managed to put down on a page, they will not read this and feel nothing. This is another book that I believe will haunt me. ARC from publisher. ...more Wild horses galloping underground. Really? I will hate this. \u201cBut it\u2019s not fantasy,\u201d my friend insists. I smile fakely and say without hesitation (like we all do when we know damn well it\u2019s not up our alley), \u201cSounds good, but I have a bunch of other books I have to read first.\u201d All along I\u2019m thinking, is she crazy? I hate fantasy! No way in hell will I read this. Then she actually buys me the book. Oh shit, how can I get out of it now? I vow to give it a try, reminding myself that it\u2019s perfectl Wild horses galloping underground. Really? I will hate this. \u201cBut it\u2019s not fantasy,\u201d my friend insists. I smile fakely and say without hesitation (like we all do when we know damn well it\u2019s not up our alley), \u201cSounds good, but I have a bunch of other books I have to read first.\u201d All along I\u2019m thinking, is she crazy? I hate fantasy! No way in hell will I read this. Then she actually buys me the book. Oh shit, how can I get out of it now? I vow to give it a try, reminding myself that it\u2019s perfectly okay to stop reading if I hate it. Fuck. First page, I\u2019m a goner. See for yourself. Here\u2019s how it begins: This is an enchanted place. Others don\u2019t see it but I do. I see every cinder block, every hallway and doorway. I see the doorways that lead to the secret stairs and the stairs that take you into stone towers and the towers that take you to windows and the windows that open to wide, clear air. I see the chamber where the cloudy medical vines snake across the floor, empty and waiting for the warden\u2019s finger to press the red buttons. This is a dark book, a brilliant book, mostly narrated by a madman on death row. The wild horses are merely running around in his imagination. This is, of course, totally acceptable to me, lol. They are the madman\u2019s fantasies; the author isn\u2019t feeding me a line that there are real wild horses underground. Pshew. I am now a ready and willing captive. The language is lyrical, just beauteous, which instantly draws me in but instantly worries me too. I don\u2019t want to commit to a long prose poem, I need a plot. I needn\u2019t have worried, though, because the plot is alive and riveting. There\u2019s some violence (not gory) and lots of sadness. Saying this book is dark is an understatement. I\u2019ve never thought of myself as loving dark books (I don\u2019t do horror books; don\u2019t go in for lots of violence), so it\u2019s odd I\u2019ve read of slew of dark books lately and they\u2019ve all been favorites. I liked the totally mad inmate telling the story. He\u2019s wise and sad and out there, and you can\u2019t help but feel sorry for him. A woman (simply called \u201cthe lady\u201d) investigates the life of an inmate who is about to be executed. There are evil inmates, an innocent inmate, a fallen priest, a bad guard, and a good warden. You feel their essence; the author gets kudos for being able to create such vivid and sympathetic characters in such a short book. The bleak descriptions of the prison drew me in. And being inside the complicated, brilliant, but sick head of the narrator as he astutely and emotionally observes the prison and the people within it, is chilling. He hears horses galloping underground and little men hammering in the walls, and you understand his reality. Hell, I started LIKING the invisible horses and the men with hammers. I felt like I was in on a secret, like the narrator was whispering truths in my ear, and no one else could hear. Other than one minor point-of-view problem, where the narrator\u2019s voice is interrupted by the inner thoughts of someone else, I have no complaints. I excuse that little glitch because I love the book so much. There is one other little issue that seems funny, only because I ran into the same exact problem in a book I just read. I just have to add it as a spoiler. (view spoiler) [Like in The Kind Worth Killing , the narrator describes his own death\u2014that impossible scenario! However, here, because I love the book, I didn\u2019t care at all. Maybe it\u2019s the horses and the guys hammering in the walls that make me chill a little when it comes to the logistics. Just had to mention it because I think it\u2019s odd that it happened in two books right in a row. In one it bothered me, but here, meh, so what? (hide spoiler) ] If, like me, you don\u2019t want to touch fantasy with a ten-foot pole, think twice on this one. My friend (whom I should have trusted all along) was right\u2014this isn\u2019t fantasy. I\u2019m so glad she kept pushing this book in my face. And who doesn\u2019t want to hear the fantasies of a mentally ill man on death row? Really. I didn\u2019t want to put this book down, yet I didn\u2019t want it to end either. Weird and brilliant. 5 stars all the way, baby. ...more What an extraordinary novel. Actually, I've never read anything like it. It has a fantastical feel to it, yet it is not fantasy as a genre. I'm finding it hard to relate a story that felt as if I was in an enchanted place, and yet is a story of prison, death, death row, a woman who comes to exchange death for life terms, and a priest who is disgraced. This prison is no ordinary prison though, it was built long, long ago, and has the feel of an ancient castle. The first sentence begins, \"This is a What an extraordinary novel. Actually, I've never read anything like it. It has a fantastical feel to it, yet it is not fantasy as a genre. I'm finding it hard to relate a story that felt as if I was in an enchanted place, and yet is a story of prison, death, death row, a woman who comes to exchange death for life terms, and a priest who is disgraced. This prison is no ordinary prison though, it was built long, long ago, and has the feel of an ancient castle. The first sentence begins, \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it, but I do.\" This is the voice of our narrator. He is a man on death row himself, one we rarely catch scant glimpses of. We know he is somewhat deformed, either through childhood abuse, or prison life itself. But it is he, the \"knower\" of this place, and he sees, and feels it all. The exquisite writing of Rene Denfeld is like no other. To provide a taste from the first paragraph, and a clearer picture of our narrator, she writes, \"I see the chamber where the cloudy medical vines snake across the floor, empty and waiting for the warden's finger to press the red button...urns of the dead spill ashes outside to feed the soil under the grasses, which wave to the sky...I see the golden horses as they run deep under the earth, heat flowing like molten metal from their backs. I see where the small men hide with their tiny hammers, and how the fibber-giblets dance while the oven slowly ticks.\" Denfeld can turn a striking phrase into a chilling experience. But, this novel is not filled with misery. It questions the ultimate meaning of life and death. What is the incessant pull towards life, or even death? Who really \"sees\" us in this desert we call life? What can truly be forgiven? This book left me with many essential questions. To be mesmerized by a novel is quite a feat, and Rene Denfeld has done that for me with perfection. ...more Thank You to the many friends on Goodreads who read this book before me.... especially to 'Doug'. When I read his review yesterday... I said...\"That's it, enough already\". I picked up the paperback copy which I own - and started reading! It's MORE than what I expected ... IT REALLY IS *THAT SPECIAL*!!!!!! When a mute nameless inmate first arrived at the prison ....( we learn he is on death row), he was pretty much illiterate ....but the library became his sanctuary. \"I loved the ways the precious Thank You to the many friends on Goodreads who read this book before me.... especially to 'Doug'. When I read his review yesterday... I said...\"That's it, enough already\". I picked up the paperback copy which I own - and started reading! It's MORE than what I expected ... IT REALLY IS *THAT SPECIAL*!!!!!! When a mute nameless inmate first arrived at the prison ....( we learn he is on death row), he was pretty much illiterate ....but the library became his sanctuary. \"I loved the ways the precious stories took shape but always had room to be ready again. I became fascinated with how writers did that. How do they make a story feel so complete and yet so open-minded? It was like painting a picture that changed each time you look at it.\" The book \"The White Dawn\", was comforting to him ... which he read over and over. When he first started reading, he didn't know how to sound out many of the words: \"Sioux, paisley, ruche, Obsolete, rubric, crux. How do you say those words? How do they sound when others say them? Are they as pretty as a sound inside my head?\" He tried endlessly to say the word 'Sioux' ...He was still not sure how it sounds. \"Is the X silent?\" In the end he decided it really didn't matter. Books brought brilliance to his life. They brought understanding. \"Life is a story\". \"Everything that is happened and will happen to me is all part of the story of this enchanted place \u2013 \u2013 all the dreams and visions and understandings that come to me in my dungeon cell.\" Our nameless-first-person narrator has a vivid imagination - lots of magical activity going on inside his head. ( creative descriptions of sounds -miniature men with tiny hammers in the walls- horses gallop free, etc.). Other inmates are: York, Arden, Conroy, Risk, white hair boy, the warden, the Priest, and *The Lady*. *The Lady*, is the death penalty investigator. Much of the story is told from her point of view in third person narrative. Early on in this story, I couldn't help but wonder what might be her inspiration for this job she has chosen. Then...we see her remembering back to her childhood ... and I began to understand her amazing compassion for the inmates. \"What did she think about during those endless hours in the laurel hedge? As a child she made an imaginary World so real that she could feel and taste it today. Sometimes she would imagine that she and her mom lived on a magical island where the trees dripped fruit. Other times they traveled all over the world, just the two of them, like the best of buddies. In all the stories, her mom was whole and she was safe. When she left the laurel hedge, she would send the thick green leaves back, to hide where she had been. And when she came back the next day, crawling with the sandwich she had made of stale bread with the mold cut off and harden peanut butter from the jar, and magic world would be waiting for her.\" The imagery and prose is lustrous. Yet at the same time - the author has us take a deep look inside the walls of prison life. The place is old and filthy. We see both sides of the coin: The horrific crimes that inmates have committed...and the indignity, humiliation, and abuse the authorities afflict on them. Parts of this book was really agonizing to read. Yet it was absolutely beautiful to see how the author, Rene Denfeld, gave these men on death row a sense of humanity. \"The entire enchanted place sighs with sadness\". HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! ...more Been thinking about this book a lot since I read it. Truly exceptional. And definitely in my top ten ever.... This is truly an enchanted book, a wondrous story. I was thinking yesterday when I finished it that it compared with The Road, which made a big impact on me. That this is without a doubt one of the best books I ever read. It's a sad, gruesome dark story but also, weirdly enough, one of hope and love. And, beautifully written, a poetic style, which is strangly contrasting with the topic of Been thinking about this book a lot since I read it. Truly exceptional. And definitely in my top ten ever.... This is truly an enchanted book, a wondrous story. I was thinking yesterday when I finished it that it compared with The Road, which made a big impact on me. That this is without a doubt one of the best books I ever read. It's a sad, gruesome dark story but also, weirdly enough, one of hope and love. And, beautifully written, a poetic style, which is strangly contrasting with the topic of the story: death row. The story follows a mute inmate on death row who follows and observes developments on death row, which is deep down in the dungeons of the prison building. It's about York, an inmate on death row who wants to die; the lady, who tries to investigate York's case to get him off the death sentence; about a fallen priest in the prison. The lady and the fallen priest fall in love but don't know how to handle it... The boy with the white hair who is abused in prison, and one day decides to take fate in his own hands... The honest and troubled warden, whose wife is dying of cancer...All people with dark happenings in their lives. The mute inmate hears little men in the walls...And then the horses, the golden horses that run and run and run and make a real stampede in the prison at crucial moments. Fantasy or reality? Well, I cried at the end... like when I finished the Road. And the book, this is why I always want to read real books. A grainy book, the golden horses lay on top of the print of the cover, the bars are stamped into the book, the pages unevenly cut.. a real live, beautiful book. It will get a top spot on my shelves. This is what the inside flap of the book says: 'The enchanted is a magical novel about redemption, the poetry that can exist within the unfathomable, and the human capacity to transcend and survive even the most nightmarish reality. Beautiful and unexpected, this is a memorable story.' Rene Denfeld is an author, journalist and death penalty investigator, that all makes sense. An extraordinary book. Highly, highly recommended. ...more This book was a perfect mix of everything I love. First, I love prison. Wait, let me start over... First, I love stories about institutions like this. Two of my favorite movies are \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" and \"The Shawshank Redemption\". I also toured Alcatraz while in San Francisco last year. I'm not really sure what that says about me, but there is probably some deeper psychological meaning in there somewhere. Anyway, I love these types of stories. This felt so real, and I loved how it This book was a perfect mix of everything I love. First, I love prison. Wait, let me start over... First, I love stories about institutions like this. Two of my favorite movies are \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" and \"The Shawshank Redemption\". I also toured Alcatraz while in San Francisco last year. I'm not really sure what that says about me, but there is probably some deeper psychological meaning in there somewhere. Anyway, I love these types of stories. This felt so real, and I loved how it bounced around between different stories to focus on various characters. Second, I love fantasy books so it was really cool to see some fantasy elements mixed into the story. All of the mystical stuff the narrator described added a unique layer to the story. It's all about death row and the toll it takes on the inmates and staff, but there were times when it felt like Harry Potter when golden horses or small men with hammers came onto the scene. And, finally, this story was the perfect length. It's just over 200 pages, and it never wastes time. Every sentence was important. There weren't pages of character development or paragraph after paragraph about the setting of each scene. It felt like The Handmaid's Tale or Bird Box since it had that minimal, bleak tone throughout the story. And, finally (for real this time), I loved the ending. I haven't been able to say that recently so it feels good to finally be able to enjoy how a book wrapped up. Parts of the ending felt like Paul Thomas Anderson co-wrote the book, and I'm honestly not completely sure I \"get\" everything I should have from the ending, but I loved it. I'm often like a cranky old man and find everything that's wrong with a book so I can complain about it in my review. This time I don't have anything to complain about. This book is awesome. It's awesome. ...more This book was not at all what I expected, and it utterly blew me away. \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it but I do.\" When you think enchanted places, the last thing that comes to mind is an ancient prison, but that is where this beautiful book takes place. It is narrated by a prisoner on death row, where the prisoners are kept in an underground dungeon of sorts. The narrator cannot speak, but he sees and envisions incredible things\u2014golden horses who run hard beneath the prison follow This book was not at all what I expected, and it utterly blew me away. \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it but I do.\" When you think enchanted places, the last thing that comes to mind is an ancient prison, but that is where this beautiful book takes place. It is narrated by a prisoner on death row, where the prisoners are kept in an underground dungeon of sorts. The narrator cannot speak, but he sees and envisions incredible things\u2014golden horses who run hard beneath the prison following every execution, and tiny men that hammer away inside the prison's stone walls, carrying the gossip, threats, and laments from cell to cell. The narrator isn't upset that his death is imminent. He lives for the moments when the prison trusties bring him books, and he lives for the moments when his other senses come alive in the prison\u2014his ability to hear the magical sounds and smell the scents coming from outside the prison walls. \"I have been inside one locked room or another since I was nine. I am accustomed to it, buried inside rooms that are buried inside other rooms that are buried inside electric razor fences. The walls that might make others feel like they are suffocating have become my lungs.\" In the midst of the corruption that runs through the prison behind the kindly warden's back (kindly despite his role in walking men to their executions), two people work to change the tenor of the environment\u2014a fallen priest, whose role is to counsel men waiting for death, and a woman, known as the Lady, who is hired as an investigator to try and get some of the prisoners' death sentences overturned. When she begins looking into the case of an inmate who doesn't want her help and wants to die, she uncovers secrets which hit a little too close to home for her. This is such a compelling story; it's as much about the goings-on inside a prison and the musings of a man condemned to death as it is about the lives of those who work within the system, and how they are able to keep moving forward day to day in the midst of such crushing circumstances. It's also a book about the small things that can bring hope and happiness, even when you're a death row inmate. I thought this was going to be more fantastical than realistic, and while there are elements of fantasy and imagination, this is a book firmly rooted in the realism of the criminal justice system. And while it's certainly a bit of a downer, Rene Denfeld has created such a memorable cast of characters, and designed such a unique spin on what we've come to expect from books and movies about prisons, this is a book you'll feel in your heart as it engages your mind. Denfeld's storytelling and her use of language were pretty fantastic. I won't be surprised to see this book on my best-of list for 2016 early next year!! See all of my reviews at http://itseithersadnessoreuphoria.blo... . ...more The Enchanted is not your traditional fairy tale. It is deep, dark and disturbing, and takes place on death row. It's what is created to sustain an inmate's sanity and survival. It's a glimpse into the human side of monsters who have done unthinkable horrors to others. It's a story of hope even as death waits. This is a read I found myself putting down frequently to contemplate. Denfeld manages to do the unthinkable: have us feel compassion for men we consider evil. 5 stars and a must read. The Enchanted by Rene Denfeld. 2.5 Stars Let me start my review by saying I wanted very badly to love this book like all my friends on Goodreads that have read it and have been seduced by it. To them I say.............I am Jealous of you all. I pre ordered my copy in Hardback as this was going to be one of those books that would not be borrowed under any circumstances and would remain on my book shelf for many years to come. But unfortunately I wasn't enchanted or impressed by it and was l The Enchanted by Rene Denfeld. 2.5 Stars Let me start my review by saying I wanted very badly to love this book like all my friends on Goodreads that have read it and have been seduced by it. To them I say.............I am Jealous of you all. I pre ordered my copy in Hardback as this was going to be one of those books that would not be borrowed under any circumstances and would remain on my book shelf for many years to come. But unfortunately I wasn't enchanted or impressed by it and was left feeling rather disappointed by much of the book and I will try and explain my reasons for my disappointment. First the book is set in an ancient stone prison somewhere in America and to begin with I was drawn into the story until the author introduced the magic realism aspect of the tale and I was completely thrown and just disconnected with the book completely. I don't get magic realism and I think being Irish may have been told too many stories of fairly forts and enchanted forests as child. I wanted to get to know the characters in this novel more and every time I thought I was getting the background information on one character (most of which remained nameless) I was thrown in a different direction. I found the fact that some of the characters remained nameless more distracting and confusing than an element of intrigue. I never seemed to get a sense of time or place from the novel and couldn't identity with the story as a result. I just finished the book feeling dissatisfied. Now I have to agree the prose is impressive and this author knows how to draw in her audience. As I said at the beginning I am envious of my friends who enjoyed this story and for anyone reading this review be assured my dislike of this story is based on the fact that I don't enjoy stories when magic realism is an element. And so this beautiful book will not sit on my book shelf :-( but rest assured all you lovers of The Enchanted I will endeavor to find a suitable home for it among my friends. ...more \"Back so long ago, when they built this enchanted place, they killed men in three ways: They waited for them to die, they worked them to death, and they hanged them. Not much has changed. Instead of working men to death, there is a slow starvation of the body and soul. And instead of rope, they use a machine.\" \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it, but I do.\" Publisher's synopsis The enchanted place is an ancient stone prison, viewed through the eyes of a death row inmate who finds es \"Back so long ago, when they built this enchanted place, they killed men in three ways: They waited for them to die, they worked them to death, and they hanged them. Not much has changed. Instead of working men to death, there is a slow starvation of the body and soul. And instead of rope, they use a machine.\" \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it, but I do.\" Publisher's synopsis The enchanted place is an ancient stone prison, viewed through the eyes of a death row inmate who finds escape in his books and in re-imagining life around him, weaving a fantastical story of the people he observes and the world he inhabits. Fearful and reclusive, he senses what others cannot. Though bars confine him every minute of every day, he marries magical visions of golden horses running beneath the prison, heat flowing like molten metal from their backs, with the devastating violence of prison life. Two outsiders venture here: a fallen priest, and the Lady, an investigator who searches for buried information from prisoners' pasts that can save those soon-to-be-executed. Digging into the background of a killer named York, she uncovers wrenching truths that challenge familiar notions of victim and criminal, innocence and guilt, honor and corruption-ultimately revealing shocking secrets of her own. Review If there is one book that you simply must read over the course of 2014, it is The Enchanted. This is one of the most powerful, moving, haunting, intense, gut-wrenching, perplexing and captivating reads that I have experienced in a long, long time. I can not rate this book highly enough. 24 hours after having finished it I am still there, in the prison dungeons, listening, lurking, completely transfixed. Written by Rene Denfeld, a fact investigator in death penalty cases, The Enchanted is a powerful book that gives death row a face. It is about characters whose lives intersect on death row; an inmate, an investigator and a chaplain, together with some strong secondary characters. The story of each character individually is compelling, but they are interconnected so beautifully that they burst with emotion. The fluid prose that defines this novel is passionate and thought-provoking. Denfeld so artfully balances moments of stark sadness and cruelty, with such poignant images of beauty and grace. Death row inmates deal with their demons in different ways. Some clutch their faith. Others draw or paint or write. Our narrator chooses to read voraciously and live in a fantasy world. \"The most wonderful enchanted things happen here - the most enchanted things you can imagine. I want to tell you while I still have time, before they close the black curtain and I take my final bow.\" Those on death row are convicted criminals; many are guilty of unspeakable cruelty and the most vicious of crimes. The Enchanted paints a picture of the 'person' and not just the crime for which they were committed. It explores the why. What made this person? Why did they do the things they did? What does it mean to be human? He holds his fingers out of the cage. It is the eternal gesture of hope that says \"touch me\". This book by design is intrusive and uncomfortable and challenges our core beliefs. But it is also beaufiful and breathtaking and simply enchanting. A must read for everyone. 5/5 magical golden horses! ...more 5\u2605 \u201c Maybe we can stop men like me from happening. The lady has a gift, and I hope she keeps using it. It is the gift of understanding men like me.\u201d This book is compelling, haunting, mesmerizing, edgy, uncomfortable, unforgettable. I feel the need to find a Thesaurus to find words adequate enough to describe it. It immerses the reader in the pain of others causing one to rethink some ground rules you may have set for the limits of your compassion and does so with beautiful writing and pacing. Thi 5\u2605 \u201c Maybe we can stop men like me from happening. The lady has a gift, and I hope she keeps using it. It is the gift of understanding men like me.\u201d This book is compelling, haunting, mesmerizing, edgy, uncomfortable, unforgettable. I feel the need to find a Thesaurus to find words adequate enough to describe it. It immerses the reader in the pain of others causing one to rethink some ground rules you may have set for the limits of your compassion and does so with beautiful writing and pacing. Think of the most evil real life criminals guilty of unspeakable crimes against others and then imagine being a fly on the wall in their cells or seeing inside their twisted minds. This book is a virtual trip into their world. So dark yet not the nightmare I feared. By that I mean the author was very revealing, yet restrained. Reading it reminded me of Alfred Hitchcock\u2019s genius of building almost unbearable suspense by pulling his audience into a film but allowing the space to use their own imagination; what one writer described as \u201coften inviting them to fill in the blanks.\" There are the right amount of blanks in these pages. I feared it might be too gruesome and put off reading it for a long time based on that fear. How can I explain how awesome this book is; that I\u2019m grateful to the author for composing something that reached my deepest humanity? It\u2019s fiction based on fact because she\u2019s the lady who has been there and knows that ugly and disturbing as it is, more people need to look more closely if we ever hope to have some answers and hope. No regrets here. ...more Every once in a great while, a book enters my life and quick like ivy, its words and images rise and twist around my imagination and intellect. Rene Denfeld's extraordinary debut The Enchanted is one such book. I feel compelled to push it into everyone's hands, saying, \"You must read this. You simply must.\" It's been nearly two years since the last time I read something that made me ache to shout it from the rooftops--another debut by an Oregon writer: Amanda Coplin's The Orchardist . Yet, these Every once in a great while, a book enters my life and quick like ivy, its words and images rise and twist around my imagination and intellect. Rene Denfeld's extraordinary debut The Enchanted is one such book. I feel compelled to push it into everyone's hands, saying, \"You must read this. You simply must.\" It's been nearly two years since the last time I read something that made me ache to shout it from the rooftops--another debut by an Oregon writer: Amanda Coplin's The Orchardist . Yet, these two books could not be more dissimilar in style, content, and theme. I nearly set this aside after just a few pages. I will caution you. The Enchanted deals with the ugliest, most hopeless themes a writer can conjure: abuse, incest, rape, mental illness, murder. It is set in a prison. Two of its characters are on death row. And yet. Rene Denfeld works a kind of magic. This is a book of luminous and captivating prose and imagery, where angels of mercy shimmer in the darkest corners. Where horses gallop free, making the dripping, crumbling walls in the lowest level of this Gothic nightmare of a prison shudder and the warden laugh, even as he prepares a prisoner for his final moments on earth. The author seamlessly weaves multiple points of view and many richly drawn characters into a very few pages. The narrator is the only first-person perspective. He is the prison's most notorious death row resident, but his crimes remain untold. Mute, communicating only with the reader from the maze of his mind, this inmate views death row as sanctuary, its dank confines the only place he has found peace. Some characters are named: the prisoners York, Risk, Arden; Conroy, a brutal guard; Auntie Beth, a witness to a young boy's wretched upbringing. Other characters, whom we come to know intimately, painfully, remain only lower case titles: the warden; the priest; the white-haired boy. The lady. The lady. She is a death row investigator, like the author herself. Retained by York's attorneys, she is delving into the condemned's life, trying to uncover evidence that can be used to stay York's execution, to transmute his sentence from death to life. They share, as she learns, a similar horrific past. Yet, she became an angel-wounded, with broken wings- and he became a demon. York spurns her attempts to find mercy. He wants to die. Death is nearly as present a character as any living one in The Enchanted and the reader is reminded that we are all the walking dead, facing the same inevitable end as those on death row. Denfeld forces our moral hand, showing us all sides of the debate: the victims, the criminals, the decision-makers, and we are put in the uncomfortable position of empathizing with each. The warden, whose wife is in the end stages of cancer, contemplates the pro and anti death penalty protestors gathering outside his prison before an execution, and He wonders why so many easily accept death when it's caused by old age or cancer or even suicide, yet refuse to endorse death by execution. It seems wrong to him. No on deserves death more than someone like York or Striker or especially Arden. And yet those are the deaths that others will say are unnatural, not that of his dear sweet wide, a woman who raised three kids and never did anyone a wrong pass. There are few writers who can wrest hope from the pit of horror with such eloquence. I think of Elie Wiesel and Primo Levi, who chronicled their Holocaust experiences, or Maya Angelou and Toni Morrison showing us the wretchedness of slavery and Jim Crow. These writers compel us to bear witness to humanity's darkest hours with beautiful language. With the same poignant but unsentimental style, Rene Denfeld applies a tender, humane voice to society's nightmares. She pries them open, releasing mystical creatures as symbols that help us understand our complex, real fears. Astonishing, original, terrible, and exquisite. It would not surprise me to see this nominated for book awards, and ranked high on critics' best of lists. It damn well better be. ...more Like many people I had been putting off reading this book largely because I don't really go for depressing literature and what could be more depressing than a story set on Death Row. Well I was so, so wrong. This is an amazing book, beautifully written and not a bit depressing even though it is often sad. If that sounds like a contradiction then read it for yourself and you will understand. The narrator is an inmate awaiting his excecution and his name and his crime are kept as a mystery until t Like many people I had been putting off reading this book largely because I don't really go for depressing literature and what could be more depressing than a story set on Death Row. Well I was so, so wrong. This is an amazing book, beautifully written and not a bit depressing even though it is often sad. If that sounds like a contradiction then read it for yourself and you will understand. The narrator is an inmate awaiting his excecution and his name and his crime are kept as a mystery until the end of the book. Other main characters also do not have names and include some very sympathetic people such as the Lady and the Warden, both of whom I liked very much. I loved the golden horses and the little men in the walls which turned out to be in the narrator's mind but were delightful anyway. In fact I loved the whole thing. An amazing book which grabbed me on page one and didn't let me go until the very last word. ...more I am late to the party on this book and I'm going to be the odd one out on \"The Enchanted\". Most people loved it but sadly not me. It is original and beautifully written but so so so dark that it didn't work for me. The magical realism with the subject matter I struggled with. Don't take my word for it. Try It! It's a case of it's me not the book. The Enchanted: Living in Darkness Rene Denfeld has written a compelling novel regarding the moral question of capital punishment in her novel The Enchanted . Denfeld is an author who writes what she knows. She is a death penalty investigator who works on cases of the condemned, reviewing their cases to assess whether an inmate's sentence was properly imposed. Her findings may lead to a new trial for her clients. Or an inmate's conviction may be upheld and the ultimate punishment may be imposed. Not The Enchanted: Living in Darkness Rene Denfeld has written a compelling novel regarding the moral question of capital punishment in her novel The Enchanted . Denfeld is an author who writes what she knows. She is a death penalty investigator who works on cases of the condemned, reviewing their cases to assess whether an inmate's sentence was properly imposed. Her findings may lead to a new trial for her clients. Or an inmate's conviction may be upheld and the ultimate punishment may be imposed. Not only does Denfeld address the lives of those on death row, she reveals the darkness of prison life. Those inmates, not on death row, but who are the \"shot callers\" on the prison yards, brutal human beings her exercise power over those weaker than themselves. Here are the inconvenient truths of prisoners improperly classified, thrown in with more hardened men who repeatedly use the weak for their own sexual pleasure. Corrupt guards who turn a blind eye to violence and male rape. The receipt of heroin and marijuana into prison populations. Corrupt administrators who become rich by promoting the trafficking of those drugs. In such a nightmarish world, one does not expect to find the beauty Denfeld is able to depict through the narration of a nameless inmate, a fallen priest who administers to the condemned, and \"The Lady,\" an unnamed death penalty investigator. But it is here. There is a terrible beauty that permeates this painful story of broken individuals. Yes, there is enchantment here, as hard as it is to conceive it might exist. It is a world of imagination, especially portrayed through the eyes of the nameless inmate who words alternate with chapters devoted to the work of \"The Lady\" and the Priest. This is not an easy read. It can be an especially painful read. Denfeld, without resorting to lengthy legal descriptions of the arduous appellate process in capital cases, portrays the hopelessness of inmates on death row. There is York, to whose case the Lady has been assigned. York has lived on death row for so long he has lost any hope. He prefers that the Lady not pursue his case. He is ready to die. The certainty of his death is more comforting to York than the interminable passing of time. We witness the progress of The Lady's work on York's case through her exploration of York's past. As in many cases like York's, evidence of his damaged childhood might have been presented at his trial during a sentencing hearing. However, the comptetency of his appointed lawyers, nicknamed Grim and Reaper, represent those lawyers who rarely delve into an inmate's past that might have lead to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. Alternately, the nameless inmate, listens to The Lady's conversations with York, revealing a multidemnsional picture of the investigative process. This inmate's reality is distorted by his escapes into his imagination, his perception of a fantastical magic, yet whose observations are unerringly true. The tragedy of our nameless narrator is he is incapable of speech. The reader should never think that Denfeld perceives her clients as blameless, or innocent. It is clear from her very balanced portrayal of death row inmates that, indeed, as John Steinbeck said in East of Eden , \"There are monsters among us...and to the monstrous, the norm is monstrous.\" This is a book that deserves to be read. Even though its contents may challenge your core beliefs. The Enchanted is a book that remains with the reader long after turning the final page. Is this a book for everyone? I think not. I do not recommend it for survivors of victims of violent crimes. I believe it just might be too hard to take. It is a work that is capable of challenging anyone's emotions and beliefs. This Reader's Personal Reflection For almost twenty-eight years I was a career Prosecutor. The most terrible duty I was charged with was to try Capital Punishment Cases. I am among those lawyers whose job is not addressed in Denfeld's novel. I found that surprising. Yet, I am mindful of the reasons Denfeld wrote this book and the manner in which she chose to tell it. Death Penalty cases, over the years in which I tried them, became a danse macabre. In many ways it is an arduous responsibility that diminishes the spirit of the Prosecutor and takes an emotional toll that we in that profession rarely speak of. These are cases of hypertechnical issues that result in an eerie pavane of dance steps that must be made. At the same time, we live with the hearts and minds of the shattered survivors of the victims. Those left behind by the brutal murders hold on to the belief that justice will bring closure in a reasonable period of time. It never does. As I write this, a Defendant who murdered his son the day before the child was to be christened on Easter Sunday, remains on death row after sixteen years. I was the lead trial lawyer in the second trial of that case many years before. The child's mother and other family still deal with a baby's death more than twenty years afterward. Over the years since I have retired in 2006, The United States Supreme Court has issued multiple rulings on various issues regarding capital punishment cases. Decisions changing previous precedents. The result has been a killing of the imposition of the death penalty by inches. Rather than biting the bullet and having the political courage to end Capital Punishment in America. You see, the Death Penalty is a very political issue that is too hot to handle. It is an issue that reflects on political partisanship by members of a United States Supreme Court shaped by the appointment of Justices during Republican administrations. The costs of enforcing the death penalty now outstrips the cost of keeping a convicted inmate in prison for the rest of his natural life. So for me, one the outcome of the Presidential Election of 2016, will be who fills the current vacancy on our Supreme Court and any future appointments. Surprising thoughts from a man who devoted his professional life to prosecution of our criminal laws? I think not. None of us should be unaware of the presumably guilty on death row who have been found innocent by means of DNA evidence and other means. It is time we reconsidered whether the death penalty should be preserved any longer. ...more The Enchanted is a dark and gloomy heartbreaking tale with just enough hope and magic to bring the reader back to the light, but not a book I would read again. It is a story about the ugliness of prison life on Death Row, of living life in an evil underground dungeon. It is about black-shirted execution squads and corrupt guards who order young men in general population to the rape shed for personal gain, then call them used, broken and throwaways to break their spirit of any hope. It is about su The Enchanted is a dark and gloomy heartbreaking tale with just enough hope and magic to bring the reader back to the light, but not a book I would read again. It is a story about the ugliness of prison life on Death Row, of living life in an evil underground dungeon. It is about black-shirted execution squads and corrupt guards who order young men in general population to the rape shed for personal gain, then call them used, broken and throwaways to break their spirit of any hope. It is about surviving, but wishing death would come bringing a new beginning. It is also a story of a lonely man who will not speak bc his past is so vile, but reads a favorite book to let the words carry him away to another place, another world not so ugly. It is about a lady who continues to investigate backgrounds of hopeless, ruined men to perhaps save a life, a lady with her own damaged past looking for answers. It is about a fallen priest who wants forgiveness, acceptance.....love, and it is about a white-haired boy who finds a way to be whole again. Beautifully written, but also brutally descriptive and disturbing. Thankfully, some do find peace and happiness in the end. ...more I'm fairly numb after reading The Enchanted and have just a few comments: What is it like not to feel love, to live a life unable to feel compassion? How do you scream when there is no-one to hear you? Such a haunting and difficult to read book. Denfeld has written a superbly evocative novel, well worthy of 5\u2605 How can a book be so magical and gritty and utterly brutal at the same time? This one will definitely stay with me for a while. I highly, highly recommend it! Huge trigger warning for rape, abuse and all kinds of horrible stuff though. This book really packs a punch. ***SPOILERS*** Unbelievably poignant, beautifully written story of the life of prisoners on death row living in the \"dungeon\" waiting for their time to come. And then there are the few angels who come to visit them, a fallen priest and the lady who is hired to try to reverse their death sentences. The enchanted one is a mute skeletal old man who escapes into the world of the few books available to him and describes his impressions of what is going on in the prison, the corrupt guard and powerful ***SPOILERS*** Unbelievably poignant, beautifully written story of the life of prisoners on death row living in the \"dungeon\" waiting for their time to come. And then there are the few angels who come to visit them, a fallen priest and the lady who is hired to try to reverse their death sentences. The enchanted one is a mute skeletal old man who escapes into the world of the few books available to him and describes his impressions of what is going on in the prison, the corrupt guard and powerful horrible inmates, the 16 year old boy....don't want to describe his life there, the tiny little things that help him survive without ever being touched, never seeing the outside, smelling the tiny little things around him like the smell of autumn leaves on the guards shoes, tasting water that has trickled into his room from the guards' coats and tasting that water knowing it is full of the life of springtime, etc. The genius here is the way the story is told from inside of each of the primary character's stream of consciousness about their current life, their backgrounds and mostly horrible life experiences and upbringings, and how they are now in this horrible place. And yet the mind is able to escape much of the terrible situation and create a sort of \"enchanted\" existence, a mental escape that helps them deal with being nothing, despised, forgotten, barely kept alive and in most cases, having only experienced a tiny bit of love, sometimes from mothers that were abused or for various reasons, totally incapable. I was so affected by some of the stories, that I too started to fantasize about being some kind of powerful death angel or god, someone who could go in and wipe some people out and correct the injustice. What a brilliant and excellent book. Even though the story deals with all of these tough to read about things, it is written in such a poetic way that it was easy to read even though I was cringing most of the way through, a few tears here and there, a little bit of redemption (but not much) here and there, but it also left me feeling that life is one hard hard experience and that sometimes, good people get crushed, and there are some people who are so wonderful, so loving, so humble they deserve to be translated right into the highest part of heaven. ...more Inside, the lies you tell become the person you become. On the outside, sun and reality shrink people back to their actual size. In here, people grow into their shadows. This book is a harsh reality. It's full of conflicted faulty individuals. The tone is dark and depressing. The writing is poetic and beautiful. And, with the first sentence, I was drawn in. \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it, but I do.\" I love how nameless characters tell the story; the warden, the lady, the fa Inside, the lies you tell become the person you become. On the outside, sun and reality shrink people back to their actual size. In here, people grow into their shadows. This book is a harsh reality. It's full of conflicted faulty individuals. The tone is dark and depressing. The writing is poetic and beautiful. And, with the first sentence, I was drawn in. \"This is an enchanted place. Others don't see it, but I do.\" I love how nameless characters tell the story; the warden, the lady, the fallen priest, even our narrators identity remains unknown until the end. It leaves the reader wondering how someone can do such terrible things, is labeled the baddest of the bad, but is still capable of seeing the beauty in everything around him. My soul left me when I was six. It flew away past a flapping curtain over the window. I ran after it, but it never came back. It left me alone on a wet, stinking mattresses. It left me alone in the choking dark. It took my tongue, my heart, and my mind. I highly recommend this book to everyone. ...more This book was a really enjoyable reading despite of the dark subject it was dealing with. It was the firs of the kind I have read. A book about prison. While reading,unavoidably, the film The Green Mile was in my mind. This what I used to picture it. The book follows different peoples who one way or another are connected to a prison. Prisoners, guards, a fallen priest, an inveatigator. And we witness how their way of thinking and their philosophy of life is affected by the instution they are invo This book was a really enjoyable reading despite of the dark subject it was dealing with. It was the firs of the kind I have read. A book about prison. While reading,unavoidably, the film The Green Mile was in my mind. This what I used to picture it. The book follows different peoples who one way or another are connected to a prison. Prisoners, guards, a fallen priest, an inveatigator. And we witness how their way of thinking and their philosophy of life is affected by the instution they are involved in. I would say that it is a book about definition of one's identifications. Many of the people in the book come to a point where they need to face their own selves, their past, and what led them to be who they are in present time. Also from a cognitive viewpoint, while reading this book I found out some new things about prison life and what happens inside these institutions. Enlightening. The thing I found difficult to conceive though, is the concept of the horses running underneath the prison during an executions. Generally, it was an easy reading book providing a lot of food for thought. ...more \u201cFor us, time doesn\u2019t exist. The measurements of life \u2013 birth, death, loss, marriage, love, lust, happiness \u2013 have no meaning in this dungeon. Time passes here, but it doesn\u2019t count. I could have a clock, but what would the dial tell me? Nothing. When time no longer exists, you don\u2019t care about getting up, you don\u2019t think about birthdays, you don\u2019t think back to people you lost. You float free in the universe, untethered to anyone or anything. Your heart is empty, and because your heart is empty \u201cFor us, time doesn\u2019t exist. The measurements of life \u2013 birth, death, loss, marriage, love, lust, happiness \u2013 have no meaning in this dungeon. Time passes here, but it doesn\u2019t count. I could have a clock, but what would the dial tell me? Nothing. When time no longer exists, you don\u2019t care about getting up, you don\u2019t think about birthdays, you don\u2019t think back to people you lost. You float free in the universe, untethered to anyone or anything. Your heart is empty, and because your heart is empty, you have no time. You have no place in the universe. At least I used to think this way. Only listening to the lady and the priest has made me feel a little different. I think more about time now. Not for me but for the lady.\u201d So says the narrator of this very powerful and intense book set in one of the darkest of places \u2013 the death row of an antiquated stone prison. Told through the first-person \u201cvoice\u201d of a condemned man who has committed heinous and indescribable crimes, The Enchanted is simultaneously heartrending, hopeful and beautiful. As one would expect, the subject matter is often unsettling; however, the author does not go over the top with extreme and graphic images. Denfeld conveys to the reader the very real and ugly side to lives filled with physical, sexual, and mental abuse, the consequences of such horrors, and ultimately the atrocities of prison life itself; but she does so in an unusually quiet manner. The Lady, unnamed in this novel, is an attorney-hired investigator tasked with searching for information that could save the lives of death row inmates once their execution dates have been set. Sometimes successful and occasionally not, the Lady is confronted with a most difficult and rare case \u2013 that of York, who does not wish to be saved from death. Through her research, the Lady again confronts the misery of her own past which is not so different from that of York\u2019s. This gives the Lady a unique perspective and perhaps an additional passion to help York and men like him. Her inclination to truly listen helps York open up and speak to her. \u201cThe words tumble out as rough as rocks, but they are soon worn smooth, and more and more he hears himself talking \u2013 blessed surcease, a person just to listen to me \u2013 and the vowels round and the consonants grow into planets that become the universe that expands in the light in her dark eyes. She hears me, he thinks wildly \u2013 she hears me.\u201d Throughout the novel, the reader also feels the raw pain of other damaged individuals such as the fallen priest in need of love and forgiveness, the white-haired boy who is a victim of the system and a recipient of the awful abuse within the prison walls, and the warden tormented by the anguish of his wife\u2019s illness and impending death. And then, of course, we are always brought back to the narrator and his own inner turmoil. Described as a monster as a result of his crimes, the narrator manages the confusion and heartache of his past and the fears of everyday prison life by reading books and creating an imaginative world full of \u201cenchantment\u201d, running horses with \u201cgold-flecked nostrils and bronzed skin\u201d , tiny men with hammers within the walls, and other such fantasies. The reader in me could not help but delight in and identify with his love for books. \u201cAfter a time, it seemed that the world inside the books became my world. So when I thought of my childhood, it was dandelion wine and ice cream on a summer porch, like Ray Bradbury, and catching catfish with Huck Finn. My own memories receded and the book memories became the real memories, far more than the outside, far more even than in here.\u201d In a sense, books were his salvation. But, I think too, that the Lady was his salvation as well. Through his eyes we see her develop a relationship with the fallen priest, we see her deal with her own demons and nightmares of her past, and like the narrator, we gain a sense of hope that one can rise above the unthinkable miseries of a damaging childhood. \u201cThe lady is like me in many ways. Serpents crawl inside her. She is deathly afraid that others will see them. She is afraid, and yet she wants the priest to see inside her and accept the monsters that wrap around the secret, pure part of her \u2013 the part she managed to save, miraculously, that so many of us have lost. She knows the monsters are there and yet wants to be seen. Her courage frightens and amazes me. It makes me hopeful for her. It makes me crave happiness for her. Is that what you call love? Is that what you call hope?\u201d Thought-provoking, simply but hauntingly beautiful, and with a perfect ending, The Enchanted is one you should not miss. I highly recommend this book that gets 4.5 stars from me. ...more I had not previously heard of The Enchanted before seeing it on a book club wall. I was interested, but not all that much, right? I really wasn\u2019t expecting it to be this good. Before reading, I had barely glanced at the jacket description. I do that sometimes because I just don\u2019t want to know. Therefore, I had this idea going in that the building itself, housing the prisoners, was the \u201cenchanted\u201d, and hence the reason for the title. I figured we had a fantasy here of some sort. Well, I was wrong. I had not previously heard of The Enchanted before seeing it on a book club wall. I was interested, but not all that much, right? I really wasn\u2019t expecting it to be this good. Before reading, I had barely glanced at the jacket description. I do that sometimes because I just don\u2019t want to know. Therefore, I had this idea going in that the building itself, housing the prisoners, was the \u201cenchanted\u201d, and hence the reason for the title. I figured we had a fantasy here of some sort. Well, I was wrong. That happens a lot. To describe what the enchanted means in the book would probably spoil a few things, so I won\u2019t. Rene Denfeld writing is almost lyrical, especially in areas of the book where she just lets it go. Within the seriousness of the story, there are elements of satire and of fantasy. At one point in the book, our unnamed narrator, a man waiting on death row in the dungeon of the building, feels the tremors of the golden horses beginning their run deep down in the earth below the dungeons. Denfeld doesn\u2019t come out and tell us what these golden horses are; she lets the reader figure it out through the mind of the narrator. There are a handful of other characters at the center of the story; the lady, the fallen priest to name a couple of them. Each has a subplot that knits the whole story into one. I got to say that I almost gave it four stars because at times the prison is made out to be so bad it\u2019s unreal. But then I remember it is a book of fiction meant to give a point and I get over myself. Can\u2019t say it\u2019s for everyone\u2019s list, but I really liked it. ...more I don't think I've ever read a book with so many broken people. I think that some readers are going to say that the author is promoting propaganda but I think she was sharing with us a different take on humanity. She shares with us a side to these individuals that we could not possibly think are human. It's not promoting crimes without punishment but to maybe take a step back to see why someone commits such unspeakable crimes. The book spoke to me about a broken world that exists with real evil I don't think I've ever read a book with so many broken people. I think that some readers are going to say that the author is promoting propaganda but I think she was sharing with us a different take on humanity. She shares with us a side to these individuals that we could not possibly think are human. It's not promoting crimes without punishment but to maybe take a step back to see why someone commits such unspeakable crimes. The book spoke to me about a broken world that exists with real evil and real people struggling. You see into the lives of the lady, the priest, and the warden all struggling with their own brokenness, hurts, scars and regrets. There's alot going on in this book and the author writes in a way you don't want to stop reading regardless of how difficult the scenarios are. I hope this isn't the last fictional book this author attempts bc she is truly a gifted fictional writer. ...more I have had a hard time deciding on a rating for this one. The tone was hypnotizing, but the subject matter was very difficult, and the atmosphere was so terribly dark, cold, and dreary, it was like being in the stone walls of those prison cells myself. I think the hardest part was realizing that while this is fiction, there was a stark reality to it. The story shed a bleak light on the lives of death row inmates, but more importantly on their backgrounds and what placed them there. For all its b I have had a hard time deciding on a rating for this one. The tone was hypnotizing, but the subject matter was very difficult, and the atmosphere was so terribly dark, cold, and dreary, it was like being in the stone walls of those prison cells myself. I think the hardest part was realizing that while this is fiction, there was a stark reality to it. The story shed a bleak light on the lives of death row inmates, but more importantly on their backgrounds and what placed them there. For all its bleakness though, it held my attention and I had a greater appreciation of the story after learning the author herself is an investigator of death penalty cases, as depicted in the role of The Lady in the story. I can\u2019t say I enjoyed reading this story but I don\u2019t think I will ever forget it. ...more I can't finish this book. Having lost a loved one , a victim of a robbery , it's too difficult for me to sympathize with these prisoners, no matter how beautiful the language or the message . I should have trusted my intuition that this was not going to be for me.<---C>Rene Denfeld</---C>", "Title": "The Enchanted"},
