{"Comments": "<+++>Always in My Heart</+++>Completed this book today must say such a beautiful story of giving love a second chance,a try to re-build the family that is broken after a tragedy followed by divorce Tucker and <---C>Ellie Grant</---C> divorced after the death of their oldest son, whom each felt guilt and blame over the tragic accident that killed him. 3 years later,<---M> the two remaining sons</---M>, run away into the mountains refusing to come back until their parents get back together, forcing Tucker and Ellie to spend time together tracking the Completed this book today must say such a beautiful story of giving love a second chance,a try to re-build the family that is broken after a tragedy followed by divorce Tucker and Ellie Grant divorced after the death of their oldest son, whom each felt guilt and blame over the tragic accident that killed him. 3 years later, the two remaining sons, run away into the mountains refusing to come back until their parents get back together, forcing Tucker and Ellie to spend time together tracking the boys to the place where they used to camp as a family. All along the way, they fight their old feelings, and discover some unknown truths about each other and thier family.....This story has some highly emotional moments which is the strength of the book. Absolutely LOVED Tucker-Ellie's love how they fall in love get married n how the accident that killed their first born son Sammy shatters them,the anger,accusations,,guity,bitterness ,divorce Loved Zach-Kody their twin sons that make their parents realise how they are miserable n what they feel n their plans to make their parents fall in love again finally how they are successful This is an excellent book with very well developed characters.<---F> Absolutely recommend it </---F>...more After starting this book, I was almost positive that I wouldn't like it. The heroine, Ellie, seemed like a bitter ex-wife who was trying to play at being a martyr-mom. Everything she did was for her kids. She lived and breathed solely to be there for them and never thought of herself. Her whole life was for them and she was critical of her ex for not being as dedicated as she was. She apparently hadn't even been able to shave in two weeks because the time she'd waste on that was precious time sh After starting this book, I was almost positive that I wouldn't like it. The heroine, Ellie, seemed like a bitter ex-wife who was trying to play at being a martyr-mom. Everything she did was for her kids. She lived and breathed solely to be there for them and never thought of herself. Her whole life was for them and she was critical of her ex for not being as dedicated as she was. She apparently hadn't even been able to shave in two weeks because the time she'd waste on that was precious time she could have been spending on her kids. *excuse me while I take a moment to gag* Right then and there, it's a good bet that I'm already on the ex's side. I just met her and even I couldn't stand her! But I soon saw that the author set her up like that very deliberately. This was a woman who had suffered in life and who was overcompensating for something quite tragic. She and her ex, Tucker, split up after the loss of one of their sons, and they both reacted to it in very different ways. Their changes in behavior were sad indications of the loss they had suffered and the emotional upheaval that it caused. Not only did they lose a son, they lost each other. Their attitudes didn't always make them likable (<---B>mostly Ellie</---B>), but it did make their slow change feel more authentic for being so hard won. Ellie and Tucker have both disliked each other since their divorce. They blame each other for certain things and they both suffer from feelings of guilt and inadequacy that they can't seem to deal with, beyond turning it into anger at each other. They've been divorced for three years and have avoided speaking to each other entirely for the last year. Their kids have become very unhappy and they can feel that the point of no return is coming. They decide to take drastic measures and run away. Ellie and Tucker, along with their current love interests, mount a search for the kids, but at first they can't seem to do anything but fight and play the blame game. This made their relationship feel more real, but it's constant nature occasionally made me grit my teeth. Their journey to find their kids finally forced them into each other's company long enough to admit that they're not over each other. They finally had to deal with all the messed up emotions they've been hiding inside. It was a painful process, but it unfolded well. One of the things that always makes me nervous about second-chance-romances is fearing that the author will take the characters too far. I love that trope, but I want to be able to feel good about them getting together. I need to believe that they can recover from the wrongs they have dealt each other. That means walking a fine line when writing their reasons for breaking up and the way they've treated each other since. I'm happy to say that Anderson nailed this. The reader could sympathize with both of them over their reasons for breaking up, but it was also apparent that they really belonged together. They needed time and distance to get over some genuinely heartbreaking things, but in the end the only one that made them truly happy was each other. The book focuses around the search for their missing children and takes place over a relatively short period of time. The pacing was well done and I never felt like things were going too quickly to be believable. The only thing that bothered me, other than a few irritants now and again, was the fact that the kids ran away and put their parents through that and never really had any internalization of how wrong they were to behave that way. It's like the fact that Ellie and Tucker got back together cancelled out the punishment that I think they deserved. I think their complaints were completely valid, but that was a crappy thing of them to do. ...more This book reminds me of one of those unrealistically perfect Hallmark movies with a tiny bit of Lifetime thrown in there. Giant tragedy strikes a family and tears husband and wife apart, but after a few days in the wilderness they're back in each other's arms and it was like the divorce never happened. Kids pull a stunt that nearly gets one of them killed near the end, their wacky plan works and they don't even get a slap on the wrist. Love interests that mainly serve as plot devices to drive th This book reminds me of one of those unrealistically perfect Hallmark movies with a tiny bit of Lifetime thrown in there. Giant tragedy strikes a family and tears husband and wife apart, but after a few days in the wilderness they're back in each other's arms and it was like the divorce never happened. Kids pull a stunt that nearly gets one of them killed near the end, their wacky plan works and they don't even get a slap on the wrist. Love interests that mainly serve as plot devices to drive the point home that the couple was so meant to be, and an epilogue so sappy and cheesy it'd make maple syrup taste bitter. But I liked it. God help me, I actually liked this one. If there was ever a book to read for the sheer guilty pleasure of it, this is it. The characters aren't terribly written, but they're not especially gripping either. The plot is just one big brochure for the Great Outdoors with some Wilderness Survival Guide tossed in there. The female love interest being Obviously a Bad Person made me bristle, and the male love interest poking the heroine in the chest being treated like ultraviolence was just laughable. The backstory of Ellie and Tucker's divorce following the death of their oldest son skirted a line between genuine tearjerker and maudlin melodrama. And I quite disliked the implication that \"normal\" kids don't ever write in notebooks. I get that it was trying to say \"Kody's depressed, so he doesn't do things he used to like and spends his time mindlessly watching TV and internalizing his feelings in a notebook\", but it could've been dealt with MUCH better. As a woman who's been writing in notebooks since she was eight years old, I took offense to that. :P But I just kept reading, and when the perfect happy ending came I was satisfied. If \"Sweet Nothings\" and \"Sun Kissed\" brought out the cynical complainer in me, this one brought out the sap who craves happy endings. This one also stands out from Catherine's usual fare by having the couple already having been together. Their main obstacle is working through the bad feelings and trying to re-ignite the spark. Tucker isn't as much of a cowboy as Catherine's other heroes, and Ellie isn't the standard \"her private hell: the insert name here story\" as Catherine's other heroines. There's no Villain Ex Machina or gratuitous rescue scenes to eyeroll at. But aside from that you can tell it's an Anderson book, from the settings to the dialogue. It's far from perfect. It's unrealistic as hell. But I'll gladly curl up with it on a rainy day and get lost in the cheesiness. ...more Are you sure the main characters are in their 30s because in that case I am probably in my 50s. I have no idea how those kids came up with a plan like that... I feel stupid. And.. wow.... how good could their relationship be if they faced so many communication problems? I do not understand. I am confused. I loved this book. I got so attached to the characters. I hurt, cried, laughed and loved right along with them. I loved this book so much I'm going to start reading more of <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A>'s books. What a wonderful read, I couldn't put it down. Having children myself made this book even more enjoyable. I love this book! I just did a re-read of it, an realized i was still in love with it. Oh and a big Hooorah! for the author that did not make the hero go around the block after his divorce. The premises that this couple oly had each other in their beds all their lives made me smile a sappy smile because it never happens in cont romances. Good for you to think out of the box,Mrs.Author. :) A heart-wrencher, this book had me crying and laughing and pulling wholeheartedly for all the characters in this family of four. If you enjoy backpacking as I do, that was an added plus. an emotional story Not very well written, but a good filler book between \"more serious\" books. Two years ago, Ellie Grant would have fallen apart at any reminder of her ex-husband, Tucker. But now she doesn't bat an eye when \"their song\" comes on the radio. She's unfazed by the thought of Tucker's perky new girlfriend. Ellie Grant is over him. And things are better for Tucker as well. The single life agrees with him. And certainly they've both done a good job of being civil to each other, for their sons' sake. But the kids aren't buying it. Zach and Kody are convinced that, deep down, thei Two years ago, Ellie Grant would have fallen apart at any reminder of her ex-husband, Tucker. But now she doesn't bat an eye when \"their song\" comes on the radio. She's unfazed by the thought of Tucker's perky new girlfriend. Ellie Grant is over him. And things are better for Tucker as well. The single life agrees with him. And certainly they've both done a good job of being civil to each other, for their sons' sake. But the kids aren't buying it. Zach and Kody are convinced that, deep down, their parents are still meant to be together. Up to their elbows in scheming and dreaming, the brothers hatch a plan: They'll run away from home into the Oregon wilderness and stay there until their parents agree to get back together. Surely Ellie and Tucker will come to the rescue--and to their senses. Let the games begin and the sparks fly... Tucker and Ellie have grown up together, they were high school sweethearts..then they married and had three children. However the death one of those children was too much for both of them so they ended divorced.. they are miserable apart but too much time has passed until their two remaining sons make a plan of running away to reunite the two parents.. what could go wrong? Everything! It was a sad emotionally gripping book, but I enjoyed each page ...more This is a wonderful book. The best of those I've read by this author. Elle and Tucker are each other's one and only. They were each other's first and remained deeply in love and committed until the accidental death of their oldest child. The story opens three years after the death. Tucker and Elle are divorced and their family fractured. Individually just beginning to come to terms with their grief, neither realize their two sons' lives are falling apart. The kids decide to get mom and dad back t This is a wonderful book. The best of those I've read by this author. Elle and Tucker are each other's one and only. They were each other's first and remained deeply in love and committed until the accidental death of their oldest child. The story opens three years after the death. Tucker and Elle are divorced and their family fractured. Individually just beginning to come to terms with their grief, neither realize their two sons' lives are falling apart. The kids decide to get mom and dad back together and fix the mess. They take off into the wilderness, hoping the forced proximity as the parents search for their kids will bring them back together. BTW, dad is a wilderness expert and he's taught the boys well. The first part of the book is rife with humor. I loved all the characters, most especially Tucker. A lot happens on the wilderness trek. Tucker and Elle open up for the first time. They share, understand, forgive, and start anew. Then they're confronted with two major crises. I found the whole story touching, the way Anderson deals with the emotional issues sensitive. It's a satisfying story. Statistically, it's pretty common for marriages to end in divorce after the death of a child. I felt Anderson dealt with it all realistically. ...more Ellie Grant and her ex-husband Tucker divorced 2 years ago when their oldest son was killed in an accident. Both felt guilty for his death but thought the other blamed them. Their two other sons, Zach and Kody are struggling with the loss of their brother, the divorce, and the move from Bend to Springfield, OR. Tucker, a wildlife biologist, is a back-to-nature guy and has taught the boys great wilderness survival skills. In an attempt to get their parents back together, the boys bike to the Baxt Ellie Grant and her ex-husband Tucker divorced 2 years ago when their oldest son was killed in an accident. Both felt guilty for his death but thought the other blamed them. Their two other sons, Zach and Kody are struggling with the loss of their brother, the divorce, and the move from Bend to Springfield, OR. Tucker, a wildlife biologist, is a back-to-nature guy and has taught the boys great wilderness survival skills. In an attempt to get their parents back together, the boys bike to the Baxter wilderness area and leave a note telling their parents they'll have to come find them and that they won't come back until they've reconciled. Tucker and Ellie both show up with their current dates in tow, but that doesn't last long once they start tracking the boys. Ellie and Tucker are united by their love of the boys and have to spend time together on the trail. Once they finally talk to each other, the love comes rushing back, but they still need to fin the boys who are leading them on a serious chase. Eventually everything works out. Unusual story. Well done. ...more I see what she was trying to do here, but there are so many contrived details going into this story that it avalanches from sweet to desperately sappy to \"Nicholas Sparks thinks this is overdone\". Both Tucker and Ellie are dating people completely and utterly wrong for them, (this is classic CA, you don't just date and/or marry someone who's not your type, you date someone who is horrible in every way just so your True Love will look even better when they show up), and the passive-aggressive sni I see what she was trying to do here, but there are so many contrived details going into this story that it avalanches from sweet to desperately sappy to \"Nicholas Sparks thinks this is overdone\". Both Tucker and Ellie are dating people completely and utterly wrong for them, (this is classic CA, you don't just date and/or marry someone who's not your type, you date someone who is horrible in every way just so your True Love will look even better when they show up), and the passive-aggressive sniping doesn't make anyone look good. The two little boys are freaking adorable, and we're forced to view them as such even when they're running away into the woods to try and reconcile their parents and incidentally scaring the crap out of said parents. The deceased child is painted as perfect, bordering on too-good-for-this-sinful-earth. And I'm sorry, but the presence of a convenient hot spring right when Tucker and Ellie are admitting that they still care for each other? ...more I did like this book, but it took me forever to read. It was almost the end of the book before I got \"hooked\". The writing was good enough to keep me going, and the story itself was pretty good I just couldn't get into the groove with this one. I can't even imagine being in Ellie's position. How she managed to keep going, given everything that she's been through was a feat in itself. Then to have to deal with her kid's hair brained plan... There would be two sorry kids if that was me. At the beg I did like this book, but it took me forever to read. It was almost the end of the book before I got \"hooked\". The writing was good enough to keep me going, and the story itself was pretty good I just couldn't get into the groove with this one. I can't even imagine being in Ellie's position. How she managed to keep going, given everything that she's been through was a feat in itself. Then to have to deal with her kid's hair brained plan... There would be two sorry kids if that was me. At the beginning of the book I was thinking, well they're just acting out, but by the end of the book all I could think was these kids need to be flogged! But the love story between Ellie and Tucker was enough to keep me reading. There was one point when I was kind of scared for them. I wasn't really expecting there to be a sense of fear in the story. There were so many emotions worked into it. I think the mix of emotions was what really kept me reading. ...more I really loved this book and was kind of suprised that I actually enjoyed it. When I first read the book summaries, I thought that this would be a very boring story with a jealous and resentful ex-wife still \"holding a torch\" for her ex-husband and not wanting him to move on with his life. Plus, with the coincidence of confused kids trying to patch up a broken marrige, I thought this story would totally fail to intrest me. But, it totally exceeded my expectations and it was so moving and touching I really loved this book and was kind of suprised that I actually enjoyed it. When I first read the book summaries, I thought that this would be a very boring story with a jealous and resentful ex-wife still \"holding a torch\" for her ex-husband and not wanting him to move on with his life. Plus, with the coincidence of confused kids trying to patch up a broken marrige, I thought this story would totally fail to intrest me. But, it totally exceeded my expectations and it was so moving and touching. Ellie Grant and Tucker got a divorce years ago each not knowing the whole story behind the death of their son Sammy, each lugging around too much pain and confusion in their hearts. But as they struggle to find their sons who are determined to help them fix their relationship, the true story and events come to light releaving them both of the years of pain and secrets. They truly learn the many meanings of family and find their very own happily ever after. ...more I liked this book because it is about 2 people that have already fallen in love, gotten married, and then lost the love and romance. So, right from the get-go it is not your typical romance characters. No one is filthy rich, or of royal blood, although the man does still have a nice body. I could deal with that though. By running away from home and hiding in the wilderness, their kids hope to give them plenty of time to spend with each other and fall in love again. Very real sounding characters I liked this book because it is about 2 people that have already fallen in love, gotten married, and then lost the love and romance. So, right from the get-go it is not your typical romance characters. No one is filthy rich, or of royal blood, although the man does still have a nice body. I could deal with that though. By running away from home and hiding in the wilderness, their kids hope to give them plenty of time to spend with each other and fall in love again. Very real sounding characters and lots of banter that could really happen between couples that have known each other for years and know where to hit where it hurts. This is my second book by this author. Catherine Anderson really has a way with her characters. They are funny, poignant, clever, and real people. This book has some sexual content though so I couldn't anyone to read it without knowing that is in there. ...more Tucker and Ellie Grant were devastated when their oldest son was killed in an accident. Their grief eventually led to their divorce. Now three years later, Ellie has a new job and a new house, Tucker has a new girlfriend, and they are getting on with their lives. But the kids aren't buying it. Zach and Kody know that their parents still love each other, so they come up with a plan to get them back together. They'll run away into the Oregon Wilderness and stay there until their parents agree to g Tucker and Ellie Grant were devastated when their oldest son was killed in an accident. Their grief eventually led to their divorce. Now three years later, Ellie has a new job and a new house, Tucker has a new girlfriend, and they are getting on with their lives. But the kids aren't buying it. Zach and Kody know that their parents still love each other, so they come up with a plan to get them back together. They'll run away into the Oregon Wilderness and stay there until their parents agree to get back together. This was a great story. It kind of had a \"Parent Trap\" feel to it since both ex's bring their significant others with them to help search in the wilderness for the boys. This is an emotional story and also an adventure. I highly recommend this book. My rating: 5 Stars. ...more just started this, wish i had more time to read it , i would do it in one sitting. this one is a divorced couple with 2 sons, the third son died in a motorcycle accident for which they both blame each other and themselves, teh marriage fell apart after his death. neither one has gotten another serious relationship. the boys decided to run away to the wilderness so teh parents would have to get together to go look for them. the father is a tracker so hopefully he will find them before too late the just started this, wish i had more time to read it , i would do it in one sitting. this one is a divorced couple with 2 sons, the third son died in a motorcycle accident for which they both blame each other and themselves, teh marriage fell apart after his death. neither one has gotten another serious relationship. the boys decided to run away to the wilderness so teh parents would have to get together to go look for them. the father is a tracker so hopefully he will find them before too late they mixed in some girl interested in the man and some lame man interested in teh woman, but hopefully they will get back together and get married again found the boys, one had broken his arm, they did end up back together. it was good ...more A story of romance rekindled. Tucker and Ellie, though very much in love, fell to pieces at the death of their eldest son and ended up a getting a divorce. Their two remaining sons run away into the wilderness in a desperate attempt to get their parents back together again. The story took us through grief, loss, heartbreak, joy, and reconciliation. Though dramatized, the core of the family's problems were very believable. and it was easy to see how each person's grief blinded them to the trouble A story of romance rekindled. Tucker and Ellie, though very much in love, fell to pieces at the death of their eldest son and ended up a getting a divorce. Their two remaining sons run away into the wilderness in a desperate attempt to get their parents back together again. The story took us through grief, loss, heartbreak, joy, and reconciliation. Though dramatized, the core of the family's problems were very believable. and it was easy to see how each person's grief blinded them to the troubles of the other three. My only complaint, and it is a minor nit really, is that the new girlfriend and new boyfriend they each had at the beginning were a little unbelievable. Recommend to romance readers. ...more This story was truly great! I loved it. Until.........it neared the end. Ellie and Tucker are stranded in the wilderness because their two boy's are making them see what they mean to each other. After a few days....it's understandable but as the day's wore on and on and on, I got really bored with it. If your a parent and your kid's are hiding from you to teach you a lesson. After so long it's time to make them stop, go home and talk it out. But they keep going and going. I didn't like that part. This story was truly great! I loved it. Until.........it neared the end. Ellie and Tucker are stranded in the wilderness because their two boy's are making them see what they mean to each other. After a few days....it's understandable but as the day's wore on and on and on, I got really bored with it. If your a parent and your kid's are hiding from you to teach you a lesson. After so long it's time to make them stop, go home and talk it out. But they keep going and going. I didn't like that part. It got boring really fast. But by the end I was in tears. It was a great book over all. ...more Good read, anyone having experienced the loss of child and what that can do to marriage can definitely feel for this couple. The twist is this feels like the parent trap where the kids left behind decide to fix their parents broken marriage. Why this isn't a 4 star is ... it went on too long, 420 pages was really pushing the limit here. It was about 75 pages to long. But that's my only problem with it as long as you love the whole parent trap theme. Two young boys run away to try and get mom and dad back together again. When I think of my children trying a stunt like that it terrifies me. The first thing I would have done is call the police. The stress and worry of looking for the missing boys works wonders on mom and dad's relationship though. I'm torn on this one. In a way I liked the emotion and premise but I got sick of reading about outdoorsy stuff because it doesn't interest me. Once the couple got back together I just skimmed to the end because I wasn't really interested in them finding the kids after they've spent like a week in utter misery following two pre-teens through the woods. I'm not sure why it was just OK but it was. How about 1) You knew how the plot would work after about 50 pages -- no great twists or turns 2) You sort of cared about the characters 3) Seems to me most people I know who divorce are not still in love with their ex 4) Too much outdoorsy live off the land kind of knowledge dumped into the plot. Sweet story on how a family deals with their grief after the death of a child. I felt that Ellie was developed more as a character than Tucker or it just could be that I really connected with her. I just really enjoyed the story and would've given it a 4 but the secondary characters were predictable and a total nuisance and the accidents toward the end were very predictable! One of my favorites! Real life at it most gripping with well developed characters and believability. passionate storyline moments building into the story s end. Wish everyone could read this amazing book. Their marriage breaks up after Sammy dies, each thinking they're to blame for the accident. Now their two other sonts are trying to get them back together, by running away to their old special camping spot in the wilderness There were times when I really enjoyed this book, and times when the H/H just didn't click for me. Overall I would put it in the \"I liked it\" category. The ending was just a little too perfect for me. I like when everything wraps up nicely, but this one had a few too many perfect bows on it. Really heartwarming story. At first I didn't like Tucker at all but now I love him. The two little boys had me in tears reading their little notes they left in the woods for their parents. A very good read :) This was a fun book to read. The boys were creative, if reckless, in their plot to bring their parents together. Their exposure of the \"other women\" and \"other man\" was entertaining and the results of their effort were entertaining and satisfying.<+++>Always in My Heart</+++>", "Title": "Always in My Heart"},
