{"Comments": "I thought I was done with this simulacrum bulls**t.<---F> Really, I did</---F>. One of the reasons why Charlie Kaufman's Synecdoche, NY failed to impress me as a mind-blowing masterpiece was its (<---B>to my mind</---B>) lazy employment of this most common of postmodernist tropes, this tired hand-me-down from Dick and Ba(udri)llard and The Matrix and eXistenZ and etcetera whatever nevermind. I wished for a moratorium on films and books incorporating the idea that WHAT IF REALITY IS JUST, LIKE,<---M> AN ILLUSION</---M>, MAN, and all i I thought I was done with this simulacrum bulls**t. Really, I did. One of the reasons why Charlie Kaufman's Synecdoche, NY failed to impress me as a mind-blowing masterpiece was its (to my mind) lazy employment of this most common of postmodernist tropes, this tired hand-me-down from Dick and Ba(udri)llard and The Matrix and eXistenZ and etcetera whatever nevermind. I wished for a moratorium on films and books incorporating the idea that WHAT IF REALITY IS JUST, LIKE, AN ILLUSION, MAN, and all its labyrinthine variants. I also was pretty sure I could do without a big New York Novel for a while, since I don't live in New York and really, if you don't live in New York why should you give a s**it about those books--the ones that seem to be yelling, \"My city's dick is bigger than your city's dick!\" And then lil' Jonny Lethem, the author who consistently wins the award for Literary Hotshot I Would Most Like To Hang Out With, Given Our Similar Tastes, And The Fact That He's So F**king Cool, goes ahead and writes a mammothly bizarre book that is both a New York Novel and, partially and importantly, an entry in what I think we can go ahead and deem officially the Genre of Simulacrum Fiction. (I should note that I am absolutely NOT an expert in this genre. I've simply observed that it exists, and believe that it's maybe a little overused at this point. Although, that's probably stupid, because if it's a genre then it's by definition going to be cockroach-durable, riffed on by generation after generation, and if that's the case then I'll just have to learn to like it , dammit, or else just bask in the comfort that Lethem did it differently, somehow, once, with this very book, which I happen to think is f**cking awesome, hence the five stars above.) Where was I? Sorry, I think that pesky reality shifted again while I was immersed in parentheses. (Or should I say immersed in ellipses ? You'll get that if you've read <+++>Chronic City</+++> by <---A>Jonathan Lethem</---A>!) Anyway. No one knows what to make of <+++>Chronic City</+++> . I sure as hell don't. I mean, I know that it's ambitious, and that its prose is almost painfully gorgeous, and I can identify many of its theeeeemes, which Lethem brandishes like weapons that he's maybe just threatening to use, and it's hard to know if he's actually followed through until you look down and see the blood from where he knifed you, or didn't. But the cool thing--one of the many cool things--about this book is how Lethem seems to deflect, or anticipate, or just render irrelevant the expectations associated with his chosen modes of storytelling. If this is a New York Novel then it's also kind of an ANTI- New York Novel (in the way that McCabe & Mrs. Miller is an anti-Western), or at least a self-aware one. Like, the characters never venture outside Manhattan, and Lethem has them float theories about how they're not sure the world outside Manhattan really exists, or exists as they know it--literalizing the old remark about how New Yorkers think their town is the whole universe and whatnot. And the simulacrum stuff is handled in an almost cavalier fashion--Lethem doesn't seem, like other practitioners of the genre, so damn proud of himself for coming up with such crazy ideas. They just kind of turn out to be important without much fuss. And Lethem never cheats on his characters with his ideas , if that makes sense--he's faithful to Chase and Perkus to the end, and the home stretch of the book is emotionally rewarding in a way I never would have predicted. But this book isn't just about New York and the simulacra thereof--it's also about what might be Lethem's great theme, the subject he was put on Earth to explore: the nature of our obsessive personal relationships with art and culture. Perkus Tooth may be insane, but here's the thing: you have to identify with him in order to get anything out of this book. This book is for the Perkus Tooths of the world, and yes, goddammit, I'm one of them--hopefully a little more well-adjusted, not so much into the conspiracy theories, but absolutely approaching my life as a curator of cultural objects. We Perkus Tooths use culture as our primary means of understanding both our lives and the world surrounding us. It's not always something to be proud of, but it's a condition that Lethem gives beautiful voice to--especially in his 2005 essay collection The Disappointment Artist , a must-read for all you Perkus Tooths out there. In Chronic City , this cultural obsession gives way to madness, but the twist is that the madness turns out to have been not so mad after all--in fact, less mad than reality, or \"reality,\" which brings me back to where I started. Perkus's vindication is a vindication for all of us who have trained ourselves to study the aspect ratios of films, who spot the germs of influence in our favorite neglected bands, who mentally repeat favorite sentences from novels while in line at the bank, and who mediate these obsessions on the greatest simulacrum of them all: the Internet. I haven't yet read enough Lethem to declare this his \"masterpiece\" or whatever (strange how people have taken to associate that term with singularity, as if an artist is only allotted one masterpiece per lifetime), and on a conventional narrative level it is maybe less satisfying than (the first two thirds of) The Fortress of Solitude . But Lethem is working in a different register here, so comparisons to that novel are unfair (cough, Kakutani), and what he's doing strikes me as unique and hilarious and totally brilliant, a cultural object worthy of Perkus himself, ready to be studied by adoring cults for clues to the secrets of our selves and our realities. ...more Moments of 5-star writing here but I found myself unable to have the kind of deep, caring engagement with the story arcs and characters that such a rating generally requires. That said, the book was fully entertaining all the way through. Jam-packed with humorous and thoughtful riffs and meta-riffs on pop culture, avant garde art, stoned philosophizing--all pulled through the looking glass of Lethem's penchant for Noirish Mystery and geekish cataloging. Clever but not too-clever. The most enjoya Moments of 5-star writing here but I found myself unable to have the kind of deep, caring engagement with the story arcs and characters that such a rating generally requires. That said, the book was fully entertaining all the way through. Jam-packed with humorous and thoughtful riffs and meta-riffs on pop culture, avant garde art, stoned philosophizing--all pulled through the looking glass of Lethem's penchant for Noirish Mystery and geekish cataloging. Clever but not too-clever. The most enjoyable aspect for me was on the surface level of the writing itself and the way little curios were laid about and then connected and/or disconnected to and from one another after the fact. Lethem's clearly a seasoned writer by this point and it shows in the texture and shape and the variations of his word choices and the phraseology of his descriptive motifs and every page held multiple sightings of such delicious penmenship. I didn't find this to be quite the 'mindfuck' book some describe it as. I think some of the more wacky elements are used brilliantly as red herrings in service of the idea that truth is pretty slippery and elusive and human beings are generally self-centered and lashed to overactive imaginations--not so much floated out there to truly blow your mind, man. ...more In which Lethem tackles paranoia and conspiracy theory, in other words, DeLillo and Pynchon territory. There\u2019s a wonderful book struggling to get out of this rambling oblique farce of a novel. The full blooded obsessive vigilance of conspiracy theorists would make a great subject for a modern novel \u2013 the watchdogs who watch the watchdogs, an informed elite calling to account a sinister informed elite at the other end of the political spectrum. I watched a video yesterday where a guy examined fram In which Lethem tackles paranoia and conspiracy theory, in other words, DeLillo and Pynchon territory. There\u2019s a wonderful book struggling to get out of this rambling oblique farce of a novel. The full blooded obsessive vigilance of conspiracy theorists would make a great subject for a modern novel \u2013 the watchdogs who watch the watchdogs, an informed elite calling to account a sinister informed elite at the other end of the political spectrum. I watched a video yesterday where a guy examined frame by frame that famous shot of the woman hanging outside the window of the Bataclan. He was looking for evidence that the Paris shootings were another false flag event whose sinister purpose is to scare populaces into eventually accepting police states and fascist politics. In the broader spectrum of things his reasoning came across as absurd but isolated within the footage itself there was something suspiciously stagecrafted about what we see. You understood then that what we believe depends entirely sometimes on the base of some deeper emotional need. Fascinating though was the sense that the guy espousing his theory believed he was right at the heart of history, a major player in the shaping of the future. A man who has found his raison d\u2019etre. I couldn\u2019t help seeing there the ideal character for Lethem\u2019s novel. Unfortunately in Lethem\u2019s world the conspiracy theorist, Perkus Tooth, isn\u2019t intriguing or located at the cutting edge of monumental world events. His intellectual suspicions, fuelled by dope (Lethem\u2019s take on conspiracy theorists is too often founded on lazy clich\u00e9s) are mostly irrelevantly absurd \u2013 whether or not Brando is really dead for example. So there\u2019s quickly a sense Lethem is making fun of conspiracy theories which seemed to me a cheap and easy way to dismiss a compelling phenomenon of our times (DeLillo and Pynchon are both far more subtle and thought-provoking and many layered in their examinations of this subject). After all, do we really believe without some misgivings the official versions of the Luther-King and Kennedy assassinations? Or, to take it several steps further, do we believe it was the Jews or communists who burnt down the Reichstag? The politics of power is a dirty dog-eat-dog business. There\u2019s bound to be sinister undertakings involved. But Lethem is going to ignore the sinister for slapstick. He\u2019s found an easy target for mockery and he\u2019s damned if he\u2019s not going to take full advantage of it. Another cop-out is the novel is set in some kind of alternate universe where Lethem can further indulge his self-indulgence for the absurdly implausible. And this was the problem for me. This is a novel of brilliant surfaces but little depth. There was a much more daring and ambitious novel hived in his material but he rejected it for a madcap convoluted haul through event after event of inconsequential absurdity. If you\u2019ve never read Lethem before I\u2019d recommend Motherless Brooklyn where his stylistic brilliance doesn\u2019t, like in Chronic City, overcompensate for his lack of intellectual daring or vigour. He\u2019s a very good writer but this novel convinced me he\u2019ll never be quite in the same class as DeLillo or Pynchon. ...more I was enthralled with this strange tour of the dope-inspired concerns of a contemporary group of Manhattanites. They form a circle of friends around a visionary former rock critic named Perkus Tooth. The portrait rendered of New York as a \u201cpocket universe\u201d for these characters seems like a pleasant cross between the disturbing delusions in novels by Philip K. Dick and the fun self-fulfilling quests in Vonnegut tales. From hybrid vigor, the offspring is satirical but not vicious, solipsistic but I was enthralled with this strange tour of the dope-inspired concerns of a contemporary group of Manhattanites. They form a circle of friends around a visionary former rock critic named Perkus Tooth. The portrait rendered of New York as a \u201cpocket universe\u201d for these characters seems like a pleasant cross between the disturbing delusions in novels by Philip K. Dick and the fun self-fulfilling quests in Vonnegut tales. From hybrid vigor, the offspring is satirical but not vicious, solipsistic but not smug, playful not comic. Also, the prose is marvelous, the characters warm and human, and the read is easy. The key characters are all effectively \u201cresidual people\u201d, each riding a peripheral role depending on past successes or cultural trends set by others. For example, Perkus now resorts to writing liner notes for new albums. The narrator, Chase Insteadman (once misidentified as \u201cUnperson\u201d), is a former child star of a sit-com living off of residuals. His semi-celebrity status is enhanced from being treated by the media as the faithful, suffering fianc\u00e9 of a woman astronaut Chase barely remembers now, trapped for months in the International Space Station by Chinese sabotage. A former prot\u00e9g\u00e9 of Tooth, Oona Lazlo, is a ghostwriter who creates memories for celebrities who have trouble recounting them. Richard Abneg, a former radical tenant\u2019s rights advocate, now works for the billionaire mayor as a fix-it man such as the smoothing over tenant evictions in redevelopment projects. Although they could be considered social parasites, they treat the reality that filters into their cave as a cosmic puzzle for which they have the responsibility to resolve its hidden meanings, linkages, and possible conspiracies. Because the novel has a focus on this derivative mode of living, not much happens in terms of conventional plot. Aside from a couple of love affairs carried on by Chase and Richard, much of the action lies in the bull sessions with Tooth in his cramped apartment or neighborhood hamburger shop. Tooth mesmerized me, a vibrant creation seared into my mind along with the unforgettable fictional Neal Cassidy in Kerouac\u2019s \u201cOn the Road\u201d. Here is a great example of how his riffs flow like jazz improvisations on a theme\u201d Between starved attacks on his bagel, gobbets of pureed fish and mayonnaise dripping from between his fingers, Perkus named Brando as the living avatar of the unexpressed, a human enunciation of the remaining hopes of our murdered era. \u2026 \u201cwhat I have in mind is when he sent Sacheen Littlefeather to accept the Oscar in his place. \u2026In one gesture Brando ties our rape of the Indians to this figure of our immigrant nightmare, this Sicilian peasant doing the American dream, capitalism I mean, more ruthlessly than the founding fathers could ever have dreaded. We\u2019re as defenseless against what Don Corleone exposes, the murderous underside of Manifest Destiny, as the Indians were against smallpox blankets. And in the vanishing space between the two, what? America itself, whatever that is. Brando, essentially, declining to appear . Because the party\u2019s over. \u2026By refusing to show up Brando took on the most magnificent aspect, it\u2019s as if Toto sweeps the curtain aside and the great and powerful Oz has absconded, leaving you to contemplate the fact that behind the illusion there\u2019s nothing . The Oz of American history, for all its monstrousness, is all we\u2019ve got.\u2026\u201d The kind of conspiracies Tooth trucks with are typified by his belief that Brando\u2019s death was faked. That the font choice and framing of the stories in the New Yorker are responsible for tricking the reader into seeing himself in the stories. That his obsession with acquiring a new form of exquisite ceramic vases called chaldrons through eBay is being foiled by secret powers-that-be that are hoarding them for a mysterious purpose. The largest plot on his mind is that maybe reality is a simulation for which we might as well go along with (which as actually based on a real academic physicist\u2019s theory of the multiverse). He comes to suspect that the mysterious periodic destructions of parts of the city that are attributed to a giant escaped tiger represent some kind of cover-up of something else by the mayor, possibly some sort of slippage in the simulation. Some of Tooth\u2019s off-the-wall speculations seem pushed in jest (though he has trouble reading a massive book called \u201cObstinate Dust\u201d, which reviewers identify as a stand-in for Wallace\u2019s \u201cInfinite Jest\u201d). At least his friends sometimes take them that way, as illustrated here in this send-up of Manhattan residents\u2019 sense of living in an island universe: \u201cCops live in New Jersey, don\u2019t they, Richard?\u201d \u201cJersey, sure, or Staten Island or Hicksville or White Plains, whatever.\u201d \u201cThey laugh because they know.\u201d \u201cKnow what?\u201d said Richard warily, sensing the trap. \u201cWhat\u2019s outside the limit, maybe fallout-strewn wasteland or Chinese slave dictatorship, people in cages too small for dogs.\u201d \u2018In that case wouldn\u2019t it be more sensible to use robot policemen? said Richard. \u2026Robot policemen wouldn\u2019t track so much fallout back and forth from Staten Island don\u2019t you think? And they wouldn\u2019t require so many bribes, or toroid pastries.\u201d In a piece on his web site, Who Is Perkus Tooth, Anyway? , Lethem notes that he was derived from an amalgam from several real people, but \u201cwouldn\u2019t exist without the precedent of the character Rudolph Menthol, from Rufus Firefly\u2019s great novel Years Between Islands\u201d. His fondness for his character seems similar to that he holds for P.K. Dick, as explored in his essay Crazy Friend : For me, I like helpless braggarts, obsessive fools, angry people. My ears perk up at the word \u2018pretentious\u2019 \u2013 that\u2019s usually the movie I want to see, the book I want to read, the scene I want to make. Nearly anyone I\u2019ve found worth knowing was difficult enough, vivid enough, to qualify at some point as my crazy friend. The essay accounts for Lethem\u2019s pervasive influences from Dick. His first book, which I enjoyed a lot, Gun, With Occasional Music is described as \u201cDick-meets-Chandler\u201d. And his second book, Amnesia Moon , which I didn\u2019t love, was expanded from stories written in his early 20\u2019s that show a strong Dickian theme of \u201cinfiltration of reality by a single sinister and intoxicatingly malignant force\u201d. Lethem\u2019s most popular book, Motherless Brooklyn (a 5 star read for me), features mobster Frank Minna, who conforms to a Dickian feature of main characters who are \u201cpowerful but unsteady father-figures \u2026 men both bullying and charismatic, generous and treacherous.\u201d Tooth fits this profile too, and the play on the simulated world idea in \u201cChronic City\u201d is a clear Dickian influence. In an interview with h+ Magazine Chronic Citizen , Lethem notes that after his efforts at editing a Library of America collection of Dick\u2019s works, he \u201cwanted to, in some way, project a relationship to Dick\u2018s writing. I wanted to find a way to extend my own feelings about it into fictional space. For me, this is a book that\u2018s suffused in his influence.\u201d Despite all this homage to Dick, Lethem is rightly confident of bringing his own voice and special contributions to his work. His prose appeals to me like Irving and Chabon's. Like Vonnegut, he infuses a warmth and hopefulness in characters in the process of forging their reality. At the end of the interview, he admits to what could be labeled the Absurdism variant of an Existential outlook (i.e. that we may never know the true foundation of the reality we perceive, but we need to shape our own version of meaning and ride with it): What are the tolerances for the exposure of sustaining fictions in any given life? At some point, you\u2018re going to settle. You\u2018re going to make a snow globe and live inside it. ...more Shortly after a bout of sobriety and a return to Portland, from Las Vegas, I had the pleasure of seeing Jonathan Lethem give a reading in the building where I work. I've expressed opposition to public readings before, or at least a considerable amount of disdain toward an interest in the celebrity status of certain authors; admittedly a preoccupation or opinion derived from William Gaddis's thoughts on the subject. I was in total agreement with this man about how irrelevant it was to endlessly p Shortly after a bout of sobriety and a return to Portland, from Las Vegas, I had the pleasure of seeing Jonathan Lethem give a reading in the building where I work. I've expressed opposition to public readings before, or at least a considerable amount of disdain toward an interest in the celebrity status of certain authors; admittedly a preoccupation or opinion derived from William Gaddis's thoughts on the subject. I was in total agreement with this man about how irrelevant it was to endlessly probe for questions about the personal life of an author and the relation between this life and their work. Gaddis's stance on this also had much to do with the ability of the work of fiction itself being more than capable of answering any of the questions that a reader could possibly have about it, thus single-handedly, in a theoretical sense, eliminating the need for Q and A sessions, and lengthy explanations given in public. What I overlooked of course, was that these events are typically fun, especially if you're stoned. And they're revealing, revealing in a way that I was happy to discover, was actually possible. And especially if you're stoned and it's a book like Chronic City , and you find yourself in a constant state of wonder about whether or not the book is revelatory, or if it's just that you're stoned, and the story is about people who ostensibly smoke a lot of pot, and endlessly riff about pop culture, film, Manhattan, music, and cultural etc. And especially if you're a cinephile and the book is largely about film, and possibly even influenced by film, in a stylistic sense. Lethem strolled up to the podium like a literary version of Max Fischer from Wes Anderson's Rushmore ; astute looking, confident in a nerdy-almost-nebbish sort of way, attentive, and generally enthusiastic about explaining and narrating. He read the first chapter straight through. I was on the edge of my seat, mouth agape, completely immersed, at times of the feeling that someone was narrating a Preston Sturges film out loud to me. I loved it. I also loved Lethem's openness about influence, and his fondness of the cinema. After all, the two main characters of this particular story meet at the home offices of the Criterion Collection, and after all Perkus Tooth's character is an extension of Lethem's avowed interest in film, the side that has been expressed to an almost hyper-articulate degree in his collection of essays entitled The Disappointment Artist . After he finished reading from his book, I felt inescapably compelled to ask my new, favorite, contemporary author a question about film and literature. This, after all, is a man, who to me, seems to be making a literary attempt to bridge the two artistic cultures. So I asked, following up on a previous question about the influence of film in Lethem's work (most of which, I'm admittedly unfamiliar with, but looking forward to reading through), \"It seems that contemporary novelists, such as Pynchon, Dellilo, Wallace, etc, are more open about writing about film in their fiction, and not only writing about it, but letting the medium of film influence the way that contemporary fiction is narrated and told, this in mind, do you feel as though you're part of this community of these types of authors/cinephiles/(theorists almost)?\" And he replied, \"well, community is a funny word to use when you're talking about someone like Thomas Pynchon, but yes, I do find film to be a very important influence in my work, however, I would go even further back and cite Graham Greene and Vladimir Nabokov as heavier influences in the sense of novelists who openly write about, and are influenced by film, thank you.\" What I really wanted to say after that was that I was stoned, and that in retrospect, yes, \"community\" was a poor word choice. Of course, there were other questions I had. But this was what I was most curious about, being somewhat new to Lethem's work. This is actually all relevant. Chronic City is after all, a book about people who live through and in circles of entertainment. And Chase Insteadman's character grows through his understanding of an art that he had only previously been a tool of. Perkus reveals this to him, in high-grade government marijuana induced rants about film in a diner down the street from his house, or in his apartment, one filled with the detritus of all of the obscure, fragmented culture that he so adores. Lethem's characters attempt to connect their relationship with art to their more \"real\" surroundings; i.e. Manhattan. The books' plotlessness may strike some as being devoid of intention or direction, but in the end it flows like one of Tooth's rants, written by an enthusiast of culture who wants to share this wonderful condition, to make it human, to make us all feel a little less shallow for just being voyeurs. ...more Long live Perkus Tooth! He must live, he is our Don Quixote, our post-9/11 innocent (even chaste) madman making of his own delusions (or, as I prefer, his own powers of imagination) a marvelously engaging and living world, the living world of this extremely entertaining novel. Tooth is at war with illusion, using his own illusions as weapons, and it\u2019s this clashing of culture\u2019s false illusions and Tooth\u2019s real illusions that creates life. There is nothing real, or rather the real exists at basic Long live Perkus Tooth! He must live, he is our Don Quixote, our post-9/11 innocent (even chaste) madman making of his own delusions (or, as I prefer, his own powers of imagination) a marvelously engaging and living world, the living world of this extremely entertaining novel. Tooth is at war with illusion, using his own illusions as weapons, and it\u2019s this clashing of culture\u2019s false illusions and Tooth\u2019s real illusions that creates life. There is nothing real, or rather the real exists at basic levels \u2013 exemplified by a dog\u2019s sniffing and shitting in the novel \u2013 but reality at the higher levels of the human intellect, and by extension human society, is crowded with nothing but illusions; and what this novel reveals is that there is something within engaged humans that creates human truth, and that this truth (besides sniffing and shitting) is the only truth we have. Chase Insteadman, the blank slate non-entity and narrator of this novel, learns what this something is through his progressively deepening involvement with Tooth. He learns that there is no objectified grail, i.e. some tangible Truth of revelation, and that Truth is not even contained within objectified human activities and pursuits, but, again, that it\u2019s through engagement (a deep inner process that manifests externally) that Truth is revealed, yet still it remains ever-elusive. It is up to each individual to discover the lineaments of their own engagement. Sound like a self-help book? Well, it's not, but there is a warm humanism evident, and an earnestness, but it's never treacly, remaining tacit, informing and enriching the novel from below. So these are the basic ideas of the book, but the problem is that as an idea-man Lethem isn\u2019t quite up to the task. I know of his love and admiration for Philip K. Dick, and this book does investigate some Dickian preoccupations, but he doesn\u2019t add anything to them, in fact he dilutes them to a Truman Show level; there is none of that patented and authentic Dickian metaphysical dread. But what Lethem does he does very well and on a much larger canvas (or at least in much greater detail) and with a verbal panache beyond PKD\u2019s wildest dreams. There is also a problem with Insteadman\u2019s being such a non-entity, in that for him to learn something is something of an anti-climax (and as an aside, his \u201cromance\u201d with his astro-fiance is a bit juvenile (though maybe that's intentional?)), so at a character level his \u201cre-birth\u201d falls just a bit flat, like what he learned he should've learned long ago, though still it made me feel good. But on a symbolic/allegorical level, with Insteadman representing post-9/11 Manhattan starting from scratch and going through a process of re-birth, there is potent resonance and significance. Some could accuse the book of being bloated with verbal pyrotechnics, and Lethem does get too enamored with his own voice and wit and humor at times, but it\u2019s only the narrative that\u2019s fatty, on the verbal level it\u2019s pure sinew, so if one keeps one\u2019s nose to the page and forgets being epi-critical for a moment, the reading experience is pure pleasure, and a wild ride. But this problem of book bloat comes to the fore when considering this as the possible masterpiece that Lethem seems to\u2019ve intended. As grand entertainment, there\u2019s no problem, but as a masterpiece to be read and reread with each rereading offering fresh unfoldments and insights there is. Part of the problem is that Lethem has a problem with letting things remain ambiguous and trusting that the readers get his allusions and meanings through storytelling alone. Too many times he offers expositions of what he means in order to tie little happenings to his larger themes. For instance \u2013 he talks of dogs creating maps of invisible worlds through their sniffing as they navigate Manhattan, but then he feels the need to make what he really means even clearer by paralleling these doggy olfactory worlds with the larger theme of virtual worlds on-line. This reminded me of that horrible plastic bag scene in American Beauty . It feels like a violation, like our minds have been rummaged and our private epiphanies made public. Instead of revealing the beauty, these tendencies actually steal them from us. Trust your readers! Trust your viewers! If they don\u2019t get what you\u2019re getting at then fuck \u2018em, the beauty and epiphanies are there, in potentia. Anyway, long live Perkus Tooth! ...more \u201cDon't rupture another's illusion unless you're positive the alternative you offer is more worthwhile than that from which you're wrenching them. Interrogate your solipsism: Does it offer any better a home than the delusions you're reaching to shatter?\u201d \u2015 Jonathan Lethem, Chronic City I really wanted to like Chronic City. I really wanted to enjoy Lethem's latest NY story. Sorry, no go. The problem is Letham falls straight into a void, a hole, existing between Michael Chabon and William Gibson. D \u201cDon't rupture another's illusion unless you're positive the alternative you offer is more worthwhile than that from which you're wrenching them. Interrogate your solipsism: Does it offer any better a home than the delusions you're reaching to shatter?\u201d \u2015 Jonathan Lethem, Chronic City I really wanted to like Chronic City. I really wanted to enjoy Lethem's latest NY story. Sorry, no go. The problem is Letham falls straight into a void, a hole, existing between Michael Chabon and William Gibson. Don't misinterpret. I'm not saying he falls between, or is sandwiched next to them. Nope, Lethem disappears. He doesn't measure up. The author seems to actually vanish. The whole Manhattan/MacGuffin/Chaldron quest story in theory seems like it a respectable idea for novel. It isn't hard to imagine a novel built around Manhattan's many MacGuffins (references to Mailer, DeLillo, Bellow, and other City writers, abound in this novel); an island-city filled with pretense, exaggeration, self-absorption, cultural significance, and artifice. The failure is Lethem builds this plaything city, this imaginary island, but when it comes down to it (in the end) all Letham does is reflect without escaping the worst cliches of Manhattan. And while he is sometimes clever, the writing here just isn't that good. For me, that is where the real frustration comes in. I want it to be better. I want it to say more. I want it to matter. It just isn't, doesn't and won't. Still, I'll give it three stars for no other reason than one character reminded me of a friend in college, plus it gave me an opportunity to try and actually sell a chaldron on eBay. That has to count for something. ...more I had to force myself to finish this one. I love Lethem's style and concepts, but this story lacked any real plot in my eyes - the characters just bungle around while being pretty unlikeable. Chase was a loser, pretty much, and Perkus was one step from being the stereotypical smart-yet-weird, stoner, faux-intellectual. It wasn't that the story was boring; it was just useless and borderline cliche in some aspects. I couldn't empathize with a lazy once-actor, nor with an evidently smart but absolu I had to force myself to finish this one. I love Lethem's style and concepts, but this story lacked any real plot in my eyes - the characters just bungle around while being pretty unlikeable. Chase was a loser, pretty much, and Perkus was one step from being the stereotypical smart-yet-weird, stoner, faux-intellectual. It wasn't that the story was boring; it was just useless and borderline cliche in some aspects. I couldn't empathize with a lazy once-actor, nor with an evidently smart but absolute nutter like Perkus. He reminded me of those people who smoke weed or do schrooms and think conspiracy theories up and believe they are somehow on or part of some \"other\" society that is self-aware on some other level. But they're not - they're just on drugs, and to the sober people, it isn't very exciting. The Chaldron obsession seemed more drug induced than anything else as well...was I supposed to read this book stoned? I did like how all the \"answers\" were revealed at the end, but really, my life was not enhanced by a 500 page novel about has-beens. And stoners. I'll still read Lethem, but I'm growing less and less enchanted with his fiction - his sci-fi (Girl in Landscape, Amnesia Moon, Gun, with Occasional Music) is infinitely better. ...more My favourite German word is bummel, (I also am very fond of the word Schmetterling just becuase it is so very unevocative). At its very best this book is a bummel, defined to copy paste from jerome k jerome \"A 'Bummel',\" I explained, \"I should describe as a journey, long or short, without an end; the only thing regulating it being the necessity of getting back within a given time to the point from which one started. Sometimes it is through busy streets, and sometimes through the fields and lanes; My favourite German word is bummel, (I also am very fond of the word Schmetterling just becuase it is so very unevocative). At its very best this book is a bummel, defined to copy paste from jerome k jerome \"A 'Bummel',\" I explained, \"I should describe as a journey, long or short, without an end; the only thing regulating it being the necessity of getting back within a given time to the point from which one started. Sometimes it is through busy streets, and sometimes through the fields and lanes; sometimes we can be spared for a few hours, and sometimes for a few days. But long or short, but here or there, our thoughts are ever on the running of the sand. We nod and smile to many as we pass; with some we stop and talk awhile; and with a few we walk a little way. We have been much interested, and often a little tired. But on the whole we have had a pleasant time, and are sorry when it's over.\" In this book Chase Insteadman, a former child actor who is a very listless man indeed who meets Perkus Tooth a cultural critic and together they smoke enormous amounts of dope, and eat cheesburgers, sometimes by themselves and sometimes with other characters. They walk in circles and try and make sense of the manufactured world they live in which is hard because it is manufactured and their roles appear to be randomly predetermined. Sometimes the symbolism is very clever and often very funny indeed, especially as New York with all due affection is a wonderfully inward looking self obsessed kind of place. The only issue for me is sometimes your just not in the mood for a bummel, you really dont have time to fully immerse yourself in a gentle stroll or your mind yearns for a straight path up the mountain and down with glow of achievement, at those times this book is a massively irritating story about a bunch neurotic stoners who talk an amazing amount of tosh. So before starting this book I would advise any reader to start off by asking themselves do I want to bummel or do i want to walk. ...more During those infinite summers of junior high, I would spend two or three nights a week at friends and one night hosting others. Such led to largely nocturnal existence, collapsing towards dawn only to wake at noon and go swimming. Role Playing Games, junk food and the new portals of Atari and VCRs extended a rather free reign to explore. One evening we were at my friend David's house, eating frozen pizza and talking about Culture Club. or, maybe, Chuck Norris Suddenly around 1 a.m. David's very During those infinite summers of junior high, I would spend two or three nights a week at friends and one night hosting others. Such led to largely nocturnal existence, collapsing towards dawn only to wake at noon and go swimming. Role Playing Games, junk food and the new portals of Atari and VCRs extended a rather free reign to explore. One evening we were at my friend David's house, eating frozen pizza and talking about Culture Club. or, maybe, Chuck Norris Suddenly around 1 a.m. David's very pregnant sister came over and said she was exhausted and that we had to go home. It was 1 a.m.! A younger guy, Jason said, no sweat, let's go to my house. This was strange as he lived across the street from my parents and this necessitated our crossing through our yard to access his house. It was around 2 by then and Jason walked in as if it was time for an after school film on ABC. His parents were watching cable and invited us in to gather around the sectional sofa. It was then I noticed they were smoking pot. Oh Shit. I had viewed Scarface (De Palma 1983) several times by then and I was convinced that some narco-hit squad was beginning its assault on the split level ranch house where I sat trembling. Undoubtedly, a few minutes thereafter I would be taken to the bathroom to be disposed of as an example with a chainsaw. I'm not sure i slept much that night. A similar paranoia underscores Chronic City. Theories threaten the presented (projected?) order. All of NYC is actually a confidence game. Everyone is either an avatar or a bit actor. I was ready to give this two stars. I hated huge chunks of the novel. I thought the astronaut dispatches were the best element of the novel. Those were quality. Somehow all the unfolding encouraged me. It was a modest reveal. No voila moments. Chronic City's conclusion appeared organic and thus palatable. ...more This is my favorite of Lethem's novel thus far. Fortress of Solitude had moments of brilliance, but the language felt too wanna-be DeLillo. Motherless Brooklyn was a bit dull for me, though others I know really love that book. I resent his novel about Silver Lake--I have not read it, nor will I. I realize it's merely \"an entertainment\" in an ouevre of more serious books, but after spending a whole novel complaining about the gentrification of Brooklyn, why go and write a novel about an east-side This is my favorite of Lethem's novel thus far. Fortress of Solitude had moments of brilliance, but the language felt too wanna-be DeLillo. Motherless Brooklyn was a bit dull for me, though others I know really love that book. I resent his novel about Silver Lake--I have not read it, nor will I. I realize it's merely \"an entertainment\" in an ouevre of more serious books, but after spending a whole novel complaining about the gentrification of Brooklyn, why go and write a novel about an east-side LA neighborhood, post-gentrification, without being sensitive to the area's fraught history? Not cool. Mike Reynolds wrote a terrific review of Chronic City, which I urge you to read right away. Just skip my stupid musings. I found this book dazzling in its strangeness. I love books about stoners, I think. Perkus reminded me of a friend my dad might have, if Perkus had moved to LA in the early-eighties and become a stand-up comedian, or gotten really into astrology. Or both. I can just see him sitting on the couch with my dad, dissecting movies on TCM, passing a joint, picking up and dropping with disdain the various magazines that litter the floor of the living room. In this scene, I'm in junior high, walking through with a big glass of Coke and a quesadilla on a paper plate, rolling my eyes. I loved the chaldrons in this book, and I love that I Googled the word to find that Lethem had made them up. I love the Second Life-type virtual universe. I loved the New York Lethem created--finally, someone gets at the fakery of that town! Lord, am I sick of hearing about how geniune and raw and authentic New York City is. This alternate-reality Manhattan was gloriously rendered. All of this made the book a fun read. A few times, the prose was a touch on-the-nose. Usually when Chase Insteadman (his name itself, a little on-the-nose) waxes poetic about his role: \"I might love Janice, yes, but what I showed these people was a simulacrum, a portrayal of myself\" (35). Duh! This line is like a 20-year-old English major's wet dream. Why don't you just write the paper for her, Jonathan?! Other times, the prose was difficult to read, clumsy. I'd read a sentence twice, and it dissolved before my eyes. A few just seemed overly complicated: \"Richard bolted from his taxicab, punching black shoe prints in the dusty covering that had begun to whirl from the sky\" (397)--there was real confusion for me here, with the use of \"covering\" to describe the layer of snow on the ground. And this one was just a mess: \"Now she'd taken a new assignment, covert as ever: an autobiography of Laird Noteless, who'd received the commission for the Memorial to Daylight popular sentiment had demanded in reply to the gray fog downtown\" (96). Huh? In both cases, I was yanked out of the fictional dream, so to speak--and if you're about to say, \"But, man, that's Lethem's project! He wants to remind you that you're reading fiction, blah blah blah!\" just shut the fuck up. Most of the time, I was in the fictional dream Lethem created--it was bizarre and complex and not-quite-real, but it worked, because the language was accurate and smooth, even if syntactically complicated. I wished the whole book had been flawless in this regard. Near the end, the language exhausted me, especially after a pretty upsetting event that I was emotionally affected by. I wanted to see the moment head-on, but the narration wouldn't allow it. Perhaps that was an aesthetic choice, but it's still one I didn't like. But, overall, an incredibly fun and ambitious book, and I'm glad to have read it! ...more First, a disclaimer: Chronic City will most definitely NOT be a 5-star book for everybody (as evidenced by the mixed reviews here). However, I can't be objective and knock a star or two off in order to quantify that, since it was one of the most engaging, thought-provoking, and just-plain-fun novels I've read in quite a while, with some of the most sublime prose in modern fiction. Here's a simple test to help determine if this will be a 5-star book for you, or a 3. Please choose the answer that b First, a disclaimer: Chronic City will most definitely NOT be a 5-star book for everybody (as evidenced by the mixed reviews here). However, I can't be objective and knock a star or two off in order to quantify that, since it was one of the most engaging, thought-provoking, and just-plain-fun novels I've read in quite a while, with some of the most sublime prose in modern fiction. Here's a simple test to help determine if this will be a 5-star book for you, or a 3. Please choose the answer that best describes your feelings: 1. I find Richard Linklater's semi-surreal, conversation-based films such as Waking Life and A Scanner Darkly (possibly Slacker as well) to be: A. Mostly amazing, makes me think deep thoughts B. Pretty good, nothing special C. Boring D. Don't know, never watched those 2. I find Philip K. Dick's paranoia-infused work concerning the nature of reality to be: A. Mindblowing and awesome for the most part B. Decent, makes good movie fodder occasionally C. Sloppy and/or incomprehensible D. Don't know, never read him 3. I find listening to philosophically-inclined stoned people frantically and loudly debate existential topics to be: A. Hilarious, with the occasional cool concept or nugget of seeming truths B. OK in small doses C. Very annoying D. Don't know, never was around any philosophically-inclined stoners If you've answered anything other than \"A\" to more than one of those questions, then there's a decent chance this may not be the book for you. However, even if you've answered \"B\" to one or two, but still had an \"A\" mixed in, then you may very well find this to be up your alley. If you answered \"D\" to more than one, then it's a total crapshoot, but it helps if you're someone who sometimes enjoys thinking about the nature of the world around you, just for kicks. \"C's\" are just-plain-bad as far as you and this book jiving. Either way, it's best to go in with an open mind, but at the same time realize that the many strange things about the Manhattan of this novel (the following examples are all mentioned early on in the book)--such as the escaped tiger wreaking havoc in the city; the transcendental power of rare vases called \"chaldrons\" that the main characters are obsessed with finding; the letters Chase receives from his famous astronaut fiancee, who's stuck in space due to a bunch of Chinese mines orbiting the Earth (and who Chase has difficulty remembering); the gray fog that pervades all of Lower Manhattan; even the mysterious homeless guy who lives beneath Perkus's apartment window--all have a purpose and serve as clues as to what's really going on. It's important to keep this in mind, and not simply go on thinking it's all just a bunch of characters and their insane stoned ramblings, with some tiger silliness and such added in for flavor. The first time I attempted to read Chronic City --a few years back--I didn't realize this, and I ended up giving up within a few chapters, not quite getting the point. Now it's clear I just wasn't in the right frame-of-mind. Intrigued by the constant praises the author heaps upon Philip K. Dick, and the fact that I'm a fan of Lethem's science fiction works of the 90's, I briefly skimmed online reviews, and the glowing ones all emphasized words like \"conspiracy,\" \"insane,\" \"simulacrum,\" \"uproarious,\" and \"existential.\" Those words are some of my favorites, so I dove in again with a different mindset, and I just now turned the final page, my mind well and truly blown. It definitely will not be everyone's cup of tea, so I can't give a full-on, no qualifiers recommendation. But if you're like me, and enjoy getting caught up in mysteries about what's real and what's not, with a group of eccentric thirty-something, pseudo-intellectual, \"used-to-be-a-big-deal-but-are-now-pretty-much-just-stoners\" (hence the \"Chronic\" in \"Chronic City') for company, then you're not likely to find a more well-written, absorbing--at times even mind-bending--book around, with more than a handful of laugh out-loud moments, a rarity for me with literature. In other words, 4 to 5 stars for those of us who are mostly \"A's,\" and 3 stars on average for the rest, in my estimation. Some people, I'm sure, will find the stellar dialogue and great characters (including the city itself) enough to carry them through. There's no denying that Jonathan Lethem can write, so have faith that it IS all leading somewhere, and just enjoy the ride in the meantime, even if it is a bit meandering. Me, I wish I could have spent even more time with these lunatics--especially Richard \"forever stalked by eagles\" Abneg, whom I pictured as Zach Galifianakis (bearded version), which made his plight even more ridiculous and amusing--and I'll probably be re-reading Chronic City every few years for the rest of my life, and that's more than good enough for a 5-star rating in my book, even if many may disagree. I have a feeling, however, that it will find its audience one day, but for now I'm just glad that I gave this book another shot, as I believe I may have found a new favorite author in Jonathan Lethem. 5 Stars ...more It was inevitable, perhaps. Chronic City is the book with which I acknowledge to myself that Jonathan Lethem has joined the ranks of Don DeLillo, Paul Auster, Nicholson Baker, Joanna Scott, William Gibson, Neal Stephenson, and so many others -- which is to say, he has left the vaunted zone of Those Who (to Me, At Least) Can Do No Wrong, and he has entered the zone of Those Who I Still (Kinda) Really Like (Most of the Time). David Foster Wallace had made a similar move, around the time of Hideous It was inevitable, perhaps. Chronic City is the book with which I acknowledge to myself that Jonathan Lethem has joined the ranks of Don DeLillo, Paul Auster, Nicholson Baker, Joanna Scott, William Gibson, Neal Stephenson, and so many others -- which is to say, he has left the vaunted zone of Those Who (to Me, At Least) Can Do No Wrong, and he has entered the zone of Those Who I Still (Kinda) Really Like (Most of the Time). David Foster Wallace had made a similar move, around the time of Hideous Men, but his recent and premature death has sealed him, or at least his collected work, in amber. Chronic City is the book with which I make the acknowledgement to myself, because the transition has been on my mind for several books, probably since Lethem's Fortress of Solitude. That book was his Underworld, his Spirited Away -- his \"pretty darn good book\" with which culture-at-large finally caught up and acknowledged as great, even if it wasn't really as great as what had preceded it. To use a phrase from Chronic City, it was the book with which he began to ride the \"hegemonic bulldozer.\" Chronic City is another of Lethem's SF-tinged realist novels. It takes place largely on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, which is familiar but slightly different. The Mayor is a combination of Bloomberg and Giuliani -- he's got Bloomberg's wealth and Giuliani's quality-of-life agenda. Marlon Brando may or may not be alive. In the long lists of pop-culture objects and individuals that make up much of the novel, mixed in are people and items that do not exist in our world. There is a Werner Herzog film he never made, there are directors who did not exist, and there are the Gnuppets, who seem to be the Muppets by by a different name. Any novel that takes place on the Upper East Side will have a twinge of science fiction, because the predominant wealth of that region makes its residents' lives so different from those of most of the rest of the city, much of America, and much of the world. And then there's the fate of an international crew of astronauts in Chronic City, who are caught in a web of Chinese mines, with little to no chance of survival. Add then there are the paranoid rantings of a bachelor culture vulture named Perkus Tooth, who in Chronic City makes connections between cultural events that suggest some conspiracy, perhaps a conspiracy to cover up that the reality in which he, along the rest of the book's characters, exists is in fact a simulation. That ranter and the narrator of the book, the latter a former child actor, become friends over the course of a story in which both a lot and very little happens. It's entirely worth reading, especially if you appreciate Lethem's eye for the way life imitates pop culture. It is fueled largely by conversations of individuals who are stoned out of their minds, which adds to the surreality and makes the paranoia palpable. Given Lethem's association with Brooklyn, the setting of Chronic City in Manhattan is of particular interest. Early on, I came to read it as a novel expressing some small amount of antipathy -- there is no one in the Manhattan of Chronic City whom the reader would want to be. That doesn't hurt the novel; if anything, it makes the various characters all the more interesting. However, nothing as I read the book through to its conclusion made me think that the novel is anything other than Lethem, in essence, mocking Manhattan. That's fine by me; it's just never fully realized, if it is his goal. What is fully thought out, though, is the story, which unlike so much contemporary fiction actually has a proper ending that not only satisfyingly explains things, but does so based on the logical constructs that served the novel up until that point -- specifically, that we cannot be sure that we're not in some Philip K. Dick alternareality, and that in the end it doesn't really matter; we just have to make due with what we have. I'm down with that philosophy; I just would rather live in the reality in which And She Climbed Across the Table, Girl in Landscape, and his first short-story collection -- The Wall of the Sky, the Wall of the Eye -- were where Lethem's imaginative head was at. ...more Jonathan Lethem escribi\u00f3 'Hu\u00e9rfanos de Brooklyn', uno de los libros m\u00e1s desternillantes que he le\u00eddo nunca, cuyo protagonista es un detective con el s\u00edndrome de Tourette (!). 'Chronic City', en mi opini\u00f3n bastante inferior a aquella, contiene tambi\u00e9n momentos realmente divertidos. Pero el aire que Lethem le ha dado a 'Chronic City' no es el mismo que el de 'Hu\u00e9rfanos de Brooklyn' o 'La Fortaleza de la Soledad', su obra magna. Se trata m\u00e1s bien de una obra ca\u00f3tica y dist\u00f3pica, todo un homenaje a Jonathan Lethem escribi\u00f3 'Hu\u00e9rfanos de Brooklyn', uno de los libros m\u00e1s desternillantes que he le\u00eddo nunca, cuyo protagonista es un detective con el s\u00edndrome de Tourette (!). 'Chronic City', en mi opini\u00f3n bastante inferior a aquella, contiene tambi\u00e9n momentos realmente divertidos. Pero el aire que Lethem le ha dado a 'Chronic City' no es el mismo que el de 'Hu\u00e9rfanos de Brooklyn' o 'La Fortaleza de la Soledad', su obra magna. Se trata m\u00e1s bien de una obra ca\u00f3tica y dist\u00f3pica, todo un homenaje a dos de sus autores de cabecera, Thomas Pynchon y David Foster Wallace. (De hecho en varios momentos de la novela aparece un libro en manos de los personajes de t\u00edtulo La bruma indistinta , de Raph Warden Meeker.) 'Chronic City' tiene como protagonista a Chase Insteadman, que fue actor infantil y ahora vive de las reposiciones de las series que protagoniz\u00f3. Chase vive su propia tragedia personal: Janice, su novia astronauta, est\u00e1 atrapada en una estaci\u00f3n espacial y recibe peri\u00f3dicamente sus cartas cont\u00e1ndole los problemas por los que est\u00e1n pasando all\u00e1 arriba. Un d\u00eda Chase conoce a Perkus Tooth, encuentro que cambiar\u00e1 su vida para siempre. Perkus, ex cr\u00edtico de rock y famoso por la confecci\u00f3n de carteles, le introducir\u00e1 en un mundo donde impera la paranoia y las teor\u00edas conspirativas (memorable todo el tema de los calderos) y la inmersi\u00f3n en referencias culturales varias. Chase y Perkus son los dos ejes de esta novela, dos personas que llegar\u00e1n a labrar una at\u00edpica y verdadera amistad. Adem\u00e1s de los personajes de carne y hueso de 'Chronic City', cabe mencionar tambi\u00e9n la ciudad de Manhattan, rodeada por una extra\u00f1a bruma, as\u00ed como el asedio a la que es sometida su poblaci\u00f3n por una tigre gigante (!). 'Chronic City' no ha llegado a entusiasmarme. Est\u00e1 bien escrita y Lethem es un gran narrador, pero me ha costado entrar en el mundo que plantea, demasiado ca\u00f3tico y excesivo en ocasiones. ...more Apologies in advance to all fans of Jonathan Lethem, but I found 'Chronic City' an incredibly silly, overblown and tedious book. The author never seems to be able to decide whether he wants to create a kind of Pynchonesque delirium, in which eclectic literary artifact matters more than character and plot, or a simple comedy of manners set in Manhattan - and the result is an uneven mess. He never really answers the question (if he ever even considered asking himself) why the general reader should Apologies in advance to all fans of Jonathan Lethem, but I found 'Chronic City' an incredibly silly, overblown and tedious book. The author never seems to be able to decide whether he wants to create a kind of Pynchonesque delirium, in which eclectic literary artifact matters more than character and plot, or a simple comedy of manners set in Manhattan - and the result is an uneven mess. He never really answers the question (if he ever even considered asking himself) why the general reader should be interested in his cast of self-obsessed weirdoes - with the result that their different fates at the end of the book had me shrugging and saying 'So what?' Yes, there are some vaguely funny moments and patches of good writing (the evocation of the installation artist Laird Noteless's 'Urban Fjord' being one example), but mostly the book is one long paean to self-indulgence. There are better New York-centred books around, a recent example being E.L. Doctorow's 'Homer and Langley.' While Doctorow takes many liberties with the chronology of the Collyer Brothers' lives and his prose often seems affected (maybe deliberately so, to reflect the fact that the narrator - together with his sighted sibling - was born late in the 19th century), the story is at least cogent and concise. Lethem, on the other hand, seems to have reached that perilous stage of authors 'arriving' in the sense of clambering aboard a huge hot-air balloon of their own devising. but then, when they take off into the vapid, literary skies, of finding they have nowhere to go. ...more A floating fresco of urban renewal, outsider cultural criticism, and the puppet-strings of power. Lethem's Manhattan is an island of literalized metaphor and dreamlike sets, one which he is nonetheless able to convey with a sort of conviction through an often thoroughly believable cast (all improbably Dickensian names and satiric caricatures aside). As usual, he's immensely readable, his plotting incongruous but ultimately convergent. Perhaps a little overly convergent, as after a while it start A floating fresco of urban renewal, outsider cultural criticism, and the puppet-strings of power. Lethem's Manhattan is an island of literalized metaphor and dreamlike sets, one which he is nonetheless able to convey with a sort of conviction through an often thoroughly believable cast (all improbably Dickensian names and satiric caricatures aside). As usual, he's immensely readable, his plotting incongruous but ultimately convergent. Perhaps a little overly convergent, as after a while it starts to become clear how certain threads must inevitably turn inwards. And those convincing characters have a very real rudderlessness, that can at times set the story seemingly adrift. Even so, it's probably his most ambitious novel to date, and earns many of the accolades it seems to be getting. ...more A smart and really enjoyable novel about navigating simulacra, authenticity, and free will. It makes me think of another book I really liked, The Invention of Morel, that explored the same themes in a much more minimalist way. Lethem's book has the added bonus of compelling, well-drawn characters and an involving plot. I'm not knocking the Invention of Morel - it's just that book is more of a thought exercise. Chronic City was fascinating to think about, well written, and enjoyable all around. Dazzlingly ambitious! Breathtakingly insightful! Flawlessly, flawlessly written!....And an absolutely unbearable slog to read. This book made me so angry. Lethem is clearly a genius -- he writes like no other and thinks like no other -- but a good novelist he is clearly not. Jonathan, listen to your editor (or get a good one)! This should have been a collection of essays/stories or connected thought-pieces on city life (like his fellow Brooklytterati Colson Whitehead's great Colossus of New York Dazzlingly ambitious! Breathtakingly insightful! Flawlessly, flawlessly written!....And an absolutely unbearable slog to read. This book made me so angry. Lethem is clearly a genius -- he writes like no other and thinks like no other -- but a good novelist he is clearly not. Jonathan, listen to your editor (or get a good one)! This should have been a collection of essays/stories or connected thought-pieces on city life (like his fellow Brooklytterati Colson Whitehead's great Colossus of New York ), it would totally have killed. As it stands, all the fantastic ideas and insights (seriously, passages in this book will leave you gasping) are drowned out by the rambling, useless plot, tiringly unnecessary details, and the almost offensively unlikeable ciphers Lethem tries to pass off as actual characters. There's so much in this book that I want to talk about with my friends, but I would never forgive myself for actually making them suffer through it. ...more Well, I've been wary lately of Jonathan Lethem, who I hear has put out a few clunkers since the stunning Fortress of Solitude . But here's a quote of his about this book from an interview with Brooklyn Based: \"One of my thoughts to myself when I started this book was that it was kind of an interminable and nightmarish Seinfeld episode\u2013the three guys and the girl hanging out in the apartment having these self- obsessed conversations about nothing.\" Sign me up ! I'm generally a huge fan of Mr. Lethem's prose, but this book eludes me. There's a great play with the thematic twinning of fake versus real, whether Manhattan itself can be a sort of illusionist dreamscape with its flotilla of rich upper-crust East Siders, its quirky on-the-fringe inhabitants, its hobos and entrepreneurs and underground trade denizens. I was more than once reminded of Matrix, especially when the discussion centered around simulated reality, but in the end, I'm just puzzled. Tha I'm generally a huge fan of Mr. Lethem's prose, but this book eludes me. There's a great play with the thematic twinning of fake versus real, whether Manhattan itself can be a sort of illusionist dreamscape with its flotilla of rich upper-crust East Siders, its quirky on-the-fringe inhabitants, its hobos and entrepreneurs and underground trade denizens. I was more than once reminded of Matrix, especially when the discussion centered around simulated reality, but in the end, I'm just puzzled. That Matrix thing has already been done. My admiration of Lethem, and having read his previous books, leads me to think he wouldn't even jump into this foray unless he had something new to add to this hoopla. The tale ostensibly centers around one former child-star -- Chase Insteadman (who mistakenly gets called Chase Unperson) and his striking up a friendship with Perkus Tooth, a former rock star critic (broadside creator and self-appointed cultural watchdog for those of us who may not be familiar with Frank O'Hara, Joe Brainerd etc.). The duo is joined by an old childhood friend of Perkus, Richard Abneg and his high society consort, Georgina Hawkmanaji. They often congregate in Perkus Tooth's apartment on Eighty Fourth St. and smoke pot, watch old black and whites until the wee hours, discuss esoteric issues such as whether the tiger that had escaped and now prowled Manhattan wreaking havoc indiscriminately on New York public services is real or a Mayoral cover-up for something more sinister, whether Marlon Brando is really alive or dead, whether life itself as we know it is Yet Another World (think Second Life). They become obsessed with a hunt for something called a chaldron -- a kind of intriguing vase -- that began trading on Ebay for thousands of dollars. In their chase of the chaldron, they in fact discover more layers of virtual reality than they bargained for. Floating into this mix is the fact that Chase Insteadman is supposed to be engaged to a lady astronaut lost in space -- Janice Trumbull, whose love letters to Chase Insteadman, become a sort of public treasure to be consumed by the general Manhattan audience. At Perkus Tooth's apartment, Chase also meets finally one Oona Laszlo - a ghostwriter-- whose current project led her to view huge dug-up craters called art produced by Laird Noteless. Chase Insteadman then engages in a torrid affair with said Oona Laszlo to reach a denouement that is satisfying to no one, not Chase, not Oona, certainly not the reader. Okay? What's the upshot? I've read a 547 page book and I keep thinking the whole book is an algorithm. But for what? Even the names -- Perkus Tooth, somebody Toothbrush, Laird Noteless (come on...), Chase Insteadman (instead of who?) -- feel like some kind of tongue-in-cheek Fibonacci sequence. I found Perkus Tooth too eccentric and strange, and despite attempts to make him lovable, he just wasn't, because half the time, I couldn't understand what he was on about. Chase Insteadman felt limp to me, purposeless, and spends all his time pushing away guilt he's supposed to feel about cheating on his lost-in-space astronaut fiance (who....get this....actually develops cancer of the foot in space and has to undergo a traumatic amputation), and the rest of the time led by his dick. To Tooth's fullness, Chase Insteadman offers one-dimensional caricature, but even this would have been okay, if there was just one personality trait about this whole bunch that made me care. Richard Abneg (short for abnegation?) and Georgina Hawkmanaji are too peripheral to matter. The chaldron? I couldn't climb on board that obsession no matter how I tried, probably because the characters were obsessed when stoned out of their minds. It's a bit like watching other people having a merry old time drinking or orgying, and you're sitting on the bench, just watching...how fun is that, really? I do come away with a sense that this is a very clever writer. In a way, the entire novel is a kind of play with reality and fiction. What a reader expects to get out of fiction. We know it's not real, but we want so badly to be fed a story that feels so real it overtakes our own life for the space of however many hours it takes to transport the fantasy. This novel refuses to do just that. Deliberately. Steadfastly. In its slippery quality, a stranger than strange story, one that reminisces Twilight Zone, it continuously gives you a story that makes you go, \"Seriously?\" ...more I was looking forward to reading this book, I really was. But as I got farther into it, hoping that something interesting would happen, I found myself wanting to do other things -- pretty much anything else, including dusting and emptying the dishwasher -- rather than read this book. Lethem gives us a motley crew of Upper East Side oddballs to start \u201cChronic City.\u201d Chase Insteadman, child star of a TV sitcom, now lives comfortably on royalties but is dealing with renewed publicity as the fiance o I was looking forward to reading this book, I really was. But as I got farther into it, hoping that something interesting would happen, I found myself wanting to do other things -- pretty much anything else, including dusting and emptying the dishwasher -- rather than read this book. Lethem gives us a motley crew of Upper East Side oddballs to start \u201cChronic City.\u201d Chase Insteadman, child star of a TV sitcom, now lives comfortably on royalties but is dealing with renewed publicity as the fiance of Janice Trumbull, an astronaut trapped in a space station orbiting Earth (the letters from Janice are arguably the best part of the book). Chase\u2019s newfound friend Perkus Tooth is a reclusive former guerrilla gadfly with an encyclopedic knowledge of obscure films. Their mutual friend Oona Laszlo is a ghostwriter for celebrity autobiographies. A few other types populate their small circle. They\u2019re not lovable eccentrics, or comical eccentrics, or scary eccentrics. Chase isn\u2019t really even eccentric, he just goes with the flow of the eccentrics around him. But they don\u2019t do much, and as such nothing much happens in this book. They smoke pot and discuss movies. They smoke pot and bid on vases on eBay. They smoke pot and go to fancy dinner parties. And when they stop smoking pot they don\u2019t get any more interesting. Lethem is a clever, creative writer \u2014 showy, even, but he has the chops to pull it off. His descriptions evoke searing images in few words; his phrases turn with an elegance few writers could ever hope to match. But it\u2019s largely wasted in \u201cChronic City\u201d on tedious characters and a plot that can only in a fit of generosity be called \u201cmeandering.\u201d The cultural name-dropping \u2014 both fictional and real \u2014 gets old quickly, and the over-the-top names are more distracting than Dickensianly apropos. Besides Chase, Perkus and Oona, we have Georgina Hawkmanaji, Florian Ib, Strabo Blandiana, Anne Sprillthmar and Laird Noteless. And the people with the halfway normal names \u2014 Janice Trumbull, the astronaut, and mayoral aide Claire Carter \u2014 turn out to be the more interesting characters, and we don\u2019t get nearly enough of them. \u201cChronic City\u201d reads like it\u2019s one big winking in-joke. It\u2019s occasionally droll, but carried on for 467 pages, it ends up quite a slog. ...more As of page 130-something, better than Bonfire of the Vanities. Or is it Bonfire as told by Philip K Dick? Obsessive, funny, and tragic all at once. 11.27 Finished this last night. Every once in a while, a book comes along that so clearly articulates how you feel about: cities, the internet (virtual realities, avatars), 9/11, NYC, love, sickness, and death. This is that book for me. My wife and I have a long running gag about a friend who refers to About a Boy as \"Life changing\". Well is Chronic Ci As of page 130-something, better than Bonfire of the Vanities. Or is it Bonfire as told by Philip K Dick? Obsessive, funny, and tragic all at once. 11.27 Finished this last night. Every once in a while, a book comes along that so clearly articulates how you feel about: cities, the internet (virtual realities, avatars), 9/11, NYC, love, sickness, and death. This is that book for me. My wife and I have a long running gag about a friend who refers to About a Boy as \"Life changing\". Well is Chronic City life changing? Perhaps. Or maybe life-affirming? Late night stoned theory-having justifying? What Lethem does here is so deftly slip in his themes and metaphors that before you realize what he's done (and when you think you see it coming from a mile away) he's already slayed you. Again. And again. Is the \"grey fog over downtown\" a 9/11 metaphor? Or is it something like deLillo's Great Event in White Noise: a distraction, a stand in for something unknowable, something to just tie loose ends? Is Perkus Tooth crazy, or just tuned to a finer wavelength? Does Chase Insteadman even exist? Having fairly recently come from an extended NYC trip, I read most of this as a great tight little satire of that society, almost a modern Edith Wharton. But then cracks appear. And no silly film flam with flying saucers or people ripping their masks off (though it could be argued that some version of that happens). Lethem always grounds even his most far-out passages in characters and dialogue we can relate to. And he can spin a sentence like no one since, well maybe David Foster Wallace (who gets a friendly jibing as well in the form of \"Obstinate Dust\"). I feel like the mark of a true piece of art is how much I want to live and spend time with those characters. I've never been a big stickler for plot, as long as I can really hang out with people I find stimulating. This is that book for me. ...more I wanted to like this book and I'm not so sure I didn't. Knowing that Lethem described his initial idea about this book as ostensibly a seinfeld episode, four people sitting in an apartment riffing about nothing at all, provides a wee bit of context. The subplot I wish Lethem delved further into was the relationship between the protagonist and his astronaut wife who is stranded in space. I found myself making a mental list of all the possible implications, symbolism, and metaphors this carries. Th I wanted to like this book and I'm not so sure I didn't. Knowing that Lethem described his initial idea about this book as ostensibly a seinfeld episode, four people sitting in an apartment riffing about nothing at all, provides a wee bit of context. The subplot I wish Lethem delved further into was the relationship between the protagonist and his astronaut wife who is stranded in space. I found myself making a mental list of all the possible implications, symbolism, and metaphors this carries. The protagonists wife, looming literally over his head throughout the book. Her letters as transmissions reach Chase (the protagonist) she exists in some sort of nebulous purgatory, neither here nor there, but always in contact. He can't reach her, yet she is always there overhead, with him... But what else you find are four people who smoke alot of pot and have those conversations you might think the uber-intelligentsia would have. The effect is strange. The reader almost feels stoned reading this: you're not sure if you're reading a relevatory narrative that explores all truths and one truth, the case for the flawed human psyche, critique of culture, blah blah blah, or if you really ARE stoned and when the munchies finally abate and you look back you realize you were really just reading pretentious nonsense. One thing Lethem did convey well was (now I might get some flak for this because I've only visited once and never lived there) is the general sense of the claustrophobia and paranoia of living in Manhatten. The four rooms inside one room, living on top of one another, the whole other world of basement bars and clubs and hundreds and hundreds of miles of tunnels. Not the easiest read and for the Lethem novice I would suggest Motherless Brooklyn or Fortress of Solitude. ...more Chronic City is a blithe flume of a book, looping off in multiple tangents, pissing on sacred cows. I am ruminating on a review... Es ist schon ein etwas seltsames Buch: Ein Tiger, der sich durch New York gr\u00e4bt; ein ein\u00e4ugiger Kulturkritiker; merkw\u00fcrdiger Schokoladengeruch, der \u00fcber der ganzen Stadt liegt. All das verbindet Lethem zu einem gro\u00dfen N.Y.-Roman, w\u00e4hrend jedes Ereignis dennoch f\u00fcr sich bleibt. Doch von Anfang an: Wir lernen Chase Insteadman kennen, einen ehemaligen Kinderstar, der noch heute von den Tantiemen der Serie lebt, in welcher er vor Jahren mitgespielt hat. Abgesehen von seinem bezaubernden Charme, ist C Es ist schon ein etwas seltsames Buch: Ein Tiger, der sich durch New York gr\u00e4bt; ein ein\u00e4ugiger Kulturkritiker; merkw\u00fcrdiger Schokoladengeruch, der \u00fcber der ganzen Stadt liegt. All das verbindet Lethem zu einem gro\u00dfen N.Y.-Roman, w\u00e4hrend jedes Ereignis dennoch f\u00fcr sich bleibt. Doch von Anfang an: Wir lernen Chase Insteadman kennen, einen ehemaligen Kinderstar, der noch heute von den Tantiemen der Serie lebt, in welcher er vor Jahren mitgespielt hat. Abgesehen von seinem bezaubernden Charme, ist Chase auswechselbar, kaum er selbst und doch das Sinnbild eines jeden New Yorkers, der in der grauen Masse verloren geht. Er ist jedermann, nur nicht er selbst \u2013 der Name ist Programm: Instead_man. W\u00e4hrend Chase' Verlobte, mit der er nie viel gemeinsam hatte und von der wir nur am Rande durch ihre Briefe erfahren, im Weltall festsitzt, widmet sich der Schauspieler den irdischen Dingen: Er lernt Perkus Tooth kennen, einen schrulligen Kulturkritiker, der haupts\u00e4chlich von Kaffee und Marihuana lebt. Die Sorte \u00bbChronic City\u00ab wird bevorzugt geraucht und verleiht dem Buch seinen Namen. Die gemeinsamen Abende geben dem Buch \u2013 das muss gesagt sein \u2013 keine besonders handlungsgetriebene Geschichte, sondern leben eher von den Charakteren, welche gr\u00f6\u00dftenteils durch ihre offensichtliche Oberfl\u00e4chlichkeit wirken. So ist es auch nicht verwunderlich, dass sich Chase in eine Ghostwriterin verliebt, welche genauso blass und unscheinbar daherkommt wie es der Name ihres Berufes suggeriert. Obwohl in das heutige New York verlegt, umgibt die Stadt eine Aura des Futuristischen: Es herrscht ein Krieg zwischen den USA und China, der im Weltall ausgetragen wird, es werden Kunstwerke in Form von Kratern im \u00f6ffentlichen Raum erstellt und ein Tiger, der sich als Bohrer entpuppt, unterh\u00f6hlt die Viertel der Stadt \u2013 bevorzugt die weniger lebenswerten. B\u00fcrgermeister Arnheim erinnert dabei immer wieder an Rudy Giuliani und Michael Bloomberg, die echten B\u00fcrgermeister, die f\u00fcr eine Aufwertung der Lebensqualit\u00e4t eintraten/eintreten und es sich auf die Fahne geschrieben haben, neuen, g\u00fcnstigen Wohnraum zu schaffen. Dies alles geht nat\u00fcrlich nicht ohne Einschr\u00e4nkungen, weder in der Wirklichkeit noch im Roman von Lethem: das \u203aEinstampfen\u2039 der unpopul\u00e4ren Stra\u00dfenz\u00fcge ist gleicherma\u00dfen Symbol daf\u00fcr wie die erh\u00f6hte Polizeipr\u00e4senz. Belohnt wird der B\u00fcrger jedoch mit Stra\u00dfen ohne Obdachlose und dem s\u00fc\u00dflichen Schokogeruch, der die Nasen erf\u00fcllt. Es ist mit Sicherheit nicht die Handlung, die dieses Buch ausmacht, denn von ihr gibt es nicht allzu viel w\u00e4hrend der immer wiederkehrenden N\u00e4chte, die man sich mit dem Gras-Genuss um die Ohren schl\u00e4gt. Es sind die T\u00f6ne, dazwischen, die die Lekt\u00fcre so lesenswert machen. Die klangvollen S\u00e4tze, die so pr\u00e4zise ausgearbeitet (und grandios \u00fcbersetzt!!!) sind wie die Stra\u00dfenz\u00fcge der Stadt selbst. Die Dialoge f\u00fchren so manche Diskussion \u203aad absurdum\u2039 und verspr\u00fchen stets einen sanften, unaufdringlichen Humor. Es ist sicher kein Buch f\u00fcr jedermann, aber wenn man sich einmal in die Welt von Chase und Perkus hineingefunden hat, wird man mit einer faszinierenden Sprache belohnt und mit Diskussionsthemen, wie man sie wohl in kaum einem anderen Buch findet. ...more Chase Insteadman vive a expensas de las re emisiones de un programa infantil en el que act\u00fao cuando era ni\u00f1o, y para matar el tiempo acepta peque\u00f1os trabajos en la industria cinematogr\u00e1fica. En uno de ellos conoce a Perkus Tooth, un enigm\u00e1tico y extravagante paranoico que vive obsesionado con las conspiraciones ocultas tras las referencias cin\u00e9filas que bullen en su mente. En su desordenado departamento concluye tambi\u00e9n los caminos de otros personajes: Richard, asistente del alcalde de Nueva Yor Chase Insteadman vive a expensas de las re emisiones de un programa infantil en el que act\u00fao cuando era ni\u00f1o, y para matar el tiempo acepta peque\u00f1os trabajos en la industria cinematogr\u00e1fica. En uno de ellos conoce a Perkus Tooth, un enigm\u00e1tico y extravagante paranoico que vive obsesionado con las conspiraciones ocultas tras las referencias cin\u00e9filas que bullen en su mente. En su desordenado departamento concluye tambi\u00e9n los caminos de otros personajes: Richard, asistente del alcalde de Nueva York, el \u00fanico, al parecer, que conoce la verdad detr\u00e1s del misterioso tigre gigante que acecha la ciudad; Oona, una ghost writer que trabaja en la autobiograf\u00eda de un artista; y un vendedor de marihuana que comercializa la misteriosa Chronic, una hierba tra\u00edda desde Sudam\u00e9rica. Lejos, en el espacio, se encuentra la novia de Chase, atrapada en una estaci\u00f3n espacial que dif\u00edcilmente volver\u00e1 a la Tierra. Como ven, los personajes son \u00fanicos, deliberadamente extra\u00f1os y fant\u00e1sticamente originales. Un claro homenaje a Thomas Pynchon, comenzando por los divertidos nombres. Y para que la existencia de estos individuos, necesitamos un escenario acorde. El Manhattan de Lethem se reinventa continuamente ante el lector, oculto tras la niebla que preocupa a los personaje y las referencias pop que salpican esta novela. Un simulacro, como establece el autor; menciones a Baudrillard incluidas. La ambig\u00fcedad funciona hasta que Lethem decide ofrecer respuestas, una vez que recuerda que una novela es m\u00e1s que sus personajes. Chronic City se lee como una introducci\u00f3n a una novela m\u00e1s grande. Los personajes funcionan, el escenario tambi\u00e9n; el mundo creado por Lethem podr\u00eda albergar desde una serie de relatos a una trama m\u00e1s definida. Termin\u00e9 esta lectura con la sensaci\u00f3n de haber le\u00eddo una colecci\u00f3n de cuentos, o una serie de vi\u00f1etas ambientadas en un universo com\u00fan. No hay un esfuerzo claro por proponer un hilo conductor, y la trama resulta la ser la desaparici\u00f3n de un personaje y su particular viaje a la \"lucidez\", que le permite al lector enterarse de la resoluci\u00f3n de algunos misterios de esta historia. No me hubiera molestado leer 300 p\u00e1ginas m\u00e1s, si Lethem hubiese establecido una trama coherente con la ambici\u00f3n de su proyecto. Narrador impecable, la voz que el autor le entrega a Chase fluye con naturalidad, tanto as\u00ed que se confunde con los cap\u00edtulos contados por un narrador omnisciente. No s\u00e9 si ser\u00e1 un efecto buscado por el escritor o si simplemente no supo diferencias las voces del relato, por lo que solamente dejar\u00e9 planteada la observaci\u00f3n. Efectivamente, esta novela permite advertir el talento de este escritor, adem\u00e1s de su originalidad y ambici\u00f3n. Continuar\u00e9 descubriendo su bibliograf\u00eda pues, pese los problemas que considero que tiene esta novela, ha supuesto una interesante aproximaci\u00f3n al autor. \u00bfQu\u00e9 novelas recomiendan de Jonathan Lethem? ...more For a few days I thought of not reviewing this book. I was so angry with it I just felt it would be a review full of venom. But as the days have passed and I\u2019ve moved on to another book and the duties of daily living, my anger has dispersed. Chronic City is an exploration in a wordy world of meaningless. Jonathan Lethem has written books I really like. That\u2019s why reading this book for me was so difficult to take. Lethem force feeds us the lives of Chase Insteadman and Perkus Tooth. Yes those are For a few days I thought of not reviewing this book. I was so angry with it I just felt it would be a review full of venom. But as the days have passed and I\u2019ve moved on to another book and the duties of daily living, my anger has dispersed. Chronic City is an exploration in a wordy world of meaningless. Jonathan Lethem has written books I really like. That\u2019s why reading this book for me was so difficult to take. Lethem force feeds us the lives of Chase Insteadman and Perkus Tooth. Yes those are real names only Lethem can summon. Chase was a child actor who now lives off the fame of his earlier years doing- well nothing. He meets Perkus a dope smoking, conspiracy loving ex-rock and roll critic through a common acquaintance. It\u2019s this friendship that drives the story. But it\u2019s a friendship based on nothingness. I\u2019ve had a recent e-mail conversation with someone else who has also unfortunately spent time with this novel. We both feel like we missed something. Like what the hell was the point of Chases girlfriend being trapped on a space station, a two story high tiger running amok in the New York subway system or the most infuriating sections of this book, the pages and pages of a search for a chaldron. The chaldron and the pages about it made me so hopelessly angry that I wanted my dog to eat this book right out of my hands and just tear it to bits. I\u2019m not even going to touch on the ending of this book. Some of you will find this book years later in it\u2019s soft cover form and think to yourself \u201cit can\u2019t be that bad\u201d. You\u2019ll buy it and start to read it and go \u201d it\u2019s going to get better, it just has to\u201d. You will finish it and say \u201d did that just happen, can this book be that pointless\u201d. I\u2019m sorry Mr. Lethem I don\u2019t carve up that many books when reviewing, but you wasted my time, you made me angry as reader and you failed to engage me the reader into your Chronic City. Please come down off your high horse and write a book with feeling. Feeling Mr Lethem you have the talent stop screwing around. ...more I haven't enjoyed a book so much in ages. It is laugh out loud funny and the contemporary cultural references to bands, places, and pop icons make you feel smart. Then Lethem throws us a curve by inventing events, like a chocolate smell that engulfs Manhattan, that are just close enough to what really happened to be reminiscent and send you to google for confirmation. That seems to be the point: his characters talk about Baudrillard and virtual worlds theory even as his novel enacts the philosop I haven't enjoyed a book so much in ages. It is laugh out loud funny and the contemporary cultural references to bands, places, and pop icons make you feel smart. Then Lethem throws us a curve by inventing events, like a chocolate smell that engulfs Manhattan, that are just close enough to what really happened to be reminiscent and send you to google for confirmation. That seems to be the point: his characters talk about Baudrillard and virtual worlds theory even as his novel enacts the philosophical effects of media manipulation and simulated reality. It is very meta. Ultimately I wasn't sure whether the book was a real commentary or just an observation; I am still trying to parse through how much of the hollow center of the main character, the unforgettably named Chase Insteadman (whom one character mockingly gets wrong as \"Cheese Unperson\"), is reflective of the void at the center of most modern Western fiction (see Jonathan Franzen, Michael Chabon), who just don't really have that much to SAY. They have marvelous dinner party conversation in book form, but no resonant cultural insights like Dave Eggers' better work. But then, some of our best writers, like Eggers and Kidder, aren't writing fiction anymore. Maybe so much of news is fiction that writers have to retreat to the real. ...more For most of this book, I felt certain I'd give it 3 stars (yes, these are things I think about whilst reading). Then at the end, a lot of loose ends came together in a most interesting way and I decided to up it a step. I've read several Lethem books, and he's a wonderful writer. This book is no exception; it's fabulously well-written. The problem, here, is the plot. It plods along at an excruciating pace at times, and more than once I wondered why I was reading this overlong book about stoner de For most of this book, I felt certain I'd give it 3 stars (yes, these are things I think about whilst reading). Then at the end, a lot of loose ends came together in a most interesting way and I decided to up it a step. I've read several Lethem books, and he's a wonderful writer. This book is no exception; it's fabulously well-written. The problem, here, is the plot. It plods along at an excruciating pace at times, and more than once I wondered why I was reading this overlong book about stoner deadbeats lounging around upper-class Manhattan. But then Lethem's hero Philip K. Dick began to show his influence, and the tiger that maybe isn't a tiger, combined with the fiance astronaut stuck in space and the mystical and mythical pottery all started to swell together and create a very strange and very unique world. I still believe 50-100 pages could be shaved off this novel, but I really appreciated the place it ended up. The last paragraph, in particular, is just weird enough to make PKD smile in his grave, and it made me forgive how weak-willed and bland our character is for much of the book. It's absolutely an INTERESTING read. The best part of it, I'd say, is Lethem's prose. It's quite fun to see a rather run-of-the-mill New York story morph into something much weirder. ...more It took so long for me to read Chronic City it started to feel like I was roommates with the sophisticated drifters populating it. The characters and plots are absurd: a poetic music critic is befriended by a former child star who is engaged to an astronaut stranded on a doomed space station, just for starters. The Manhattan they inhabit is a similarly doomed word to the space station, bathed in fog, pocked with man-made art chasms and ravaged by a giant tiger; and yet this book works as effortl It took so long for me to read Chronic City it started to feel like I was roommates with the sophisticated drifters populating it. The characters and plots are absurd: a poetic music critic is befriended by a former child star who is engaged to an astronaut stranded on a doomed space station, just for starters. The Manhattan they inhabit is a similarly doomed word to the space station, bathed in fog, pocked with man-made art chasms and ravaged by a giant tiger; and yet this book works as effortless an ensemble as on Seinfeld in it's prime. Perhaps it's an anti-Seinfeld, drifters playing around with the profound while wallowing in a maze of pot smoke and circuitous, conspiratorial speculation. You feel like an unaddressed member of their Scooby Gang, wondering when the sinister perpetrator is to be unmasked. Lethem's command of banter is intoxicating, though you start to feel the characters are just a few similarly-voiced facets of the infinite gem of this ghost Manhattan. It's little matter, even among the relative failures that plague the gang, they achieve a synergy both inspiring and humbling. I wasn't sure until the very end, but this might be a postmodern classic, built of other postmoderm classics stacked into a tower that peeks above the fog. ...more<---C>Jonathan Lethem</---C>", "Title": "Chronic City"},
