{"Comments": "This collection of 30 short tales packs in so much its hard to know where to start. Each tale packs a lot in with plenty of implied and hinted backstories and endings that let you build on the teaser style writing that Morris uses. Because of this, these stories don't feel anywhere near as short as they are and before you know it you have been pulled into Morris' world in all its strange, scary, odd and unsettling glory. Morris's writing flows as well as ever and will appeal to all types of read This collection of 30 short tales packs in so much its hard to know where to start. Each tale packs a lot in with plenty of implied and hinted backstories and endings that let you build on the teaser style writing that Morris uses. Because of this, these stories don't feel anywhere near as short as they are and before you know it you have been pulled into Morris' world in all its strange, scary, odd and unsettling glory. Morris's writing flows as well as ever and will appeal to all types of reader (unless you really don't like short stories, but even then you should try these to see how well they can be done). I was particularly fond of It's An Ill Wind and <---C>Dead Eye</---C>, and was somewhat amused by Progress and Better Late Than Never. A few of the tales were also quite touching, especially Swan Song which I think definitely ranks in one of my favourites. A great collection, proven by the fact that I read the lot in one evening...oops. ...more I need to pretext this by saying that I love good short stories. The problem is that many authors cannot pull it off properly. The characters usually seem too thin (sometimes non-existent) or the stories omit any descriptions to make room for dialogue or narrative. <+++>In All Probability</+++> is interesting because I felt myself feeling empathy for most of the characters while enjoying a well written prose. Morris does well at spinning intriguing tales where the characters seem, well, human. The diversity I need to pretext this by saying that I love good short stories. The problem is that many authors cannot pull it off properly. The characters usually seem too thin (sometimes non-existent) or the stories omit any descriptions to make room for dialogue or narrative. <+++>In All Probability</+++> is interesting because I felt myself feeling empathy for most of the characters while enjoying a well written prose. Morris does well at spinning intriguing tales where the characters seem, well, human. The diversity of the stories was also interesting. Not only do the characters come from all walks of life,<---M> convincingly told by the way</---M>, but the stories range from the subject of haunting spirits to espionage to dreams and memories. The book is dense with short stories, and, while their are some that I think could have been better, most are very well done. I almost want to complain about the brevity of most of them, but some part of me thinks that is one of the things that I liked most about the book. I very much enjoyed reading a whole story while I was eating my cereal or in one of the other few calm moments of my otherwise hectic life. ...more Book Title: \"In All Probability\" & \"Jumble Tales\" Author: <---A>Steve</---A> Morris Published By: Pneuma Springs Publishing Age Recommended: 18 + Reviewed By: Kitty Bullard Raven Rating: 5 Review: These are two wonderfully delightful books by a man that has clearly had his own ups and downs in life. Steve Morris weaves tales of good fortune and hardship with a master storyteller's pen. I am use to anthologies that range from romance to horror and almost any other genre you can think of, but this is the first t Book Title: \"In All Probability\" & \"Jumble Tales\" Author: Steve Morris Published By: Pneuma Springs Publishing Age Recommended: 18 + Reviewed By: Kitty Bullard Raven Rating: 5 Review: These are two wonderfully delightful books by a man that has clearly had his own ups and downs in life. Steve Morris weaves tales of good fortune and hardship with a master storyteller's pen. I am use to anthologies that range from romance to horror and almost any other genre you can think of, but this is the first time I have read a book about the lot life can hand you and the good or bad that often comes with it. I'll admit I was skeptical going into these books but I was surprised to find the mixed bag of tales that both contained. These books prove that true life can often be just as wonderfully exciting, adventurous, and fantastic as tales woven from the gossamer fabric of fantasy. I will be looking for more to come from this UK Author! Read more: http://www.greatmindsthinkaloud.probo... ...more I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads and was delighted to get it with a bookmark and 2 bookmark cards. This was a great collection of unique short stories! Even though the stories were very short, they had fully developed characters and ideas. I liked the variety of topics and the realistic combination of happy and unhappy endings. Some of the endings surprised me and just when I started to get bummed that things weren't working out for the characters, the author would thr I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads and was delighted to get it with a bookmark and 2 bookmark cards. This was a great collection of unique short stories! Even though the stories were very short, they had fully developed characters and ideas. I liked the variety of topics and the realistic combination of happy and unhappy endings. Some of the endings surprised me and just when I started to get bummed that things weren't working out for the characters, the author would throw in an uplifting one to change the mood. Many of the stories stayed with me even after the book was closed. Some of my favorites have underdog characters that win out, and an interesting \"imagine the possibilities\" vibe. They are My Tune, Potential Energy, Voices, Shared House, Better Late than Never, Dreamer, Enchantment, and Swansong. I enjoyed this book and would definitely recommend it! ...more This is a collection of various short stories about very different characters, with very different lives. A very good read as each story is usually only a short three pages or so. A lot of these stories left me wanting for more! A couple left me simply confused, such as \"Three Strikes and you're out.\" It was about a woman who is denied entry into a dating service after she had supposedly used up her \"Three times of true love.\" She's sadly turned away, and the story ends. Others, such at \"Let the This is a collection of various short stories about very different characters, with very different lives. A very good read as each story is usually only a short three pages or so. A lot of these stories left me wanting for more! A couple left me simply confused, such as \"Three Strikes and you're out.\" It was about a woman who is denied entry into a dating service after she had supposedly used up her \"Three times of true love.\" She's sadly turned away, and the story ends. Others, such at \"Let the Good Times Roll\" had me laughing out loud, as the world finds a way to make everyone happy. Things begin to go very wrong from there, and this story might have actually made a very good novel if it could have been extended another 200 pages! The author shows an amazing imagination in all of these stories, and I would really encourage him to move from short stories into full novels. An obvious writing talent like his should be encouraged! Great book, well worth the money! ...more In All Probability is a collection of 30 short stories, all with unusual endings. In fact, you could probably say the endings would not happen \"in all probability\". As I read one short story after another, I was reminded of the Twilight Zone... many of these stories would find a happy home on that show. They were all strange and quirky and I couldn't wait to get to the end to find out what unusual thing would happen next. Overall, the stories were very entertaining (true, there were some I was l In All Probability is a collection of 30 short stories, all with unusual endings. In fact, you could probably say the endings would not happen \"in all probability\". As I read one short story after another, I was reminded of the Twilight Zone... many of these stories would find a happy home on that show. They were all strange and quirky and I couldn't wait to get to the end to find out what unusual thing would happen next. Overall, the stories were very entertaining (true, there were some I was less interested in than others, but that's bound to happen). I would recommend this to anyone looking for an interesting, light read. ...more New, from the Northwest of the UK, This book has 30 snappy little short stories.<---F> Some are quite clever</---F>. I know that they are only short stories and many of us steer clear, unwilling to invest time into something so disposable but maybe that is what modern society is all about. (Some )of these are short little gems that flow just right for me. Don't expect happy endings, though! One to watch for the future. The best story was \"Lightning strikes twice\". New Promo video trailer here Steve Morris has done a wonderful job of putting together 30 short stories, roughly three to five pages in length, in his collection of short stories, In All Probability . The stories are about ordinary people, real people, you and me, and the choices they make which can have life-changing consequences. The endings aren\u2019t what you would call unhappy, rather they are what most probably would happen, and of course life isn\u2019t all happy endings so let\u2019s say the endings are \u2018real\u2019. Fate and destiny are Steve Morris has done a wonderful job of putting together 30 short stories, roughly three to five pages in length, in his collection of short stories, In All Probability . The stories are about ordinary people, real people, you and me, and the choices they make which can have life-changing consequences. The endings aren\u2019t what you would call unhappy, rather they are what most probably would happen, and of course life isn\u2019t all happy endings so let\u2019s say the endings are \u2018real\u2019. Fate and destiny are big characters in this collection and I believe control also plays a big part. For example, people wanting to control sleep, events, depression and emotions. It is actually a good life lesson \u2013 we cannot control everything, sometimes it is already predestined and if we try too much to change what, in all probability, is around the corner for us we can meet consequences we don\u2019t want to. We mustn\u2019t become too complacent, thinking that we have it made, because in the end what we thought we had and what we thought was a sure thing, in all probability, might be taken away from us. Nothing is a sure thing. A life lesson indeed. Call it karma, or whatever name you choose to attach to it, sometimes we do need to be taught a lesson just to let us know we mightn\u2019t be the ones in full control. We must also watch what we wish for. You may think you want change but you don\u2019t know what\u2019s on the other side of that change, good or bad, so perhaps we should be happy with what we have got instead of wishing we had more of something. Throughout the stories we meet with spirits, ghosts, workaholics, loners, dreams, conspiracy theories, climate change, OCD, the marketing of cigarettes, supernatural events and futuristic environments. I must say the futuristic stories are a little scary \u2013 because they could end up being real. They certainly have a real feeling about them. In fact, I would think these would make good stand-alone novels and perhaps that is something Steve Morris could work on. A lot of the stories I wanted to know more, what happened later on, and this shows good writing in my view. Steve made the characters engaging and because they are \u2018real\u2019 people I could see myself or someone I knew in some of the characters. Three of my favourite short stories in this collection: \u201cThe Lay-Off\u201d, where a soccer player injures his knee and is told by the doctor he won\u2019t run on it again. Soccer is this man\u2019s life and years later he does find soccer again (or does soccer find him?). What will become of this? In all probability perhaps not what you would expect; then again, in all probability perhaps what you would expect. \u201cIf I Could Bottle It\u201d is a great story of a department store employee being creative with smells. He places smells around the store in strategic places to evoke memories in customers of good times gone past in the hopes of them buying more product. What will become of this? In all probability perhaps not what you would expect; then again, in all probability perhaps what you would expect. \u201cSwansong\u201d has Darren as its main character. Darren is not well and is on lots of medication. He decides to up and leave, travelling to Ibiza where he ends up drinking quite a bit. Darren is befriended by a dog and they become inseparable. What will become of this? In all probability perhaps not what you would expect; then again, in all probability perhaps what you would expect. I loved how I could read a story here and there when I had a moment to spare. That\u2019s the beauty of short stories. Steve made the \u2018real\u2019 come alive through characters that were \u2018real\u2019. Some endings were quite abrupt, which left me wondering hm, what happens next? I can\u2019t say I could guess any of the endings, some were quite a surprise. In all probability most will like this collection of short stories and I say if you can get your hands on it read it, enjoy it and think about it. Thank you, Steve, for providing me with a copy of your work. I\u2019ve said it before and I will say it again, I love the cover! I wish you well in your future works and look forward to reading more from you. Thanks, Steve! ...more I won this book on Goodreads first reads and I really enjoyed it. It is full of many short stories with twists and turns which are suprising and very ironic, but not always in the way you think it may be. 'Dead Eye' was the first of the stories and turned out to be one of my favoruites! The story is very detailed for a story only lasting for 5 pages, Morris's ideas are all alike yet different in thier own way and I never could have guessed the ending myself. I found that I could relate to the sto I won this book on Goodreads first reads and I really enjoyed it. It is full of many short stories with twists and turns which are suprising and very ironic, but not always in the way you think it may be. 'Dead Eye' was the first of the stories and turned out to be one of my favoruites! The story is very detailed for a story only lasting for 5 pages, Morris's ideas are all alike yet different in thier own way and I never could have guessed the ending myself. I found that I could relate to the story and it is believeable as many things happen in todays world which are quite similar. 'All Around Us' was my favourit in the book. I was curious why they kept mentioning Mogridge and couldn't quite find the connection. I cannot imagine what I would do in the position which Mike and Janine are going through, I think their decision was sensible and shows that some people like Mogridge take advantage of things like that. 'The Brand New Colour' is a bit creepy, I am still wondering who those people must be whom he played rounders with. It gives me the chills. Overall there are lots of great stories in the book, only being a couple which I didn't like. I loved the front cover and the Biographical notes, as I am always intruged about what the authors are like when they write a certain genre. 7/10 ...more The book contains 30 short stories. Every story is different, you won't find two similar ones. They are interesting and during the read you have no idea how they will end. Stories concern every part of everyday life. They are about ordinary people which we can identify with. In the stories we see that nothing is sure in life and we have to grab the opportunities while we can because only moments later they are gone and we are stuck with regrets or consequences of the wrong choice . The author sh The book contains 30 short stories. Every story is different, you won't find two similar ones. They are interesting and during the read you have no idea how they will end. Stories concern every part of everyday life. They are about ordinary people which we can identify with. In the stories we see that nothing is sure in life and we have to grab the opportunities while we can because only moments later they are gone and we are stuck with regrets or consequences of the wrong choice . The author shows us what people are capable of doing to fulfill their dreams or reach their goals. Every short story is unique. Although the stories are only few pages long they give you something to think about after you're finished. I found it difficult to read one story after another, simply because I was still stuck thinking about the previous one. The stories are especially perfect when you have only a little free time and you want to read something but don't want to disrupt your reading e.g in the middle of the chapter. I really enjoyed reading it. ...more It is a book to read in small pieces, each story on its own. All the stories end with a twist, and most of the times I then close the book and think a bit about it. It does not then suggest reading another story. But that only means that it is a perfect book to fill those short times you have nothing to do between other activities, too short to start reading a longer book. It also means that it takes a loooong time for me to finish this book, and that is unusual, as I mostly read books very fast. It is a book to read in small pieces, each story on its own. All the stories end with a twist, and most of the times I then close the book and think a bit about it. It does not then suggest reading another story. But that only means that it is a perfect book to fill those short times you have nothing to do between other activities, too short to start reading a longer book. It also means that it takes a loooong time for me to finish this book, and that is unusual, as I mostly read books very fast. But when I have a longer time available, I tend to grab a book with a larger story, leaving this one for those short stretches. But the stories are good stories, very short ones, naturally, but complete. Recommended ...more In all probability is brilliant. It contains thirty short stories that you, young or old, will find exquisitley delightful. The stories vary in contents but Mr. Morris writes about things and emotions that we have all seen and felt. You will no doubt find yourself in one of his characters because he writes about ordinary people, not heroes as most authors base their protagonists on. All of them are exposed to an interesting ending whether its fate, destiny, or just irony. The stories contain eve In all probability is brilliant. It contains thirty short stories that you, young or old, will find exquisitley delightful. The stories vary in contents but Mr. Morris writes about things and emotions that we have all seen and felt. You will no doubt find yourself in one of his characters because he writes about ordinary people, not heroes as most authors base their protagonists on. All of them are exposed to an interesting ending whether its fate, destiny, or just irony. The stories contain everything, chills, humor, and at times unique abilities. But the ultimate question still remains, will YOU love this book? In all probability, Yes. ...more Short stories are one of my favourite things to read. I love to be able to read a snippet of a story yet it be so brilliantly written that it feels like I've read much more. I read this collection over lunches while in work and really enjoyed them. I enjoyed some of them more than others but obviously with something like this, there are gonna be some favourites and some which are good but not to your liking. I thoroughly enjoyed them though and will re-read in the future definitely! A fabulous collection of short stories that are all very different from one another. My favorites: If I could bottle it All around us Life's too short Three Strikes and you're out The best days of our lives The Brand New Colour Quiet Life If only It's an ill wind Let the good times roll: Probably my favorite in the collection. A look at what would happen if everyone in the world was always happy all the time. Memories are made of this Potential Energy This book is a collection of 30 short stories. They are very fast reads, only 3-5 pages each. In that short time you entire the life of an ordinary person as he or she deals with rather unusual circumstances or ponders life choices. I enjoyed it a great deal. Each story did seem to end with a twist of an unlikely ending, but the title of the collection points to that. Just don't read this expecting happy endings. Like a donkey's gallop, these stories are short, sweet, and to the point. It's great to have a book that one can occasionally dip into for a few minutes without committing to a big read. If you liked A Twist In The Tale, this is one for you. Read Mecheles review at: http://www.readforyourfuture.net/In-a... i so wanna read this book!! I loved this colloection as much as I love the ones in \"Jumble Tales'. Two weeks ago I entered the Goodreads giveaway for In All Probability. Of the 1165 people requesting the book, I was the lucky winner. The book contains about 30 short stories of 3 to 5 pages each. The length of the stories makes them a great read for a quick five minute break. Unfortunately this is also their greatest weakness since it\u2019s hard to create an atmosphere or detailed character in so few pages. Most stories have an unexpected twist at the end, but sadly this makes most of them quite un Two weeks ago I entered the Goodreads giveaway for In All Probability. Of the 1165 people requesting the book, I was the lucky winner. The book contains about 30 short stories of 3 to 5 pages each. The length of the stories makes them a great read for a quick five minute break. Unfortunately this is also their greatest weakness since it\u2019s hard to create an atmosphere or detailed character in so few pages. Most stories have an unexpected twist at the end, but sadly this makes most of them quite unbelievable. While this book might be great for a quick read, if you\u2019re looking for something less superficial, this may not be your best pick. ...more Jumble Tales is an eclectic mix of short stories, all of them short enough to read in a coffee break. They are perhaps best read in this way (rather than all at once), so that you can ponder the issues raised by each story before moving on to the next. The author has a fertile and wide-ranging imagination, and you never know what to expect from each tale. In fact, each of them has a twist at the end. I was never able to guess what any of those twists might be, so if you enjoy being surprised by Jumble Tales is an eclectic mix of short stories, all of them short enough to read in a coffee break. They are perhaps best read in this way (rather than all at once), so that you can ponder the issues raised by each story before moving on to the next. The author has a fertile and wide-ranging imagination, and you never know what to expect from each tale. In fact, each of them has a twist at the end. I was never able to guess what any of those twists might be, so if you enjoy being surprised by the unpredictable, this collection will keep you on your toes! By the way, I am not *the* Steve Morris, I am a different person with the same name! ...more I enjoyed this collection of short stories. I remember when I was a child I used to wonder why people didn't write books or make movies about ordinary people who live ordinary lives. (Now I realize it's because those would probably tend to be pretty boring.) This collection is a mix of stories that sometimes go in the direction they likely would in real life, and sometimes the way you'd expect in a movie or book. I enjoyed not knowing which way each one would go. A collection of short stories based around the theme of probability, chance and unlikely coincidence. This collection of short stories has a decidedly \"Twilight Zone\" flavor to it. They all have some sort of twist of fate in them. The stories are truly short stories; the longest one runs to about 7 pages. It's a great book to read when you don't have time to get involved in a plot. There are a couple of stories that just don't work, but most are fairly good even if some are a little predictable. Several toward the end of the book seem amateurish, as though they were thrown in to fill up space bu This collection of short stories has a decidedly \"Twilight Zone\" flavor to it. They all have some sort of twist of fate in them. The stories are truly short stories; the longest one runs to about 7 pages. It's a great book to read when you don't have time to get involved in a plot. There are a couple of stories that just don't work, but most are fairly good even if some are a little predictable. Several toward the end of the book seem amateurish, as though they were thrown in to fill up space but no one had bothered to edit them. The author's note says he wrote some when he was in his teens, and maybe those are the ones at the end that seem unpolished. Overall, though, the book was pretty good, as long as you aren't expecting happy endings all the time. ...more I won this book on Goodreads First reads and the delivery was really quick. I hesitated a lot for my rating between 2 and 3 stars. Most of the short stories are just OK for me. They are well written, but haven't caught my attention so much and most of the endings are not really interesting. However, some of them are really good. I really liked \"The best days of our lives\", It's an ill wind\" and five other short stories. It's not the majority, but I think that there are pearl in that book and tha I won this book on Goodreads First reads and the delivery was really quick. I hesitated a lot for my rating between 2 and 3 stars. Most of the short stories are just OK for me. They are well written, but haven't caught my attention so much and most of the endings are not really interesting. However, some of them are really good. I really liked \"The best days of our lives\", It's an ill wind\" and five other short stories. It's not the majority, but I think that there are pearl in that book and that probably anybody could find some short stories that they would really enjoy reading. ...more Now released on Kindle.", "Title": "In All Probability"},
