{"Comments": "okay so the ending - who knows - but the rest of the book had a lot of enjoyable writing. its true it was predictable and there were some inconsistencies, but then i realized she was 17 when she wrote this, so i forgave the flaws.(<---B>so magnanimous, i</---B>) it would have been 4 stars, but that ending.... but i have her other novel so ill read that, and the new one is out soon and im sure that they will be more mature but still retaining the \"good bits\" from this first one. My final feelings about this book couldn't be any farther from where they started. I selected this book as one of the latest piles for a speed-dating project , and after 50 pages I wanted to put everything else aside and immerse in the story. The writing of the young girl Jessamy and her mysterious friend grabbed me - it felt new, different, fresh. Somehow along the way it grew tiresome. I think perhaps the idea made a better short story and it just seemed stretched out, the ending was not very sa My final feelings about this book couldn't be any farther from where they started. I selected this book as one of the latest piles for a speed-dating project , and after 50 pages I wanted to put everything else aside and immerse in the story. The writing of the young girl Jessamy and her mysterious friend grabbed me - it felt new, different, fresh. Somehow along the way it grew tiresome. I think perhaps the idea made a better short story and it just seemed stretched out,<---M> the ending was not very satisfying</---M>, and it could have been handled better. Still a promising debut from an author I continue to hear great things about, and I'm looking forward to reading her more recent works. She was only 18 years old when this was published! ...more As an English teacher, I spend a lot of time being told to tell teenagers that the \"only\" important West African author is Chinua Achebe. Having long believed that Benjamin Oke and Sole Woyinka prove that wrong, I was delighted to find <+++>The Icarus Girl</+++> , and in it, a lovely, slightly scary story about a Nigerian/British girl. It is more Western than most \"Africa\" books; more African than most English books. In all, it is a delight, and I look forward to reading more from the same author. I didn't go to sleep the night I finished this novel. I got into bed and attempted to read my chapter or two and ended up reading until I was done...at 5 o'clock in the morning! Every time I finished one chapter, I had to read the next and then the next.<---F> But nothing ever happened</---F>...other than extreme creepiness due to the main character, 8 year old Jess's evil-creepy alter ego/spirit/imaginary friend of the same age. I had way too many questions when this story was done. I mean, I like it when t I didn't go to sleep the night I finished this novel. I got into bed and attempted to read my chapter or two and ended up reading until I was done...at 5 o'clock in the morning! Every time I finished one chapter, I had to read the next and then the next. But nothing ever happened...other than extreme creepiness due to the main character, 8 year old Jess's evil-creepy alter ego/spirit/imaginary friend of the same age. I had way too many questions when this story was done. I mean, I like it when the story kind of stays with you at the end and gives you things to think about, but this story just seems unfinished. Like the author got tired after the first half and neglected to revisit characters and events that were developed and foreshadowed earlier. Actually, I think the foreshadowing was all in my head...part of my need to know more...my refusal to believe that there wasn't more to be told of certain events later. I expected to learn so much in the second half of the book. Like I said, I stayed up all night to find out. All night. And nothing. Maybe it's <---A>Helen Oyeyemi</---A>'s age (19 when she wrote it) or my inability to read and understand her kind of storytelling. Whatever the case, I did not love this book. I wanted to SO badly. I think it's worthy of a re-read...in a year or so. Maybe it was me. I'm willing to give it another chance just to be sure. ...more If you believe there is a fine line between madness and psychic abilities this is a fascinating look at one troubled young girl's life. Well worth the read even if you don't hold those beliefs. 3.5 stars, rounded down for the ending, which felt too rushed and a bit too inconclusive! I have shelved this as horror, as it certainly contained some very creepy and downright scary scenes. On the one hand, it's a story about a half-English, half-Nigerian little girl coming to terms with her feelings of not fitting in. On the other hand, it's a dark dark tale incorporating some seriously terrifying mythologies. This book was written when the author was still at sixth form, and taken in that con 3.5 stars, rounded down for the ending, which felt too rushed and a bit too inconclusive! I have shelved this as horror, as it certainly contained some very creepy and downright scary scenes. On the one hand, it's a story about a half-English, half-Nigerian little girl coming to terms with her feelings of not fitting in. On the other hand, it's a dark dark tale incorporating some seriously terrifying mythologies. This book was written when the author was still at sixth form, and taken in that context the writing is amazing - I'll certainly be looking to read more of her work, though possibly not at bed time judging by this one :-) ...more This is an exquisite examination of the mind of an imaginative child, with just hints of otherness around the edges. The child and her thought processes are amazing \u2013 and Oyeyemi\u2019s ability to maintain a certain ambivalence is remarkable. It has taken me way longer than it should to get through this 320 page book. I just couldn't do it. I lost interest 100 pages into it, not because it was boring but because it just wasn't engaging. I didn't form any attachments to the characters, I didn't look forward to picking it up in my free time to continue reading, and i'm not at all curious as to how the plot will pan out (Ok maybe just a little curious, but not enough). Although i do have to say that even though i wasn't so invested in i It has taken me way longer than it should to get through this 320 page book. I just couldn't do it. I lost interest 100 pages into it, not because it was boring but because it just wasn't engaging. I didn't form any attachments to the characters, I didn't look forward to picking it up in my free time to continue reading, and i'm not at all curious as to how the plot will pan out (Ok maybe just a little curious, but not enough). Although i do have to say that even though i wasn't so invested in it, a part of me didn't want to quit reading. I wanted to continue against my will because it seemed to have such potential. Chapter after chapter i kept saying 'if i keep going, it'll pick up' but alas i just did not care enough about the story to press on, maybe some other time. ...more While this debut novel is certainly an impressive achievement for an 18-year-old writer, it's hard to escape the conclusion that purely on its own merits as a book, it's rather flat. Apparently partially inspired by the author's own troubles as a child, the story centers on the psychological problems of 8-year-old Jessamy. The lonely only child of a Nigerian woman and English father, she lives in the suburbs of Kent, England, and we meet her for the first time as she hides in a linen closet. The While this debut novel is certainly an impressive achievement for an 18-year-old writer, it's hard to escape the conclusion that purely on its own merits as a book, it's rather flat. Apparently partially inspired by the author's own troubles as a child, the story centers on the psychological problems of 8-year-old Jessamy. The lonely only child of a Nigerian woman and English father, she lives in the suburbs of Kent, England, and we meet her for the first time as she hides in a linen closet. The set-up is pure gothic lit, little Jessamy has been experiencing unexplainable fevers and tantrums and is considered \"weird\" at school. Events are set in motion when her family takes a trip to Nigeria to visit her mother's relatives. There she meets a local girl her own age named Titiola (aka TillyTilly) whom she befriends and who shows up on Jess's doorstep after they return to England. But is TillyTilly real? Oyeyemi is being deliberately ambiguous with the material, but as TillyTilly becomes more and more a part of Jess's life, and goads her into acting out, the reader is forced to make a decision as to how to read the increasingly sinister events. One option for the reader is to believe that TillyTilly is purely imaginary and a construct of Jess's damaged psyche, and that all that follows is Jess's doing. Alternatively, one can read the story as being more gothicly supernatural -- TillyTilly is real, and can affect the physical world. In my book club, people split down the middle on how they took the story, but for me, the latter interpretation is the only way to get any pleasure from the story. Especially as we learn that Jess had a twin who died at childbirth and that in her mother's native Yoruba culture twins have a very special resonance and power. The reader is given glimpses and impressions of the importance of this cultural element, but it's never really spelled out in enough detail. Oyeyemi attempts to build suspense and tension by slowly raising the stakes, but the increasingly strange events seem to carry less consequence than they merit, and it generally just feels like more and more of the same until an awkward and rushed climax in Nigeria. There are a number of other problems with the book. Although the author does a very nice job capturing the turbulent emotional world of a powerless 8-year-old girl, Jessamy is also far too insightful and learned at times (she's reading Hamlet, writing haikus, discoursing on Coleridge, etc.). Her parents are very poorly characterized, very flat and insubstantial, disappearing for large swathes of the story and remarkably inept and clueless when they are around. Given the fairly extreme and escalating behavior Jess exhibits, they express neither the concern nor urgency one might expect. Her therapist is equally flat, and it seems somewhat unlikely that his protocol would include letting clients roam around his house with his daughter (who is about the only other character with any life, a kind of bold and fearless type of little girl). Jess's Nigerian relatives are all standard-issue kindly, fun people, except for her grandfather, who has the potential to be interesting, but isn't given enough time to be fully developed. Ultimately, unless one is deeply into the mystical/gothic elements, the book is rather flat. The juxtaposition of Nigerian and English cultures doesn't really amount to very much (certainly not when compared to other \"cross-cultural\" novels, the most obvious example being Zadie Smith's \"White Teeth\"). The prose is fine, nothing special (granted, impressive for an 18-year-old), and there's really no reason I would recommend this to anyone. I wouldn't necessarily dissuade anyone from reading it, but there's just nothing particularly compelling about it. ...more 3.5 stars. Jessamy is 8 years old, half-English and half-Nigerian and has a friend named TillyTilly that no one else can see. TillyTilly wreaks havoc on Jessamy's life and the lives of those around her. I liked this book, but I also felt confused by this book. I came to this title because it was described as having a lot to do with Nigerian fairy tales. The moment I finished reading this book, I fired up google to find out what I could about Nigerian fairy tales, which was not a lot. So that unf 3.5 stars. Jessamy is 8 years old, half-English and half-Nigerian and has a friend named TillyTilly that no one else can see. TillyTilly wreaks havoc on Jessamy's life and the lives of those around her. I liked this book, but I also felt confused by this book. I came to this title because it was described as having a lot to do with Nigerian fairy tales. The moment I finished reading this book, I fired up google to find out what I could about Nigerian fairy tales, which was not a lot. So that unfortunately did not enrich my reading at all. That being said, Oyeyemi wrote this at age 19, which is really something. (I was doing nothing of significance or importance at that age. Just finishing up my gen eds in college.) It's also clear that she's grown significantly as a writer since then. There's much of the wit, life, and sinister magic of Boy, Snow, Bird in <+++>The Icarus Girl</+++>, but Icarus just wasn't as cohesive on the whole to me. For most of the book I was wondering if I'd missed something, but that wasn't enough to ruin the experience for me. The writing is clever and really beautiful at times, and dives deeply into otherness and race elegantly. ...more I didn't follow every single thing that happened in this book but it was okay? I was pretty into it, so even if some of its magical bits clunked around, I let them. I was entirely unprepared for how scary this was. It isn't a horror book at all, but a lot of scenes are genuinely frightening! I did a lot of the reading at bedtime, in the dark in a strange house. I loved it but wow. I impulse-bought this at a stoop sale just before leaving Brooklyn, even though I was on a strict no-new-books packing I didn't follow every single thing that happened in this book but it was okay? I was pretty into it, so even if some of its magical bits clunked around, I let them. I was entirely unprepared for how scary this was. It isn't a horror book at all, but a lot of scenes are genuinely frightening! I did a lot of the reading at bedtime, in the dark in a strange house. I loved it but wow. I impulse-bought this at a stoop sale just before leaving Brooklyn, even though I was on a strict no-new-books packing regimen. I started reading it on the plane the day we left New York to move to London, not realizing London is the setting of the book. Nice little tendril of fate. ...more Like almost everyone else, I was not satisfied with the ending, but marvel at the fact that Helen Oyeyemi was only 18 when she wrote it. Had everything somehow come more together in the end, I would have given this book 5 stars. Regardless of the ending this book is definitely worth reading and I look forward to discovering more books from this author! I am not sure what it was about this book that didn't engage me. I have to admire the fact that it was written when the author was in her last year at secondary school. And there is some very good writing in this novel. But somehow the book just misses the mark. The premise is interesting, if familiar, and suited to magic realism. A highly sensitive and imaginative child divided between cultures (the Nigerian of her mother and white British of her father) goes visit her grandfather in Nigeria whe I am not sure what it was about this book that didn't engage me. I have to admire the fact that it was written when the author was in her last year at secondary school. And there is some very good writing in this novel. But somehow the book just misses the mark. The premise is interesting, if familiar, and suited to magic realism. A highly sensitive and imaginative child divided between cultures (the Nigerian of her mother and white British of her father) goes visit her grandfather in Nigeria where she meets TillyTilly who may or may not be a figment of her imagination, who may or may not be a ghost or spirit of her dead twin. But the book's ending comes in a rush and doesn't resolve matters. It leaves you in mid-air. I have no problem with ambiguity, I wouldn't like magic realism if I had, but this ending did not work. I think that as a white Brit I probably needed more clarity about the Nigerian folk beliefs that lie behind the story. The book is written very much from the point of view of Jess, although on a few occasions the viewpoint slips, for example becoming that of Jess' friend Shivs, before flicking back to Jess once more. Whilst having a single person point of view can strengthen a book and the reader's empathy with the main character, it can also cause problems. As Jess is alienated from her friends, teachers and parents, so I found my understanding of them tended to be limited and two dimensional. The other problem was that I lost empathy for Jess, who came over as a hysterical and possibly manipulative little girl. I realize this review has been pretty negative so far but the book does have a lot going for it, including some lovely writing. The concept is ambitious and the subject matter - sisters, friends (imaginary and otherwise), twins, alienation and dual nationality - is promising (maybe the writer was trying to do too much as is so often the case with a first book) and overall I would give the book three stars, were this a blog that graded books. It's just that I have read some incredible books as part of this challenge and I would recommend you read them first. ...more I wanted to love this book. The themes of duality, sisters/twins, and cultural identity were engaging, but it seemed like these were never fully explored, despite the length of the book. The author, Helen Oyeyemi, spends over 300 pages drawing readers into her story, inviting them to wonder what kind of entity is at play with the main character, Jess/Wuraola. Jess is the nine-year-old daughter of a Yoruba, Nigerian mother and an English father. Jess is an exceptionally clever child, but has not I wanted to love this book. The themes of duality, sisters/twins, and cultural identity were engaging, but it seemed like these were never fully explored, despite the length of the book. The author, Helen Oyeyemi, spends over 300 pages drawing readers into her story, inviting them to wonder what kind of entity is at play with the main character, Jess/Wuraola. Jess is the nine-year-old daughter of a Yoruba, Nigerian mother and an English father. Jess is an exceptionally clever child, but has not developed her social abilities as quickly. She has the tendency to scream when she feels frustration or fright and has difficulty making friends. She remains lonely until she discovers a new playmate, Titiola (\"TillyTilly\"), on a visit to her grandfather's compound in Nigeria. Throughout the book, I couldn't quite figure out if Titiola was a ghost, an imaginary friend (no), or a some kind of Nigerian spirit. So much build-up would seem to demand a dramatic finish and a final confrontation between Jess and TillyTilly. Instead, the story fizzles out in the last six (6!) pages. As I neared the end, I kept wondering how in the world Oyeyemi was going to wrap this up--Not well, in my opinion. Despite these problems, the book includes some beautiful passages and character descriptions. [I forgot to mention that Oyeyemi was just 21 when Icarus Girl was published, a fantastic accomplishment for her.:] I particularly like Jess' Yoruba grandfather and the way their initial meeting is portrayed: \"...she [Jess:] allowed herself to stare openly and seriously at her grandfather, and he did the same. She felt as if she were a little piece of him that had crumbled off, which he was examining for flaws and broken bits before deciding whether it was worth taking it to be reattached\" (21) and the way Oyeyemi through Jess describes what a relationship between sisters should be: \"...sisters was something about being held without hands, and the skin-flinch of seeing and simultaneously being seen\" (211) Beautiful writing from an author with amazing potential. I didn't love this book, but I will read anything produced by Oyeyemi in the future. ...more The first third of this book was definitely the strongest. A wonderful introduction to the MC, and an even more interesting look at a compound families life in Nigeria. It got weaker after that, but I enjoyed the end even though many are upset by the ambivalence. A lovely debut novel. Has a little bit of creepiness that she used more of in White is for Witching . THIS IS WRITING. Mind-numbingly boring. Bailed a quarter of the way in. I'm not sure how much to say about the plot of The Icarus Girl . It's not hard to figure out what's really going on in the story if you give it some effort, so it's not like I'm giving wild spoilers or anything. But then again - what about those readers who would like to know as little as possible going in to a story like this? I guess I'll try to skirt the issue as much as I can, but if you're planning on reading this and want to remain untainted by anything resembling a spoiler, now is the time I'm not sure how much to say about the plot of The Icarus Girl . It's not hard to figure out what's really going on in the story if you give it some effort, so it's not like I'm giving wild spoilers or anything. But then again - what about those readers who would like to know as little as possible going in to a story like this? I guess I'll try to skirt the issue as much as I can, but if you're planning on reading this and want to remain untainted by anything resembling a spoiler, now is the time to leave. For the rest of us... this book is unique. It's an unusual story with an unusual perspective and an unusual framework. It's filled with Nigerian, specifically Yoruba, folklore and culture mixed with modern contemporary British culture. (Fun fact of the day - did you know that the Yoruba in Nigeria have an above-average incidence of twin births? Something like 14% of births are twins. This is important because of reasons.) The Nigerian culture and folklore are the heart of this story while the setting is mostly modern London, and the two are not always the best of friends. I think that's a lot of what this book ends up being \"about.\" Having roots in one place but living in another. Keeping your cultural heritage while also belonging in your new home. The cognitive dissonance from being half of something. (Important because of reasons.) The end of the story felt a bit unresolved, which doesn't necessarily bother me, and a bit abrupt, which does. It felt like we were building up to something major, moving faster and faster to the peak, and then the story just ends. We're not sent hurtling down after a big reveal. We're not even dropped and abandoned in the dark, wondering what it all meant. It's just kind of over. A bit disappointing, but considering that Oyeyemi was a teenager (!) when she wrote this, it's still pretty astounding. And if I got nothing else out of this, I learned about ibeji and have requested a book on the subject. So, win! ...more This has a pretty, literary cover and a pretty, literary title and so I thought it would be, at most , part of the Todorovan fantastic, maybe it is real and maybe it is imagined/insanity, which, honestly, I find one of the most boring conceits in all of literature most of the time. But no! There is an ACTUAL GHOST. Or perhaps not a ghost. But an actual supernatural being. Structurally, this is a very traditional ghost story. The prose is lovely, but my favorite thing is Jess and her reserve (must This has a pretty, literary cover and a pretty, literary title and so I thought it would be, at most , part of the Todorovan fantastic, maybe it is real and maybe it is imagined/insanity, which, honestly, I find one of the most boring conceits in all of literature most of the time. But no! There is an ACTUAL GHOST. Or perhaps not a ghost. But an actual supernatural being. Structurally, this is a very traditional ghost story. The prose is lovely, but my favorite thing is Jess and her reserve (must type up favorite quote). Her grandfather is also wonderful. The parents are very well done, too, you can see the gap between what they understand and what Jess understands, and they're not vilified at all. The ending's a bit abrupt. ...more If you pick up this crazily awesome book late at night like I did last night you will be forced to stay up all night just to finish it, as I have. I just could not put this book down. It was unique and creepy and really excelled at creating a frightening atmosphere, while having ambitions beyond just scaring its audience. All the fun of a popcorn read and all the beautiful prose, sensitivity, and depth of a so called \"literary\" novel. I loved it! Drop what you're doing and read this now. *3.5 Jessamy Harrison is eight years old at the start of this book, living in England, struggling with constant nightmares, fits of fever or other illness and nameless sense of fear that causes her to fall down screaming. Her mother takes Jess and her father to Nigeria, for their first visit to her family and the house where she grew up. Jess is delighted with her Nigerian grandfather, but even more intrigued by a ragged girl, Tilly, who seems to be living in an abandoned outbuilding. Tilly can do as Jessamy Harrison is eight years old at the start of this book, living in England, struggling with constant nightmares, fits of fever or other illness and nameless sense of fear that causes her to fall down screaming. Her mother takes Jess and her father to Nigeria, for their first visit to her family and the house where she grew up. Jess is delighted with her Nigerian grandfather, but even more intrigued by a ragged girl, Tilly, who seems to be living in an abandoned outbuilding. Tilly can do astonishing things- open locked doors, turn invisible, steal things, and possibly place curses on people who upset her. Jess is sad to say goodbye to her new friend when she returns home but Tilly turns up at her door in England. For a while, Tilly seems like Jess's best friend. But Tilly is bitter and her vengeance is harsh. Soon, this girl who seemed like a gift begins to haunt Jess and plague her worst nighttime terrors. This was Helen Oyeyemi's first novel, finished when she was only 19, and it shows some first novel weaknesses. I finished the book, and was very interested by some parts, but I feel like Oyeyemi explored many of the same themes (haunted twins, a blurring of reality into madness, cross-cultural clashes of beliefs) with more richness and maturity in her later novel White is for Witching . I'd recommend that one, or her brilliant short story collection What Is Not Yours Is Not Yours over this one. ...more I\u2019m still waffling on if this is 2.5 or a solid 3. I'm going with a 3 for the sake of GR's rating system, but also because I did like this book. There isn't a thing wrong with the storyline, in fact, The Icarus Girl has a unique and intriguing plot. It\u2019s all about a half-Nigerian, half-English eight-year-old named Jessamy, who is having difficulty adjusting to her social surroundings. To escape her realities, she does what any child would do and that is finds acceptance in creating imaginary wor I\u2019m still waffling on if this is 2.5 or a solid 3. I'm going with a 3 for the sake of GR's rating system, but also because I did like this book. There isn't a thing wrong with the storyline, in fact, The Icarus Girl has a unique and intriguing plot. It\u2019s all about a half-Nigerian, half-English eight-year-old named Jessamy, who is having difficulty adjusting to her social surroundings. To escape her realities, she does what any child would do and that is finds acceptance in creating imaginary worlds. When Jessamy visits her grandfather in Nigeria during a trip with her parents, she befriends a mysterious girl called, TillyTilly. All seems harmless and Jessamy finds companionship with her new friend, but something still isn't quite right about her, and when TillyTilly follows Jessamy back to England we learn that TillyTilly is no ordinary \u201cimaginary friend\". I thought the idea of a child having an imaginary friend that is more than what appears was brilliant. Helen Oyeyemi really does capture the fanciful environment we make up around that age, and as an only child myself who also had trouble fitting in like Jessamy I related a lot on that level as I used to pretend that I had imaginary brothers and sisters and would tell strangers about them even going as far as naming them and thinking up traits. I have since learned to embrace my \u201csolo\u201d status and well, a lot of my \u201cimaginary friends\u201d are now the characters in the stories I write, but I don\u2019t think I had such a tragic attachment to my imaginary friends like Jessamy did to TillyTilly. She was so attached to her, that even she was frightened by this power, and of course of TillyTilly\u2019s less than favorable actions. This story reminded me of a cross-cultural spin on both The Other and The Exorcist , where the child is overtaken by some unknown force and everyone around them including the child, is trying to figure out what the heck is going on and if what is happening is for real or imaginary or if the child is doing this all on her own. That was something I truly appreciated. I mean, Oyeyemi was writing straight-up horror at this point in the book where we're trying to decide if Jessamy was in fact \"Tilly\". Most horror novels these days are negated to stupid Twilight -esque fodder and are over-saturated by zombie and/or dystopian future books due to Hunger Games ' and The Walking Dead 's popularity. I miss reading good old fashioned thriller stories like the ones I read in the '90s or going through the modern horror of the books my Mom collected in the '70s. This was like reading a Twilight Zone or Friday The 13th: The Series episode and I found that so refreshing I couldn't contain myself. But sadly, as the book goes on, things get a little muddled and well, not good. Oyeyemi\u2019s writing while very well-done and poetic in many spots gets a little precious in times where simple explanation was needed and also begins to act above her readers to the point where her explaining the story gets screwed up. There are some underdeveloped characters, namely her parents, all of whom just needed to be fleshed out better. I especially wanted to know her parents back story. I mean, they were a mixed race couple...there is a story there and Oyeyemi kept emphasizing it so hard that there must have been a reason...right? Also the grandfather's knowledge about the 'spirit world\u2019 also was poorly described and he was a character as a whole who was just waiting to be elaborated on. Also Jessamy herself was kind of a limp main character at times as I don\u2019t think I ever got to \u2018feel\u2019 her. Then again maybe that was intention because she was a child and doesn't \u2018know herself\u2019 yet, but it sometimes bothered me that she\u2019d act like a three-year-old one minute and then act like a thirty-year-old. Or was that intentional? The most glaring problem I had has me going back to the grandfather. I wanted to know more about Nigerian folklore, especially in crucial moments where Tilly's power was growing. I know, I know, she explained (view spoiler) [the twin thing (hide spoiler) ] , but it still felt like everything was kind of just scratched on the surface. I know it\u2019s a horror story, you want mystery and I love that, but Oyeyemi writes things in as if we\u2019re supposed to know all the rituals and figures of this culture, and I didn't like that especially since those elements play a HUGE role in the storyline. This story just isn't taunt enough thanks to that omission and poor character development. I think, and maybe its telling from the fact that Oyeyemi wrote this when she was sixteen or something that Oyeyemi may have needed to stave off of publishing this book till she was a little older and had a better editing sight. This story could have been so much more, as like I said, some things are vaguely explained and there were a couple of moments where I got lost in the surrealness of what was going on, forcing me to re-read several passages, and at some points I was still scratching my head to \u201cDid this actually happen? Help me, I feel stupid!\". I think the ending, (view spoiler) [when she goes back to Nigeria for what turns out to be a showdown with TillyTilly (hide spoiler) ] really was the best macabre moment, with her grandfather and the birthday party, but then things just end so abruptly that I was little upset about that. Not because it ended, but because there were some loose ends that needed to be tied and left me with more questions than answers ( (view spoiler) [So did Siobhan die? Did her Dad really see Tilly Tilly and if so, why did she show herself to him? (hide spoiler) ] ). Amid it's flaws, some glaring and some of my own personal nit-picks, I think this is a very bewitching book. It's spooky and engrossing in patches, and for the most part I enjoyed it. I still would recommend this book for the sake of such a unique and original story, but will caution that you may find yourself wanting more by the time you reach that final page. ...more There's a complete spoiler-ridden review on my blog . Helen Oyeyemi (is that an awesome name or what?!) was only eighteen when she wrote this novel. I've seen no word as to why a novel so closely tied to Africa has a title taken from Greek mythology! The story begins with Jessamy Harrison hiding in a cupboard. Her mother finally locates her and asks her how she would like to go to Nigeria for a vacation, and off they go to visit her mum's family. Jess feels just as alienated in Nigeria as she did There's a complete spoiler-ridden review on my blog . Helen Oyeyemi (is that an awesome name or what?!) was only eighteen when she wrote this novel. I've seen no word as to why a novel so closely tied to Africa has a title taken from Greek mythology! The story begins with Jessamy Harrison hiding in a cupboard. Her mother finally locates her and asks her how she would like to go to Nigeria for a vacation, and off they go to visit her mum's family. Jess feels just as alienated in Nigeria as she did in England, but things change for her. Two things happen in Nigeria other than what the story purports to relate. One is Oyeyemi's annoying use of Nigerian words to 'describe' things without actually describing the thing - so we learn nothing of the Yoruba language or of Nigeria! I don\u2019t know why authors do this! There's no glossary, but at least there's no prologue, so that kinda balances out! The other thing is that Jess's grandfather is very patriarchal and condescending towards women. They\u2019re more like servants than fellow human beings. He resents Jess's mom for not doing what he expected of her, which was that she would go to med school. Instead she went the English language route and became a writer. Despite this, Jess takes a liking to him. I don't know what bearing Jess's mom's history has on this story if any. At one point, Jess's skin is described thus; \"..milky coffee-colored...\". I've seen someone complain about the use of foodstuffs (chocolate, coffee) to describe dark skin coloring. I don\u2019t understand this complaint! Are we being accused of cannibalism? The people who complain about this seem not to grasp that things have more than one attribute. Coffee, for example, is a drink, a bean, a bush, and it's also a color. When people use the term to describe a person's skin, they aren't comparing that person with a beverage, or a seed, or a plant! What are we supposed to do? Say the person was as brown as dirt?! Describe them as the color of feces? Given that choice, I sure know which I'd rather be compared with! Having said that, there is always room for more thought on the part of the writer; perhaps some weight should be given to comparing a character's attributes with something which is much more personal to the character or their history. One day, Jess notices a faint light in a building in her grandfather's compound which shouldn\u2019t be there. She's been told the building used to be the boys (servant's) quarters but is no longer in use. Slavery in Africa! Jess, of course, has to investigate and she finds the place in complete disuse and covered in dust, but in one place in this dust is written 'HEllO JEssY', which causes her to feel distinctly uncomfortable, since this is the second time since she's been in Nigeria that she's been called something she's not used to. Her grandfather called her by her Nigerian name, Wuraola, when he first met her. I found it intriguing that both times the 'hello Jessy' term is used, the letters which are in lower case are the twin letters in each word. Later, Jess meets Titiola, evidently the girl who wrote her name in the dust. The first few things she says are merely repetitions of what Jess says to her, but later Jess is drawn to her grandfather's locked study, where she finds the door unaccountably open and TillyTilly (as Jess has now dubbed her) waiting inside for her. The two of them look at some of his books, by candle-light - candles TillyTilly has apparently stolen from the house. Later, Jess finds a copy of Louisa May Alcott's Little Women by her bed with HEllO JEssY written in it. Evidently it's a gift from her new friend. I like Jess already. She has a peculiar way of looking at life that actually comports with my own in many regards, and she loves books! I particularly loved her when I found that she likes to annotate the books she reads with her own improvements added in pencil to the original text! I don\u2019t do this, but I do think this at times! So now Oyeyemi has me invested in her character, and I will never forgive her if she lets harm befall young Jess! One day TillyTilly shows up and asks Jess to go to the local amusement park with her, except that it\u2019s not so local when you have to walk there. Since it\u2019s Sunday, the park is closed, but TillyTilly somehow makes the padlocked gate open and they spend a fun time in there playing until the electricity shuts off, whereupon TillyTilly suggests that Jess go home. She does, and gets into a bit of trouble from her folks for disappearing. Soon - surprisingly soon - it\u2019s time for Jess to return to England. She's supposedly been in Nigeria for a month, but the way the story was told made it seem like it was only a week or so. Back in England, school starts up again and Jess starts having her usual problems with people there. She has no real friends and resents the behavior of some of her class-mates. It\u2019s almost like Jess is an actor, trying to perform in a certain way to fit in with the production called \"day to day life\", but her fellow actors are so average that she really can\u2019t see how the performance will rise to the height it should be at, and all-too-often (once-per-week according to Jess's own calculations, on average), Jess evidently has a breakdown because of this, whereupon she doubles over, and screams and screams. This naturally causes considerable consternation, but no one seems to know what to do about it. The doctors can find nothing physically wrong with her and Jess doesn\u2019t feel able to communicate anything of utility on this problem to her parents. Then Tilly-Tilly shows up and things go from bad to worse to disturbing to deadly serious. I highly recommend this book. ...more The full Double Review can be found at Bitches With Books . This was a highly anticipated read for me. Oyeyemi has written several novels since her debut, The Icarus Girl , and has generally received a lot of praise for her works of magical realism. And, of course, I was curious about the book written by this author who apparently wrote so magically and captivatingly at only 21 years old when she was still in university (that's when she wrote The Icarus Girl). I suppose we are conditioned these day The full Double Review can be found at Bitches With Books . This was a highly anticipated read for me. Oyeyemi has written several novels since her debut, The Icarus Girl , and has generally received a lot of praise for her works of magical realism. And, of course, I was curious about the book written by this author who apparently wrote so magically and captivatingly at only 21 years old when she was still in university (that's when she wrote The Icarus Girl). I suppose we are conditioned these days (or probably it has always been the case) to be curious about young talent... I feel like I simultaneously have a lot and very little to say. I liked the quiet, suspenseful air of foreboding that Oyeyemi was able to construct and the way she weaves the peculiar into the everyday. Jessamy\u2019s character really annoyed me at times\u2026and then I\u2019d feel bad for being annoyed because there is perhaps a weird place between attention-seeking spoilt brat and nervous/anxious child that is difficult to assess and that calls for better understanding. I would have a difficult time with her, though. And for this reason I often found myself sympathising the most with her mother (and her father, but in a different way). Even when he mother would do or say questionable things that I didn\u2019t always agree with, I understood the plight she was in. In a weird way, because I was \u201cin\u201d Jessamy\u2019s head, I found it difficult to feel sorry for her when she had her screaming fits. Complicated feelings ensue. Conversely, it also got me thinking about the kinds of characters I tend to love. They aren\u2019t always like me necessarily (maybe in some ways), but I think they are often what I would like to be. (Do you tend to like characters who are like you, not at all like you, or like what you\u2019d like to be?) My favourite character in this story was definitely Shivs: the fearless, kind, cheeky little loudmouth. This story was actually a great vehicle for touching on a lot of things that seem incidental to the story about the life of a mixed-race and (equally importantly) mixed-culture family. I felt worried at times that there might be a Western tendency to judge the African family culture which, like the Caribbean family, can be difficult to understand the intricacies of if you\u2019re outside of it. I think it was represented fairly accurately, and I know that it may seem harsh at times, but I don\u2019t think there\u2019s much that can be done about how outsiders to that culture will perceive it\u2026 It was also interesting to see the way dysfunction was shown at varying levels in two different families with different cultures (Colleen\u2019s and Jessamy\u2019s). Tilly\u2019s story was predictable, but I don\u2019t think it was meant to be a surprise either. It was more like dramatic irony as the reader knows, more or less, what is going on but Jess, a child, cannot see what seems so obvious because she\u2019s blinded by the enormity of her loneliness, naivety and desire for friendship. I think The Icarus Girl is somewhere just under four stars for me, but close enough. I did really enjoy it and I would absolutely recommend it for a fun, suspenseful, mildly(!) scary read. Further discussion post at Bitches with Books! ...more Jessamy Harrison is a somber, contemplative child who keeps to herself. She loses herself in her world and her imagination. Her mother, a writer originally from Nigeria, decides to take her family (which includes Jess and her English husband) to her home country where Jess learns about her mother\u2019s roots for the first time from her mother\u2019s family. There Jess meets a little girl named TillyTilly who becomes one of Jess\u2019 closest friends despite the fact that there\u2019s something a little strange abo Jessamy Harrison is a somber, contemplative child who keeps to herself. She loses herself in her world and her imagination. Her mother, a writer originally from Nigeria, decides to take her family (which includes Jess and her English husband) to her home country where Jess learns about her mother\u2019s roots for the first time from her mother\u2019s family. There Jess meets a little girl named TillyTilly who becomes one of Jess\u2019 closest friends despite the fact that there\u2019s something a little strange about TillyTilly. As the story progresses, Jess realizes there\u2019s something disturbing about TillyTilly as strange things begin to occur in her world that makes the reader questions what\u2019s real and what\u2019s part of Jess\u2019 imagination. Part myth and part horror story, this was certainly an engrossing read. I don\u2019t think this story will surprise too many people, especially if you read much horror. However, that\u2019s true of most horror, and it\u2019s more about the atmospheric quality of the story than anything. There\u2019s not creepier than children interacting with ghosts/monsters in horror stories because of the innocence that most children bring to the story and the helplessness they can pull from the reader because they\u2019re a child involved in something that\u2019s much bigger and scarier than they can truly comprehend. Jess is no exception, and it\u2019s quite a harrowing ride to follow her as TillyTilly firmly plants herself in Jess\u2019 world. Bahni Turpin narrated this story. I\u2019d forgotten that I had this book when I reviewed Unholy Ghosts, which is narrated by Turpin as well, and I didn\u2019t have to get that one to sample her work. However, the style she used for the books couldn\u2019t have been more different. I was much more moved by her narration of this book, but her narration of Unholy Ghosts is nothing to laugh at either. She\u2019s a talented narrator, and her range and depth of character and emotion is amazing. I did think this story went on way too long. It felt like it would\u2019ve been a great short story. If it had been tight and concise this would\u2019ve probably resonated with me a little longer and the ending would\u2019ve had a great impact. I\u2019m floundering on how I feel about the ending a bit, but I think, if this had cut out much of the story, it would\u2019ve been more fitting. Still, this was a lyrical, haunting story that certainly left me mulling over for quite some time after I listened to it. ...more Salah satu buku yang saya perlu waktu yang lamaaa sekali untuk menyelesaikannya :D. Sebenernya bukan karena ceritanya tidak menarik, tapi ya\u2026 nyari waktunya itu. Dan buku ini beberapa kali tertinggal di ruangan kerja saya di kampus. Jessamy, yang biasa dipanggil Jess, adalah seorang gadis kecil berusia 8 tahun dengan ibu dari Nigeria dan ayah dari Inggris. Jess tinggal bersama keluarganya di Inggris. Suatu waktu, Jess dan keluarganya berlibur ke Nigeria, kampung halaman ibunya. Dan di Nigeria in Salah satu buku yang saya perlu waktu yang lamaaa sekali untuk menyelesaikannya :D. Sebenernya bukan karena ceritanya tidak menarik, tapi ya\u2026 nyari waktunya itu. Dan buku ini beberapa kali tertinggal di ruangan kerja saya di kampus. Jessamy, yang biasa dipanggil Jess, adalah seorang gadis kecil berusia 8 tahun dengan ibu dari Nigeria dan ayah dari Inggris. Jess tinggal bersama keluarganya di Inggris. Suatu waktu, Jess dan keluarganya berlibur ke Nigeria, kampung halaman ibunya. Dan di Nigeria inilah Jess bertemu dengan seorang gadis lain yang misterius, bernama Titiola. Jess kemudian memanggilnya Tilly Tilly. Tilly sepertinya hanya bisa dilihat oleh Jess saja. Begitu Jess pulang ke Inggris, ternyata Tilly juga mengikutinya. Semula Tilly hanya melakukan kenakalan biasa saja. Tapi lama kelamaan, apa yang dilakukan Tilly terhadap orang-orang di sekitar Jess membuat Jess semakin ketakutan. Apalagi dengan kenyataan bahwa Jess adalah satu-satunya orang yang bisa melihat Tilly, semua orang tidak mempercayai bahwa berbagai hal yang mengejutkan terjadi karena Tilly. Bab-bab awal berasa agak lambat. Tapi lama kelamaan, ketegangan terasa semakin meningkat. Apalagi saya jadi menebak-nebak, was Tilly for real, or she was nothing more than just an imaginary friend of Jess? Saat Tilly menjadi semakin dominan dan menguasai kehidupan Jess, the story gets creepier and creepier. Saya jadi kasian sama Jess yang ketakutan dan semakin putus asa menghadapi Tilly. Apalagi ketika ayahnya pun akhirnya menjadi korban Tilly. One of the things that I like about this book, is every now and then, the words are quite poetic. And I really like the things about Nigerian culture shown here. ...more What a complex book-- I am still absorbing it, even though I finished it a week or so back. And the fact that it was written while the author was still in school. Egads! I am humbled and awed. From the first minutes of meeting 8 year old Jessamy, who was hiding in the airing closet (we don't have those here, but I know what they are!) rather than play with other children her age, I was swept into the writing. Jess, is bright, precocious, unpopular and prone to screaming tantrums and is also the d What a complex book-- I am still absorbing it, even though I finished it a week or so back. And the fact that it was written while the author was still in school. Egads! I am humbled and awed. From the first minutes of meeting 8 year old Jessamy, who was hiding in the airing closet (we don't have those here, but I know what they are!) rather than play with other children her age, I was swept into the writing. Jess, is bright, precocious, unpopular and prone to screaming tantrums and is also the daughter of a Nigerian mother and English father. The differences between the two cultures weave in and out of the story. When Jess first meets TillyTilly in Nigeria, the situation is so odd, that you know it's not going to bode well. Something chillingly sinister about the little girl that Jess embraces as her best and true friend. Added to the mix is the interplay of a twin who died at birth, the Nigerian cultural traditions associated with twin death and a little girl caught between not two, but three worlds. She does indeed fly too close to the sun... Like MartiP, my heart ached for poor Jess, who loves Little Women. (I love how she thinks \"Beth's so nice you'd think Louisa May Alcott would have treated her better\" and then takes the time to scribble changes in the book to make it better.) I thought the second half of the book more confusing and less cohesive, but still- a very intense read. ...more I first read this novel in 2009 and was enchanted by it as evidenced by my initial review ( 2009 Book 97 ). So I was very pleased when I suggested it to our library reading group and members agreed that it seemed an interesting choice. On a second reading I was even more impressed by its beauty, strangeness and charm. After recently reading Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's Americanah I also felt that I was better able to appreciate The Icarus Girl 's theme of race as experienced by a young woman of mixed I first read this novel in 2009 and was enchanted by it as evidenced by my initial review ( 2009 Book 97 ). So I was very pleased when I suggested it to our library reading group and members agreed that it seemed an interesting choice. On a second reading I was even more impressed by its beauty, strangeness and charm. After recently reading Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's Americanah I also felt that I was better able to appreciate The Icarus Girl 's theme of race as experienced by a young woman of mixed racial heritage and the experience of encountering traditional African culture. The haunting - if that is what it was - by TillyTilly continued to be spine-chilling in its quiet menace. The kind of horror that plays on the primal fears of childhood. The novel was well received by the reading group. Everyone was impressed by the youth of the author (she was 17 and still in school when it was written) and there was curiosity about her later work. Luckily the library had a few of these on the shelf and these were then checked out by various members. I felt pleased to have suggested this for the group as I feel she is an extraordinary writer and it felt good to introduce her to a wider audience locally. ...more<---C>Helen Oyeyemi</---C>", "Title": "The Icarus Girl"},
