{"Comments": "I'm in the minority here: I didn't like <+++>Every Day</+++> , and the more I think about the book, the more it angers me.<---F> The main character, A, is Dr</---F>. Sam Beckett; A quantum-leaps from person to person, landing in a different host each day. A has no body of A's own, having been leaping since A was an infant at least. There are a few rules limiting the leaps: 1. A leaps only into a host of approximately the same age, and A appears to age in the same progression as a human (that is, A at one is mentally indis I'm in the minority here: I didn't like <+++>Every Day</+++> , and the more I think about the book, the more it angers me. The main character, A, is Dr. Sam Beckett; A quantum-leaps from person to person, landing in a different host each day. A has no body of A's own, having been leaping since A was an infant at least. There are a few rules limiting the leaps: 1. A leaps only into a host of approximately the same age, and A appears to age in the same progression as a human (that is, A at one is mentally indistinguishable from a human at one). At the time of this story, A is sixteen. 2. A's leaps have some sort of geographical upper limit; the only way for A to, say, leave the state is if the person A leaps into leaves the state that day. This limit plus the previous raise questions about what will happen when A gets to be, say, ninety. The number of suitable hosts will go down, and their geographical distance will increase. And what happens if a host dies while A is in possession? 3. A makes the leap at midnight each day. It isn't clear whether midnight is relative or absolute (i.e., would A leap at 11 P.M. if A were in the Central time zone rather than Eastern? Does A spend exactly twenty-four hours in each host?), but relative is implied. (Which suggests that one way for A to never leap would be to travel west fast enough. And what would happen if A possessed an astronaut on launch day?) 4. A never leaps into the same person twice. 5. A can \"access\" the memories of A's host,<---M> but only in regard to facts</---M>, not feelings. Also, A can't access foreign languages fast enough for fluency, which raises some interesting questions about the nature of language acquisition as related to A. In fact, all of these rules raise some interesting questions. And if you are the sort of person who thinks in these terms - here are the limitations, now what are the implications of those limitations? - then you WILL NOT like this book. (Another reviewer of this book referred to this frame of mind as \"logic-hobbled\". Thanks. Maybe I should refer to YOU as \"unimaginative\".) None of these questions get answered, and in fact, the book brings up more questions as it goes on (it turns out that there are other entities like A, and that it is possible to remain in the same host indefinitely. HEY WHAT? But no, this concept doesn't get explored much). Oh, and what do A's hosts remember about having hosted A? Well, it depends on what the plot needs. At first, A doesn't know what they remember, but then, a few days later, A has suddenly gained the ability to implant perfect false memories in A's hosts. I will say, though, that I actually wasn't all that bothered by the lack of answers. It was pretty obvious from the first few pages that Levithan isn't the sort of author who really cares about those details (I'm sure he would agree with Emerson*). So since I could tell I wasn't going to get the kind of story I would have liked, I instead focused on the story we did get. And the story we did get is...not good. There are two main threads of the book. The first is the story of A's Twoo Wuv, which is, naturally, Nice Guy apologism with a heaping helping of stalker apologism. Stalking is romantic, didn't you know? The second main thread is a series of after school specials focusing on the plights of various victim groups. It was tedious and predictable. Today we will learn about depression! Today we will learn about illegal aliens! Today we will learn about transsexuals! Today we will learn about obesity! Today we will learn about beauty! Also A doesn't really have a gender and so we will learn about that! And so forth. Didactic, agenda-driven, and boring . Back to the first thread. A falls in love with <---C>Rhiannon</---C>, the girlfriend of one of A's hosts. The passages describing her are classic Nice Guy crap - only A can see her secret sadness, only A can see what a kind and interesting person she is, only A can see that she wants to be \"part of the world\" (what does that even mean?), and OF COURSE only A can make her happy, because she is A's Twoo Wuv. So naturally, A begins stalking Rhiannon and plotting to get her and her boyfriend broken up so she'll be free to date A. You know, as Nice Guys do. It's even creepier because A is using A's hosts to do so. So not only is Rhiannon being stalked and having her privacy violated, but also, every person who serves as A's host gets violated as well. And we are supposed to sympathize with A. I can't even express how furious this makes me. A is not the victim here. Yes, A's existence sucks, but A is not the victim . The people A is possessing AND VIOLATING are the victims. A forces A's victims to skip school, miss tests, miss trips to Hawaii, lie to family, etc., etc. All things that A knows full well A's hosts don't want to do. A is POSSESSING A's hosts. In the beginning, A tries to be a good guest - go along for the day, don't do anything A's host wouldn't do - but A's stalkerish obsession with Rhiannon leads A to completely ignore A's own rules. The only, and I do mean ONLY, saving grace of this book is that A finally realizes that what A - with the complicity of Rhiannon OMGWTFBBQ?!? - is doing to A's hosts is GROSS AND WRONG AND EVIL and goes back to A's original set of rules. (After violating a couple more people first, of course.) One last complaint, and then I'm done. One of A's hosts, Nathan, who got particularly thoroughly violated, retained a partial memory of what had happened to him. He had been possessed and forced to do things he didn't want to do. He describes his experience as possession, and concludes that it must be the work of the devil. And the tone of the book regarding this kid is derision. \"That dumbass, how can he believe in demonic possession? A isn't the devil. What a dummy. And the people who believe him are even dumber.\" But the thing is, Nathan WAS possessed. He WAS forced to act against his nature by A, who had taken over his body. As part of A's conflict with Nathan, A discovers, as previously mentioned, that there are other entities like him. One such entity has taken over a religious leader and is claiming to help Nathan with his possession experience. That entity is pretty clearly malevolent. How is that entity's behavior different from demonic possession? And there are MORE entities like this out there. And yet, the narration thinks that people who believe in demons are stupid and deserve condescension. This is like saying, \"Well, ok, sure, I drink human blood to survive, and I combust in sunlight, and I have to sleep on a bed of my native soil, and I don't have a reflection, and there are other people like me out there, and some of them are malevolent, but VAMPIRES DON'T EXIST AND BELIEVING IN VAMPIRES IS STUPID AND YOU ARE STUPID FOR BELIEVING IN THEM.\" What?!?!? In conclusion, this book has thoroughly earned one of my rare one-star reviews. I don't recommend it at all. *\"A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of small minds.\" Something Emerson said, probably when a \"logic-hobbled\" buddy of his pointed out a gaping hole in one of his essays. ...more I am not kissing her because I want to, and I am not kissing her because I need to - I am kissing her for a reason that transcends want and need, that feels elemental to our existence, a molecular component on which our universe will be built. I have enjoyed Levithan's books in the past, but the magic that other readers found in Every Day just wasn't there for me . Many claims have been made about this book - that it is a clever \"what if\" science fiction novel, that it explores what it means to b I am not kissing her because I want to, and I am not kissing her because I need to - I am kissing her for a reason that transcends want and need, that feels elemental to our existence, a molecular component on which our universe will be built. I have enjoyed Levithan's books in the past, but the magic that other readers found in Every Day just wasn't there for me . Many claims have been made about this book - that it is a clever \"what if\" science fiction novel, that it explores what it means to be genderless, without a body, and without a family, and that it is an evocative love story. I honestly didn't get much sense of any of that. The story is about \"A\" - someone who wakes up in a different person's body and life every single morning. They have always been this way and have come to accept it. Until, that is, they end up inside the body of a boy called Justin and fall for Justin's girlfriend, Rhiannon. Suddenly, A's many lives revolve around locating Rhiannon and spending time with her. Hoping they can be together, and knowing that they can't. The strongest part of this book - for me - was the many small stories scattered throughout about the different lives A enters. They are fleeting, varied, but often quite interesting and touching. Beyond this, though, it was a disappointment. This same story written by many other authors would be called out for its \"instalove\" . However, I suppose Levithan writes poetically enough that A's relationship with Rhiannon seems deeper, when in reality A falls in \"love\" with her instantly (because she is a \"sad girl\" who wants to go to the ocean). Secondly, there is no explanation at all for the paranormal aspect. No attempt to address it, no consideration given to why A always wakes up in a body 4 hours or less away from Rhiannon and is always the same age. But I can suspend a lot of disbelief and I understand this isn't the kind of book that concerns itself with the \"hows\", so that wasn't even a major issue. By far a bigger issue for me was something that many people have praised the book for - the unique perspective from the point of view of someone who is genderless and without a life of their own. Wow, what an interesting idea, right? Indeed it is, and yet it is not explored at all. There is very little discussion of what it means to be male, female, both or neither . It is taken for granted that these things are meaningless and shrugged off. What a wasted opportunity to look at a fascinating subject! Some people look at Every Day and see a very different and beautiful book. I look at it and see another YA romance, framed in such a way that it can claim to be different without ever really breaking new ground. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube | Pinterest ...more What makes us fall in love--and what makes us who we are? Those are the questions at the heart of this novel, which tells a thoughtful, touching story that will surprise readers with its sentient literary style and gentle feeling. Everyone longs for human connection, but 16-year-old A.'s search for it seems to be a losing proposition. Every day, for as long as he can remember, he wakes up in a different body: sometimes as a girl, sometimes with a different ethnicity, sometimes with a different se What makes us fall in love--and what makes us who we are? Those are the questions at the heart of this novel, which tells a thoughtful, touching story that will surprise readers with its sentient literary style and gentle feeling. Everyone longs for human connection, but 16-year-old A.'s search for it seems to be a losing proposition. Every day, for as long as he can remember, he wakes up in a different body: sometimes as a girl, sometimes with a different ethnicity, sometimes with a different sexual orientation. He's long recognized the futility of trying to create lasting relationships, but everything changes when he meets Rhiannon, a girl who makes him want things he's never thought possible. This story reminds me of one of my favorite TNG episodes with a similar concept, and A. also follows a sort of prime directive in his self-imposed policy not to interfere too much in his \"host's\" life. He is, for the most part, a very likeable protagonist who doesn't wallow in self-pity or maudlin emotion, and it's interesting to see how skillfully the author retains A.'s sense of self and personality even within very different people in very different circumstances. One of my favorite things about this book is how we catch a glimpse of all the lives that A. touches; some of the manifestations are humorous, some of them are incredibly sad, and some of them are downright harrowing. There is also a tension and urgency in the story from various different sources, most notably in the form of someone who is relentlessly pursuing A. for his own dangerous reasons. The things that some more logic-hobbled readers (heh, I am coining that term!) won't like about this book are precisely what I do like about it. I like the book's more quiet, philosophical bent , and I actually like that we don't get any answers as to why this happens to A. Frankly, they're not necessary--this story isn't about that, and had the author attempted to invent specious reasoning for the wheres and whyfores of this concept, this would have been a very different book. A. obviously makes some mistakes in judgments--haven't we all?--and I do think his relationship with Rhiannon developed rather suddenly, as she's a fine enough girl, but I never really understood why he liked her so much! But for me, this all worked within the confines of this story concept. I accepted that in the course of living countless lives in A.'s lifetime, something in this girl at this time called out to him. And sometimes people just come along at the exact right time in your life when you desperately need it, and A. is very much in need of being loved. And perhaps even more importantly, he is very much in need of being acknowledged. \"The tenderness between two people can turn the air tender, the room tender, time itself tender. As I step out of bed and slip on an oversize shirt, everything around me feels like it's the temperature of happiness.\" Things become very difficult, of course, once Rhiannon learns about A.'s unique circumstance. It's hard to fault anyone for having trouble accepting the fantastical premise, as well as the reality of living with it, because after all, a big, big part of love relies on both the thrill and the comfort we find in another person's familiar presence. The struggle that these two have to reconcile what they want with what is realistic is poignant though ultimately, still very hopeful. By the end of this pensive, bittersweet novel, your heart may rend in two, because the purest form of love is perhaps when it involves some form of selflessness or self-sacrifice. But there's a great deal of beauty--and comfort--to be found in that, too. This is my first time reading <---A>David Levithan</---A>. But it won't be my last. This review also appears in The Midnight Garden . An advance copy was provided by the publisher. Recommended for: fans of A Certain Slant of Light , for those who were intrigued by the body-switching concept in Mercy , and for those who might've yearned for a more mature, tender feeling from Tempest . Win an Every Day ARC! And make cookies, too! We're giving away an Advance Readers Copy of this book on the blog . And hey, this review was powered by peanut butter cookies! By special request from Cassi you can download the free recipe card, too. ...more Can you imagine waking up every day in the body of someone else? Pretending to be them for a day? Being them for a day? Your soul traveling from body to body, restless. David Levithan is a very deep type of guy\u2026 on his way to becoming a philosopher, as I like to believe. He creates stories that tackle realities of modern life and depicts profound lead characters that have something intelligent and thoughtful to say about the world. At first, I wasn\u2019t convinced about the whole concept. I thought it Can you imagine waking up every day in the body of someone else? Pretending to be them for a day? Being them for a day? Your soul traveling from body to body, restless. David Levithan is a very deep type of guy\u2026 on his way to becoming a philosopher, as I like to believe. He creates stories that tackle realities of modern life and depicts profound lead characters that have something intelligent and thoughtful to say about the world. At first, I wasn\u2019t convinced about the whole concept. I thought it would make the characters feeble in personality or keep us from getting attached to them, somehow. Man was I wrong! This book isn\u2019t a compilation of short stories in the \u2018\u2018slice of life\u2019\u2019 style. It\u2019s way more than that. This reading felt to me like an introduction to the world and to people who inhabit it. Since we\u2019re honest here, I didn\u2019t love everything about it. The romance, most precisely, is what kept me from enjoying it fully and thoroughly, although I am pretty satisfied with the result. I mean, come on, there\u2019s such a cheesy love story! I know that Rhiannon is not the first girl A meets but, since he does meet her in the \u2018\u2018first chapter\u2019\u2019 (for us) it does feel that way (again, for us). The author tries to make her look especially angelic and special, but she\u2019s sadly the kind of girl we\u2019ve all met dozens (and more) times in our lives. But, well, it\u2019s not like I expected the romance to knock my socks off. And if that\u2019s not what you\u2019re expecting either, you should end up pretty pleased with the book, too. ...more I wake up the next morning in Beyonce's body. 3.5 stars. I think I hated this book, even though I was drawn into it like a moth to a flame. And by hate, I mean that I did like the book, but found myself frustrated because I was forced to question every single damn thing. There was something about the entire story that suffocated the hell out of me. My head hurt from trying to figure out how all of 'this' was supposed to work. My heart hurt from the presumed hopelessness of the situation. Yet, I wake up the next morning in Beyonce's body. 3.5 stars. I think I hated this book, even though I was drawn into it like a moth to a flame. And by hate, I mean that I did like the book, but found myself frustrated because I was forced to question every single damn thing. There was something about the entire story that suffocated the hell out of me. My head hurt from trying to figure out how all of 'this' was supposed to work. My heart hurt from the presumed hopelessness of the situation. Yet, I still kept reading. There has to be some talent hidden in the storytelling if I find myself continuing to work my way toward an ending of which I'm uncertain will be positive or negative. The closer I got to the end, the more worried I became. Yet, I still kept reading. If there was ever a book which would make for a great book club discussion, this would probably be it. The range of opinion would quite possibly be vast. People who tend to want specifics for every detail would pick everything apart, while the dreamers would want to imagine how to change the situation. So much happiness can only make me sad. Our main character in this book is never described as male or female. \"A\" is a being who wakes up every day in a different body. This person is the very definition of \"walking a mile in someone else's shoes.\" Mainly it's because A has never had shoes of his/her own. This is not my body, but it's the body she wants. I feel like a pretender. I often tend to put myself in the place of the lead character in stories and find myself wondering what I would do in the same situation. To be completely honest, I know that I could probably never survive a life in which I never was allowed to have at least one person to call my own - whether it was a parent, sibling, friend or lover. How could ANY one person survive waking up every morning in a different body without wanting to finally give up on life? Even knowing that A had always lived like this and knew nothing else, I kept wondering how A was not constantly envious of at least some of the people that A had inhabited. So of course, love would have to come in and complicate things. The connection between A and Rhiannon was bittersweet. Their friendship was a challenge every step of the way. I never want to stay. I'm always ready to leave. But not tonight. Tonight I'm haunted by the fact that tomorrow he'll be here and I won't be. I want to stay. I pray to stay. I close my eyes and wish to stay. Other than having to find my way out of a paper bag by the time I was finished reading, I don't have any major complaints other than one. At times, there did seem to be some repetition with a few of the author's opinions. I would have preferred the sexuality side of the story to have been a touch more organic with the surroundings. The characters were who they were. That should have been the beauty of it all - the varied cast of characters. I would have appreciated the variety much more if I didn't feel like I was being lectured to question my beliefs on sexuality (when I hadn't given any sort of opinion in the first place). This book felt like a bit of a soap-box at times. In the end, I was glad that I'd read about the journey of A, but found myself frustrated that he/she was a better person than I wanted him/her to be at times. Where was A's one selfish moment? When you get to keep nothing in life, would you for at least ONE day, choose to do what you wanted, even if it meant screwing with the path of someone else? I'm pretty sure that I would. I want to get back to her. I want to get back to yesterday. ...more The concept for the story is intriguing - A is a person that inhabits another person's body for one day. Sometimes A is a boy, sometimes a girl. A can inhabit different colors of skin and different shapes and sizes. A tries to minimize the impact of occupying the body. A is supposedly not judgmental. Whatever body A inhabits is fine with A. The story is, I believe, about acceptance. People come in all shapes, sizes, genders and orientations. There is no preference given the above mentioned catego The concept for the story is intriguing - A is a person that inhabits another person's body for one day. Sometimes A is a boy, sometimes a girl. A can inhabit different colors of skin and different shapes and sizes. A tries to minimize the impact of occupying the body. A is supposedly not judgmental. Whatever body A inhabits is fine with A. The story is, I believe, about acceptance. People come in all shapes, sizes, genders and orientations. There is no preference given the above mentioned categories. Biology does play a part in a person's makeup, as demonstrated by the chemically depressed girl A inhabited one day which was moving and empathetic. Very well written. Also well-written is the chemical dependence of the addict and physical pain A felt and the act of defying the urge by staying in the bedroom until the end of the day, enduring. Yet I feel like Leviathan is preachy about his own beliefs, pushing his viewpoint whether than just letting the reader think. The lack of understanding that gender might effect Rhiannon's attraction and the implication that she is wrong for that isn't fair. I'm only attracted to men. Does that make me a bad person? Even though being attracted to one gender is more common, A pushes the idea that it's wrong and judgmental which feels judgmental to me. Much of the storyline focuses on gender and orientation rather than acceptance of each person. Not that the author doesn't attempt this topic because he does. The protagonist inhabits a 300 lb. boy, an addict, a boy grieving for his grandfather, a mean girl, a football player, a deeply depressed girl. Yet the recurring theme tends toward gender being a societal construct rather than a biological reality. Love is love no matter what. There is lesbian love, homosexual males in a gay pride parade, a transgender female going through hormone changing injections with a girlfriend, a past where A fell in love when occupying a boy's body with another boy and began a romantic relationship yet I don't recall (although I may be mistaken) a healthy heterosexual relationship portrayed throughout the book. Additionally, the topic of religion is brushed upon but not in a favorable light. I did like the summation that religions share a great deal of commonalities because I agree with this especially when clarified with the differences being the history of their church and origin. But overall, humans believe in a higher power and a greater purpose. However, brushing religion under the carpet as being unimportant is rather condescending. Despite the commonalities of all religions, I'd wager that identifying with a religion is one of the top 5 characteristics of most people. Perhaps because my sexual orientation is just assumed, I don't typically qualify myself as \"heterosexual.\" The concept of this book is interesting, but overall it's a romance. It carries all the cheesy declarations of loves that come with that. If the book had focused less on the romance and been more well-rounded in it's portrayals of different belief systems it would've probably rated higher for me. It seems to want people to understand different viewpoints without fairly attempting to understand theirs. Faith being portrayed so inaccurately is very frustrating, especially when it's also unnecessary. ...more Wow! This was such a feast for my eyes and mind! My thoughts after finishing the book: SO GOOD! I didn't even have time to mark it as currently-reading, this is how lost into the story I've been. One of the best books I've read in quite a while! Full review: Romance aside, this story is about people .. All kinds of people in all kinds of scenarios, with different lives and in different environments. It's the most wonderful book about what it means to be human. It takes you on a journey around the Wow! This was such a feast for my eyes and mind! My thoughts after finishing the book: SO GOOD! I didn't even have time to mark it as currently-reading, this is how lost into the story I've been. One of the best books I've read in quite a while! Full review: Romance aside, this story is about people .. All kinds of people in all kinds of scenarios, with different lives and in different environments. It's the most wonderful book about what it means to be human. It takes you on a journey around the world not physically but emotionally, it travels through space and bodies and it talks about so many taboo subjects that you can't even imagine.. This, my dears, it's a real piece of art! \u201cI wake up thinking of yesterday. The joy is in remembering; the pain is in knowing it was yesterday.\u201d You can learn a lesson from almost every chapter, you can be in the body (and somehow even the mind) of all kinds of people, struggling with their problems, creating others, trying to fix the unfixable or to keep untouched the precious moments in their lives. You learn that actions have always consequences, that when you change things you have to assume the responsibility for doing so; you get glimpses into the head of so many types of people and at the end of the day not only you can learn a thing or two from it, but you can really become a better person. It's not that the concept is entirely original (I remember seeing when I was young a movie series quite similar to this) but the amount of research needed for this story and the perfection with which it has been implemented turns this book into a real gem. It's fresh, it's well written, it is addictive and so full of precious content. There are few books that have left an imprint on my life; this is definitely one of those. I love this guy - I mean the author - he is so smart and open. He talks about so many things with conviction, but without trying to make you believe the things he does; he gives you the good and the bad in all situations and I must confess that reading this book (and being just for a bit in his mind while doing so) felt really, really good. Now about the characters... I'll start with A and Rhiannon. As you should know from the book description A (which is a name, by the way) does not have a body. He is just a soul spending each day on a different body. We think of him as a boy but in fact he has no gender, and each day he can be a boy or a girl, having no control over where his soul might wake up in the next morning. He doesn't know why it happens, so don't try to find out because this is not what this story is about. All days are similar - he wakes up, tries to find out what he can about the person he has to be that day, and tries not to mess up things for that person, because the lives he lives are borrowed and he has no right to ruin them. \"I only have a day to give - so why can't it be a good one?\" One day is different though. He is impersonating one guy called Justin and falls in love with his girlfriend. Justin is not a good person and he is not good for/to Rhiannon, but wouldn't A want to be Justin for the rest of his life? Wouldn't he want to wake up in the morning and still be here, wouldn't he want to have Rhiannon in his life forever? It's a day that changes him, it's a day that changes everything.. And so the story starts.. For you it might feel like A starts liking Rhiannon too quickly, it might feel like insta love, but try to picture A's life, try to imagine a life when every single day is different, a life where you meet a person today but you might never be given a second chance.. How long it would take for you to give away your heart, how long it will take for you to fall in love? Day by day A. gains more information about her, he tries to see her again and with everything he learns about her day after day he gets to care more, to truly love her - for the way she thinks, she acts, she feels. \"My life doesn't add up to anything. Except for an afternoon, it did.\" Truth being told, all A needed was to belong, he needed something palpable in his life and so he found Rhiannon. She is for him a symbol of everything he can't have. It seemed like love at first sight, but in his world that's the only kind of love he can get. There is no way to meet again someone and to relive a day such that he could fall in love in the usual way. So I didn't mind him focus all his attention on this girl that has stolen his heart and that he can't possibly have because every day he becomes someone else. In a way, this is how Romeo and Juliet should play around in our days (the concept, not the Shakespearian play), with the entire universe against our sweet couple. Some will love their story, some probably won't, but don't think about the whole book as a romance, because you'll be missing a lot... that's the reason all this started, yes, but there are many other amazing things about it that will steal your heart. \"This is what love does: It makes you want to rewrite the world. It makes you want to choose the characters, build the scenery, guide the plot. The person you love sits across from you, and you want to do everything in your power to make it possible, endlessly possible. And when it\u2019s just the two of you, alone in a room, you can pretend that this is how it is, this is how it will be.\" There were so many other characters that are worth talking about, so many destinies that A changed, so many lessons to learn from. There were happy moments, and sad ones, there are tons of quotes that will make an impression for sure, there are so many great ideas hidden between the pages, the lines, the words in this book.. Nothing feels like it has been 'spilled' at random in this sea of magical thoughts, and there are not enough words in the world for me to tell you how wonderful this story was to me. I loved the stories of every person A impersonates during his travel.. Drug addict, fat person, geek, gay, transgender, homeschooled, mean girl, rock boy, suicidal girl (and so on, and on, and on) - there was a selected group of people that can/will leave an impact on you. You might not relate to any of them, but you can understand them all. They all speak through A.'s voice and you might ask yourself if this is the author telling you life-changing stories, or the characters are really alive talking to you - they are so realistically portrayed. I remember a chapter that I liked a lot: There was a drug addict that needed badly to take a doze and A kept fighting it, fighting his body's needs, he tried to stay focused, to think of a way to make it through the day, he tried not to let the body win.. It was such an emotional chapter and it gave insights into the power of the mind, something I've thought about over the time. On each day, either the body was weighting on A, or the feelings were be pressing on him. He could feel the sorrow, the despair, the addiction but also the happiness, the calm, the hope and the love... It was such a beautiful orchestra of emotions playing in front of you - one that you can focus on each individual instrument and their beautiful, heartwarming music. There are also references regarding morality, some social issues are talked about and even Christian beliefs are considered. Every scene has its own emotion, every person gives you something to think about, every moment is important because there's always some meaning behind the tale. And because I don't know in how many other words to tell you that I loved this book to pieces, I will simply end on a nice note: \"I turn back. I keep turning back to see her. Even when there are walls between us. Even when there are miles between us. I keep turning back. I keep turning in her direction\" ...Just like I'll always turn back to this story. Happy midnight reading! * This review can also be found at ReadingAfterMidnight.com ____________________________________________ Blog (EN) | Facebook | Twitter | Tumblr | Bloglovin' | Blog (RO) ____________________________________________ ...more 2.5 stars Do you ever read a book and think, \u201cAm I reading the same thing as everyone else\u201d? This is exactly how I felt with Every Day . All the reviews I\u2019d seen were full of praise. I was expecting it to be amazing. It was not. It's a shame because I liked the concept of \u201cA\u201d waking up in a different body each day, content to do so until falling in love with the girlfriend of one of the bodies. Intriguing, right? Unfortunately, the execution didn\u2019t work for me. The writing itself was gorgeous and t 2.5 stars Do you ever read a book and think, \u201cAm I reading the same thing as everyone else\u201d? This is exactly how I felt with Every Day . All the reviews I\u2019d seen were full of praise. I was expecting it to be amazing. It was not. It's a shame because I liked the concept of \u201cA\u201d waking up in a different body each day, content to do so until falling in love with the girlfriend of one of the bodies. Intriguing, right? Unfortunately, the execution didn\u2019t work for me. The writing itself was gorgeous and there was more than one quotable line, but the plot and characters drove me nuts. A was The Worst, spending the whole time talking about being good but actually doing terrible things. There\u2019s no build up of this \u201cgood\u201d aspect before it gets compromised, making it very hard to like the protagonist. I didn\u2019t buy the connection between A and Rhiannon (hello, insta-love!), and the way A obsesses over her is really quite icky. I know A changes bodies every day, but there was not much personality there beyond that obsession. Oh, and judging people. A judges everyone. Like Rhiannon for not being able to always see past the physical. One of the themes of the book is that you love the person, not the body. The notion of biology being separate from identity is an interesting one, and could have been fascinating to explore, but Every Day only goes as deep as A getting angry if Rhiannon felt a bit weird seeing a girl\u2019s body. Which is completely understandable because, yeah, sexuality is fluid, but if you identify as straight you can\u2019t be expected to suddenly find the same sex attractive (and vice versa). And I know they say love is blind, but you still have to be attracted to the person you\u2019re with. A judges Rhiannon pretty harshly for liking some bodies better, which I thought was unfair. A is also super judgemental of Nathan, one of the bodies used, when he feels, well, used. A had snuck out of Nathan\u2019s strict parent\u2019s house to go to a party to see Rhiannon, lying to Rhiannon, drinking, staying too long and driving too late, ending up with Nathan waking up on the side of the road having no idea where he is or what has happened. I know A can\u2019t control going into different bodies, but seriously? That\u2019s abduction. The idea that so many bodies were being used against their will was quite discomforting. Particularly when A wanted to get more physical with Rhiannon. Not cool. But A\u2019s worst judgement is reserved for one of the last bodies described in the book. A wakes up inside an overweight teen boy, and turns on so much judgment that Simon Cowell looks like an open-minded puppy dog in comparison. A treats the teen as lazy, disgusting, stupid and\u2026 wait for it\u2026 shallow. Yep. Coz apparently being obese means you can\u2019t have \u201cemotional depth\u201d. It\u2019s really disappointing, because it could have been an opportunity to explore the very deep and complex emotions that often go along with weight problems. Instead, it reinforces prejudices against overweight people rather than using it as a chance to undermine them. Rhiannon is not a lot better than A. She's pretty two-dimensional. Some of the bodies A spent a day in felt more developed than her. She accepted the A thing way too quickly and fell in love too easily. She was incredibly passive. A judges (there\u2019s that word again) Rhiannon\u2019s boyfriend for being horrible to her, but A doesn\u2019t treat her a whole lot better, and she goes along with it. She doesn\u2019t have any agency. Even at the end, A is in control of what will happen to Rhiannon \u201cnext\u201d. So not romantic. It was a shame that the bland, unromantic love story was the central plot, when the concept had so much potential. There is a bit of a subplot about people being after A, but it develops slowly and sporadically before finally fizzling out. Despite the beautiful writing, Every Day was a very average read. ...more Once upon a time, a high school-aged girl attempted to make lasagna for her three siblings and their parents. As both the youngest child and as someone with quite the reputation as a calamity machine of Amelia Bedelia proportions, she had a lot to prove. When her family came home and sat down to dinner, everyone remarked that the lasagna tasted...okay, but off. They asked her how she made it and she recounted the correct steps and then remarked that it took her a really long time to chop all tha Once upon a time, a high school-aged girl attempted to make lasagna for her three siblings and their parents. As both the youngest child and as someone with quite the reputation as a calamity machine of Amelia Bedelia proportions, she had a lot to prove. When her family came home and sat down to dinner, everyone remarked that the lasagna tasted...okay, but off. They asked her how she made it and she recounted the correct steps and then remarked that it took her a really long time to chop all that garlic. She used three cloves of garlic, right? Yes...well, what is a \"clove\" anyway? *blank stares* As it turns out, our poor lasagna-maker used three heads of garlic instead of three cloves. We ate that lasagna, and it tasted grosser with each bite, but we consumed it anyway. To me, Every Day is like eating a lasagna made with three heads of garlic, only the lasagna is a book and the garlic is agenda. The first thing you should know before deciding whether to read this book is that it is wangsty contemporary romance masquerading as paranormal and/or science fiction. (it isn't science fiction at all .) You cannot go into the book expecting an explanation of any of the paranormal elements in the book because you won't find any. A (that's the character's name) wakes up in a new body every day. The bodies are always the same age as A and always within the mid-Atlantic region of the US. Why the temporal and geographical bounds? No one knows. Many readers seem wowed by the existential discussions A goes through about living in a new body every day: What is it like to be genderless? What is it like to have no family? What is like to have no idea where you came from and to not have a body of your own? All of these questions are fascinating but minimally explored. Instead, A spends a day in the body of a disaffected teenage boy, falls for the boy's girlfriend in that one day, and then spends every subsequent day screwing with the lives of the bodies A inhabits by trying to get back to Rhiannon. Additionally, A is upset that Rhiannon can't see the \"person\" behind the ever-changing body. I mean, shouldn't everybody be attracted to a person's soul rather than their outward appearance? The idea behind this book is almost overwhelmingly exciting to me. I get giddy imagining the possibilities when every day is completely different and there are no repercussions for the main character. (it's quite another story for the bodies A is inhabiting) This premise has been done to some degree by Replay and Groundhog Day but the idea was tweaked a bit here. The thing is, in both of those cases, the characters experimented with doing fun and interesting things, learning skills, trying new things and A doesn't really do any of that. It is interesting that Levithan created a character who seems to have body swapped with a conscience for 16 years before it all went down the drain for a sudden infatuation. I truly cared about A's existential crisis. I could've read an entire book of just contemplation and reflection on each of the lives A encountered. Instead, the plot basically goes as follows: A wakes up in a body. We learn a few things about that person. A figures out how close Rhiannon is. A checks email to see if Rhiannon has written.* A figures a way the two of them can meet up. Conversation ensues to try to get Rhiannon's on board with dating A. Repeat. *The asterisk is necessary to me because there is subplot about religious fanatics coming after A for possessing teenagers. I was not a fan of this storyline overall--it felt forced in that for a large portion of the novel, the only mention of this plotline was random emails from one of the bodies A inhabited that felt contrary to what we knew of the character. Then the ending, which is helped along by this plotline, went off the rails. To me, and don't forget that I am just one reader (and also representing the minority opinion), the book's pacing was solid for about three-quarters and then it drank a few too many Red Bulls. I'm all for diversity in YA (and all) fiction but there is a huge difference between subtly spreading your beliefs and preaching. I honestly don't know if I could be in love with someone if I had no clue what gender they would be the next day. I'd like to hope I could be accepting of that but I definitely wouldn't judge someone who couldn't. Not everyone is attracted to both genders and at times, it felt like A was treating Rhiannon as dense for not hopping right on that train. This idea definitely led to some interesting discussions with real-life friends of mine about hypothetical situations and how we would deal with x, y, and z. There was a lack of balance in the discussions in the book. If you want to read review after glowing review of this book, just go the book page on Goodreads here . There are tons to choose from. When it comes down to it, this book just didn't work for me. I love the idea of it, and Levithan's writing style wasn't the problem. My issues were with the plot and the characters. I swapped back and forth between the audiobook and the ebook and I definitely prefer the ebook. The narrator does a good ambiguously-gendered voice for A but a lot of the other voices sounded too similar and Rhiannon's voice was a bit too Valley Girl-ish for me to take seriously as a drop-everything-and-obsess love interest. If Levithan wrote a book entitled Sketches from a Body Jumper's Album in the style of Turgenev's Sketches from a Hunter's Album , I'm fairly positive it would be one of my favorite books. I would love to read day after day of body/life experiences. But as it is, I can't give Every Day more than 2.5/5 stars. Read this and other reviews at The Readventurer . ...more 3.5 stars Once upon a time, I dreamt of being a different person, of waking up one day in a different person\u2019s body, preferably of that who was a lot better, if not perfect. (Beyonce\u2019s did occur to me too.^^) David Levithan brought this fantasy to life through Every Day and it felt like it aimed to harshly snap the reader back to reality. It was like a not so kind moralistic tale that tells you to be happy with who you are, what you have and for the people who surround you. Be thankful that ton 3.5 stars Once upon a time, I dreamt of being a different person, of waking up one day in a different person\u2019s body, preferably of that who was a lot better, if not perfect. (Beyonce\u2019s did occur to me too.^^) David Levithan brought this fantasy to life through Every Day and it felt like it aimed to harshly snap the reader back to reality. It was like a not so kind moralistic tale that tells you to be happy with who you are, what you have and for the people who surround you. Be thankful that tonight when you sleep, you are the same person tomorrow- that you\u2019ll have today, tomorrow and many more tomorrows with the ones you love because there is this teeny tiniest possibility that somewhere out there, someone\u2019s life is as ephemeral as that of A\u2019s and to tell you honestly, there is nothing I would envy of his (or her) life. And if the mention of this person A sparked your curiosity, I suggest you read the book because I won\u2019t be saying anything more than what\u2019s already said. What I\u2019ll tell you is this, Every Day has been in my tbr wish list for a long time now and after reading it, I could say that I\u2019m both satisfied and disappointed. Satisfied because of the intriguing premise and gorgeous writing but also disappointed because it was an exhausting read. Although it was very entertaining, the tone was generally sad and in the end, there were more questions than answers although I\u2019m sure that\u2019s the very point of the story. \u201cThere will always be more questions. Every answer leads to more questions. The only way to survive is to let some of them go.\u201d My biggest quandary about the story is the theme on love. I get that this is a story of unconditional love but when you use a concept so far-fetched, so incredibly impossible to embody what it means to love unconditionally, it kind of loses the point. Just saying.^^ Overall though, I still think this book is worth all the hype, worth all your time and money and I would really love to see this make its way to the big screen and I would definitely want to read the sequel.^^ For more positive, more enthusiastic reviews, do check out Drew\u2019s and Lola\u2019s who are consequently celebrating their birthdays this month. Drew on June 12 and Lola on June 23. Happy Early Birthday, my wonderful friends. I hope you have the best time on your special day. <3 <3 <3 ...more 4.5/5 stars This was just a beautiful book. WOW. Why do I remember a time spent driving around all day with wind and music in my hair as if it was yesterday, but can\u2019t recall one detail about my high school graduation? Some days stick. Others fade away. A life mystery...I hope forever remains a mystery. One day at a time. Live every day to the fullest. Be in the moment. Day to day. Today is a new day. See you tomorrow\u2026..Are just a few of the common expressions that Mr. Levithan blows up and almost redefines in the pages of Every Day. A book tha Why do I remember a time spent driving around all day with wind and music in my hair as if it was yesterday, but can\u2019t recall one detail about my high school graduation? Some days stick. Others fade away. A life mystery...I hope forever remains a mystery. One day at a time. Live every day to the fullest. Be in the moment. Day to day. Today is a new day. See you tomorrow\u2026..Are just a few of the common expressions that Mr. Levithan blows up and almost redefines in the pages of Every Day. A book that forced me to reflect and take stock of my days in a whole new light. \u201cA\u201d wakes up every day in a different body and life. Moving from girl to boy, family to family, town to town, day to day. Always moving on after one day. It is the only life he has known. New parents, rooms, physical appearance, and surroundings every day. Good days and bad days. Painful days and happy days. Each day passes with new experiences for \u201cA\u201d, but never adding up to a past or history to hold on to and see grow over time. Can you imagine saying goodbyes every day? To survive, A swears to never get attached or involved in the individual lives he inhabits for the day. Until he meets Rhiannon. A girl that changes A\u2019s day to day life and perhaps much more. An instant spark, chemistry, and \u201cenormity\u201d between two souls is so rare in life, so when it does happen\u2014good gods\u2014hold on tight! A is Justin, Rhiannon\u2019s boyfriend for the day, when he meets and falls for Rhiannon\u2019s energy, spirit, and beauty. They click. The universe seems to say be happy today together. \u201dThe moment you fall in love feels like it has centuries behind it, generations\u2014all of them rearranging themselves so that this precise, remarkable intersection could happen. In your heart, in your bones, no matter how silly you know it is, you feel that everything has been leading to this, all the secret arrows were pointing here, the universe and time itself crafted this long ago, and you are just now realizing it, you are just now arriving at the place you were always meant to be.\u201d For the first time, in a long time, A needs more than just one day. He longs for more with Rhiannon. Is it possible to fall in love with someone that has no idea who he/she will be from one day to the next? How can love last under such conditions? How does love last from day to day? Very bittersweet and inspiring thoughts and emotions ran through me with A\u2019s struggle for love. A journey that will impact each reader and heart differently. We all see, feel, and experience the world through different eyes and hearts. So I wonder what you will see in these pages. One of my favorite parts of this book was A\u2019s spirit. With care, integrity, and a sense of responsibility, A sets out each day to survive and move through the time without interfering, disrupting or connecting with the people and places around him. Do you realize how many people really do live like that in life? Not connecting with anyone or anything. Breaks and terrifies my heart. The fact I fell in love with A without an actual physical appearance or place to focus or hang on to is jaw-droppingly brilliant! Levithan infused A\u2019s life with a spirit and love that jumped right into my own heart and blood. A contagious energy filled with inspiration and push to look for the good in life each and every day. :) Now please prepare for fan-girl gushing in 3, 2, 1\u2026. I am a Levithan girl. The man makes me happy! The love for words and language appears in every page and description which seems to fit perfectly in my reading heart. He is my number one word man! Oh, the words! The dictionary is never far when reading a Levithan story. :D But it\u2019s more than just his word choice. A feeling lives in his words. A wish-you-well-in-the-world type feeling. The way he looks at the world and portrays it on the page pumps and inspires new life and energy in my heart. Spending time in a David Levithan world is magic. I feel better after visiting. Listen to the way he describes playground swings\u2014\u201cI head to the swings and hang in the air for awhile.\u201d Or the approaching fall time\u2014\u201cColor is right around the corner.\u201d Or pain as \u201cbeing left in a room after the door has been slammed shut\u201d. Those lines seem so simple, but heart-achingly beautiful to me. Pure reading magic! *sigh* Oops! I swooned on and on there for a bit. Hehe\u2026.Back on track now. :D Every Day is a book to savor and experience. Each voice, character, and day continues to hit me over and over the more I think about the words and story. A book filled with the power of love, loss, friendship, family, communication, and the bonds that tie us all together. We all have full days and \u201cblank days\u201d, but I do hope you take time to enjoy this world. Highly recommended. This story will be one of those days and memories that stick with you. :) ...more Yerle bir olmu\u015f gibi hissediyorum :') \u0130ki sat\u0131r bir \u015fey yaz\u0131p hemen gidicem \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc kitab\u0131 okumak i\u00e7in yapmam gereken ne varsa erteledim ve \u015fuan nefes almadan haz\u0131rlanmam laz\u0131m. Ak\u015fama do\u011fru \"Ay biraz okuyay\u0131m, zaten yar\u0131n yola \u00e7\u0131k\u0131caz yan\u0131ma al\u0131r\u0131m.\" d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcncesiyle ba\u015flayan eylemlerim, yerimden kalkmadan kitab\u0131 bitirmemle sona ermi\u015f bulunmakta. Her \u015feyi \u00e7ok sevdim ama bahsedecek vaktim yok dedi\u011fim gibi ama \u015funa de\u011finmeden ge\u00e7emicem, bazen yazarlar felsefi d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcncelerini, ili\u015fkiler, hayat, a\u015fk ile ilgi Yerle bir olmu\u015f gibi hissediyorum :') \u0130ki sat\u0131r bir \u015fey yaz\u0131p hemen gidicem \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc kitab\u0131 okumak i\u00e7in yapmam gereken ne varsa erteledim ve \u015fuan nefes almadan haz\u0131rlanmam laz\u0131m. Ak\u015fama do\u011fru \"Ay biraz okuyay\u0131m, zaten yar\u0131n yola \u00e7\u0131k\u0131caz yan\u0131ma al\u0131r\u0131m.\" d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcncesiyle ba\u015flayan eylemlerim, yerimden kalkmadan kitab\u0131 bitirmemle sona ermi\u015f bulunmakta. Her \u015feyi \u00e7ok sevdim ama bahsedecek vaktim yok dedi\u011fim gibi ama \u015funa de\u011finmeden ge\u00e7emicem, bazen yazarlar felsefi d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcncelerini, ili\u015fkiler, hayat, a\u015fk ile ilgili hissettiklerini de eserlerine aktar\u0131yorlar ama \u00e7ok ama \u00e7ok az\u0131 bunu do\u011fru \u015fekilde yapabiliyor. Alakas\u0131z bir \u015fekilde birden felsefe yapmaya \u00e7al\u0131\u015fan o kadar fazla yazara rastlad\u0131m ki. \u0130\u015fte David Levithan bunu m\u00fckemmel bir \u015fekilde yapm\u0131\u015f. Okudu\u011funuzda kendinizle ili\u015fkilendirece\u011finiz ya da \"Offf \u00e7ok do\u011fru s\u00f6yl\u00fcyo bu adam ya.\" diyebilece\u011finiz m\u00fckemmel yerler vard\u0131. \u00c7ok fazla paragraf\u0131, c\u00fcmleyi i\u015faretledim. Bay\u0131ld\u0131m bu kitaba. ...more WARNING: POSSIBLE SPOILERS Actual Rating: 4.5 stars Despite what you might think from my rating, I really, truly loved this book. I want to give this book a full five star rating so much, but, regardless of how much I think this book deserves a five star rating, and how much I want to give it a five star rating, I just can't bring myself to give it that. A has an indeterminate gender, an indeterminate family, and even indeterminate name. Each and every day, A finds himself waking up in a new body WARNING: POSSIBLE SPOILERS Actual Rating: 4.5 stars Despite what you might think from my rating, I really, truly loved this book. I want to give this book a full five star rating so much, but, regardless of how much I think this book deserves a five star rating, and how much I want to give it a five star rating, I just can't bring myself to give it that. A has an indeterminate gender, an indeterminate family, and even indeterminate name. Each and every day, A finds himself waking up in a new body, experiencing a day in the life of the body he's living in. One day, A finds himself in the body of Justin - a rude and careless sixteen year old boy. What A thinks will just be another day in the life of a high school jock turns out to be completely different, when A meets Justin's girlfriend, Rhiannon. Soon enough, A finds himself falling in love with Rhiannon, and wants to be with her every day, but, given the circumstances, he's unable to. So arises the question: can you be loved by a single person, and be in love with a single person, if you're a different person every day? I've heard great things about David Levithan, so when I saw this book show up on my Goodreads feed, and on NetGalley the same day, I decided to request it, given the extremely intriguing synopsis and the large amount of hype the author's been getting from trusted friends of mine. Right from the start I was unable to put this book down, and I read the first half of Every Day in one sitting. The premise is thoroughly interesting, the main character is kind (though more on him soon), and the love interest is likable in every way, and it was extremely easy for me to empathize with her. Just by reading the synopsis, I was able to tell that there was going to be insta-love (sort of?) in this book. (One question: do you consider it insta-love if the love isn't entirely mutual at first?) So yes, A falls in love with Rhiannon within an hour or two of meeting her, but still, the relationship between A and Rhiannon is so well developed that it doesn't feel like insta-love. That being said, while there was a presence of insta-love (or not, depending on your answer to the aforementioned question), the insta-love is not the reason I'm giving this book a rating of 4.5 stars and not 5. The one and only reason I can't bring myself to giving this book five stars is because of the narrator, A. A is sweet and kind in every way imaginable, but there is a very large portion of this book - if not the first three quarters of it - where he turns into the obsessive love interest we see much too often in YA. At times, I just found A to be creepy, and way too overly obsessive towards Rhiannon. He says that he loves Rhiannon frequently, and every morning, when he wakes up in a different person's body, he finds out what town his current body lives in and determines how far away that town is from the town in which Rhiannon lives so that he can drive to Rhiannon's town and see her. Maybe if this were something that had only happened in the first quarter of the book I'd be giving Every Day a full five stars, but his obsessiveness towards Rhiannon took up way too large of a portion in Every Day . Like I mentioned earlier, Rhiannon is an extremely likable character, and she was incredibly easy for me to empathize with soon in the book. Rhiannon is in a relationship with Justin, who treats her horribly. Knowing that there's more to Justin, and hoping that he'll go back to how he used to be when they first started dating, Rhiannon sticks with Justin, even though he doesn't treat her well. Then, A comes into her life and treats her with respect and love - how she's always wanted to be treated - and she finds herself at a crossroads. (That does not mean there's a love triangle, so don't worry.) Levithan's writing is refreshing and crisp, and it makes for easy and quick reading. As well as that, the plot is brilliant and is executed amazingly, and the pacing is perfect. The plot twist(s) are, for the most part, unpredictable, and the book ends with a bang, and then, following the bang, me crying. Brilliant, sweet, and heartwarming, Every Day will be a book that will linger with me for a while, as well as the amazing and emotional relationship that is A and Rhiannon's. This was my first book by David Levithan, but I can assure you that it will not be my last. And if Every Day is a true testament to Levithan's writing, I cannot wait to read his other works. ...more David Levithan formed the perfect hypothesis, but he failed to design an experiment, plan an observation or conduct a research and quench the bits which mattered the most. Instead, he took the easier route out and declared the result unreachable when it could have, so easily, been created right out of the never-emptying vaults of his mind. Sometimes, an author gets a brilliant idea, an idea that is out of this world, untried, new and unique and awaiting to challenge him and his readers alike. Dav David Levithan formed the perfect hypothesis, but he failed to design an experiment, plan an observation or conduct a research and quench the bits which mattered the most. Instead, he took the easier route out and declared the result unreachable when it could have, so easily, been created right out of the never-emptying vaults of his mind. Sometimes, an author gets a brilliant idea, an idea that is out of this world, untried, new and unique and awaiting to challenge him and his readers alike. David Levithan had had such an idea occur to him: an idea that is an instant appeal to any audience curious enough. An idea that has so many countless possibilities and doors open for exploration and knowledge and rides of humongous thrills and fictious amusement. An idea which draws its power from the intriguing absurdity of it. Once you spot the synopsis, you can not not wonder what the story is about and would be like (unless you're some form of an oppressor of fantasy or just plain dismisser of anything one-of-a-kind). Even if you wouldn't read, you'd still wonder... and then perhaps turn that wonder into a plan to find out what it's all about. This was all that I felt when I picked up Every Day. Plus the whole sweet whiff of romance sounded so warm and nice. Every single dedicated chapter of the book was a sword digging deeper and deeper into my Nerve of Tolerance. You seem to be a man of wide-margined and unbound imaginations, but Mr. Levithan, I hope you realize the kind of opportunity you passed up on by leading this book into a direction completely regretful and extremely far from where I pictured it would be going. This book, the magnificent idea it harbours, could have turned into such a SWELL fiction, or an urban fantasy or any other tale of sorts. But you, Sir, you left all the questions unanswered and plunged your eye-brow raising idea into the deepest seas of confused emotions and a muddle of love. I never got what I was actually looking for in the book. I was looking for the paths lighting ways deeper into the theory you created, woe is me. There should be a mention, however, of David Levithan's writing style which is unexpectedly compelling and has a tone of 'factualness' about it - a tone I find quite endearing, hence making my regrets of the story going downwhill inflate in size. No exaggerations in his words or portrayals of destestable and time-wasting thoughts. Read this only if you're a reader who cares not for logic, solutions, depth of exploration of ideas, characters with definite genders and a sense of morality and a story of sound closure. A treasure of an idea gone to utter waste - right from the beginning. Kathryn's review sums up all my questions and opinions on this novel pretty nicely: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/... ...more Every Day is a peculiar book with a very original theme - a book about a character who wakes up in the body of a different person every day. One day A , our main protagonist, might be a boy who treats his girlfriend badly, another day A might wake up as a girl addicted to drugs ... but whatever the body A awakens in is like, A's mind always remains the same. A grows with the experiences, learns the same things others do ... only A has to adapt to different environments, A has to learn that there Every Day is a peculiar book with a very original theme - a book about a character who wakes up in the body of a different person every day. One day A , our main protagonist, might be a boy who treats his girlfriend badly, another day A might wake up as a girl addicted to drugs ... but whatever the body A awakens in is like, A's mind always remains the same. A grows with the experiences, learns the same things others do ... only A has to adapt to different environments, A has to learn that there is nobody who will ever accompany A on the way through a difficult life which will never allow A to settle down in one specific body, no matter how hard A longs for such an experience. \u201cI am a drifter, and as lonely as that can be, it is also remarkably freeing. I will never define myself in terms of anyone else. I will never feel the pressure of peers or the burden of parental expectation. I can view everyone as pieces of a whole, and focus on the whole, not the pieces. I have learned to observe, far better than most people observe. I am not blinded by the past or motivated by the future. I focus on the present because that is where I am destined to live.\u201d Isn't it incredibly sad to imagine having to live a life the way A has to? And yet A managed to find a way to embrace the possibilities life has to offer, to accept this fate and still remain A's own self. A is genderless, though the topic of gender has been ignored by Levithan throughout most of the book, and even if the topic was close to being brought up, the author quickly managed to drift around it. Levithan's presumable uncomfortability with discussing gender as a part of A's identity disappointed me, just like the author's decision to let another plot point fall aside at the end of the novel - a plot point which had originally raised my interest, only to be dropped almost immediately. This is a story about a person's love for somebody else, a love which cannot be broken even by something as insurmountable as what A has to experience. Usually, I'm not a fan of romance stories. A lot of them are either more about the sexual aspects (a trend fed by recent successes such as Fifty Shades) or are cheesy and a tad too unbelievable to be true (hello, Mr. Sparks). David Levithan jumped on the bandwagon with Nicholas Sparks and created a perfectly cheesy love story, with the girl A falls in love with being the kind of person all of us have already met - there was nothing surprising or too interesting about her. Yet, for some reason, the author made me not mind this fact at all, and I found myself enjoying this book immensely after my initial doubts about whether or not Levithan would succeed in making me care about A's fate. He did. Apparently, there are a lot of mixed opinions for this novel, so if you are interested in the concept of the story, I'd recommend giving it a try. Fast-paced and built upon an interesting premise, this will probably not turn out to be a book you'll regret having read. ...more This was one of those books that I knew I was going to give 5 stars from page one. It's just brilliant . I loved every single thing about it. I loved the writing style, characters, story, how it dealt with sooo many important themes... just everything. I especially enjoyed reading from A's point of view. I loved his way of thinking so much. And it really made me think about life, and some things that I haven't thought about before. And I love when a book does that. Can't wait for to sequel to come This was one of those books that I knew I was going to give 5 stars from page one. It's just brilliant . I loved every single thing about it. I loved the writing style, characters, story, how it dealt with sooo many important themes... just everything. I especially enjoyed reading from A's point of view. I loved his way of thinking so much. And it really made me think about life, and some things that I haven't thought about before. And I love when a book does that. Can't wait for to sequel to come out, 'cause I'm going to read it the day it does. ...more What would it be like to wake up in a different body every day? And what would it be like to be in love with a person who changed every day? What makes us fall in love--and what makes us who we are? These are the questions at the heart of this novel... a touching story. Everyone longs for human connection, but 16 year old *A's* search for it seems to be losing proposition. Every day he wakes up in a different body, ( sometimes a girl. an athlete, or different ethnicity, obese, wealthy, middle cla What would it be like to wake up in a different body every day? And what would it be like to be in love with a person who changed every day? What makes us fall in love--and what makes us who we are? These are the questions at the heart of this novel... a touching story. Everyone longs for human connection, but 16 year old *A's* search for it seems to be losing proposition. Every day he wakes up in a different body, ( sometimes a girl. an athlete, or different ethnicity, obese, wealthy, middle class, bi, black, white, drug addict, Academic overachiever, meticulously neat, a person with suicidal thoughts, .... or any combinations of these attributes). *A's* awareness that he/she is never himself/herself. *A's* world changes when he/she falls in love with Rhiannon. Things become difficult, of course, once Rhiannon learns of *A''s* unique circumstance. It's hard to fault her. Part of the comfort of loving a person is a person's familiar presence.... And even their physical attraction. The struggle that these two must reconcile what they both want is poignant yet still very hopeful. By the end of this bittersweet novel... your heart may feel split... because pure love involves compromise, selflessness, and sacrifice. Yet there are many lessons to be found - comfort-- and beauty! *A* is a teen hero. He reminds us that no matter how bright, well adjusted socially, athletic, talented, ... no teen is 100% comfortable in their own skin at all times. It's a period of constant change, growth and development. There are qualities that this young 16 year old has that is inspiring to us all: he/she is unbiased, nonjudgmental, considerate, and loyal. He makes mistakes too...yet... he still seems like a wonderful person...,(despite some crappy people he has been). From 'learning... he try's to be helpful if he notices something going terribly wrong. He wants to be a better person from all he has experienced. Rhiannon is an important character. More controversial. Not as likeable ( on the surface), as *A*- but I felt I understood her. I understood what she was struggling with. I don't think she wanted to 'have' to be made to feel less than-- if her morals were not at the same high standard as *A*. At times it seemed *A* was much too obsessed with Rhiannon... Yet, if you were 16, never fully having your own life, and falling hard in love for the first time-- ( always being the stranger.. the different one...almost a ghost...because nobody really knows who you are), might not you behave a little obsessively for the person you loved? Wonderful book... It was great to step outside of societal roles and experience the world from someone who was gender neutral.... but also didn't have the comfort of stability in his daily life. I've already started the second book: \"Another Day\". David Levithan prefers to call it a twin book. Closely related but having its own identity. The book can stand alone. ( it's not necessary to have read this book, but I'm glad I did). ...more WARNING: THIS BOOK IS NOT FOR EVERYONE.... With that said, I put this book as one of my favorites. When I finished my feelings were all over the place, that I needed time to collect them. Now its been months and this book still makes my heart beat faster, my palms get sweaty, and I am eager to see where \"A\" will be next. You see this is a tale like no other. David Levithan has messed with my head, in a way that I am grateful for. He made me think and choose between ideas and feelings I never thou WARNING: THIS BOOK IS NOT FOR EVERYONE.... With that said, I put this book as one of my favorites. When I finished my feelings were all over the place, that I needed time to collect them. Now its been months and this book still makes my heart beat faster, my palms get sweaty, and I am eager to see where \"A\" will be next. You see this is a tale like no other. David Levithan has messed with my head, in a way that I am grateful for. He made me think and choose between ideas and feelings I never thought I would want to choose from. I don't know how this works. Or why. I stopped trying to figure it out a long time ago. I'm never going to figure it out, any more than a normal person will figure out his or her own existence. After a while, you have to be at peace with the fact you simply are. There is no way to know why. You can have theories, but there will never be proof. This is a question that \"A\" never really had to think about, he was whatever he would be for that day. Never really needed to know in way, because he could be a drug addict, high school jock, or a shy young girl. For everyday is a new day for him. Everyday day is a mystery. Everyday is a new place. Everyday is a new home. Everyday is new views. Everyday is a new body. Everyday is new mind. And everyday \"A\" just goes through motions. Never really attaching to his host, just tapping enough to get through the day. Day after day, this was his life. Then he wakes up in Justin's body. Justin is not special, he is a grungy self centered adolescent teenager. But todays he's \"A\", and today \"A's\" life will be forever changed. For today \"A\" meets Justin's girlfriend Rhiannon. Most days Justin treats Rhiannon like crap, but today \"A\" is Justin and as much he tries to stick to the plan, he can't. All it took was one day, one person to make him think to want more for himself. For the first time in his 16 years of existence he questions everything. Why is he like this? Is there more like him? is he really a she? More importantly how to stay connected to the one you love when your someone different everyday, and how does she fall in love with you? How does she meet you and not the body you are currently? Like I said, this book is very unconventional and very forward thinking. You might not be able to see past \"A's\" exterior to see him, but if you read openly I promise you that you will. Forget how, what , where, or who... it's the only way to allow your brain to be able to absorb the beauty that is this book. After you still might go back to your same beliefs and thats ok. But I promise it will be a book you will never forget, because \"A\" will leave his mark on you. I am the walrus. I'm nobody-who are you? Let all the dreamers wake the nation... Before we say goodbye, she kissed me with everything she has. And I try to kiss her back with everything I want. This is the nice note, I can't help thinking. But just like a sound, as soon as the note hits the air, it begins to fade. ...more This was magnificent . It was a heart-stopping read. It was too realistic without being non-fiction. A boy who changes bodies every day. A girl who's helplessly in love with someone who doesn't return her love. What can these two have in common? Everything and nothing. It's a heartbreaking love story told from the perspective of a boy who's only ever known impermanence. Every day he wakes up in someone else's body, he gets to be that person, he gets access to their memories and to their lives and This was magnificent . It was a heart-stopping read. It was too realistic without being non-fiction. A boy who changes bodies every day. A girl who's helplessly in love with someone who doesn't return her love. What can these two have in common? Everything and nothing. It's a heartbreaking love story told from the perspective of a boy who's only ever known impermanence. Every day he wakes up in someone else's body, he gets to be that person, he gets access to their memories and to their lives and no one realizes what's happened when they wake up the next day. They only get that vague feeling that yesterday was an uneventful day. He calls himself A. This is the only way he's going to be able to hold on to some part of himself. The only way to keep remembering that he's not inexistent, the only way to remind himself that he's a real person, a human being who cannot do anything about the way his life is. \"It's just - I know it sounds like an awful way to live, but I've seen so many things. It's so hard when you're in one body to get a sense of what life is really like. You're so grounded in you who you are. But when who you are changes every day - you get to touch the universal more. Even the most mundane details. You see how cherries taste different to different people. Blue looks different. You see all the strange rituals boys have to show affection without admitting it. You learn that if a parent reads to you at the end of the day, it's a good sign that it's a good parent, because you've seen so many other parents who don't make the time. You learn how much a day is truly worth, because they're all so different. If you ask most people what the difference was between Monday and Tuesday, they might tell you what they had for dinner each night. Not me. By seeing the world from so many angles, I get more of a sense of its dimensionality.\" If you read this make sure that you are ready for the world to change forever. Be sure that you want your perspective of life to be changed. Make sure that you're not retrogressive. Read this and get ready to be changed. ...more Why do you read books? I read books because they transport me somewhere else. I go on adventures, fall in love, grieve, laugh... I find best friends, and sometimes I lose best friends. This is the first time that I've read a book and actually felt alone... lonely. Imagine, you have nobody of your own. Every day you have a new mother, new father, new life... you drift from body to body, without any real roots or anything that you can call your own. The MC, 'A', kept trying to convince Rhiannon, and Why do you read books? I read books because they transport me somewhere else. I go on adventures, fall in love, grieve, laugh... I find best friends, and sometimes I lose best friends. This is the first time that I've read a book and actually felt alone... lonely. Imagine, you have nobody of your own. Every day you have a new mother, new father, new life... you drift from body to body, without any real roots or anything that you can call your own. The MC, 'A', kept trying to convince Rhiannon, and us as the reader, that 'A' lived a full life. That 'A' had experiences and a world larger than an average person because 'A' got to live 6000 different people's lives. But how could you? How could you really live without any true connections? And when you read a book about a character that wakes up every day in the body of someone new, what ending do you wish for? 'A' is in love. For the first time 'A' has told someone what kind of life 'A' leads. (Please note that I continue to say 'A' because 'A' has no stated gender. One day A's a male, one day A's female. 'A' just is.) Do you hope that 'A' finds a way to keep a body, so that 'A' can live life with Rhiannon? 'A' does deserve everything that an average everyday individual has. 'A' is a good person, and up to meeting Rhiannon, 'A' has made sure to leave each host body with the least amount of impact possible. 'A' has a conscience, and feels guilt when something about the hosts life is affected by the visit. So, while you can't help but hope that 'A' gets to live life, you also hate the idea that 'A' would give up that integrity to accomplish it. It's an awkward position, as the reader, because you want a happy ending, but you don't want to compromise the moral compass that has guided 'A' thus far. Already 'A' is doing things more and more questionable out of love for Rhiannon. You don't blame 'A'. Remember, 'A' wants to be , and 'A' IS a person who does things that 'A' normally wouldn't out of need for a connection, 'A' aches for it. It reminded me a bit of Stolen: A Letter to My Captor in that way. You know how it SHOULD end, but it's not necessarily how you want it to end. Am I making it sound depressing? Because 'Every Day' wasn't depressing, per se. It was... a book about hope. Well, actually, it was more about hoping for hope. And it was about selflessness. And it made me think, and likely will leave an impression on me long after I finish this review. (Thanks Stacia, you were right. This definitely was a 'Wendy' book.) 4.5 stars ...more Buy this book on: | Amazon | Barnes and Noble | Audible | BookDepository (FREE WORLDWIDESHIPPING) | 3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). Woah. This book really made me think. What would you do, if the person you loved woke up as a different person every single day??? Could you love them??? What would you make of their appearance?? Even if they didn't really have one???? These questions constantly arose while listening to this audiobook. Btw, if you sign up for an Buy this book on: | Amazon | Barnes and Noble | Audible | BookDepository (FREE WORLDWIDESHIPPING) | 3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). Woah. This book really made me think. What would you do, if the person you loved woke up as a different person every single day??? Could you love them??? What would you make of their appearance?? Even if they didn't really have one???? These questions constantly arose while listening to this audiobook. Btw, if you sign up for an Audible 30 day free trial here , you get a free audiobook !!!! I really questioned myself, my beliefs, and how I would act if I were in the same situation as Rhiannon and A. Thank you, David Levithan, for making me think so deeply!!!!! As for the actual book, I really didn't care that much about Rhiannon. I really enjoyed the book when she wasn't there. I felt like the fact that A woke up in a different body every single day and had to go about his/her life as normally as possible was super intriguing already . Throwing a romance in the mix of this was a little bit too much for me. Personally, I think I would've enjoyed this more if this was a self discovery novel versus a romance. There is so much you can do with the lives you end up having to live and the lives you could possibly change by living in them for a day. I wish that there was more of this, because that was what I found most interesting and gripping. My rating system : (I do use half stars.) 5 - I do not use the 5 star . Not because a book might not be worthy, but because a book is never perfect. 4 - I loved it! There weren't too many flaws, and I had no trouble getting through it. (A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.) 3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less. 2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it. 1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it.... ...more I immediately started sobbing after closing the book because I am just devastated to be leaving it behind me. I can definitely imagine how A must feel every day when A wakes up as someone else. My heart hurts. This book was phenomenal. Absolutely phenomenal. I'm terrified to read the sequel bc of just how much this book meant to me. Also- RHIANNON. She was just.. Amazing. David Levithan wrote her so well. I feel like I fell in love with her right alongside A. I JUST CAN'T WITH THIS BOOK. I'm fee I immediately started sobbing after closing the book because I am just devastated to be leaving it behind me. I can definitely imagine how A must feel every day when A wakes up as someone else. My heart hurts. This book was phenomenal. Absolutely phenomenal. I'm terrified to read the sequel bc of just how much this book meant to me. Also- RHIANNON. She was just.. Amazing. David Levithan wrote her so well. I feel like I fell in love with her right alongside A. I JUST CAN'T WITH THIS BOOK. I'm feeling so many feels. ...more I have a complicated relationship with this book. On the one hand, the premise is SUPER GREAT. He bodyswaps every single day, but I really could've used even more bodyswapping. UGH BODYSWAPPING, I WANT TO ROLL AROUND IN IT. And I read the whole book in a day, which, like, I barely even finish books anymore, so that's impressive, and there is definitely huge talent in writing something where the reader wants to know what happens next. The storyline with Nathan was greaaaaaat (except for the letdo I have a complicated relationship with this book. On the one hand, the premise is SUPER GREAT. He bodyswaps every single day, but I really could've used even more bodyswapping. UGH BODYSWAPPING, I WANT TO ROLL AROUND IN IT. And I read the whole book in a day, which, like, I barely even finish books anymore, so that's impressive, and there is definitely huge talent in writing something where the reader wants to know what happens next. The storyline with Nathan was greaaaaaat (except for the letdown at the end of A not wanting to know more about Poole -- UGH, SPEC FICTION HEROES, PLEASE ALWAYS WANT TO KNOW MORE) and several of the bodyswapping minidramas were super compelling (the depressed girl, the siblings toward the beginning) and frankly, I wish the whole book had been like that. However. The romance is the blandest bland thing in all Blandtopia, and unfortunately it's pretty much the A plot here. The only reason I could see that A loves Rhiannon so much is that she seems to him like a vulnerable waif who needs to be rescued from her allegedly horrible boyfriend. (A is the biggest Nice Guy TM you've ever read, it's gross.) Speaking of which, A is allegedly raceless and genderless, but I am using the male pronoun because he comes across suuuuuuper like a white dude, because it's pretty rare for any other demographic to be as condescending as he often is. (Haha is that mean? It's true, anyway.) Which, also, he talks about being attracted to a PERSON not a GENDER in that annoying way that smug bisexuals sometimes do when they believe that their uncontrollable sexual preference is more open-minded and so morally superior to other people's uncontrollable sexual preferences. Ugh. I think the unexamined privilege of the author is what damages the book the most for me. He's trying to write a book about what it would be like to exist without the external things that define all of us (race, gender, sexuality, family, etc) but he's a white dude and he writes like a white dude. I mean, how could you not? But I don't think he really understands what it's like to have people NOT automatically take your opinions as more important than other people's. And I think it comes across as though the default state of being human -- what's normal, what everyone would be like if they didn't have a body -- is like a white man. Which our culture assumes all the time, so it's not weird he would unconsciously think that, but it makes for a much less interesting book. Anyway. On the plus side, gay and trans people exist and are treated respectfully. (He gets suuuuuuper preachy about gay rights, though. Nothing he says is wrong, except the tone of wanting a cookie for having, like, a bare minimum of human decency.) On the minus side, the chapter where he bodyswaps into a fat person is the most horrifyingly offensive thing I've ever read. So, um, it's a mixed bag, is what I'm saying. ...more H\u00fcz\u00fcnlendim, g\u00f6zlerim doldu. \u00c7ok g\u00fczeldi ya. Favorilerim aras\u0131na girdi. :'( This review can also be found on My Fiction Nook . I don't even know where to start. This book made me cry, it was so good. Every day a different body. Every day a different life. Every day in love with the same girl. The MC is a person of indeterminate gender, looks and even name, who wakes up in a different body every single day. 'A', as s/he calls him/herself has been like this since birth. Every morning, 'A' has to check whether the body currently inhabited is male or female, check the location This review can also be found on My Fiction Nook . I don't even know where to start. This book made me cry, it was so good. Every day a different body. Every day a different life. Every day in love with the same girl. The MC is a person of indeterminate gender, looks and even name, who wakes up in a different body every single day. 'A', as s/he calls him/herself has been like this since birth. Every morning, 'A' has to check whether the body currently inhabited is male or female, check the location and then try to make it through the day without drawing notice and without getting the host into trouble. For sixteen years, this has been the life s/he knows. 'A' is resigned to this non-life and never questions whether there is a different way, or why the constant body changes happen. It just is. Then 'A' wakes up in the body of Justin, a typically grumpy and uncaring sixteen year old jock. Just another day, it seems, until 'A' sees Justin's girlfriend, Rhiannon. Justin hasn't been very nice to Rhiannon lately, but to 'A', she is amazing and s/he soon falls in love with her. They spend a wonderful day out by the beach, and 'A' shows Rhiannon (as Justin) how she should be treated. Of course, the next day, 'A' is in a different body again, but is unable to forget Rhiannon. From that moment on, 'A' has only one goal each day - to reconnect with Rhiannon, in whatever body may be inhabited that day. And this leads to the book's underlying question: Could you love someone whose gender, name, looks and entire identity changes every single day? The book gripped me from the first few pages. The premise itself is utterly unique yet thought-provoking. Things we take for granted, like family and friends, people that know us - 'A' has none of that. There are glimpses of it with every body s/he inhabits, but the next day, those families and friends are gone again, replaced with a new set. \"I will never have a family to grieve for me. I will never have people feel about me the way they feel about Marc's grandfather, I will not leave the trail of memories that he's left. No one will ever have known me or what I've done. If I die, there will be no body to mark me, no funeral to attend, no burial. If I die, there will be nobody but Rhiannon who will ever know I've been here.\" From the start, I felt sorry for 'A' - what a lonely existence it must be to never really connect with anyone, to live life without love, without friendship, without family. Upon meeting Rhiannon, 'A' becomes a little obsessive. Not only is s/he in love for the first time, but considering the circumstances, the ever-changing bodies and locations make it extremely difficult to stay in touch with her. For the very first time, 'A' tells someone about the body switching. For the first time, 'A' trusts someone with that story. And as s/he falls more and more in love with Rhiannon, 'A' becomes almost a creepy stalker. Upon waking up, s/he first checks gender, name and then location, just to find out how far from Rhiannon s/he has woken up. With a burning need to see her every day, 'A' gets his hosts into all kinds of trouble - from waking up by the side of the road (without any idea how they got there) to skipping school to purposely missing a flight to Hawaii to upsetting strict parents - 'A' seems willing to risk it all just to have Rhiannon. Rhiannon is a very normal teenage girl, likeable, sweet, caring. Her boyfriend Justin doesn't treat her very well, but Rhiannon keeps hoping that he'll go back to the nice boyfriend he was in the beginning. Until that day 'A' inhabits Justin's body and shows her what real love and appreciation is like. Once she finds out about 'A's predicament, she slowly allows herself to open up to him and fall for him as well, yet struggling with the ever-changing bodies and genders. She's the one who asked for his name. She's the one who for the first time knows the truth. The author does a fantastic job exploring the emotional fragility of the main characters' relationship, the struggle Rhiannon faces, the despair and pain 'A' lives with and the fallout from the disregard s/he displays towards the hosts. And I was immensely impressed with the character growth. At the end, 'A' does a very unselfish thing for Rhiannon that completely redeemed him in my eyes, at which point I found myself with tears on my face. I do hope there's some kind of follow-up to this book. Because, dang it, I want answers. I NEED answers. I need to know what happens next. David Levithan's writing is crisp, precise and yet much in the tone of a teenager, albeit one who has accumulated a bit too much wisdom too early, due to the circumstances. I was immediately drawn into the story and unable to put this down. This was my first book by this author, but if this is an indication of his writing, I must now check out his other books. This story will stay with me for a long time. Absolutely terrific. I received a free ARC from the publisher, Knopf Books for Young Readers, via Netgalley. A positive review was not promised in return. ...more 4.5 stars...but I round up cuz I'm nice like that. I can see how this book won't be for everyone. It's thought-provoking and doesn't really give any clear answers. It's depressing and fatalistic. It's poignant and stays with you, much like Before I Fall or Never Let Me Go did for days after I read them. Some people don't want think, they want a fluffy escape. This is not a fluffy escape. In fact, in some ways, the book made me feel trapped in a metal box. But don't let the unusual subject matter - 4.5 stars...but I round up cuz I'm nice like that. I can see how this book won't be for everyone. It's thought-provoking and doesn't really give any clear answers. It's depressing and fatalistic. It's poignant and stays with you, much like Before I Fall or Never Let Me Go did for days after I read them. Some people don't want think, they want a fluffy escape. This is not a fluffy escape. In fact, in some ways, the book made me feel trapped in a metal box. But don't let the unusual subject matter - the fact that a \"person\" called A spends every day in a new body, whether it be a female of male - deter you from reading this book. It's unique and challenging and oh-so beautifully written. It's a story about life and the taken-for-granted continuity of our days, our friends, our family. It makes you re-examine choice, free will and personal judgement. It's about treating each day like it's your last and doing what you can with the time you've got. And at it's heart, it's a love story that pushes boundaries. Love that tries to conquer all. Love that creates selflessness. Love that will live on, even if just in one's heart. My only complaint (hence the .5 being knocked off) is that I like my answers. I wanted to know more about the \"others\" and \"Reverend Poole.\" I wanted to be told just why things happened. But like most things in life, we don't know why. We just have to make the best of it. That said, if Levithan did want to write more about A, or even Rhiannon and Alex, I'd totally be up for it :)This is one of those instances where I would love to take his plotting notebook from him and flip through it to his rationing for what A was...I mean, assuming he even knew. I'm going to pretend Levithan knows a lot of stuff we don't. ...more *4.5/5 stars This book was absolutely fantastic, just another in the long line of amazing books I've read by David Levithan this year. The end wasn't quite what I wanted it to be, but I loved A so much and absolutely loved the story. Ya sen muhte\u015femsin adam. Al b\u00fct\u00fcn y\u0131ld\u0131zlar senin olsun. Daha fazla David kitab\u0131 verin bana. n'olur di\u011fer kitaplar\u0131 da bir an evvel \u00e7\u0131ks\u0131n \uff3c(^o^)\uff0f\uff3c(^o^)\uff0f", "Title": "Every Day"},
