{"Comments": "First of all, I like the author. I started with the Mystic Saga and have been working my way down the chain of his novels outside of that series. Second,<---M> I am a Christian</---M>, so you can take my review or leave it. However, I will not be reviewing my personal world view and judging the book's quality basic on that (as it seems almost all of the negative reviews have done). However, this IS A CHRISTIAN novel with Christian themes. So those who're shocked by this need only to read some of the reviews First of all, I like the author. I started with the Mystic Saga and have been working my way down the chain of his novels outside of that series. Second, I am a Christian, so you can take my review or leave it. However, I will not be reviewing my personal world view and judging the book's quality basic on that (as it seems almost all of the negative reviews have done). However, this IS A CHRISTIAN novel with Christian themes. So those who're shocked by this need only to read some of the reviews and they will find this out. If it annoys you to have Bible references and Christian values to drive the development of the characters, do not read it. The characters in the book are Christians trying to live according to that life style. I probably wouldn't be interested in a book that glorified Marxism. Likewise, people who're aggressive toward a Christian world view may not be interested.<---F> Thanks</---F>. Now read on. As I have come to expect from the author, the book starts out in a sort of confusing manner. Making us unsure of just who the main character is, and exactly what the story is about initially and sets up a shifting scene break. To me, half the \"thriller\" and \"mystery\" emits from the authors style and wording rather than a \"who-done-it\". We begin with a man who is trapped in a subway with a young adult with no memory of how they got there. Subways scream past without stopping and the two cannot find a way out. Then scene cut. Brian, a postal worker, hears a new-born screaming from a apartment that he is delivering a letter to and he finds a single teenage mother who is grossly neglecting her child. He \"bargains\" his way to help the baby, and in the mean-time the two become friends and eventually get married. The rest of the book is literally scene-by-scene of their lives together. The story is filled with hardships, happiness, love, and through it all, Jesus. The family does most of their struggles in trying to live life according to the Bible. The whole story takes place over the course of twenty years, which is something I really like in my stories. You get to see the characters grow in overcoming personal demons, loss, gain, and share the fruits of their labors. The author's superb use of dialogue and believable, fallible characters grips the reader and made me genuinely interested in what happened to them. I smiled or felt sad when the situation called for it. We re-visit the scene in the subway with the boy (who is obviously the boy in the rest of the story), and the man (who is not identified until the very end), as well as short scenes of a very confusing conversation between two characters from the main story. It all comes together at the end for a big heart jerker that does NOT make you feel all warm and fuzzy, nor does it really offer any closure. It is not a bad ending, in fact I cannot remember reading a more powerful gut-punch ending. Most stories end with the characters feeling all good about what they've done, and gain some closure. If you feel close to the characters at all, this is not the case. I liked the characters. I felt close to them, and could relate to their struggles. Some could find the style of writing to be confusing or unconventional. I found it stimulating and is one of the reasons I like the author. I encourage anyone to read this book, but it is not for everyone. However, the quality of <---A>Scott</---A>s writing, along with the theme and style made for a very good, page-turning read. ...more This is literally the most powerful and surprising book I've read in my entire life. I know that's a crazy sounding claim, but it's a fact. I never in a million years would have guessed the sort of ending that this book has. Talk about a shocker that should be #1 in the suspense category. I really really liked it until the end. If I knew it was going to end that way, I would not have read it! This is the best book I ever read... and wrote! Surprisingly Good No spoilers in this review. Four stars from me are high praise, five are for truly outstanding books. Firstly, as other reviewers have said, this is a Christian story, a very Christian story, with many Biblical quotes and talking about Jesus. It is very well written with no grammatical errors, and good syntax, which makes for very easy reading. I have just finished reading this for the second time since I bought it and noticed several things I obviously missed the first time,and w Surprisingly Good No spoilers in this review. Four stars from me are high praise, five are for truly outstanding books. Firstly, as other reviewers have said, this is a Christian story, a very Christian story, with many Biblical quotes and talking about Jesus. It is very well written with no grammatical errors, and good syntax, which makes for very easy reading. I have just finished reading this for the second time since I bought it and noticed several things I obviously missed the first time,and which really had an impact on me. I had no trouble with the different time frames as they were clearly headed at each changeover, and I found it a very effective device. Thankfully, I have never been in the position of the main character in the story and I was devastated the first time I read it as it built up to the climax. On the second reading I knew what to expect and although it was still powerful, I was able to read it with more discernment and understanding. I have no hesitation in recommending this book, but please, if you don't like books with a very strong Christian theme running through it, don't read it and then give a bad review based on that. ...more When I received a copy of \"<+++>Mommy's Choice</+++>\" written by first time author (when this book was first released): Scott Curtis McElhaney, I truly wasn't in the mood to read. But curiosity got the best of me, and I picked it up and read the back, and decided I needed to find out more. So I started reading. The next thing you know, it was nightfall and I couldn't put it down. I didn't want to go to sleep; I wanted to find out exactly what it was I was missing. So I read it, until I finished it that nig When I received a copy of \"<+++>Mommy's Choice</+++>\" written by first time author (when this book was first released): Scott Curtis McElhaney, I truly wasn't in the mood to read. But curiosity got the best of me, and I picked it up and read the back, and decided I needed to find out more. So I started reading. The next thing you know, it was nightfall and I couldn't put it down. I didn't want to go to sleep; I wanted to find out exactly what it was I was missing. So I read it, until I finished it that night. Scott Curtis McElhaney really opens your eyes, and makes you think. Not many people can actually do that for you anymore with their writings. It has a very unique and unpredictable ending, to which one cannot really and truly write about, because it will ruin it for you, the interested party. You honestly need to grab yourself a copy, so you too- can be drawn in; unable to put it down, and open up your mind and heart! The book helps you look and relate with the relationship between a Mother and Son, and as the title states, \"Mommy's choice.\" The characters are really people you and I can relate to! It also can help you understand Christianity, and the need to have a relationship with our Lord. This book is something everyone should read, especially teens. It will help you, to think before you make your choice. Perhaps this story just might touch the right person, or even persons, and help them through a tough decision that could change their life forever; it is in fact-an eye opening book, which you will not be able to put down! However, as with most anything, this book could possibly cause controversy within a crowd. The book is also written in the Christian format, and helps you relate to Christianity, and understand becoming and the need to be a Christian as well. It is truly a wonderful Christian Suspense Novel. This book enlightens you on Childbirth, and Abortion, and choices. Truly, it is eye opening. And I truly mean, eye opening. Something you may never think about. And perhaps you should. Those who are Pro~Choice and Pro~Life, will definitely agree, this book needs given to the youngsters of today, to make them think even before they make mistakes. Just a thought, and a good one I might add. \"Mommy's Choice\" can be found at the following locations: www.Amazon.com , www.Target.com , www.BarnesandNoble.com , and Borders.com On a more personal note, I have found Amazon.com is always very descent with their pricing on just about anything! This is a small paperback- and this small paperback, had a huge impact on me! I give this book a ten on a scale of one through ten! Thank you, Scott Curtis-for a wonderful story, to open our minds, hearts and eyes, all in one read! God has truly blessed this writer with talent! ...more This book is a great thriller/suspense. I did not expect the ending at all. In the beginning of the book Stephanie was a young single mother and had no coping skills or so it seemed. A savior came and helped her out. Married her and provided a life for her and her young son. Over the course of 20 years you get a great view of the Christian family life that they live. With flashes to the diner when Stephanie is talking to Dave, who she remembers but he has not idea who she is. And flashes of 2 yo This book is a great thriller/suspense. I did not expect the ending at all. In the beginning of the book Stephanie was a young single mother and had no coping skills or so it seemed. A savior came and helped her out. Married her and provided a life for her and her young son. Over the course of 20 years you get a great view of the Christian family life that they live. With flashes to the diner when Stephanie is talking to Dave, who she remembers but he has not idea who she is. And flashes of 2 young men talking in what seems to be some sort of waiting place. I was surprised by the ending. ...more AWESOME story. While much of the book is devoted to the nice friendship developed between a mother and her son over the years, the intensity of the original mystery is never lost. Something is wrong the whole time and Stephanie knows it and the reader never forgets it. This book is put together nicely and the ending is well worth the trip. This is the first book I read by Scott McElhaney. It sounded really good & a page tuner but it was confusing & borng. I got 12 percent into the book & stopped becase the more I read the more uninterested I got. I purchased this book when it was free but I don't think its worth paying 99 cents for. An interesting book even if it get's clear after one third what will be the reason forthe strange thing that happens to Stephanie. Indeed a christian book. Simple but powerful This book seemed almost too good to be. But I fell in love with the characters. The ending is devastating. A must read. Confusing format.<---C>Scott  Curtis</---C>", "Title": "Mommy's Choice"},
