{"Comments": "This was an excellent book, based on <---A>Barton Gellman</---A>'s Pulitzer Prize winning 2008 investigations and writings on National politics.<---F> As a Washington Post writer, Mr</---F>. Gellman had access to many in Cheney's inner circle and the Bush White House to put together this informative description of the Vice President's role in setting the tone and direction of the Administration. We've seen political cartoons over the past eight years with Dick Cheney as the ventriloquist, pulling the strings and putting This was an excellent book, based on Barton Gellman's Pulitzer Prize winning 2008 investigations and writings on National politics. As a Washington Post writer, Mr. Gellman had access to many in Cheney's inner circle and the Bush White House to put together this informative description of the Vice President's role in setting the tone and direction of the Administration. We've seen political cartoons over the past eight years with Dick Cheney as the ventriloquist, pulling the strings and putting words into the mouth of the Bush puppet sitting on his knee. A harsh depiction, perhaps,<---M> but as this book shows</---M>, there were some reasons for how that view became popular. How much of that stereotype was true, and how much was false was hard to know, until this book became available. This book answers a lot of those questions. It truly filled in a lot of gaps in the my understanding of the inner workings of the Bush Administration. Cheney had widely been reported to be the most powerful Vice President in American history. Few, if any, recent books explore the dynamics between the President and Vice President. Gellman does, and paints a clear picture of Cheney and his power, consistent with everything we've heard and read over these past eight years. The book also talks of other key members of Cheney's team, like David Addington, who was so central to many of the more unpopular and controversial initiatives of the Bush years. Gellman also points out some of the few in the Administration who were able to stand up to the powerful Cheney / Addington team such as Deputy Attorney General James Comey. (Comey was acting Attorney General who did not give in to the pressure from the White House to sign off on \"illegal\" spying when Ashcroft was hospitalized). If you're interested in understanding how Bush, who entered the Office as a Candidate envisioning policies such as \"compassionate Conservatism\", limiting global-warming, being a Uniter, championing Education reform and limited government, and then seemed to evolve into one of the Nation's most unpopular chief executives, should find this book very interesting. As Steve Clemons in the American Conservative stated, this is \"an indispensable volume without which the Bush Presidency can't be understood\". ...more A friend of mine - who actually remains a friend - recommended this book to me, and the local library had the unabridged audio book. Furthermore, Barton Gellman is a great journalist, and this book is an acclaimed piece of journalism and biography. Hey, I got through Jane Mayer's \"The Dark Side\", right? It was like listening to the biography of a tarantula. I kept having to fight the urge to spray my brain with Raid. I struggled through 3 CDs until I became so angered and disturbed by the subjec A friend of mine - who actually remains a friend - recommended this book to me, and the local library had the unabridged audio book. Furthermore, Barton Gellman is a great journalist, and this book is an acclaimed piece of journalism and biography. Hey, I got through Jane Mayer's \"The Dark Side\", right? It was like listening to the biography of a tarantula. I kept having to fight the urge to spray my brain with Raid. I struggled through 3 CDs until I became so angered and disturbed by the subject of this biography that I had to put it down. Nevertheless, as a lifelong student (inmate?) of American History, I feel compelled to suck it up, learn something and have an other whack at this. (I did learn how Cheney cynically gamed the vetting process for potential VP's for Bush II to his own advantage. I won't spoil the shock value of this particular escapade, but I will say you would not want to share any confidence with this man, and \"Dick\" is a fitting moniker.) ...more The author was a winner of the 2008 Pulitizer Prize. This book has the potential of making you mad, it did me. It focused on the full scope of Cheney's work and it's consequences, including going from al Qaeda to Iraq, spying on Americans, promoting torture, global warming, tax cuts for the wealthy, secret prisons, and how he operated politically in the White House. It's a great study of the Bush administration. Hipsters and other types of partisan Democrats love the idea of Cheney as someone beyond a mere political adversary, but someone who truly embodies pure evil. There were times during the Bush administration that everyone must have been suspicious of such a characterization. Cheney did himself no favors by cloaking all his decisions, benign and otherwise, in a veil of secrecy and it certainly didn't help that he looks generally sinister anyway. Gellman's book peels back the cloak to reveal somewh Hipsters and other types of partisan Democrats love the idea of Cheney as someone beyond a mere political adversary, but someone who truly embodies pure evil. There were times during the Bush administration that everyone must have been suspicious of such a characterization. Cheney did himself no favors by cloaking all his decisions, benign and otherwise, in a veil of secrecy and it certainly didn't help that he looks generally sinister anyway. Gellman's book peels back the cloak to reveal somewhat of a different picture than the Rachel Maddows of the world would have you believe. But only somewhat. Cheney is not evil. His secrets were not entirely based on the premise that they were morally and legally questionable and he didn't want you to discover them--though that certainly played a part. Cheney, more than anything else, was a brilliant policy mind who firmly believed in robust and unitary executive power. He did not adopt this view in 2001 to further his or Bush's ambitions, he has always believed it. That this view differs from the majority of the public, media, and other key players in DC made him a political adversary but does not by nature make him a bad person. His knowledge of the federal government and its sources of power enabled him like no other vice president to achieve his goals. His innovative interpretation of the vice presidency as an extension and not simply a representation of presidential power changed the world. People love to compare the Bush administration to Watergate, and there are striking similarities. But the key difference is that Nixon abused power for personal and political reasons. Cheney did not abuse power, he did not ignore laws; he reinterpreted them, and he did it for policy reasons, not evil or political. He took debates on things supposed to have only one objevtive answer--the law--and made them subjective, then used his intelligence and tools at his expense to win the subjective arguments. The very question of whether most of what he did was legal cannot be answered objectively--he changed the very merits by which we usually answer such a question. But he did go too far. He did lie, and in some cases he very well may have broken the law. If deliberately lying to the House Majority Leader about national security secrets to make a case for war constitutes breaking a law, then Cheney broke it. When the Framers laid out our government, they might have been proud to know the chains and traps they included kept the chief executive of an evolving and expanding nation in check for over two hundred years. And they might have been terrified of just how far Dick Cheney was able to extend his reach. It is Dick Cheney who James Madison had in mind when writing the Federalist papers in favor of restrained executive power. Perhaps the most intriguing part of all was that Cheney was able to do this as Vice President, an office literally intended to be an idle housekeeping and placekeeping position. Yet it seems unlikely that Cheney could've done what he did as President, where the tools of secrecy and back channels may not have been nearly as available to him. As a friend of mine said, you can't fully understand the first decade of the 21st century without knowing the history of the Cheney Vice Presidency. ...more Terrifying, fascinating. Cheney comes off as an X-men-level supervillain and always, always the smartest guy in the room. I think, more than anything, I was really struck by the effort Mr. Gellman (and, by extension, I guess, everyone he interviewed) goes to to point out that G.W.B. was less dumb (and less apathetic) than we thought. This, honestly, sort of shakes up my whole worldview, but it also makes Cheney all the more terrifying in that over and over again we see that even the White House Terrifying, fascinating. Cheney comes off as an X-men-level supervillain and always, always the smartest guy in the room. I think, more than anything, I was really struck by the effort Mr. Gellman (and, by extension, I guess, everyone he interviewed) goes to to point out that G.W.B. was less dumb (and less apathetic) than we thought. This, honestly, sort of shakes up my whole worldview, but it also makes Cheney all the more terrifying in that over and over again we see that even the White House had no idea what he was up to. (Also, worth reading the afterword in which we learn that Cheney himself rather enjoyed reading Angler.) ...more add a crunchy top layer to the political casserole created by The Bush Tragedy, The Terror Presidency, Bush's Law and many many NYer articles. neat summary of these past eight Wonderland years: A three-judge panel in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit...said the classified files contained mere assertions, not evidence. When the government declared the intelligence reliable because in appeared in three different documents, the judges mocked that reasoning. \"The fact that the government add a crunchy top layer to the political casserole created by The Bush Tragedy, The Terror Presidency, Bush's Law and many many NYer articles. neat summary of these past eight Wonderland years: A three-judge panel in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit...said the classified files contained mere assertions, not evidence. When the government declared the intelligence reliable because in appeared in three different documents, the judges mocked that reasoning. \"The fact that the government has 'said it thrice' does not make an allegation true. See Lewis Carroll, The Hunting of the Snark 3 (1876) ('I have said it thrice: What I tell you three times is true.').\" The Bush Administration \"comes perilously close to suggesting that whatever the government says must be treated as true, thus rendering superfluous both the role of the Tribunal and the role that Congress assigned to this court,\" the court wrote. ...more A petrifying view into the imperial vice presidency, with an amazing array of Washington insiders - many quoted by name for the first time. Gellman's research is prodigious, his access is amazing, and the sometimes previously unknown stories are often chilling. This book provides an interesting perspective on how to take over the entire policy process in Washington. It is not a flattering book, and the author clearly is not a Cheney fan, but an interesting portrait of the former VP comes out anyway. VP Cheney offered to be President Bush\u2019s \u201cdetail guy\u201d, handling things the President didn\u2019t want on his plate. The first step (after leading a search for a vice presidential candidate and rejecting all comers) was to be put in charge of the transition, duri This book provides an interesting perspective on how to take over the entire policy process in Washington. It is not a flattering book, and the author clearly is not a Cheney fan, but an interesting portrait of the former VP comes out anyway. VP Cheney offered to be President Bush\u2019s \u201cdetail guy\u201d, handling things the President didn\u2019t want on his plate. The first step (after leading a search for a vice presidential candidate and rejecting all comers) was to be put in charge of the transition, during the contested recount. Cheney realized that \u201cpersonnel is policy\u201d, and advocated people of his choosing in lower level positions in departments\u2019 policy shops so he could control the flow of policy recommendations bubbling up from the bureaucracy. Once the right people were in place he could shape how policy was formed from the bottom up, and control how it was decided on at the top. (Those people also provided valuable back-channel information to him.) He had his aides declared advisors to the President, allowing them to sit in on policy discussions at levels below him. Cheney himself sat in on Principal Committee meetings, which had never routinely occurred before. The President chairs these when he attends, but usually the National Security Advisor chairs for him. This gave Cheney a voice in the meetings, and because he routinely briefed the President privately it allowed him to advocate his positions outside the normal policy flow \u2013 exactly contrary to the way Cheney operated when he was White House Chief of Staff to President Ford. Cheney got office space on the House side because the House is where tax revenue (taxes) originates, so he could have a voice in tax policy. He sat in on numerous other meetings normally too low-level for a VP, then briefed the President and made recommendation. Cheney\u2019s capacity for work was enormous, and his attention to detail phenomenal. Chapter 4, Energy in the Executive, provides a case study in how to manage an errant boss (on the topic of climate change). This chapter highlights the Cheney didn\u2019t really care about politics, he cared about just doing what he thought was right. Other chapters go into a lot of detail on different cases Cheney weighed in on. The war on terror, torture, the clean air act, other environmental issues, taxes, the war in Iraq. A chapter that really addresses a different side of Cheney is Chapter 9, Demonstration Effect. I\u2019m not sure the author wanted to show how deep Cheney was, how nuanced his world view, but it comes out anyway. The chapter looks at the beginning of the Iraq war, how Cheney pushed it and what he as trying to achieve. Cheney looked for pivot points and threshold questions. He took a long view, especially in international relations. \u201cCan you modify regime behavior without regime change?\u201d One person interviewed said he was able to process information faster than anybody else in the room. (Powell, Rice and Rumsfeld were in the room.) I doubt history will be kind to the former VP, but it is clear from this book that he was a brilliant man striving to do what he thought was best for the country. Unfortunately, it probably wasn\u2019t. ...more 11/11: Hits the ground running with Cheney's terse, intrusive manipulation of the 2000 vice presidential vetting process, which turned out not to be necessary since Cheney chose himself as vp. 11/12: No surprise. Cheney gives his higher-up subordinates comparable positions in the president's staff, finesses himself into the Principals Committee and the Senate Republican Caucus, and makes himself a confidential adviser to the president on a level with the national security adviser. Most readers wo 11/11: Hits the ground running with Cheney's terse, intrusive manipulation of the 2000 vice presidential vetting process, which turned out not to be necessary since Cheney chose himself as vp. 11/12: No surprise. Cheney gives his higher-up subordinates comparable positions in the president's staff, finesses himself into the Principals Committee and the Senate Republican Caucus, and makes himself a confidential adviser to the president on a level with the national security adviser. Most readers would probably be surprised to find out how unprecedented it was for a vice president to make himself essentially co-equal with the president, but the fact that Cheney is in this position is well known. Most revealing is Cheney began amassing this power during the disputed 2000 election. 11/14: Should I have known Jim Jeffords quit the GOP in large part because Cheney wouldn't budge on an education initiative? Should I be surprised that Cheney helped to shift the White House public position on global warming, essentially under the president's nose? Should I? 11/16: A bold assertion, to argue that Cheney fundamentally misread the Federalist Papers in his quest for an unaccountable, unitary executive. Guess I'll have to read those next? And was it wishful thinking for Gellman to note that Cheney wouldn't have made it to the underground bunker in time if American 77 had been aiming for the White House? Skip a few days... 12/8: Other than a few back-handed digs that reveal something of the author's personal opinions, which would be rather difficult to conceal, this is a surprisingly even-handed account of a man who amassed as much power in the executive branch of the United States government as possible, with little regard for the political implications or the effects on civil liberties, because in his own estimation he felt he was doing the right thing. The author does not seem to think Cheney was deliberately trying to undermine the Constitution. He was trying to construct a political dynamic that would keep the country on a war footing for an indefinite time. The reader's own political leanings may well determine the rightness or wrongness of Cheney's goals. ...more I recently downloaded this audiobook on a whim from LA County library online system (check it out, LA locals). All I knew was that it was an in depth look at Dick Cheney in his role as VP, and that the author, Barton Gellman, had shared the 2008 Pulitzer Prize for his writing on Cheney with the Washington Post. Gellman succeeds in taking 8 years of data (along with a lot of before and after) and boiling it down into a page-turning account of the man who was the closest our nation has ever come t I recently downloaded this audiobook on a whim from LA County library online system (check it out, LA locals). All I knew was that it was an in depth look at Dick Cheney in his role as VP, and that the author, Barton Gellman, had shared the 2008 Pulitzer Prize for his writing on Cheney with the Washington Post. Gellman succeeds in taking 8 years of data (along with a lot of before and after) and boiling it down into a page-turning account of the man who was the closest our nation has ever come to having a \"deputy president.\" Throughout the book I found myself both more able to understand and sympathize(?) with Cheney, and also much more disturbed by him, as well as by the actions of the US government before and after 9/11. Gellman paints a picture of a man who was surprisingly lacking in personal ambition, but who manipulated the government, the public, and even the president, along with international ethics and law, in the service of his own deeply held (but highly questionable) beliefs about the US and the world. Want to know why we went to Iraq? Want to know how we ended up torturing people in Guantanamo? Want to know how the government flouted established law and began illegally monitoring your phone and email? Want to know why Bush campaigned on being a uniter but quickly became a divider once elected? Here's your book. Personally, not having read much post-game analysis of the Bush administration, I found the book most helpful in just re-thinking the events of that time period, absorbing the many details which only came out after the fact. (That's right, there actually were no WMDs in Iraq! Why did we ever think there were?) It also bears mentioning that Gellman offers his own analysis of these events and the people behind them: Cheney, Bush, Rice, Powell, Addington, and others. His work is not a bare statement of facts, but rather a careful and nuanced interpretation of the evidence. I'll leave it to savvier people to explain whether he gets it right or not. All I know is that I learned a lot and enjoyed myself in the process. ...more Why do people hate Dick Cheney? I read this book for answers and, happily, I can say Gellman delivers. The book starts weakly by making some innuendos about Cheney regarding a 'leak' about a VP candidate, Gov. Keating; the offended governor seems to believe only Cheney could have caused his troubles even though he admits he told several people about the subject when he was being cleared for an earlier job. Nevertheless, after this small misstep Gellman does a reasonably good job of illustrating Why do people hate Dick Cheney? I read this book for answers and, happily, I can say Gellman delivers. The book starts weakly by making some innuendos about Cheney regarding a 'leak' about a VP candidate, Gov. Keating; the offended governor seems to believe only Cheney could have caused his troubles even though he admits he told several people about the subject when he was being cleared for an earlier job. Nevertheless, after this small misstep Gellman does a reasonably good job of illustrating what it is that drives people nuts about Cheney: his secretive use of power, his manipulation of the president's decisions through limits on inforation and opinions, and, of course, his positions on certain emotional issues. The last point can cut different ways, of course, depending on how crazy you think his views are. So, for example, I don't like his opinions about natural resources versus ranchers' rights, but I understand that's because I'm an urbanite and he's a Westerner. On the other hand, his ominous invocation of the Dark Side and references to using any means necessary to get information to protect Americans - well, that's harder to love, of course. But Gellman's book really shines in two respects. First, he makes it clear that it's not just Cheney's love of war and torture that enrages people, but his ends-justfies-the-means use of power behind the scenes. Second, and in confirmation of the first point, the author manages to write the in-house struggle to make the treatment of terror suspects legal and decent with suspense and great narrative force. The real hero of the episode turns out to be John Ashcroft, who has not been given his props. ...more Angler, by the well-respected writer Barton Gellman, is an important book and a good read as well. Important, because it shows the multitude of ways that Dick Cheney manipulated the federal bureaucracy, which Cheney knew well, to form a wall around President <---C>George W. Bush</---C>. Bush was making decisions as president, certainly, but Cheney controlled the information delivered to the president and the people who had access to him. In that carefully controlled environment some of Bush's head-scratching Angler, by the well-respected writer Barton Gellman, is an important book and a good read as well. Important, because it shows the multitude of ways that Dick Cheney manipulated the federal bureaucracy, which Cheney knew well, to form a wall around President George W. Bush. Bush was making decisions as president, certainly, but Cheney controlled the information delivered to the president and the people who had access to him. In that carefully controlled environment some of Bush's head-scratching decisions (compared to his earlier speeches and calls for a \"compassionate conservatism\") As disturbing as that is\u2014a rolling Machiavellian overthrow by the vice president in a sense\u2014Cheney's flouting of the U.S. Constitution is even more breathtaking. According to the book, there were many secret presidential orders described that were so classified that only a handful of people were even aware that they even existed and were locked away in safes in Cheney's office. All of the orders were for the purpose of reducing the civil rights of American citizens. Up to that point nearly all U.S. vice presidents had been non-entities as far as American history was concerned, so ineffective that it called into question whether the office of the vice presidency was even needed. Gellman's Angler shows the opposite extreme, a vice president all too effective and controlling whose term in office points out how shielded from oversight, and therefore terrifyingly dangerous a vice president can be. A must read for all political observers and people interested in contemporary American history. ...more The Bush administration has been the most damaging one of my life -- and I can remember Eisenhower. The former President still has his apologists who claim he is intelligent, well informed, and engaged. There is no evidence for this whatsoever. The man exhibited no acquaintance with anything other than the cultural prejudices with which he grew up and no awareness of the existence of a host of alternative prejudices. The lack of intelligence or deliberation is evident in the fact that he demonst The Bush administration has been the most damaging one of my life -- and I can remember Eisenhower. The former President still has his apologists who claim he is intelligent, well informed, and engaged. There is no evidence for this whatsoever. The man exhibited no acquaintance with anything other than the cultural prejudices with which he grew up and no awareness of the existence of a host of alternative prejudices. The lack of intelligence or deliberation is evident in the fact that he demonstrated no uncertainty that there might be alternatives to any of his notions. Cheney saw this early on -- at least as early as the time during which he was Bush's \"vice presidential search committee\". Cheney realized, I am quite sure, that were he to be the Vice President, he could control Bush and manipulate him, achieving in the VP role virtually every thing he might otherwise only be able to achieve as President. The book Angler confirms this. The Republican Party, in control of the other branches of government for most of Bush's term, abdicated its constitutional responsibility as a co-equal branch of government, bending to the political machinations of the administration, even when they were clearly violating or ignoring the Constitution themselves (e.g., abrogating treaties, issuing signing statements, etc., etc). Mickey Edwards, a former Republican congressman from Oklahoma, has written a book is an indictment of the GOP in this regard. ...more Gellman's exhaustively sourced and gripping account of Cheney's transformation of OVP could not be any more fascinating. Getting beyond all the conspiracy theories and general nutjobbery that surrounds the man, the book tells a story of an almost Greek tragic hero -- a man so blinded by ideology and a lust for secrecy that he may have been at once the most effective and destructive holder of the office. Starting with Cheney's appointment to the ticket (recall, he ran Bush's VP search committee i Gellman's exhaustively sourced and gripping account of Cheney's transformation of OVP could not be any more fascinating. Getting beyond all the conspiracy theories and general nutjobbery that surrounds the man, the book tells a story of an almost Greek tragic hero -- a man so blinded by ideology and a lust for secrecy that he may have been at once the most effective and destructive holder of the office. Starting with Cheney's appointment to the ticket (recall, he ran Bush's VP search committee in 1999) and moving from his architected consolidation of white house power to a climactic, gripping account of near Watergate-level insurrection at DoJ, Gellman tells a tale all the more engrossing for its veracity. I only have two real complaints. One, the book ends with about 75 pages left in the volume, which was disappointing (the remainder is dedicated to citations and sources) and two, it includes some assertions by implication that are frankly beneath the level of stellar journalism otherwise found in the Angler series. \"Nobody could prove that Cheney did NOT drink iraqi blood out of thomas jefferson's skull...\" kind of stuff -- though that may because few people were willing to go on record. In general the volume is not overly negative on Cheney (all things considered...) though it is clearly colored by the fact that people willing to spill the beans to a journalist are by and large among the (numerous) people that were wronged or alienated by the man. ...more Learned 1. Cheney is the man behind the power. He had his hands in _everything major_ or so it seems. As I read the book, it seemed like many major decisions were made w/o proper vetting/procedures being followed. THus, it seem like there were almost no types of consultation or critical thinking involved in making and enacting the decisions. From Abu Grab to torture to Fed rates to water management; this guy was making major policy decisions, often with minimal presidential . 2. Bush comes off as Learned 1. Cheney is the man behind the power. He had his hands in _everything major_ or so it seems. As I read the book, it seemed like many major decisions were made w/o proper vetting/procedures being followed. THus, it seem like there were almost no types of consultation or critical thinking involved in making and enacting the decisions. From Abu Grab to torture to Fed rates to water management; this guy was making major policy decisions, often with minimal presidential . 2. Bush comes off as relatively inept/incurious/clueless president who basically signs off on just about every major decision manufactured by Cheney & his group. 3. THere are some links to Greenspan and at some point the Fed Chair became a relatively regular lunch guest at the WH, meeting with both Pres & VP. Didn't know but now know 1. Iraq info most likely ''ginned up' with Tenet & FBI director out of the loop. 2. With Cheney's hands in a lot of circles, the OVP was able to unilaterally shape policy. 3. THe fact that he seems to think that the OVP was not part of the Executive branch and therefore somewhat immune from exec-oriented laws suggests that the VP office was pretty much operating as a show unto itself. 4. Also, because he wants to now seal his papers and keep them classified suggests that we won't know what he was up to for quite awhile. ...more Finished this book a few days ago, and I give it a strong recommendation. Gellman is meticulous to describe Cheney's modus operandi through its strengths and limitations, successes and failures. Gellman's assessment of the Cheney vice-presidency takes care to demonstrate what Cheney was and what Cheney wasn't. He pulls no punches in recounting the events leading up to the Bush administration's condoning of both torture and domestic surveillance. What was interesting to me was Gellman's treatment Finished this book a few days ago, and I give it a strong recommendation. Gellman is meticulous to describe Cheney's modus operandi through its strengths and limitations, successes and failures. Gellman's assessment of the Cheney vice-presidency takes care to demonstrate what Cheney was and what Cheney wasn't. He pulls no punches in recounting the events leading up to the Bush administration's condoning of both torture and domestic surveillance. What was interesting to me was Gellman's treatment of Bush himself. Bush's managerial style acted as an enabler to Cheney's (and by extension, a very looming David Addington's) successes, executive power grabs, and complete and near-complete governing disasters, yet Bush figures almost not at all within the central narratives of the account. Not until the end does Gellman truly examine and make any comment on the unusual relationship. Excerpt: \"The critics missed something important. The formula was not empty. It was a syllogism, informed by the same old claim of unlimited power. 'Torture' was defined as 'what we do not condone,' as Bush put it. Whatever Bush did permit, Al Gonzales said, 'does not constitute torture.' Quod erat demonstrandum. ...more I checked out this book with a lot of interest. I will never see eye-to-eye with Dick Cheney on a majority of issues but I found his quest for power very fascinating. Gellman does a pretty solid job (though at times mildly repetitive) in summing up top-secret meetings & events which includes my personal favorite; Alberto Gonzales & James Comey rushing to the bed side of AG John Ashcroft. Without spoiling too much of the book, you get a pretty good understanding of how Dick Cheney operate I checked out this book with a lot of interest. I will never see eye-to-eye with Dick Cheney on a majority of issues but I found his quest for power very fascinating. Gellman does a pretty solid job (though at times mildly repetitive) in summing up top-secret meetings & events which includes my personal favorite; Alberto Gonzales & James Comey rushing to the bed side of AG John Ashcroft. Without spoiling too much of the book, you get a pretty good understanding of how Dick Cheney operated as VP and how aides such as David Addington (who might as well be the other figure in the book) gave him the power he needed. George W. Bush is for the most part, an afterthought and referred to like he is off-screen. There are a few times you have to remind yourself that Cheney wasn't the President and Addington wasn't his VP. I learned a lot from this book and I recommend it to any history or political buff. Angler may not be the most exciting read, far from it, but I found it to be intriguing. I rented it from my college library but there's enough information in it for me to buy it cheap and read it now and then. ...more The best political book I've read about the Bush administration. A remarkably even-handed and detailed profile of Cheney's years in the White House. It destroys a lot of the more ludicrous ideas of Cheney's motives while revealing things that are so calculated and unyielding that its shocking. On one hand, Cheney's secrecy goes as far as to even hide things that would dispel myths about him, like his forfeiting millions in Haliburton stock options. On the other hand, he and his chief lawyer Davi The best political book I've read about the Bush administration. A remarkably even-handed and detailed profile of Cheney's years in the White House. It destroys a lot of the more ludicrous ideas of Cheney's motives while revealing things that are so calculated and unyielding that its shocking. On one hand, Cheney's secrecy goes as far as to even hide things that would dispel myths about him, like his forfeiting millions in Haliburton stock options. On the other hand, he and his chief lawyer David Addington and John Yoo went to bizarre lengths to circumvent America's adherence to the Geneva conventions. He also would deftly manipulate both sides of arguments before they were ever brought to Bush. And yet, Cheney more than anything wanted to protect America from another attack like 9/11, yet in doing so, caused untold damage to our credibility and ability to influence events around the world. Great journalism, and some chilling stories. And who'd have thought John Ashcroft would turn out to be a hero? ...more Fantastically interesting piece of non-fiction tied together by a narrative worthy of an Aaron Sorkin drama. Specifically, the West Wing. Alright, I've never seen the West Wing, but if it is at all like this book, I am going to go out and purchase the DVDs. In an era when Cheney bashing is as trendy as skinny jeans, this book is a breath of fresh air. Not because it is written from a pro-Cheney angle, but because it appears to be a sparkling piece of journalistic objectivity. A ruthlessly effectiv Fantastically interesting piece of non-fiction tied together by a narrative worthy of an Aaron Sorkin drama. Specifically, the West Wing. Alright, I've never seen the West Wing, but if it is at all like this book, I am going to go out and purchase the DVDs. In an era when Cheney bashing is as trendy as skinny jeans, this book is a breath of fresh air. Not because it is written from a pro-Cheney angle, but because it appears to be a sparkling piece of journalistic objectivity. A ruthlessly effective man of conviction and single-minded determination, stories of Cheney fill this 400 page volume, however there is also significant insight into how our government works at the highest levels. Whether you are a Cheney-lover, or a Cheney-hater, I cannot recommend this book enough. P.S. One of my favorite parts might have been in the epilogue where the author mentions that Cheney sent him a signed picture of Cheney reading this book. Cheney had some complaints, but he still recommends this book to people saying \"the author did his homework.\" Fantastic. ...more A bit more than you'd want to read, but, as the story goes on, you see the administration turn a corner: there's only so much shit Cheney can pull (Bush doesn't figure into the narrative much \u2014 he's not a \"details man\"). How this match made in opportunism's Purgatory came to be, you'll find out in these pages, along with such tidbits as who the hell David Addington is, and how pivotal he (and John Yoo \u2014 another screamingly-obvious figure, right?) were in the whole \"we'll nod our heads in a circl A bit more than you'd want to read, but, as the story goes on, you see the administration turn a corner: there's only so much shit Cheney can pull (Bush doesn't figure into the narrative much \u2014 he's not a \"details man\"). How this match made in opportunism's Purgatory came to be, you'll find out in these pages, along with such tidbits as who the hell David Addington is, and how pivotal he (and John Yoo \u2014 another screamingly-obvious figure, right?) were in the whole \"we'll nod our heads in a circle and establish , amongst ourselves, the president's right during 'wartime' to ... etc., etc.\" effort to detain, detain, deprive, and not quite \"torture\" (wink, wink). These distinctions are wafer-thin and crucial ... care to comment? Read the book! ...more I wrote a long review on Shelfari that did not transfer here. Briefly, I believe Cheney is immoral, evil, and likely criminal. The book is character revealing. The man is truly the Prince of Darkness. My first reaction upon finishing Gellman\u2019s book on the Cheney vice presidency was to speculate on how embarrassed those who served in the Bush Administration would be at the description of events presented in this book. Memos, emails, and memorandums were forwarded onto the Office of the Vice President (OVP) for years without the knowledge of staffers, policy makers, and even cabinet secretaries, and Cheney served as the gatekeeper to the president selecting (or suggesting) options before the pr My first reaction upon finishing Gellman\u2019s book on the Cheney vice presidency was to speculate on how embarrassed those who served in the Bush Administration would be at the description of events presented in this book. Memos, emails, and memorandums were forwarded onto the Office of the Vice President (OVP) for years without the knowledge of staffers, policy makers, and even cabinet secretaries, and Cheney served as the gatekeeper to the president selecting (or suggesting) options before the presentation to the president thus limiting the choices or throwing his weight behind one so the others were never fully considered. He blocked access to the president insisting President Bush\u2019s time not be wasted or, in one very egregious case, told the president the Justice Department was refusing to sign off on his secret domestic surveillance program as constitutional at the last minute after they had been fighting with Cheney and President Bush\u2019s counsel over the matter for almost a year. Nearly the entire top echelon of the staff at the Justice Department had written resignation letters preparing to leave, which multiple interviewees in the book said would have cost President Bush his re-election in 2004, and would have if one of them had not discovered the president had no idea what was going on. It is chilling to read about how cold and calculating Cheney was about amassing power, particularly after he was so critical of Vice President Dan Qualyle for using executive power held by the president during the First Gulf War. The juxtaposition between this and Cheney giving the order to shoot down any non-communicative commercial airliner on September 11, 2001 is especially alarming. However, as Gellman explains, some of Cheney\u2019s ability to amass power was due to the rules set forth by previous presidents and much of it was due to his own view of the Constitution and executive power. On the former point, President Clinton had rewritten the role of the OVP to give the Vice President the power to set and regulate environmental policy due to Al Gore\u2019s commitment to climate change. Cheney used this rewrite to change environmental policy for the benefit of the oil and gas industry from which he once worked in: Yellowstone National Park was delisted so a coal plant could be built near the park\u2019s borders which, thankfully, never occurred; the administration\u2019s policy on climate change became that science was too complicated and not in agreement on the cause; and the listing of a species of fish on the Endangered Species List was muddled by special interest science in order to secure the votes of farmers at the detriment of the fish, the California salmon industry, and Native American tribes who have rights to water that supersede anyone else. On the later point, Cheney believes the executive branch (the Office of the President and OVP) supersedes the power of both the legislature and the executive branch meaning the president is not beholden to either branch, and he understands the president to be the sole interpreter of the law. If the president finds his actions to be legal, then neither Congress nor the Supreme Court has the right to tell him otherwise. Bush\u2019s illegal domestic spying program continued for nearly three years after the events of September 11, 2001 before certain members of Congress were notified and that only occurred because the Justice Department was threatening to walk and whistleblower on the whole program. Because Cheney and, therefore, Bush saw the president as the sole interpreter of the law, terrorism suspects were denied habeas corpus and tortured at Guantanamo, Cheney refused to submit to inquiries from Congress or the Justice Department, and neither believed they had to ask Congress for the right to go to war in either Afghanistan or Iraq. Needless to say, this is not in line with the checks and balance of power between the three branches of federal government I have been taught in every single U.S. history, government, or civics course I have taken in my eighteen years of formal education in this country. I did listen to Gellman\u2019s book on audio, and I was apprehensive about doing so because with nonfiction books on particularly controversial topics I like to see and, occasionally, check extensive footnotes. But I could not get my hands on a print version before my book club meeting. This might be one of the few nonfiction books where an audiobook is effective because Gellman relies upon extensive interviews rather than printed materials to constructive his narrative and, therefore, I did not miss referencing footnotes or a bibliography. The narrator, Brian Keith Lewis, also does a great job of differentiating between the voices of the different interviewees; he had President Bush\u2019s slight twang and slower speech pattern down pat. ...more If you've paid close attention to the newspapers and wire services in the last eight years, you really don't need to read Angler The Cheney Vice Presidency . You knew what was happening all along. But it may be worth it to read through as a summation, a reminder of the kind of rampant malfeasance in office that the national citizenry allowed, and by their silence, approved. What's interesting, for those who don't need to read it, may just be the most minute facets of machiavellian process, as pe If you've paid close attention to the newspapers and wire services in the last eight years, you really don't need to read Angler The Cheney Vice Presidency . You knew what was happening all along. But it may be worth it to read through as a summation, a reminder of the kind of rampant malfeasance in office that the national citizenry allowed, and by their silence, approved. What's interesting, for those who don't need to read it, may just be the most minute facets of machiavellian process, as perfected by Cheney and Select Associates once in power. This little detail, for example, in the aftermath of the Abu Ghraib attrocities : As allies and public sentiment in Arab and Muslim countries turned savage, John Bellinger composed a memo for George Bush. Bellinger told Condi Rice, his immediate superior, that the president had to demonstrate his outrage at a moment of national disgrace. He wrote a formal transmission memo, with a cover note to Rice and a draft directive from Bush to Rumsfeld. The president would tell the defense secretary that he was deeply troubled by this taint upon the nation , directing him to report back in thirty days with an explanation and a plan of action. And then Bellinger found out something that, in three years as a top adviser to Rice, he had never known. Every time he wrote a memo to his boss, a blind copy was routed to the vice president's office. Scooter Libby, according to one official, made the arrangement with Steve Hadley, Rice's deputy. It was not advertised, and neither was it reciprocated; what happened in Cheney's office stayed in Cheney's office. Just another little aspect of a White House job, and a lesson--- watch your back, your front, your thoughts, because you are being watched. This book is well researched, strains at every difficult juncture to be fair-minded, and is scrupulously footnoted. It does suffer slightly from being composed in the age of google, and dissimilar 'search result' snippets end up all over an otherwise tight narrative line. What I thought most impressive here was the generally strict insistence on staying away from the sensational & mythic aspects of the Cheney era. Americans now don't need fantastic exaggerations about the darth vader of bush junior's negligent terms in office. They need straight examples, clear reporting, and accurate timelines. Material to add to the broad evidence that constitutional abuse took place, and to underline the fact that a prosecution would serve justice now and for generations to come. ...more The book is fairly well referenced. Gellman avoids using complicated ways of saying things with fancy words. This makes it easy to read. Let me review this book by answering two questions (asked by a reader friend Katie Semenick). 1. What do you as a reader get, from reading \"<+++>Angler: The Cheney Vice Presidency</+++>\"? - Reading the book confirmed my idea about how things are/were run in the US government and what was Cheney\u2019s pivotal role in the events leading to the response to 9/11 and beyond. 2. What The book is fairly well referenced. Gellman avoids using complicated ways of saying things with fancy words. This makes it easy to read. Let me review this book by answering two questions (asked by a reader friend Katie Semenick). 1.\tWhat do you as a reader get, from reading \"<+++>Angler: The Cheney Vice Presidency</+++>\"? - Reading the book confirmed my idea about how things are/were run in the US government and what was Cheney\u2019s pivotal role in the events leading to the response to 9/11 and beyond. 2.\tWhat is Dick Cheney's most admirable quality, and if I noticed his flaws as a person in the book as well? - His most admirable quality \u2013 now that\u2019s a tough one. Actually, I noticed three of them: First \u2013 he reads a lot and listens carefully to briefings by subject experts, clearly focusing on the topics. In this book, as elsewhere, this ability is contrasted with his erstwhile boss\u2019s abject lack of such qualities. Second \u2013 he has a healthy mistrust of excessive legislation and understands the complicated webs of interests behind these. The flip side of this good quality is his remarkable skill at converting background webs of interests to solely serve elite stakeholder vested interests in total disregard to public good. This turns out to be his colossal lack of morality and failure to understand accountability to voters and the people or the constitution. Third \u2013 he thinks that running the economy should never be trusted to politicians \u2013 now, isn\u2019t that something from a hard-core politician. In spite of bringing out these good sides of Cheney, the book focuses on showing how his \u2018bad\u2019 sides makes him one of the main characters responsible for subverting decency and morality underlying the noble principles that America stands for and was built upon. He is painted as one of the main architects responsible for taking USA down the slippery slope to perdition post 9/11. This is hardly the book he would sign and gift to his admirers and family. Gellman succeeds in showing him as an extremely manipulative and power-hungry yet tragic figure without going into Michael Moore like one-sided simplifications or simply portraying him as Nazi Goebbels. ...more A man of remarkable intelligence, a dominating presence in a room, a keen analytical mind capable of dissecting problems and finding solutions; a man of strong principles. All of these are descriptions that one gains of Vice President Cheney from this book. And, in general, all of these characteristics or traits would be what one would want in a leader of our country. The problem, as the author points out, that Cheney's principles were out of sync with American values, American historic principl A man of remarkable intelligence, a dominating presence in a room, a keen analytical mind capable of dissecting problems and finding solutions; a man of strong principles. All of these are descriptions that one gains of Vice President Cheney from this book. And, in general, all of these characteristics or traits would be what one would want in a leader of our country. The problem, as the author points out, that Cheney's principles were out of sync with American values, American historic principles and the American public in general (he is, according to the author, the least liked vice president in the history of our country). Cheney and his staff exerted Cheney's view of the world on the policies of the Bush Administration for at least five or six years. They ran roughshod over the laws of America in their efforts to combat terrorists - authorizing inhumane treatment, endless incarceration, brutality - all in the effort to obtain information from captured Al Qaeda and Iraqi insurgents. Ironically, very little of the information that they obtained was actionable. Yet they continued. Cheney, through obfuscation and outright lies, led the President (willingly) and the Congress (unwillingly) and the country (unwillingly) into a war in Iraq that remains unsettled to this day. Cheney and his staff engineered a tax cut - the second in the Bush Administration - that reduced revenues just as the Administration was spending billions and billions on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The results were reduced taxes for the rich and a ballooning Federal deficit that is only now beginning to slow down its growth. Cheney and his staff overlooked the endangered status of salmon and other fish to provide water from the Klamath River for farmers and ranchers. With no regard for legalities, Cheney and his staff pushed the vice president's agenda over and over again. This is a remarkable expose of the Cheney Vice Presidency. It needs to be read to help ensure that the abuses that Cheney inflicted on the American way of government are never permitted again. ...more I loved that this book isn't really a biography, but rather a mostly chronological depiction of Cheney's time in the White House. It's also classically objective, unbiased journalism--Gellman even refrains from using 'I' the few times it's necessary, calling himself \"the author.\" I even came out of it with a little more respect for Cheney than I had before, since Gellman gives no credence to the accusations of financial impropriety that linger over Cheney and his Halliburton connections. And Che I loved that this book isn't really a biography, but rather a mostly chronological depiction of Cheney's time in the White House. It's also classically objective, unbiased journalism--Gellman even refrains from using 'I' the few times it's necessary, calling himself \"the author.\" I even came out of it with a little more respect for Cheney than I had before, since Gellman gives no credence to the accusations of financial impropriety that linger over Cheney and his Halliburton connections. And Cheney's a brutally efficient manager, using simple strategies to have his staff dominate over Bush's. There's some comedy in how easily he defeats Rice and Powell, who often found themselves on the opposite side of arguments. (There's even a scene where Rice breaks down in tears during a meeting she can't get Cheney-ally Rumsfeld to attend.) The book's chapters are broken down thematically: there's a chapter, for instance, on Cheney's role shaping financial policy (he advocated for even more tax cuts than Bush thought wise, and eventually got them), the environment (anything impeding natural resource extraction was bad, according to the former oil-man), and, of course, the War on Terror. I wish there was perhaps another chapter on the War in Iraq and more perspective on Cheney's role in it, but Gellman does a good job covering all the ways Cheney impacted the country. The scariest part, for me, was the way Cheney manipulated the law. His theory of unitary executive power was so extreme that it meant, essentially, that the President had the power not to obey any law he so chose. (Execute is the proper legal term, of course, but Cheney and his legal team of Dave Addington and John Yoo stretched it beyond my imagination.) Meanwhile, our legal system is so slow/inept that the only thing that eventually challenged Cheney was the threat of resignation from Bush Administration appointees, or the people most likely to agree with him. ...more I am not a Dick Cheney fan. Surprise. But this book seemed even-handed to me, and I did come away with an appreciation for what Mr. Cheney may have thought he was doing in the years after 9/11. Gellman tidily disposes of the usual stuff about Cheney making a profit from the Iraqi War. The Vice-President seems to have been incorruptible. Unfortunately, the word is usually applied to Robespierre, and that is actually more in line with Cheney's personality. Gellman describes a man who is obsessed w I am not a Dick Cheney fan. Surprise. But this book seemed even-handed to me, and I did come away with an appreciation for what Mr. Cheney may have thought he was doing in the years after 9/11. Gellman tidily disposes of the usual stuff about Cheney making a profit from the Iraqi War. The Vice-President seems to have been incorruptible. Unfortunately, the word is usually applied to Robespierre, and that is actually more in line with Cheney's personality. Gellman describes a man who is obsessed with protecting America from anyone and everyone, even if it means subverting the separation of powers. He is by turns conspiratorial, vengeful, highly intelligent and equally stupid upon occasion. The person who remains shadowy is President Bush. Gellman tries to decipher the relationship between the two men, but in the end he seems to throw up his hands. What is clearly articulated by Gellman is Cheney's concept of his role as Vice-President. It is putting it very mildly indeed to say that it was unlike any previous or subsequent understanding of the office. The evidence is strong that this was a co-presidency, with Cheney carefully controlling what information was handed to Bush, who had access to meetings with the President, and the scope of everyone connected to the team that those who put us into Iraq had --- Rice, Rumsfeld, poor Colin Powell --- you name him or her, and Cheney put the person in place. It's a fascinating read. If you liked Cheney, you will probably like him even more when you finish. If you didn't --- well, it is an engrossing look into the actions of a man who did severe harm to the Executive Branch and walked away from it. ...more If you are still scratching your head over how the Bush administration took the path it did, defying over 200 years of laws and customs in the process, you must read this book. Angler is about the Cheney Vice Presidency; Angler was/is Cheney's Secret Service nickname, so named because he is a fly fisherman but also because he spent eight years angling and maneuvering to get his ideas before the President. Oh, he is a wily one! And so convinced that he is right! At least that's how I have to look If you are still scratching your head over how the Bush administration took the path it did, defying over 200 years of laws and customs in the process, you must read this book. Angler is about the Cheney Vice Presidency; Angler was/is Cheney's Secret Service nickname, so named because he is a fly fisherman but also because he spent eight years angling and maneuvering to get his ideas before the President. Oh, he is a wily one! And so convinced that he is right! At least that's how I have to look at it to keep from thinking he is truly evil. (The image I have is of Cheney as the wizard in The Wizard of Oz, but instead of being a \"good man but not a very good wizard,\" I think of him as a good wizard but not a very good man.) To summarize his manipulations: With the help of David Addington (a self-righteous bully if there ever was one), who served as counsel to OVP (Office of the Vice President), and even before Bush's term began when Cheney headed the search for Bush's vice president, Cheney presented to Bush well-honed information almost guaranteed to produce the outcome that Cheney wanted. This is not to say that Bush did not have a mind of his own. But Cheney was the detail guy to Bush's big-picture perspective, only bringing Bush into the decision-making process when he could control the information presented to Bush. (And Cheney could gather information like nobody's business, then use that information against the person.) The question I am left with is: What kind of president would Bush have been with someone else as his VP? For example, Bush actually cared (cares?) about the environment but you'd never know it from some of the decisions made during his term. ...more \u2018I have a different understanding with the President.\u2019 This book is specifically about Dick Cheney\u2019s role in the George W Bush presidency. It also raises questions more generally, at least for me, about the role of the vice-president in the USA\u2019s administration. It seems clear, both from the content of the book and wider events that Dick Cheney had a different view of the roles and responsibilities of the role of the vice president than his immediate predecessors. It is very clear that Dick Chen \u2018I have a different understanding with the President.\u2019 This book is specifically about Dick Cheney\u2019s role in the George W Bush presidency. It also raises questions more generally, at least for me, about the role of the vice-president in the USA\u2019s administration. It seems clear, both from the content of the book and wider events that Dick Cheney had a different view of the roles and responsibilities of the role of the vice president than his immediate predecessors. It is very clear that Dick Cheney knew his way through the mazes of power. He knew, from previous experience, how the US government operated and how to obtain the information he required. In short, Dick Cheney knew how to get things done. Did the ends justify the means? Much of the focus in this book is on the things that Dick Cheney did (or did not do) and how he achieved the particular objectives he seemed to have set. From my perspective, this is a starting point not an ending point. Dick Cheney\u2019s term as vice president is finished and is now a part of history. It is being judged and will continue to be judged both by American citizens and more broadly by students of public administration, constitutional law and government. This book may be about the man, but it is also about the role. What powers should the office of the vice-president enjoy? To what extent should the executive arm of government be scrutinised, and by whom? I found this to be an interesting and thought-provoking book. Jennifer Cameron-Smith ...more", "Title": "Angler: The Cheney Vice Presidency"},
