{"Comments": "After my negative review of The Twentieth Wife A Novel , Mintzi recommended The Last Empress as a superior alternative and I thought I might as well read the prequel first. \"<+++>Empress Orchid</+++>\" started off pretty strong -- Orchid,<---M> like Mehrunissa from \"The Twentieth Wife</---M>,\" is a poor girl who miraculously rises to be the emperor's wife but unlike Mehrunissa, is not a goody-goody Mary Sue heroine. Chosen from among thousands of young women as the emperor's fourth concubine, Orchid discovers that palace After my negative review of The Twentieth Wife A Novel , Mintzi recommended The Last Empress as a superior alternative and I thought I might as well read the prequel first. \"<+++>Empress Orchid</+++>\" started off pretty strong -- Orchid, like Mehrunissa from \"The Twentieth Wife,\" is a poor girl who miraculously rises to be the emperor's wife but unlike Mehrunissa, is not a goody-goody Mary Sue heroine. Chosen from among thousands of young women as the emperor's fourth concubine, Orchid discovers that palace life is oppressively dull. She remains unnoticed by the emperor but her responsibility notwithstanding to be on call for him 24/7 precludes any other activity which might serve as a source of stimulation or assuage her loneliness. Desperate to change her circumstances, she bribes her way into the emperor's bed and learns all sorts of tricks to satisfy him, so that she manages to stay on his radar screen long enough to get pregnant with -- luckily -- his only son. At this point, the book took a turn for the worse. Dialogue and narrative became increasingly pedantic as the novel's focus shifted from Orchid's personal struggles to the wars plaguing China at the time and Orchid's increasingly active role in assisting the emperor. I don't know enough about Chinese history to tell you whether this aspect of the story was accurate or realistic, but I can tell you this -- it bored me.<---F> And it didn't have to</---F>. The political intrigue could have been interesting, had it been a little less dry and impersonally written. Toward the end, the book depicted Orchid's lack of control in the decisions surrounding her son. As the fourth concubine outranked by the official empress, Orchid was compelled to defer to the empress who overindulged her son rather than building his character. Orchid, who wished her son to be disciplined so as to become an effective ruler, naturally lost influence with him as she tried to take a harder line. It's a complex conflict, but despite this, <---A>Anchee Min</---A> had completely lost my interest at that point and I was skimming the book rapidly (<---B>and not missing much, I suspect</---B>). Anchee Min recreates 1850s China with great detail which starts out fascinating but eventually gets tiresome as it weighs down the story. Similarly, I started out liking and empathizing with Orchid but eventually grew disenchanted with her as the story became less about her and more about China and her character became increasingly flat. By the end of the book, I couldn't bring myself to care all that much about her or her story, and am not sure whether I will end up picking up the sequel. ...more Bullet Review: This was a lot of fun to read. I'm always interested in new cultures and new time periods, so this was perfect for me. I loved Orchid; she's the independent, strong-willed female protagonist we're always promised and never get. There were some dry sections, along with a lot of narration and not so much action, but I still enjoyed this heartily. Full review: Orchid is a young woman who moved from Wuhu with her family and father's body to Peking. Living in destitution, her best chance Bullet Review: This was a lot of fun to read. I'm always interested in new cultures and new time periods, so this was perfect for me. I loved Orchid; she's the independent, strong-willed female protagonist we're always promised and never get. There were some dry sections, along with a lot of narration and not so much action, but I still enjoyed this heartily. Full review: Orchid is a young woman who moved from Wuhu with her family and father's body to Peking. Living in destitution, her best chance for a good life is to compete against hundreds of other young Manchu ladies to be one of Emperor Hsien's concubines - and maybe one of the lucky 7 to be his wife. Through her persistence and cunning, Orchid rises from her humble beginnings to be one of the Emperor's wives, to give birth his only male child, and to stay alive amongst the back-stabbing Inner Court. I feel rather ashamed; I enjoyed this book heartily, devouring the last 50 - 100 pages eagerly, and yet I really had almost no desire to review it. It's taken me a week to the day since I finished it to get back to reviewing it, so please excuse me if my memory is incomplete or this review is what I'm afraid it will be: incredibly boring. But let me start off with an OFF-TOPIC story: when I was a child, I went to a private school in Hawaii. Out of a class of 30 students (or so), I was one of three Caucasian children. Most of the rest were Hawaiian, Japanese, or Chinese. I sincerely believe my early interactions with so many varied cultures and races is what kept me from being too much of a bigot and a racist (being raised in a fundamentalist evangelical culture tends to make a person that way). Ever since that early childhood, I have been fascinated with the Chinese and Japanese cultures. I constantly checked out non-fiction books on the subject - but always was disappointed at how little information those children's non-fiction books had. (I would have read adult non-fiction, but the word \"adult\" at the time scared me into thinking that it was \"dirty\" and \"inappropriate\" - ah the life of a fundamentalist evangelical!!) I tried at various points to teach myself the language (nope, didn't work) or to read books by Chinese and Japanese authors. When it was time to select a country to do a report on, I chose China and spent an inordinate amount of time and effort into my China report when I was in 7th grade. I loved that report to be honest; I made this binder for it that was painted in beautiful white, red, and pink cherry blossom flowers. This love of the people and cultures has continued into my adult life. I wanted so badly to take Japanese in college, but practicality and fear held me back. I resorted to reading \"Memoirs of a Geisha\" and watching the movie to feed this desire to learn more about these wonderful people. More recently, a friend sent me a copy of this book to Buddy Read. Normally, I would not bother to read anything set in the mid-19th century. I have been pummeled with that period from my three years of taking American History and how even World History seems more focused on America and Western Europe than any other part of the Globe. But I trust my friend's taste of books, and, like I spent several paragraphs above saying, I love learning more about China and Japan, so a couple of weeks ago, I began my journey into 19th century China. There are many things I could use this review space to say about the book. I could talk about the fascinating characters, from Orchid, a woman who is actually time-period appropriate and yet every bit the independent \"spunky\" woman nearly every Historical Fiction novel promises, to An-Te-Hai, her eununch, to Tung Chih, her son. I could talk about the writing style, which was beautiful without bogging down the narrative in silly faux-Asian metaphors. I could mention how gripping it was, watching Orchid fight tooth and nail to make sure her son was appointed Emperor and how she had to use her wits to get pregnant in the first place. There are many, MANY things I could say about the book, and all would be relevant. But sometimes we want the irrelevant, the OFF-TOPIC responses when we are reading a review. If I wanted a strict list of characters and plot, I could go to Wikipedia, the cover blurb, Publisher's Weekly, a professional review, etc. No, sometimes I want to read about a person's gut reaction to a book, how it made him or her feel. How she was drawn to the characters and couldn't put the book down. How she felt a connection to the events. How she came to get the book and how her OFF-TOPIC backstory made her interested in the book and love it. And so, that is my review of this book. It's meandering and OFF-TOPIC, but it is not one of the Mad Libs reviews you can find in a bajillion places. It is from my heart. I loved this book - sure, it was slow in places and sometimes I got lost in the writing, but I enjoyed the hell out of it and felt like I learned a lot (as I'm no historian, I have no clue how accurate to the time period it really is, but it at least FELT real). And when I'm looking for a book to read, perusing my friends' reviews, what I want is HEART not just another manufactured, soulless review. ...more Odli\u010dna, odli\u010dna, odli\u010dna knjiga! Stroga pravila i obi\u010daji carske Kine i jedna \u017eena koja se od siroma\u0161tva do carice probila isklju\u010divo pomo\u0107u svoje pameti i dosjetljivosti. Spletke, ubojstva, enusi, carske prile\u017enice i slom carske Kine, sve ispri\u010dano kroz o\u010di carice Orhideje. Njezini strahovi, ljubav i osje\u0107aji i razmi\u0161ljanja opisani su jednako sjajno i istan\u010dano kao i velike carske povorke ili detalji na noktima ili haljinama. I read this book several years ago, and I thought it was about time for a re-read, especially since I remembered it as being a good read. What I found interesting was the differences from how I remembered it. It was shorter than I recalled, and more brutal and heart-wrenching. What I enjoy the most about Empress Orchid , and Anchee Min\u2019s writing in general, is her skill at description. She knows how to turn a phrase in an interesting and quirky way that grabs the attention and at the same time fee I read this book several years ago, and I thought it was about time for a re-read, especially since I remembered it as being a good read. What I found interesting was the differences from how I remembered it. It was shorter than I recalled, and more brutal and heart-wrenching. What I enjoy the most about Empress Orchid , and Anchee Min\u2019s writing in general, is her skill at description. She knows how to turn a phrase in an interesting and quirky way that grabs the attention and at the same time feeds the reader information, and it\u2019s all done through show not tell, without info-dumping. Min\u2019s writing style has been described as \u201ceccentric\u201d and awkward, but I disagree. It has a wonderful deft touch and flow to it that makes it feel natural and thoughtful. The driving force that carries the story is, of course, Orchid herself. Min writes Orchid\u2019s character with incredible humanity. Orchid\u2019s story begins with hardship, which Orchid uses her wits and extraordinary luck to escape. But over time her regrets pile up, and Min portrays this with great poignancy. (view spoiler) [Orchid discovers that life in the Forbidden City is meaningless and hollow, and almost cannot bear the prospect that her life will be lived without love \u2013 it\u2019s the kind of human regret we can all identify with \u2013 yet, the funny thing about regret, and which is certainly true in Orchid\u2019s case, is that she did everything she could to escape the other life she could have had, a life of hard work, poverty, and an unwilling marriage, and there was never any guarantee that her life would have been happier on the outside. (hide spoiler) ] Yet, her feelings are ones we can all identify and empathise with. Orchid is practical, frustrated, forthright, smart, and imperfect \u2013 and I identified with her as a reader because of that. Don\u2019t we all dwell on our own imperfections, regret the choices we\u2019ve made, and imagine others\u2019 lives to be perfect? She\u2019s definitely a character I rooted for. Life in the Forbidden City felt insular and Min succeeded in creating a real sense of cabin fever that really came through to me. I have to admit, my knowledge of East Asian history is minimal, so I can\u2019t testify to the accuracy of Min\u2019s portrayal. I applaud the way she weaves relevant historical details into the narrative without making it clumsy or plonking it down in laborious chunks. What little I know of Cixi (Orchid) suggests she was a formidable and ruthless character, and not a terribly likable person. However, Min creates a character who is very sympathetic. Due to my lack of knowledge, I\u2019m left wondering whether the accepted idea of Cixi is real, or whether Min\u2019s portrait, which implies that Cixi\u2019s reputation was exaggerated and blackened by her enemies, is a more realistic vision. 9 out of 10 ...more I enjoyed this story. It's the first time I've read author, Anchee Min, and I think she crafted an interesting look at China in the mid 1800's. The Forbidden City where the Emperor and his wives, concubines and eunuchs lived has always been of interest to me. I like stories about palace intrigues and this was a good one. I will read the sequel and other books I can find by the author. I picked it up on a whim as I was looking for a different book on the shelves of my library and my intuition was I enjoyed this story. It's the first time I've read author, Anchee Min, and I think she crafted an interesting look at China in the mid 1800's. The Forbidden City where the Emperor and his wives, concubines and eunuchs lived has always been of interest to me. I like stories about palace intrigues and this was a good one. I will read the sequel and other books I can find by the author. I picked it up on a whim as I was looking for a different book on the shelves of my library and my intuition was spot on that I would like it. ...more I really wanted to love this book. I loved the author's autobiography (RED AZELEA) and her novel (KATHERINE)about a foreign English teacher in China, so I expected EMPRESS ORCHID to bring together her amazing talent for prose narrative in English, enhanced with her first-hand research of Chinese sources, to bring to life the mis-judged history of Empress Dowager Tz'u Hsi. [return][return]I anticipated some embellishments, but the total re-creation of <---C>Tzu Hsi</---C> as \"Orchid\", into a kind of modern wo I really wanted to love this book. I loved the author's autobiography (RED AZELEA) and her novel (KATHERINE)about a foreign English teacher in China, so I expected EMPRESS ORCHID to bring together her amazing talent for prose narrative in English, enhanced with her first-hand research of Chinese sources, to bring to life the mis-judged history of Empress Dowager Tz'u Hsi. [return][return]I anticipated some embellishments, but the total re-creation of Tzu Hsi as \"Orchid\", into a kind of modern woman-warrior, was too much for me. To ask the reader to believe that an uneducated female was able to \"pick up\" enough formal literary Chinese to be able to read court documents is stretching history way too far. Wouldn't it have made a more fascinating story to construe how Orchid was able to hold onto power so long in spite of being illiterate? [return][return]The first third of the book is a masterful depiction of the sights, smells, sounds, social structure, of late 19th Century China, and would have gained 5 stars, but the rest devolved into conjecture after conjecture which mix like sour notes in an otherwise brilliant composition. It's a novel, but it's not a historical novel. Moreover, I $en$ed that the whole $tory was being pitched to the $maller mind$ of Hollywood in hope of a movie deal. I felt like the author let down her loyal fans while trying to ride her own popularity to chase the $$. [return][return]The best part of Empress Orchid is the list of 5 tone-setting quotations from other sources in the facing page prior to the map (unnumbered pages). One of these quotes is from Sterling Seagrave from his book DRAGON LADY: THE LIFE AND LEGEND OF THE LAST EMPRESS OF CHINA, which refers to the fact that in 1974 most of the previously trusted scholarship on Tzu Hsi had been revealed as counterfeit. This led me to buy Seagrave's book, which explores the falsehoods of these earlier works, and turns into a fluid and fascinating narrative that is truly Biographical History. [return][return]In short, you can choose to spend your precious time on 336 pages of a fictional romance novel (Empress Orchid), or 463 pages of intelligent, delicious historical biography (followed by 135 pages of fascinating notes and complete index). As a student of Chinese language, literature, and history, I recommend reading Seagrave's book first. ...more The book follows the story of Tzu Hsi (known as Orchid) who enters the Forbidden City as one of the Emperors concubines at the age of seventeen. Over time she seduces the Emperor and bears his son, which means an immediate rise in rank to 2nd Empress (1st Empress is Nuharoo). We see her struggle to keep the Emperor's interest whilst battling with Nuharoo to be allowed to raise her child herself (normal custom is for the first Empress to take over). When the Emperor dies, and names Orchid's son a The book follows the story of Tzu Hsi (known as Orchid) who enters the Forbidden City as one of the Emperors concubines at the age of seventeen. Over time she seduces the Emperor and bears his son, which means an immediate rise in rank to 2nd Empress (1st Empress is Nuharoo). We see her struggle to keep the Emperor's interest whilst battling with Nuharoo to be allowed to raise her child herself (normal custom is for the first Empress to take over). When the Emperor dies, and names Orchid's son as heir, the two Empresses take over as regents, and a battle for power ensues with Su Shun - the Emperor's right-hand man. The two Empresses struggle to hold up the country under increasing pressure from foreign armies. This is a wonderfully gripping story. Its exotic setting and fascinating subject matter makes it compelling reading. The book is also very well researched, and as such I believe it is part biography, part fiction. It's based on the story of Ci Xi - China's last Empress. Whilst in History, she's portrayed as ruthless and power hungry, in this book we see her as a (relatively) normal women, struggling with the customs of the Forbidden City. A woman who just wants the best for the people and country she loves. I was fascinated (and sometimes horrified!) to read about the laws and the customs inside the Forbidden City, for instance I had never realised that the Emperor's wives were not allowed to do anything for themselves or on their own (even going to the toilet, they were accompanied). I'm not sure I could have lived like that! Also the punishments were very severe - in some cases for the most trivial of things! My feelings towards the characters changed somewhat throughout the book. From the beginning I had a real empathy for Orchid, and this remained throughout, however whilst I quite liked Nuharoo at the beginning, I found myself more and more frustrated with the way she was acting, to the point where I found myself becoming angry with her. This softened slightly towards the end, but I still didn't like her much. The Emperor really annoyed me at the beginning of the book, but as the story progressed and we saw a different side to him, I actually started to quite like him! It took me a while to read, as I found the subject matter required more concentration than other books I'd read, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. I'll definitely be picking up the sequel. ...more This book intrigued me because of the summary I read on the inside flap, how this person seduced the emperor. It was even more appealing that this was basically a documentary of a person\u2019s life. It provided a nice reprieve from the modern Chinese novels that I had been reading recently. I liked learning about the imperial court life by learning about the culture and the politics. It made me appreciate it more, and realize what a great loss the country suffered when Communism eventually made its This book intrigued me because of the summary I read on the inside flap, how this person seduced the emperor. It was even more appealing that this was basically a documentary of a person\u2019s life. It provided a nice reprieve from the modern Chinese novels that I had been reading recently. I liked learning about the imperial court life by learning about the culture and the politics. It made me appreciate it more, and realize what a great loss the country suffered when Communism eventually made its way around (which would happen much later). It also put the whole sphere of influence into a different perspective and how China must have felt, knowing that they were at the start of civilization, and for all of it\u2019s inventions and pomp and circumstance, still was defenseless against any person that opposed their standard beliefs. (Though, the Manchus had done that to the Chinese). I also liked the emphasis on Manchu vs Chinese, because that is rarely hi-lighted and I hadn't even heard of it before. ...more The first grown-up movie (a movie with subtitles, adult themes, and not based on a comic book or video game) I ever saw was The Last Emperor . I saw it pre-high school. I can't remember why I wanted to see it. I can remember really wanting to see it and loving it. I still love it. So it should be no surprise that the first Anchee Min book I pick up is this one. At this point, I should let you know that I know very little about Chinese history so I cannot judge this book on its historical accuracy The first grown-up movie (a movie with subtitles, adult themes, and not based on a comic book or video game) I ever saw was The Last Emperor . I saw it pre-high school. I can't remember why I wanted to see it. I can remember really wanting to see it and loving it. I still love it. So it should be no surprise that the first Anchee Min book I pick up is this one. At this point, I should let you know that I know very little about Chinese history so I cannot judge this book on its historical accuracy (though I have a biography of the women in question waiting in TBR stack). Most of what I know about Chinese history is from the following sources: general history books, the Chinese pavillion at Epoct Center, the History Channel, Romance of the Three Kingdoms, Vol. 1 and other various Chinese folklore, legend, and poetry I've read. So I basically know next to nothing. Min, at least for me, brings to life the Forbidden City. It becomes suffocating real. In general, there are two types of historical fiction (once you disregard trashy romance novels. No, I don't want to read a trashy romance novel about the love affair between Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn. I know what happens afterwards. Kinda ruins the romance just a bit). Both types of historical fiction have several things in common and are, for lack of a better term, revisionist. In many cases, the writer will set out to rescue a maligned figure from history. If not this, the writer will use a horrible, tragic event to illustrate a greater human theme (love, forgiveness, surival). Macbeth, Mary Queen of Scots, Cleopatra, and Gengsis Khan have all been subjected to this treatment. Sometimes revisionist historical fiction wants to add a romance where there wasn't one or to make more of a romance then what it really was, a virgin to a non-virgin. But that is where the similarities end. The first type is the good type of historical fiction. If the novel is about a tragic event, the overwhelming scope is impossible to ignore and the reader leaves the book thinking. Really thinking, adding those wrinkles to that brain. If the novel is about a maligned figure from history, the character is presented flaws and all. This too gets the reader to think and even gets the reader to read actual history. The second type of historical fiction doesn't function this way. In fact, for me, in general, this type of historical fiction doesn't usually work at all. It takes the maligned character and makes her (such characters in this second type are pre-dominately females) a saintly figure. Forget about being more sinned against than sinning, in these novels the character is a saint surronded by madmen, sexist pigs, vampy women, and stupid, cruel people. In this type, the central malgined figure is really a good guy or tragic woman who got the bum rap. The historical good figure who wrote the history books is the devil incarnate. This type of historical fiction is like candy corn. Addicting but lacking in substance. Min, thankfully for her and this review, writers the first kind, the better, historical fiction. After reading the Reader's Group Guide for the book, the reader would be convinced that Min was drawn to the character of Orchid because her intriging character and, perhaps, to a similiarity to Madame Mao. Min also seems to want to move beyond the evil woman syndrome. While she doesn't use the phrase \"resuce her reputation from history\", it does seem to a degree that Min is trying to do so. Yet, this book is not re-telling of a saintly figure surroned by people who do bad things while transfering the blame for such behavior on her, despite Orchid's seemingly desire to make her story do so. For that is the key to this book's success. Min presents a real figure, a narrator who reveals more about herself than the action of the tale. Orchid starts her story with the death of her father moving quickly to her marriage to the Emperor of China. After her marriage, she is sequestered (or imprisioned) in the Forbidden City and is caught up in marriage politics (she is one of many wives), power politics, and the fall of China to those darn heathen forgieners. Orchid has to survie not only the jealously of her fellow wives, her weak willed husband, but also the power struggle among the men of the court, men who see her as nothing more than a womb. Min lets Orchid have control of her own story. This means that Orchid says one thing but something else may be going on. A jealous wife may be an evil witch or maybe not. Is the Emperor really that weak and Orchid that strong? This stops Orchid from becoming a milk sop or a door mat. She takes control of her own story and doesn't care if the reader likes her. Or at least, she will not admit that she cares or wants the reader's goodwill. ...more Drama cinta dan kekuasaan selir muda Kaisar Hsien Feng... Indah, menawan, dan penuh intrik. Tzu Hsi Yehonala, atau yang dalam bahasa Cina berarti anggrek adalah seorang Maharani, terlebih dia kaisar wanita yang paling lama berkuasa di Cina. Tapi Anggrek tidak mencapai posisi itu dengan mudah. Dia yang dulu hanyalah gadis desa, berhasil mendapatkan kekuasaan lewat rayuan, intrik politik, dan kecerdasan luar biasa. Anggrek dulu hanyalah gadis berumur 17 tahun dari klan Yehonala, salah satu klan peng Drama cinta dan kekuasaan selir muda Kaisar Hsien Feng... Indah, menawan, dan penuh intrik. Tzu Hsi Yehonala, atau yang dalam bahasa Cina berarti anggrek adalah seorang Maharani, terlebih dia kaisar wanita yang paling lama berkuasa di Cina. Tapi Anggrek tidak mencapai posisi itu dengan mudah. Dia yang dulu hanyalah gadis desa, berhasil mendapatkan kekuasaan lewat rayuan, intrik politik, dan kecerdasan luar biasa. Anggrek dulu hanyalah gadis berumur 17 tahun dari klan Yehonala, salah satu klan penguasa Manchu di Cina. Ditinggal mati ayahnya seorang mantan gubernur miskin, Anggrek dan keluarganya harus mencari cara untuk hidup di tengah kerasnya dunia. Sebagai anak sulung, Anggrek akan melakukan segala cara untuk melindungi keluarganya, termasuk menikahi sepupunya yang terbelakang. Nasib baik melindunginya, karena sebelum pernikahannya, ada pemberitahuan dari istana bahwa Kaisar Hsien Feng sedang mencari istri. Merasa dirinya memenuhi syarat, Anggrek pun mengumpulkan keberaniannya dan menghadap Kantor Pemerintah. Beruntung, dia diloloskan dan menjalani pemeriksaan ketat untuk menjadi istri. Para kasim dan dayang meloloskan dirinya, dan beberapa bulan kemudian, bersama dua ratus orang gadis Manchu lainnya, Anggrek pun berangkat ke istana. Dalam pertemuannya dengan Kaisar Hsien Feng, Anggrek membuat sang Kaisar tertarik dengan kegugupan dan senyum rahasianya. Kaisar pun dengan ringan meloloskan dirinya sebagai salah satu dari tujuh istri resmi Kaisar. Anggrek sulit mempercayai dirinya sendiri ketika dia akhirnya menjadi Selir tingkat keempat Kaisar. Membawa gairah dan harapan, Anggrek berambisi menjadi selir kesayangan Kaisar. Tapi malang baginya, ternyata Kaisar telah melupakannya. Anggrek kini hanyalah salah satu dari 3000 Selir Istana. Pantang menyerah dan dengan dukungan kasim setianya An-te-hai, Anggrek akhirnya berhasil memikat Kaisar dan menjadi selir kesayangannya. Hidup di Kota Terlarang bagaikan peperangan dalam merebut perhatian Kaisar, satu-satunya lelaki dari 3000 wanita di sana. Berkali-kali Anggrek berusaha dijebak karena kecemburuan para wanita, terutama Nuharoo sang Permaisuri. Dalam pertahanannya, diam-diam tiap malam Anggrek belajar dari Kaisar tentang politik ketika Kaisar menceritakan traktrat-traktat Cina dengan bangsa asing. Politik adalah dunia yang dianggap tabu bagi wanita, tapi Anggrek dengan kecerdasannya berhasil menutupi kepandaiannya hingga saatnya muncul. Kaisar Hsien Feng adalah Kaisar yang lemah, yang tergantung pada Su Shun penasihat utamanya. Tak jarang dia membuat Anggrek frustasi dengan kesombongannya, ketidaksensitifannya, dan kepengecutannya. Saat Anggrek sedang hamil tua, dia bersenang-senang dengan para gadis Cina dan menelatarkan Anggrek. Perhatiannya baru kembali ketika Anggrek melahirkan seorang bayi laki-laki yang diberi nama Tung Chih. Tapi kebahagiaan Anggrek akan perhatian Kaisar yang kembali tidak bertahan lama. Kaisar Hsien Feng akhirnya meninggal dunia pada umurnya yang begitu muda karena penyakit dan stress, tiga puluh tahun, meninggalkan permaisuri dan selir-selirnya. Gigih mengajari anaknya Tung Chih sang Kaisar Muda agar tidak mengikuti jejak ayahnya, Anggrek menerima perlakuan dingin dan pemberontakan dari sang Kaisar Muda. Tung Chih malah akrab dengan Nuharoo, membuat Anggrek merasa cemburu dan semakin kesepian. Anggrek di tengah penderitaannya bertemu Yung Lu, bawahan Su Shun yang pandai, tampan, dan setia padanya. Tapi Anggrek harus melawan kebutuhannya akan keintiman, karena statusnya sebagai janda Kaisar tidak mengizinkannya memiliki hubungan apapun dengan lelaki. Anggrek mendapatkan segalanya, tetapi juga kehilangan segalanya. Harga dari keberhasilannya bertahan adalah sederetan pengorbanan pribadi serta penderitaan. Kesepian yang mendalam adalah harga yang harus ditanggungnya sebagai seorang Maharani. Anggrek adalah perempuan yang berhasil berhasil bertahan dan akhirnya mendominasi... dunia laki-laki. Mengapa mataku gagal menemukan kesenangan di ruangan yang penuh dengan harta benda ini? Pelayan-pelayan mendaniku dengan jubah-jubah cantik. Aku berjalan ke meja rias, dan melihat kecantikan tiada tara. Aku berputar mengamati perlengkan kamar, panel-panel mozaiknya yang penuh dengan batu mulia dan hasil panen yang berlimpah. Hatiku menjerit : Apa lagi yang masih, bisa, dan berani kau inginkan, Anggrek? ...more Anggrek ( Tzu Hsi ) adalah anak Hui Cheng Yehonala, mantan taotai (Gubernur) di sebuah kota kecil beranama Wuhu, di Propinsi Anhwei, propinsi termiskin di Cina. Masa kecilnya tidak pernah mudah. Terutama setelah ayahnya dipecat Kaisar Tao Kang karena tidak mampu menahan pemberontakan petani yang putus asa karena kemarau panjang. Ayahnya mati dirundung malu. Bahkan demi memakamkan ayahnya di kota kelahirannya, Peking, mereka meninggalkan Wuhu tanpa harta sedikitpun. Di Peking, Anggrek mendengar tentang Anggrek ( Tzu Hsi ) adalah anak Hui Cheng Yehonala, mantan taotai (Gubernur) di sebuah kota kecil beranama Wuhu, di Propinsi Anhwei, propinsi termiskin di Cina. Masa kecilnya tidak pernah mudah. Terutama setelah ayahnya dipecat Kaisar Tao Kang karena tidak mampu menahan pemberontakan petani yang putus asa karena kemarau panjang. Ayahnya mati dirundung malu. Bahkan demi memakamkan ayahnya di kota kelahirannya, Peking, mereka meninggalkan Wuhu tanpa harta sedikitpun. Di Peking, Anggrek mendengar tentang berita tentang Kaisar Hsien Feng (anak dari Kaisar Tao Kang) sedang mencari tujuh istri dan 3000 (mak?!!) selir dari keturunan Manchu. Anggrek pun mendaftar dengan harapan bisa memperbaiki kondisi keluarganya yang sengsara. Siapa sangka, tidak hanya dia berhasil menjadi selir kesayangan, tapi juga menjadi satu-satu nya yang mampu melahirkan anak laki-laki, Tung Chih, yang menjadi putra mahkota. Detail mengenai lokasi dan tradisi Kota Terlarang membuat saya betah membaca buku ini. Bagaimana kehidupan Permaisuri dan para selir bukan lah suatu hal yang glamour seperti yang ada dipikiran gadis lain seantero Cina. Saya tak bisa membayangkan bahwa buang air besar pun mereka tidak boleh sendirian, karena harus ada yang menemani dan melayani. Hadeeeeh.. Yang menyedihkan adalah, belum tentu ketujuh istri dan 3000 selir itu bisa menghabiskan malam dengan Kaisar. Waktu penantian digambarkan hingga pembaca ikut tersiksa. Saya bahkan tergoda memutar Waiting in Vain saat membaca bagian ini. Bagaimana Anggrek menahan rasa cemburu saat istri yang lain telah mengandung, kecantikan Permaisuri Utama, heboh mempersiapkan tari kipas pada malam pertama nya dengan Kaisar, mempertahankan kehormatan suami nya, memperjuangkan kedudukan anaknya, sangat detail diceritakan dalam balutan emosi Anggrek sebagai sudut pandang orang pertama. Ada banyak hal yang bisa saya ambil dari buku ini. Selain saya menjadi tahu sedikit lebih banyak tentang Sejarah Dinasti Chi'ing (Qing) , saya juga belajar bagaimana kehidupan istri-istri yang berbagi suami, susahnya mendidik anak yang manja, sampai bagaimana membangun 'karier' dengan mempertahankan orang-orang yang terpercaya dan memiliki kapabilitas tinggi di bidang masing-masing. Yang pasti, saya berdoa mudah-mudahan saya tidak akan mempunyai suami seperi Kaisar Hsien Feng yang tidak bisa mengambil keputusan. Hanya bisa mengeluh dan menyalahkan orang lain tanpa memberikan solusi. Lemah dan lembek. Mudah-mudahan anak saya tidak semanja dan sekurang ajar Tung Chih. *Amiiiin* Walaupun setelah dipikir-pikir, mungkin karakter Hsien Feng dan Tung Chih seperti itu untuk membuat kepribadian Anggrek menjadi lebih kuat. Mungkin jika Hsien Feng seorang yang tangguh, Anggrek tidak akan menjadi selir kesayangannya, tidak akan menjadi Maharani termashyur dari Dinasti terakhir yang menguasai Cina. Segala sesuatu memang sudah ada pasangannya, sudah ada jalannya. Tinggal bagaimana kita mengambil sikap untuk menjalaninya Wallahualam #edisi sok bijak, wekekekek PS: *buku ini pinjem dari Kak Mute * source lain ttg Tzu Hsi di bagian belakang buku ini ada sesi wawancara dengan Anchee Min yang menyebutkan kalau banyak manuskrip Cina yang memojokkan Maharani Anggrek. Bahkan menuduh sebagai salah satu dari penyebab kejatuhan Dinasti Qing. Karena saya belum membaca The Last Empress yang merupakan lanjutan dari buku ini, jadi belum tau sebenarnya bagaimana penulis menempatkan posisi Maharani Anggrek Cari Pinjeman dulu aaaah.. ...more I didn't enjoy this book as much as \"Becoming Madame Mao\" and \"Red Azalea,\" and would be more apt to award it 3 and a half stars if that rating were available. Regardless, the book depicts a fascinating time in Chinese history. Imperial China, deeply rooted in ritual and tradition, comes alive in Min's novel about the last Empress of China, Tzu Hsi. I enjoy rags to riches stories, but this one comes at a cost. Imperial life is lavish, yet stifling. The Forbidden City is a place of danger and intr I didn't enjoy this book as much as \"Becoming Madame Mao\" and \"Red Azalea,\" and would be more apt to award it 3 and a half stars if that rating were available. Regardless, the book depicts a fascinating time in Chinese history. Imperial China, deeply rooted in ritual and tradition, comes alive in Min's novel about the last Empress of China, Tzu Hsi. I enjoy rags to riches stories, but this one comes at a cost. Imperial life is lavish, yet stifling. The Forbidden City is a place of danger and intrigue, and Min works to build tension and suspense in Orchid's early life as one of seven wives to the Emperor. She doesn't achieve this as efficiently as she does in \"Madame Mao,\" or \"Red Azalea,\" whose danger feels more immediate and developed. This may be due to the author's distance from the material, as she is a survivor of the Cultural Revolution and obviously more in tune with the trials of that time. Nevertheless, \"Empress Orchid\" has great moments. Min writes Orchid well. I think she captures an essence of Orchid that only a Chinese woman can. I really enjoyed the slow transformation Orchid makes from naive nobody to Empress. Min creates a conflicted and charged character without twisting her to Western ideals or subjecting her to a 21st century makeover. Some say that Orchid is flat, or wished to see more emotion from her, criticizing Min's talent for character development, but I think Orchid's careful reflection and suppressed emotion are more appropriate for a girl/woman from her time and culture. Passion, at least its expression, seems to be a western privilege and ideal, and Orchid's world consists of much more calculation and precision. I find Min portrays this, and am thankful for it, although it may make for less steamy, page-turning reading. As Orchid moves up in the Emperor's favor, Min takes the opportunity to splice in historical anecdotes, including references to the Opium Wars and their aftermath/implications for China. In a twist, the Emperor refers to the Western invaders (Britain, France, US, Russia) as \"barbarians,\" and this gives Western readers a chance to reflect on their own history books which depict that same history, but in a Western \"voice.\" These historical/political digressions and Min's heavy description on Imperial art and everyday life do slow down the novel's otherwise engrossing story about manipulation, power, and (at times) seduction, but perhaps this makes the story more rounded? I'm not sure these parts flow seamlessly, as if Min is not sure which type of book she'd like to write, but I did appreciate each part on its own. Min's research has been called in to question with \"Empress Orchid,\" but the fact remains that little is known about Tzu Hsi, yet she stands as a notorious and unloved figure in both Chinese and Western history. I appreciate Min's spin on the Empress as an alternative, or supplement, to history, but do not forget, as a reader, that this is a fictional account and should never be interpreted in place of history. After I finish \"The Last Empress,\" Min's sequel to this book depicting the majority of Tzu Hsi's reign, I may feel more in a position to criticize Min's historical fiction on this period. ...more Empress Orchid is the first book in a duology which follows Orchid Yehonala, or better known as Empress Dowager Cixi. In this first book we see her life as a young and poor Manchu girl, and how she decides to compete to become one of the Emperor's wives. I really enjoyed this historical novel. I don't think I've ever read one set in China, and I know absolutely nothing about Chinese history and culture, so everything about this story was new and unexpected to me. The dangers Orchid has to face, a Empress Orchid is the first book in a duology which follows Orchid Yehonala, or better known as Empress Dowager Cixi. In this first book we see her life as a young and poor Manchu girl, and how she decides to compete to become one of the Emperor's wives. I really enjoyed this historical novel. I don't think I've ever read one set in China, and I know absolutely nothing about Chinese history and culture, so everything about this story was new and unexpected to me. The dangers Orchid has to face, and even most of the royal traditions, are almost unbelievable. For example, (view spoiler) [once our heroine almost gets executed because she talked before the Emperor's first wife, who has an higher rank than her. (hide spoiler) ] So yes, if you think Henry VIII's England was a bad place for women, just know that this was much worse! I always found the plot engaging and interesting. The first two hundred pages especially were difficult to put down. I adored reading about what Orchid did to be chosen as a wife, and what she did later to gain the Emperor's interest. After she becomes his favourite, the story got a little slower, in my opinion, but gained again speed after (view spoiler) [the Emperor's death (hide spoiler) ] . Overall, my interest for the story was always kept alive, thanks to the countless dangers and the fascinating but also disturbing traditions. Another reason I liked the story was its main character. Orchid is an admirable woman. I don't know how she was in real life, and I know this is quite a sympathetic portrayal of her; but still, as a character I really liked her. She is a strong, brave, daring and smart woman. She doesn't stop at nothing to protect herself and later her son, and even if some of her decisions are questionable you always understand why she acts the way she does, and you always want her to succeed. I'm honestly very curious to see how she will evolve in the next book. Overall, Empress Orchid was a truly enjoyable and fascinating read, and I highly recommended it to fans of historical fiction. Hopefully, I will get my hands on the sequel as soon as possible. ...more \u0160i knyga pilna lygiagre\u010di\u0173 istorij\u0173 ir emocij\u0173,manau autor\u0117 atliko puik\u0173 darb\u0105 taip sustiprindama pagrindin\u0117s veik\u0117jos pie\u0161iam\u0105 paveiksl\u0105. Kas man i\u0161 karto patiko: nors imperatorius tur\u0117jo daug \u017emon\u0173 ir sugulovi\u0173,Orchid\u0117ja nusprend\u0117 palikti p\u0117dsak\u0105 istorijoje ir negyventi eilinio, pilko ir ne\u017eymaus imperatoriaus sugulov\u0117s gyvenimo. Knyga pilna svarbi\u0173 detali\u0173, kurios padeda susidaryti ai\u0161k\u0173 ir neapsakom\u0105 vaizd\u0105 \u012f to meto gyvenimo b\u016bd\u0105, U\u017edraustojo miesto aplink\u0105. \u012edomiai ir pritraukian\u010diai apra\u0161 \u0160i knyga pilna lygiagre\u010di\u0173 istorij\u0173 ir emocij\u0173,manau autor\u0117 atliko puik\u0173 darb\u0105 taip sustiprindama pagrindin\u0117s veik\u0117jos pie\u0161iam\u0105 paveiksl\u0105. Kas man i\u0161 karto patiko: nors imperatorius tur\u0117jo daug \u017emon\u0173 ir sugulovi\u0173,Orchid\u0117ja nusprend\u0117 palikti p\u0117dsak\u0105 istorijoje ir negyventi eilinio, pilko ir ne\u017eymaus imperatoriaus sugulov\u0117s gyvenimo. Knyga pilna svarbi\u0173 detali\u0173, kurios padeda susidaryti ai\u0161k\u0173 ir neapsakom\u0105 vaizd\u0105 \u012f to meto gyvenimo b\u016bd\u0105, U\u017edraustojo miesto aplink\u0105. \u012edomiai ir pritraukian\u010diai apra\u0161omos \u012fvairios tradicijos,meninis Kinijos gyvenimas ir \u0161vent\u0117s. Kartais puslapiai buvo persmelkti li\u016bdesio,nes Orchid\u0117ja stengiasi nepasiduoti u\u017emar\u0161\u010diai ir ne\u017einomybei d\u0117l tolimesnio likimo, kovoti su li\u016bdnu ir vienatv\u0117s pilnu sugulov\u0117s likimu. Beskaitydama \u0161i\u0105 knyg\u0105 tikrai susi\u017eav\u0117jau Orchid\u0117ja, jos protu, i\u0161radingumu. Tam kad pasiekt\u0173 savo viet\u0105 po saule (ir tiesiogine ir netiesiogine prasme) ji padar\u0117 tai k\u0105 sugeb\u0117jo geriausia ir dar daugiau. Vienas i\u0161 netik\u0117t\u0173 moment\u0173 kai ji slap\u010dia nuvyko \u012f vie\u0161nam\u012f kad i\u0161mokt\u0173 meil\u0117s meno, nors buvo grie\u017etai saugoma. Su\u017eav\u0117jo tai kad nepaisant auk\u0161tos pad\u0117ties ji sugeb\u0117jo i\u0161likti tokia pati ir neprarado savojo \"a\u0161\", nebuvo praryta visa apiman\u010dio U\u017edraustojo miesto \u0161e\u0161\u0117lio. Man labai patiko kad ji nor\u0117jo padaryti visk\u0105 kas \u012fmanoma d\u0117l savo s\u016bnaus, padaryti j\u012f tikru imperatoriumi, kuris supranta savo taut\u0105, jos kult\u016br\u0105, istorij\u0105 ir tai puosel\u0117ja. Ji - labai dr\u0105si ir protinga asmenyb\u0117. ...more Empress Orchid was one of those books which left me in the state of oblivion. To put it simply, the book wasn't impactful at all and simply forgettable. This book tells the beginnings of Ci Xi, known here affectionately as Orchid. Because Orchid is the protagonist, Empress Orchid does boarder on being too one sided and opinionated. For example, Orchid's 'rival', Nuharoo, is often depicted as childlike and less intelligent. She is, by Orchid's account a woman of leisure who is petty and resorts to Empress Orchid was one of those books which left me in the state of oblivion. To put it simply, the book wasn't impactful at all and simply forgettable. This book tells the beginnings of Ci Xi, known here affectionately as Orchid. Because Orchid is the protagonist, Empress Orchid does boarder on being too one sided and opinionated. For example, Orchid's 'rival', Nuharoo, is often depicted as childlike and less intelligent. She is, by Orchid's account a woman of leisure who is petty and resorts to dirty tactics in a fit of jealousy. The point is, Nuharoo is silver to Orchid's gold. Nuharoo covered her ears. \u201cStop it! There is nothing I can do about this.\u201d She grabbed my hands. \u201cLeave these matters to men, please!\u201d \u201cShe was the kind who would lose sleep over the smallest flaw in her embroidery, but not if we lost an important term in a treaty.\u201d \u201cNuharoo didn\u2019t want to bother. \u201cA wise lady ought to spend her life appreciating the beauty of nature, preserving her yin element and pursuing her longevity.\u201d The comparison goes on and on and on, until the author is as whiny as her protagonist, Orchid. I can't decide if I actually like Orchid, but since there is an accompanying book, The Last Empress , I'll give it a try before I decide! 3.5 stars ...more This book is filled with drama, intrique, loyalty, corruption, forbidden love and mystery. The Forbidden City is a totally different world for the book's heroine, Orchid, who becomes one of the Emperor's wives at the age of 17. Ms. Min has written a spellbinding novel, with colorful and interesting characters, rich detail and a vivid, interesting history of China, complete with details on customs, rituals and distictions between the Manchu's and the Chinese. Orchid and her eunech, An-te-hai will This book is filled with drama, intrique, loyalty, corruption, forbidden love and mystery. The Forbidden City is a totally different world for the book's heroine, Orchid, who becomes one of the Emperor's wives at the age of 17. Ms. Min has written a spellbinding novel, with colorful and interesting characters, rich detail and a vivid, interesting history of China, complete with details on customs, rituals and distictions between the Manchu's and the Chinese. Orchid and her eunech, An-te-hai will keep the reader spellbound. This is the first book that I've read by Ms. Min and I couldn't put it down!! ...more So my friend set up a book group at the end of last year and I'm now part of a real-world, actual in-person book group - rather than various online ones that I've tried and found unsatisfying. This was our first pick (selection process is made by everyone putting a choice into a hat and then one being picked out). Historical fiction is a new area for me really, and I'm not sure this was the best book to start with. There are many things good and interesting about the book, but it didn't click fo So my friend set up a book group at the end of last year and I'm now part of a real-world, actual in-person book group - rather than various online ones that I've tried and found unsatisfying. This was our first pick (selection process is made by everyone putting a choice into a hat and then one being picked out). Historical fiction is a new area for me really, and I'm not sure this was the best book to start with. There are many things good and interesting about the book, but it didn't click for me. I'm not sure if I'd just rather read a non-fiction book about the person, or subject, rather than a fictionalised work. However, I understand that a written history can also be biased, inaccurate, or one-sided (sounds like Dragon Lady: The Life and Legend of the Last Empress of China might be an example) and often historical information is very much 'who knows?' anyway, so at least a fictionalised account is knowingly presenting you with a hypothetical. I think my main problem with this came not from it being historical fiction, but with the way it was written. The way that a few things were Anglicised (e.g. her name, Orchid) and yet the majority wasn't seem very odd to me. I like consistency. Sometimes I also felt that things were just going nowhere. There'd be large chunks where I just felt like nothing was happening and it was all just descriptions of opulence. Which is fine, and they were very interesting (as were the descriptions of all the ceremonial and superstitious aspects of life in The Forbidden City), but without balance they get a bit much. The depiction of Chinese history from a non-Western viewpoint was very interesting and, from about half-way in, the growing feeling of the 'barbarians' closing in around you and China diminishing was very well done. The depiction of Chinese culture, which I know little about, was also very interesting. However, the story overall didn't do a lot for me which is why it's merely 'ok'. And what on earth was that ending? Was it meant to be romantic? It was just confusing. What on earth was An-te-hai up to with his coat? I don't understand that at all. I just can't quite push it over to three stars. I may well read the follow-up to this at some point, to read about her later life. I'll certainly be doing a bit of research into the Dowager Empress regardless. An interesting person, so that book has at least introduced me to her. I'll be interested to read some more historical fiction in future, I've got my eye on HHhH , which has been highly recommended to me. ...more The author, Amchee Min, was born in Shanghai and came of age in China during the Cultural Revolution, and still visits there regularly. Being able to read Chinese, Min was able to extensively research her period using primary sources. I therefore trusted her depiction of late Ching dynasty China is fairly accurate. This novel is told as the first person account of China's infamous \"Dowager Empress,\" Tzu Hsi aka Red Orchid, who came to the Forbidden City as one of the Emperor's brides when she wa The author, Amchee Min, was born in Shanghai and came of age in China during the Cultural Revolution, and still visits there regularly. Being able to read Chinese, Min was able to extensively research her period using primary sources. I therefore trusted her depiction of late Ching dynasty China is fairly accurate. This novel is told as the first person account of China's infamous \"Dowager Empress,\" Tzu Hsi aka Red Orchid, who came to the Forbidden City as one of the Emperor's brides when she was seventeen in 1853. Min presents a sympathetic portrait of a woman that contemporary Chinese texts described as \"a mastermind of pure evil and intrigue.\" It's a fascinating picture of a milieu of lavish riches, elaborate etiquette and byzantine court machinations, a world where Orchid is one of 3,000 concubines and power, even survival, is dependent upon alliances with eunuchs such as her \"first attendant\" An-te-hai. Her era was that of the Opium Wars and the Taiping Rebellion and she played a pivotal part in Chinese history. I was riveted from the first page and through the first half or so of the book describing life in the palaces of the Forbidden City, and Min writes with a solid style, but I thought it later devolved into a romance novel. Ultimately I thought in trying to redeem this historical figure, Min whitewashes her a bit too much--and it's not that I've read any conflicting historical account of her. But reading between the lines, Orchid commits some ruthless, cruel acts. They're a bit breezily passed over in the novel as necessary to set an example or done against her will, but I wished Min had been more unflinching in her portrayal of the strong-willed woman who ruled China at the turn of the 20th Century. ...more This is a fictionalized account of Empress Tsu His (known as Orchid) who was the power behind the throne of the Ch'ing Dynasty in the 19th century. According to the author the characters are base on real people and the events kept closed to the events in history. The decrees and poems were translated from the original documents: In the 1850's European incursions and peasant rebellions were already undermining the Dynasty. At the same time Orchid born in to poverty came to the Forbidden City to be This is a fictionalized account of Empress Tsu His (known as Orchid) who was the power behind the throne of the Ch'ing Dynasty in the 19th century. According to the author the characters are base on real people and the events kept closed to the events in history. The decrees and poems were translated from the original documents: In the 1850's European incursions and peasant rebellions were already undermining the Dynasty. At the same time Orchid born in to poverty came to the Forbidden City to be one of the emperor's seven wives. The young emperor Hsien Feng had neither the temperament nor the training to lead his country. Of all his wives and concubines, Orchid was the only one to produce a male heir giving her privileges. At the emperor's death in 1861, Orchid through the power of seduction and murder and with her diplomatic and manipulative skills took control of the court and became the ruler. This book is the description of a woman managing to come to power in a male-dominated society where love is survival, seduction is power and treachery is a way of life. The story is told in the first person, Orchid tells her story with passion. I found Min's writing compelling and the descriptions (of palaces, dresses and events) very colourful making the subject fascinating and different. The story is slow moving an easy read. I think people that follow historical fiction will enjoy this book, I surely did. ...more Well, this was kind of fun, except that I don't really believe in this version of Cixi. Why is that the authors of historical fiction are afraid to show their heroes as scheming, cunning, ruthless people they were, and end up excusing and sanitizing them? I doubt Cixi was this goody-goody girl in her youth; I don't want to say she must have been evil or anything of the sort, but she must have been cleverer and more entertaining than that. I liked the details of the court life, and the relationshi Well, this was kind of fun, except that I don't really believe in this version of Cixi. Why is that the authors of historical fiction are afraid to show their heroes as scheming, cunning, ruthless people they were, and end up excusing and sanitizing them? I doubt Cixi was this goody-goody girl in her youth; I don't want to say she must have been evil or anything of the sort, but she must have been cleverer and more entertaining than that. I liked the details of the court life, and the relationship of the mother and son was well done. But surely the story of the concubine in the jar doesn't belong there? I know that empresses L\u00fc and Wu were guilty of this kind of thing, but that was about one thousand years earlier than Cixi's times. Anyone know anything? ...more 4.5 Devoured, and followed with the companion The Last Empress . Engaging, detailed, literate, and intelligent: what one wishes for in the best of historical fiction these days. A soap opera plot is unnecessary when the narrative is so full. Min's personal history in China no doubt contributed immensely to the gravitas of the Empress 'voice' and the attention to physical detail, from weather to plants blooming in the appropriate months ( a shame how often an author throws in the name of a flower 4.5 Devoured, and followed with the companion The Last Empress . Engaging, detailed, literate, and intelligent: what one wishes for in the best of historical fiction these days. A soap opera plot is unnecessary when the narrative is so full. Min's personal history in China no doubt contributed immensely to the gravitas of the Empress 'voice' and the attention to physical detail, from weather to plants blooming in the appropriate months ( a shame how often an author throws in the name of a flowering shrub or perennial with no clue of when it does bloom). ...more This is the fictionalized story of the last empress of China, a very interesting insight into the life of the imperial court towards the end of the Qing dynasty. A world apart within the walls of the Forbidden City, dominated by the fight for power and influence. Imase nesto volsebno vo knigava i pokraj mnogubrojnite fakti sto ni se dobro poznati....ja preporacuvam Category: Books Genre: Biographies & Memoirs Author: An Chee Min Novel ini menceritakan tentang kisah hidup seorang gadis Manchu yang bernama Anggrek Yehonala yang pada kemudian hari akan menjadi Permaisuri Cina yang sangat terkenal. Awal cerita dimulai dengan cerita kematian ayah Yehonala yang sebelumnya merupakan Gubernur propinsi Wuhu. Meninggalnya sang ayah membuat Anggrek beserta Ibu dan kedua adiknya berada dalam kemiskinan. Keluarganya kemudian melakukan perjalanan yang panjang ke temp Category: Books Genre: Biographies & Memoirs Author: An Chee Min Novel ini menceritakan tentang kisah hidup seorang gadis Manchu yang bernama Anggrek Yehonala yang pada kemudian hari akan menjadi Permaisuri Cina yang sangat terkenal. Awal cerita dimulai dengan cerita kematian ayah Yehonala yang sebelumnya merupakan Gubernur propinsi Wuhu. Meninggalnya sang ayah membuat Anggrek beserta Ibu dan kedua adiknya berada dalam kemiskinan. Keluarganya kemudian melakukan perjalanan yang panjang ke tempat kelahiran sang ayah di Peking guna melakukan penguburan. Saat tiba di Peking mereka terpaksa harus tinggal menumpang bersama kerabat jauh sang ayah, seorang paman yang tinggal bersama anak lelakinya yang bernama Ping ( yang juga dikenal sebagai Botol ). Dikemudian hari Orchid mendapatkan kesempatan untuk memperbaiki hidupnya saat Kaisar Hsien Feng mengeluarkan dekrit yang menyatakan tujuannya untuk mencari istri. Anggrek dianggap memenuhi syarat dikarenakan ia berdarah Manchu dan ayahnya merupakan pejabat yang berpangkat biru. Setelah melakukan beberapa jenjang test kualifikasi, Anggrek akhirnya terpilih sebagai tujuh besar Selir pilihan yang setaraf dengan lefel seorang istri bagi Kaisar. Anggrek terpilih menjadi selir nomor empat dari ketujuh selir terpilih dan 3000 selir lainnya yang hidup dan tinggal di dalam kota terlarang. Nuharoo yang merupakan peringkat satu dari hasil seleksi ini dipilih menjadi istri resmi Kaisar dan ditetapkan sebagai permaisuri kerajaan Cina. Saat memulai hidupnya di kota terlarang Anggrek kemudian memulai persahabatannya dengan seorang kasim yang bernama An-te-hai, yang kemudian dipilihnya menjadi kasim utama bagi dirinya dari sekian banyak kasim dan pelayan yang dimilikinya. Hari berganti menjadi bulan, Anggrek menunggu gilirannya untuk dapat melayani sang Kaisar, namun hingga berbulan-bulan Anggrek menunggu tidak sekalipun Kaisar pernah datang untuk mengunjungi dirinya. Hal ini membuat dirinya semakin tertekan dan putus asa. Tujuan utama dirnya ditunjuk sebagai selir pendamping adalah selain memenuhi hasrat sang Kaisar Ia juga memiliki kewajiban untuk menghasilkan anak dari hubungan tersebut sehingga dapat memberikan calon-calon kaisar baru bagi negeri Cina. Tetapi, betapapun lamanya ia menunggu belum satu kalipun Kaisar memanggil dirinya. Tanpa memenuhi tujuan utamanya sebagai selir berarti Anggrek berada dalam posisi yang terabaikan seumur hidupnya. Menyadari hal ini maka Anggrek-pun berinisiatif untuk menyogok Shim yang merupakan kasim kepala di kota terlarang. Dengan meyogok kasim Shim, Anggrek memiliki kesempatan untuk melayani Kaisar. Karena sudah merupakan salah satu tugas kasim kepala untuk mengatur siapa yang tidur dan melayani Kaisar setiap malam. Pada hari yang ditentukan Anggrek hampir saja kehilangan kesempatannya mencuri hati Kaisar Hsien Feng saat kaisar sendiri mengusir Anggrek dari dalam kamarnya. Namun saat memikirkan kesempatannya hilang sudah Anggrek kemudian mempertaruhkan nyawanya dengan menentang dan berdebat dengan Kaisar, hal yang tentu saja dapat membuat dirinya dipancung karena melawan sang putra langit. Namun saat itu keputus asaan sudah begitu melanda Anggrek sehingga Ia tidak lagi perduli dengan nyawanya sendiri. Diluar dugaan, Kaisar ternyata menjadi tertarik oleh keberanian Anggrek dan menyuruhnya tinggal bersamanya malam itu. Malam itu, keduanya banyak menghabiskan waktu dengan berbincang. Kaisar menumpahkan segala kekuatirannya dan berbincang layaknya sahabat lama. Baru tengah malam keduanya melakukan hubungan badaniah. Hubungan Anggrek dan Kaisar kemudian menjadi lebih dalam dari sebatas Kaisar dan Selir. Keduanya saling jatuh cinta dalam waktu yang singkat. Kaisar begitu memuja Anggrek dan menghargai kepintarannya dalam berpikir sehingga sering kali Kaisar mendiskusikan masalah kerajaan di tempat tidur. Hal yang dianggap tabu oleh dewan kerajaan. Bukan hal yang mengagetkan bila kemudian Kaisar menjadikan Anggrek Selir kesayangannya. Dalam masa-masa indahnya saat menjadi kesayangan Kaisar Anggrek banyak mempelajari lebih banyak mengenai sejarah Cina dan masalah-masalah yang dihadapi negaranya. Ia juga banyak belajar tentang aturan dan itrik-intrik yang berlangsung di dalam kota terlarang. Intensnya hubungan Anggrek dan Kaisar akhirnya membuahkan janin yang kemudian lahir sebagai putra mahkota, seorang calon pewaris tahta baru bagi Cina. Berkat ini kemudian dirayakan besar-besaran diseluruh Negara. Namun dibalik kegembiaraanya Anggrek juga harus menelan kepahitan bagi dirinya. Tak lama sejak kelahiran putranya. Kaisar Hsien Feng kehilangan minat terhadap dirinya. Situasi ini disulut dan dipengaruhi oleh usaha Nuharoo yang ingin memisahkan keduanya karena rasa iri. Memburuknya situasi politik Cina atas tekanan Negara-negara Barat membuat Kaisar tertekan dan akhirnya jatuh sakit. Kondisi Kaisar yang lemah tidak dapat membangkitkan situasi Cina yang sudah terpuruk dan menekan pihak kerajaan. Penyerangan langsung ke kota terlarang oleh bangsa Barat membuat Kaisar dan keluarganya melarikan diri ke pelosok Cina. Dalam pelarian ini kondisi Kaisar semakin memburuk dan akhirnya merengut nyawanya. Dalam posisi tanpa kepemimpinan, posisi Anggrek tersudut oleh ambisi salah seorang pejabat pemerintahan korup yang bernama Su Shun yang bertujuan untuk berebut tahta Kaisar. Anggrek yang merasa posisinya terancam membujuk Kaisar Hsien Feng agar segera menunjuk putranya Tung Cih sebagai pewaris tahta. Kaisar yang sedang sekarat kemudian menunjuk Tung Cih sebagai penerusnya dengan Nuharoo dan Anggrek sebagai wali resmi Tung Cih sehingga sang calon kaisar sampai di usia akil balik. Su Shun juga ditunjuk sebagai pengganti sementara kerajaan menunggu hingga Tung Cih siap untuk memimpin. Su Shun yang sudah mengharapkan memiliki kekuasaan dan mengambil keuntungan dari meninggalnya Hsien Feng menjadi murka terhadap Anggrek. Anggrek yang posisinya kini setara dengan Nuharoo sejak kelahiran Tung Cih, diberikan gelar baru sebagai Permaisuri kebaikan suci Tzu Chi dan Nuharoo sebagai Permaisuri kabaikan hati Tzu An. Namun dengan gelar baru yang disandangnya hati Anggrek tetap tidak pernah merasakan kedamaian karena kondisinya yang terus menerus tertekan oleh Su Shun. Akhirnya dengan bantuan kasimnya An-te-hai dan pangeran Kung saudara tiri Hsien Feng, Anggrek akhirnya berhasil membekuk dan menghukum Su Shun dari usahanya melakukan kudeta terhadap pemerintahan baru. Akhir novel ditutup dengan prosesi pemakaman Kaisar Hsien Feng dan berkembangnya cinta terlarang antara Anggrek dan Jendral Yung Lu. Terus terang awalnya saya tidak tertarik dengan buku ini. Cerita tentang selir dan kawan-kawannya tidak pernah terlalu menarik minat saya. Meskipun cover buku ini sudah membuat saya berkali-kali melirik. Tapi kemudian saya menemukan banyak referensi dan testimony yang menyanjung buku ini. Setelah beberapa kali menemukan testimony yang memuji buku ini akhirnya sayapun meluncur ke took buku terdekat dan langsung membeli dua jilid seri buku ini. Buku kedua sarang dalam tahap pelahapan hehehe bentar lagi kelar dan siap untuk dibuatin reviewnya. Anyway, balik lagi tentang buku 1 ini. Ya saya tau tentang Empress Tzu Chi, dan yang saya tau dari beberapa informasi sosok berkuasa masa silam ini memang tidak pernah di gambarkan dalam sosok yang penuh kasih sayang dan welas asih. Beberapa kutipan malah hanya menyebutkan betapa kejamnya sosok ini dan dianggap sebagai petaka atas kejatuhan Cina. Beberapa komentar mendukung jutrsu datang dari pihak asing yang menyebutkan dirinya sebagai sosok yang membawa mondernisasi bagi Cina, beberapa juga menggambarkan dirinya sebagai sosok cerdas dan bijaksana. Sungguh mengherankan justru disaat diolok-olok oleh bangsa sendiri Ia justru mendapatkan pujian dr bangsa asing. Dibuku ini Tzu Chi aka Anggrek tidak dilukiskan sebagai sosok kejam sebagaimana yg beredar selama ini. Ia adalah Anggrek wanita yang hidup karena Ia harus hidup demi orang-orang yang Ia kasihi bukan kepada Ia harus hidup demi dirinya sendiri. Beberapa kali saat hilang harapan ia memutuskan untuk tetap hidup hanya karena orang-orang disekelilingnya masih membutuhkan dirinya. Simpati saya terhadap sosok ini cukup besar mengingat kehidupannya yang penuh tekanan dan ketidakbahagiaan. Msayarakat luas menilai hidupnya bagai dalam mimpi namun kenyataanya sungguh jauh. Dilimpahi materi dan kekuasaan tidak dapat membuat dirinya bahagia. Dalam hati Ia selalu rindu untuk kembali menjadi gadis kecil yang bermain-main di sekitar sungai dibandingkan menjadi seorang ratu yang bahkan saat buang hajat harus dikelilingi oleh para pelayan yang mengaku kotorannya berbau wangi. Orang waras manapun bisa jadi gila \u2026 Hebatnya Anggrek bisa tetap mempertahankan sedikit kewarasan dibalik kegilaan disekitarnya. Buku yang bagus dan harta yang luar biasa bagi pengetahuan sejarah Cina. Yang saya tau buku ini dilarang beredar di Cina mengingat banyaknya kebobrokan dan kehancuran yang diungkapkan penulis dalam buku ini. ...more Generally after I finish reading a book, usually on the very day itself, I open a blank word document and start writing my review. But the page for this book stayed blank for a very long time. I didn\u2019t know what to write, from where to start. There were so many details, so many parallel stories and so many emotions in this book; I almost did not write this review for the fear of not getting it right. Okay let\u2019s give it a try. This is the story of the last Empress of China called Yehonala or Orchid Generally after I finish reading a book, usually on the very day itself, I open a blank word document and start writing my review. But the page for this book stayed blank for a very long time. I didn\u2019t know what to write, from where to start. There were so many details, so many parallel stories and so many emotions in this book; I almost did not write this review for the fear of not getting it right. Okay let\u2019s give it a try. This is the story of the last Empress of China called Yehonala or Orchid. She was born in Rural China to a low ranking government officer. At age 17 she auditioned to become one of the Emperors concubines or wives. Unlike what we think, this was actually a very prestigious position in china. She was chosen as one of the 7 wives of Emperor Hsien Feng, a lower ranking concubine and was to live in The Forbidden city. Considering the emperor had hundreds of wives and concubines, she decided to create a place for herself rather than living anonymously like so many of the Emperor\u2019s concubines. With the help of her loyal eunuch servant an-te-hai, she found a way into the emperor\u2019s bed and then gradually his heart. She was the only one to give the Emperor a son, an heir to china. Before his death, the Emperor named his 5 year old son, tung chih, as the emperor and Orchid and his first wife Nuharoo as the court members along with the very powerful Su shun, to run China on behalf of his son. Orchid survived a coup by the ambitious Su Shun and with the help of the Emperor\u2019s cousin Prince Kung, passed a decree which sentenced him and his loyalists to death. Thus began her 50 year rule in China. This book ends where Su Shun is beheaded and she along with Prince Kung start working together to get China running smoothly. The sequel of the book is \u2018The last Empress\u2019, which is all about her reign as an Empress. This is the plot in very very very short. The novel is full of details and the plot is rich with vivid descriptions of the Forbidden city palaces and gardens. I found the book very sad at places. Orchid\u2019s struggle to not fade into obscurity, the Emperors struggle to save China from the various internal uprisings and the attacks from the west, the sad and lonely lives that hundreds of the Emperors concubines had to live. The book is also very interesting at places where she describes the various traditions and festivals and Operas of China, the passages where she describes the auditions, the marriage, her son\u2019s entry into royalty and the constant struggle between her and Nuharoo. I loved Orchid. She was a very intelligent woman. I loved how she tried to gain the Emperors attention by learning the art of seduction from a prostitute house. I loved how in spite of being royalty she did not lose her original self, did not get lost in the grandeur and beauty of The forbidden city. I loved how she wanted to make her son an Emperor in the true sense of the word, someone who really understood the Chinese and the Chinese culture and history and the workings of the court. She was brave and she knew her mind. In an odd way I sympathized with the Emperor too. He was called the Son of heaven and was told that nothing he did was wrong. He was a weak man, someone who wished well for his people and his country, but was unable to take the right decisions. He was weighed down by the constant struggle of trying to save China from the various foreign invasions and internal uprisings. In the end, this very struggle made him sick and took his life. The book is like a roller costar ride. Read it. I am sure you won\u2019t be disappointed. ...more I had high expectations for this book after hearing so much about it on GoodReads. It sort of fell short of those expectations though. I give it 3  stars, which is not bad but I thought it was going to be a 4 to 5 star book. The story itself was very good and it certainly started very well. Orchid is a very likeable character and because of her humble beginnings and barriers she has to battle you can\u2019t help but like her. As woman living during the Ch\u2019ing Dynasty in 1852 Orchid has many hurdles t I had high expectations for this book after hearing so much about it on GoodReads. It sort of fell short of those expectations though. I give it 3 \u00bd stars, which is not bad but I thought it was going to be a 4 to 5 star book. The story itself was very good and it certainly started very well. Orchid is a very likeable character and because of her humble beginnings and barriers she has to battle you can\u2019t help but like her. As woman living during the Ch\u2019ing Dynasty in 1852 Orchid has many hurdles to overcome, especially when she is chosen as a royal wife against the wishes of the king\u2019s mother. Despite the opulent appearance of royalty, court life was brutal with all the back stabbings, mind games, political alliances, and even too much downtime. Prior to reading the book I knew very little about Empress Orchid or Empress Dowager Cixi as she was known in real life, so I decided to do a bit of research after reading this book. The impression that I got through this research was that she was portrayed in a negative light as a very shrewd strategist. If the fictional account of Empress Orchid, however, has any note of truth I can\u2019t say I blame her for using her intelligence and cunning to gain a foothold to power. It\u2019s what any true leader has to do in that type of political environment where nasty rumors, poison and paid assassins are weapons of choice against enemies. Min\u2019s account of the Empress\u2019s life gives the reader a better understanding of what lied behind this so-called shrewd woman. Starting from early on the fictional Orchid begins plotting with the help of her family on how to not only get the king to notice her, but to also remain his favorite. Not an easy task when you have a husband who boasts 7 Imperial wives and 3,000 concubines. Using her sexuality and keen intelligence she manages to position herself as his unofficial secretary to the king and produces an heir potentially securing her future. I won\u2019t go into details, but Min follows the rise, fall and rise again of the Orchid\u2019s power. The book was very descriptive and very lush in detail, almost to a fault. I understood the opulence of the empire, but really I didn\u2019t feel I needed to know every detail and what this or that was covered in and what jewels were used. I found it distracting and not conducive to the plot at all. Also, the king was so whiney that he was grating on my nerves for most of the book and unfortunately, he was a prominent character. The ending though is what really disappointed me. In my opinion it was lame. All this build up and then I blinked and missed it. I did enjoy the book though and learning about the sacrifices that Orchid had to make and about political and court life, but it\u2019s not one that I would highly recommend. ...more I couldn't put this book down. I was surprised that I kept wanting it to keep going, keep telling her story. The story was really strong and covered a fair amount of her life without getting dull at the less exciting parts. So the story covers the life of Empress Orchid, one of the last leaders of China's last dynasty, the Ch'ing Dynasty. It starts with her less than ideal life before becoming part of the Imperial household, when she is struggling with the prospect that she will have to marry he I couldn't put this book down. I was surprised that I kept wanting it to keep going, keep telling her story. The story was really strong and covered a fair amount of her life without getting dull at the less exciting parts. So the story covers the life of Empress Orchid, one of the last leaders of China's last dynasty, the Ch'ing Dynasty. It starts with her less than ideal life before becoming part of the Imperial household, when she is struggling with the prospect that she will have to marry her opium-addicted, mentally disabled cousin. She is chosen as one of 7 wives of the Emperor of China. She struggles with attracting the Emperor's affections and ends up becoming the Emperor's favorite concubine. Although she ends up falling from position as favorite concubine, she gain the Emperor's favor again as his health declines by summarizing incoming correspondence for him to lighten his load, and she ends up managing his political written correspondence. She gives birth to a son which she does not get the privilege to act as the main mother for, and she struggles to keep her son in line and push him into the path of a good ruler, while he is constantly led in the opposite direction by his main caretaker who spoils him endlessly and does not find importance in properly preparing him for leadership. After her husband's death she struggles because she is not allowed any intimacy until she dies, because she was the widow of the Emperor. The biggest shortcoming in this book is that it does not develop on the feelings & emotions of the protagonist. Although the story is 1st person, Orchid does not expand enough on her personal responses to each situation that arises, such as being chosen as one of the emperor's wives, becoming his favorite concubine, or meeting the most important generals and officials in the Chinese government. This weakens the story. The author made a real effort to make this book as genuine as possible to an accurate representation of Empress Orchid. She even goes to the point of sneaking into government storehouses to view diaries and letters from the actual Empress Orchid and her household staff, risking her reputation to do so, according to an interview in the back of the book with the author. This desire for accuracy comes across in her writing. I'm not giving this such a high rating because of the historical accuracy of the novel. I'm not sure if it's historically accurate or not. I am giving it 5 stars, because as a work of fiction, it succeeds wonderfully, and in addition, I applaud the author's work to reveal an alternate side of Empress Orchid than that taught in traditional history as the ruler who brought down the Ch'ing Dynasty. ...more After reading two of Lisa See's novels, I decided that I had to read another book set in China - I believe that I must have been going through a phase. Anyway, a quick search later and I found this: \"Empress Orchid\", a historical fiction about the girl who would eventually become the last Empress of China. And guess what I found out after reading the book: this novel, and it's sequel, are controversial because Empress Orchid was a \"classic villainess of Chinese History\" which is far from how Anch After reading two of Lisa See's novels, I decided that I had to read another book set in China - I believe that I must have been going through a phase. Anyway, a quick search later and I found this: \"Empress Orchid\", a historical fiction about the girl who would eventually become the last Empress of China. And guess what I found out after reading the book: this novel, and it's sequel, are controversial because Empress Orchid was a \"classic villainess of Chinese History\" which is far from how Anchee Min depicted her. I was shocked at reading the accusation, as I had no idea that Empress Orchid was anything like that. In the book she takes an opportunity to avoid marrying her crippled cousin; she waits around miserably for the Emperor Hsien Feng's attention (he had, I think, seven wives, and many, many, concubines); and so on, so forth... I don't want to spoil it too much. But the point I'm trying to make is that, in the novel, Empress Orchid does nothing that deserves her of such a title (in fact, most of us would have taken similar actions if we were in her place). She only wants what's best for her husband, her son, and her country. Unfortunately, I read the book at irregular intervals over a long period of time, and therefore the book didn't really have as much of an impact on me as it could have. However, I still managed to pick up that the first part of the book was more interesting and gripping than the second. Saying that, I have no interest in politics, and when politics started to come into it, I began to lose interest. Trust me, as soon as the politics come in, you need concentrate just that little bit more (Unless you're genuinely interested in Politics). And because of that, I suggest that you don't pick up Empress Orchid if you just want a light read. On the plus side, \"Empress Orchid\" has wonderful and shocking descriptions of the Forbidden City and the traditions that come along with it. So if you're into reading about that kind of stuff, then go for it. I'll leave you with a teaser-quote:\"How can anyone shit gracefully?!\"(I'm obviously mature, aren't I? I purposely want to write an essay on this book, in an English exam, just so I can use that quote) ...more Empress Orchid (in a nutshell) follows the life of the last empress of China, Cixi, from her teen-years, just before she became a concubine to the Emperor, until the death of the Emperor when she was about 30 years old. (Min's sequel, The Last Empress, picks up and covers the rest of Cixi's life.) The book is written in first person, which always makes me dubious when writing about a historical person. Who can ever know what was going on in someone's mind? Especially someone as complex as Cixi. I Empress Orchid (in a nutshell) follows the life of the last empress of China, Cixi, from her teen-years, just before she became a concubine to the Emperor, until the death of the Emperor when she was about 30 years old. (Min's sequel, The Last Empress, picks up and covers the rest of Cixi's life.) The book is written in first person, which always makes me dubious when writing about a historical person. Who can ever know what was going on in someone's mind? Especially someone as complex as Cixi. It is really important to read this book as historical fiction, not historical fact. Min's handling of the character of Cixi is almost painfully sympathetic, but that may have been her goal. Traditionally, Cixi has been seen as a villainess of Chinese history. However, this traditional viewpoint is mostly likely viciously unfair and Min may have been seeking to counteract that. But it could be just as unfair to paint her as a completely innocent victim as well as Min has done. I like more complexity in my characters. Min's strength is in her descriptions. Sights, sounds, smells, fabrics, buildings, a glance, a look, a touch of a hand, her descriptions are all very vivid. But she seems unable to transfer that into the psyche of her characters. On one page Cixi says \"I was not jealous at all\" and on the very next page she says \"I was so jealous.\" The leap Cixi makes in this moment does not have enough depth to it. What caused this change? She also spends the whole year Cixi waits for her wedding go by in only a page or two. Cixi's life was completely changing at this time and I think Min could have spent far more time on her character development here. Overall, though, I did enjoy the book. The view into palace life during the fall of the Chinese empire is very interesting. She does a good job of balancing the very negative views the Chinese had of Westerners during this time, but also keeps in mind her Western audience and makes sure not to turn them off to the story. I would probably give it a 3 out of 5 and I certainly will be reading more of Min's books. She has written her own biography that sounds fascinating and she has also written about the life of Pearl S. Buck. So stay tuned for more reviews to come! ...more The Empress Orchid, written by Anchee Min, is about the Ch\u2019ing Dynasty in 1852. A concubine, Tzu Hsi known as Orchid as a child, was able to win the affections of the Emperor, Hsien Feng, and gave him a son then found herself the ruler of China. Reading about Chinese history and their royal families, this was fascinating. The Empress Orchid and the other books I have read are the reason why I LOVE to read. For that moment as I\u2019m reading a book, I can travel to another world, live in a fantasy or The Empress Orchid, written by Anchee Min, is about the Ch\u2019ing Dynasty in 1852. A concubine, Tzu Hsi known as Orchid as a child, was able to win the affections of the Emperor, Hsien Feng, and gave him a son then found herself the ruler of China. Reading about Chinese history and their royal families, this was fascinating. The Empress Orchid and the other books I have read are the reason why I LOVE to read. For that moment as I\u2019m reading a book, I can travel to another world, live in a fantasy or learn about a mystical place. The creativity and imaginary scenarios in books are so much better than what is offered in TV shows and movies. I enjoy the book more than the movie that was based on a book, i.e., Twilight, because of all the details in a book are never included in the movie. In Empress Orchid, I was able to live Tzu\u2019s life as a concubine and as a royal. Tzu strived to be more than just one of the Emperor\u2019s many concubines. This girl was ambitious and smart and she figured out what would make the Emperor notice her. She gained his attention and his love through good old fashion sex! But Tzu didn\u2019t just lay down with the Emperor and poof she had his heart, the ambitious concubine learned the art of seducing and pleasuring a man. Tzu had a lot of bedroom talent, but her intelligence went beyond the boudoir. During her time with the Emperor, she became his secretary and aided him in running the country. This prepared Tzu for her future role as the Empress of China after Emperor Feng died. Min takes us to another century and teaches us about Chinese culture that is beautifully written with vivid details. In the Empress Orchid, we learn about the struggles of being a concubine and the cruel realities of living among the royal family. Also, the difficulties of ruling over a country and the pressures of being the Emperor of China while trying to keep outsiders from invading. If you are fascinated by history and love to read romance, Empress Orchid is a mix of both. The reader can experience a time before their existence and immerse themselves in a love that blooms between a commoner and royalty. ...more", "Title": "Empress Orchid"},
