{"Comments": "I don't recommend doing what Naomi and I did, which is read through the Mercy Thompson books back to back. It becomes reasonably clear that the reader is getting roughly the same story with different covers. I've spent a lot of time considering this; the series has many ardent fans, and I used to be among them. I think it all depends on what one enjoys in a story, and how tolerant one is of repetition. I'd rate my tolerance somewhere in the middle,<---M> but only until the tipping point occurs</---M>, either I don't recommend doing what Naomi and I did, which is read through the Mercy Thompson books back to back. It becomes reasonably clear that the reader is getting roughly the same story with different covers. I've spent a lot of time considering this; the series has many ardent fans, and I used to be among them. I think it all depends on what one enjoys in a story, and how tolerant one is of repetition. I'd rate my tolerance somewhere in the middle, but only until the tipping point occurs, either through saturation or through pet peeve. I think series like this are best enjoyed exactly as they occur: published one at a time, a year in between. Then the repeated explanations and summaries don't irritate, they only recall, taking on the cadence of storytelling, when the reader slips into the story world with the beginning \"long, long ago and far, far away...\" Despite a reliance on folklore and fairy tales, the Mercy Thompson series is and remains a sanitized, muted version of those grim worlds. The slavering wolf can actually control themselves, if they are old and really powerful. The strange fae will probably help you if you amuse or respect them, but even the bad ones won't trap you for years, until your family has died off. All you have to remember is no thanking. There are scary vampires, but there's also one that wears t-shirts and watches movies, and a sheep necklace can protect you. None of the wolves go crazy despite frequent assertions that it can happen. No one except bad guys are ripped apart.<---F> Marsilia repents her actions</---F>. The fae victims are let go. The misguided humans are coached. Almost everyone gets a chance to redeem themselves. There's very little true evil. No one even swears. I note it because while it is one of the things I enjoy, that sense of ultimate goodness and happy endings, I also believe it explains part of the series' popularity. Unfortunately, familiarity also enables recognition of faults, and there are quite a few. The overall series arc lacks a sense of coherency. After reading through a number of the Briggs' family posts, its clear that the series expanded to accommodate popularity and not out of an internal sense of story progression. The first was written; Blood Bound came about because the first did well, followed by a surprise contract to buy three more books. I'd contrast this with another favorite, Ilona Andrews, who had a clear arc for a seven-book series and a sense of where it was headed in both story and emotion. The plotting to date in Mercy has been roughly the same for each book: someone is imprisoned. With Mercy's special powers, the group will save the day. This is true in Moon Called (Adam), Blood Bound (Stefen, etc.), Iron Kissed (Zee), Bone Crossed (Mercy) and Silver Bourne (spoiler/Mercy). The emotional plotting is also startlingly similar: Mercy will have trouble trusting her affection for Adam. After mistrusting him when she should not have, he will still support her and she will vow to trust him. At the same time, one of the powerful people she loves is willing to sacrifice/suicide. Binge-reading also draws attention to a narrative containing a lot of telling without showing. Mercy will have asides in every book telling about her history, the fae reservation, werewolves, the wolves' coming out and her relationships with Samuel and Adam. Usually she will also explain Zee and the Grey Lords, and Stefen and the seethe. I think this is generally forgivable to many readers as the familiarity echos the storytelling tradition, and the ritual of description, but again distance makes the heart grow fonder. But those are mostly academic issues. What I've found less personally enjoyable, and perhaps even less forgivable are the roles women have in the series. Which is very little: Mercy operates in a man's world, both figuratively and literally. Mercy herself demonstrates no particular direct agency; all of the plots start with her reacting to an event that happens to her genuine, unsuspecting little self. The reader is quickly introduced to the idea that women associated with werewolf packs 'hate' Mercy, and that becomes an ongoing theme through the series. Even human women dislike Mercy, as Gabriel's mom Sylvia does. The exception to agency is Blood Bound, where the evil and conniving Marsilia engineers an elaborate trap, although clearly she still hates Mercy. I realized that even side characters are almost universally male with the exception of a couple of inscrutable fae. The only exceptions being Mercy's mom--who is never more than a whirlwind in and out of the scene--and Adam's daughter, Jesse. I found it disappointing, particularly from a female author with girls of her own. Silver Bourne was the gestalt for me, highlighting all the redundancies. It comes as no surprise then, that a book lent to Mercy by a bookstore owner (male) may have other properties, and that the werewolves in the pack are still trying to break Adam and Mercy up. Samuel is sick at heart and only his wolf saves him, and now Mercy must save his wolf. Mercy's home is targeted. Someone is kidnapped and Mercy must save them, and Adam endures several challenges. Samuel's depression plot was solved very easily and tritely by L-U-V, which I thought disappointing after the complicated emotional fallout of the rape back in Iron Kissed. It was the last book of the series I bought, back in the day when I was silly enough to still auto-buy authors. Three and a half redundancies, rounding down because that's what I did last time. ...more I flew through this in 3 days! Love Adam - sigh! I can't deny that I read this book in one sitting, and that the narrative was absorbing. Briggs is a good writer. But by the next morning, all I could think of were complaints. I suspect I'll be in the minority in disliking this, though. There's no Stephan at all. Maybe the author thinks everybody is sick of vampires. I'm not. I'm sick of the damned Fae. Their presence has ruined this series for me. They're too otherworldy and overly-magical for the kind of urban fantasy I enjoy. I've always like I can't deny that I read this book in one sitting, and that the narrative was absorbing. Briggs is a good writer. But by the next morning, all I could think of were complaints. I suspect I'll be in the minority in disliking this, though. There's no Stephan at all. Maybe the author thinks everybody is sick of vampires. I'm not. I'm sick of the damned Fae. Their presence has ruined this series for me. They're too otherworldy and overly-magical for the kind of urban fantasy I enjoy. I've always liked Zee pretty well, but I disliked extremely the whole long sequence with the Fae towards the end of this book. The previous book revolved around the Fae also, but at least it had a better overall plot than this one. I don't like that Briggs has made her werewolves have split personalities. I can see that a werewolf would think of himself as having a different identify when he transforms, but to give the inner wolf an actual separate personality is taking that too far. And while I usually like pack dynamics, they were fairly pathetic here. Finally, I didn't like the pat resolution to the Samuel problem. I felt unsatisfied and disappointed at the end of this book, and I won't be jumping to buy the next one as soon as it releases. ...more <---A>Patricia Briggs</---A> does not disappoint us in <+++>Silver Borne</+++>, the 5th book in her fabulous Mercy Thompson Series. We continue following Mercy\u2019s life and the world that she lives in\u2026trouble always follows her as she throws herself into saving or helping her friends. This story goes deeper into the secretive and dark and dangerous fae world\u2026. Mercy has something that the fae want back \u2013 a book she had borrowed from a fae friend, who is in danger because of that. She finds herself being contacted by the Patricia Briggs does not disappoint us in <+++>Silver Borne</+++>, the 5th book in her fabulous Mercy Thompson Series. We continue following Mercy\u2019s life and the world that she lives in\u2026trouble always follows her as she throws herself into saving or helping her friends. This story goes deeper into the secretive and dark and dangerous fae world\u2026. Mercy has something that the fae want back \u2013 a book she had borrowed from a fae friend, who is in danger because of that. She finds herself being contacted by the Fae Queen, demanding the return of their valuable book\u2026 In between trying to find her fae friend, she another problem thrown at her by Adam\u2019s wolf pack, who are most unhappy about her Adam making her part of his pact without their consent. But Adam is not backing down. He\u2019s committed to Mercy and no matter what is pack thinks, says or do\u2026. She\u2019s his mate and that will never change\u2026.\u2026 I love the chemistry between Adam and Mercy. Their connection is unbreakable and I like seeing their relationship grow instead of having that insta-love thing. The world building and the characters are so well developed that makes it so real and believable. I just love this series. My favorite quote: ...more 3.5 stars. This was a decent book as part of the ongoing Mercy Thompson urban fantasy series, and worth reading for those who are already into this series, but not one of my favorites in this series. It combines two or three plotlines: (1) Mercy's ongoing issues with the werewolf pack, which become her mate Adam's issues, which leads to some insurrection in the ranks and a mixed martial arts kind of fight for position in the pack, including that of the Alpha. The disclosure of the conspiracy and 3.5 stars. This was a decent book as part of the ongoing Mercy Thompson urban fantasy series, and worth reading for those who are already into this series, but not one of my favorites in this series. It combines two or three plotlines: (1) Mercy's ongoing issues with the werewolf pack, which become her mate Adam's issues, which leads to some insurrection in the ranks and a mixed martial arts kind of fight for position in the pack, including that of the Alpha. The disclosure of the conspiracy and the martial arts fights were interesting reading -- Briggs said she worked with her husband (? IIRC) to write them in as authentic a way as possible, and it shows. BUT this plotline about the pack's issues with Mercy has passed its Sell By date, for my money. (2) The \"Silver Borne\" artifact plot, which ties into a personal crisis that Mercy's old friend Samuel is having. I enjoyed the Sam/Samuel part of this plot; the Silver Borne artifact plot wasn't particularly memorable for me. More complete review to come, probably. ...more I really enjoyed this book. My passion for this sub-genre has been waning because there has been SO much of it out there, but Mercy is one of the originals, and a really good heroine, working-class, compassionate and never perfect. I think I actually enjoyed this installment in the series better than the last, the characters were really fleshed out, the mystery was well-plotted. Nothing HUGE happens, but being comfortable with the world and the other characters is nothing to sniff at. Enjoyable, I really enjoyed this book. My passion for this sub-genre has been waning because there has been SO much of it out there, but Mercy is one of the originals, and a really good heroine, working-class, compassionate and never perfect. I think I actually enjoyed this installment in the series better than the last, the characters were really fleshed out, the mystery was well-plotted. Nothing HUGE happens, but being comfortable with the world and the other characters is nothing to sniff at. Enjoyable, and all in all still one of my favorite Urban Fantasy series! ...more February 2017 Re-read January 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah This is probably one of my favorite books in the series. I always love the ones that deal with the fae a little bit more than the others. And this one definitely has the fae in spades. Beyond that we really get to delve into the issues that Adam's been having in his Pack. I like that things don't magically get better, but that it takes work and figuring out the problem to get to a solution. Samuel. What can I say about Samuel. He br February 2017 Re-read January 2016 Re-read: Buddy read with Sarah This is probably one of my favorite books in the series. I always love the ones that deal with the fae a little bit more than the others. And this one definitely has the fae in spades. Beyond that we really get to delve into the issues that Adam's been having in his Pack. I like that things don't magically get better, but that it takes work and figuring out the problem to get to a solution. Samuel. What can I say about Samuel. He breaks my heart in this book. I didn't always love him, but I always wanted him around. He wasn't for Mercy, but he was an amazing person and wolf. I still cry when I read a great many of Sam's storyline in this book. My one complaint, and overall it's fairly minor, and probably something we just didn't see the consequences of - is (view spoiler) [her taking Jesse into Elphame! And then the fact that it was never brought up again. Adam never mentioned it. Yes, Jesse was ultimately safe, but Mercy knew before taking her in that she was putting Jesse at risk. And I hate that it's never, ever mentioned or anything. (hide spoiler) ] Still. I love this book. The Pack; Samuel, the fae - it's all perfect and heart-wrenching and suspenseful. Original Review: You know, when reading a series I should always write my thoughts down on the day I finish it - or the next day at the latest. I'm already a couple of days late on this one, and I've finished River Marked too. It makes it harder to separate everything out for me. Mercy's newly mated to Adam and brought into their pack. There are some wolves that aren't at all happy about this, and use Mercy's unawareness of pack magic to make trouble. Maybe they just want Mercy out, maybe they want Adam out too and are using Mercy as a stepping stone. When Samuel ends up seriously needing Mercy's help, she realizes she needs to take a step back and try to get a handle on everything. A call from Tad to look after that fae thing that was given her (and I just had a flash of the scene from Hackers \"It's in that place where I put that thing that one time...\"). Now Mercy's the target, along with the pack, of someone who wants it badly. Lots of things going on in this one. The pack politics, followed closely by Samuel's story-line, were my favorites here. Which is what nearly makes it a five-star read for me. I loved how the pack stuff moved and was resolved (even if I'm a little grumpy at the light punishment some transgressions got). Samuel nearly broke my heart, and that's pretty much all I can say without spoiling the hell out of it. I also liked that it wasn't dragged out for a long time (more than one book). The fae \"mystery\" story-line was probably the weakest. It just didn't hold my attention nearly as much as the relationship (Adam&Pack/Pack&Mercy/Mercy&Adam/Samuel&Mercy/etc) dynamics going on with everyone else I cared about. I love how strong and smart Mercy is, but that's she's not infallible. She does make mistakes, but there are consequences for them. There is one mistake in particular (view spoiler) [WTF was she doing taking Jesse into Elphame?? (hide spoiler) ] that seemed to just be dropped when she was rescued. Just because I've come to expect it, I'm sure there was something that was said/happened because of this, but I would have really liked to see it. Otherwise it feels like a dropped thread that was put in there for no real purpose. Overall, another great installment in the Mercy Thompson world with some minor things to niggle at me. Up next: River Marked ...more I love everything about this book! Read April 2, 2010: Wow, wow, wow. I adored this installment of the Mercy series, and it is definitely one of my favorites. This book was a bit of a change from the rest of the series though. Usually Mercy's adventures are action driven with a lot of humor, wit, danger, and a sprinkle of romance to tease readers. With this book though romance definitely took the front seat in terms of plot with action/plot taking a more secondary role. Either way though it was fantastic. The plot combined my 2 fav Read April 2, 2010: Wow, wow, wow. I adored this installment of the Mercy series, and it is definitely one of my favorites. This book was a bit of a change from the rest of the series though. Usually Mercy's adventures are action driven with a lot of humor, wit, danger, and a sprinkle of romance to tease readers. With this book though romance definitely took the front seat in terms of plot with action/plot taking a more secondary role. Either way though it was fantastic. The plot combined my 2 favorite elements in the Mercy universe - Werewolves and the Fae. Werewolf politics are amazingly structured, confusing, and strict. Every peek we get into the complexities of dominance, gender issues, and the magic behind their ties is so detailed, insightful, and engaging. The Fae continue to be the more intriguing and mystifying species that I have come across in any urban fantasy series. The character development is wonderful as well. Samuel has been on the back burner a bit since Mercy became Adam's mate and getting a peek into his very old mind and the strife he is dealing with was great. Although discovering just what a teddy bear Adam can be, and his intense and unconditional love for Mercy was beautiful. Mercy herself grew a great deal in this book as well. She has come to accept and welcome the pack, wants to belong, wants to be involved, all while retaining her independence and unique qualities. I only wish we could have seen her as a coyote more this book. Some of my favorite secondary characters like Zee, Warren, and Ben made appearances this time around and any chance to have them in a scene is totally welcomed. Crazily enough I cannot think of a bad thing to say about this book. Others have thought negatively on the length of the challenge scene which I greatly enjoyed as it revealed so much more about hierarchy in packs, or Mercy's ability to always get out of her insane problems with little consequence (although the climax of Iron Kissed disproves this greatly I think). Yes, the solutions through out these books tend to be a bit convenient but are well thought through, developed, and make sense. All in all, this is the best urban fantasy series out there, and to me all others are weighted against it. I can't wait for the next anything Brigg's puts out! Especially the 3rd installment in the Alpha and Omega series! ***** Review of the audio book January 2011: This installment is still one of my favorites of the series. There was so much character development in this book, and a much clearer understanding of Mercy's interaction and place within the pack. Again, I wish there had been more explanation into Sam's developments, but hopefully one day she will write a great short story or something about it! Now I am seriously chomping at the bit to get my hands on book 6!!! ...more Briggs is my drug of choice! I loved this book! It made me very glad that I had also read the Alpha and Omega series! *** 4.10 *** Another wondrous Mercy Thompson adventure and another book added to my \"really pleasant read\" shelf. Mercy's world is full of magical creatures, most of which deserve their monster label. Our part time coyote is once again entangled in a game of life and death, as much as she tries to convince her friends and pack mates that she does not actively look for trouble. Last time the vampires were gunning for her, this time the local Fae are looking for something she is in possession of *** 4.10 *** Another wondrous Mercy Thompson adventure and another book added to my \"really pleasant read\" shelf. Mercy's world is full of magical creatures, most of which deserve their monster label. Our part time coyote is once again entangled in a game of life and death, as much as she tries to convince her friends and pack mates that she does not actively look for trouble. Last time the vampires were gunning for her, this time the local Fae are looking for something she is in possession of, though she is not exactly sure what that is. On the wolfpack front there is unrest brewing as well. The power structure is shaky since Adam brought Mercy in and she took her place as the alpha's mate. The cracks in the pack magic, partially created by her long time refusal to be his mate, have lead to power struggles and threaten Adam's authority and leave him open to challenges by other dominant and power hungry wolfs. And also, how utterly ridiculous for a gorgeous, powerful alpha like Adam to hook up with a half breed lowly coyote like trailer trash Mercy!!! What would the other wolfpacks think??? So, while it seems that the people who should have her back are doing everything but, and random Faes are also randomly targeting her with malicious intent, she is also faced with trying to find a reason for her best friend to stay alive... Did I mention she is still dealing with the residual panic attacks following a very traumatic experience while under the influence of mind control??? Yea, all this while trying to earn her bacon by working as a mechanic during the day and somehow succeeding in staying sane! Now there is a woman we can use as a role model! This book was not as fluid and naturally flowing as the others up to now, but that did not make it any less interesting and compelling. We learn more about the Fae and pack politics, and we also see the growing devotion between Adam and Mercy. All characters undergo changes and the story continues to expand. We fall deeper into the thrall of Patricia Brigg's writing and are left with no choice but to keep on reading ... I may or may not be bespelled into jumping straight in the next volume... I have to go and chain myself to the book, so I wish all of you happy reading!!! ...more 4.5 stars - great! This book was yet another winner for me in this series. I really loved it. I laughed a couple of times. . .I cried possibly a couple of times (but definitely after the end). :-) I wrote the first paragraph of this review immediately after finishing this book. Time is not doing it any favors. Had I written this review yesterday, after finishing it, it probably would have been a five-star story. Now, though? Now I'm thinking it was just 4.5-stars-great. The main reason for this d 4.5 stars - great! This book was yet another winner for me in this series. I really loved it. I laughed a couple of times. . .I cried possibly a couple of times (but definitely after the end). :-) I wrote the first paragraph of this review immediately after finishing this book. Time is not doing it any favors. Had I written this review yesterday, after finishing it, it probably would have been a five-star story. Now, though? Now I'm thinking it was just 4.5-stars-great. The main reason for this downgrade is, I think, because I am tired. This was the third book in a row where Mercy was under the spell of the Big Bad. First, in Iron Kissed , she was drugged by Fairy Wine. Then, in Bone Crossed , it was vampire mind control (granted, she wasn't really \"under control,\" but her memories were tampered with). And in this book, she's in thrall thanks to some sort of Fairy collar. I'm tired of this. Sure, Mercy is not the strongest of protagonists, but surely we could read about her getting into some other type of trouble? And I'm afraid that my feeling tired of the \"thrall\" storylines is now coloring my impression of this book. It was still a great story, though. One other problem - but this one doesn't have any bearing on my feelings for the story - is that the short story, \"Silver,\" in Shifting Shadows: Stories from the World of Mercy Thompson , was said to be the first half of this book. It really wasn't. Had I not yet read \"Silver,\" I doubt I'd have felt lost when this book got to \"that\" part. (Meaning the part where (view spoiler) [Ariana was revealed. (hide spoiler) ] ) \"Silver\" turned out to be a three-part story (so far, at least): Part One was \"Silver.\" Part Two was whichever book told us what happened to Bran afterwards (this was one or two books ago, I think). And this book was Part Three, giving us what happened \"next\" for Samuel and Ariana. I guess I haven't talked very much about this book, have I? Sorry about that. I mentioned laughing out loud a couple of times. . . I LOLed on page 61 and again on page 161. :-) The first line that made me laugh was more of a scene. It was when Zee said Gabriel's family car's mother was a cola-machine. lol ;-) (That was in Chapter 4.) The second line was in Chapter 9, when Mercy is talking to a few wolves and Jesse. She is reminded of a time when she \"had to take over my sister's Girl Scout troop when my mother had been sick. Fourteen preteen girls, a tableful of werewolves--there were certain monstrous similarities.\" LOL ;-) I also mentioned that I might have shed a tear or three sometime in the middle-ish. But I really cannot remember when - or why - that might have been. I definitely shed a few tears in the end, though. One thing that is good about all of these \"thrall\" storylines is that they certainly ratchet up the tension. I was so relieved to be able to close the cover of this book that I cried a bit. The ending in and of itself was not one that otherwise would have made me cry. Though it was sweet. :-) Here is what happens: (view spoiler) [Ariana shows Mercy and Adam what the book was hiding - the small silver bird from \"Silver\" - and. . . Adam put his hand on my shoulder, bent down, and said, \"Such a small thing to cause so much trouble.\" And he kissed the top of my ear. [fin] (hide spoiler) ] :-) I should probably also mention that I'm happy that Samuel (view spoiler) [seems to be \"back\" now that Ariana is back in his life. (hide spoiler) ] But that seemed too easy. Sure it could be the beginning to seeing a once-again-healthy Samuel, but I have a sinking suspicion that this is also the end and that Samuel will be fine for the foreseeable future. Especially since his troubles weren't mentioned again. So this was a great story for me. I loved it, yadda-yadda-yadda. But. . . I really hope that we're done with the \"thrall\" storylines. :-/ EDIT/UPDATE: So I just realized that I forgot to mention. . .once again we had a book that excluded Stefan! No vampires at all were in this book, but Stefan was at least mentioned. Still, though, I wish we could have all of the major secondary characters appear in every book, even if only in a very limited way. :-/ ...more Ahh!! *satisfied sigh* I just re-read this book, and enjoyed it even more the second time. Up from 4 to 5 stars. So far, THIS book, #5, Silver Borne, is the BEST in this series. Enough plot and plenty of action, but also character driven and relational. Romance, too. I loved it! By the way, Mercy is not a typical stock UF character. Quiz yourself with 15 questions about Mercy's age, ancestry, beliefs, occupation, etc. Mild Spoilers Ahoy: Mercy and friends must rescue an old bookseller (Phin) and Ahh!! *satisfied sigh* I just re-read this book, and enjoyed it even more the second time. Up from 4 to 5 stars. So far, THIS book, #5, Silver Borne, is the BEST in this series. Enough plot and plenty of action, but also character driven and relational. Romance, too. I loved it! By the way, Mercy is not a typical stock UF character. Quiz yourself with 15 questions about Mercy's age, ancestry, beliefs, occupation, etc. Mild Spoilers Ahoy: Mercy and friends must rescue an old bookseller (Phin) and Gabriel (Mercy's teenage assistant) from the cruel, ambitious fairy queen, who enthralls her captives under the hill (Underhill). They must not let said fae queen (once called Daphne) get her hands on Silver Borne, a magical artifact of great power, crafted centuries ago by Ariana, under duress. Such an evil fae villain (was Daphne the fae in A&O, book 2?) Relationships: Samuel is ready to give up on life, for he has no mate. His wolf is taking over. Mercy helps him stay in the game long enough for a lost love from his ancient past to appear. That relationship was initially built over troubled waters, but the old feelings run deep, so they work it out. Nice!! I wanted more of this story line, but nice. I hope to see more of Samuel and his love in future books. Meanwhile, Adam and Mercy are trying to develop telepathic mating bonds and pack bonds, and Adam is trying to ease Mercy into bed, but someone in the pack wants Mercy dead, and someone else wants Adam's position as Alpha. The action never ends, with bounty hunters, fishy fae thugs, explosions, hospitalizations, kidnappings, enthrallment, and dirty pack politicking (jockeying for position). We also get silver garlands, glowing rocks, and a new home for Mercy. Lots of great interactions with primary and secondary characters, with some showing increased loyalty and courage, and others revealing corruption and cowardice. Secondary characters include Samuel (werewolf, Bran's eldest), Zee (powerful metal-work fae \"gremlin\" warrior disguised as old mechanic), Jessie (Adam's 17-year-old daughter), Ariana (a \"good\" fae), etc. Bran plays a fair sized role, too, and his son Charles from the wonderful Alpha and Omega series makes a telephone appearance. We also see Warren/Kyle, Ben, and Daryl/Auriele, as well as Mary Jo/Henry, and Paul. Sigh! After so much worry -- thinking he'd lost Mercy several times -- Adam's wolf is finally content. The two engage in one delightful (but not explicit) love scene. Even better, Mercy has learned to enjoy the sex, the mating bond, and the pack bonds. She is finally able to let the past go. Just right. ;-) One gripe, a decided spoiler!! Why did Briggs let the (view spoiler) [ manipulative werewolves live? The ones who spoke in Mercy's head at the bowling alley, and lured Adam into a burning building, and challenged Adam to a fight to the death within hours of his terrible burn injuries? Kill them. Kill. Them. Don't send Henry to learn some manners with Bran! Don't shake Paul's hand. (Well, maybe Paul is okay, and Mary Jo certainly did atone, so she's okay. But not Henry.) (hide spoiler) ] I wanted to see justice, punishment suited to the serious crime. Harsh, ya think? Content: Some rather gruesome bloody scenes. One sex scene, but it's sorta fade to black. The language is mainly clean, which I rather appreciate (Adam, old school, won't let anyone swear in front of Jessie or Mercy). ...more Seriously, this is one of the most kick ass Urban Fantasy series out there. Mercy is the best type of heroine in that she's so atypical, it's impossible not to love her. She's more likeable than Rachel from the Hollows series by Kim Harrison, she's more down to earth than the pseudo romance-slash-UF series heroines out there. She's the best friend I never had, and considering all the beasties and baddies coming after her, that may be a good thing. In this installment, the bond between her and Ad Seriously, this is one of the most kick ass Urban Fantasy series out there. Mercy is the best type of heroine in that she's so atypical, it's impossible not to love her. She's more likeable than Rachel from the Hollows series by Kim Harrison, she's more down to earth than the pseudo romance-slash-UF series heroines out there. She's the best friend I never had, and considering all the beasties and baddies coming after her, that may be a good thing. In this installment, the bond between her and Adam is tested over and over. If I ever hand any doubts about their devotion or the strength of the mating bond between this unlikely duo, then all my questions were answered in Silver Borne. Not to mention the entirely new spin she puts on a handful of characters already fitted into the story. So much happens in each Mercy book, I can't even begin to name it all. Suffice it to say, this series is effing amazing. I'll end with a favorite quote from Adam to Mercy: \"He sighed. \"I don't think an apology will do, Mercy. Because an apology implies that you wouldn't do it again. And, under the circumstances, you wouldn't do anything differently, would you?\" \"No.\" \"And you shouldn't have to apologize for being right,\" he said with a sigh. \"Much as I'd like to tell you differently.\" Love that guy :D ...more I absolutely love Patricia Briggs' writing, her Mercy Thompson series (and the Alpha & Omega books set in the same world) is one of my favourite urban fantasy series and I tend to reread it most years to get ready for the latest release. Since I have a section of my bookshelves dedicated to this series I thought it would be fun to make a book fold to add. I decided I wanted to do a wolf howling at the moon (yes I get that Mercy is a Coyote but the majority of characters in the series are were I absolutely love Patricia Briggs' writing, her Mercy Thompson series (and the Alpha & Omega books set in the same world) is one of my favourite urban fantasy series and I tend to reread it most years to get ready for the latest release. Since I have a section of my bookshelves dedicated to this series I thought it would be fun to make a book fold to add. I decided I wanted to do a wolf howling at the moon (yes I get that Mercy is a Coyote but the majority of characters in the series are werewolves and the first book in the series is Moon Called !). I found this image online and decided to use it as inspiration for my book fold: It's a little harder to see the details on a book fold but I'm pretty pleased with the way it turned out: What do you think? I really like it but I think I might have to try and come up with a design with a Coyote paw print to match Mercy's tattoo next LOL. ...more Posted on Under the Covers It\u2019s the return of the Fae in Silver-Borne ! Like I said before, I don\u2019t usually like fae stories, but Briggs is always an exception. Mercy Thompson always finds herself in the middle of a huge mess, but she\u2019s always level-headed, always logical and keeps it simple. With Mercy as the newest addition of the Columbia Basin Pack, she\u2019s still getting used to having Adam inside her head with the bond and learning to deal with the other werewolves in the pack. As an independen Posted on Under the Covers It\u2019s the return of the Fae in Silver-Borne ! Like I said before, I don\u2019t usually like fae stories, but Briggs is always an exception. Mercy Thompson always finds herself in the middle of a huge mess, but she\u2019s always level-headed, always logical and keeps it simple. With Mercy as the newest addition of the Columbia Basin Pack, she\u2019s still getting used to having Adam inside her head with the bond and learning to deal with the other werewolves in the pack. As an independent person, she\u2019s finding it difficult grow accustomed to the pack lifestyle. Not to mention that some members of the pack are not too keen on having a coyote as the Alpha\u2019s mate. As a result, there\u2019s trouble within the pack as members step out from the shadows and confront Mercy on this. And there are some who take it too far... I loved the pack politics! We learn things about certain pack members that are both shocking and revealing. And there\u2019s a big shocker concerning the lone wolf, Samuel. Oh my God, you slay me, Briggs! There\u2019s also Ben, whom I hated in the first couple of books because of his attitude. But now he\u2019s become one of my favourite wolves! I love his loyalty to Adam and his protectiveness over Mercy and Jesse. I\u2019m sensing something here, but I don\u2019t want to call on it just yet! But I really hope I\u2019m right! We\u2019ll just have to see as the Mercy Thompson saga continues. Silver-Borne is another solid instalment in the Mercy Thompson series! If you haven\u2019t read this, get on it quick! You\u2019re definitely missing out! ...more Is there anything like holding the latest Mercy Thompson novel in your hands? Especially when it's all large and hardback and glowing ? Because the window on this book seriously glows. And the spine and back are warm and golden and it's just so much prettier than the online images led me to believe. These are the simple things that make me happy. A beautiful dust jacket. A favorite author doing well. Spending time once more with characters who are friends now and who are none the worse for wear f Is there anything like holding the latest Mercy Thompson novel in your hands? Especially when it's all large and hardback and glowing ? Because the window on this book seriously glows. And the spine and back are warm and golden and it's just so much prettier than the online images led me to believe. These are the simple things that make me happy. A beautiful dust jacket. A favorite author doing well. Spending time once more with characters who are friends now and who are none the worse for wear for our time apart. In fact, just a handful of pages into SILVER BORNE it was like we'd never been apart at all. After reading the first three books in the series, I convinced DH he wanted in on this action. So we've read them all aloud together now and it's so nice having that to look forward to each night. Suffice it to say, neither of us was disappointed in the slightest. This is the series that started my love for urban fantasy and so it will necessarily always hold a special place in my heart. But what a feat to be able to say that five books in Patricia Briggs still owns . Mercy and Co. haven't missed a step and it was infinitely delightful to sink back into this world that I love and get up to all sorts of mischief with these characters who continue to make me smile no matter how dark the day. Mercy keeps her life busy these days. Her days filled to the brim working at her garage with Gabriel and Zee, her nights taken up looking out for her roommate Sam, hanging with the local pack, and dating their Alpha. She stays busy enough that things like the lingering effects of recent trauma and returning that book she borrowed awhile back get shoved to the back of her mind. Until something triggers her flinch reflex, that is. Or someone comes looking for the book who perhaps should not be allowed to have it. So when Samuel starts displaying more worrisome tendencies than is normal for a lone wolf and Mercy starts hearing voices and feeling dangerous impulses not her own, she knows things are bound to get worse before they get better. On her side she's got Adam and the members of his pack who do not resent her for bonding with their boss and snagging a coveted spot in the pack hierarchy. She's also got Zee--the crotchety old fae mechanic who is older than dirt, watches out for her, and should not be underestimated . On the other side Mercy's got a handful of wolves who've got no reason to love her, a powerful unidentified fae who wants something she's got, and a pack of demons riding her friend Samuel--all of whom prove darker than she at first thought. But in the end it's up to Mercy to put the pieces together and beat the clock to save her friends and those who rely on her from their monsters--both the ones they can see and the ones they can't. I don't know what goes on in Ms. Briggs' head when she sits down to write a new installment in this excellent series, but what comes out is pure, unadulterated magic. SILVER BORNE lived up to my every expectation and then some. There were a whole host of loose threads left lingering around at the end of Bone Crossed and, though they are not all tied up here (oh, Stefan, how I miss you), the pacing and development of plot threads here is masterful. Patricia Briggs is unparalleled when it comes to consistently strong characters, forward-moving plot lines, and heart-palpitating climaxes. There are no stagnant elements, no pointless meanderings, no annoying red herrings. There is only adrenaline and affection and a burning desire to find out what happens. Fifty pages from the end I turned to Aaron, just shook my head, and said, \"She seriously crafts the best endings. They're always so genuinely exciting.\" And it's to do with the endlessly clever ways in which she weaves together classic mythology with her characters' personal histories and wraps them all up in an unfailing sense of urgency. The villains are smart, dark, and not necessarily operating under the assumptions you think they are. The good guys are brave, torn, and absolutely worth staying up late to root for. But most of all there's Mercy. She's the beginning and the end as far as I'm concerned. She's got dirt under her nails and independence running through her veins. She's as playful as the coyote she shifts into and good to the core. No wonder we love her. SILVER BORNE is one headlong dose of action and surprisingly sweet interpersonal exploration. Finest kind. ...more Let me begin by saying. I love this series. It might be due to one of these many reasons: Mercy kicks butt and she is so messed up that she can't function socially-love that about her. She knows her limitations and isn't all powerful. The author dealt with certain unsavory issues beautifully. The romance took 5 books to develop into something that can be called a relationship. Its just so refreshing to meet an Alpha who doesn't thrust his will on his partner and is willing to put up with her going ag Let me begin by saying. I love this series. It might be due to one of these many reasons: Mercy kicks butt and she is so messed up that she can't function socially-love that about her. She knows her limitations and isn't all powerful. The author dealt with certain unsavory issues beautifully. The romance took 5 books to develop into something that can be called a relationship. Its just so refreshing to meet an Alpha who doesn't thrust his will on his partner and is willing to put up with her going against his will. Adam is also Mercy's match when it comes to being messed up and they are cute together. I love how the author doesn't overlook details that many readers would nit pick at- when Mercy and Samuel(as a wolf) go to the see Adam at the hospital, the author even points out that Samuel had rolled in the mud to cover the blood on him. It didn't even register what she had done till I read this. This book specifically cleared up things about Samuel and it was a relief. And of course, most importantly, I love the humor-there's nothing more fun than a smart mouthed heroine! I'm going to put off reading the next one for as long as I can since I don't want to be done with the series so soon! ...more 5 \"Traitors, Fae Magic & Self-Sacrifices\" Stars for the story and narration! Wow, Patricia Briggs really outdoes herself in Silver Borne! This little gem of an UF book is chock full with intersecting, separate plot lines among many diverse members of Mercy Thompson's world. Moreover, its not just the fantasy that makes this 5th installment in the Mercy Thompson Series special, but also its attention to the romantic connections and its impact on the life circumstances of several of the key cha 5 \"Traitors, Fae Magic & Self-Sacrifices\" Stars for the story and narration! Wow, Patricia Briggs really outdoes herself in Silver Borne! This little gem of an UF book is chock full with intersecting, separate plot lines among many diverse members of Mercy Thompson's world. Moreover, its not just the fantasy that makes this 5th installment in the Mercy Thompson Series special, but also its attention to the romantic connections and its impact on the life circumstances of several of the key characters of this series. As always, Lorelei King does a fabulous job of bringing this unique, magical world to life! I can't wait to continue with both the Mercy Thompson and the Alpha & Omega Series! Source: Library Copy. ...more Why I read: One of my favorite series!!! I love Mercy and Adam. Favorite Quote: There is something incredibly arousing about being wanted . I pulled my hand back and sucked in a deep breath. \u201cAdam,\u201d I said. Mercy has two important men in her life. She is in love with her mate and head werewolf, <---C>Adam Hauptman</---C>, and worried about her roommate, Samuel. Samuel is the Marrok\u2019s son, and outranks Adam, but is not part of his pack, which causes some tension between the two men. Samuel is very old (although Why I read: One of my favorite series!!! I love Mercy and Adam. Favorite Quote: There is something incredibly arousing about being wanted . I pulled my hand back and sucked in a deep breath. \u201cAdam,\u201d I said. Mercy has two important men in her life. She is in love with her mate and head werewolf, Adam Hauptman, and worried about her roommate, Samuel. Samuel is the Marrok\u2019s son, and outranks Adam, but is not part of his pack, which causes some tension between the two men. Samuel is very old (although never ages due to being a werewolf) and very tired in life. Mercy knows he has been struggling with these issues, and doesn\u2019t know how to help him. She is currently letting him stay with her, as she is not quite ready to move into Adam\u2019s house, although he lives right next door. Mercy is not a werewolf, but a coyote shifter, but she is also part of Adam\u2019s pack. This doesn\u2019t necessarily make her welcome to all the wolves. She is also getting used to her inconsistent mate bond with Adam, having him being able to read her thoughts and vice versa. So she feels, not moving in yet is a good plan at the moment. Adam is willing to concede\u2026for now. Mercy knows eventually she will have to face the pack, and her reservations. Mercy gets a call from Tad, the son of her good friend Zee, who is fae. Tad received a message from a friend Phin, that Mercy has to \u201ctake care of that thing I gave her.\u201d Mercy remembers she borrowed a book from Phin on the history of Fae, and she sets off to return it to him as she tries to solve his message. Problem is, no one can find Phin and there are suspicious fae being evasive. While Mercy starts to worry about Phin, she gets a call from Samuel, or from his wolf I should say. Samuel, the person, tries to commit suicide, and the wolf takes over, not wanting to die. In most cases, Samuel would be put down immediately due to the violence a wolf in control is capable of, but Mercy decides to give Samuel a chance. Now she has a possibly violent wolf, a fae book with a lost owner, and a lover who is just a bit overprotective of her. Mercy Thompson is one of my favorite heroines and she continues to be at the top of my list after Silver Borne . I love her spirit, and how she handles all the political maneuverings of the alphas in her life. She is independent, yet fiercely loyal to those she loves. I read these book more for her relationship with Adam and the politics within the werewolf clan than for the mystery. I will say though I think the mystery in this book is probably my least favorite out of all the books. It just didn\u2019t feel as fleshed out or intriguing than the previous ones. However, like I said, I read it more for the werewolf interactions and we get a lot of that in this book. We see Mercy and Adam in love. There are some very tender moments between these two, which is a wonderful change from the unbearable sexual tension Patricia Briggs put us through in the first four books. After they have a little miscommunication: \u201cDo you have any idea how much I love you?\u201d he asked. \u201dEnough to accept my apologies?\u201d I suggested in a small voice. \u201dHeck no,\u201d he said, and pushed off from the wall, stalking forward. When he reached me, he put his hands up and touched the sides of my neck with the tips of his fingers \u2013 as if I were something fragile. \u201dNo apologies from you,\u201d he told me, his voice soft enough to melt my knees and most of my other parts. We not only see Mercy in love, but we see a very vulnerable side of Adam. Fear that Mercy might one day decide to walk away from him. We find her reassuring the big bad alpha, that he is hers. \u201cMine\u201d is used very often when Mercy thinks of Adam. And thank you to Patricia Briggs for the last few pages in the book. For as tender as Adam is throughout, the last few pages \u2013 the real wolf comes out to play. Sam plays a very big part in this book as well. Sam is at the end, and Mercy refuses to let him go..but she has no idea how to bring him back. I felt like the way he is recovered is a bit rushed. It doesn\u2019t happen until the very end, so I am sure it will be explored in the next book more, but I would have liked to have more page time devoted to his recovery, especially since it is built up in the book so much. Silver Borne and the entire Mercy Thompson series is fabulous. Patricia Briggs can write werewolves with such subtle nuances, that make them have such a real feel. They are brutal and have a wild, violent side, yet their human side can be so vulnerable. She is really a remarkable writer. If you have not read this series, start with Moon Called , book one in the series. One of my favorite books I have read. ...more SPOILERS INCLUDED BUT MARKED I had to think about this one before rating it. There were some really fantastic scenes, but there were also a few things that seemed like they weren't explored well or didn't come to their logical conclusion based on what we know so far. The four stars is actually 3.5 - 3.75 rounded up. Mercy's still living in her trailer with Samuel and working in her garage. Her relationship with Adam has progressed to the lovers stage but her relationship with the Pack has not imp SPOILERS INCLUDED BUT MARKED I had to think about this one before rating it. There were some really fantastic scenes, but there were also a few things that seemed like they weren't explored well or didn't come to their logical conclusion based on what we know so far. The four stars is actually 3.5 - 3.75 rounded up. Mercy's still living in her trailer with Samuel and working in her garage. Her relationship with Adam has progressed to the lovers stage but her relationship with the Pack has not improved. In this book Samuel's in big trouble and needs Mercy's help whether he wants it or not. It's a somewhat heartbreaking as well as infuriating story line with a disappointingly pat conclusion. Some in the pack want Mercy out, maybe want Adam out, too, and are using the whole 'making a coyote part of a wolf pack' upheaval to create a power play. That story line was the most intriguing to me and had a fairly nice conclusion although all the players who deserved punishment didn't quite get their due, IMO. There is a nasty fae who wants one of the artifacts Mercy has borrowed and there's some real danger for Mercy and her friends. This is the story line that I thought was wrapped up and dispensed with too insubstantially. MAJOR SPOILER: * * * I was particularly bothered by Jessie's involvement in the rescue since it didn't provide anything more than a way for Ari to find Gabriel. Mercy said it herself, she could have stopped by Sylvia's and gotten something inanimate that Ari could use just as well. I mean, Sylvia was in the know by that time. Mercy did need a human to facilitate communication, but Tony couldn't have done it? Kyle? In past books in this series, we've gotten to see why certain things that make sense are impossible. This felt like Briggs just didn't bother laying the groundwork. And I can't believe Adam had absolutely nothing to say about Jessie being put in that kind of danger when all these adults were involved. It just doesn't wash. Now, if she had followed them and they'd been forced to take her, that would be okay, but that wasn't the case, they chose to take her. And, in any case, her presence was not used for any interesting elements of that story line. She was merely a distraction for me, the reader, because I assumed there would be some real consequences to Mercy's TSTL decision making. But then there weren't any. It was just kind of brushed away. This was the first book where I saw Mercy actually make any TSTL decisions. Lying to Adam, having Jessie come along when she wasn't the only option, not talking to Adam directly about the Pack manipulating her and several others. * * * END SPOILER Not that this book is bad. Far from it. Patricia Briggs is such a great writer that this is definitely still a \"can't put it down\" read. I was just disappointed in the follow-through on some of the threads. And Briggs has established Mercy as this very competent and logical heroine so I just couldn't reconcile some of her decisions with the character I've come to know. It's possible my disappointment is heightened by the fact that I now have to wait months and months for the next installment. But my dissatisfaction is real and I think the elements I've mentioned really weren't in keeping with the high quality I've come to expect. 3.75 stars for excellent writing and partially amazing story telling. And Adam. And Ben. I do so love those wolves. :D ...more The most anticipated change is Mercy's relationship with Adam, the werewolf Alpha. Adam's pack is still not completely welcoming to a troublesome coyote and in this book a few pack members decide to meddle in Adam's and Mercy's relationship. One of the best aspects of Briggs' books is the real and growing relationship of Adam and Mercy. Briggs has declined to throw these two into each others arms instead giving her readers the pleasure of watching two people become a couple. Love does not conque The most anticipated change is Mercy's relationship with Adam, the werewolf Alpha. Adam's pack is still not completely welcoming to a troublesome coyote and in this book a few pack members decide to meddle in Adam's and Mercy's relationship. One of the best aspects of Briggs' books is the real and growing relationship of Adam and Mercy. Briggs has declined to throw these two into each others arms instead giving her readers the pleasure of watching two people become a couple. Love does not conquer all but a strong Alpha werewolf and a coyote with a gun can sure reduce the number of their detractors. Loyalty to pack is a good thing, but for some it takes a well-placed bullet. Mercy receives a call from Zee's son, Tad, about the fae bookseller she borrowed a book from in the last book. Phin gives Tad a cryptic message about Mercy and the book and now he isn't answering his phone. Mercy promises to look into it and quickly realizes that Phin might be in serious trouble or dead. And it isn't too long before Mercy realizes that if she can't figure out what happened to Phin the same thing might happen to her. A powerful and nasty fae wants the book and isn't about to let a little thing like a coyote stand in her way. To add to Mercy's full calendar Samuel, Mercy's friend and the Marrock's son, has spiralled into a deep depression. If he can't be pulled out of it the Marrock or Adam will be forced to kill him before he falls into homicidal insanity. Maybe Briggs tried to put a little too much into this book because Samuel's storyline was not very fleshed out. It came across as flat and forced. And it just occurred to me why. Briggs gave us an instant HEA and it didn't work. I hope that in the next book she will give this couple a more fully realized relationship. Even with this problem Briggs still gives her readers a must-read book that has a strong loving relationship, good and loyal friends, betrayal, mystery, and a few changes of address. And Medea, the cat who loves werewolves. ...more Another good book in the series, but I was left less satisfied than normal. Maybe because the last book I read was the A Game of Thrones series, but I think it was more than that. The story didn't really seem to advance anything, although thinking back on it, it did in some ways. There just wasn't enough of it, though. The worst problem was the uneven pacing of the story. The beginning is a slow, meandering build up of issues. Then there are some new elements introduced with a sudden, frantic en Another good book in the series, but I was left less satisfied than normal. Maybe because the last book I read was the A Game of Thrones series, but I think it was more than that. The story didn't really seem to advance anything, although thinking back on it, it did in some ways. There just wasn't enough of it, though. The worst problem was the uneven pacing of the story. The beginning is a slow, meandering build up of issues. Then there are some new elements introduced with a sudden, frantic ending that felt unfinished. It's almost as if Briggs hit her word count limit or due date & just pushed this out the door. The focus of this book seemed narrower. There is a lot going on in the world, but suddenly entire races get a bare mention. (view spoiler) [ Specifically, Stefan isn't seen at all nor is a a single vampire. (hide spoiler) ] Actually, only the central cast has any attention paid to them. It's as if they exist in a bubble. That was one of the realistic points of her previous books - the intrusiveness of daily detail, but there was none, here. (view spoiler) [ Mercy, a small business owner, is gone for a month & there isn't a problem? She had no other cars in the shop? What about Gabriel & his mother? (hide spoiler) ] There seemed to be a bit of a departure from Brigg's normal, careful development with Sam's problem. (view spoiler) [I don't think there was that much of a split in the werewolves personality nor did I care for the magical answer to all his problems. Introduced in the last 1/3 of the book, she magically fixes everything. (hide spoiler) ] It just seemed too pat & quick for something that has been developing over all the previous books in the series. Now it's suddenly all better? Nope. Too much. So, not a bad read & I'm still happy enough with the series to read the next, but I'm certainly not frantic to get it. ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605 (This is a review of the audiobook.) Lorelei King narrates this first person POV, and I think she just keeps getting better at speaking as our little coyote-shifter garage mechanic, Mercy. She has a lot of voices in this adventure, which concentrates on the fae \u2013 but, definitely not this kind of fae (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] \u2013 plus werewolves (of course), and a (view spoiler) [witch; but, real b!tch-witch, rather than this kind of a witch (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] \u2605\u2605\u2605\u2605\u00bd (This is a review of the audiobook.) Lorelei King narrates this first person POV, and I think she just keeps getting better at speaking as our little coyote-shifter garage mechanic, Mercy. She has a lot of voices in this adventure, which concentrates on the fae \u2013 but, definitely not this kind of fae (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] \u2013 plus werewolves (of course), and a (view spoiler) [witch; but, real b!tch-witch, rather than this kind of a witch (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] (hide spoiler) ] instead of the vamps this time. In addition, my Samuel is **gasp** depressed and there are also lots of high (and low) emotions, what with all the pack politics and whatnot. Nevertheless, Ms. King handles them all nicely. She does a pissed off Sylvia Sandoval and her adorable children skillfully, likewise. I just this series! ...more So, so, so good!! Love this series! Review, maybe... 1st Read August 2010 - Rating 5 * 2nd Read March 2014 - Rating 5 * 3rd Read January 2016 - Rating 5 * 4th Read February 2017 - Rating 4 * Original Review When Mercy gets a message asking her to look after a fae book that she had previously borrowed she is curious about what has happened to it's owner. Then she finds herself being targeted by a mysterious fae who is not only after her but also targeting Adam and her pack but what does this have to do with the book? To make matters worse Samuel, who's 1st Read August 2010 - Rating 5 * 2nd Read March 2014 - Rating 5 * 3rd Read January 2016 - Rating 5 * 4th Read February 2017 - Rating 4 * Original Review When Mercy gets a message asking her to look after a fae book that she had previously borrowed she is curious about what has happened to it's owner. Then she finds herself being targeted by a mysterious fae who is not only after her but also targeting Adam and her pack but what does this have to do with the book? To make matters worse Samuel, who's depression has been worsening over the months, has taken a turn for the worse. For survival Samuel's wolf has taken control but that makes him dangerous - and marks him for death if Adam and the Marrock find out. Can Mercy help Samuel regain control before the other werewolves find out what has happened and what does the powerful fae want with the book? Although this review won't contain spoilers for Silver Borne as this is book 5 in the Mercy Thompson series it will be impossible to review without giving spoilers for previous books in the series. If you haven't read the rest of the series then I wouldn't recommend reading any further but I would suggest you check out Moon Called as this is one of my favorite urban fantasy series and Mercy is definitely one of my favorite heroines! Anyone who has read any of the books in this series will already know that Mercy has a knack for drawing attention of the supernatural races who are more powerful than she is. She may be a Walker (a shifter who can turn into a Coyote) but her powers are limited - especially when compared to the werewolves or fae. Having come up against the fae before she is understandably wary when she finds herself being targeted again but she is determined to protect her friends and find out what is going on. My favorite part of this book has to be the interaction between Adam & Mercy, I just love them both as a couple & it is nice to watch their relationship develop since their mating in the last book. There are some really sweet, emotional scenes between the two of them and if anything I now love Adam even more. We get to see a more vulnerable side to him in this installment but he is still all alpha male. Mercy is still trying to get used to the pack bonds and most of the pack still aren't happy that she is now one of them. I enjoyed finding out more about the pack politics and seeing Mercy learn how to deal with this new bond and the werewolves who are against her. Samuel has been one of my favorite characters ever since we first met him and although I didn't want him & Mercy to end up together, I do want to see him have his own happy ending. I felt so sad for him in the last book as you could see how badly he was feeling but parts of this book had my heart breaking for him. As an old wolf he has lived too long and has started to give up on life. Mercy loves him and wants to protect him but when his wolf takes control she is very worried about what could happen. Having a wolf in control is a very dangerous thing for both the wolf and for everyone surrounding him - if the Marrock finds out what has happened he will have no choice other than killing Samuel. If I had one slight complaint about this story it would be that things with Samuel tied up a little too easily but I'm hoping we will get to explore more about what happens with him in the next book. If you're a fan of this series then I'm sure Silver Borne won't disappoint, it is one of my favorite books in the series. I enjoyed the action and mystery surrounding the fae artifact but for me it was the relationship development between the characters that made the story. If you haven't read this series yet then I can't recommend it strongly enough. It's going to be a long wait until River Marked but I'm looking forward to getting stuck into the Alpha and Omega series in the meantime. ________________________________ 2nd Read Reread with Ange I loved it just as much the second time around. I can't believe how much of the story I'd forgotten, nearly the whole book came as a complete surprise so it was like reading it for the first time all over again! I just love, love, love Mercy and Adam together, they are such a brilliant couple. This is as far as I ever got with the series so I can't wait to get started on River Marked to find out what happens next! ________________________________ 3rd Read Buddy read with Ange Since it's been nearly 2 years since Ange & I buddy read this series last we decided we're well overdue another read in the run up to the release of Fire Touched next March. I love this series so much! The characters, the world building just everything about these books makes them a comfort read for me. Along with Ilona Andrews's Kate Daniels series this is probably my most reread series & I never get tired of it. ________________________________ 4th Read Mercy & Adam are so cute together, Sam breaks my heart and I adore Bran! I hate half the pack but luckily because this is a reread I know they get what's coming to them eventually - it's just a very long and frustrating wait. ...more More Fae trouble and 'Pack 101' - another great Mercy offering from Briggs The main dilemma in Silver Borne makes it a Fae-centric offering, but since trouble comes in threes: Mercy's also having issues with the pack bond and some pack members who are unhappy with a coyote in the pack, also things are not right with Samuel and Mercy's going to find out just how serious a problem that is. Mercy is a magnet for trouble as always - that's a given - but the resolutions to problems with the pack, and More Fae trouble and 'Pack 101' - another great Mercy offering from Briggs The main dilemma in Silver Borne makes it a Fae-centric offering, but since trouble comes in threes: Mercy's also having issues with the pack bond and some pack members who are unhappy with a coyote in the pack, also things are not right with Samuel and Mercy's going to find out just how serious a problem that is. Mercy is a magnet for trouble as always - that's a given - but the resolutions to problems with the pack, and the kidnapping of a friend are good. Also Mercy's relationship with Adam finally solidifies. I had a few really nervous moment while reading Silver Borne. I was really worried for a while that we were going to lose Samuel - old werewolves loose the will to live after awhile and Samuel is really old. Fortunately, while Samuel the human has given up, Sam the wolf doesn't want to die and the wolf takes over for awhile and even though having 'the wolf in charge' is normally an immediate death sentence, Mercy manages to buy Sam some time while she desperately tries to find a 'win' in what is rapidly becoming a 'no win' situation. I loved the whole story, both the character and plot elements were well crafted but one thing that I found extremely interesting in Silver Borne is that with Samuel's dilemma, the pack problems and a later piece related to the pack in the story (Mercy calls it Pack 101 after the fact), we get to learn a lot more about the weres in Briggs' universe. I love Briggs, and read this way too fast. Now the long wait for the next one begins. ...more My reviews for these books are getting kind of repeatative, how many ways are there to say I LOVE THIS SERIES! Not too many I think. So I have decided to do a list of what I love about this book: 1. Mercy & Adam- I love that rather then them having an immediate love-you-till-you-die connection that it seems to have grown and in this book you really see how deep the bond between them is. Indivdually, especially Mercy, they are likable characters brave and honest and the more I read about them, My reviews for these books are getting kind of repeatative, how many ways are there to say I LOVE THIS SERIES! Not too many I think. So I have decided to do a list of what I love about this book: 1. Mercy & Adam- I love that rather then them having an immediate love-you-till-you-die connection that it seems to have grown and in this book you really see how deep the bond between them is. Indivdually, especially Mercy, they are likable characters brave and honest and the more I read about them, the more I like them. 2. Samuel- OMG MY POOR SAM! I love how Sam has developed from a possible love interest for Mercy to such a good friend and I can't wait to see how things pan out for him. 3. The World- I was right, the Fae are DEFINITELY the creepiest and scariest of all the races that Patricia Briggs has created. Werewolves are primitive, volatile and violent, but they still have human connections and family and Pack are important to them; Vampires are creepy and cold but even they have a Seethe that they protect and they used to be human. But the Fae are ruthless, calculating and if vampires are cold some of the Fae are just glacial, Ms Briggs gives them such an air of Otherness that for me they seem the most dangerous. There are lots of other things I like about this series as well, the writing for example although nothing fancy manages to put the story across with a great deal of clarity and it really feels like you are looking through Mercy's eyes. LOVE LOVE LOVE Mercy Thompson. ...more As always, I love Mercy and her world. This one is no exception. From tricky fae to sexy werewolves, Briggs' world never ceases to entertain. Mercy and Adam have got to be the cutest fictional couple ever. Mated to Adam and under the protection of the pack, Mercy still lives in her trailer while she is dating Adam. I love the mating games played by Adam with his \u201cpartner in crime\u201d Jesse. Jesse feeds Mercy all sorts of disinformation about a date so that Mercy must guess appropriate attire. Amusing and cute at the same time. Mercy\u2019s position in the pack is marked by dissention amongst the pack members who have difficulty accepting a non Mercy and Adam have got to be the cutest fictional couple ever. Mated to Adam and under the protection of the pack, Mercy still lives in her trailer while she is dating Adam. I love the mating games played by Adam with his \u201cpartner in crime\u201d Jesse. Jesse feeds Mercy all sorts of disinformation about a date so that Mercy must guess appropriate attire. Amusing and cute at the same time. Mercy\u2019s position in the pack is marked by dissention amongst the pack members who have difficulty accepting a non-wolf mate for the Alpha. Someone was able to use the pack bonds to get to Mercy and mess with her head. Once again, the pack politics and intrigue kept me guessing during the whole story. Throughout the series, Mercy is portrayed as a small, meek coyote. I enjoyed seeing her stand up to the wolves that challenged her. Mercy held her own and strengthened her position within the pack. The fae are prominent in this book. Briggs\u2019 fae are fierce and creepy. Her portrayal of the fae world was extremely well done. Mercy\u2019s diplomatic side is revealed in her interactions with the fae. When Mercy negotiates with the fae queen she uses her inside knowledge of fae lore and customs to her benefit. I loved how the pack\u2019s links to each other was depicted in this book. The imagery of Mercy following the links was vivid and extremely detailed. This book marks a break in Samuel\u2019s character. Samuel is taken over by his wolf Sam after an attempted suicide. For most wolves, this would be an automatic death sentence. Sam is a remarkably calm werewolf. So calm that he allows children to climb on him. It was refreshing to see the wolf\u2019s perspective and how much the wolf wanted to continue living. In essence, the wolf Sam kept Samuel sane while Samuel worked out his issues. I really felt for Sam throughout this book. He seemed so broken, so irreparable. I was so happy that Mercy took him under her wing to help fix him. While I enjoyed this book immensely, there were parts that didn\u2019t flow well for me. For example, after Mercy and the wolves got the ransom call from the fae queen, the wolves continued with a pack challenge. At one point, I wondered if they had forgotten their other issues, notably Gabriel and Phin. Overall, this is another solid book in a great series. Off to read River Marked next. ...more", "Title": "Silver Borne"},
