{"Comments": "First of all, I would normally never even think to read this book. But as I was looking at the clearance rack,<---M> a kid</---M>, ie teenager, approached me. \"Hey, do you like vampires?\" I was disturbed how unfazed I was with the completely random question. \"Sure.<---F>\" Slightly wary</---F>. \"Have you heard of Moore?\" He's a vampire now? That answers a lot of questions. \"Michael Moore?\" I'm riffling books hoping he'll go away. \"No, not that crazy one, this is a <---A>Christopher Moore</---A>. He's hilarious and has his own cult started.\" First of all, I would normally never even think to read this book. But as I was looking at the clearance rack, a kid, ie teenager, approached me. \"Hey, do you like vampires?\" I was disturbed how unfazed I was with the completely random question. \"Sure.\" Slightly wary. \"Have you heard of Moore?\" He's a vampire now? That answers a lot of questions. \"Michael Moore?\" I'm riffling books hoping he'll go away. \"No, not that crazy one, this is a Christopher Moore. He's hilarious and has his own cult started.\" The clarification didn't really help gain any brownie points for Christopher Moore. \"Ummmm, that's cool.\" Looking for exit. The kid picks up a book on the clearance rack. \"Try him. You'll love it. If you like vampires, you'll LOVE this book.\" I read, \"<+++>You Suck</+++>...A Love Story.\" Is he high or something? This looks like a a suckASS book. \"OK, thanks, I'll give it a try.\" I bought the book, and now I'm so grateful that the kid decided that I was the vampire loving type of chick. It is impossible to completely classify this book. So when you see the basic description of \"A love story\" on the cover, that's the best way to explain it. It's a love story of vampires that is hysterically funny! I can't even begin to try and explain why it's funny, so just read it. You'll start out being a little stunned, then you'll giggle, then you'll just laugh continuously. Whatever you do, DO NOT READ THE LAST SENTENCE OF THE BOOK UNTIL IT'S TIME! It's a special sentence that will break you for a few days, but you need the context of the book first. My favourite characters? Abby Normal and Chet, the huge shaved cat. ...more Another very funny book from Christopher Moore, this one the middle book in his vampire trilogy. Not as outrageous or imaginative as the other two, this is still vintage Moore with his unique way of dealing with a well worn fantasy subject. Moore may have thought of this trilogy a long time ago, and so he may not be a part of the glutted market (<---B>or he is</---B>) but not even his comedic talent can completely offset the rush to vampirism that has plagued our books for a while. Get out the garlic--it\u2019s yet another vampire tale! I\u2019m not sure who to blame for the vampire and zombie stories proliferating like bunnies on a hot August afternoon, but when I find out and slap them, I\u2019ll hold back--just a touch--for this one. Thankfully, this book didn\u2019t take itself seriously, was wont to include posers in leather, pleather or otherwise, and left the sulking, weak-willed super beings behind. Instead, this tongue-in-cheek story injects a touch of humor into the overdone subgenr Get out the garlic--it\u2019s yet another vampire tale! I\u2019m not sure who to blame for the vampire and zombie stories proliferating like bunnies on a hot August afternoon, but when I find out and slap them, I\u2019ll hold back--just a touch--for this one. Thankfully, this book didn\u2019t take itself seriously, was wont to include posers in leather, pleather or otherwise, and left the sulking, weak-willed super beings behind. Instead, this tongue-in-cheek story injects a touch of humor into the overdone subgenre and reminds you that vampires can, yes, be fun. Thank Bob! Great characters, especially the lone wannabe Goth girl who is really a geeky little sweetheart in disguise, Abby. Abby Normal that is. Everyone in this is either there for comic relief or playing the part of the straight man to the comedian and are all worthy, rather than when you find characters in books that you could just skip because they do nothing to further anything or anyone else around them. Nice surprise. The story is Dracula on crack meets Abbot and Costello. Opening dialogue includes such tidbits as, after learning that his girlfriend turned him into a blood-sucking fiend, \u201cYou shouldn\u2019t just kill a guy without asking. It\u2019s inconsiderate.\u201d Atmosphere is big city, little apartment and everything in between. You grimace at the blood-laced coffee but completely understand the craving and accept it. You can smell the scorched skin and the stinky homeless guy with the really big cat. And even during the more violent scenes, you\u2019re still giggling at the entire idea of it. Pace is completely dependant on the characters rather than the story itself. Alternating viewpoints move you along while tickling your funny bone and letting you know that everyone has a different idea of what happened and how. The chapters controlled by Abby Normal would be 180 degrees different if we heard another version, and knowing that makes it all the more fun. Style is key to everything in here. Perfectly written for the character of the moment, you don\u2019t think of a big eye in the sky controlling everything below, but rather, read it as if each of these characters was telling you in their own words what happened. Hell, he even made fun of writer wannabes using the word \u201cmiasma\u201d and I became an instant fan for life! I don\u2019t get to read horror-comedy often, but I do enjoy it when done right. Gil's All Fright Diner, by A Lee Martinez, was an amazing giggle at our genre--probably my favorite, and this one is a damn close second. I\u2019ll give it a 4 . Go ahead and get it by clicking on that link below. Just don\u2019t be surprised if people stare at you as you snicker on the subway\u2026 ................... Originally posted on Horror-Web ...more Funny, with some definitely quotable moments. However, for me, Moore's vampire series is the weakest of his work. That's not an insult--I still enjoy them and definitely snicker out loud in ways that make those around me pick up their things and stealthily move away from the crazy person, but they're a little too \"wink, wink, nudge, nudge\" sometimes in their humor. What impresses me with Moore is that, often among all of the wacky chaos, he can sneak up on you with a beautiful turn of phrase or Funny, with some definitely quotable moments. However, for me, Moore's vampire series is the weakest of his work. That's not an insult--I still enjoy them and definitely snicker out loud in ways that make those around me pick up their things and stealthily move away from the crazy person, but they're a little too \"wink, wink, nudge, nudge\" sometimes in their humor. What impresses me with Moore is that, often among all of the wacky chaos, he can sneak up on you with a beautiful turn of phrase or moment that catches you off-guard. The scene where <---C>Jody</---C> feeds off of a man with terminal cancer is beautiful and touching without being maudlin. Don't worry that there are too many moments like this, though, as there's plenty of Moore's trademark \"heinous fuckery most foul.\" Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder ...more I love Christopher Moore. I mean, I really, really love this guy's writing. I've given his books to friends, made them required reading for classes that I've taught, and generally done everything I could to help him along. But this one...well, the title pretty much says it all. Moore slapped together a thin plot, an ongoing lovers' quarrel, some gimmicky scenes, a major deus ex machina, and an ending that is truly lame. When the guy is on, he is fantastic. And when he's off, well, he sucks. This is my first Chris Moore book. I quickly realized that this was a sequel, but I was already into the story. Why? Because Moore is fricking hilarious. This is the story of two rookie vampires (Jody and Tommy) who are doing their best to avoid the law, former friends, and giving in completely to their primal natures. And of course they need a minion. Enter Abby Normal. Her greatest struggle is trying to shove down her inherent perkiness and embrace the darkness of goth, or whatever she is. Her This is my first Chris Moore book. I quickly realized that this was a sequel, but I was already into the story. Why? Because Moore is fricking hilarious. This is the story of two rookie vampires (Jody and Tommy) who are doing their best to avoid the law, former friends, and giving in completely to their primal natures. And of course they need a minion. Enter Abby Normal. Her greatest struggle is trying to shove down her inherent perkiness and embrace the darkness of goth, or whatever she is. Her narration of the story is one of the most entertaining aspects of the book. Then there\u2019s the bronzed (literally) vampire who sired Jody. The two fledgling vampires must decide what to do with him so he will no longer be a threat. So, if you like vampires who don\u2019t take themselves too seriously (or brood, or sparkle), hilarity, and the mocking of goth/emo/death punk kids (and who doesn\u2019t?), this is the book for you. ...more Blech. I really enjoyed the last Christopher Moore novel and decided to try another, despite the fact that the plot isn't ordinarily one that would draw my attention. I picked this one because (1) it was handy on the library shelf, and (2) it was written after A Dirty Job and I thought that meant it was likely to be written at least as well. That was a mistake. This one's going back to the library unfinished, because I'm just not wasting any more time on it. I read about a quarter of the book, in Blech. I really enjoyed the last Christopher Moore novel and decided to try another, despite the fact that the plot isn't ordinarily one that would draw my attention. I picked this one because (1) it was handy on the library shelf, and (2) it was written after A Dirty Job and I thought that meant it was likely to be written at least as well. That was a mistake. This one's going back to the library unfinished, because I'm just not wasting any more time on it. I read about a quarter of the book, in which stupid, not particularly likable characters bumble their way through a stupid and artificial plot. Usually, if I read even that much of a book, I'll see it through to the end, if for no other reason than to find out what happens to the characters I've started to know. This time, though, I really don't care. ...more 3.5 stars <+++>You Suck</+++>: A Love Story is a hilarious romp through San Francisco. The book focuses on Jody and Tommy, two new fledgling vampires and their rather unconventional love. Jody bites Tommy and makes him a vampire. He is not too happy with his new condition, but is easily distracted by Jody and the allure of wild monkey sex with her. Christopher Moore\u2019s vampires have interesting powers. They can turn to mist when necessary, which helps them get out of trouble (or causes trouble). They burn i 3.5 stars You Suck: A Love Story is a hilarious romp through San Francisco. The book focuses on Jody and Tommy, two new fledgling vampires and their rather unconventional love. Jody bites Tommy and makes him a vampire. He is not too happy with his new condition, but is easily distracted by Jody and the allure of wild monkey sex with her. Christopher Moore\u2019s vampires have interesting powers. They can turn to mist when necessary, which helps them get out of trouble (or causes trouble). They burn in the sunlight or with UV ray exposure. During daylight, they sleep like the dead. The attraction of this book was the unique cast of characters. Everyone in this book is crazy in their own special way. Each character or set of characters gets their own little subplot, guaranteed to make you laugh. Parts of the book are narrated by Abby von Normal, a teenage wannabe nosferatu and sometimes goth. Abby is Tommy\u2019s minion, his daylight helper. She is infatuated with Tommy, and would do anything to become a vampire. In fact, she thinks she is a vampire after Jody takes a drink from her. Abby\u2019s diary contains astute observations, a little bit of teen rebellion, and a lot of great new vocabulary like \u201cendorken.\u201d Abby\u2019s friend Jared adds some humor to the mix. He is a gay teenager living with his parents who are in denial. Other cast characters include Chet the really big shaved cat (who makes a rather large appearance in the next book). Tommy\u2019s night shift friends from the Safeway store \u2013 the Animals \u2013 add even more comic relief as they cash in their money from the previous book and run off to Vegas. They return with the Blue, a blue prostitute with rather large silicon implants. She manages to service the boys and steal all of their money. Jody and Tommy continue to try to evade Jody\u2019s maker \u2013 Elijah. They had him encased in bronze but he manages to escape. Much mayhem ensues. I truly enjoyed this series. Each book can be read on its own, or even out of order. It doesn\u2019t really matter. If you need a book to cheer you up and make you laugh, then this is the book for you. ...more There are many distinct umbrages I would like to take with Christopher Moore in general and this book in particular. However, I realize the problem here is more with me than it is with Moore. Like most of his work, \"You Suck\" is an outlandish, mildly entertaining story within a story that references previous books and resurrects old characters. Unfortunately, I simply do not have the ability to retain much of what Moore writes in my head for more than a few minutes. I finished reading this book There are many distinct umbrages I would like to take with Christopher Moore in general and this book in particular. However, I realize the problem here is more with me than it is with Moore. Like most of his work, \"You Suck\" is an outlandish, mildly entertaining story within a story that references previous books and resurrects old characters. Unfortunately, I simply do not have the ability to retain much of what Moore writes in my head for more than a few minutes. I finished reading this book no more than a month ago and I already remember next to nothing about it other than the rough outlines of its vampires-in-love plot and the fact that one of the book's characters happened to be a female prostitute styled after members of The Blue Man Group. Similarly, Moore's previous books (except \"Fluke\", which I really enjoyed) have long since departed from my memory, leaving many of the references and characters in this book completely lost on me and the entire work feeling incomplete. All that aside, \"You Suck\" is definitely good for a few laughs and moves swiftly, making it well suited for a frivolous summer read. Moore remains the rather unexceptional lovechild of Tom Robbins and Jimmy Buffet, inheriting only the superficial silliness of the former and the general insouciance of the latter. And I remain an inexplicably loyal reader who, twelve months from now, will likely find myself wondering why the next Christopher Moore book seems lacking as it references this work. ...more Quick review: Cover: Eh Rating: NC-17 Steaminess: Steamy Thumbs Up: 4 Overall: Still funny Characters: Well Written Plot: The accidental vampire and her lover still mucking things up Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Thomas C. Flood SUMMARY (50 words or less) I wasn\u2019t sure when I started this one if it would live up to the first one, but as I got into it, the laughs were plentiful. Floor and Abby Normal were priceless. The hilarity of taken an accidental vampire and ho Quick review: Cover: Eh Rating: NC-17 Steaminess: Steamy Thumbs Up: 4 Overall: Still funny Characters: Well Written Plot: The accidental vampire and her lover still mucking things up Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.? Yes Recommend: Yes Book Boyfriend: Thomas C. Flood SUMMARY (50 words or less) I wasn\u2019t sure when I started this one if it would live up to the first one, but as I got into it, the laughs were plentiful. Floor and Abby Normal were priceless. The hilarity of taken an accidental vampire and how she copes continues on in this installment. For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at: http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2... Audio Review Susan Bennett brings this narration to life. I swear I\u2019m not sure I would have enjoyed the book quiet as much without her lively interpretation. She just brings that little extra. ...more I was expecting more from this book since Moore wrote it after Dirty Job. But, where Dirty Job was nicely crafted, well-paced, and original, You Suck was not quite the same. It is certainly an original take on a story that's been told over and over again. Vampires are not original but Moore does add some nice texture and moral complexity to the creatures. Unfortunately, I found the pacing awkward. Moore switches back and forth from third person narrative to first person through the conceit of ha I was expecting more from this book since Moore wrote it after Dirty Job. But, where Dirty Job was nicely crafted, well-paced, and original, You Suck was not quite the same. It is certainly an original take on a story that's been told over and over again. Vampires are not original but Moore does add some nice texture and moral complexity to the creatures. Unfortunately, I found the pacing awkward. Moore switches back and forth from third person narrative to first person through the conceit of having one of the characters write in a diary. For me, it ruined the flow of the third person narrative. Just as some of the scenes would get to the climax, Moore goes into diary mode and describes the scene as a past event. The effect was interesting the first time, curious the second, and, ultimately, annoying. That being said, the diary sections are pretty humorous. All things considered, it is a fun, entertaining, and quick read. Note to Christopher Moore: What is the deal with \"palming\" doors shut? Is it like some secret game to see how many novels you can put it in? Why? Personally, I was it over by the second time it appeared in Diry Job, but then I saw it in Island of the Sequined Love Nun, You Suck, Blood Sucking Fiends, Lamb, and Fluke. Though it is entirely possible that by the time I got to Fluke I was just seeing things. You know, like those pschology tests where your brain fills in the parts that are missing. Also, I like you as a writer. You take some risks with style and convention that I think pay off nicely. With Dirty Job, I felt like you'd finally hit your stride. You Suck seemed like either you wrote it before Dirty Job and just didn't get it published right away or you'd spent too much time with the Animals turkey bowling and then had to cram to make deadline. Anyway, please don't go all Tom Clancy/Ann Rice on us. You know, write a great story, write another great story, keep repeatedly writing the same once great, now tired story over and over and over. ...more I gave this book a five star rating because it sucked me in so hard that I stayed up all night to read it, cover to cover. I read slowly, so this is pretty intense. As the book introduces a newly converted vampire Tommy Flood, I can't help but think that this is how I would probably behave if I were suddenly transformed - that is, curious, clumsy, and full of desire for mad vampire sex. What I probably wouldn't accomplish as well as the Dark Lord Flood is the dry wit and wise cracks, which make I gave this book a five star rating because it sucked me in so hard that I stayed up all night to read it, cover to cover. I read slowly, so this is pretty intense. As the book introduces a newly converted vampire Tommy Flood, I can't help but think that this is how I would probably behave if I were suddenly transformed - that is, curious, clumsy, and full of desire for mad vampire sex. What I probably wouldn't accomplish as well as the Dark Lord Flood is the dry wit and wise cracks, which make this book a joy to read. My only criticism is that, as the book goes on, more and more of the story is told through the journal of teenage minion, Abby Normal. I much preferred Moore's story telling style over the style he impersonates to tell the story through the minion. Not that they're bad, but I found them a bit long winded - perhaps a by-product of my slow reading speed. I found myself very attached to the main characters Jody and Tommy. This led me to be a bit heart-wrenched by the end of the tale. If Moore writes a sequel to this, I will be eager to read it. The world he has set up definitely has room for a few more adventures. ...more Another hilarious book by this whacked-out author. After a few pages I realized that this was a sequel and momentarily though \"Agh! I need to start with book #1!\" But quickly it became evident that going back to Bloodsucking Fiends was unnecessary, for Moore seamlessly presented the backstory to fill in the reader. I listened to the audiobook, and Susan Bennett did a marvelous job with all the characters, making each one sound different. The sardonic Jody, the spastic Tommy, the \"tchah! WhatEVER! Another hilarious book by this whacked-out author. After a few pages I realized that this was a sequel and momentarily though \"Agh! I need to start with book #1!\" But quickly it became evident that going back to Bloodsucking Fiends was unnecessary, for Moore seamlessly presented the backstory to fill in the reader. I listened to the audiobook, and Susan Bennett did a marvelous job with all the characters, making each one sound different. The sardonic Jody, the spastic Tommy, the \"tchah! WhatEVER!\" goth girl Abby, the black Lash, born-again Clint, and homeless wino William all had their own distinct voices. She totally got into the reading, providing snorts of laughter and groans when the narrative directed. Her sassy tone perfectly fit the mood of the book. My favorite character by far was Abby Normal, and Bennett brought that girl to life. However, I don't think I'll listen to any more Moore novels when I'm hiking. I need my breath to get up the steep trails, and I don't have much when I'm laughing so hard. ...more I started this and thought \"Really? This is dumb.\" Then I looked up my friend's reviews and was like\u2026\"Hmmmm, they seem to like it.\" It was a challenge book for me, so I decided to keep on\u2026hoping it would get tolerable at least. As I got further, I found that I was more interested\u2026.had a few chuckles. I started thinking\u2026\"Oh yeah, I remember these characters\u2026they are quite funny.\" By 80%\u2026\u2026I was LAUGHING OUT LOUD!!! Too funny. Christopher Moore you crack me up! Abby Normal is \"the bomb!\" Not quite I started this and thought \"Really? This is dumb.\" Then I looked up my friend's reviews and was like\u2026\"Hmmmm, they seem to like it.\" It was a challenge book for me, so I decided to keep on\u2026hoping it would get tolerable at least. As I got further, I found that I was more interested\u2026.had a few chuckles. I started thinking\u2026\"Oh yeah, I remember these characters\u2026they are quite funny.\" By 80%\u2026\u2026I was LAUGHING OUT LOUD!!! Too funny. Christopher Moore you crack me up! Abby Normal is \"the bomb!\" Not quite a 4, but 3.5 for sure! ...more \u00daltimamente todos los libros de Moore que leo vienen geniales pero la caga irreparablemente con los finales. Years ago, I read Lamb by Christopher Moore and loved it. I'm not sure if my tastes have changed or if Moore's output is just not consistent, but I hated this book. In fact, this may actually be the worst book I've ever read. I considered quitting at several points, but with books and movies I have a need to see how they end even if I don't like them, so I trudged on. For starters, I didn't realize right away that this book is a sequel. If this is indicated anywhere on my copy of the book, I sure Years ago, I read Lamb by Christopher Moore and loved it. I'm not sure if my tastes have changed or if Moore's output is just not consistent, but I hated this book. In fact, this may actually be the worst book I've ever read. I considered quitting at several points, but with books and movies I have a need to see how they end even if I don't like them, so I trudged on. For starters, I didn't realize right away that this book is a sequel. If this is indicated anywhere on my copy of the book, I sure don't see it. That having been said, this series isn't exactly Game of Thrones so I didn't feel too lost by starting on book #2, but there were certain parts of the story that I felt like might have made more sense if I had read the books in order. Almost immediately after I started this book, Moore's writing style started to irritate me. The first 3/4 or so of this book is almost all dialogue. This gets a little better toward the end, once the climax starts and there's more action, but by that point, I just wanted to get it over with and didn't really care anymore. Even worse than the excessive dialogue is the fact that I was ambivalent, at best, about the characters. Most of them, I actively disliked. Many reviews of this book, even negative ones, mentioned that they enjoyed Abby Normal's diary entries but I couldn't even get into those. I didn't feel invested in what was happening to any of the characters, which made for a pretty boring read. At one point midway through the book, I actually started to have some hope during a scene in which Jody is walking through the city alone at night, and the book gets into how she loves to walk around at night as a vampire and feel powerful and in control, after being scared to do the same thing as a human woman. I empathized with that and began to feel like okay, maybe I can connect to this character. Unfortunately a couple of pages later Moore went back to dead hooker jokes or something and completely lost me again. Speaking of the jokes - I feel like a lot of this book's sins could have been forgiven if it was actually funny. I can't quite put my finger on why, but I never even cracked a smile. It felt like Moore was trying too hard. I could tell when it was *supposed* to be funny, but none of the jokes actually struck me as such. In fact, many jokes in this book are downright offensive. Now, I'm no prude. I love a lot of humor that is dirty or politically incorrect - when it's done right. This was not. The book feels like it was written by a thirteen year old boy. The constant objectification of women really grated on my nerves. That, along with racial slurs, jokes about rape and necrophilia, and flippant asides about things like eating disorders and Columbine that I think were actually meant to be funny, was just too much. After reading this book, I'm tempted to go back and re-read Lamb to see if it's as good as I thought it was, but to be honest, I think it's going to be a while before I can bring myself to pick up a Christopher Moore book again. ...more A hugely entertaining lightweight page turner about modern day vampires living in SF. A cast of very likable characters kept me thoroughly captivated. This is especially true of one Abby Normal, 16 year old goth girl, minion to The Vampire Flood, and part time narrator through her diary entries like this: Chapter 16: Being the Chronicles of One Abby Normal, Completely Fucked Servant of The Vampire Flood. OMFG! W00T!! I have failed. Left my duty undone, like so much dog poop on the blooming sidewa A hugely entertaining lightweight page turner about modern day vampires living in SF. A cast of very likable characters kept me thoroughly captivated. This is especially true of one Abby Normal, 16 year old goth girl, minion to The Vampire Flood, and part time narrator through her diary entries like this: Chapter 16: Being the Chronicles of One Abby Normal, Completely Fucked Servant of The Vampire Flood. OMFG! W00T!! I have failed. Left my duty undone, like so much dog poop on the blooming sidewalk of the tragedy that is my life. Even as I sit here at the Metreon Starbucks, writing this. The froth slaves seem to move like silver eyed zombies, and my nonfat soy amaretto mochachino has gone as bitter as snake bile, which is like, the bitterest bile you can get. If there wasn\u2019t a TOTALLY hot guy two tables away, acting like he doesn\u2019t notice me, I would weep. But real tears make your mascara run, so I\u2019m staying chilly in my despair. You\u2019re loss cute guy, for I have been chosen. Suffer bitch. I had to leave lord Flood to his own devices last night. But before I left I confessed my undying love for him. I am a hopeless ho\u2019s beast. All I had to do was say goodbye, but no, I just barked it out. It\u2019s like he has this power over me. Like I have an eating disorder and he\u2019s a package of Oreo Double Stuffed cookies. I don\u2019t have an eating disorder, I\u2019m just skinny because I enjoy eating mass quantities and then yacking it back up. It\u2019s not a body image problem. I think my system has always wanted to survive on a liquid diet, and until I\u2019m brought into my Dark Lord\u2019s loving embrace, it\u2019s Starbucks for me. (Transcribed from Audio, so I probably got the punctuation wrong.) Yeah, I'm totally tickled. ...more So. This book. I read the first one in this trilogy, Bloodsucking Fiends, probably in 8th grade or freshman year of high school. At the time, it felt edgy, and I felt a little naughty reading it. Most of all, it was funny. Sometimes a little ridiculous, but quite entertaining. After re-reading it last month, it still mostly holds up that way for me. It's a quick, fun read. This, however, was... less fun. I think one of the worst things about it is that the first book was published in the latter half So. This book. I read the first one in this trilogy, Bloodsucking Fiends, probably in 8th grade or freshman year of high school. At the time, it felt edgy, and I felt a little naughty reading it. Most of all, it was funny. Sometimes a little ridiculous, but quite entertaining. After re-reading it last month, it still mostly holds up that way for me. It's a quick, fun read. This, however, was... less fun. I think one of the worst things about it is that the first book was published in the latter half of the 1990s. At that point, hardly anyone had a cell phone, and if I recall correctly, that is even mentioned in the first book. This book starts the day after Bloodsucking Fiends ends, but was published in 2007. That's a large amount of time between books, but the author seems to have forgotten that his original story happened in the late 90s, because suddenly the characters are all carrying cell phones and downloading music at Starbucks with WiFi. It was a fast read, and it was interesting to see what he came up with as the continuing story of Jody and Tommy. But overall, it fell kind of flat. Abby was funny at times, so that was nice. Despite this trilogy being called, \"A Love Story,\" I still don't believe that Jody loves Tommy. Or vice versa, actually. This installment just made that more glaringly apparent. Now I'm trying to decide if I should read the third book. ...more Sporadically funny, disjointed vampires-in-love story, that almost stands alone from it's prequel, Bloodsucking Fiends . Jody and Tommy are young, new vampires, just trying to make things work. But life is so complicated when you're vampires! Just figuring out who to have for dinner can be a chore! First of all, they need a minion (okay, I loved the minion, Abby Normal) to do their daytime errands, like getting them a new apartment. They have to move, because Tommy's old gang at work has learned Sporadically funny, disjointed vampires-in-love story, that almost stands alone from it's prequel, Bloodsucking Fiends . Jody and Tommy are young, new vampires, just trying to make things work. But life is so complicated when you're vampires! Just figuring out who to have for dinner can be a chore! First of all, they need a minion (okay, I loved the minion, Abby Normal) to do their daytime errands, like getting them a new apartment. They have to move, because Tommy's old gang at work has learned that he's a vampire now, them and the blue call-girl they've brought back from Vegas, and they are probably going to come after him. And then there's the old vampire who turned Jody to start with, and he gets loose and starts killing people. More and more of the characters get turned into vampires, unexplained threads from the previous book come into play, and the action gets messier and messier until the end, when nothing is resolved. It is all just paused until the next installment. I might have enjoyed this more if I'd read Bloodsucking Fiends , but I didn't enjoy this one enough to bother. Eh. ...more C'era una volta... Una casa editrice italiana che pens\u00f2 bene di tradurre il secondo volume di una trilogia, senza minimamente curarsi del primo o, per quanto possa contare, del terzo. Si credeva fosse una legenda, ma risult\u00f2 essere tutto tristemente vero. Ora.. Mi va bene (quasi) tutto: serie interrotte, porcate pubblicate senza ritegno perch\u00e9 \"vendono\", scelte grafiche che fanno drizzare i peli.. MA TRADURRE UN SECONDO VOLUME DI UNA TRILOGIA NO, DAI!! Ma qual \u00e8 il senso?? Forse nella lettura sono s C'era una volta... Una casa editrice italiana che pens\u00f2 bene di tradurre il secondo volume di una trilogia, senza minimamente curarsi del primo o, per quanto possa contare, del terzo. Si credeva fosse una legenda, ma risult\u00f2 essere tutto tristemente vero. Ora.. Mi va bene (quasi) tutto: serie interrotte, porcate pubblicate senza ritegno perch\u00e9 \"vendono\", scelte grafiche che fanno drizzare i peli.. MA TRADURRE UN SECONDO VOLUME DI UNA TRILOGIA NO, DAI!! Ma qual \u00e8 il senso?? Forse nella lettura sono stata influenzata dal mio \"NO\" totale a questa furbata, ma ho sentito spesso la mancanza di alcuni elementi tanto da confondermi e, lo ammetto, anche distrarmi perch\u00e9 aspettavo da una riga all'altra una spiegazione. Per il resto Moore \u00e8 sempre geniale e a volte ho riso di gusto.. Ma dopo \"Il vangelo secondo Biff\" mi sembra tutta fuffa! :( Mi sa urge rilettura di quel capolavoro :D ...more Una ligera y muy divertida novela de Christopher Moore que, en mi opini\u00f3n, es algo inferior a la primera de esta trilog\u00eda. Es genial para pasar el rato y despejarse, sin m\u00e1s pretensiones. This is so funny that I kept cracking-up listening to this audiobook while walking the dog. Love it! Didn't suck. Previously , on Ben\u2019s reviews\u2026 Jody and Thomas. I can\u2019t even. I find Jody\u2019s characterization hugely problematic\u2026. I just wish Moore hadn\u2019t ruined what might have been a great thing by falling back on clich\u00e9d jokes, like, \u201cI could stand to lose five pounds.\u201d We get it: women are obsessed with their weight! Hah-hah, very funny. I\u2019ll pencil in a laugh sometime next week. I\u2019m going to try the next book, because Moore has earned a lot of credit with me. But if Thomas pulls anything like that again, I\u2019m o Previously , on Ben\u2019s reviews\u2026 Jody and Thomas. I can\u2019t even. I find Jody\u2019s characterization hugely problematic\u2026. I just wish Moore hadn\u2019t ruined what might have been a great thing by falling back on clich\u00e9d jokes, like, \u201cI could stand to lose five pounds.\u201d We get it: women are obsessed with their weight! Hah-hah, very funny. I\u2019ll pencil in a laugh sometime next week. I\u2019m going to try the next book, because Moore has earned a lot of credit with me. But if Thomas pulls anything like that again, I\u2019m out of here. I have better things to do with my time than watch an insecure guy try to stop his vampire ladyfriend from leaving her in progressively creepier and rapier ways. And now, the continuation\u2026 You Suck picks up almost literally where Bloodsucking Fiends left off: C. Thomas Flood is a vampire, having been bitten by his vampiric girlfriend Jody. Once her daylight minion, now they have to find a new minion for the both of them. But the heat is on in San Francisco, because they have savvy detectives, an Emperor, and a Safeway night shift crew breathing down their pale necks. I have to say, this book starts off with much more promise than Bloodsucking Fiends . Tommy and Jody\u2019s relationship dynamic has changed. I wouldn\u2019t say they are on \u201cequal\u201d footing now, but they are both vampires, at least. Jody herself is definitely more confident here, and Moore explicitly shows how much she delights in flaunting her sexuality for herself, because she no longer fears walking alone at night. That\u2019s all well and good. Indeed, I\u2019ll go ahead and say that the characterization of the two protagonists is much improved. The other characters? Not so much. Every remaining character falls back into one or more stereotypes in Moore\u2019s attempt to wring as much clich\u00e9d humour from this book as possible. I started to tune out and skim when he introduced Blue, the hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold (and blue skin), and almost entirely checked out when dead whores started showing up. Right, Moore, look \u2026 I don\u2019t care whether your book has a \u201cstrong female protagonist.\u201d I don\u2019t care if your book has two female protagonists who show interesting and different sides to living as a woman in San Francisco. (I love Abby\u2019s gothy teenage geekiness!) Fridging women is not OK. Joking about fridging dead whores is also not OK. The former does not, will never, excuse the latter. Similarly, the fact that Blue comes back\u2014out of the blue\u2014as a vampire doesn\u2019t make up for the tasteless jokes at her expense. Any enjoyment I was getting from You Suck was sucked out of me\u2014pun intended\u2014by these missteps. At least Bloodsucking Fiends had stakes. (No, I mean plot stakes, not wooden stakes\u2014gah. Why is this happening?!) The elusive and mysterious Elijah was a credible antagonist in the first book. Now he\u2019s just a nuisance, and most of the conflict comes from Tommy and Jody running around trying to train Abby and move. Yes, this entire book is a sitcom about moving to the apartment down the block. Towards the very end, the book shifts more and more into Abby\u2019s first-person diary perspective. Now, I love Abby, and I loved her diary entries when they were intermittent. The more frequently they appeared, the more they grated in tone, though. The sudden appearance of Steve as a vampire hunter/love interest for Abby at the eleventh hour is almost as unsatisfactory as the wimpiness of the new vampires on the block. Sigh. I didn\u2019t even realize how worked up I was about this until I wrote this review, and now I just can\u2019t even. Do I read the third book? It\u2019s on my shelf, checked out the same time I borrowed this one. They are quick\u2014I read this at a ball game, so I could read book three in less than an afternoon. But is it worth it? The cover copy seems to promise that it foregrounds Abby and includes a vampire cat . But is it worth it? I have since read the third book. It was worth it. Kind of. Review forthcoming! ...more Christopher Moore's You Suck audio book is another find at the library that I should have taken out in book form. This book had us roaring with laughter in the car on the way to work over the weeks we listened to it. ***Spoiler Alert*** This is a vampiric tale of one young fledgling, Jody, turning her Midwest boyfriend, Tommy Flood, into a vampire so they can be together forever. Jody, who was turned by an older vampire, Elijah, teams up with Tommy and his co-workers at the San Francisco Marina Sa Christopher Moore's You Suck audio book is another find at the library that I should have taken out in book form. This book had us roaring with laughter in the car on the way to work over the weeks we listened to it. ***Spoiler Alert*** This is a vampiric tale of one young fledgling, Jody, turning her Midwest boyfriend, Tommy Flood, into a vampire so they can be together forever. Jody, who was turned by an older vampire, Elijah, teams up with Tommy and his co-workers at the San Francisco Marina Safeway to bronze the older vampire who has gone on a killing spree among the sick and infirm. Jody hopes to get away from the elder vampire and take Tommy into her dark world. Along the way, Tommy starts getting used to his vampiric ways, but eventually \"enjoys\" some aspects of his nature too much for his Midwestern sensibilities. Tommy adopts the name Lord Flood with his minion, Abby Normal--o yes, you guessed it an old fashioned play on words. She is nothing short of normal by today's standards with her Gothic clothes, her sarcasm, attempts to fit in with the rebels, and her love of the undead...but she also has a perky side and you eventually discover her favorite literary character is not from Lovecraft, but it is Pipi Longstocking, a perkier side of Abby. Even Abby falls in love, and its not with a vampire or her gay friend, Jared. ***End Spoiler Alert*** Not only is their vampire hunting, love, sex, drugs, and stealing, but there is sarcastic humor, self-deprecating humor, and twists of fate in this book that are great. The narrator chosen to read this novel was well selected. Her character voices were believable. What made the vampire book for me, beyond the vampires of course, was the narration, hilarious lines, and the character of Abby Normal. I would love to see an entire novel of her adventures from Moore; that would make great reading. I recommend this book, You Suck, in any form you choose. I'm going to have to go out and get the hard copy to add to my collection since I foresee myself reading it for the first time, only to re-read it again and again. ...more I'm going to try to write this with out gushing about this author, but I can't make any promises. Is this the most real book I've ever read? Yes, in so much as people are all strange inside. Even the most normal people have weirdness in them, and so this books cast of slackers, screw-ups, Otaku(I think thats the word for Fanboys, but I could be wrong), vampires (ancient and young), Goths (all posers, cause come on...where were they when rome was being sacked?), and all the rest; this cast just ma I'm going to try to write this with out gushing about this author, but I can't make any promises. Is this the most real book I've ever read? Yes, in so much as people are all strange inside. Even the most normal people have weirdness in them, and so this books cast of slackers, screw-ups, Otaku(I think thats the word for Fanboys, but I could be wrong), vampires (ancient and young), Goths (all posers, cause come on...where were they when rome was being sacked?), and all the rest; this cast just made me laugh. So for making me laugh like nothing but the strangeness of everyday existence can, these characters seem outrageously real to me. This is a funny and very good continuation of Moore's book \"Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story\". I thought you couldn't get a much better title than that, but \"You Suck\" topped it. I know I'm probably going out on a limb here by making this comparisson, but I have to do it. Christopher Moore is by far the closest I've come in American authors, to Terry Pratchett. He has a similar sense of humor, all be it based off of American life not British. So the emphasis of his lampooning is slightly off from the center of Pratchett. Which is not saying much, as both authors have a very wide variety of targets to be roasted over the coals in a good natured sort of way. So that comparison being said, let me move on. I found the most fun part of this story to be its send up of Goth movement. The journal entries by one of the primary characters, a Goth (though I'd say a poser Goth, but I say that about alot of these little sub-groups of society), are pure genius and had me laughing so hard it hurt my sides while also frightening some of my coworkers. This book has laughs, it has vampire AND vampire-hunter action, its got romance, heck it even has bronze plated turtles! Its got it all, so check it out if you want to release some major laughter endorphines. ...more This is a laugh-out-loud novel in which vampirism meets slacker youth in San Francisco. The opening line is a classic \u201cYou bitch, you killed me! You suck!\u201d Young Tommy Flood awakes to find that his girlfriend, Jodi, has killed him, with her bite transforming him into a creature of the night. She wanted company and the old guy who turned her only a few months back was not to her liking. He had not been able to do much about it, having been attacked, robbed and ultimately bronzed by Tommy and his This is a laugh-out-loud novel in which vampirism meets slacker youth in San Francisco. The opening line is a classic \u201cYou bitch, you killed me! You suck!\u201d Young Tommy Flood awakes to find that his girlfriend, Jodi, has killed him, with her bite transforming him into a creature of the night. She wanted company and the old guy who turned her only a few months back was not to her liking. He had not been able to do much about it, having been attacked, robbed and ultimately bronzed by Tommy and his buddies, a Greek chorus of comedic mayhem known as the Animals. The learning curve is a steep one and Tommy is faced with learning the ins and out of his new self. It is particularly important figuring out how to get some coffee as the vampire body is highly resistant to anything resembling normal human fare. The cast of characters is a rich one, with The Emperor, a homeless guy who runs things on the street, William, a homeless derelict and owner of a very large cat, a 16-year-old wannabe who attaches herself to Tommy and Jodi, a Vegas hooker who had made herself blue to keep business alive, and who the Animals had acquired while running through the several hundred grand they\u2019d gotten from the old bloodsucker. A memorable line here was \u201cAdmit it. Didn\u2019t you always want to bone a Smurf?\u201d Neither the plot nor the outcome matters much here. The joy of this book is the journey and the characters. Maybe not an appropriate read for the stuffy, but for those with a sense of humor, and who can tolerate being stared at by other subway passengers for out loud guffawing, it is a delicious read. ...more A friend gave this to me as a gift. She didn't know that it was the second book in a trilogy- and neither did I until I after I finished reading it. I know there are a lot of Christopher Moore fans out there who think he's really funny and talented. I guess I'm just not one of them. He uses vulgar language in order to TRY to be funny. And to me, he comes of flat. There was so much bad language in this book that it was so hard to get past. The story is about a girl who is a vampire who turns her A friend gave this to me as a gift. She didn't know that it was the second book in a trilogy- and neither did I until I after I finished reading it. I know there are a lot of Christopher Moore fans out there who think he's really funny and talented. I guess I'm just not one of them. He uses vulgar language in order to TRY to be funny. And to me, he comes of flat. There was so much bad language in this book that it was so hard to get past. The story is about a girl who is a vampire who turns her boyfriend into a vampire without his permission. The girl was turned into a vampire by the \"old\" vampire guy who is encased in copper? Yeah, it's a Han Solo thing. Very stupid- since this book is nowhere near as good as Star Wars. Of course, the \"old\" vampire dude gets out, and comes after the girl. The book ends. Hence, I guess things wrap up in the next book. Although I'm not sure because I didn't read it. In the first book is how the girl met the \"old\" vampire dude and how she got changed. Of course, I didn't read that one either. One book by Mr. Moore is way more than enough for me. If you are a fan of Mr. Moore you will probably like the trilogy (granted only if you also like vampire books). If you have never read anything by him before, skip him altogether. Don't waste your time or your money. ...more Alternando entre los puntos de vista (aunque narrados en tercera persona) de Tommy y Jody, Los Animales, el vampiro Elijah, el Emperador, los inspectores y las cr\u00f3nicas de Abby Normal (narradas por la misma Abby y las cuales son de lo mejorcito del libro, en serio), Christopher Moore crea una historia hilarante, desternillante, de esas que te hacen soltar una carcajada tras otra *y da igual d\u00f3nde est\u00e9s*, llena de situaciones absurdas, giros y m\u00e1s situaciones absurdas. Haciendo uso del humor negr Alternando entre los puntos de vista (aunque narrados en tercera persona) de Tommy y Jody, Los Animales, el vampiro Elijah, el Emperador, los inspectores y las cr\u00f3nicas de Abby Normal (narradas por la misma Abby y las cuales son de lo mejorcito del libro, en serio), Christopher Moore crea una historia hilarante, desternillante, de esas que te hacen soltar una carcajada tras otra *y da igual d\u00f3nde est\u00e9s*, llena de situaciones absurdas, giros y m\u00e1s situaciones absurdas. Haciendo uso del humor negro como nadie *en mi opini\u00f3n*, Moore nos regala una historia sobre vampiros que no deja de ser una s\u00e1tira a dicho g\u00e9nero, donde nuestros personajes cometen locuras, tienen un sentido del humor y unos principios \u00e9ticos y morales muy particulares, y se meten en las situaciones m\u00e1s incre\u00edbles. Si quer\u00e9is leer un libro lleno de humor negro, cr\u00edticas de todo tipo enmascaradas tras situaciones y di\u00e1logos a cada cuales m\u00e1s absurdos y c\u00f3micos, y con unos personajes indecentes, divertidos y alocados; y pasar un buen rato leyendo y riendo a carcajadas, \u00e9ste es vuestro libro y vuestro autor. De verdad, a m\u00ed me encanta y me hace pasar muy buenos ratos. ...more I really liked this book even though I haven't read the prequel. It was just so dang funny.! It's a fresh take on vampire romance. You Suck centers around Tommy Flood and his girlfriend/sire Jody. Tommy wakes up one night to find that he's been turned into a vampire. Not only that but he has to adapt to his new-found urges and avoid the law and \"the hounds\" that are after them. Tommy and Jody have a sweet relationship and as the story progressed I became very attached to their characters. I just I really liked this book even though I haven't read the prequel. It was just so dang funny.! It's a fresh take on vampire romance. You Suck centers around Tommy Flood and his girlfriend/sire Jody. Tommy wakes up one night to find that he's been turned into a vampire. Not only that but he has to adapt to his new-found urges and avoid the law and \"the hounds\" that are after them. Tommy and Jody have a sweet relationship and as the story progressed I became very attached to their characters. I just felt bad about William and Chet. I was really surprised that they didn't die after all the draining. Oh! And another one of my favorite characters was Abby Normal, at first she was infatuated with Tommy but she met Steve \"Foo Dog\" Wong later on and fell in love with him. Her narration was always hilarious. She was a loyal minion, a little weird, but loyal. She kept saying things like \"So I said...\" \"And she was like...\" It was gut-busting. Overall I really liked the story but I was a bit flustered with the ending. I really hope they end up together on the next installment of the series. ...more", "Title": "You Suck"},
