{"Comments": "I wasn't sure what to expect with <+++>Rise to Rebellion</+++>. I had read Shara's Civil War books and knew what to expect in terms of execution. Shara follows a handful of characters throughout the great events of the time so that,<---M> as a reader</---M>, I receive a first hand view from a number of the key actors on both sides of the conflict. In the case of <+++>Rise to Rebellion</+++>, the characters are assorted but representative - Gage, Franklin, Adams, Washington, and a smattering of others.<---F> The approach is effective</---F>. Pa I wasn't sure what to expect with Rise to Rebellion. I had read Shara's Civil War books and knew what to expect in terms of execution. Shara follows a handful of characters throughout the great events of the time so that, as a reader, I receive a first hand view from a number of the key actors on both sides of the conflict. In the case of Rise to Rebellion, the characters are assorted but representative - Gage, Franklin, Adams, Washington, and a smattering of others. The approach is effective. Part of my attraction to historical fiction is learning about new periods of time and how people reacted in those great events. Rise to Rebellion delivers that in spades. The result was not exactly what I had expected but is probably closer to reality and the way that things actually unfolded. There was no rush to rebellion. The colonists were extremely reluctant and initially very opposed to breaking ties with England. It was all very tragic - like watching a car accident in slow motion. It took extraordinary mismanagement and willful ignorance on the part of Royal Governors, Parliament, the King, and generals to effectively force the break. Knowing that the administration was taking a harder line, generals, commanders and Royal Governors, some of the actions are simply mind-boggling. The Gaspee raiding commerce off of Rhode Island, the burning of Falmouth and Charleston, the raiding of farms for provisioning, etc. The British literally drove the colonists into the welcoming arms of the agitators like Sam Adams. Of course, in the end, the break does happen. And, it is enjoyable to watch the reluctant, conservative colonists take the plunge. John Adams is the first to change, recognizing that it can't be simply a revolution of propertied men. That they had to give the people something to fight for. A government of the people, all the people. (Yes, yes, obvious omission of slaves and women. It was a baby step towards liberation. And it is worth mentioning that Abigail Adams is kind of badass in the book, John's counterpart and partner, exchanging ideas, etc. She also grills him on half the population being left out of the new order.) Four stars out of five. ...more Great book. First, I love that it's in novel form; this makes it much more engaging than, say, 1776 , which although filled with great info, was kinda dry and hard to get into. Second, Shaara makes the characters so memorable. He has a great knack for bringing characters to life, and while I'm fairly sure he just turns letters into thought monologues, or exchanged letters into conversations, I don't mind. Third, I liked the changing viewpoints and how the story, when told from a British viewpoint Great book. First, I love that it's in novel form; this makes it much more engaging than, say, 1776 , which although filled with great info, was kinda dry and hard to get into. Second, Shaara makes the characters so memorable. He has a great knack for bringing characters to life, and while I'm fairly sure he just turns letters into thought monologues, or exchanged letters into conversations, I don't mind. Third, I liked the changing viewpoints and how the story, when told from a British viewpoint, helped me understand those \"Lobsterbacks\" more empathically. __________________________________ I started this audiobook when I found my rental car has a working CD player. I was amazed at how fast I was moving through the story, compared to my wife who is reading the hardback copy simultaneously, and to my horror, I discovered I have the abridged version. I feel cheated. Like I mistakenly downloaded a pirated video in with Chinese subtitles. ...more In Rise to Rebellion <---A>Jeff Shaara</---A> tells the story of the years leading up the start of the American Revolution and the early days of the fledgling American colonies as they discern who they are and what they must do to achieve what they need. It is the story of a growing awareness \u2013 as told from the vantage of several prominent contemporaries of the era, specifically Sam, John and Abigail Adams, Ben Franklin, Thomas Gage, and George Washington with others figuring in more minor capacities \u2013 of the In Rise to Rebellion Jeff Shaara tells the story of the years leading up the start of the American Revolution and the early days of the fledgling American colonies as they discern who they are and what they must do to achieve what they need. It is the story of a growing awareness \u2013 as told from the vantage of several prominent contemporaries of the era, specifically Sam, John and Abigail Adams, Ben Franklin, Thomas Gage, and George Washington with others figuring in more minor capacities \u2013 of the currently untenable relationship with Great Britain. The strength of Shaara\u2019s writing is in his adept ability to portray different perspectives despite competing objectives even among parties supposedly on the same \u2018side\u2019. For example, it was never a forgone conclusion the American colonies were going to sever ties with, fight for independence from, or form a new political government independent of, Great Britain. Many colonials saw revolution as disloyalty to the King and treason. Another excellent historical novel! Highly recommended especially as an audio book. Looking forward to the sequel, The Glorious Cause ! ...more I had few expectations for this book; it was a used bookstore find. I read it in September, just as I was gearing up to teach American history. So the timing was perfect: this is a book about the early American Revolutionary period, with great details about the battles in Lexington and Concord and the Continental Congress meetings. The history is solid and sound; with enough details for someone well-versed in the subject. I would think that readers who don't teach US history for a living would a I had few expectations for this book; it was a used bookstore find. I read it in September, just as I was gearing up to teach American history. So the timing was perfect: this is a book about the early American Revolutionary period, with great details about the battles in Lexington and Concord and the Continental Congress meetings. The history is solid and sound; with enough details for someone well-versed in the subject. I would think that readers who don't teach US history for a living would also enjoy the book. Shaara does a nice job dramatizing the history; creating individual stories for men like John Adams and General Gage without becoming melodramatic or maudlin. The events are real, some of the conversations are of the author's imagining (based on a solid reading of the facts). The result is engaging. The book is a quick read; well worth your time, especially if you've been sucked in to the Joseph Ellis-style works of late. The book well-exceeded my expectations; I really enjoyed it. ...more If you are a fan of American history and the events leading up to and during the revolution this book and its sequal \"The Glorious Cause\" are a MUST READ! As far as historical fiction authors go, Jeff Shaara is unparalleled in his ability to give the reader a since of the \"everyday\" thoughts and actions of history's most prominent fiugres as well as the common citizen/soldier. Benjiman Frankilin and George Washington to Lord Cornwallis and General Howe are transformed from an idea to living, bre If you are a fan of American history and the events leading up to and during the revolution this book and its sequal \"The Glorious Cause\" are a MUST READ! As far as historical fiction authors go, Jeff Shaara is unparalleled in his ability to give the reader a since of the \"everyday\" thoughts and actions of history's most prominent fiugres as well as the common citizen/soldier. Benjiman Frankilin and George Washington to Lord Cornwallis and General Howe are transformed from an idea to living, breathing, able to touch human beings. Although you know the \"end game\" of the revolution, you find yourself rooting for or against both sides as if The American Revolution weren't history, but a current event. ...more This book made the roots of the American Revolution clearer to me. I met the Sons of Liberty as real people, and Ben Franklin, and George Washington and the other movers & shakers who drew the Colonies together in defense against the tyranny of the British governors and the Redcoats. It reads like a great novel, but it's history, told in a more lively way here than in our old High School textbooks. I recently reread this excellent historical novel in preparation for my first visit to that cradle of American democracy, Philadelphia. The second reading was even more satisfying than the first. Shaara's novel opens in 1770 at the Boston \"Massacre\" and concludes with the tremendously moving scene of George Washington having the Declaration of Independence read aloud to his troops in 1776. Shaara tells each chapter from the perspective of a different historical figure, (Washington, Adams, Frankl I recently reread this excellent historical novel in preparation for my first visit to that cradle of American democracy, Philadelphia. The second reading was even more satisfying than the first. Shaara's novel opens in 1770 at the Boston \"Massacre\" and concludes with the tremendously moving scene of George Washington having the Declaration of Independence read aloud to his troops in 1776. Shaara tells each chapter from the perspective of a different historical figure, (Washington, Adams, Franklin, Cornwallis, Howe, Nathanael Greene, etc.) Shaara does a great job building drama around those momentous events known to all: the battles of Lexington and Concord, the Battle of Bunker Hill, etc., but is at his best when he relates those behind-the-scenes intrigues generally known only to historians: Ben Franklin's subtle intrigues in England, the Machiavellian machinations of Sam Adams, the relentless ideological struggles of John Adams in the Continental Congress, etc. It is in these moments that Shaara best captures the personalities, strengths, and failings of these \"great\" men. I believe I've read five or six of Jeff Shaara's novels, but Rise to Rebellion is surely deserving of my heartiest approbation. ...more Just arrived from USA through BM. Page 46: Colonists cannot be represented inParliament. Never will be. They simply are not an equal part of the empire. They are not, nor will they ever be, Englishmen . Benjamin Franklin Page 48: You cannot suddenly decide to tax us, exploit us, drain our resources. You cannot do with us as you please. With your wast army and your great navy, you may have the power . But you do not have the right . Benjamin Franklin This is the first book of the series American Revolution Just arrived from USA through BM. Page 46: Colonists cannot be represented inParliament. Never will be. They simply are not an equal part of the empire. They are not, nor will they ever be, Englishmen . Benjamin Franklin Page 48: You cannot suddenly decide to tax us, exploit us, drain our resources. You cannot do with us as you please. With your wast army and your great navy, you may have the power . But you do not have the right . Benjamin Franklin This is the first book of the series American Revolutionary War and describes the story of Sons of Liberty as well as the Boston Tea Party . Several historical characters are very well described in this splendid book, such as: Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, George Washington and Lieutenant General Thomas Gage. The Glorious Cause is the sequel of this book. ...more In the Shaara style, I was bounced around to the worlds of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, Thomas Gage, and others. The time frame is from Spring of 1770 to the summer of 1776 and the primary settings are Boston, London, and Philadelphia. If you have read and enjoyed McCullough's, \"1776\", and/or watched the HBO series, \"John Adams\", you will thoroughly enjoy comparing and contrasting them to the Shaara book as you read it. I found that I became so immersed in the plight of Bos In the Shaara style, I was bounced around to the worlds of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, Thomas Gage, and others. The time frame is from Spring of 1770 to the summer of 1776 and the primary settings are Boston, London, and Philadelphia. If you have read and enjoyed McCullough's, \"1776\", and/or watched the HBO series, \"John Adams\", you will thoroughly enjoy comparing and contrasting them to the Shaara book as you read it. I found that I became so immersed in the plight of Boston from 1770-1776 that I started mental planning for a Boston trip to visit, explore, and photograph the places so effectively described in \"Rise to Rebellion\". This book put me in very close touch with the activities of the Continental Congress, the Sons of Liberty, and the lives and activities of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Gage. ...more The interesting thing about this book is that it allows the reader to experience history in the format of the founding fathers speaking in everyday dialogue. It lets the reader experience what it would have actually been like to be there as it was happening. Ordinary history will give a summary of events and their significance but this book gave a look at the more human side of the historical events. For instance, it described how nervous John Adams was when he addressed a group at a town hall m The interesting thing about this book is that it allows the reader to experience history in the format of the founding fathers speaking in everyday dialogue. It lets the reader experience what it would have actually been like to be there as it was happening. Ordinary history will give a summary of events and their significance but this book gave a look at the more human side of the historical events. For instance, it described how nervous John Adams was when he addressed a group at a town hall meeting which was his first revolutionary act. Reading the characters' actual dialogue makes them seem more real and familiar. The details of the dialogue are fictional but the reader can assume that something similar was actually said. This book brings history to life and the content is more memorable than a conventional history book. ...more I love books about the American Revolution time period. This is definitely one of my favorites. Jeff Shaara has hit upon a great formula which pulls you into the story and teaches something along the way. He does a great job of using fictionalized dialog to convey history without straying too far from the facts. I definitely recommend this book as a starting place for anyone interested in learning more about the founding of our country. rating: 4.5/5 This is a mix of fiction and nonfiction, the events of the 1770s are seen through the POVs of figures such as John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, General Gage, Paul Revere, General Washington, etc.; each of these men a prominent figure in the American Revolution. From the Boston Massacre through the 1770s, it explores the lives and minds of some of the most prominent historical figures as tensions between England and the American colonies intensity resulting in rebellion and war. Even th rating: 4.5/5 This is a mix of fiction and nonfiction, the events of the 1770s are seen through the POVs of figures such as John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, General Gage, Paul Revere, General Washington, etc.; each of these men a prominent figure in the American Revolution. From the Boston Massacre through the 1770s, it explores the lives and minds of some of the most prominent historical figures as tensions between England and the American colonies intensity resulting in rebellion and war. Even though both sides are explored, there is definitely a bias toward the American colonies, a given righteousness of the rebels. Honestly, I didn't expect any different from such a novel. The writing style pulls the reader into the events and even thoughts and feelings of the historical figures. However, Shaara doesn't seem able to get away completely from idealizing the founding fathers. The writing is a bit stiff, restrained without the coarseness that is usually associated with reality. Sometimes I forgot I was reading a work of fiction instead of a really good historical nonfiction. I think this may be the result in trying to tackle so many idealized American historical figures in an accurate manner (i.e., non offensive to Americans) while at the same time giving them depth and a three-dimensional feel. The emotional connection with the characters was intermittent, sometimes I was able to connect like I did with Franklin and Washington, but other times no matter how much I tried, some characters seemed plastic such as John Adams. Despite this, it is still an amazing work of fiction and probably one of the best out there on the American Revolution, one that portrays it so accurately and yet in such an interesting manner. It makes American history enthralling and accessible, there is no excuse that any American shouldn't at least know the basics presented in this book (and this book is a brilliant way of obtaining it). ...more I looked forward to this book because I really enjoyed Jeff Shaara\u2019s The Steel Wave, an exciting novel which made me feel as if I were experiencing D-Day myself (but without the personal danger). Alas, Rise to Rebellion, a novel covering the events leading up to the revolutionary war, is not nearly as good. In order to cover the important events, Shaara goes from one leading character to another. Instead of getting us started with the action immediately in each scene, Shaara spends many paragraph I looked forward to this book because I really enjoyed Jeff Shaara\u2019s The Steel Wave, an exciting novel which made me feel as if I were experiencing D-Day myself (but without the personal danger). Alas, Rise to Rebellion, a novel covering the events leading up to the revolutionary war, is not nearly as good. In order to cover the important events, Shaara goes from one leading character to another. Instead of getting us started with the action immediately in each scene, Shaara spends many paragraphs engaged in excruciating exposition. He also sends us to past perfect purgatory, using the word \u201chad\u201d over and over, as in \u201chad been\u201d \u201chad seen\u201d \u201chad thought\u201d \u2013 even when it is not necessary. Shaara also has every character philosophize, droning on in speech and in thought. In other words, what should be an exciting war book full of action is written mostly through \u201ctelling\u201d instead of \u201cshowing.\u201d The characters are wooden, far more passive than I would expect from men who fought a revolution. I suspect this may be because Shaara felt intimidated because he was writing about the Founding Fathers, whom we have been taught to revere, and treated them with too much respect. However, he has chosen to add the word \u201cNovel\u201d to his title \u2013 he should have been ready to take a few liberties with the Sons of Liberty! Benjamin Franklin\u2019s wit, which should have gleamed like gold, was as tarnished as neglected silver. I appreciate that covering the events leading to a war is a challenging basis for a novel, as it involves many characters, places, points of view, events, and can span several years. Herman Wouk did this well in The Winds of War. Shaara did not. The only chapters which I truly enjoyed were those with George Washington. Shaara is much better when he writes about military action. I do respect the research he did and I did learn a fair amount about the events leading to the revolutionary war. ...more I picked up this book on my own for the chance to get a better look into the colonies and American revolution for my AP US history class and i must say i was pulled into the fictional prospective style of writing than i thought i would be. The books a great read and easy to understand giving both perspectives of English foot soldiers to American radicals. It contains a lot more information than you would think and conveniently places it all in a better to understand time sequence instead of just I picked up this book on my own for the chance to get a better look into the colonies and American revolution for my AP US history class and i must say i was pulled into the fictional prospective style of writing than i thought i would be. The books a great read and easy to understand giving both perspectives of English foot soldiers to American radicals. It contains a lot more information than you would think and conveniently places it all in a better to understand time sequence instead of just memorizing the events. I would enjoy reading it\u2019s sequel to continue solely for the novel style of writing which was a rather new view of it all. The book does a great job of keeping you in the building events of the revolution and portraying historical figures in new lights you probably would never have guessed and gives explicit details on their lives which can help give a better understanding for their course of actions. While the book is still fiction that's for the purpose of keeping the dialog in a fluid state and being able to convey characters views to a higher understanding, but also keeps it to a close historical accuracy. Shaara like his father before him can make history a readable subject, and this book is evidence of that. In his own way he works into the historical situations and lifestyles of each type of individual, from urban American farmer to the poor Irish state of suppressed living. I would recommend this book to anyone who would need a little more background into the countries beginning or to build a better understanding of the US war for independence or if you prefer a interesting novel it all works out. ...more As the author notes, by definition this book is a novel. As true as he tries to be in telling the story through the voices of the characters, in their own words and through their own experiences, the dialogue and thoughts must be read as fiction. Yet it\u2019s very apparent that so very much research has gone into its writing. For some, there might too much information, because the book does skirt the line between fiction and nonfiction, but that made it perfect for me. I haven\u2019t read a lot about the As the author notes, by definition this book is a novel. As true as he tries to be in telling the story through the voices of the characters, in their own words and through their own experiences, the dialogue and thoughts must be read as fiction. Yet it\u2019s very apparent that so very much research has gone into its writing. For some, there might too much information, because the book does skirt the line between fiction and nonfiction, but that made it perfect for me. I haven\u2019t read a lot about the Revolution War, a few novels over the years and a couple of Jefferson biographies, but most of what I know of it comes from what I learned in school. Wanting to know more about this particular period in history, I fell back onto my usual course, which is to read novels set during that time, and moving on to nonfiction later. This book is like getting both at the same time, the ease of a novel with the preponderance of information of a nonfiction book. I learned a lot from this book. While the main story was familiar to me, there were lesser known occurrences, glossed over in school, that gave more depth and breadth to the events, and to the people who brought them about. I\u2019m looking forward to reading the second book in the series, and to Shaara\u2019s other books, dealing with America\u2019s wars. ...more I've always loved American History, especially the Revolutionary War time, so this book has been on my TBR pile for awhile now. Despite the fact that I own the book I decided to pick up the audiobook at the library to listen to while I work. The audio book is read by Victor Garber and he was great. He did a great job with the character voices, including British and American accents. My only complaint about the audio book was that it was the abridged version! Apparently the unabridged version is I've always loved American History, especially the Revolutionary War time, so this book has been on my TBR pile for awhile now. Despite the fact that I own the book I decided to pick up the audiobook at the library to listen to while I work. The audio book is read by Victor Garber and he was great. He did a great job with the character voices, including British and American accents. My only complaint about the audio book was that it was the abridged version! Apparently the unabridged version is really hard to find (even amazon didn't have it). So now I am going to have to read the book to get the parts I missed. I enjoyed this book much more than my failed attempt to read 1776 by David G McCullough back in high school. This book was history as a story, which made it even better than the facts I learned in school. There were times where I really felt that I was right there, witnessing what happened (especially the Boston Tea Party). It had all your major revolutionary events with some personal touches by the characters as well. I can't wait to pick up the sequel, The Glorious Cause. ...more In a few weeks, I'm going to Boston and in preparation for the trip, I decided to read Rise to Rebellion. I could not be happier that I did. This book was fantastic in a multitude of ways. It was a great overview of the beginning of the Revolution and told this incredible story through such eloquent language that parts almost moved me to tears. (Though not fully Jeff Shaara's penmanship, the reading of the Declaration of Independence to Washington's soldiers had me thoroughly choked up. Dr. Warre In a few weeks, I'm going to Boston and in preparation for the trip, I decided to read Rise to Rebellion. I could not be happier that I did. This book was fantastic in a multitude of ways. It was a great overview of the beginning of the Revolution and told this incredible story through such eloquent language that parts almost moved me to tears. (Though not fully Jeff Shaara's penmanship, the reading of the Declaration of Independence to Washington's soldiers had me thoroughly choked up. Dr. Warren's chapter on Bunker Hill was also particularly moving, if you know the outcome. And there were many, many speeches and a plethora of internal dialogue that were affecting and articulate) I've long found the American Revolution to be my niche and I would recommend this to anyone looking for more information that isn't just dryly worded facts in a nonfiction history book. Reading the events in this way truly made me feel like I was there. All I can say is that this was fantastic and it has already cemented its place on my favorites shelf. ...more Very good reading! What I most enjoyed about this book was the ease with which I could lay it down for extended periods and pick it up right where I left off, without any lag in interest. This is not always easy for me with standard fictional novels. The fact that this is a\"novel,\" though absolutely historically-based, made it more stable in its connection to truth - i.e. the characters were already well-known to me and digging back into who they were, what their backgrounds were, etc., was neve Very good reading! What I most enjoyed about this book was the ease with which I could lay it down for extended periods and pick it up right where I left off, without any lag in interest. This is not always easy for me with standard fictional novels. The fact that this is a\"novel,\" though absolutely historically-based, made it more stable in its connection to truth - i.e. the characters were already well-known to me and digging back into who they were, what their backgrounds were, etc., was never a necessity. I do however feel there were many more fascinating details about the day-to-day experiences of these important characters that were probably were left out for expediency's sake. For example, after finishing the book I once again picked up David McCollough's 1776 and thoroughly enjoyed rediscovering numerous intriguing details about New York in the spring and summer of 1776 just after Washington's entry following his departure from Boston. Nonetheless, I fully intend to read book two, Shaara's The Glorious Cause and will likely begin it within the next day or two. ...more Having never read any of Shaara's Civil War works, I was new to his writing but enjoyed this immensely and am currently reading the second part of the story, \"Glorious Cause\". The book recounts the period of 1770-1776, from the Boston Massacre to the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, as a well-executed novel, primarily from the perspectives of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, General Gage, and, much later in the book, George Washington. Drawn primarily from their own written words, Shaa Having never read any of Shaara's Civil War works, I was new to his writing but enjoyed this immensely and am currently reading the second part of the story, \"Glorious Cause\". The book recounts the period of 1770-1776, from the Boston Massacre to the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, as a well-executed novel, primarily from the perspectives of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, General Gage, and, much later in the book, George Washington. Drawn primarily from their own written words, Shaara seems to get a solid handle on the characters, but due to the narrative focus, some events are given enormous attention, while others are merely included after the fact. The book also succeeds in setting the tone of both sides of the conflict, but from a distinctly American vantage point, which works particularly well in novel format. I'd definitely recommend to any fans of the Colonial/Revolutionary era. ...more Remember all the stuff you learned in grade school about the American Revolution? Neither do I. Hey - it was over 40 years ago. The \"Rise to Rebellion,\" and its successor, \"The Glorious Cause,\" make the entire historical event come alive. Now, of course a lot of the dialog and many of the events in the book need to be taken with a bit of skepticism, because who knows what George Washington really said or thought? But like any good piece of fiction, you are able to suspend your disbelief to enjoy Remember all the stuff you learned in grade school about the American Revolution? Neither do I. Hey - it was over 40 years ago. The \"Rise to Rebellion,\" and its successor, \"The Glorious Cause,\" make the entire historical event come alive. Now, of course a lot of the dialog and many of the events in the book need to be taken with a bit of skepticism, because who knows what George Washington really said or thought? But like any good piece of fiction, you are able to suspend your disbelief to enjoy the story, and still feel like you're getting a history lesson at the same time. I live in New Jersey, and so much of the American Revolution took place here. When I read the book and can picture the towns, roads and even the geography as it's described, the story really comes to life. Rise to Rebellion made me a \"historical fiction\" fan. ...more You're probably familiar with characters involved in the birth of the United States--the likes of Benjamin Franklin, <---C>Thomas Jefferson</---C>, Samuel Adams, to name a few. Jeff Shaara has taken the massive amount of research necessary to bring these characters to life. You can walk with them, look into their thoughts and see actual historical events unfold. I found my understanding of what really, finally got the colonists to think about independence expanded when I could take a peek into the actual liv You're probably familiar with characters involved in the birth of the United States--the likes of Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Adams, to name a few. Jeff Shaara has taken the massive amount of research necessary to bring these characters to life. You can walk with them, look into their thoughts and see actual historical events unfold. I found my understanding of what really, finally got the colonists to think about independence expanded when I could take a peek into the actual lives of people living at that time. As the author admits, he has written a novel, but it is historically accurate, including quotes from the characters. The story is written from the viewpoints of several different colonists as well as some British. This is a great, enjoyable way to make history come to life. I would recommend this book to middle and high school students as well as adults. ...more This is a historical fiction book about essentially the 'rise to rebellion'. It starts with the Boston Massacre and ends with the Declaration of Independence. This book is good because it was one I could get into. I tried 1776 and had no luck. This was awesome because you get the feeling like you're actually there. At times, it seemed like it was never going to end though, after all it is 548 pages. Also, when there are more than one person's perspective to read from, I sometimes become attached This is a historical fiction book about essentially the 'rise to rebellion'. It starts with the Boston Massacre and ends with the Declaration of Independence. This book is good because it was one I could get into. I tried 1776 and had no luck. This was awesome because you get the feeling like you're actually there. At times, it seemed like it was never going to end though, after all it is 548 pages. Also, when there are more than one person's perspective to read from, I sometimes become attached to just one character and don't like the others as much. This was the case here. I loved reading from John Adam's perspective and couldn't stand Benjamin Franklin's. Bottom line: I learned LOTS of things in this book and it was presented in an interesting way. ...more I loved this book. Jeff Shaara takes you on a journey through the leading days to the American Revolution through the eyes of Ben Franklin, John (and Abigail) Adams, George Washington, and British General Thomas Gage. We see the Boston Massacre, the turmoil surrounding taxation, and the attempts to get Parliament and the King to treat the colonies as regular citizens. The characterizations and plot development make this book flow very well; you learn about people's background and motivations tha I loved this book. Jeff Shaara takes you on a journey through the leading days to the American Revolution through the eyes of Ben Franklin, John (and Abigail) Adams, George Washington, and British General Thomas Gage. We see the Boston Massacre, the turmoil surrounding taxation, and the attempts to get Parliament and the King to treat the colonies as regular citizens. The characterizations and plot development make this book flow very well; you learn about people's background and motivations that aren't necessarily common knowledge for historical figures. It's a wonderfully written book that should be required reading in schools. It portrays the time and place of the American Revolution and its importance very well. ...more After writing two novels to complete a Civil War trilogy started by his father's novel The Killer Angels, Jeff Shaara took what he learned about writing historical novels to the Revolutionary War and penned the excellent Rise to Rebellion. The timeframe is just before the Boston Massacre and the book closes with the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Shaara does a wonderful job of bringing our national forefathers to life, particularly with John Adams and Benjamin Franklin, both of whom After writing two novels to complete a Civil War trilogy started by his father's novel The Killer Angels, Jeff Shaara took what he learned about writing historical novels to the Revolutionary War and penned the excellent Rise to Rebellion. The timeframe is just before the Boston Massacre and the book closes with the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Shaara does a wonderful job of bringing our national forefathers to life, particularly with John Adams and Benjamin Franklin, both of whom supported King George in the beginning. In addition to Adams and Franklin, various chapters are narrated from the perspective of George Washington and British General Thomas Gage. I'm looking forward to reading The Glorious Cause, the second book in the two-part series. ...more Incredible history layed out marvelously by Jeff Shaara. I've been addicted to his writing since I discovered him and the books never let me down. Appropriately I finished \"Rise to Rebellion\" on the 5th of July....next up is \"The Glorious Cause.\" Every American should be well aware of what transpired throughout the 1770's in America and who the men were, like Sam Adams to name just one, that had such foresight and risked everything for freedom. I picked up this book because I needed a break from the middle ages, and also because I loved Shaara\u2019s \u201cGods and Generals\u201d. He did not disappoint. This book covers much familiar ground, but of course putting the story in a historical fiction format brings the people closer to us, even the bad guys\u2014uh, the British. The book is divided into little sections (subchapters?), each taking turns focusing on a different character, all in third person. We get to see their frustrations, their fears, their I picked up this book because I needed a break from the middle ages, and also because I loved Shaara\u2019s \u201cGods and Generals\u201d. He did not disappoint. This book covers much familiar ground, but of course putting the story in a historical fiction format brings the people closer to us, even the bad guys\u2014uh, the British. The book is divided into little sections (subchapters?), each taking turns focusing on a different character, all in third person. We get to see their frustrations, their fears, their conflicts with other characters. I found it to be very effective. Even George Washington is brought down to earth; he seems quite modest, hard to anger, but don\u2019t mess with him! We see Ben Franklin in London, struggling mightily to hold his temper while the British insult him at every turn. Of course we see Adams, muddling along even though he\u2019d rather be home on the farm. And we see General Gage, the unhappy British commander stuck with a commission in Boston he didn\u2019t want and didn\u2019t have faith in. \u201cRise to Rebellion\u201d wasn\u2019t entirely a black-and-white good-guys-against-bad-guys depiction. At the very beginning we see the Boston Massacre from the British sentry\u2019s point of view; it seemed like a set-up, and Samuel Adam\u2019s cagey remarks afterwards seem to concur. However, as we go along the unprovoked attacks on American cities draw us to the inevitable conclusion that Rebellion is the only answer, and the Colonies\u2019 weaknesses in both men and resources promise to make for a colorful sequel. ...more This is the second time I've read this book. It is really well written. It's a great reminder of how much our four fathers sacrificed for the freedoms we enjoy. It just takes me a long time to get through Jeff Shaara's books. I do plan on rereading the sequel. a very good story and mostly historically accirate. dragged a little in the middle which is why it took a long time to finish When I give a book a three-star rating, that doesn't necessarily mean that it is two stars away from being perfect. No, far from it. A three-star rating here simply means that I thought it was good, and in the case of \"Rise to Rebellion\", this might be somewhat of an understatement. I will not spoil any of the plot in this review, (although your knowledge of history might have already). However, if you are one of those people that want the story to unfold to you as you read the book, and make yo When I give a book a three-star rating, that doesn't necessarily mean that it is two stars away from being perfect. No, far from it. A three-star rating here simply means that I thought it was good, and in the case of \"Rise to Rebellion\", this might be somewhat of an understatement. I will not spoil any of the plot in this review, (although your knowledge of history might have already). However, if you are one of those people that want the story to unfold to you as you read the book, and make your own assessments, then I would recommend that you don't continue reading this review. **This novel is set during the Road to Revolution period of the American Revolution, and seeks to capture the major historical events and drama of the period in a fictional manner. Shaara remains true to the historical integrity of the setting as it concerns events, but, when undertaking the task to fictionalize something so well known without it turning into a narrative, he must take the liberty of putting his own words into characters' mouths, but in doing so attempting to agree with the real attitudes and dispositions held as it concerns real-life. The book never feels unnatural historically and none of the characters seem to go against their historical realities. Concerning progression and plot construction, it really isn't up to the author at what pace or how the story unfolds, as obviously he is basing his novel off of something that happened historically. I suppose the author could have expedited some of the years, (those years being between 1770 to 1776), or included some more story-line to make it more interesting. The colonial riots over the Stamp Act, for instance, could have been featured first hand, to provide some excitement, instead of the recurring grumbling of the familiar statesmen about them that occurs in the novel for about three of the story's years. In this respect, about the first half of the book draws on in a moderately boring fashion, and I really believe that the author could have made this an exciting part of the book, but alas, he didn't. Characterization was moderately poor, in my opinion. I understand that Shaara didn't invent these characters, and that they are real people that he modeled into his book, but they really didn't feel very real. That's not to say that he did a terrible job at this; characterization was decent at best, and mediocre at worst. The characters are animated in a fashion that perhaps assumes that the reader already knows the characters' personalities, (although in the introduction to the book it does give a brief prologue to each character, although these mainly cover their biography and life events, and not how they would behave). Shaara does in an annoying manner present the characters' thoughts as dialogue in the text and most of their opinions fall strikingly close together as one of two sides, the Patriots, and the Loyalists. I'm serious, the dialogue and thoughts of nearly all characters of one side of the aforementioned parties resemble each other so close you almost can't tell who's talking in a conversation sometimes. Sadly, it seems as if the author put little effort into enlivening the characters in a really exciting and enlivened period, disappointing. I draw my largest complaint in the author's use of writing style. Despite his effort to fictionalize the historical period, it reads much like a narrative, a concrete list of occurrences, intertwined with monotonous and dull dialogue. The organic fluidity of writing that immerses the reader is just simply not here. It is perfectly readable, mind you, but not easy to get lost in, if you know what I mean. All in all, this is a decent book. I have no complaint that would intend to discourage you from reading it. It's a little rough around the edges and unimpressive in some cases, but it is still a novel that I doubt that you would regret reading. I certainly believe that there are much better books out there, and if you're hard-pressed on time to read, I'd look into the better ones over this if I were you. While unprofessional and not astounding in my opinion, this was still a worthy novel. ...more gripping", "Title": "Rise to Rebellion"},
