{"Comments": "A Week in YA Kissing Books - Haiku Mini Review #1 Your \"Hugh Hefner\" Dad Doesn't make you a nympho Throw more rocks at boys I'm not entirely sure why I liked this one so much out of all the <---A>Elizabeth Scott</---A> books I've read, but I've narrowed it down to the following reasons: 1. Hannah - I thought she was a great protagonist and I enjoyed reading from her perspective. Her situation was unusual, but she was still relatable in her quest to be \"invisible\". I found her quite funny actually, particularly wh A Week in YA Kissing Books - Haiku Mini Review #1 Your \"Hugh Hefner\" Dad Doesn't make you a nympho Throw more rocks at boys I'm not entirely sure why I liked this one so much out of all the Elizabeth Scott books I've read, but I've narrowed it down to the following reasons: 1. Hannah - I thought she was a great protagonist and I enjoyed reading from her perspective. Her situation was unusual, but she was still relatable in her quest to be \"invisible\". I found her quite funny actually, particularly when she has a geode in hand and isn't afraid to peg it at someone. 2. Hannah's Mum - I was briefly worried at where this was going, as far as the way Hannah's mother was presented. But ultimately, I think she was an interesting character and Scott doesn't cast aspersion on her choices. She likes what she does and she's supportive of her daughter. I thought her view on love and relationships was explored well and felt realistic. 3. Josh and <---C>Finn</---C> - Sure,<---M> we all knew where this was going</---M>, right from the start. But I'd be lying if I said I couldn't relate to falling for a swaggering ass-hat's charms and finding out the hard way. 4. Call Centre Drudgery and Highjinks - The boredom.<---F> The ridiculous requests</---F>. The inter-office antics. It actually made me feel a little nostalgic. For about three seconds. ...more From the beginning you are hooked. Just read the jacket blurb. Hannah is the daughter of playboyisk father and her mother was one of what you'd call one of his \"girls\". Doesn't it make you wonder how a child like this would turn out? I was intrigued and totally dived in to see what Hannah had to offer. Hannah does all things possible to deflect any kind of attention, but she would like a certain someone's attention and that someone is Josh. Josh is sensitive, smart, caring and extremely cute or i From the beginning you are hooked. Just read the jacket blurb. Hannah is the daughter of playboyisk father and her mother was one of what you'd call one of his \"girls\". Doesn't it make you wonder how a child like this would turn out? I was intrigued and totally dived in to see what Hannah had to offer. Hannah does all things possible to deflect any kind of attention, but she would like a certain someone's attention and that someone is Josh. Josh is sensitive, smart, caring and extremely cute or is he? Hannah is a bit of a loner, because of all the wrong kind of notice she got when she first arrived in Slaterville. In a way she has to keep up the image of not having one. Ironic but true. Through all her conflicting feelings for her father, Josh, and Finn you still admire her. At times I felt like grabbing her blond hair (<---B>that she always complained about</---B>) and bash it against a wall repeatedly. I mean that in the best way possible. Basically to get her to see sense. Like I said earlier I still was fond of her despite that. Everything was practically done flawlessly. From her job at BurgerTown to the most intimate things like her stepfather Jose. I did knock off a star though because even though I got why her mom still ran her site and all (they are always strapped for money) but I really doubt she could enjoy doing that. It's just seems very much like being used. The dialogue is to die for. Seriously is there another adjective for hilarious? I laughed almost every other page. Finn is totally priceless . He's perfect for Hannah. He buys her food (always a plus and you'll see why I mention it), \"accidentally\" injures people on her behalf, and really gets who she is even if she doesn't want to believe he does. Favorite part is the rock scene. I had to read back at that part and laugh all over again. The gift in the end is incredibly sweet. Fellas you need to take a hint or two from The Finn. Yes I put a the in front of his name because he totally deserves it. The book ends realistically but oh so satisfying. ...more I guess I've never been a Scott fan, and this book is another sharp reminder as to why. It's similar to Bloom , but just even worse. It's a disaster, to be blunt. I liked the creativity. For a while, anyway. That's one thing I have to applaud Scott for: she always seems to have an out-of-the-ordinary story up her sleeve. But can she really pull it off? Not in this case. The Playboy parents were interesting at first but later got terribly melodramatic and boring. The father was so predictable afte I guess I've never been a Scott fan, and this book is another sharp reminder as to why. It's similar to Bloom , but just even worse. It's a disaster, to be blunt. I liked the creativity. For a while, anyway. That's one thing I have to applaud Scott for: she always seems to have an out-of-the-ordinary story up her sleeve. But can she really pull it off? Not in this case. The Playboy parents were interesting at first but later got terribly melodramatic and boring. The father was so predictable after a while and too unrealistic for my tastes. Everyone always tries to justify his actions, like the mother, for instance, and it gets so tiring. Because you can't make an excuse out of this seventy-two year old \"living in his own world\" and \"loves you in his own way\". It's just dumb. The mother was equally tiresome. From the start, she was oblivious and seemed too ditzy. (Not exactly parental role model, right?) In typical novel land, the mother gradually sees her mistake and becomes a real mother later on. Here, it happens in the last 5 pages of the novel. Not only is it rushed, but it's underdeveloped and lacked emotion. I was ready for tears and major confrontation, but I guess Scott is bad at confrontational scenes, so it lacked any depth. I hated the structure of the story. A novel shouldn't even be labeled as a \"structure\". You can say you liked the structured writing, the structure of a thesis essay, but never a creative work. But it's definitely present here. The events repeat itself, with few variations: 1) Protagonist goes to school, where she tries to be invisible. 2) She then goes to work, where she banters with Finn and fawns over how \"real\" Josh is (with a name as stereotypical as Josh, it's hard to fathom how \"real\" this character can get). 3) She then meets up with best friend Teagan and recounts all details related to Josh. 4) Hannah then goes home and faces drama about how short her mother's skirt is and how she once loved her father. 5) REPEAT steps 1-4 for the rest of the novel. This is beyond predictable. I feel like I'm looking at the water cycle, complete with the routinely events and lack of suspense. I know exactly what's going to happen; all I'm waiting for is the ending. Not only was the lame structure of the story, well, lame , I also despised how childish the characters and writing was. Most of it was in dialogue. I love witty banter styled dialogue, but this was not it. This was just the ramblings of teenagers who needed to dissect every little detail of attention the opposite sex displayed. Take the animal crackers and the life alarming dilemma (notice my sarcasm?) as to getting Josh coffee or not, for instance. Hannah has to ponder over the meaning of animal crackers so much that I wanted to strangle her and say, \"They're just crackers! Get over it, already!\" With coffee: \"Buy him the damn coffee!\" I'm not saying teenagers don't obsess, especially when it comes to the opposite sex, but Hannah is being so extreme about it that it renders her a complete fool. How am I supposed to resonate with such a protagonist? With my other reviews, I always mention the true Scott touch: repetition a la Scott. It's happened so often that I even had to name it. Sad but true. Hannah's life revolves around claiming she once loved Jackson and now hates him, complaining about her mother's passion for dressing low, fantasizing about Josh, and obsessing over Finn's mouth. These four key events play out like a cassette on repeat, never dying down. Once the drama with Jackson is done, it's on to Josh. After Josh, back to Jackson, then to Finn. You know the deal. I wouldn't even mind so much if it wasn't always just complaining. Heck, I lied. I WILL mind even then. Hannah's like Lauren (from Bloom ) in that sense, always whining and never actually being proactive until the fifth to last paragraph on the second to last page. Another similarity to Bloom : Hannah's love interest. Truly, I must nominate Finn for being the Universe's Most Awkward Love Interest in the world of fiction writing. Scott turns a normally likable and cute character into a lovesick, awkward geek. In any other book, I would have thought it was adorable that Finn would blush in Hannah's presence. But here, I see Finn as a socially inept fool. Which he isn't. He's just so awkward, and I feel like he was never meant to be portrayed like that. Finn is supposed to be sweet, patient, shy, but manly at the same time. Perhaps it's due to choppy writing, but the moment Finn blushes, I groan and wish he can disappear so I don't have to be reminded of what a ridiculous character he is. ...more From the beginning, I knew I was going to enjoy Hannah. She says words like \"craptastic\" and calls people \"asshats\" just like me. Plus Hannah's family life was so different, you couldn't help but get sucked into it. You have a mother who is struggling to stay in the spotlight, and a father who is basically a Hugh Hefner wannabee. No wonder the girl doesn't want anymore attention drawn her way! The friendship between her and Teagan is another thing that drew me in. I think why I enjoyed it so muc From the beginning, I knew I was going to enjoy Hannah. She says words like \"craptastic\" and calls people \"asshats\" just like me. Plus Hannah's family life was so different, you couldn't help but get sucked into it. You have a mother who is struggling to stay in the spotlight, and a father who is basically a Hugh Hefner wannabee. No wonder the girl doesn't want anymore attention drawn her way! The friendship between her and Teagan is another thing that drew me in. I think why I enjoyed it so much is because Hannah and Teagan sound a lot like my friend Shell and me when we have a conversation. Teagan even with her own insecurities is just the friend that Hannah needs. She shoots it to her straight, keeping her level headed about things. Now onto the two boys: Josh and Finn. When a character is stuck in a some what of a love triangle, there is always a guy you are rooting for. Usually I give them a few chapters before I pick which one I'm all about. Josh is appealing with his poetic side and all, but Finn was just...Finn! I loved him! His personality and stuttering were so adorable. He had me cracking up so much in this story, especially when he talks crap about Josh, like in this passage: \"Hannah, I just...I want you to know that if I pause a lot when I tell you how special you are, it's because I want you to think I'm very...very...deep.\" If anyone wants to send me a Finn for my birthday (April 29th), I will not object! Just make sure he's in his twenties, cause anything younger might be considered illegal in some states. I wouldn't even care if he chucked a chocolate bar at my head because he knows that's just what a girl needs sometimes. Okay, I'll stop before this becomes the I \u2665 Finn Show. After this book was done and over, I couldn't help but have a smile on my face. Elizabeth Scott delivered a very cute and funny love story. After reading her blog and interviewing her, I can really see her personality in this book. I'm cannot wait to see what she has in store for us next! ...more I think this is my favorite of Elizabeth Scott's romantic comedies. It was definitely the funniest, and wow, I loved the characters. I totally related to Hannah. Poor sexually frustrated Hannah. I mean, its so awkward having a Mom who is always half naked and a Hugh Hephner-esque father. But add in a crush on a hottie who might or might not be interested, an annoying co-worker she can't stop thinking about, and a deep seeded fear that, once she does get male attention, she'll wind up being some c I think this is my favorite of Elizabeth Scott's romantic comedies. It was definitely the funniest, and wow, I loved the characters. I totally related to Hannah. Poor sexually frustrated Hannah. I mean, its so awkward having a Mom who is always half naked and a Hugh Hephner-esque father. But add in a crush on a hottie who might or might not be interested, an annoying co-worker she can't stop thinking about, and a deep seeded fear that, once she does get male attention, she'll wind up being some crazy nympho or guy-juggler or something like her Dad. So funny. So painful. So adorable. And, oh boy, FINN!!!! I love Finn. YOu will too. ...more Hannah's parents take embarrassment to a whole new level - her aging playboy dad is the star of a reality show and her mom poses as Candy Madison, running a paid website in her negligee. Hannah's perfected the art of being invisible, which is a shame when it comes to the object of her longing, a coworker named Josh. How can Hannah retain her invisibility and still get Josh to ask her out? Is she doomed to be alone forever? This is a really sweet, romantic story and I think it might be my favorit Hannah's parents take embarrassment to a whole new level - her aging playboy dad is the star of a reality show and her mom poses as Candy Madison, running a paid website in her negligee. Hannah's perfected the art of being invisible, which is a shame when it comes to the object of her longing, a coworker named Josh. How can Hannah retain her invisibility and still get Josh to ask her out? Is she doomed to be alone forever? This is a really sweet, romantic story and I think it might be my favorite of Elizabeth Scott's (so far, anyway!). It's predictable but in a good way. It's funny and touching and a great feel-good read. Full review on my blog: http://abbylibrarian.blogspot.com/200... ...more All Hannah James wants is to be a normal teenager. But it\u2019s not easy when your father is Jackson James, a sleazy celebrity famous for partying at his mansion with beautiful women, or as he calls them, his \u201cspecial girls\u201d (scantily clad young women who parade around with little on or sometimes nothing at all). Her mom, Candy Madison, a former \u201cspecial girl\u201d, makes her living by doing live web chats in her lingerie. With eccentric parents like hers, Hannah only wants to fly under the radar at scho All Hannah James wants is to be a normal teenager. But it\u2019s not easy when your father is Jackson James, a sleazy celebrity famous for partying at his mansion with beautiful women, or as he calls them, his \u201cspecial girls\u201d (scantily clad young women who parade around with little on or sometimes nothing at all). Her mom, Candy Madison, a former \u201cspecial girl\u201d, makes her living by doing live web chats in her lingerie. With eccentric parents like hers, Hannah only wants to fly under the radar at school and avoid the inevitable whispers, insults and stares from the other teenagers. She tries to be invisible by dressing in baggy clothes and wearing no makeup. Money is tight, so she also works at a call center along with best guy friend Finn and the dreamy Josh. Josh is the only person Hannah does want to notice her. He\u2019s a deep \u201cthinker\u201d who writes poetry and reads Dostoyevsky, but every time she tries to talk to him, Finn annoyingly interrupts and ruins the moment. But the more Hannah does get to know Josh, the more she wonders wonder why she\u2019s always thinking about Finn. Guess sometimes what you want, really isn't what you need, right? Hannah was such a well constructed character. She was a strong, intelligent young woman with a sharp biting wit, and her voice was completely believable for someone her age. Elizabeth Scott really knows how to capture teenage voices and put them into believable dialogue. The following are two of my favorite excerpts from Hannah\u2019s narration. The humorous way she relays everything going on around her was so entertaining- \"Josh doesn't date guys like me. He dates tall, skinny, dark-haired girls who care about political causes and social injustice and wear short, gauzy dresses that I could never get away with wearing. Ever. Plus they always have cool names like Arugula or Micah.\" (Page 10 \"Josh tries to shrug, but ends up looking all broken and sad. I know this is terrible, but he looks amazing when he\u2019s miserable. He also looks like he needs someone to help put him back together, and I so want that someone to be me!\" (Page 101) From the start of this novel, it was completely obvious which guy was best for Hannah. But I was so drawn in by the passion and skill of Scott's writing that it held my interest and made for an entertaining ride. I enjoyed the love triangle between Hannah, Josh and Finn. As an outsider looking in, it was easy to recognize how phony Josh was, but I could also relate to why Hannah would be infatuated with him. In fact, I imagine I would\u2019ve easily felt the same way myself at seventeen! Finn had real heart and soul though, and he was always the one I rooted for. It was so satisfying to read how his relationship with Hannah evolved, and so sweet how he would blush so quickly around her, or get all tongue tied. He really \"got\" Hannah and I loved how quick he was to defend her or help her smile when she needed a friend. The unusual family dynamics of the book definitely made for a unique read, and I appreciated the way Scott dealt with the deeper issues of love and loss in a sincere way and didn\u2019t have to resort to clich\u00e9s. It was also impressive how well adjusted Hannah was for someone with such unorthodox parental figures. Her empty relationship with Jackson was downright sorrowful though. He treated her with a detached, flighty sort of affection. The worst part being that everything was captured on film and manipulated by his reality tv crew into whatever ratings spin he was looking for. After witnessing those antics, it was easy to understand how Hannah needed to have something consistent in her life to depend on. I could easily put myself in her shoes and imagine how hard it would be to take risks, especially growing up with the type of lifestyles her parents were leading. The character of her best friend Teagan added an interesting dynamic to the book as well. While dealing with her own insecurities, Teagan was not afraid to shoot from the heart, and tell Hannah what was best for her. Those types of friends are priceless, and when you\u2019re a teenager, you need a solid support system like that more than anything. BOTTOM LINE: This was my first Elizabeth Scott novel. After completing it, I understood why she is such a popular teen romance novelist and I can\u2019t wait to read more of her books. Something Maybe was an endearing, feel good read that will definitely evoke a happy sigh from readers at the end, and I\u2019d highly recommend it. ...more Hahahaha! Such a good book! and i thought that my life was a total fiasco! I'm conflicted with this story. On the one hand, I did truly enjoy it, I read it all in one go turning the pages quickly to find out what happens next. On the other hand...it just seemed...silly. Hannah was an irritating protagonist, but I didn't hate her for it. I don't know how to explain it, but although there were many times I just wanted to shake some sense into her, and into Elizabeth Scott for writing some of the driveling nonsense, it didn't hinder my enjoyment of the story. Not sure if I'm conflicted with this story. On the one hand, I did truly enjoy it, I read it all in one go turning the pages quickly to find out what happens next. On the other hand...it just seemed...silly. Hannah was an irritating protagonist, but I didn't hate her for it. I don't know how to explain it, but although there were many times I just wanted to shake some sense into her, and into Elizabeth Scott for writing some of the driveling nonsense, it didn't hinder my enjoyment of the story. Not sure if that made sense. Here's the thing: We spend 90% of the book with Hannah continuously repeating herself. Especially when it comes to Josh. Josh is perfect, kind, sweet, caring. If only everyone could be more like Josh. Oh, she's not good enough for Josh because he's just so sweet and wonderful. Look! Josh is reading a book, oh he's just so clever and smart and perfect. Josh is not taking a lunch break, he's just so perfect and hard working. Josh is talking about his endless amount of homework, he's so smart and responsible. And perfect. It got to a point where it was ruining my perception of Hannah. I don't know how many times she needs to repeat it in one short novel. We get it. We're not stupid. We understand that this is how she perceives Josh, you can stop ramming it into our heads now! And then there's Finn. Good old Finn. Funny, sarcastic, awkward Finn, who very obviously cares about Hannah, but Hannah doesn't see it for some reason. He goes around beating up bullies for her, and she sits there thinking HE'S a bully. Honestly, this girl is an idiot. Her friend, who isn't even THERE to see it happen, is more aware of what's going on than Hannah herself is. And yes, her dad is this Hugh Hefner wannabe who lives in a mansion with his playboy bunnies, and abandoned her when she was a child, and everything that happened there between them was very predictable and expected. In fact, this whole story was overly predictable. I loved Hannah's mom. I actually thought she was such a well-written character and her development was the most interesting and impressive out of all other characters. I went in expecting to hate her, but although she is very...different...and is quite outrageous in her behaviour, I found her amusing and endearing. I thought the way she really cares about her daughter was very evident, despite her actions, and her backstory with her ex-husband was touching and profound. I wish Scott could have given us more time with Finn and Hannah. I felt a little robbed to tell you the truth. The whole story was building up to this amazing moment with them, and she only gave us a couple of pages worth. Disappointing to say the least. All in all, I did, strangely enough, enjoy the story. But I also expected SO MUCH MORE out of it. And Scott: LESS REPETITIVENESS PLEASE!! ...more Reason why I liked this book would be that it reminded me of diaries because everything Hannah said seemed like it came from a diary. It\u2019s just that I kept a journal for a couple of years, while I was in highschool and it looked something like that. Pages and pages of boy talk and bitching about my parents. Hannah\u2019s father is basically like Hugh Hefner. He is a wealthy old fart who likes to have \u2018special girls\u2019 and only worries about himself. Hannah is a smart girl and she realises he will never Reason why I liked this book would be that it reminded me of diaries because everything Hannah said seemed like it came from a diary. It\u2019s just that I kept a journal for a couple of years, while I was in highschool and it looked something like that. Pages and pages of boy talk and bitching about my parents. Hannah\u2019s father is basically like Hugh Hefner. He is a wealthy old fart who likes to have \u2018special girls\u2019 and only worries about himself. Hannah is a smart girl and she realises he will never care for her the way she wanted, but he is still her dad, so it\u2019s not easy to forget he ever existed with his reality show on air all the time. Aside from her daddy issues, she has some problems with her mom since her stepdad died a couple of years ago. Hannah\u2019s mom is still not over him and she is trying to pay the bills with her live webcam business which involves her talking about her glory days with strangers while wearing sexy costumes. Hannah also has some boy trouble. She likes Josh who is as f-a-k-e-r, just like Finn said. Now Finn is a great guy. He sees Hanna for what she really is and sticks up for her at work or when people are bullying her at school. Who wouldn\u2019t want to have a guy like that by their side? He also irritates her but deep down she can feel there is something more going on with them and she is afraid of admitting it to herself because she doesn\u2019t want a love like her mom and stepdad had since you never know when will it end. All in all, <+++>Something, Maybe</+++> was a very enjoyable book. If you are looking for a sweet story to read during a rainy day, you found it. You can find this review and much more on YA Fanatic . ...more I'm going to let you into to a little secret I have, I love Elizabeth Scott's novels! They are like a guilty pleasure for me because they are light, funny, and well written novels, that I absolutely love. Whenever, I read one I'm usually in a bad mood, for some reason, but they instantly cheer me up within the first chapter. <+++>Something, Maybe</+++> was no different, of course. It was filled with well developed characters, cute boys, and father-daughter relationship problems. The plot was interesting, b I'm going to let you into to a little secret I have, I love Elizabeth Scott's novels! They are like a guilty pleasure for me because they are light, funny, and well written novels, that I absolutely love. Whenever, I read one I'm usually in a bad mood, for some reason, but they instantly cheer me up within the first chapter. Something, Maybe was no different, of course. It was filled with well developed characters, cute boys, and father-daughter relationship problems. The plot was interesting, but not very complex. I enjoyed the whole scenario where a former playboy's girlfriend gets pregnant and has a baby that the playboy claims is not his. Enter Hannah who is the daughter of these two. I felt sorry for Hannah because of her father's many problems that never let him get really close to her and evidently made her hate him for it. Also, which boy should I be with part of this novel was cute, but it got annoying after a while. Hannah was a three dimensional character that I could identify with a ton, for many reasons. The main reason was that she was extremely shy and worried that if she got herself out there too much, she would just get hurt. I used to feel that way, too, but after a while I finally cracked my shell like Hannah began to do in this story. Also, the other people, such as Finn and Tegan were great additions to the story and characters I ended up loving by the end. Overall, Something, Maybe is another classic Scott novel that will make you feel happy and sad at the same time. This novel will appeal to fans of Elizabeth Scott's previous novels and girls who are looking for a cute romance book that doesn't make you think too much. Grade: B+ ...more This was my second Elizabeth Scott novel, and it became very clear to me very quickly that Elizabeth Scott has a very, very wide range. The first book I read by her-- Love You Hate You Miss You --was a dark kind of book about a girl who writes letters to her best friend after she passes away in an accident. This book could not be more different. Something, Maybe is one of those lovely, sweet books that are great for anytime of year. I like to read these right at this time--spring turning into summe This was my second Elizabeth Scott novel, and it became very clear to me very quickly that Elizabeth Scott has a very, very wide range. The first book I read by her-- Love You Hate You Miss You --was a dark kind of book about a girl who writes letters to her best friend after she passes away in an accident. This book could not be more different. Something, Maybe is one of those lovely, sweet books that are great for anytime of year. I like to read these right at this time--spring turning into summer. While reading this book I had this huge smile on my face; because even though it's predictable, like many great contemporary reads, it's still genuinely sweet. The romance here is so fun to read about, even though it's a bit slow going. I really liked the characters and even though they were a bit cliche, they were all very well developed with flaws and backstories, like Teagan and Hannah herself. I really liked reading about Hannah's mom, because she also was definitely not some bimbo, but had a lot of depth to her, and they were some times when I felt even worse for her than I did for Hannah. The romance here is fun to read about, but it doesn't take over the whole book. Hannah has this whole character development thing going on with her dad that entertained me and sort of broke my heart at the end of the storyline. I really liked this book, and have more Elizabeth Scott in my tbr now. ...more While reading this, I got a major case of d\u00e9j\u00e1 vu. It felt like I had already read it before, but I'm still not sure. It's a simple book. Simple plot. Simple characters. Simple execution. But I still liked it. It wasn't supposed to be a complicated book, and it was the perfect book to waste a few hours on. Hannah, the main character, was a push-over and a little naive, but in her case that may have worked in her favor. She wanted to trust people so bad - including her father - because she didn't k While reading this, I got a major case of d\u00e9j\u00e1 vu. It felt like I had already read it before, but I'm still not sure. It's a simple book. Simple plot. Simple characters. Simple execution. But I still liked it. It wasn't supposed to be a complicated book, and it was the perfect book to waste a few hours on. Hannah, the main character, was a push-over and a little naive, but in her case that may have worked in her favor. She wanted to trust people so bad - including her father - because she didn't know any better, even though she SHOULD have known better. When love stories are explained as \"A has always wanted B. B is the love of her life. Then why can't she stop thinking about C?\" I always still root for B, because feelings like \"that\" just don't go away... but in this case, I think C is awesome. Annoying and awesome. B was a big freaking tool, and I'm surprised she managed to convinced herself for so long that he was anything worth having. I don't feel like writing a more detailed review than that, because this book doesn't really warrant it. If you want to read something simple and cute - this is your book. ...more Hannah is your average girl with no so average parents. Her father lives in a playboy type of mansion surrounded by playgirls (but they're called something else in this book). He hasn't talked to Hannah in a number of years and she would like to keep it that way. Her mother runs a site where she chats with men in her underwear and her husband died a bit recently. Not to mention that they live in a small town and everyone knows who her parents are. That's gotta be tough. She works at BurgerTown w Hannah is your average girl with no so average parents. Her father lives in a playboy type of mansion surrounded by playgirls (but they're called something else in this book). He hasn't talked to Hannah in a number of years and she would like to keep it that way. Her mother runs a site where she chats with men in her underwear and her husband died a bit recently. Not to mention that they live in a small town and everyone knows who her parents are. That's gotta be tough. She works at BurgerTown with the boy she's swooning over, Josh and her annoying friend Finn. I read a review somewhere where someone complained that this book was repetitive and boring. I agree, the book is repetitive but you have to remember, Hannah is in high school. She works and goes to school... there isn't much excitement when you're living that life. I kind of liked the repetitive, I was constantly looking forward for school to be over and for her to go to work since that's where most of the entertainment happens! The thing I like most about Elizabeth Scott's books is that you feel like you're the character. The way it's written makes you feel like Hannah's thoughts are your thoughts. You feel her anxiety with her, her excitement, her emotions. I wasn't too crazy about Josh every time he was in a scene, but I did love Finn's character. I loved how simple and observant he was and how he'd always butt in Hannah and Josh's conversations! I loved the relationship between Hannah and her mom, it seems that a lot of Elizabeth Scott books have that strong mother-daughter bond thing going. I also loved Hannah's sense of humor, if she were a real person, I'd make an effort to be her best friend! This was a nice, cute and relaxing read. Perfect for summer! ...more Reviewed by Sarah Bean the Green Bean Teen Queen for TeensReadToo.com Hannah's parents are embarrassing. Hannah's mom, Candy Madison, is a former \"celebrity\" who's known for a certain revealing pizza commercial, a short-lived TV show, and being the girlfriend of famous playboy and Hannah's father, Jackson James. She doesn't talk to her dad and her mom spends most of her time in online fan chats. Hannah wishes she was a normal girl with a normal life who could attract the attention of her co-worker Reviewed by Sarah Bean the Green Bean Teen Queen for TeensReadToo.com Hannah's parents are embarrassing. Hannah's mom, Candy Madison, is a former \"celebrity\" who's known for a certain revealing pizza commercial, a short-lived TV show, and being the girlfriend of famous playboy and Hannah's father, Jackson James. She doesn't talk to her dad and her mom spends most of her time in online fan chats. Hannah wishes she was a normal girl with a normal life who could attract the attention of her co-worker, Josh, who is obviously her soul mate (he just doesn't realize it). But the annoying Finn keeps getting in the way, and for some reason Hannah can't stop thinking about him. I don't know how Elizabeth Scott does it, but she continues to amaze me with every book. Can I just bottle some of her talent, please? SOMETHING, MAYBE is the perfect love story, but it's not just a romance. It's a story about loss, family, acceptance, and forgiveness. It goes beyond what a light romance typically does without feeling like a heavy issue book. How Elizabeth Scott pulls all this off is what makes reading this book so much fun. The most amazing thing to me is that I was totally drawn in to Hannah's world. When Hannah felt frustrated with her father, I felt frustrated. When she was upset, I was upset, and when she was happy I cheered with her. I really emotionally connected with the story and the characters, which made this one such a rewarding read. And Finn....sigh....I love Finn. If you haven't picked this one up yet, put it to the top of your reading pile now! SOMETHING, MAYBE is my new must-have book for Summer Reading. ...more Something, Maybe is simply great. I really like Hannah and her courage. The book is mostly focused on the romance (or lack-there-of in the beginning). It\u2019s funny and heartfelt in a way that I hadn't expected. First about the romance: Hannah starts out being low-key and all gaga over Josh. She wants to be more like Josh or like one of his typical girlfriends. Hannah never truly conforms to anyone so no need to worry there. You know Finn has a crush on her and in the book he does all these great th Something, Maybe is simply great. I really like Hannah and her courage. The book is mostly focused on the romance (or lack-there-of in the beginning). It\u2019s funny and heartfelt in a way that I hadn't expected. First about the romance: Hannah starts out being low-key and all gaga over Josh. She wants to be more like Josh or like one of his typical girlfriends. Hannah never truly conforms to anyone so no need to worry there. You know Finn has a crush on her and in the book he does all these great things for her. Somehow she doesn't realize this, I honestly don't know how but it's true. Josh seems to show interest in her as the book goes on but you don't know Josh's intentions clearly until near the end. Her parents are another story. She doesn't want to be either of her parents and succeeds in doing so. I could understand her despite being very different from her. When she was with her dad, I was right along with her feeling angry, happy, or sad. I think Jose (her late step-dad) was perfect even though you never get to meet him. Her mom isn't very mom-like but I could still see her as a grownup -sometimes. Hannah is smart at handling dim-wits and can take a few punches so she is overall a terrific protagonist. The book was pretty predictable but that never really bothers me. The only thing was that I think is it focused a lot on the romance. Other than that is was great. Not to mention all the excellent dialogue. ...more My Thoughts: So its been a while where I really get sucked into a book. Where I lay in bed and don't want to turn off the light because I'm still reading and I want to know what happens next. Where the thought of putting the book aside makes me sad. Until now.. Well, this book totally amazed me! This is now one of my favorite new books. When I first saw this book I had no clue what it was about. With the title Something, Maybe it could be about anything. I loved the storyline. The characters wer My Thoughts: So its been a while where I really get sucked into a book. Where I lay in bed and don't want to turn off the light because I'm still reading and I want to know what happens next. Where the thought of putting the book aside makes me sad. Until now.. Well, this book totally amazed me! This is now one of my favorite new books. When I first saw this book I had no clue what it was about. With the title Something, Maybe it could be about anything. I loved the storyline. The characters were awesome, every single one of them. They all had an appeal to them. Hannah is a very likable character. You feel like you know what she's been through and you can relate to her so easily. My favorite was Finn!!! I adored him! I was in love with him from the very beginning. I did not like Josh at all, he rubbed me the wrong way. This book hooks you from the very beginning, its that good. Overall: GREAT GREAT book! One of my new favorites! Recommend it to everyone!!!! Cover: Totally fits the book! I love her hat and her bracelets. Its the right color of blue! A little low key but fits wonderfully. (Reviewed by Princess Bookie) ...more Hannah has tried to stay under the radar because her parents do exactly the opposite. Her father is basically Mr. Playboy, a 72-year-old man who owns a castle filled with \"my girls\" and stars in a raunchy reality TV show of the activities there. He hasn't talked to her in five years. Her mother, while more reliable, is also infamous(as a Hot C Actress, anyway). Known best for her role in the Superbowl pizza commercial in which she wore nothing but the pizza box, and secondly for a badly-rated S Hannah has tried to stay under the radar because her parents do exactly the opposite. Her father is basically Mr. Playboy, a 72-year-old man who owns a castle filled with \"my girls\" and stars in a raunchy reality TV show of the activities there. He hasn't talked to her in five years. Her mother, while more reliable, is also infamous(as a Hot C Actress, anyway). Known best for her role in the Superbowl pizza commercial in which she wore nothing but the pizza box, and secondly for a badly-rated Southern comedy in which her role was a sort of Daisy Duke, she's caused Hannah to wear the most unsexy clothes known to mankind. Because of her efforts to stay unnoticed, she's virtually an unknown at Slaterville High- except to Josh, a coffee-activist, and Finn, a sarcastic jerk, who work with her at a burger joint. If I had to describe this book in one word, it would be hopeful. It's rare that a book both warms you and portrays life's crappiness accurately, but this one does. A warming story that Sarah Dessen calls \"the best love story I've read in ages.\" ...more Hannah is used to being invisible. She likes it that way. When the entire world has seen your mom mostly naked, and your dad has his own reality show that features him and his \"special girls\", you get a little sick of people looking at you. But sometimes, Hannah wants to be noticed. She would love, for example, to get noticed by Josh, her brainy, passionate coworker who happens to be her soulmate. Unfortunately, the only person who seems to notice her is Finn, her other coworker--irritating, anno Hannah is used to being invisible. She likes it that way. When the entire world has seen your mom mostly naked, and your dad has his own reality show that features him and his \"special girls\", you get a little sick of people looking at you. But sometimes, Hannah wants to be noticed. She would love, for example, to get noticed by Josh, her brainy, passionate coworker who happens to be her soulmate. Unfortunately, the only person who seems to notice her is Finn, her other coworker--irritating, annoying Finn, who seems to be the only one who really sees her. Elizabeth Scott has a real gift for capturing a teen voice and thought process. Even as you, the reader, can see that Josh is a jerk, you can totally see why Hannah is in love with him, and you can totally see why you would have been in love with him when you were seventeen too. That said, this is not Scott's strongest book. The voice is great, and it's wonderful to be back inside one of Scott's teen characters, but the plot is a little weak, compared to some of Scott's other books. ...more I was a little nervous trying another book by Elizabeth Scott. After reading Living Dead Girl, I was somewhat skeptical to say the least. Well Something, Maybe turned out to be brain balm after reading her other novel. This stand-alone story was great, funny, enjoyable and quick to read. I loved the characters, storyline and dialog. I found myself laughing out loud and shaking my head at Hannah's mental dialog. Hannah and Finn were great together and very charming. Several of the secondary chara I was a little nervous trying another book by Elizabeth Scott. After reading Living Dead Girl, I was somewhat skeptical to say the least. Well Something, Maybe turned out to be brain balm after reading her other novel. This stand-alone story was great, funny, enjoyable and quick to read. I loved the characters, storyline and dialog. I found myself laughing out loud and shaking my head at Hannah's mental dialog. Hannah and Finn were great together and very charming. Several of the secondary characters in this novel were also fun to read about. I most definitely enjoyed this light, ya, love story. I don't have any skepticism reading other books by Elizabeth Scott moving forward. ...more I hadn't read a book in one sitting in a long time... But I'm also going to bed wayyyyy too late and I did literally no homework. Oh, well. It was worth it. Something, Maybe was incredibly cute and sweet and adorable and all those nice adjectives that I love to use. It's a light, warm and happy feeling read. It's interesting and nice, but there's nothing groundbreaking. Love triangles populate almost every romance novel. And well, parents are always problems. Although, yeah, I have to admit, Hannah does have embarrassing parents. Mostly her father. Her mother isn't really so bad, she does what she does (which is wearing very minimal clothing for a l Something, Maybe was incredibly cute and sweet and adorable and all those nice adjectives that I love to use. It's a light, warm and happy feeling read. It's interesting and nice, but there's nothing groundbreaking. Love triangles populate almost every romance novel. And well, parents are always problems. Although, yeah, I have to admit, Hannah does have embarrassing parents. Mostly her father. Her mother isn't really so bad, she does what she does (which is wearing very minimal clothing for a legion of drooling men on the internet), but she's good and kind. Her father, on the other hand, is 72 years old and such a jerk. I'm not too sure jerk is the right word, but her father is definitely not... suited to be father I guess. He should be a grandfather at his age. I just find it extremely icky to think of Hannah's mom at age 21 and Jackson, her dad, in his 50s, together. Just... eew. I found that probably, I'd describe most scenes in Something, Maybe as both corny and sweet. It just depends on if the scene's more corny than sweet, or vice-versa. Hannah's attempted heart to hearts with her dad Jackson are more corny than sweet, but I'm going to say that most interactions between Hannah and Finn are sweet rather than corny. Let's see... the characters now. Hannah, I wasn't too fond of. I found her wishywashy with her crush on Josh. And the fact that she thought she was soulmates with him was just so... stupid. I could say naive but really, I think stupid fits Hannah more. I do think she was brave and strong at times, but most, she just kind of annoyed me. And she was so oblivious to Finn, it hurt. It truly did. I sometimes wanted to shake her to make Hannah open her eyes somehow to Finn. Or at least accept some of her feelings. On the topic of Finn... drroool. XD I adore Finn. He's hands down my favourite character in this novel. He's very... boy, with some disgusting eating habits, but he's not a jerk, even though he tends to be surrounded by them (friends, in other words). He blushes constantly, and rambles. A lot. If you just read quickly through this book, it's like, oh, yay, romance. Dysfunctional family, uh huh. Seen this, read this, whatever. But get closer, and it really is good. It's layered, and the character's aren't always cardboard cutout stereotypes. ...more We are all guilty of having embarrassing parents, or at least have our share of embarrassing moments, but Hannah has each and everyone of us topped. Her dad is Jackson James, founder of a playboy-esque website and show. Her mom, well, she is famous for the Superbowl commercial where the only thing covering her was a pizza box. After a lifetime of receiving the wrong type of attention, Hannah finds that she much prefers walking invisibly through life. The only thing wrong with being invisible thou We are all guilty of having embarrassing parents, or at least have our share of embarrassing moments, but Hannah has each and everyone of us topped. Her dad is Jackson James, founder of a playboy-esque website and show. Her mom, well, she is famous for the Superbowl commercial where the only thing covering her was a pizza box. After a lifetime of receiving the wrong type of attention, Hannah finds that she much prefers walking invisibly through life. The only thing wrong with being invisible though is that the hottest guy Josh, who Hannah believes is her soul mate can\u2019t see her. Then of course there is Finn, the guy in the neighboring cubby at Hannah\u2019s job. He\u2019s funny, cute, and Hannah just can\u2019t seem to stop thinking about him, but then she can\u2019t just forget about Josh either. Now Hannah must decide what she really wants and what she really needs. Oh Elizabeth Scott how I love you! I really enjoyed SOMETHING, MAYBE and will never ever think that my parents are that embarrassing again. Scott created very real characters that were very relatable. While we all might not have a porn star for a mom, many know what it feels like not to fit in for various reasons. Hannah was also a very witty character who made you want to cheer for her in all of her triumphs and console her in her failures. Finn was absolutely adorable, as in I want him to sit beside me at work. He also added quite a bit of humor to the book, which had me in fits of laughter. The plot of the book was very original and quite real. With the mom and dad combination and then the grief that Hannah had with the loss of her step dad, the whole thing just made me laugh and sympathize. I truly felt like I was transported into Hannah\u2019s life and didn\u2019t come back to my own until the very last word of her tale. I absolutely cannot wait for more from Elizabeth Scott, who is definitely a dynamite author in the YA field. I highly recommend this book and urge you all to pick it up and have some laughs. -xoxo ...more Hannah is invisible, and she likes it that way. She made herself like that on purpose because everybody knows, it seems, who her parents are. Ordinarily, this might not be such a bad thing, but because her father is Jackson James, an older used-to-be-celebrity famous for partying with his scantily clad and much younger girlfriends, and her mother is Candy Madison, a has-been known for being clothed in naught but a pizza box in a commercial, attention is not something Hannah wants or needs. All H Hannah is invisible, and she likes it that way. She made herself like that on purpose because everybody knows, it seems, who her parents are. Ordinarily, this might not be such a bad thing, but because her father is Jackson James, an older used-to-be-celebrity famous for partying with his scantily clad and much younger girlfriends, and her mother is Candy Madison, a has-been known for being clothed in naught but a pizza box in a commercial, attention is not something Hannah wants or needs. All Hannah wants to do is get her super cute crush Josh to notice her, but that\u2019s much easier said than done. And with family drama and the attention of annoying Finn, it\u2019s going to take some time for Hannah to realie who really cares about her. Scott is by far one of my favorite teen romance authors because of the skill and passion shown by her writing, and Something, Maybe is definitely up to par. I love how Scott places her protagonists in such unique situations that make her stories so moving, emotional, and memorable. Hannah is a realistically drawn character, but even if I can\u2019t empathize with her life story as I\u2019m sure most readers won\u2019t be able to, I can definitely related to her fear of taking risks and desire for something real she can count on. I was rooting the whole way for Hannah to sort out her life and find some happiness. I did feel that Hannah\u2019s friendship with Teagan was a little haphazardly thrown in there, but everything else is almost perfectly placed. Both predictable and surprising, Something, Maybe is a sweet romance that will evoke emotional response as well as happy sighs from all readers. Fans of Scott\u2019s writing, especially in Bloom and Stealing Heaven, will not want to miss her latest in Something, Maybe. Readers who enjoyed When It Happens by Susane Colasanti or anything by Sarah Dessen will also like this romantic novel. reposted from http://thebookmuncher.blogspot.com ...more Hannah is the 17-year-old daughter of the infamous Candy Madison (has her own website where she talks to fans in her underwear) and Jackson James (think older celebrity playboy similar to Hugh Heffner), and she\u2019s had to live with the embarrassment for most of her life. It\u2019s been 5 years since the last time Jackson spoke to her, and Hannah has finally settled into a tolerable existence \u2013 going to high school (where she has exactly 1 almost-maybe friend), and working for the BurgerTown call center Hannah is the 17-year-old daughter of the infamous Candy Madison (has her own website where she talks to fans in her underwear) and Jackson James (think older celebrity playboy similar to Hugh Heffner), and she\u2019s had to live with the embarrassment for most of her life. It\u2019s been 5 years since the last time Jackson spoke to her, and Hannah has finally settled into a tolerable existence \u2013 going to high school (where she has exactly 1 almost-maybe friend), and working for the BurgerTown call center (she takes drive-thru orders). She thinks she\u2019s in love with Josh \u2013 fellow classmate and BurgerTown employee \u2013 because he\u2019s gorgeous and seems really deep, intelligent, and caring (jerk alert - he\u2019s not any of those things, except gorgeous). But, there\u2019s also Finn - Finn who talks too much, but who really knows Hannah inside and out. Hannah starts to think that maybe she\u2019s just like her father \u2013 some kind of nymphomaniac who can\u2019t be trusted to control her urges \u2013 and that\u2019s when Jackson gets back in touch with her. He sweet talks Hannah into visiting him in the city, and turns it into a media fest just so he can get his ratings up, and Hannah has to live with the fallout (again) of his actions. That\u2019s when she discovers who her friends, and what her true feelings are. Elizabeth Scott can really craft likable, unique characters \u2013 Hannah, Teagan, Candy, and Finn are all wonderfully individual. While this was a little predictable (of course Hannah\u2019s going to discover that Josh is a tool and that Finn is Quality, and naturally Jackson ends up betraying her), it was still fun to read. The quirky, honest characters set against the amusing BurgerTown backdrop make Hannah\u2019s story endearing, heart-breaking, and enjoyable. Fans of the light teenage romance should enjoy this even though it lacks vampires. ...more Previous to this I had only read Bloom by Elizabeth Scott. I thought that one was ok where as this was fantastic! Right off the bat the book was funny and engaging, it felt like my best friend wrote it, someone with my same sense of humor. I found myself giggling and laughing and possibly even snorting once or twice when reading this book. It was a lot of fun but also had a more serious and emotional side. The humor was found in all sorts of places from the fact that Hannah works at a call center Previous to this I had only read Bloom by Elizabeth Scott. I thought that one was ok where as this was fantastic! Right off the bat the book was funny and engaging, it felt like my best friend wrote it, someone with my same sense of humor. I found myself giggling and laughing and possibly even snorting once or twice when reading this book. It was a lot of fun but also had a more serious and emotional side. The humor was found in all sorts of places from the fact that Hannah works at a call center for BurgerTown (what?!?!?!) with two boys from her high school, one who she has a massive crush on and the other one that annoys the heck out of her. And that basically she has someone not unlike Hugh Hefner for a father. Just a great set-up for a book. While her family situation is humorous (old playboy dad with lots of girlfriends and a mother that used to be one of them and now has her own internet show) it's also the source for the more serious emotional stuff in the book. Hannah hasn't seen her father in about 5 years and gets made fun of at school because of her family. There is a lot of stuff going on here. My favorite part, of course, was the love triangle that forms between Hannah and her co-workers Josh and Finn. Pretty much everyone but Hannah knows which one she should go for. It almost gets to the point where she seems kind of dense but finally comes to her senses! I thought this was a funny, engaging and sweet book and it's just proven to me more why I should read the rest of Elizabeth Scott's books! ...more I read the first chapter of this as a teaser at the end of \"Perfect You,\" when it was still titled \"Live, Nude, Mom!\" and I have to admit that's a great title that tells a lot more about this book than \"Something, Maybe,\" which I'm still not exactly sure how that ties in? Hannah's mom was a live-in \"girl next door,\" to Jackson James, who seems to be pretty much a Hugh Hefner/Joe Francis stand-in. Her pregnancy (and Hannah) weren't part of the plan, and Jackson denies paternity and pretty much is I read the first chapter of this as a teaser at the end of \"Perfect You,\" when it was still titled \"Live, Nude, Mom!\" and I have to admit that's a great title that tells a lot more about this book than \"Something, Maybe,\" which I'm still not exactly sure how that ties in? Hannah's mom was a live-in \"girl next door,\" to Jackson James, who seems to be pretty much a Hugh Hefner/Joe Francis stand-in. Her pregnancy (and Hannah) weren't part of the plan, and Jackson denies paternity and pretty much is a shit dad from there on out (long story short, there). Hannah's mom now makes her living via her web site, where she basically sits around in her underwear chatting with her \"fans.\" Putting aside whether that's really a viable business model, you can see how it would be embarassing when you're a high school girl. Hannah's relationship with Jackson, her Mom's various issues (yes, there's a dead step dad) and their general low income lifestyle (too proud for child support?) combine to give Hannah a whopping case of self esteem issues, and fears and frailties when it comes to relating to the opposite sex. This was a sweet book, and Hannah's gradual, reluctant but brave realization that she's going to have to start steering makes for a warm story of growth and acceptance. Elizabeth Scott is good at this, and this is a lot like Perfect You. You really feel your heart ache for these characters, and the ending leaves you feeling like it's ok to let them go now, they will probably make it without you worrying about them. ...more This review is also posted on my blog, In The Good Books . Something, Maybe was engaging from the very first line, \"Everyone's seen my mother naked.\" Unconventional but interesting, it captured my attention. Elizabeth Scott's style is so light and easy to read. Her books are quick and can be read in just a few hours; their fluffy and funny tone picking you up from a bad mood, or just putting you in a better one. The premise was definitely unique to anything I've read before. Hannah's dad was basical This review is also posted on my blog, In The Good Books . Something, Maybe was engaging from the very first line, \"Everyone's seen my mother naked.\" Unconventional but interesting, it captured my attention. Elizabeth Scott's style is so light and easy to read. Her books are quick and can be read in just a few hours; their fluffy and funny tone picking you up from a bad mood, or just putting you in a better one. The premise was definitely unique to anything I've read before. Hannah's dad was basically Hugh Heffner, and her mother was an ex-girlfriend of his. The dynamic felt realistic, despite her parent's outlandish situation. Hannah's character was easy to identify with. Everyone can relate to being embarrassed by their parents, but Hannah's parents are on a whole other level. I felt sympathetic for her while reading, cringing at every awkward moment. The romance in Something, Maybe was incredibly sweet. The love interest (I feel like telling you who the love interest really is spoils it somewhat) was so adorable, funny, and swoon-worthy. It felt like there'd be an imminent love triangle, and I was so, so happy to be wrong. The plot was entertaining, sometimes light and sometimes more serious. Though, I felt like I could guess the result of every sub-plot about halfway into it. I give Something, Maybe a 4 out of 5. ...more A short, fun read in the vein of Sarah Dessen's romance novels. The premise was interesting and original and the characters were easy to get attached to. Hannah carries a legacy she really wishes she didn't; her father is a Playboy-esque star with a castle full of young women, and her mother is one of his ex-girls, a model who's done some sordid advertisements. Hannah has had to fly under the radar just to avoid the whispers and stares of people all around her. Hannah's story is basically a simp A short, fun read in the vein of Sarah Dessen's romance novels. The premise was interesting and original and the characters were easy to get attached to. Hannah carries a legacy she really wishes she didn't; her father is a Playboy-esque star with a castle full of young women, and her mother is one of his ex-girls, a model who's done some sordid advertisements. Hannah has had to fly under the radar just to avoid the whispers and stares of people all around her. Hannah's story is basically a simple one; how to maybe reconnect with her father, understand her mother, and deal with her two male coworkers, Josh and Finn, at the fast food restaraunt she takes orders at. Josh is the perfect guy, sensitive and gorgeous, while Finn talks nonstop and drives Hannah crazy with his irrepressible behavior. Hannah manages to navigate all these obstacles and more in a fairly short time, but it's done very well. The narrative voice is again a little reminscent of Dessen, fun, sarcastic, doubtful, and real. The dialogue is especially fun; the scenes at Hannah's work are probably the best. I loved her changing feelings, and I loved Finn and his goofiness. Just a feel-good romance with comedy and some serious stuff thrown in, with enough creativity to make it feel fresh and great. ...more I had been in a reading slump before I started to 48 Hour Book Challenge so even though I was looking forward to reading, I wasn't sure if I'd find books I'd want to read straight through. Lucky for me Something, Maybe was near the top of my pile, because without it (and Melissa Walker's wonderful Lovestruck Summer), I don't think I could have made it. I don't know how Elizabeth Scott does it, but she continues to amaze me with every book. Can I just bottle some of her talent please? Something, I had been in a reading slump before I started to 48 Hour Book Challenge so even though I was looking forward to reading, I wasn't sure if I'd find books I'd want to read straight through. Lucky for me Something, Maybe was near the top of my pile, because without it (and Melissa Walker's wonderful Lovestruck Summer), I don't think I could have made it. I don't know how Elizabeth Scott does it, but she continues to amaze me with every book. Can I just bottle some of her talent please? Something, Maybe is the perfect love story, but it's not just a romance. It's a story about loss, family, acceptance and forgiveness. It goes beyond what a light romance typically does without feeling like a heavy issue book. How Elizabeth Scott pulls all this off is what makes reading this book so much fun. The most amazing thing to me that Elizabeth Scott pulls off in this book is that I was totally drawn in to Hannah's world. When Hannah feels frustrated with her father, I felt frustrated. When she was upset, I was upset and when she was happy I cheered with her. I really emotionally connected with the story and the characters, which made this one such a rewarding read. And Finn....sigh....I love Finn. If you haven't picked this one up yet, put it to the top of your reading pile now! Something, Maybe is my new must have book for Summer Reading. ...more", "Title": "Something, Maybe"},
