{"Comments": "AVI2.0 Review: With warnings,<---M> gender changes</---M>, and a post script! I just dawned on me that the stupid plot revealing subtitle is there because <---A>Avi</---A> means for this book to be the start of a series, and a quick check shows that there is a sequel. Avi has a unique skill at flattening characters. Everyone pretty much sounds the same as every other character. S h He also has a knack of making her his characters unlikable. Not in the I hate them sort of way, but in the why do I give a ( If you are under the AVI2.0 Review: With warnings, gender changes, and a post script! I just dawned on me that the stupid plot revealing subtitle is there because Avi means for this book to be the start of a series, and a quick check shows that there is a sequel. Avi has a unique skill at flattening characters. Everyone pretty much sounds the same as every other character. S h He also has a knack of making her his characters unlikable. Not in the I hate them sort of way, but in the why do I give a ( If you are under the age of 17 please look away for one word ) fuck what happens to them way. If I had read this book as a child it would have bored me to death.<---F> I would have hated this book</---F>. As an adult I could read it in a couple of hours and pass over the dryness with the greatest of ease. There is nothing exciting really in this book. The action is telegraphed so poorly before it happens that there really aren't any surprises. I'm starting to think now that Avi meant for Crispin to be her his Harry Potter. Orphan kid, mysterious past, befriended by some big oaf of a man, those kind of silly subtleties. I don't have too many (any?) facts to base this on (just like I had no facts to base the idea that Avi was a woman on, but that doesn't stop me from saying things), but there is the feeling that this is Harry Potter with all of the fun vacuum sucked out of it. Why Avi is critically acclaimed is beyond me. This is the second of her his countless books I have read, and each of them has been blah. The first one I could see appealing to kids, but it was too moronic for me to stomach; and this one I don't see who the audience is, except maybe Middle School teachers always on the lookout for new instruments to torture their students with. The wealth of little historical day to day facts in the book will be fodder for many a ( If you are under the age of 17 please look away for one word ) crappy teacher to bore the ( If you are under the age of 17 please look away for one word ) shit out of students for a long time to come. Post Script, for Children. I, the author of the review you just read, am sorry if I have been the first to scar your young minds with foul language. It is wrong to curse, and it shows your ignorance, that is until you are older and then it shows your immaturity, but maybe not your ignorance. This is a distinction you will need to face yourselves when you get older. But if you have read this review, let me offer you some words of encouragement that I wish had been offered to me: if your teacher loves this book and you do not love it, don't think there is anything wrong with you. Also do not think that it means you are just not the type to like books, or that there are no books out there for you. This is not a good book. Your teacher by liking this book, is possibly the type of person who deep down knows very little about books. Also there is possibly some unspeakable trauma in his or her past has driven him or her to be a teacher and is attempting to take all the goodness out of books and turn them into something that they feel deserve to be hated and despised. Sadly, teachers are good at ruining things, doubly sadly (don't ever use that phrase yourself, it will make you look stupid, be smarter than me) there are very few good teachers out there. I hope that if you are reading this you have one of the awesome teachers. If you don't have one of them, realize that your teacher is a very disturbed individual, and something happened that either killed his or her desire to live and/or make everyone else in the world see the world as joylessly as they do. Try not to hate them, but feel pity for them. They need love. Don't try to hug them though, that could end badly. Just feel pity and offer them love at a distance. ...more i didnt hate it as much as greg did, but i know what he means about it being a little flat. i probably would have enjoyed this as maybe an 8 year old. is that too old - i dont remember what i was doing at 8, except i had unfortunate teeth. im not going to run right out and get the sequel to this or anything, but its a perfectly serviceable medieval tale of secret origins and poverty and swords. My sixth grade son made me read \"Crispin: <+++>The Cross of Lead</+++>\". He's a really advanced reader, but it's hard to get him involved in books. He'd rather play World of Warcraft or play his guitar. He couldn't put this book down and insisted that I read it. I was surprised at the content of the book. Crispin is the bastard son of an outcast peasant woman who never shows him any affection. He doesn't even know his name until after his mother dies. The revelation of his name leads to the murder of the vi My sixth grade son made me read \"Crispin: <+++>The Cross of Lead</+++>\". He's a really advanced reader, but it's hard to get him involved in books. He'd rather play World of Warcraft or play his guitar. He couldn't put this book down and insisted that I read it. I was surprised at the content of the book. Crispin is the bastard son of an outcast peasant woman who never shows him any affection. He doesn't even know his name until after his mother dies. The revelation of his name leads to the murder of the village priest before he learns who his father is. Fortunately, the priest gives Crispin his mother's lead cross before he is murdered. From that point, Crispin is on the run. The lord of the manor frames him for a crime and puts a price on his head. He encounters a man who takes him under his wing and teaches him about life and the world. I thought this was an excellent book. It won the Newbury award. I would caution more protective parents that this book does have a lot of violence and may expose children to ideas you may not want them exposed to like adultery and atheism. I'm glad my son read it, but I did have to do some explaining. ...more **6.5/10** I know this is an award-winning book. Avi's historical fiction is exceptional -- even the metaphor and imagery in the book employ phrases consistent with the times. I feel when I read his historical fiction like I can connect all the historical dots. However, I got the feeling that some of Crispin's actions were not consistent with his character, and that Avi had him do them just to advance the plot. And that annoys me. For example, Crispin is painted as an ignorant kid who learns about his plac I know this is an award-winning book. Avi's historical fiction is exceptional -- even the metaphor and imagery in the book employ phrases consistent with the times. I feel when I read his historical fiction like I can connect all the historical dots. However, I got the feeling that some of Crispin's actions were not consistent with his character, and that Avi had him do them just to advance the plot. And that annoys me. For example, Crispin is painted as an ignorant kid who learns about his place in English society as he joins up with a large, red-bearded jester named Bear. At first he is afraid of this man, but gradually comes to trust and appreciate him. When they get to the big city of Great Wexly, Bear orders him to stay in their room to be safe while he does business elsewhere. Everything I have learned about Crispin makes me believe he would follow Bear's orders. However, Crispin gets bored and leaves, and crises inevitably ensue. Avi should have either given Crispin a better reason to leave the room, or else he should have given me more warning that Crispin has a curious side that would maybe get him into trouble. Those jarring moments happened frequently enough that I got annoyed and couldn't give this book more than 3 stars. ...more Winner of the 2003 Newbery, this historical novel is set in England, 1377. Crispin, an orphan peasant, is told by his village priest that there is a secret regarding his birth. But after stumbling upon the cruel village steward making a secret plan in the woods, Crispin is declared a \u201cwolf\u2019s head\u201d \u2013 a non-person whom anyone may kill for a reward \u2013 and he is forced to flee. He comes upon Bear, a jester who secretly works to bring a worker\u2019s revolution to England, and together they travel to the \u201c Winner of the 2003 Newbery, this historical novel is set in England, 1377. Crispin, an orphan peasant, is told by his village priest that there is a secret regarding his birth. But after stumbling upon the cruel village steward making a secret plan in the woods, Crispin is declared a \u201cwolf\u2019s head\u201d \u2013 a non-person whom anyone may kill for a reward \u2013 and he is forced to flee. He comes upon Bear, a jester who secretly works to bring a worker\u2019s revolution to England, and together they travel to the \u201cbig city\u201d of Wexly, where to Crispin\u2019s horror the steward has followed them, and both their lives are in danger. This is an interesting choice for the Newbery \u2013 Avi strives hard to recreate the historical milieu in which Crispin lives, so first and foremost, the prose is absolutely drenched in medieval Christian thought. Although Bear is an apostate, Crispin and many other characters are literally \u201cGod-fearing,\u201d expecting swift and horrible punishments for their every transgression and believing utterly that a broken vow to Jesus (no matter how profane or involuntary) will result in immediate damnation. Then, just so everyone has something to be offended about, Avi has Crispin, if not explicitly reject this mindset, at least question it; he stops praying and pledges to make his own decisions, and later uses the binding power of an unwilling vow as a tool for his own ends. Finally, there\u2019s the vocabulary: in addition to words like \u201ctrepidation\u201d and \u201cdisconsolate,\u201d Avi doesn\u2019t shy away from the archaic terms: mazer, patten, kirtle, withal. It\u2019s a terrific historical adventure story, I would think suitable for older teens and up; its value is not so much in the plot (which is fairly straightforward, hardly original, and rather far-fetched at the end) as it is in recreating the highly religious, hierarchical, nasty, sometimes brutish and short lives of the medieval European. ...more \u201c<---C>Asta</---C>\u2019s Son,\u201d as he is called, is left to his own devices when his mother dies in 1377 in the tiny, poor English village of Stromford. He doesn\u2019t have a family and knows nothing of his father. All his mother leaves him is a cross of lead that he carries with him as he flees his village when declared a \u201cwolf\u2019s head\u201d\u2014a person who can be killed on sight\u2014for allegedly committing a crime. His priest, the one person he trusts, is murdered after trying to help and telling Asta\u2019s Son his real name (whic \u201cAsta\u2019s Son,\u201d as he is called, is left to his own devices when his mother dies in 1377 in the tiny, poor English village of Stromford. He doesn\u2019t have a family and knows nothing of his father. All his mother leaves him is a cross of lead that he carries with him as he flees his village when declared a \u201cwolf\u2019s head\u201d\u2014a person who can be killed on sight\u2014for allegedly committing a crime. His priest, the one person he trusts, is murdered after trying to help and telling Asta\u2019s Son his real name (which is Crispin). Crispin\u2019s world has turned upside-down. After days trying to survive on his own in the woods, Crispin encounters a huge man in an abandoned church named Bear. Bear forces Crispin to swear to name him his new master. At first, Crispin despairs over this, but as time goes by, he realizes that Bear is a smart, kind man who truly cares about his well-being. Although Bear treats Crispin well, he keeps secrets from him, such as: who is Bear really, how does he know how to read and write, and why is it so important that he get to the town of Great Wexly for the Feast of John the Baptist? Of course, it doesn\u2019t help that they keep running into the man who declared Crispin a \u201cwolf\u2019s head\u201d either\u2014even in the huge town of Great Wexly. This book is a great, fast-paced read. Crispin, who at first seems a bit wishy-washy and timid, grows hugely as a character and we end up rooting for him as he fights (yes, fights!) for who and what matters to him. ...more Avi's books seem to be span all genres, the only thing that unites them is the intended audience, tweens. Crispin is somewhere in the range of fantasy and historical fiction, taking place in medieval Europe around the time of the plague. The story cover's Crispin's quest to learn the truth behind his birth after his mother's death. While the book had it's moments, it didn't capture my imagination like Who Stole the Wizard of Oz? The book borrows heavily on the fantasy genre conventions and relies Avi's books seem to be span all genres, the only thing that unites them is the intended audience, tweens. Crispin is somewhere in the range of fantasy and historical fiction, taking place in medieval Europe around the time of the plague. The story cover's Crispin's quest to learn the truth behind his birth after his mother's death. While the book had it's moments, it didn't capture my imagination like Who Stole the Wizard of Oz? The book borrows heavily on the fantasy genre conventions and relies too much on Crispin's emotional state to carry the plot. If I were a younger reader and still relatively new to the genre, I would probably enjoy the novel more. ...more One of my good friends recommended this series to me and I was in the mood for a change of pace in what I was reading so I gave it a try. I thought this was well done middle grade historical fiction. I've read several other books by Avi and enjoy his writing. I felt like I learned a few things and was entertained along the way. Overall a good book I would recommend to those who enjoy Historical Fiction. Content: Clean I think I would have liked this a lot as a middle-grade reader. It was still all right - I liked the time setting and the characters. The Cross of Lead is a very interesting book. I liked it, but I don\u2019t know if it is for everyone. It is kind of a tired story line about being accused of a crime he didn\u2019t commit, reminded me of the fugitive. His arch-enemy is John Aycliffe, who for some reason does not like Crispin. I found the English phrases interesting, such as the term Wolf\u2019s Head, meaning that anyone who sees the boy can kill him. There is some mild violence of Father Quinel having is throat slashed while helping Crispin e The Cross of Lead is a very interesting book. I liked it, but I don\u2019t know if it is for everyone. It is kind of a tired story line about being accused of a crime he didn\u2019t commit, reminded me of the fugitive. His arch-enemy is John Aycliffe, who for some reason does not like Crispin. I found the English phrases interesting, such as the term Wolf\u2019s Head, meaning that anyone who sees the boy can kill him. There is some mild violence of Father Quinel having is throat slashed while helping Crispin escape, but nothing to graphic. Predictably, he meets an adult named Bear who mentors him in juggling, staying alive and eating rabbits. They go into a city where they find themselves entangled in a mystery. I am sure for a teen reader this book will be interesting and fascinating. It is well written and has an easy to read lyricism to the text. For the older reader who might be more familiar with the plot line, it might get a little boring. It is a great book for about a 5th grader, give or take a grade level. It is full of questions and secrets to answer. Students should get really engrossed in it. ...more Loved it! Set in the 14th Century. Historical fiction at it's best. Great bits of wisdom. \"Music is the tongue of souls\" \"The only difference between a dead fool and a live one is the dead one has a deeper grave\". He is a great author and I am looking forward to reading more of his work. Our children could learn many lessons from this book as can we. I started this book yesterday afternoon while I was waiting at the DMV and finished it this morning. Could not put it down, and I will think about Loved it! Set in the 14th Century. Historical fiction at it's best. Great bits of wisdom. \"Music is the tongue of souls\" \"The only difference between a dead fool and a live one is the dead one has a deeper grave\". He is a great author and I am looking forward to reading more of his work. Our children could learn many lessons from this book as can we. I started this book yesterday afternoon while I was waiting at the DMV and finished it this morning. Could not put it down, and I will think about it for days. ...more This was fast-paced and full of historical details; I found myself reading several chapters at a time and was really interested by it. Really liked this book!! Amazing story and good lesson. I'd like to give this Newberry winner by Avi 3.5 stars but that's not an option. So, when forced to choose, I'll go with three. This is Avi's 50th book (amazing!) and is historical fiction based on research. Avi did research into the time period and one of the characters, John Ball, is based on a real person. At the end of the book Avi explains his interest in the period began in college when he read about the Peasants' Rebellion and a series of lectures he attended on the late Middle Ages. This I'd like to give this Newberry winner by Avi 3.5 stars but that's not an option. So, when forced to choose, I'll go with three. This is Avi's 50th book (amazing!) and is historical fiction based on research. Avi did research into the time period and one of the characters, John Ball, is based on a real person. At the end of the book Avi explains his interest in the period began in college when he read about the Peasants' Rebellion and a series of lectures he attended on the late Middle Ages. This interest in the time period is evidenced particularly at the beginning and middle of the book. For those less familiar with some of the feudal terms, a glossary is provided at the end. From the start of the book Avi situates the reader into a feudal time period in which England is still reeling from the impact of wars and the plague, is rife with political and church corruption, and in which a majority of the people are living in impoverished conditions. Crispin, the main character, lives a life of poverty with little hope or expectation for betterment in this life. He is bound by religious doctrine and societal expectation that teach one to accept and not question. This is a story of morality and change. It questions what is family, demonstrates the corruption of unchecked power, and ultimately offers a glimpse of hope through change (personal and societal). Avi's end of the book interview explains that he is seeking to write a story that is a prelude to (and ultimately window into) the reformation of a culture and how difficult change is. As you read the story it is clear that the ruling class live a very different life and wish to maintain it at an enormous cost to the serfs who live as slaves. Avi also indicates that he is seeking to emphasize a \"philosophy for change.\" He states that if we understand that change is part of history (of the human experience), then change is something that is a thread through time and that we are capable of creating & engendering change. The reason this is important in this review is that while the beginning of the book appears to be realistic for the time, the end of the book does not appear to be realistic. (Hence the 3 star review). How the book wraps up does not seem to be authentic, regardless of the change that has occurred within Crispin. That said, I did enjoy the book, but I think that a caveat of unrealistic ending needs to be articulated. The book is certainly in line with Avi's stated philosophy of change, but the authenticity, particularly at the end, is somewhat compromised. ...more A mystery/coming of age story. A real page turner. I started reading it at midnight and next thing I knew it was 4am and I'd completely killed my sleep patterns. Really interesting story about a boy who is a serf, who is blamed by his Steward for crimes he did not commit -- apparently as an excuse to legally kill him. The boy runs away, meets a roving entertainer who will helps him (takes him on as his apprentice). The man, who at first doubts the boys story, but when it become clear that Stewar A mystery/coming of age story. A real page turner. I started reading it at midnight and next thing I knew it was 4am and I'd completely killed my sleep patterns. Really interesting story about a boy who is a serf, who is blamed by his Steward for crimes he did not commit -- apparently as an excuse to legally kill him. The boy runs away, meets a roving entertainer who will helps him (takes him on as his apprentice). The man, who at first doubts the boys story, but when it become clear that Steward really is going to extreme lengths to hunt down and kill the boy the entertainer starts to question why. What unravels is something of a critical commentary of the abuses of power that extreme hierarchy allows. The book isn't Historically correct. It doesn't actually teach you all that much about the period (in terms of the wars, etc). What it does offer is some insight to the mindset of serfs and other people at the lower end of the hierarchy -- and why they were willing to live that way. It claims to take part during the reign of Edward III, only it starts in spring 1377 and seems to run over the course of a few months without ever mentioning the death of Edward... there is only one historical person in the book, John Ball, and he's only a character in passing. The not so hidden curriculum of this book is really about teaching why our system of government (democracy) is superior. ...more I read this book as part of my quest to read all of the Newbery books. This was not one of the betters ones. I can't believe how little happened in this book. It was so slow . There was (at least) one chapter about standing helplessly in the forest for a day, waiting until nighttime so that the plot could move forward. Another chapter about eating lunch. Another about packing up lunch to continue hiking. I didn't like any of the characters. The protagonist goes from frustratingly obedient to frustr I read this book as part of my quest to read all of the Newbery books. This was not one of the betters ones. I can't believe how little happened in this book. It was so slow . There was (at least) one chapter about standing helplessly in the forest for a day, waiting until nighttime so that the plot could move forward. Another chapter about eating lunch. Another about packing up lunch to continue hiking. I didn't like any of the characters. The protagonist goes from frustratingly obedient to frustratingly disobedient. The plot surprises were not surprising. I wondered if the book was acclaimed for its wealth of vocabulary words to look up, such as mazer (a drinking bowl), wattle and daub (the building technique) and the various liturgical hours (fixed times of prayer). However, I'm not sure it would do well in a public school curriculum, since the whole text is peppered with constant God, Jesus, Hell and prayer. I know it is an important facet of the characters, but I am reminded of George Carlin's list of people he could do without, which includes \"anyone who mentions Jesus more than three hundred times in a two-minute conversation.\" There is one historical character in the book (John Ball), so I wonder if the series is meant to describe the Peasants' Revolt from a child's point of view? I don't think I'll pick up the others to find out. ...more Crispin was born a peasant in medieval England. The book opens with his mother dying and having never known his father, Crispin is an orphan at thirteen years old. In a strange turn of events, Crispin is accused of a crime he didn't commit and must flee his village to escape death. On his own and away from home for the first time, he sees new things, meets new people, and learns new skills. Crispin learns about the world through his new friend Bear, a juggler. However, they are constantly on ale Crispin was born a peasant in medieval England. The book opens with his mother dying and having never known his father, Crispin is an orphan at thirteen years old. In a strange turn of events, Crispin is accused of a crime he didn't commit and must flee his village to escape death. On his own and away from home for the first time, he sees new things, meets new people, and learns new skills. Crispin learns about the world through his new friend Bear, a juggler. However, they are constantly on alert since Crispin is considered a dangerous fugitive. Crispin's past and the turmoil in England at the time are about to collide and come to a head. I read this book with my sixth grade class while they simultaneously learned about medieval history. While the vocabulary could be challenging and the story starts off a bit slow, the kids really got into this book. They enjoyed learning about the language and culture of this time period, along with the adventure and mystery of the story itself. We especially liked how Crispin changed and grew over the course of the novel. As a teacher, I appreciated Bear's insight and advice about life. Students are already clamoring to read the next book in the trilogy. ...more Crispin by Avi is a thrilling book about a young 13 year old boy who lives in a small village called Stromford. Crispin is wanted all across the land because he was accused of theft. Crispin and his companion Bear embark on a journey to the palace where they hope to find a place to stay and find out who Crispins father is. I first read this book a long time ago and I really enjoyed it from what I remembered but I decided to read it again and it was even better then the first time I read it. Cris Crispin by Avi is a thrilling book about a young 13 year old boy who lives in a small village called Stromford. Crispin is wanted all across the land because he was accused of theft. Crispin and his companion Bear embark on a journey to the palace where they hope to find a place to stay and find out who Crispins father is. I first read this book a long time ago and I really enjoyed it from what I remembered but I decided to read it again and it was even better then the first time I read it. Crispin is full of twists and turns and you can never be certain about anything in this book. Crispins personality is adventuress and smart. He is a witty kid and never trusts anybody but Bear. Bear is a jest ore that Crispin found when he flees the village. Bear is a huge guy on the outside but very kind to Crispin. Crispin is a young boy who does not yet know what he is capable of. Bears personality is very outgoing and nice, he always looks after Crispin because Crispin has no parents anymore. Bear and Crispin get to the kingdom to find that they have been waited for by the soldiers and the new king were the plot goes I'm a totally exiting and horrific direction. I really loved this book! I would suggest it to everyone and it's a must read. ...more This is definitely a page-turner. It is mind-bogglingly well-written, impossibly riveting, and well-plotted. However, I did have a couple problems with this that kept it from venturing beyond 3-star range. First of all, I really did not like the choice to put this book in first person at all (and that's unusual, considering a third person narrative is sometimes actually enough to automatically subtract a star off a review). We could still get access to Crispin's deepest thoughts and worries with This is definitely a page-turner. It is mind-bogglingly well-written, impossibly riveting, and well-plotted. However, I did have a couple problems with this that kept it from venturing beyond 3-star range. First of all, I really did not like the choice to put this book in first person at all (and that's unusual, considering a third person narrative is sometimes actually enough to automatically subtract a star off a review). We could still get access to Crispin's deepest thoughts and worries without hearing his story told in his voice. The narrative is very matter-of-fact, and frankly, disturbed me. But some of Avi's descriptions and the fact that his writing is so darn gorgeous makes up for it. Also, I thought that the extreme amount of action, sometimes with blood and gore involved, was a bit too valiant of an attempt to get boys to read literature. Yes, it won the Newbery, and because of that a lot of females will read this too, but I thought this would have still been a great story without the sword-fighting and Crispin's freak personality change in the last couple chapters. Recommended, and very hard not to crave the sequels. ...more The boy everyone called \"Asta's Son\" lived with his outcast mother in a poor English village during the middle ages. For thirteen years, his life consisted of little more than praying, going to church, and trying not to starve, but when he is accused of a crime he didn't commit and forced to flee from his town, he quickly learns there is much more to the world than he ever dreamed... I didn't love this, and am surprised it won the Newbery Award. The details were good, but authors like Tamora Pier The boy everyone called \"Asta's Son\" lived with his outcast mother in a poor English village during the middle ages. For thirteen years, his life consisted of little more than praying, going to church, and trying not to starve, but when he is accused of a crime he didn't commit and forced to flee from his town, he quickly learns there is much more to the world than he ever dreamed... I didn't love this, and am surprised it won the Newbery Award. The details were good, but authors like Tamora Pierce include comparable details in a less dry manner. The constant religious talk might make it hard to use in public schools, while Bear's skepticism about Christianity would make it hard to use in Christian schools. There were other things that I found strange - for example, early in the book, Crispin freaks out upon seeing a dead body, but later, he participates in a murder and literally walks away laughing and playing the flute - but in general, it just felt very shallow, even for a children's book. I'm looking forward to discussing this one in my book group to see what I missed... Good choice for tween boys who want historific. ...more Crispin's mother dies, and the steward of his feudal village suddenly declares him a thief, even though he's done nothing wrong, and a \"wolf's head,\" which essentially means that a price is on his head. From there, Crispin is on the run, but he doesn't know why, or how he will survive in the world. I didn't really like this one, which is strange, because I've loved Avi's other historical fiction titles (I read True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle about a thousand times as a kid), and because this Crispin's mother dies, and the steward of his feudal village suddenly declares him a thief, even though he's done nothing wrong, and a \"wolf's head,\" which essentially means that a price is on his head. From there, Crispin is on the run, but he doesn't know why, or how he will survive in the world. I didn't really like this one, which is strange, because I've loved Avi's other historical fiction titles (I read True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle about a thousand times as a kid), and because this one even won a Newbery. But this one bored me. It might have been better if I had read it as a kid, before I knew that The Twist is the second most common twist in all of storytelling (right after \"she was dead the whole time!\" but before \"the narrator himself is the murderer.\") The best recommendation I can give about this book is that it could be useful in a sixth grade unit in the Middle Ages, because of the clear picture it gives of the ways in which that era was defined by feudalism, death, ignorance, and a general lack of proper sewage disposal. ...more What a great children's book! Although a fair warning: since it takes place in the Middle Ages, it has some historically appropriate, gruesome violence. The author does not dwell on it, but it's there. In spite of this, I would recommend the book for boys in middle grades, if they like adventure and history. Added to Catherine Called Birdie and Midwife's Apprentice, this book is a valuable addition to the Middle Ages historical fiction segment. I really liked how the author created a language th What a great children's book! Although a fair warning: since it takes place in the Middle Ages, it has some historically appropriate, gruesome violence. The author does not dwell on it, but it's there. In spite of this, I would recommend the book for boys in middle grades, if they like adventure and history. Added to Catherine Called Birdie and Midwife's Apprentice, this book is a valuable addition to the Middle Ages historical fiction segment. I really liked how the author created a language that sounds a bit medieveal but still it's completely clear and understandable. The first few chapters grab the reader with a mystery: who are Crispin's parents? Why does he know so little about them? Why is somebody trying to kill him? It reminds me of the Harry Potter formula: orphan who is in danger. It works really well. The only thing that I did not like as an adult is that the ending is a bit too unlikely, but I will grant you that a kid book needs a happy ending more than complete historical accuracy. ...more The novel, \"Crispin: The Cross of Lead,\" is about a young boy known as Asta's son, about the age of 13, who lived with his mother in the small village of Stromford. He did not have any idea of his father's identity, but was described as a man of no honor. His mother dies in the first chapter, and he is declared a \"wolf's head\" for stealing money. This is the main conflict of the book, and begins Crispin's story. I found the novel to be very, very realistic in its ways, adding in religious terms t The novel, \"Crispin: The Cross of Lead,\" is about a young boy known as Asta's son, about the age of 13, who lived with his mother in the small village of Stromford. He did not have any idea of his father's identity, but was described as a man of no honor. His mother dies in the first chapter, and he is declared a \"wolf's head\" for stealing money. This is the main conflict of the book, and begins Crispin's story. I found the novel to be very, very realistic in its ways, adding in religious terms that I could somewhat understand, though if someone nonreligious were to read this, it might not make as much sense. The book had it's little whims and sparks of suspense, which made the read more enjoyable. I particularly loved how they blindly introduced so many important details to the plot very early, and that it only made sense if you read all the way through, such as the conversation that Crispin had overheard between John Aycliffe and the other man. Overall, a lovely book with lovely characters and plot. ...more Set in 14th century England not long after the Black Death cut the European population nearly in half, this book follows the story of an orphaned peasant boy known only as Asta\u2019s Son. After his mother dies, Asta\u2019s Son learns from the village priest that he has a name, Crispin, and a heritage that has the manor steward wanting to kill him. After barely escaping, Crispin meets a man called Bear (a traveling actor) and sets off for places unknown with him. Along the way he begins to claim an identi Set in 14th century England not long after the Black Death cut the European population nearly in half, this book follows the story of an orphaned peasant boy known only as Asta\u2019s Son. After his mother dies, Asta\u2019s Son learns from the village priest that he has a name, Crispin, and a heritage that has the manor steward wanting to kill him. After barely escaping, Crispin meets a man called Bear (a traveling actor) and sets off for places unknown with him. Along the way he begins to claim an identity and self-esteem that he previously thought impossible. Reaction: I liked this book, although I didn\u2019t love it. I did think it portrayed the time period in a gritty and realistic way. Kids may be surprised at the brutality of 14th century England. Also, Crispin was a great \u201ccoming-of-age\u201d story. This would be good paired with Terry Dreary\u2019s The Measly Middle Ages (A Horrible History book). Hooking kids with the gross and bizarre bits in history can get them wanting to read more. ...more Review by Jill Williamson Asta\u2019s son has never had a name. But now that his mother has died, a priest tells him his name is Crispin. Accused of a crime he didn\u2019t commit, Crispin flees his village home. On his journey he meets a juggler named Bear, who teaches him the ways of entertaining, self defense, and snaring rabbits. At first Crispin is afraid of Bear, but the man takes care of him and teaches him to think for himself. Crispin\u2019s enemies continue to pursue him. Crispin wonders why they are so Review by Jill Williamson Asta\u2019s son has never had a name. But now that his mother has died, a priest tells him his name is Crispin. Accused of a crime he didn\u2019t commit, Crispin flees his village home. On his journey he meets a juggler named Bear, who teaches him the ways of entertaining, self defense, and snaring rabbits. At first Crispin is afraid of Bear, but the man takes care of him and teaches him to think for himself. Crispin\u2019s enemies continue to pursue him. Crispin wonders why they are so intent on seeing him killed? He is no one. He and Bear reach the city of Great Wexly where Crispin stumbles onto a dark secret that leaves him no choice but to fight for his and Bear\u2019s life. Crispin: the Cross of Lead is a story about a poor orphan in medieval England. Avi creates a fascinating world for the reader that shocks and fascinates as much as the plot. It\u2019s no surprise why this book earned the Newberry. I highly recommend it for everyone. ...more Would you like to read one of the best books ever ? Then keep on reading.The one who created Crispin is Avi which is a good author.Crispin lost his mother and father.He was so sad.One day three man wanted to chase Crispin but he escaped and found himself in a forest.It was night and he climbed on a tree and spend a night there.The day after he saw an old man. When I read the book first it was boring but when I read more than five pages I started loving it and wanted to read more. It was boring b Would you like to read one of the best books ever ? Then keep on reading.The one who created Crispin is Avi which is a good author.Crispin lost his mother and father.He was so sad.One day three man wanted to chase Crispin but he escaped and found himself in a forest.It was night and he climbed on a tree and spend a night there.The day after he saw an old man. When I read the book first it was boring but when I read more than five pages I started loving it and wanted to read more. It was boring because of course the author should talk about the characters.Then I started loving it because more action was coming.I recommend this book to everyone who hates books,because it is an awesome book.Once you read his book you want to read another book. Crispin is very adventerous and very suspencfull. Thanks to Avi for this book . i really enjoyed it . Read it !! ...more I got this one from the library because of a rave review from a Goodreads friend. I certainly agree with her assessment, my only reservation (if it really is one) is that it's written for people who are the same age as the narrator (13 years). But it was a wonder-filled portrayal of a young boy's journey away from his tiny village to become aware, for the first time, of the wide world. Very melodramatic and full of cliff-hangers and hair-breadth escapes. But also full of genuine amazement in the I got this one from the library because of a rave review from a Goodreads friend. I certainly agree with her assessment, my only reservation (if it really is one) is that it's written for people who are the same age as the narrator (13 years). But it was a wonder-filled portrayal of a young boy's journey away from his tiny village to become aware, for the first time, of the wide world. Very melodramatic and full of cliff-hangers and hair-breadth escapes. But also full of genuine amazement in the descriptions of large towns, large churches, crowds of people, the middle-class buying, selling, and trying to scrape together a living. A far more authentic feeling of what the middle ages were like than anything you'll get from a grown-up like Ken Follett. ...more This book was not one of my favorites. I thought it was written well enough, with an interesting story line and idea, but I don't think it was quite good enough to win the Newbery award, especially after reading some of the books that earned an honor for that year- books that were written far better, and dealt with bigger issues in better ways than this book. I don't have anything in particular against this book other than not being overly impressed with it, but I almost feel that they gave Avi This book was not one of my favorites. I thought it was written well enough, with an interesting story line and idea, but I don't think it was quite good enough to win the Newbery award, especially after reading some of the books that earned an honor for that year- books that were written far better, and dealt with bigger issues in better ways than this book. I don't have anything in particular against this book other than not being overly impressed with it, but I almost feel that they gave Avi the award because he already had two honors, and they felt that he should just get the award this time. (Although with that logic, it STILL should have gone to Nancy Farmer...) Anyway, not a bad book by any means, but it was nothing stellar. ...more Great example of historical fiction. However, this fact makes the story a bit more obscure for children. Set in the 1600's where the general population was almost considered the property of the landowner and at their mercy. If the Lord of the Manor is an unkind or even brutal man this made life very difficult and sometimes down right dangerous. This story is one that should be discussed with an adult after reading to understand the historical significance. Not really suitable for young children. I Great example of historical fiction. However, this fact makes the story a bit more obscure for children. Set in the 1600's where the general population was almost considered the property of the landowner and at their mercy. If the Lord of the Manor is an unkind or even brutal man this made life very difficult and sometimes down right dangerous. This story is one that should be discussed with an adult after reading to understand the historical significance. Not really suitable for young children. I'd say 5th grade or higher. I did like the character of Crispen as narrator, it added some honesty and innocence to an otherwise some-what brutal world. ...more", "Title": "The Cross of Lead"},
