{"Comments": "The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of. Flipping through the pages, my heart leapt many times; those waves bearing the ring of countenance were from still stream but the ones with ripples of accusation roared thunder. Accusation? Accusation hurled towards whom? The fictional characters delicately brought to life by the stinging brush of the author or the guilty, manipulative, egocentric, conceited character of mine? Did my fingers pause typing these words defining myself? T The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of. Flipping through the pages, my heart leapt many times; those waves bearing the ring of countenance were from still stream but the ones with ripples of accusation roared thunder. Accusation? Accusation hurled towards whom? The fictional characters delicately brought to life by the stinging brush of the author or the guilty, manipulative, egocentric, conceited character of mine? Did my fingers pause typing these words defining myself? They did. And it also confirmed my worst fears: I am no angel and the pristine white enveloping me is a well-fabricated dwelling that I carry with temporary aplomb, aware somewhere deep inside that some of its bricks are turning cancerous by my vices. Why, else, should I feel tormented at the sight of a 78-year old,<---M> Parkinson\u2019s afflicted Nariman Vakeel</---M>, whose profound literary mind is reduced to a negligible fraction, not by the disease and a broken leg but by the invalidating abandonment of Coomy and Jal, his step-children? Why, else, should I feel torn by the disintegrating domestic fabric of his other daughter, Roxana whose tireless strides of nursing her fragile father come at the cost of her husband, Yezad\u2019s never-seen-before condescension? Why, else, should I feel numbed at the virtues of a nine-year old Jehangir who knows to read the silent whimpers of his grandpa with sensitivity far greater than his parents'? Why else, should I feel jealous of the wasted lottery seller, Villie, who carries behind her shabby attire and even shabbier house, a heart of gold that gladly spills over to brighten her neigbours\u2019 gloomy lives? Why, else, should I envy Husain, the looted peon, who possesses a spirit so much greater than the loss he suffered at the hands of religious fanatics that his volatility alone is his purifying fragrance? Why, else, should I feel staggered at the pouring of Mr.Kapur, whose benevolence weds passion in such fierce ceremony that his employees, Yezad and Husain get absolved of all their sorrows in its pious fire? Why, else, should I feel frozen to witness the eternal nerve of meritoriousness that holds its own in Jal, despite three dominating decades of Coomy's heedlessness? Why, else, should I stand dwarfed by Nariman who bears the burning thorns on his soul, adamantly barricading their venomous pricks from seeping into his heart and its inhabitants? When the flute of life suddenly starts belting cantankerous sounds, it is easier to blame the flute maker; the chinks in our playing armour are conveniently swept beneath the carpet. That the sea of life will keep us afloat for a while and then swallow us without exception is a reality that eludes us when we are on shore. It is only the compassionate, who can not only empathize with the unruliness of the sea from afar but also send a boat of good words and deeds to ease the ride for those who are sea-bound next.<---F> A letter is like a perfume</---F>. You don\u2019t apply a whole bottle. Just one dab will fill your senses. Words are the same \u2013 a few are sufficient. All days would remain the same if not for an act of kindness or a sliver of smile. Mistry knew it better than many of us. Hence, he did not leave a single chapter in this magnificent book where the beauty of innocence did not bathe us anew or the splendor of solidarity did not shake our shackles. His observations kissed the earthy tones of daily life and enlivened their cells to shine a little. He mixed the odours of past and present and softly pressed the nozzle to fill the future room with a foreign aroma that became our own on touching our skins. He maneuvered with utmost care, almost gracefully imitating Nariman\u2019s movements, not ruffling our senses acutely but with a gentle thrust, like shaking a medicine bottle to get the mix right and placed a few shards of mirror on our palms: they did not cut, they did not intimidate, they simply showed our reflection. Amazing, how a photo shows you things that your eyes forgot to see. ...more UPDATE....Nov. 17th ...Completed Book....Completed Review (<---B>STAGE 2</---B>) This is my first book by Robinton Mistry. ( a dangerous novel to begin at 1am). Thankfully, the prior five hours sleep sustained me for another 5 hours. At which point, I had to drift off again for a little more morning sleep. Note: Today is Friday, Nov. 6th. (Hmmm, our daughter's 30th birthday)... \"FAMILY MATTERS\". .....( see, I couldn't resist 'not' thinking of 'family') I was inspired to read this from having read *Seemita's* re UPDATE....Nov. 17th ...Completed Book....Completed Review (STAGE 2) This is my first book by Robinton Mistry. ( a dangerous novel to begin at 1am). Thankfully, the prior five hours sleep sustained me for another 5 hours. At which point, I had to drift off again for a little more morning sleep. Note: Today is Friday, Nov. 6th. (Hmmm, our daughter's 30th birthday)... \"FAMILY MATTERS\". .....( see, I couldn't resist 'not' thinking of 'family') I was inspired to read this from having read *Seemita's* review ***3*** times. Thank You, Seemita! Note: I bought a physical book ( like New), for a penny, plus shipping for a total of $4.00. Crazy- ridiculously - beautiful - this book is...( whom I'll share with, my aunt, and my neighbor Ardis). A few of my personal book lovers don't e-read, so it's important for me to give or share physical books. This book which traveled far to reach me -will land in the hands of others who will appreciate it. I'll be writing this review in stages...( I'm obviously not finished with the book yet)... STAGE 1: I've read 113 pages so far .... At this point it's Nariman Vakeel whom my heart breaks most. Having Parkinson's disease is no picnic, ... but then add the need for a hearing aid, bifocals, and dentures. He has osteoporosis, and a broken leg. Medications, (sleeping pills and anti-diarrhea, etc.), are needed (one must remember the schedule). Bathing, clean clothes, simple tasks become difficult. Depression can be......'depressing'. The challenge of living with dignity with a failing physical body...could seem hopeless. Enter the 'mind'.... What haunts Nariman, besides the fact that his independent life has been stripped away --is his memories for the woman he loved --forbidden to marry -- torments him again and again I'll Be Back .....5 stars so far....(if it goes down by the end of the book - I'll change the stars then) STAGE 2: Nariman is still the central character in my mind. ( 79 year old retired professor) ...'suffering'! The deeper I think about Nariman, the more it's clear he is suffering from all the most cherish things in life: love, health, happiness, and freedom. Two days ago I was speaking to my close friend (76 year old retired professor), whose mother celebrated her 100th birthday just a month ago. They had a 3 day - huge family celebration for her. She is in excellent health --and looks amazing! My 76 year old retired professor friend ( who passed on his thoughts to me about 'how to read the book \"Ulysses\", by James Joyce), is also in great health, happy, loved, and thriving in all areas of his life. Married 45 years..travels.. no depression..loves to dance ( has a dance studio in their home), ...and very the opposite from Nariman. So?? maybe there is hope? Yet..with the fragility that life is...we never know what's around the corner. Some days in our own outlook on life ... it can 'stink', with feelings like we're sloshing through the mud -- other days are smooth rolling and good enough -- and at rare times we feel exuberant. Yet, another big difference between my retired professor's friends life ( and most of our lives), than with Narimam, was 'freedom-of-choice'. By following the rules, beliefs, traditions, customs, of the Parsee ( Zoroastrian), religion - Nariman wasn't allowed to marry Lucy because she wasn't of the same faith. I looked up more information about Zoroastrianism...( an ancient religious fading faith). ...which was important in this novel, because we got to see the bigger picture of problems that occur- long lasting - people scared from not being allowed intermarriage. It's never just one person who suffers when 'rights' are taken away. A fricken train load of people also suffer. Nariman 's stepchildren carried resentment toward him. Coomy was bitter and domineering. Jal was more mild mannered and acquiescent. When they no longer wanted to take care of him - mostly tired of taking cared of his bodily functions.. after he broke his leg... They pass Nariman off to his biological daughter Roxana, her husband Yezad, and their two boys Jehanjir, and Murad. ( originally only for three weeks)....but with squabbling- fretting- arguing- ( feeling guilty), they begged not to take him back. Smashed together like sardines in a small apartment flat, Roxana was a saint in taking care of her father - but she and Yezad were starting to fight over finances. Roxana and Yezad are also fighting with Coomy and Jal. The young children were having struggles adjusting as well. Downstairs was Yezad's boss from The Bombay Sporting Goods Emporium, (Mr. Vikram Kapur), and a violinist from The Bombay Symphony, (Daisy). Daisy visited Nariman to play her violin to add comfort. Each character had different personal concerns and challenges. I found I really couldn't judge any of them harshly -- but there were times I wished a character made a different choice than they did. For example Yezad started gambling illegally because he was having a hard time making ends with the added financial stress ( medical costs, etc.), from having Nariman live with them). The setting in Bombay is integral to the book - the customs, languages, politics, religions, ( constant conflicts between Hindus and Muslims), and the overall spirit. Reading \"<+++>Family Matters</+++>\" was sometimes sad it hurt, other times, so dramatic--I I laughed silly: \"What happened here?\", asked Yezad. Fight? \"Merman Irani explained that a scuffle had broken out with a customer. Saalo maaderchod came in like a king, sat down, and ordered tea with bun-muskaa, extra butter and all. With loud busy teeth, batchar-batcher, the bastard ate everything, happy as a goat in a garbage dump, and gurgled down his tea. When he got the bill he said, Sorry, no money. My waiter thought he was joking. But the bhonsrino kept refusing to pay.\" \"That was when the waiter pushed him and the fight began. Eventually, three waiters held the man down while Merwan himself went through the man's pockets.\" \"But I found nothing except a snot-filled hankerchief. Absolute karko, not one paisa. He said he had no money, but he was hungry--just imagine the maaderchod's courage.\" \"At least he was honest, said Vilas.\" A masterpiece.... in the city of Bombay capturing the essence of India....*Timeless*-Terrific! This was written in 2002 - 13 years ago... ( feels like it was written today). I recently read a debut novel, \"In Another Life\", by Julie Christine Johnson,.....which I feel will prove to be 'Timeless'!! These at my favorite types of books.. books that are ageless. I highly recommend FAMILY MATTERS ....with its universal themes....love & family, illness, life transitions, sibling rivalry, religion, financial stress, poverty, politics, culture, betrayal, loss, death, friendships, strengths, failings, regret, secrets, and our ordinary lives which are extraordinary in themselves. This novel was like a friend! Thank you to Seemita ...( my friend and inspiration in reading this)! ...more As Nariman counts his last breaths amid the serene violin rendition of Brahms Lullaby, played by Daisy, my mind races through a gloomy apartment where the stale odor of eau de cologne amalgamates in the air of misery thriving among the bustling of outside traffic and noisy vendors trying to earn their daily wage unaware of Nariman\u2019s existence. The acridity of my parched throat makes me think about my death. Will I die as a happy soul or will death be a gift that I would crave in the course of vu As Nariman counts his last breaths amid the serene violin rendition of Brahms Lullaby, played by Daisy, my mind races through a gloomy apartment where the stale odor of eau de cologne amalgamates in the air of misery thriving among the bustling of outside traffic and noisy vendors trying to earn their daily wage unaware of Nariman\u2019s existence. The acridity of my parched throat makes me think about my death. Will I die as a happy soul or will death be a gift that I would crave in the course of vulnerable seclusion? This is how Mistry\u2019s words affect me, as I breathe and feel every emotion that flows through the ink. It is not because of my familiarity with the physical surroundings or the Parsi community, but the fact that Mistry writes a simple story of nameless ordinary faces with astonishing lives. Old age and Parkinson\u2019s disease has not only bed-ridden Nariman but made him a burden on his financially challenged children. Coomy and Jal, his step-children, both heading their prime and plagued by their own ailments coax Nariman\u2019s biological daughter Roxanna into providing healthcare to her ailing father. A middle-class housewife with two young kids and a budgeted monthly survival faces a monstrous task by burning the candle at both ends. The woes of middle-classes ripened by bigotry and communalism are highlighted with sheer accuracy throughout the manuscript. The preposterous stubbornness of arranged marriages, the segregation of religious identities, stigmatism of step-parental aspects and the eternal financial instabilities mesh into a burdensome desperation of graphic cunningness. In Asian cultures, looking after elderly parents is viewed not only dutiful but the most obedient thing to do. The concept of old-aged homes is highly condemned in the Indian society (also, many other Asian cultures). Old age can be cruel and if plagued by incurable diseases it becomes a metal cage. A man who once was free to walk in the by lanes of his vicinity and enjoy a wonderful German orchestra at the nearby concert hall; Nariman was reduced to a mere caged mortal who longed for freedom to breathe fresh air, feel the splatter of rainwater as he walked through the puddles and for once make his own choices without being reprimanded for his doings. I empathize more towards Nariman than any other character in the book. Nariman could never marry his true love Lucy, for she was a Catholic, he could not bring his step-daughter (Coomy) to accept him as her father and now he was the sole reason for the rifts between his children. I wonder if my grandparents could have had found happiness if they were not arranged to be married? What would the circumstances be if my father was not financially well enough to take care of my grandfather during his last days surviving cancer? Would we have been deprived of basic amenities like butter or hot water and frantically hoped to find additional money in the budgeted envelopes of monthly payments? In a society where corruption is spelled in gold letters, and a man\u2019s potency is derived from his monetary success, money matters; come what may. Each sketched characters defines the ebb and flow of life and its greatness that we as children dream to achieve. Right from Nariman to Roxanna and even Yehzad (Roxanna\u2019s husband) who once nurtured the dream of Canadian immigration, somehow end up in a vortex of familial or financial obligations of a capricious life. Mistry does not adhere either to pompous melancholic facades or epical anecdotes. He throws out the phrase of ordinary people with ordinary lives. For if, lives were ordinary, nostalgia would not be such a pain in the arse and worries would not construct topsy-turvy pathways. ...more \"Curious, he thought, how, if you knew a person long enough, he could elicit every kind of emotion from you, every possible reaction, envy, admiration, pity, irritation, fury, fondness, jealousy, love, disgust. But in the end all human beings became candidates for compassion, all of us, without exception...and if we could recognize this from the beginning, what a saving in pain and grief and misery...\" This thought from Yezad (ch 17) sums up his moment of insight in this teeming story of generati \"Curious, he thought, how, if you knew a person long enough, he could elicit every kind of emotion from you, every possible reaction, envy, admiration, pity, irritation, fury, fondness, jealousy, love, disgust. But in the end all human beings became candidates for compassion, all of us, without exception...and if we could recognize this from the beginning, what a saving in pain and grief and misery...\" This thought from Yezad (ch 17) sums up his moment of insight in this teeming story of generational family \"matters\", complicated by inter-religious bickering, unfaithfulness of various kinds, jealousies, rivalries and surrounded by the massively overwhelming city of Bombay, being reborn (but not really changed) as Mumbai. Mistry is a master of the detail. In this city of millions, he finds the details to make a short walk memorable, the different sects and types to populate the streets, all for background to the main story of the Vakeels and Contractors and Chenoys. There are moments of beautiful emotion balanced against extreme thoughtlessness bordering on hate, described so well I felt I could see the faces, hear the words. There is so much here; it is Dickensian in scope and has many of the same concerns: poverty, illness, inequality of opportunity, politics and government all as malevolent influences on daily life. But this is modern day not 19th century. This is a family struggling to be a modern family in the late 20th century but cursed by family hatreds and misunderstandings. Such is life anywhere and everywhere perhaps. Highly recommended 4^ ...more What, I didn't review <+++>Family Matters</+++>? Okay, here is the review : <---A>Rohinton Mistry</---A> - three novels, three five star ratings Wow This book did for me what Suketu Mehta's \"Bombay. Maximum City\" couldn't - I could see, smell and feel the mega-city throughout the pages of this both realistic and nostalgic novel. I suppose that also my unability to throrouhghly enjoy non-fiction plays a role in this, I just need characters and plot to stay interested through a thick volume and Mistry provides both in a masterly way. Bombay and his protagonist's love and hate for the rotting and still lovely and lively place is one of the topi This book did for me what Suketu Mehta's \"Bombay. Maximum City\" couldn't - I could see, smell and feel the mega-city throughout the pages of this both realistic and nostalgic novel. I suppose that also my unability to throrouhghly enjoy non-fiction plays a role in this, I just need characters and plot to stay interested through a thick volume and Mistry provides both in a masterly way. Bombay and his protagonist's love and hate for the rotting and still lovely and lively place is one of the topics he adresses in \"Family Matters\" and maybe I should be thankful to Mehta that he helped me understand some of the political and social allusions which Mistry presents without explaining them for unenlightened readers - not a minus in my opinion as there's plenty of information somewhere else on the Shiv Sena party, on Zoroastrianism and housing situation in Bombay/Mumbai (hard to decide which name to use as through this book I've learned that even for the inhabitants it's a question of faith to opt for one or the other). I like learning stuff in books and this one made me look up many things about the Parsi community and other topics I didn't know much about, but Familiy Matters can definitely be also read just as a great story without getting further involved in Indian history or politics. As important as the city and inertwined with its destiny is the family whose matters have baptized the book. And the people portrayed by Mistry are wonderfully recognizable for everyone throughout the world: they're real, poignantly described, believable. I loved them, abhorred them, cared for them and wanted to yell at them sometimes, and I'll remember their fate and their evolution for a long time. And evolution is another big topic: Aging or the becoming of age, the growing up of children and the slow decay of the old - time and it's consuming nature make the reader sad and appreciative of the moment. Also the repetition of everything throughout history is tackled in a smooth way which doesn't seem forced: When in the epilogue the history of the grandfather and his tragic love seems to foreshadow the destiny of his grandson, the circle closes in an elegant way. Shakespeare is quoted several times and the novel definitely has a Shakespearean character - definitely recommended. ...more I usually feel a little bit of glow after finishing any book. I have the bad habit of calling every book I just finished \"my favorite\" -- until I finish the next one. But in this case, I really must stress that Family Matters is one of the best books I have ever read. I never re-read books, but this is one of those rare gems that even I want to return to. If you took all of Shakespeare's tragedies, condensed them into a story about one family, and set it in Bombay in the 1990s, this book would b I usually feel a little bit of glow after finishing any book. I have the bad habit of calling every book I just finished \"my favorite\" -- until I finish the next one. But in this case, I really must stress that Family Matters is one of the best books I have ever read. I never re-read books, but this is one of those rare gems that even I want to return to. If you took all of Shakespeare's tragedies, condensed them into a story about one family, and set it in Bombay in the 1990s, this book would be the result. Family Matters goes above and beyond the mundane and the domestic (even though most of the action takes place in a one-bedroom apartment) and tells the story of human beings and their relationships to one another: both the sublime and the foolish, the selfish and the divine. In this book Mistry makes several obscure references to India, Indian politics, and Zoroastrianism, and several pieces of dialog are in various languages other than English, but despite these barriers for a Western reader, I would whole-heartedly recommend this novel to anyone I know, especially to anyone who likes Shakespeare or otherwise enjoys stories that tackle all the really hard questions. There are several funny and witty moments throughout the book, but overall the tone is one of heart-crushing poignancy. Sometimes it was literally painful to read this book because so many scenes and remarks and characters were so powerful and moving -- in short, this is not a book to be picked up and put down lightly. You will get involved in it as though every joy and tragedy were happening within your own family. ...more ETA: The only reason I originally gave this three rather than two stars was that: 1. it accurately describes the deplorable way we today deal with old age and sickness in MANY countries of the world, and 2. not all blame was heaped on the government. People are who they are and unfortunately we often fail in coping with sick and/or elderly in our own family. The book was realistic. In its realism I found it terribly depressing. ******************************* All I can say is that this book made me ETA: The only reason I originally gave this three rather than two stars was that: 1. it accurately describes the deplorable way we today deal with old age and sickness in MANY countries of the world, and 2. not all blame was heaped on the government. People are who they are and unfortunately we often fail in coping with sick and/or elderly in our own family. The book was realistic. In its realism I found it terribly depressing. ******************************* All I can say is that this book made me miserable. I cannot deal with stories about dysfunctional families. I get frustrated and unhappy. When you read stories about how people have a hard time because they get caught in a war or a storm or genocide, you watch them fight to survive and you feel a bit of hope for mankind. These characters are strong and have fought for survival and at least some have succeeded. When you watch how normal people are mean to each other you only get filled with despair. I don\u2019t know what to do with my unhappiness when I read such books, books like this one by Robinton Mistry. The events described were very realistic, it is not that I am criticizing. I am in fact not criticizing the book in any way. It is about the importance of family. I mean look at that title! You learn about life in Bombay in the 90s. Corruption \u2013 there it is in one word. Life is a struggle for so many. Poor health care and no social network for the aged. This book is about not only the importance of family, but also about aging and how the young and old have so much to teach each other, but the message is clear that we rarely have the energy to stop and learn from each other. We are too busy just getting through life day by day. Did I learn anything? Well maybe a bit about Parsi traditions and culture. This book makes me thankful for living in countries that provide good health care and a relatively good social standard for ALL. Martin Jarvis\u2019 narration of the audiobook was excellent. Really excellent. Each character had their own intonation and you knew who was speaking just by the tone. ...more Reading Family Matters after reading A Fine Balance is a little anticlimactic. A Fine Balance comes very close to my idea of a perfect novel, so I doubted that Rohinton Mistry would be able to deliver something of similar calibre a second time. There is just something about A Fine Balance that smashes that wall between reader and text, breaking down the barrier until the fiction becomes as close to truth as fiction can. It is a visceral, highly emotional experience\u2014and it is utterly singular and Reading Family Matters after reading A Fine Balance is a little anticlimactic. A Fine Balance comes very close to my idea of a perfect novel, so I doubted that Rohinton Mistry would be able to deliver something of similar calibre a second time. There is just something about A Fine Balance that smashes that wall between reader and text, breaking down the barrier until the fiction becomes as close to truth as fiction can. It is a visceral, highly emotional experience\u2014and it is utterly singular and impossible to replicate. While I might give another Mistry book five stars, he has set the standard high. Family Matters is an excellent book, but it doesn\u2019t quite pack the same punch. Like A Fine Balance , this novel is set in Mumbai (then Bombay, and the nationalistic name change is an important plot point). Whereas the former is set during The Emergency , this novel is more contemporary, set sometime in the 1990s (I believe; I didn\u2019t catch an exact date). The right-wing and volatile Shiv Sena party is in power throughout the region, whipping up a nationalistic fervour at the expense of tolerance for India\u2019s diverse religions and cultures. In the midst of these times of change, we follow an extended family: Nariman, who slowly succumbing to Parkinson\u2019s; his two step-children, Jal and Coomy; his daughter, Roxana; and Roxana\u2019s husband, Yezad, and their two children, Jehangir, and Murad. When Nariman falls and breaks his leg while walking, he faces four weeks of immobility and bed rest. Though he has always lived with Jal and Coomy since his wife died, Coomy finds herself unwilling to shoulder this burden, so she literally shows up at Roxana and Yezad\u2019s doorstep with Nariman and without warning. Talk about pushy! At its best, Family Matters is the intricate interplay of three generations. Nariman continually recalls intense memories of a doomed love affair with a non-Parsi girl, and how she continued to dog him even after his ill-fated arranged marriage to Jal and Coomy\u2019s mother. He is a victim of the conservative bigotry of his parents and their friends, but he is not a shining husband to his new bride. Nariman carries around a lot of guilt, and it is interesting to see the contrast between the young man and the ailing one in the present day. Jal, Coomy, Roxana, and Yezad all belong to the latest batch of \u201cadults\u201d, though with Jal and Coomy that is a term only loosely applied. After Coomy unilaterally decides to transfer Nariman\u2019s care to Roxana and Yezad, we see the impact of caring for an older relative on the lifestyle and budget of a middle-class Indian family. Money becomes a real issue, and at times Yezad is sorely tempted to abandon the \u201cParsi honesty\u201d that has made him beloved to his boss at Bombay Sporting Goods. Their son, Jehangir, does more than contemplate. Always honest before, Jehangir overhears how his parents are tight for money and wonders how he can help. He crosses the line and accepts a 20-rupee bribe in his official capacity as Homework Monitor. It\u2019s one of those pivotal points in the novel: as he is about to accept the bribe, I wanted to do something and make him stop, even though I knew he was going to do it. A lot of the novel is like that: moments where suddenly the narrative tilts and becomes very predictable, but in a car-crash-like manner. We don\u2019t learn all that much about Murad, Jehangir\u2019s older brother. He is sort of the silent sibling, speaking up only when there needs to be a counterpoint to Jehangir\u2019s insistent voice. I wish we had learned more about him and about what he was going through at that age, especially since he becomes a more important character in the novel\u2019s quixotic epilogue. The epilogue is definitely the part of Family Matters that gives me, as a reader, the most difficulty processing. Part of me wonders why it\u2019s there . It skips forward five years, after a semi-satisfactory resolution that doesn\u2019t leave me quite as despairing as A Fine Balance \u2014and Mistry wrecks everything! Yezad has embraced his newfound faith in Zoroastrianism in an extreme way, butting heads with both his wife and the rebellious teenaged Murad. If I had to guess, I\u2019d say that Mistry includes this epilogue as a reminder that happy endings don\u2019t stay that way: no situation remains stable forever, and what might appear a happy ending could very well lead to further trouble down the road. I kind of feel like I am rambling on and stirring up name soup without actually saying much. I am having difficulty reviewing this novel because the whole thing works so well together, but when I try to pick out one of the parts, the entire structure collapses on me. I can\u2019t talk just about the way Yezad interacts with the political pressures on his boss or just about Jal and Coomy\u2019s abominable behaviour regarding Nariman\u2019s care. The book is aptly titled, because all of these events together create a story that is worth reading. The significance of Family Matters comes not from what Mistry has to say on any one topic, but the way each of those topics affects the members of this family. Not everyone will invest in the characters in such a way that the experience becomes meaningful. I did, although I didn\u2019t enjoy the portrayals of these people as much as I did the characters of A Fine Balance . Both novels, however, are incredibly intimate experiences. Moreover, I love the opportunity they give me to open my eyes and see a country and cultures that truly differ from my own views in so many different ways. (Yes, this is Mistry\u2019s interpretation of India, and I am aware that doesn\u2019t come without its own baggage. One advantage to reading A Fine Balance before Family Matters is that I recognized all the subtle digs he includes aimed at various critics of the former novel.) I don\u2019t just read fiction about India for the novelty value: I do it because I could read hundreds of novels set in the Western world, and they would improve my vocabulary and my literary aptitude, but they would only reinforce my biases and beliefs. There is so much more out there\u2014and at the same time, even families on the other side of the world struggle with issues I can recognize: the ailing elder and his lost love; deceit and desperation; trepidation over the changing times. Family Matters is strange and foreign but also comforting and familiar, and so while it is not quite sublime, it is definitely successful. ...more I liked this book after awhile, but initially, one of the characters, Coomy, irritated me so much I almost quit. Although the story is about a Mumbai family of Parsi's, and there are many Indian cultural-specific foods, religious customs and words mentioned, I felt this is a universal story about all affectionate, middle-class families. But on the other hand, the universality reminded me of the claustrophobic and eternal familial struggles of all human family life, which affect most families thr I liked this book after awhile, but initially, one of the characters, Coomy, irritated me so much I almost quit. Although the story is about a Mumbai family of Parsi's, and there are many Indian cultural-specific foods, religious customs and words mentioned, I felt this is a universal story about all affectionate, middle-class families. But on the other hand, the universality reminded me of the claustrophobic and eternal familial struggles of all human family life, which affect most families throughout time, and I not only am glad I currently live in a two-person household, but I found myself longing a bit for the hermit life. While culture and the crowded environment, and particularly religion, for this family, appeared to crush the sparkle out of them, it was the moderate kindness of certain family members at certain times that preserved what warmth and affection they possessed, even amplified their love for each other enough to survive as a family. They all seemed to feel family was important, even though each generation eventually succumbs to the constant downpour of the stresses of survival. Each individual in the story faces a personal trial which tests them in their personal beliefs about their world and about who they think they are, and most of them fail this test. Interestingly, of those who fail, some pick themselves up, admit their mistakes, and move on with more depth and wisdom. Others who feel they failed themselves begin to live lives of cringing fear, miserly grasping, and shrunken angry personalities. These are the individuals who bring cruelty and harshness into their family life, in this case, using religion to stifle and smother the natural bouyancy of everyone else. It is clearly fear and angst behind their controlling rigidity, but another generation is coming up, in turn struggling to define who they are and untested, willing to fight against parental and cultural boundaries. I think the novel is very realistic, and it speaks to those of us that have become aware cultural and religious assumptions can be a straightjacket as well as a support, and sometimes the tests we each face alone that show us to ourselves mean stepping outside what we believed. In standing alone in that new reality, some of us accept the losses of our grandiosity and beliefs, while others curl up into a ball and hide, chaining themselves hard to the first thing which feels safe, no matter how illusionary. (view spoiler) [For Coomy it was toys. For Yezad, it's religion. It's not accidental that both characters place their lucky talismans (toys, religious texts) into the same piece of furniture, decree that their artifacts are sacred space, and create a shrine, more mental than physical, which parches everything of joy. Nariman, and later Roxana and Jehanger, clearly had their moment of testing and became stronger people with increased self-confidence and more insight into their families. However, rebellion was not part of their natures, as it clearly is for Murad, and it would have been interesting to see what happens to him. I recklessly put forward the prediction he is the one to go to Canada. (hide spoiler) ] . Mistry starts and ends the book with the aging of Nariman, a fascinating and bittersweet look at what the end of a long life is like, when the body is quitting. Most of the family members reveal the best and worst of who they are through how they react to this intelligent, but physically failing, head of the family. He has Parkinson's and osteoporosis, and after breaking his leg becomes bedridden. Nariman's and 9-year-old Jehanger's relationship is the most heartwarming one in the book, as grandfather and grandson share each other joys and pains with a purity closest to what we all strive for in a relationship. Watching them through Roxana's eyes (who is Jehanger's mother and Nariman's daughter), made me think this is why people continue to create families in spite of the shoving and shaping families do to our destinies. ...more This is an exquisite book. Rohinton Mistry spins a tale of a Zoroastrian family, a story which can be the story of any family anywhere. Nariman Vakeel has a fall, Jal and Coomy his step children, send their father to their half sister Roxanne. Poor Roxanne has a small apartment, has a husband and two children. It is not that Jal and Coomy dislike Roxanne, oh no they do love their sister Roxanne a great deal. Jal and Coomy are just so unhappy, their lives follow a pattern and they hardly have an This is an exquisite book. Rohinton Mistry spins a tale of a Zoroastrian family, a story which can be the story of any family anywhere. Nariman Vakeel has a fall, Jal and Coomy his step children, send their father to their half sister Roxanne. Poor Roxanne has a small apartment, has a husband and two children. It is not that Jal and Coomy dislike Roxanne, oh no they do love their sister Roxanne a great deal. Jal and Coomy are just so unhappy, their lives follow a pattern and they hardly have anything to look forward to, they also believe that Roxanne is luckier than they are, she has after all a husband and kids. So in a fit of meanness they send their step father to Roxanne. Once Nariman Vakeel is at Roxanne's they plot and plan to keep him there for as long as they can, so they undertake extensive renovation of their house. The never ending renovation will keep their step father away for as long as it takes. But as we all know the best laid plans... Then there is a tragedy, a beam swings, catches Coomy on the head and she dies. A simple single act changes everything. You would think that when Roxanne and her family come to live in the palatial mansion that it would be better times for the family, but everything changes, especially for Roxanne\u2019s husband Yezda who from a simple fun loving man changes radically to a conservative Zoroastrian. Just goes to show how people can turn greedy, mean spirited and careless. Which brings us to the one act which put the entire chain of events in motion. Would things have been different if Nariman had not gone to live with Roxanne? Of course they would have. ...more The one thing that is common to all cultures is the difficulties in taking care of our aged parents or other family members. So from the beginning this story really hit home, basically had something similar to this happen in my husband's family, although I felt this was a bit exaggerated. The characters were all well drawn, even the characters on the sidelines were interesting and the two young boys won my heart. It definitely showed the effects and strain on everyone in the family and even when The one thing that is common to all cultures is the difficulties in taking care of our aged parents or other family members. So from the beginning this story really hit home, basically had something similar to this happen in my husband's family, although I felt this was a bit exaggerated. The characters were all well drawn, even the characters on the sidelines were interesting and the two young boys won my heart. It definitely showed the effects and strain on everyone in the family and even when things are somewhat resolved these effects still linger. The amazing thing about this novel is that there is still humor and plenty of love, touching moments and though the novel ended in a way I wish it hadn't, the ending was real not sugar coated for a happy ending. Will definitely read more by this author. ...more Mistry transports us into the life of a struggling Parsi couple in Mumbai/Bombay. It is full of pathos and realism. His language graphically conjures up the characters, a tiny apartment, the marital tensions, the feelings of two young boys, the stresses of trying to cope with too little money and a naive employer, and particularly the deterioration in the health of the grandfather. Nariman Vakeel is a 79 year old widower forces by circumstances and parents to reject his true love and marry withi Mistry transports us into the life of a struggling Parsi couple in Mumbai/Bombay. It is full of pathos and realism. His language graphically conjures up the characters, a tiny apartment, the marital tensions, the feelings of two young boys, the stresses of trying to cope with too little money and a naive employer, and particularly the deterioration in the health of the grandfather. Nariman Vakeel is a 79 year old widower forces by circumstances and parents to reject his true love and marry within the Parsi community. The story portrays his sad memories and the difficulties of living in a deteriorating apartment with his two now middle-aged stepchildren; one bitter and vindictive, the other pliable and mild-mannered. When a fall breaks his ankle, his bitter and domineering stepdaughter, Coomy, plots to transfer Nariman to the care of Roxana, his sweet-tempered daughter in their postage-stamp apartment. His arrival and deterioration threaten to destroy the harmony between Roxanna and her husband Yezad. In this setting the empathy of their youngest son, Jehangir, rises to the surface. Mistry succeeds in creating a microcosm of Mumbai, old Bombay. The streets. The various characters in the apartment where the principal characters live. The school life of the two young boys. The strictures of the Parsi/Zoroastrian community and their worship. The miserable result of becoming ultra-relgious. The suffering of a bed-ridden senior taken care of by his family, a family that cannot afford help. The uncertainty of life. Love lost and gained. The naivete of the more wealthy middle class in their treatment of their servants and employees. The book could be sub-titled: Life on the Edge in Bombay. ...more Rating: 4.5/5 This book is not surprisingly about a family. More specifically, it follows three generations of a Parsi family living in modern Mumbai (formerly Bombay). As the grandfather of the family, Nariman is likely the best candidate to be declared the main character of this novel, but it is truly and ensemble cast, with Nariman's step children Jal and Coomy, his daugther and son-in-law Roxanna and Yezda and his grandchildren Janghela and Murad all playing important roles. This is an exquisi Rating: 4.5/5 This book is not surprisingly about a family. More specifically, it follows three generations of a Parsi family living in modern Mumbai (formerly Bombay). As the grandfather of the family, Nariman is likely the best candidate to be declared the main character of this novel, but it is truly and ensemble cast, with Nariman's step children Jal and Coomy, his daugther and son-in-law Roxanna and Yezda and his grandchildren Janghela and Murad all playing important roles. This is an exquisite novel. It reads as though no word is wasted. This is clear when considering the title alone - Family Matters; a story about the goings on relevant to a family, as well as a declaration of the incredible importance of family. It is about family matters and why family matters. It should be said up front that like other Mistry novels this is not an obviously uplifting tale. What it is an honest exploration of family life. This novel is an intricate weaving of themes too numerous to discus in great detail. However, among the most important is aging, and the great burden and gift that time bestows upon a family. With this theme as the major vehicle, we are exposed to a full spectrum of family relationships: a father and his children (some of them step children), a grandfather and his grandchildren, siblings, step-siblings, a man and wife, a mother and her children. The novel begins with Nariman as an old man, suffering from the early stages of Parkinsons disease. Quickly the crisis of the novel occurs as Nariman suffers an accident, rendering him immobile. ...more Just arrived from Israel through BM. This is the first book written by Rohinton Mistry that I've read and I really liked it. The story is about the family of Nariman Vakeel, a 79 year old Parsi widower who suffers from Parkinson's disease. To worsen his physical health, he ends breaking his ankle, getting unable thus of getting around. Even living with his step-children, Coomy and Jal, they weren't able to take good care of their father. By forcing the circumstances, Nariman is forced to move to th Just arrived from Israel through BM. This is the first book written by Rohinton Mistry that I've read and I really liked it. The story is about the family of Nariman Vakeel, a 79 year old Parsi widower who suffers from Parkinson's disease. To worsen his physical health, he ends breaking his ankle, getting unable thus of getting around. Even living with his step-children, Coomy and Jal, they weren't able to take good care of their father. By forcing the circumstances, Nariman is forced to move to the flat of his younger daughter Roxanna and her family in a very tight apartment. By consequence, Roxanna's family will face with new challenges, from economical point of view and her children's education as well. Some religious and social issues are raised by the author along the narrative, specially concerning the Parsi's heritage after the Partition of India. A very realistic story written by some sense of humor. In any case, a magnificent and unforgettable book. Now, I must read A Fine Balance. ...more Took me a while to get into this one -- but once I was in, it was quite a remarkable read. Mistry spins a tale about Bombay through the story of one family undergoing dramatic yet completely plausible, at times quiet, ordinary events. Mistry is not trying to wow anyone through crash-boom-bang events, yet even in its subtlety this story had a Shakespearean sense of tragedy and betrayal and loss -- not just for the family, but for a city whose beauty and vibrance was contantly underscored by corru Took me a while to get into this one -- but once I was in, it was quite a remarkable read. Mistry spins a tale about Bombay through the story of one family undergoing dramatic yet completely plausible, at times quiet, ordinary events. Mistry is not trying to wow anyone through crash-boom-bang events, yet even in its subtlety this story had a Shakespearean sense of tragedy and betrayal and loss -- not just for the family, but for a city whose beauty and vibrance was contantly underscored by corruption, violence and intolerance. And as usual, with any story written by an Indian immigrant, I read the story personally -- ultimately, this was a tribute to a city from the eyes of one far away from it, revealed through distinct memories and descriptions of photographs and references to Hindi songs and idioms, and charatcers highlighting its chaotic blend of creed and religion and class. Many tears were shed reading this one, as Bombay was my own home for 5 years, a city which I love dearly, though perhaps my love has more to do with my memories of it than with the present city itself, one from which now I am now so far removed. ...more beautiful, beautiful and again - beautiful. what an amazing book !! 'a fine balance' by the same author is also on my top list, and i'm so glad this one made it there as well. i simply don't have enough words to explain this book ... just read it ... now ... :) There is more to the title than first meets the eye. Is it family MATTERS? Or is it FAMILY matters? The meaning of \u201cmatters\u201d evolves as the story progresses. Mistry discusses this, and much more, in a 51 minute interview for WAMU, on Sept. 30, 2002. http://thedianerehmshow.org/shows/200... That interview was part of the book tour that, unfortunately, occurred too soon after 9-11. According to a November 3, 2002 BBC report: \u201cCanadian author, Rohinton Mistry, has cancelled the second half of his US There is more to the title than first meets the eye. Is it family MATTERS? Or is it FAMILY matters? The meaning of \u201cmatters\u201d evolves as the story progresses. Mistry discusses this, and much more, in a 51 minute interview for WAMU, on Sept. 30, 2002. http://thedianerehmshow.org/shows/200... That interview was part of the book tour that, unfortunately, occurred too soon after 9-11. According to a November 3, 2002 BBC report: \u201cCanadian author, Rohinton Mistry, has cancelled the second half of his US book tour because of racial profiling at US airports. \u2026 As a person of colour he was stopped repeatedly and rudely at each airport along the way - to the point where the humiliation of both he and his wife has become unbearable,\" a memo from the writer's US publisher Aflred A Knopf said.\u201d http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainm... Enough about the title, how was the book? I loved it. The characters, dialog, and plot structure are worthy of Tennessee Williams. I totally forget some books as soon as they are finished. I\u2019ll remember Family Matters for a long time. Parts of this book were experienced while traveling through Rajasthan, India. ...more It was like reading a play with the characters performing so well. The characters like the letter-writer,shop owner, violinist, gambler were very unique though playing the supporting cast were quite unique and lovable too. Sad that I was ignorant about this Indian author. Really loved reading this book. A very slow novel that contain heart-felt moments and funny little devious schemes. Thia book, as I found out through my English teacher, has deeper meaning than just family. WHY CAN'T SOMETHING JUST BE SIMPLE. WHY MUST I OVER-ANALYSE THIS? It's a classic Rohinton Mistry, nobody expects the man to paint happy little rainbows, but melancholia seeps through the pages of Family Matters. In some ways, it's reminiscent of A Fine Balance, the manner in which characters are affected by events larger than themselves, but manage to trudge along until Mistry decides, in one fell swoop, to unleash all the horrors of hell upon them. In other ways, it's more like Such A Long Journey, with its focus on familial affairs and a (relative) tunnel vi It's a classic Rohinton Mistry, nobody expects the man to paint happy little rainbows, but melancholia seeps through the pages of Family Matters. In some ways, it's reminiscent of A Fine Balance, the manner in which characters are affected by events larger than themselves, but manage to trudge along until Mistry decides, in one fell swoop, to unleash all the horrors of hell upon them. In other ways, it's more like Such A Long Journey, with its focus on familial affairs and a (relative) tunnel vision view of Nariman Vakeel's family, as opposed to the panoramic bird's eye that is revealed in A Fine Balance. But Family Matters is also, in a way, unique. While there are political undertones to the book,quite definitely, two major themes being the orthodox v reform debate within the Parsi community, and communalism in Bombay following the Babri riots, and while these events materially and directly affect the lives of the protagonists, the spotlight is, to a much greater degree, on the characters themselves and their relationship with each other. And Rohinton Mistry really is one of the finest writers I've ever had the privilege of coming across. I don't know how he does it. More so than any of his previous books I think (which all have their own strengths) characters truly come to life in Family Matters. ...more This is a big fat Dickensian story set in India. Unfortunately, I seem to have lost my taste for big fat Dickensian stories. I enjoyed the book, but not excessively. What I found most interesting was the insight into family life, attitudes and restrictions. And how much American pop culture has infiltrated India. It was interesting to see how they hopped back and forth between English and various Indian languages. The book would have benefited from a glossary, though. If I had known what some of This is a big fat Dickensian story set in India. Unfortunately, I seem to have lost my taste for big fat Dickensian stories. I enjoyed the book, but not excessively. What I found most interesting was the insight into family life, attitudes and restrictions. And how much American pop culture has infiltrated India. It was interesting to see how they hopped back and forth between English and various Indian languages. The book would have benefited from a glossary, though. If I had known what some of the foreign language words meant I\u2019m sure it would have added depth to my reading experience. ...more After all, what is happiness? And how much can houses contain them? How is it that houses that have growing children are so lively and the moment they end up teenagers the balance shifts to uneasiness? What about happiness in houses that have sick elderly and them having to be put up with and taken care of? How you can perceive the same situation with love, with adventure and growing despair & turn to religion based on what you are: a child, a loving daughter or the person struggling to hold After all, what is happiness? And how much can houses contain them? How is it that houses that have growing children are so lively and the moment they end up teenagers the balance shifts to uneasiness? What about happiness in houses that have sick elderly and them having to be put up with and taken care of? How you can perceive the same situation with love, with adventure and growing despair & turn to religion based on what you are: a child, a loving daughter or the person struggling to hold it all together by providing for all? Mistry has his penchant for the dramatic moment, many that he suppressed to keep the narrative straight, to not lay on the emotions. Yes, his stories are never short of shamelessly plugging the emotions, he even adds in a soundtrack for good measure. But he held back, trying to do an Ozu instead of a Sivaji Ganesan. In Family Matters, he's far more confident of his tropes, and he cuts loose. People remembering long forgotten promises, twists to the tale that keep happening till the last minute in a vague backstory that you don't think he's that interested in. In some ways this is also his attempt at something bigger than he's tried before, a more confident writer than the one who tried telling stories he wanted to tell. At many points the story seems to come apart as he tries to weave in the Shiv Sena, and other myriad things, just because of his need to have a political background. A Fine Balance was about the Emergency, Such a Long Journey was about the 1971 war. This one is about the Mumbai'ing of his beloved Bombay. There is the start with Nariman's falling down and hurting his ankle and setting off a series of events he has no control over. That house he lives in which seems to need one unhappy person, and the other house where his daughter lives which is almost a carbon copy of Gustad's house with its share of domestic squabbles but the happiness & liveliness that inhabits houses with children. Somehow, Nariman ends up going deeper and deeper into the background, someone who's medicines need to be afforded, someone who has lost his voice when we get to him later. He rules the first half with his background stories and current plight and then Yezad, his son-in-law, takes over with his own stories. There really isn't much here, the usual bungling of fate and destiny and being washed along with it before ending up in a state which is mostly a checkpoint to see people living. For once, Mistry finishes with a note almost like its a horror story. While writing this review I switched between 3 and 4 stars multiple times. It has its moments, a Mistry work always has its moments - he gets the idea of growing up and growing old while kicking and screaming all the time about wanting to return to childhood, or to that one love when one is old, maybe. I wondered how Yezaad was besot by his childhood while Nariman was not. But then maybe he had his bigger ghosts to put behind. I could not decide, so am saying 3.5 which GR doesn't have. But that hardly matters, does it? Like all his books, however flawed, this will also stay. ...more I want to like this book. I remember reading A Fine Balance and being moved by it. I thought it was somewhat melodramatic and that while some of the characters were interesting, many seemed one dimensional, particularly the \"bad\" guys. Both things feel particularly true about this book so far. Nariman is the aging patriarch of the family, Jal and Coomy's step father. He's salt of the earth. You get that from the first page. And Jal and Coomy are not nice. Ungrateful wretches. When Nariman, who h I want to like this book. I remember reading A Fine Balance and being moved by it. I thought it was somewhat melodramatic and that while some of the characters were interesting, many seemed one dimensional, particularly the \"bad\" guys. Both things feel particularly true about this book so far. Nariman is the aging patriarch of the family, Jal and Coomy's step father. He's salt of the earth. You get that from the first page. And Jal and Coomy are not nice. Ungrateful wretches. When Nariman, who has Parkinsons but still wants to go walking, because the bustling life where the flower vendors and fruit and vegetable stalls are located was \"like air for starving lungs, after the stale emptiness of the flat.\" Nariman falls. Of course. And when he returns, his step-children make their pronouncements: \"One thing is certain,\" said Coomy, \"From now on you will not go out.\" \"I agree,\" said Jal. These two don't get much deeper or more complicated as the night unfolds. One reader said that the book reminds her of Dickens. Perhaps she's right. It has a cast of thousands, and is thick with melodrama. Even the local color rubs me the wrong way. While the author doesn't explain every detail of Indian life, I did feel as though I were being instructed in the facts of life in Bombay on every single page. The language too feels extreme. Nariman's grandson, Jehangir, grabs his grandfather's chin. It is part of a ritual Nariman engages in with his grandsons. \"The special greeting had evolved a few years ago when he had affectionately grabbed the boys' chins, and they had grabbed his right back...they had explored other features of their grandfather's physiognomy and found that his glabrous pate, hard and smooth and shiny, sang a delicious counterpoint to the jujube chin.\" I'm sorry. I'm not enchanted with the language. \"glabrous\"? \"jujube\"? Please no more. So I tried again because I like so many of the people on the Constant Reader site and so many of these people read and loved Family Matters. But Jal and Coomy continue to be cartoon characters. They collect toys, wind-up toys, an Elvis doll, and they store the in a cabinet behind a glass door. The two young nephews are not alloed to play with the toys. They do anyway, and Coomy freaks out. She is so beyond belief mean and childish. She's not going to change. I love the short story I read this morning for another Constant Reader discussion. I'd rather go read that again than read any more of this. ...more Rohinton Mistry\u2019s account of a family in Bombay is lush, intimate and punctuated by the small and large moral choices that face humans daily. There is a family history that governs the tensions and grudges of the living, who can\u2019t know the whole story of what came before. In the patient unfolding of that history, we see parallels and breaks with the past. Mistry\u2019s writing is gorgeous: \u201cAnd then it struck her like a revelation \u2013 of what, she could not say. Hidden by the screen of damp clothes, she Rohinton Mistry\u2019s account of a family in Bombay is lush, intimate and punctuated by the small and large moral choices that face humans daily. There is a family history that governs the tensions and grudges of the living, who can\u2019t know the whole story of what came before. In the patient unfolding of that history, we see parallels and breaks with the past. Mistry\u2019s writing is gorgeous: \u201cAnd then it struck her like a revelation \u2013 of what, she could not say. Hidden by the screen of damp clothes, she watched, clutching Yezad\u2019s shirt in her hands. She felt she was witnessing something almost sacred, and her eyes refused to relinquish the precious moment, for she knew instinctively that it would become a memory to cherish, to recall in difficult times when she needed strength. \u201cJehangir filled the spoon again and raised it to his grandfather\u2019s lips. A grain of rice strayed, lingering at the corner of his mouth. Jehangir took the napkin to gently retrieve it before it fell. \u201cAnd for a brief instant, Roxana felt she understood the meaning of it all, of birth and life and death.\u201d \u201cNow the dustoorji was ready to serve the fire. Expertly he tended the glowing embers, and flames began to lick at the tongs, growing to the soft murmur of prayers as he added the sandalwood collected from the tray. \u201cAnd there, thought Yezad, with the rest, was his five-rupee piece as well, with all the other sticks carried here by hands like his. Which part of the fire, which tongue of flame was fed by his offering? Was the fire divisible in that way? Did it matter?\u201d \u201cWhat folly made young people, even those in middle age, think they were immortal? How much better, their lives, if they could remember the end. Carrying your death with you every day would make it hard to waste time on unkindness and anger and bitterness, on anything petty. That was the secret: remembering your dying time, in order to keep the stupid and the ugly out of your living time. \u201c\u2026Curious, he thought, how, if you knew a person long enough, he could elicit every kind of emotion from you, every possible reaction, envy, admiration, pity, irritation, fury, fondness, jealousy, love, disgust. But in the end all human beings became candidates for compassion \u2026 and if we could recognize this from the beginning, what a savings in pain and grief and misery.\u201d The epilogue strikes me as superfluous. It detracts from what comes before. ...more I love India. I absolutely love India. Every facet of it. If reincarnation exists, then there is something in my soul that says this very pale creature born and raised in the Midwest, in another life lived in India. Have I ever been to India? God, no! I'm poor. I spend all my money on books. Though someday, I do hope to travel there. Everyone has dreams. Mistry delves into a cultural/familial debacle right from the start of this book, who cares for an ailing parent? In modern Bombay, as many Asia I love India. I absolutely love India. Every facet of it. If reincarnation exists, then there is something in my soul that says this very pale creature born and raised in the Midwest, in another life lived in India. Have I ever been to India? God, no! I'm poor. I spend all my money on books. Though someday, I do hope to travel there. Everyone has dreams. Mistry delves into a cultural/familial debacle right from the start of this book, who cares for an ailing parent? In modern Bombay, as many Asian countries, a trend has been documented. That trend is that children no longer want or feel obligated to care for their ailing parents. They are doing exactly what us horrid Americans do. They push the parent off on other siblings, put the parent in a care facility, anything other than bring the parent into their home. Now, don't get me wrong, I will go on record - I am a horrid person. I can barely spend five minutes with my mother. And I haven't seen my father in two decades. I'm not going to be the child who cares for a parent. I'm horrid - I accept it. The main character, Nariman Vakeel suffers from Parkinson's disease and while out on a walk (when he is not suppose to be walking alone) falls and breaks his ankle. He becomes unable to care for himself and this situation puts his children into a torrent of pushing about their father. Nariman ends up in his youngest daughters' home. A poor family of four. Despite their poverty, they make room for Nariman. The entire family cares for him. Perhaps not so much Roxana's husband who has no desire to help Nairman pee or use the bed pan. Once Nariman enters his daughter's home the plot moves more towards her life. And not only are you exposed to the adversity of Nariman you are also shown this family and their secrets and their struggles. Mistry constructs an interesting series of plots and subplots. Each theme was very interesting to me. He works his way from the oldest member of the family down to the youngest. As I closed the book, I felt my love for India had grown more. I was also left thinking about families and aging. It left me in meditation for a few days. ...more My opinion changed almost by the page on this one. Let's start with the good: I found the portrayal of familial relationships, particularly the mixture of resentment and love and disgust and patience with their bedridden grandfather, to be very moving and authentic. The relationships between Jehangir and Nariman (grandson-grandfather), Roxana and Nariman (father-daughter), Roxana and Yezad (husband-wife), Murad and Jehangir (brothers), Jal and Coomy (siblings), Coomy and Nariman (step-daughter/s My opinion changed almost by the page on this one. Let's start with the good: I found the portrayal of familial relationships, particularly the mixture of resentment and love and disgust and patience with their bedridden grandfather, to be very moving and authentic. The relationships between Jehangir and Nariman (grandson-grandfather), Roxana and Nariman (father-daughter), Roxana and Yezad (husband-wife), Murad and Jehangir (brothers), Jal and Coomy (siblings), Coomy and Nariman (step-daughter/step-father) all felt realistically layered and complex and managed to represent family relationships over time and not as a static fact. I enjoyed learning a bit about present-day Indian politics and society, and even liked it wasn't written to educate a Western audience, but just assumed that you would get the multicultural references. With a very quiet, understated writing style he managed to create a full and emotional portrait of family life as it intersects with politics and religion and personal history. I had a lot of issues with the execution though. I really wished he would have stopped writing each scene just one sentence sooner as he has this stupid tendency to punctuate a nice paragraph with a really obvious summarizing sentence to the effect of \"Jehangir was sad and hoped his parents wouldn't split up.\" It killed the subtlety of his writing, and he did it so often! And he was so good at subtlety otherwise! Also, it was so long and moved so slowly and all these interesting developments happened at the end, and I would have loved much more time spent on Mr. Kapur's death and Yezad's religious epiphany and the consequences of that for the family. It felt very rushed at the end and introduced so many new threads that could have been explored along the way. And lastly, some of the dramatic flourishes (all the parts with Lucy, especially falling to her death along with Yasmin) just felt so absurd and melodramatic and at the same time low-stakes because there was absolutely no incentive to care about the Nariman-Lucy relationship. ...more Like any relationship, family takes a lot of work and and naturing. Sometimes it's loving, sometimes it's dysfunctional. But, good or bad, you only have one family. Family Matters tells a story of one middle-class family in Mumbai (Bombay), India. The grandfather, Nariman, suffers from Parkinson's disease. His two step-children, Coomy and Jal, live with him and are their caretakers. Roxana, Nariman's real daughter, lives a happy life with her husband, Yezad, and her two children, Murad and Jehang Like any relationship, family takes a lot of work and and naturing. Sometimes it's loving, sometimes it's dysfunctional. But, good or bad, you only have one family. Family Matters tells a story of one middle-class family in Mumbai (Bombay), India. The grandfather, Nariman, suffers from Parkinson's disease. His two step-children, Coomy and Jal, live with him and are their caretakers. Roxana, Nariman's real daughter, lives a happy life with her husband, Yezad, and her two children, Murad and Jehangir, in a small flat at Pleasant Villa. Coomy is blames Nariman for her mother's death and tries to get out of taking care of Nariman. She pushes the care-taking duty onto Roxana, putting a lot of stresses onto her family who is living in already tight quarter. The book started out rather slow and never really picked up the speed for me. While Mistry's story-telling wasn't really about the peaks-and-valleys, but his skills were quite superb. I really got to know the characters and their emotions and thinkings. It made me think of my own family and what I would do if I was to face the same situation. I was raised to believe that we take care of our family, but that's not an easy task especially if a member is incapable of taking care of her/himself. Family matters are usually complex, and they are guarantee to bring out a lot of emotions and history! ...more Some years ago I found myself collecting a rather appalling statistic. Women in India who are burned to death by their husbands, often in collusion with the mother of the husband. The preferred method is to douse the wife in petrol and then set alight. It generally does the trick, though unfortunately sometimes one ends up with a dreadfully disfigured wife who survives. The real eye-opening thing about this practice is that it is a middle-class commonplace. The woman burned to death may well have Some years ago I found myself collecting a rather appalling statistic. Women in India who are burned to death by their husbands, often in collusion with the mother of the husband. The preferred method is to douse the wife in petrol and then set alight. It generally does the trick, though unfortunately sometimes one ends up with a dreadfully disfigured wife who survives. The real eye-opening thing about this practice is that it is a middle-class commonplace. The woman burned to death may well have a university degree or two. In other words, there is nothing primitive about the attitude. It isn't backward uneducated people, it is people who might be perusing goodreads when not taking stock of their petrol supplies. Mistry's books do not deal with such horrors, but they do give an account of the ways in which middle-class urban life in India is mean and dispiriting and difficult. It sets the scene in which the wife-burnings take place. If you want an idea of what life is really like in India, given that we all in the West think it's about Bollywood, this is good place to start. ...more I read this book in just 2 days, it was so engrossing. Not as good as A Fine Balance, but still an illuminating look into the lives of Indians living a typical middle class life. Apart from the Indian focus, I just loved the detailed exploration of what it feels like to guide a close relative to death in your home, especially from the points of view of the two boys aged 9 and 12 (I think). The struggle to not resent a parent or in-law for needing care and suddenly being so helpless was presented I read this book in just 2 days, it was so engrossing. Not as good as A Fine Balance, but still an illuminating look into the lives of Indians living a typical middle class life. Apart from the Indian focus, I just loved the detailed exploration of what it feels like to guide a close relative to death in your home, especially from the points of view of the two boys aged 9 and 12 (I think). The struggle to not resent a parent or in-law for needing care and suddenly being so helpless was presented realistically and beautifully, with just touch of melancholy. It was interesting that there wasn't a main character per se, but 5-6 equally important \"main\" characters. The only character I had a problem with was Coomy, the bitter old maid. She seemed to be one-dimensional and I have a hard time believing that there wasn't just ONE redeeming quality for her character. I also was a little frustrated by the amount of Hindi used. At times, I could parse out the content, but I felt as though I was missing some important dialogue in some parts. ...more<---C>Rohinton Mistry</---C>", "Title": "Family Matters"},
