{"Comments": "Fantastic book. To quote the words of Arundhati Roy: \"The trouble is that once you see it, you can't unsee it. And once you've seen it,<---M> keeping quiet</---M>, saying nothing, becomes as political an act as speaking out.<---F> There's no innocence</---F>. Either way, you're accountable.\" Thanks for helping me see more clearly the true contours of the life we live. I guess I'm accountable now. I would call this an interesting but dangerous book. As opposed to other books in which every moment was a learning and enlightening enjoyment this book was exhaustingly tense because I found it to be a very confusing mix of dangerous (<---B>but plausible</---B>) ideas written in a smart way, and interesting historical or world data. So, I'll start the review with the negative things, and then move onto the positive ones: - the author seems to have a clear agenda, of attacking capitalism & free market ide I would call this an interesting but dangerous book. As opposed to other books in which every moment was a learning and enlightening enjoyment this book was exhaustingly tense because I found it to be a very confusing mix of dangerous (but plausible) ideas written in a smart way, and interesting historical or world data. So, I'll start the review with the negative things, and then move onto the positive ones: - the author seems to have a clear agenda, of attacking capitalism & free market ideas, and to this end he's willing to use what I would call disloyal weapons. I'm happy to hear of opposing ideas when they are argued logically and without resorting to trickery, but the author uses a large amount of mixed and confusing philosophical debate to confuse, and imposes language with moral undertones to push his arguments: for example in his attempt to vilify clear quantization of values as we do through currency he calls the non-monetary solution \"human economy\" (the other one must be inhuman, right?). Similarly he perverts the concept of familiar/church/friends sharing which I haven't heard any free market/capitalist people deny (on the contrary they seem to more often have healthier family & social relationships while their opponents like Marx have broken families, suicidal children and other tragedies), aaa, where was I? yes, he perverts these positive relationships by calling them \"comunistic\", thereby bringing their positive aura onto a social/political system that has caused millions of deaths and huge suffering... I find such trickery disloyal - from the title and description I had assumed the book would be largely filled with historical data, but mostly i had to endure philosophical bla-bla-bla and a particularly non-objective style of exposition - i call this a dangerous book because I know there are a lot of people out there with soft logic abilities, and less historical knowledge or analytic abilities, and they might be tricked by the book, so i would recommend the book only if you've read at least another 5 historical and economics books with a more analytic lean, be it from the ruthless logic of Rothbard & Mises or the historical facts of people such as Sowell - I liken the authors style and method to Marx because like him his goal is to attack capitalism (did you know that not capitalists but Marx coined the term with the purpose of attack?), and they are both very smart people with high entertainment value/intelectual writing and both spend a lot of time attacking something while then being unsurprisingly blank at proposing anything better in a consequent matter so that others can poke holes at their position too, instead they are positionless and thus can't be attacked themselves. Also the author seems very tricky in his attacks... does he mean to attack the system whereby people save first and then use those savings? does he propose that debt spending is better? does he think that nothing can/should be quantized and we should all remain in a primitive society style (yes, he searches a lot in history and present for obscure examples of tribes to argue his points, but doesn't seem to notice that maybe there's a reason those were left behind). Instead he seems to define capitalism as everything he can cherry pick through history and present day that is bad, which of course makes it very easy to argue against them. There are howerever good things in the book too: + while IMHO setting up straw many arguments and guilty parties he does seem to see some big problems, he sees how the system today will probably go through a historically recurrent reset of debt and maybe complexity + he dares to talk about subjects such as the American empire, the support it gets from countries with troops stationed in their territories, and such things + while with some biases he does bring forth very interesting historical data about debt & credit based system in the past + if you have the right historical and economics background, particularly if you are versed in hard money ways of thinking it may provide some interesting alternative points of view which should improve your perspective as to possibilities of not just where we have been but where we might be going Overall I'd say it was a useful addition to my mental library, but one filled with many logical, moral and ideological traps, which is why I wouldn't advise it to many people as I find the author to be brilliantly smart and subtle, and some of his propositions are expressed in such ways that few people will be able to uncover them, let alone respond and fight them. ...more Okay that's much better! Thanks for all the reviews I think of Goodreads stars as the following: 1, shouldn't have been published; 2, terrible; 3, pretty good; 4, really good; 5, everyone should read this (because it's eye-opening, incredibly skillful, and/or beautiful). Debt is a five-star book. Graeber's history encompasses not just history, but anthropology, sociology, psychology, philosophy, political science, economics, religious studies, and finance as he details the history and definition of \"debt.\" The conclusions he draws are--especially i I think of Goodreads stars as the following: 1, shouldn't have been published; 2, terrible; 3, pretty good; 4, really good; 5, everyone should read this (because it's eye-opening, incredibly skillful, and/or beautiful). Debt is a five-star book. Graeber's history encompasses not just history, but anthropology, sociology, psychology, philosophy, political science, economics, religious studies, and finance as he details the history and definition of \"debt.\" The conclusions he draws are--especially if you've ever taken an economics class, or, like me, gotten a degree in the subject--shocking and overwhelming. It's not an easy book to read: the subject is complex and the writing is much more challenging than the average pop sci book--this is not Freakonomics . As well, the sheer sweep of the book--and the author's tendency to jump from subject to subject and theory to theory--make this a bad book to read on an airplane, around children, or in small bites before bed. But if you can stick it out . . . well, your first reaction might be (like mine) to want to start reading it over again. Some of the questions Graeber answers in Debt include: What was the original meaning of the word \"freedom\"? Why were the Middle Ages of Europe just after the Black Plague one of the best times to be a worker, and what surprising reason brought that period to an end? When and why might paying cash for a meal have marked you as a government official or a criminal? Debt will change the way you see the world. I hope you read it--although I can't lend you my copy. I'm rereading it. ...more As a sociologist, I've been despairing of late at the paucity of imagination and theoretical innovation in social science research. Academics, perhaps because of the need to publish quickly and garner grant money, seem content to only add statistical validation to already established conclusions. Or, a la David Harvey, to regurgitate Marx with minor variation, with a focus solely on the neoliberal period, and in US/Eurocentric fashion. <+++>Debt: The First 5,000 Years</+++> redeems the social sciences. Not As a sociologist, I've been despairing of late at the paucity of imagination and theoretical innovation in social science research. Academics, perhaps because of the need to publish quickly and garner grant money, seem content to only add statistical validation to already established conclusions. Or, a la David Harvey, to regurgitate Marx with minor variation, with a focus solely on the neoliberal period, and in US/Eurocentric fashion. <+++>Debt: The First 5,000 Years</+++> redeems the social sciences. Not easily reduced to a brief summary, the book asks the questions: How has humanity--from the ancient cities of Mesopotamia to the current day--conceived of the idea of debt? How has the construction of debt been inextricably bound to economic, religious, political, and historical realities? And, finally, it asks a provocative philosophical question: Given the history of the social construction of debt, how do we in the current moment respond to our own alleged indebtedness? To answer these questions, Graeber embarks on the massive project of giving us a history of debt as a both a moral and economic concept, documenting in relentless and glorious detail how that concept changed through major periods of time (Ancient, Axial, Middle Ages, Early capitalist and current period)and amongst different societies (Islam vs. Christianity, etc.) In doing so, he shows conventional economic truisms for what they are: utter falsehoods. Exciting insights are also given into how people have resisted paying debts throughout history, this is not a passive story meant provoke sympathy. The last chapter on the current period (1970's--present) felt a little rushed and given the gravity and depth of the previous chapters, I think it could have used more of a drawing together of all of the many fascinating points made in the book. Graeber doesn't offer any concrete suggestions(neither did Marx, so this can be easily forgiven) other than a Jubilee, but I hope that he does lend his imaginative and analytic powers to praxis in the future. The read provides one not only with a new extraordinary depth of knowledge, but also stimulates new questions and hopefully will inspire other researches to continue following Graeber's lead. Lastly, it makes one think more humanistically about what our true debts are...a book everyone should explore numerous times. ...more In a word - brilliant. Just when I thought I understood all the false assumptions in modern economic theory, <---A>David Graeber</---A> uncovers yet another huge, unfounded assumption that economists discuss as if it's a matter of fact. I clearly remember sitting in my intro to macro class and hearing about how before there was money, people bartered and it was terribly inconvenient, then money was created and saved everybody. I guess it shouldn't be a surprise that yet another aspect of our economic theory In a word - brilliant. Just when I thought I understood all the false assumptions in modern economic theory, David Graeber uncovers yet another huge, unfounded assumption that economists discuss as if it's a matter of fact. I clearly remember sitting in my intro to macro class and hearing about how before there was money, people bartered and it was terribly inconvenient, then money was created and saved everybody. I guess it shouldn't be a surprise that yet another aspect of our economic theory is based on complete, make-believe, bullshit, demonstrating once again, that while real scientists study historical records and base their theories on evidence, economists base their theories on utopian fantasies. This book makes a lot of great points. Among them, that human history is full of examples of societies that were both stateless and marketless and that economists have ignored large parts of history where people shared resources. That unlike economists claim, measuring value and recording debts (virtual money) actually predates writing. That coinage and markets became necessary for the state to pay armies - that physical money wasn't necessary in the transactions that normally took place within a community, among people who knew and trusted each other, and only became necessary for impersonal transactions among strangers (and thieves). Thanks to this book, I understand why people are trying to create local currencies and new ways of measuring value (such as time banks). It was a truly eye-opening read and I can't recommend it enough. ...more I haven't finished reading yet, and I will try to write a more substantive review of this book once I've had time to wrap my head around the contents, but until such time has come, I would simply propose to consider this book the new answer to Douglas Adams's Ultimate Question of Life, The Universe, and Everything . If you've ever wondered whether there is a connection between -- to name just a few things -- simple social obligations, the invention of money, slavery, taxation, coinage, the disapp I haven't finished reading yet, and I will try to write a more substantive review of this book once I've had time to wrap my head around the contents, but until such time has come, I would simply propose to consider this book the new answer to Douglas Adams's Ultimate Question of Life, The Universe, and Everything . If you've ever wondered whether there is a connection between -- to name just a few things -- simple social obligations, the invention of money, slavery, taxation, coinage, the disappearance of honor societies, the possibility of (extended) wars, the rise and fall of the (West-)Roman empire, the relative stability of the Chinese empires, the emergence of the great world religions, and the current financial crisis, you might be interested in reading Debt . (For more, see e.g., this (shorter) or this (longer) interview with the author.) ...more Excellent book. A long-term, anthropological study of the history and the phenomenon of debt itself, and future implications. There's a lot going on here, and I'm too muddle to organize my thoughts and reactions into sentences yet, just transcribing my mental notes. Debt as a social phenomenon predates the idea of currency. There is a phenomenon of 'social' debt, which is not easily quantifiable. Can analyze the idea of debts/currency and markets separately. Attacks the neo-liberal tenet of 'the Excellent book. A long-term, anthropological study of the history and the phenomenon of debt itself, and future implications. There's a lot going on here, and I'm too muddle to organize my thoughts and reactions into sentences yet, just transcribing my mental notes. Debt as a social phenomenon predates the idea of currency. There is a phenomenon of 'social' debt, which is not easily quantifiable. Can analyze the idea of debts/currency and markets separately. Attacks the neo-liberal tenet of 'the barter economy', which existed before currency. Draws from Polanyi's ideas on the Market Society. 'Government non-intervention' as a contradiction in terms. Military-industrial-financial complex - link between need for capital backing to finance wars of conquest and economic power. Historical cycles of the meaning of debt and currency. Two eras of the rigid monetarization and submission to debt (800 BC to 600 AD, and 1450-1791), and one era of 'primordial' social debt, the Middle Ages. In 1971, when Nixon removed the US from the gold standard, this began a new era, but one that we're not quite sure what it means yet. Capital as stimulus of economic and technological change. Industrial Revolution, but what about massive fluctuations that led to our own crisis? Removal or entrenchment of economic with social factors. Computerized treatment of derivatives and debt. Financial conglomerates. Is debt as an idea inherently tied to the newer idea of wage-slavery? Author does describe the worst effects of harmful loaning practices, he does describe some of the better aspects too. Anthropological treatment of the whole. Nothing inevitable about our current relationship with debt. There is much still to be done. This is a profoundly interesting book. Although one may disagree with the assertions, read it anyways and have an argument with it. This is one of those books that shapes conversations and thoughts for decades. ...more This is a very thought-provoking analysis of the relationship between morality, debt, property, and money. Essentially, the author explores, through history and anthropology, the tension between the common beliefs that one should always pay one's debts and that to make a profit on lending money is wrong. In particular, this issue bears on our political unwillingness to change a situation where the vast majority of Americans will spend their lives paying off debts to a tiny minority who enjoy lud This is a very thought-provoking analysis of the relationship between morality, debt, property, and money. Essentially, the author explores, through history and anthropology, the tension between the common beliefs that one should always pay one's debts and that to make a profit on lending money is wrong. In particular, this issue bears on our political unwillingness to change a situation where the vast majority of Americans will spend their lives paying off debts to a tiny minority who enjoy ludicrous profits from the work of the majority. I can't judge the scholarship, but at times an editor's hand would have been useful to tighten things up (there is a glaring factual error regarding the founding of Apple Computers and I just came across two sequential paragraphs which repeated the same information in slightly different form). My only major caveat concerns the last chapter, which covers the past 40 years, in which the author reaches a slew of conclusions which are poorly supported by the text. I happen to agree with many of them, but I wish this part had been fleshed out by convincing arguments. Even if, as the Clash put it, the future is unwritten, many of us will need persuading about which possible verses should come next. ...more \u201cAs it turns out, we don't \"all\" have to pay our debts. Only some of us do.\u201d \u2015 David Graeber, Debt: The First 5,000 Years A fascinating exploration of debt, money, barter, and the credit systems used by man for thousands of years. Sure it has biases and like Capital in the Twenty-First Century is a bit too idealistic, but still -- wow -- an amazing read. While most economic books are still battling over the binary capitalism::socialism model, Graeber quietly flips both boats (or if not flips, roc \u201cAs it turns out, we don't \"all\" have to pay our debts. Only some of us do.\u201d \u2015 David Graeber, Debt: The First 5,000 Years A fascinating exploration of debt, money, barter, and the credit systems used by man for thousands of years. Sure it has biases and like Capital in the Twenty-First Century is a bit too idealistic, but still -- wow -- an amazing read. While most economic books are still battling over the binary capitalism::socialism model, Graeber quietly flips both boats (or if not flips, rocks both boats HARD). I mean really, when was the last time my wife let me read to her about social and economic transactions? Answer: Never. She has NEVER, EVER before let me read to her about money or debt or interest rates or the buying and selling of goods. This was an early rule in our marriage. It was practically a sacred cow, a promise made with a flesh-debt. We even broke bread sticks over it (I still have my stale tally). We kept our bargain, till this book, till last night. THAT is how good it is. Anyway, go ahead read it in bed. Read it to your wife -- in bed. If you are really equals she will tell you after a few minutes whether she is in your debt, or you are in hers. And, that's OK. We are all debtors anyway. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ...more It's not often that one reads a book on political economy that is as thrilling to read as a detective novel, but Graeber's Debt is just such a book. Perhaps because he is an anthropologist, not an economist, he is able to take on a seemingly boring and pedestrian topic, and write an eye-opening book which addresses the origins of the current crisis of capitalism. Graeber's theme is a simple one. What makes us human is our relationship with others, starting with our mothers, then family and then t It's not often that one reads a book on political economy that is as thrilling to read as a detective novel, but Graeber's Debt is just such a book. Perhaps because he is an anthropologist, not an economist, he is able to take on a seemingly boring and pedestrian topic, and write an eye-opening book which addresses the origins of the current crisis of capitalism. Graeber's theme is a simple one. What makes us human is our relationship with others, starting with our mothers, then family and then tribe. Left to ourselves human beings would organize co-operatively and naturally share with each other the fruits of our labor. The goal in our life is to enjoy human interactions. Over the course of 5000 years, this form of natural relationship has become completely distorted. We now see our life goal as to be producers/ consumers whose function is to exploit the world. We base human relationships on cold calculations of gain and loss, credit and debit. Since such a world view (often referred to as 'capitalism') thwarts our basic nature, Graeber provides an anthropological/ historical survey of how the world ended up where it is today. His central thesis is that our current view of how society ought to be organized, can only have been created and maintained by violence. War, which rips apart all human relations, and removes individuals from their web of connections, is what allows us to place financial value on another human, as opposed to the inherent idea that every human is invaluable. When summarized in this way, Graeber's thesis may sound simplistic and reductionist. But while his basic thesis IS a simple one, what makes the book brilliant is the depth of research and intelligent analysis that supports his argument and gives it depth and richness. By providing an overview of the concept of debt across 5000 years of history and ranging over many cultures across geography and time, Graeber convincingly makes his radical arguments seem almost self evident. There are times, of course, where Graeber's ideas do come close to being reductionist, despite the vast wealth of well documented data he provides (and yes, read the footnotes too! Lot's of interesting details are contained therein). For example, in trying to contrast the \"non-imperial\" Medieval era to its predecessor the \"imperial Axial\" age, he leaves out a discussion of counter examples like the Mongols & the Turks. Similarly since one of his main goals in the book is to provoke people out of their conventional thinking, on more than one occasion he exaggerates to make a point. For example, while Medieval Islam has much to be admired, I am not convinced it was as much the anarchistic market system that Graeber tries to argue it was, nor, for related reasons, should one expect brilliant economic insights to come out of modern day Islamism. But Graeber is both too intelligent and too much the academician (in a positive sense) to fall into the trap of becoming a propagandist. He duly notes what he leaves out and acknowledges when his arguments are unconventional. And he always indicates that he may be over emphasizing some point precisely because it is too often ignored or trivialized. A while back in a review of Rushkoff's awful book which covered similar themes, I lamented that there was not yet a contemporary book that provided a coherent criticism of modern day capitalism. Sure Marx still has much to teach us, but so much has changed since Das Kapital was written, and Marx' alternative system has proven itself a dismal failure. Graeber's has now provided us with just such a book - a compelling, provocative critique of financial capitalism and neoliberalism. And his call to action is neither another utopian vision nor a feel-good New Age trope. Rather, by surveying the rich and varied approaches to organizing societies over the past 5000 years, Graeber gives us tools to help us begin to re-imagine a better future for humanity. ...more This book led me to re-think some of the fundamental aspects I have always thought our modern society is based upon: the basis of the current monetary system, market economies, the illusion of barter markets and most fundamentaly the way that debt is intertwined into the fabric of human interaction. Overall this is pleasant read, as an overview of market and monetary history from an anthropological perspective. The book starts to lag in sections where the author tries to apply his own solutions t This book led me to re-think some of the fundamental aspects I have always thought our modern society is based upon: the basis of the current monetary system, market economies, the illusion of barter markets and most fundamentaly the way that debt is intertwined into the fabric of human interaction. Overall this is pleasant read, as an overview of market and monetary history from an anthropological perspective. The book starts to lag in sections where the author tries to apply his own solutions to the problems at hand, although I agree that love and trust are a good basis for personal interaction and will always have to be present, I do not think that they alone are able to create a system that is capable of organizing the global society on it's current scale. There are certain thoughts peppered throughout this book that the author does not do justice from my perspective and could have larger implications in long run: means of annulling debt - the proposed global pardon on debt seems to be much too intrusive for any dynamic system, but the same objective could be achieved through the introduction of materialistic rules, that are globally applicable. The inescapable fact the interest baring loans have been almost fully divulged from the risk inherent in the financed projects and repayment is taken for granted(as if no risk was associated). No solution whatsoever is proposed for the current divide in the real growth of productivity per person and stagnation of real world wages, this in turn results in the current upheaval we are experiencing where the top 10% get all the profits(see http://www.businessinsider.com/here-a... ) ...more Back to the Future of Credit Despite its title this book is really a deconstruction of the idea of money. The economist's idea is that credit (loans, cash advances etc.) arises in a well-developed monetary or 'cash on the barrel head' society which in turn had been an improvement on the previous system of barter. Not so says Graeber and rather convincingly: credit, or more precisely the ledger of who owes what to whom, is the most primitive form of commerce which is only supplemented by either b Back to the Future of Credit Despite its title this book is really a deconstruction of the idea of money. The economist's idea is that credit (loans, cash advances etc.) arises in a well-developed monetary or 'cash on the barrel head' society which in turn had been an improvement on the previous system of barter. Not so says Graeber and rather convincingly: credit, or more precisely the ledger of who owes what to whom, is the most primitive form of commerce which is only supplemented by either barter or immediate monetary exchange when social conditions deteriorate sufficiently to make credit arrangements impossible. Wars, revolutions, and various social upheavals are what cause the demand for cash, that is, the immediate settlement of commercial transactions. Cash only becomes king when there is no trust, either between parties to a transaction or in the stability of the social environment. Credit in a very practical sense is the fundamental invention and promoter of civilisation. Graeber's thesis is in fact confirmed by recent technological developments like Bitcoin. Bitcoin is in its simplest terms 'merely' an unfalsifiable ledger of who has 'rights' in the community and how much, essentially what members of the community are worth to each other. The Bitcoin ledger differs from bank accounts because (among other things) it cannot be interfered with either by criminals or governments. In other words the ledger can be trusted even when its members have no personal knowledge of each other. The social system is its own guarantor. If only Immanuel Kant (not to mention Leibniz) were alive to see it! He spent his life trying to find a way to guarantee the integrity of life's accounts, in every sense of the word. Double-entry bookkeeping was a start but not enough to warrant complete trust. With modern technology it looks as if we might be able to create enough trust to return to the most efficient commercial system possible: pure credit. Without the need for banks or their regulators. Or for that matter, their scams and frauds. Fascinating, provocative and stimulating. If you have an interest in uncovering the myths of economics and how those myths become part of what you then see in the world, this is a must read. ----------------- An Addendum This article appeared in my feed today. It is yet further support for Graeber's position and the superiority of an unmediated credit economy: https://www.commonwealmagazine.org/in... ...more This might be the most important book you read this decade. Graeber ask what the phrase \"You have to pay your debts\" really means, and his answer involves a looping historical, anthropological, linguistic, and philosophical inquiry into the nature of currency, coinage, and capitalism. As Graeber notes, the standard economic story of the development of coinage: that bartering diverse good (potatoes for shoes for sheep for shovels) was so inconvenient that people developed cash to be more efficient This might be the most important book you read this decade. Graeber ask what the phrase \"You have to pay your debts\" really means, and his answer involves a looping historical, anthropological, linguistic, and philosophical inquiry into the nature of currency, coinage, and capitalism. As Graeber notes, the standard economic story of the development of coinage: that bartering diverse good (potatoes for shoes for sheep for shovels) was so inconvenient that people developed cash to be more efficient, has no evidence of support. Rather, indigenous societies tend to work on principles of mutual solidarity within the group. Everybody is bound together in a complex web of minor debts and obligations, the cancellation of which is the same as the end of the relationship. Currency in these 'human economies' is used to arrange marriages and compensate for murders. Their purpose is not that human beings can be bought, but precisely to point out how unique each human life is. On top of this primordial communism, Graeber recognizes two harmful phenomenon. Debt peonage, caused by ever escalating interest on loans, reduces free citizens to slaves, prompting rebelling and escape from urban agricultural centers. Coinage, precious metal currency, is wealth stripped of all its context, anonymous money for strangers of little trust. Together, they lead to what Graeber describes as the 'military-slavery-coinage complex', the use of force to seize human beings, rip them away from their homes, set them to working mines and plantations, and turn the money into coins to pay the army to continue the war. Combine the two, and you get the most rapacious form of modern capitalism: debt-laden soldiers trying to reduce everything around them to hard currency as fast as they can. The philosophical and linguistic sections are if anything, better than the history and the anthropology. Almost all of our modern philosophies originate in questions about what money measures, what the universe is made of, and the paradox of ethical action and self-interest. Graeber's arguments are more complex than what I've presented her. I'm sure that there are other interpretations to the history he has chosen. But he's asking The Big Questions, and one that cuts at the heart of our current crisis of faith. ...more I had a difficult time slogging through Debt. It shares a similar problem with Niall Fergeson's completely unreadable \"the Ascent of Money:\" it mixes in the author's politics and political leanings with history to give everything this weird political sheen (in this case left to Fergeson's right.) In this case, Graeber's book covers more facts than political lecturing but it's bumped several stars for being overt. However, Debt is a worthy read for anyone interested in the span of history from ear I had a difficult time slogging through Debt. It shares a similar problem with Niall Fergeson's completely unreadable \"the Ascent of Money:\" it mixes in the author's politics and political leanings with history to give everything this weird political sheen (in this case left to Fergeson's right.) In this case, Graeber's book covers more facts than political lecturing but it's bumped several stars for being overt. However, Debt is a worthy read for anyone interested in the span of history from early Sumerian - Middle Ages. The sections on Babylonian debt-based society and the Roman slave society are especially strong; the entire chapter on the Axial Age and the move to coinage over debt to pay for mercenaries is good and solid read full of meaty \"stuff.\" The effect of the fall of the Roman Empire on the coinage left in circulation and how that contributed to the Dark Ages while the smaller communities returned to earlier debt and borrow strategies is also good. I liked the breakdown on how debt goes back to wife trading and wife purchasing with cows as demonstrated in Africa and moving from that to a more generalized market -- the first people to ever price physical objects were, of course, thieves who needed to sell them for other things. And the most precious commodity is a human being. Debt falls down in the Islam chapter and the China chapter, both which feel thin and full of conjecture. China has a big piece to play in the Cortez-dumping-silver-on-the-European-economy section but otherwise, it's glossed over. The chapter on the rise of Islam and the role it plays is dry and nearly unreadable. What I want to say about Debt is to skip the boring parts and read the interesting ones. Skipping to halfway through the book to the Axial Age chapter is a good strategy. Skip everything after the Middle Ages -- Graeber hardly has interest in things like 18th century stock bubbles (although mentioned) and the rise of the East India Company. Saying, \"Yeah this is a great book on ROME!\" is good. Saying, \"This is a great book on the history of monetary policy!\" is not. It's an okay introduction to the genesis of debt, a great discussion about ancient and near-ancient monetary policy, and a fairly terrible one on the modern day. Not a waste of time, but not 5 stars either. A good 3.5 star book. ...more First half 5 stars, second half 3 stars. When I was in the 5th grade, we had a social studies unit centered around a book called Life On Paradise Island. It was a cartoonish book that told the tale of how a modern economy is developed. It started with the islanders trading coconuts for fish. Of course things got complicated when the coconut guy didn't need or want fish, but he wanted a hut built and the hut builder wanted something else. Eventually a stone currency was developed and it made tradi First half 5 stars, second half 3 stars. When I was in the 5th grade, we had a social studies unit centered around a book called Life On Paradise Island. It was a cartoonish book that told the tale of how a modern economy is developed. It started with the islanders trading coconuts for fish. Of course things got complicated when the coconut guy didn't need or want fish, but he wanted a hut built and the hut builder wanted something else. Eventually a stone currency was developed and it made trading so much easier and lead to thing like inter-island trade, unions, recessions, and even war. The whole thing was supposed to be a microcosm of how an economy works, and I must say that it left an impression on me since I still remember it. The whole premise is that barter leads to the concept of money and once you have money, all sorts of things can happen. Turns out, that premise may not be right. In Debt, the author debunks the theory that barter begets money. His basic premise is that debt came first. Not being an economist, this seems a bit like a chicken & egg argument. However, the author presents the concept of worth and debt in an anthropological and sociological context which is very compelling. The first half of the book is strong, especially with respect to human relationships and worth. The chapter called Honor and Degradation, or, On the Foundations of Contemporary Civilization goes into the dynamics of human relationships and discusses slavery at length, a topic that I realize I know very little. The chapters after the middle ages were ok, just not as interesting to me. The book was refreshingly free of any capitalism vs. socialism (aka left vs. right) debates, and even argues that parts of our lives are very communistic. ...more A superb, readable economic history that will transform your thinking time and again. I can't effectively write a short review of this book: it's masterful, revolutionary, thought-provoking, and on its way to being the best book of the year for me. Regardless of your politics or knowledge of economics, you'll find new and fascinating material here. Graeber's scholarship is prodigious, and his writing style is highly accessible. Particularly if you suspect we might not be living in the best of all A superb, readable economic history that will transform your thinking time and again. I can't effectively write a short review of this book: it's masterful, revolutionary, thought-provoking, and on its way to being the best book of the year for me. Regardless of your politics or knowledge of economics, you'll find new and fascinating material here. Graeber's scholarship is prodigious, and his writing style is highly accessible. Particularly if you suspect we might not be living in the best of all political-economic worlds, Graeber will give you fodder for a strong, historically-rooted critique, if not necessarily easy answers. In short, if you're concerned about the state of the world, read this book. ...more This is a book that made an impression on me. I will say right up front that it doesn't totally hang together. It sets out to make a step by step case, and gets carried away with its own ideas. It is intellectual for a popular book, but not tight enough for an intellectual book (which is probably fine by me). It attempts to sell you on a grandiose prediction or statement of where we are in the arc of history and where we are going at the end of the book. It is easy to get swept up in that sentim This is a book that made an impression on me. I will say right up front that it doesn't totally hang together. It sets out to make a step by step case, and gets carried away with its own ideas. It is intellectual for a popular book, but not tight enough for an intellectual book (which is probably fine by me). It attempts to sell you on a grandiose prediction or statement of where we are in the arc of history and where we are going at the end of the book. It is easy to get swept up in that sentiment, because David Graeber is clearly a passionate, intelligent, and contentious person. What this book does attempt to do, and succeeds at doing in my opinion, is get you to step back from the current moment in time and view it in the context of an enormous span of history. Maybe I need to read more history, but this is the first book I've read that has pulled me out from a post-Enlightenment perspective of the world. Reading this book is just soaking in the the perspective of a man who is an activist, opinionated anthropologist, and it sort of pulls the blindfold off a bit. It is only since reading this book that I've found myself reading about events like the Great War and really grasping how alien to me that pre-war era and its attitudes were. Anyway, if you hear about this book and find the idea of reading it appealing, you will rip right through it. To me, it was engaging and thought provoking, even though I felt compelled to take a bit of salt with every page. ...more Seth Godin recommended this book in his blog in January 2017. Graeber gives an exhaustive history of the origins and types of debt. At times it is tedious, but it is never uninteresting. There are comprehensive discussions on the origins of money, consumerism, and capitalism. And countless historical tidbits help the reader to form an understanding of the relationships between religion, violence, war, debt, and the formation of markets. Then types of debts are further subcategorised. ie. debts t Seth Godin recommended this book in his blog in January 2017. Graeber gives an exhaustive history of the origins and types of debt. At times it is tedious, but it is never uninteresting. There are comprehensive discussions on the origins of money, consumerism, and capitalism. And countless historical tidbits help the reader to form an understanding of the relationships between religion, violence, war, debt, and the formation of markets. Then types of debts are further subcategorised. ie. debts to banks, moral debts, and debts to god (\u2018sins\u2019). The last section speaks of the present day, and helps to put the rest of the book into perspective. A worthy read. My favourite quote: \u201cThe most pleasurable experiences in life often involve SHARING something.\u201d ...more Definitely one the most interesting anthropologies I have read in years, almost like a Discours sur l'in\u00e9galit\u00e9 for the 21st century. It is a startling new vision of the way debt has operated in different societies historically, and it presents compelling moral objections to economic principles that are widely regarded as certainties. Debt is also packed with examples from and insights into the whole of recorded history. Far too many examples to dilate upon here, but for two personal favorites s Definitely one the most interesting anthropologies I have read in years, almost like a Discours sur l'in\u00e9galit\u00e9 for the 21st century. It is a startling new vision of the way debt has operated in different societies historically, and it presents compelling moral objections to economic principles that are widely regarded as certainties. Debt is also packed with examples from and insights into the whole of recorded history. Far too many examples to dilate upon here, but for two personal favorites see the section on Roman law as well as the merchant theory of Arthurian Romance. The universal scope of the book is one of its great strengths; not surprisingly, it proves to be its greatest stumbling block, too. Although the book is well-researched (don't skip the footnotes), in several chapters you start to feel as if Graeber is playing it a little fast and a little loose as he careens between cultures, taking first from column a, then from column b (and then from columns c, d, & e), then spinning it all into a fascinating general conclusion\u2014utterly absorbed, you remain slightly uneasy. ...more Okay, let's just all agree, if there is any justice among gods or men, that this book will sweep The Wealth of Nations out of its spot in history, and will go on to influence how we think about economics for the next 5,000 years. That is all. Brilhante, incisivo e ao mesmo tempo angustiante. David Graeber \u00e9 um antrop\u00f3logo especializado em economia, o que lhe d\u00e1 uma vis\u00e3o bastante distinta do comum economista, j\u00e1 que coloca lado a lado o humano e as finan\u00e7as, estudando em profundidade as suas implica\u00e7\u00f5es e depend\u00eancias. O facto de ter sido professor em Yale e agora na London School of Economics, apenas poss\u00edvel pela qualidade do seu trabalho, garante sustentabilidade ao que afirma ao longo de todo este livro, mesmo quando se afirma co Brilhante, incisivo e ao mesmo tempo angustiante. David Graeber \u00e9 um antrop\u00f3logo especializado em economia, o que lhe d\u00e1 uma vis\u00e3o bastante distinta do comum economista, j\u00e1 que coloca lado a lado o humano e as finan\u00e7as, estudando em profundidade as suas implica\u00e7\u00f5es e depend\u00eancias. O facto de ter sido professor em Yale e agora na London School of Economics, apenas poss\u00edvel pela qualidade do seu trabalho, garante sustentabilidade ao que afirma ao longo de todo este livro, mesmo quando se afirma como anarquista. Graeber foi um dos principais mentores do movimento Occupy Wall Street, nomeadamente da sua premissa de partida, \"We are the 99 percent\u201d. \u201cDebt: The First 5,000 Years\u201d \u00e9 um trabalho de fundo sobre os pap\u00e9is do dinheiro e poder na organiza\u00e7\u00e3o das sociedades humanas que explica o modo como toda a nossa civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o se sustenta em processos de d\u00edvida. Graeber d\u00e1 conta dos primeiros registos escritos que d\u00e3o conta dessas mesmas d\u00edvidas, algo que n\u00e3o me surpreendeu j\u00e1 que essa \u00e9 uma percep\u00e7\u00e3o que fui construindo com a visita a v\u00e1rios museus arqueol\u00f3gicos, nos quais vi alguns dos primeiros registos em pequenas pedras, tendo percebido que na generalidade se tratavam de invent\u00e1rios, heran\u00e7as ou senten\u00e7as judiciais de pagamentos de d\u00edvidas. S\u00e3o v\u00e1rios os mitos desmontados por Graeber ao longo do livro, um dos mais gritantes, o da economia de troca, algo que existe no nosso imagin\u00e1rio como uma cultura existente anterior ao dinheiro, e que por isso mesmo vimos florescer nos anos recentes como tentativa de resposta aos efeitos da austeridade, mas que aqui ao longo de muitas p\u00e1ginas, dezenas de exemplos, e muita hist\u00f3ria vamos perceber como nunca tendo passado de mero desejo do nosso imagin\u00e1rio. Seria insustent\u00e1vel desenvolver a civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o at\u00e9 ao ponto de complexidade que cheg\u00e1mos, baseado numa economia desse g\u00e9nero, j\u00e1 que a possibilidade de trocas entre indiv\u00edduos seria imensamente mais lenta e reduzida na aus\u00eancia de um qualquer registo (dinheiro) que garante a troca entre todos e em qualquer momento. Graeber come\u00e7a o primeiro cap\u00edtulo de forma brilhante tocando o \u00e2mago da discuss\u00e3o do momento, a crise das d\u00edvidas soberanas, explicando como se chegou a este ponto, como evoluiu a sociedade por meio de uma obsess\u00e3o quantitativa suportada por um moralismo judicial, no qual o FMI \u00e9 o p\u00edncaro global, o grande cobrador de d\u00edvidas. Nos v\u00e1rios cap\u00edtulos que se sucedem v\u00e1rios momentos da hist\u00f3ria da evolu\u00e7\u00e3o da civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o s\u00e3o apontados como basilares, nomeadamente processos de explora\u00e7\u00e3o, desde os Romanos \u00e0 expans\u00e3o colonial europeia, ao tr\u00e1fico de escravos, tr\u00e1fico sexual, etc.. Tudo processos de poder e dom\u00ednio por via da d\u00edvida permanente entre partes, que serve de justificativa moral na explora\u00e7\u00e3o do mais fraco pelo mais forte. \"Why debt? What makes the concept so strangely powerful? Consumer debt is the life-blood of our economy. All modern nation-states are built on deficit spending. Debt has come to be the central issue of international politics. But nobody seems to know exactly what it is, or how to think about it. The very fact that we don\u2019t know what debt is, the very flexibility of the concept, is the basis of its power. If history shows anything, it is that there\u2019s no better way to justify relations founded on violence, to make such relations seem moral, than by reframing them in the language of debt \u2014 above all, because it immediately makes it seem like it\u2019s the victim who\u2019s doing something wrong.\" p.5-6 \u201cIt is the secret scandal of capitalism that at no point has it been or\u00adganized primarily around free labor. The conquest of the Americas began with mass enslavement, then gradually settled into various forms of debt peonage, African slavery, and \"indentured service\"-that is, the use of contract labor, workers who had received cash in advance and were thus bound for five-, seven-, or ten-year terms to pay it back (.. ) This is a scandal (..) because it plays havoc with our most cherished assumptions about what capitalism really is\u00ad particularly that, in its basic nature, capitalism has something to do with freedom.\u201d p.350 Concordando com muito, ou toda a forma como Graeber desconstr\u00f3i e critica o desenvolvimento e estado da nossa civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o, o seu encanto esvai-se quando chega o momento de propor alternativas. Mas seria expect\u00e1vel que um homem s\u00f3, num tempo de uma vida pudesse chegar a propor tal alternativa? Ou mesmo recuando a Marx e ligando ao mais recente trabalho de Piketty? O que acaba por se imensamente mais angustiante \u00e9 perceber que se estes que tiveram a capacidade de destrin\u00e7ar a malha que nos encurrala, tal pris\u00e3o inv\u00edsivel, n\u00e3o conseguiram ver como, que podemos ent\u00e3o n\u00f3s esperar? Existir\u00e1 mesmo alternativa? Acredito que sim, mas s\u00f3 num n\u00edvel de consci\u00eancia e autocontrolo muito superior ao que temos atualmente enquanto sociedade. O grande problema \u00e9 que se somos profundamente greg\u00e1rios, cooperativos e colaborativos, n\u00e3o somos menos profundamente dependentes uns dos outros para sobreviver, da\u00ed que a d\u00edvida seja a base da civiliza\u00e7\u00e3o, porque ela \u00e9 no fundo a base da classe mam\u00edfera, que ao contr\u00e1rio da dos r\u00e9pteis, n\u00e3o consegue sobreviver individualmente, apenas em grupo. Tamb\u00e9m em: http://virtual-illusion.blogspot.pt/2... ...more When you are dealing with the so called 'Great Questions' about human nature, a comprehensive and thorough account of the latter is fundamental, otherwise you end up with the strange fantasies of most Western philosophers of the last centuries and contemporary economists. Also you end up with pernicious moral consequences. In this book, David Graeber goes through a very wide (and therefore very compelling) anthropological record of the most diverse facets that the phenomenon of debt has assumed When you are dealing with the so called 'Great Questions' about human nature, a comprehensive and thorough account of the latter is fundamental, otherwise you end up with the strange fantasies of most Western philosophers of the last centuries and contemporary economists. Also you end up with pernicious moral consequences. In this book, David Graeber goes through a very wide (and therefore very compelling) anthropological record of the most diverse facets that the phenomenon of debt has assumed throughout history, questioning the ethical dimension that it has taken in very recent time. I think that its timeliness and importance are great considering the fact that debt is always at the center of political and moral debates as well as being something for which the world economic structure is what it is. ...more Aku berikan buku ini 4 bintang untuk \"audacity\", keberanian untuk mencabar status quo di dalam faham ekonomi kontemporer. Tapi penyampaiannya aku tidak boleh berikan lebih daripada 3 bintang - kemungkinan 2.5. Buku ini dihasilkan agak baru (2012) jadi gaya bahasa dan penulisannya adalah moden. Aku tak tahu kenapa tapi aku dapati gaya bahasa penulisan bahasa Inggeris untuk buku non-fiction mulai merudum selepas 1970. Dan memasuki abad 21 ini gaya penulisan jurnalistik (ayat-ayat pendek; mempersem Aku berikan buku ini 4 bintang untuk \"audacity\", keberanian untuk mencabar status quo di dalam faham ekonomi kontemporer. Tapi penyampaiannya aku tidak boleh berikan lebih daripada 3 bintang - kemungkinan 2.5. Buku ini dihasilkan agak baru (2012) jadi gaya bahasa dan penulisannya adalah moden. Aku tak tahu kenapa tapi aku dapati gaya bahasa penulisan bahasa Inggeris untuk buku non-fiction mulai merudum selepas 1970. Dan memasuki abad 21 ini gaya penulisan jurnalistik (ayat-ayat pendek; mempersembahkan fakta sediatahu dengan anekdot2 pelik; juga mengambil 'jalan jauh' untuk menyatakan idea yang sebenarnya boleh disampaikan di dalam dua, tiga ayat) yang kini semakin kerap digunakan di dalam penulisan nyata sekali bukanlah kegemaran aku. Cukup berkenaan aestetik, bagaimana pula dengan tesis? Buku ini boleh dikatakan culmination kepada aliran teori alternatif di dalam bidang pensejarahan ilmu ekonomi. That is, idea2 dalam buku ini dah lama diungkapkan oleh certain schools of economist tapi ia tidak pernah lagi disintesiskan dalam rupabentuk seperti ini. Kata Graeber, sistem barter bukanlah precursor kepada ekonomi moden - in fact, sistem barter adalah sistem yg digunakan waktu ekonomi tersebut lumpuh (ibarat backup power). Jadi sebelum kebangkitan ekonomi moden bagaimana manusia berinteraksi dan bertukarbarang? Kredit, jawap Graeber. Disini aku mulai hilang fokus kepada apa yg Graber ingin katakan. Ini kerana banyak istilah2 yg digunakan Graber adalah digunakan dalam makna yang lebih luas daripada yg sediada. Kredit salah satunya: ia adalah keadaan di mana individu A mengambil barang dengan individu B dengan persetujuan bisu bahawa pada satu masa nanti B pula akan mengambil barang daripada A bila mana B memerlukannya. Masalah dalam naratif ini adalah bagaimana dua barang yang berbeza boleh ditentukan nilainya - demi memastikan pertukaranbarang yang berlaku adalah saksama. Teori barter memang nampak lagi masuk akal dalam aspek ini. Tapi seperti yg Graeber kata, tiada langsung bukti historikal atau antrapologikal yg menyokong teori barter sebagai sistem ekonomi bagi masyarakat primitif. Sebaliknya manusia dalam masyarakat tersebuf menggunapakai sistem kredit: basically berhutang. Peminjam dan pemiutang pula selalunya datang daripada komuniti yg dekat. Dan ini menyebabkan perilaku tukarbarang menggunakan sistem kredit atau hutang tersebut mengambil dimensi sosio-budaya - jauh berlainan dengan apa yg manusia moden dengan wang kertas dan credit cardnya praktikkan. Di sini Graber memberikan beberapa anekdot antropologikal yang terlalu bizarre untuk aku titipkan di sini. Cukup untuk aku katakan bahawa hutang atau sistem kredit pada zaman tersebut selain daripada digunakan untuk urusan pertukaranbarang, pada masa yg sama ia turut berfungsi untuk menyusunatur hierarki masyarakat. Justeru hutang adalah cara manusia berurusan antara satu sama lain sebelum zaman tok kaduk lagi. Seperti tagline buku ini nyatakan, hutang wujud sebelum wang atau duit wujud lagi. Selepas penciptaan duit, konsep hutang menjadi semakin rigid dan terhad kepada aspek ekonomi - memandangkan hubungan antara manusia kini boleh diringkaskan kepada nilai wang. Akan tetapi konsep2 sosio-budaya sekitar idea hutang tetap kekal. Idea bahawa setiap daripada mempunyai hutang dan kita wajib untuk membayar hutang tersebut walau macam manapun, contohnya. Pada takah individu, idea ini tampak innocuous. Tapi pada takah negara, idea ini adalah anomali terutamanya apabila melihatkan bahawa kebanyakan hutang yg dimilik negara2 dunia ketiga adalah odious debt iaitu hutang yg didirikan atas premis2 yg tidak absah (dipaksa oleh IMF atau Amerika etc). Terlalu banyak konsep baru yang aku perlu garap untuk membaca buku ini kerana ia adalah buku antropologi sekaligus juga ekonomi. Aku harus katakan yg aku tidak begitu fahami apa polemik sebenar yg cuba dibawakan oleh penulis. Terutama sekali apabila beliau mula includekan mitos2 keagamaan di dalam naratif bagaimana konsep hutang telah memberi kesan kepada cara manusia menanggapi alam sekitar dan dewa2 di Langit - itu yang aku maksudkan dengan 'ambil jalan jauh'. Anyway, I am definitely looking forward to reread it in the future. ...more While the Goodreads rating system doesn't allow for fractional results this book should be a 4.5. David Graeber turns an anthropologist\u2019s gimlet eye toward the way that economists analyze the world and after the first few chapters the dismal science is little more than a smoking ruin. \u201cDebt: the First 5,000 Years\u201d is an impressive and important book. It begins with a history of money that, while interesting in itself, is more important in showing how economists have been wrong about the most bas While the Goodreads rating system doesn't allow for fractional results this book should be a 4.5. David Graeber turns an anthropologist\u2019s gimlet eye toward the way that economists analyze the world and after the first few chapters the dismal science is little more than a smoking ruin. \u201cDebt: the First 5,000 Years\u201d is an impressive and important book. It begins with a history of money that, while interesting in itself, is more important in showing how economists have been wrong about the most basic issues they study starting with the idea of exchange through barter. He unpacks the received notions of Adam Smith and other classical thinkers to show that the profession has founding myths that serve the function of valorizing current practices. Essentially they don\u2019t function much differently than creation stories of religion\u2014Genesis (1-3), Lord Brahma the Creator, the Great Serpent and all that\u2014not subject to scientific inquiry but the basis for rules and standards that govern the faithful. (The last sentence is my reading of the Graeber). One by one the assumptions that guide economists are questioned and found wanting. Barter, for example, was the way that people exchanged goods before the invention of money, mentioned above, according to most economic texts\u2014but try to find examples of it in the literature. You won\u2019t. Another shibboleth of long standing is that human interactions are forms of exchange. This works if one ignores everything moral, philosophical or artistic that defines us as human, in other words disregards anything that undermines initial suppositions and prejudices. This is, of course, exactly the method that economists use when creating the studies that reinforce their beliefs/outlook. An old joke is a good example of this. A physicist, an engineer, and an economist are stranded on a desert island with lots of canned food but no can opener. The physicist tries to open a can by heating it but it explodes; the engineer climbs a tree and drops a rock on a can but it ruptures and splatters the contents into the dirt. The economist says, \u201cAssume a can opener...\u201d If you make the right assumptions then anything is possible. Graeber is great on the debt part of his inquiry, asking how a commercial transaction with a certain degree of risk that results in a debt has been elevated to a basic, immutable moral law. Much of the answer lies not in the ethics of the situation but in the ability of one party to enforce the contract even to the great detriment of the other party\u2014or, more likely, its successors. The grinding down of highly indebted poor countries by the IMF in order to repay loans that were simply stolen by unelected leaders, many of whom were voted out of office or, more likely, overthrown in rebellions, by the same people who are being told they are now responsible for the indebtedness is an example of this. If a brutal dictator ruled a tropical hellhole for decades and is finally defeated by rebellious citizens the new government is expected to honor every penny, franc and farthing the dictator managed to cadge from banks in the advanced sector\u2014including the tens of millions of dollars the former ruler borrowed in loans subsidized by France, England or the United States so that his military could buy helicopter gunships from manufacturers in the country that loaned him the money. That half the proceeds of the loans were rerouted to banks in the Cayman Islands by the former ruler and the other half was used to buy helicopters used to slaughter insurgents makes no difference\u2014in the twisted morality of the realm of debt it is all the same and must be repaid. Graeber is less convincing in his survey of the history of debt across centuries and continents\u2014while he has a lot of data on China, India, Europe and North America going back millennia it is a lot to synthesize and present, particularly for someone who is not a historian. However he does such a wonderful job with the dismantling and reconstruction of our notions of debt and justice that we tend to forgive any lacunae that might occur in the very broad sketch of the 5,000 years he covers. ...more It's very interesting because Graeber is engaging with capitalism as an ideology and tearing into it with a lot of classic anthropology arguments. It's more Zizek and Taleb Nassim than Adam Smith. So far Graeber has done a compelling job of arguing that money is not actually an intrinsic component of civilization or even an economy. The classic excuse by economists is first we had barter, then we had to create money in case people could only barter with goods people didn't want. I'm not sure how It's very interesting because Graeber is engaging with capitalism as an ideology and tearing into it with a lot of classic anthropology arguments. It's more Zizek and Taleb Nassim than Adam Smith. So far Graeber has done a compelling job of arguing that money is not actually an intrinsic component of civilization or even an economy. The classic excuse by economists is first we had barter, then we had to create money in case people could only barter with goods people didn't want. I'm not sure how much anyone ever took this myth seriously, it's main function was just to illustrate the obvious utility of having a currency at all. Graeber's argument is that first we had credit systems, then we had money as an extension of it. Since credit systems vary vastly by community, you don't even really need money in a variety of setups. Money is not a thing. It is a mechanism for measuring credit and, more importantly, for measuring debt. It's actually an important distinction on a macro level. That isn't \"money\" you're spreading around, it's debt. And the more of it you print and distribute, usually to stimulate a market into existence, you're just putting more people into debt. Which eventually might cause people to raise some questions. It gets bogged down at a few spots but it is still really interesting. Explaining slave economics in Africa was pretty mindblowing, other stuff I'm curious about. Connecting the development of Patriarchy to debt in agrarian cultures seems sorta...not a stretch exactly because I see his logic but it seems like a gross over-simplification. The reduction of people into property via the meshing of human economies and markets is just too complex. I still don't follow all of the stuff he's talking about. I suppose I wish there was more discussion on the why of this stuff. You've got people selling their offspring into debt slavery and then that slowly turning into chattel slavery. Were their outside forces causing increased demand for food? Why was Greece in so much debt in 600 BC? I enjoy this sort of history, a narrow focus on a single aspect and discussing its impact across civilization, but it is much bigger than a book on the history of alcohol or candy. Maybe too big. Choice Quotes: \"To be made a slave is to be stripped of any possible honor\u2026The problem is that honor is, by definition, something that exists in the eyes of others. To be able to recover it, then, a slave must necessarily adopt the rules and standards of the society that surrounds him, and this means that, in practice at least, he cannot absolutely reject the institutions that deprived him of his honor in the first place.\" ...more Hadn't read a book on banking or economics since college in the 1980s and The Money Lenders . Mostly this is because, although a life-long fan of Gothic literature and horror movies, nothing has ever scared me more than The Money Lenders , a truly terrifying read. The international banking coalition is even more frightening than the so-called terrorists or the super powers and their nuclear stockpiles! Unlike a political edifice, subject often to voting, or revolution, or a coup, the banks seems t Hadn't read a book on banking or economics since college in the 1980s and The Money Lenders . Mostly this is because, although a life-long fan of Gothic literature and horror movies, nothing has ever scared me more than The Money Lenders , a truly terrifying read. The international banking coalition is even more frightening than the so-called terrorists or the super powers and their nuclear stockpiles! Unlike a political edifice, subject often to voting, or revolution, or a coup, the banks seems to persist on a level of power high above what any of us will ever be able to effect, and yet we live with their bullshit on our backs every day of our lives--arguably, they effect us more than our governments, even if the two are so intertwined as to be almost unified--except for the fact that the banks, by holding nation-states hostage to their money and the concept of debt, have most of the power. This book, from an anthropological perspective, was eye-opening to me in many ways. Best of all, the anthropological perspective allows one to step comfortably out of pre-conceived notions and prejudices constantly in order to re-evaluate the history of the concept of debt, the habit that we have created that it's possible to owe somebody something and all of the abuses, hierarchies, and slaughter that such a concept has spawned. Enlightening reading even if the book is a bit vast--therefore prone to self-contradiction at times--how could it not be it tackles 5000 years of human history? Gotta read more anthropology! ...more The premise of Debt is: everything you think you know about the history of economic and monetary systems is wrong. I hadn't thought that a book about debt could be so interesting, but the author, an anthropologist, takes more of a cultural view, examining how different societies throughout human history have structured their economies; how debt is or isn't a moral failing; how slavery, violence, and war underlie so much of, well, everything... there's a lot in here, and it's a fascinating read. It The premise of Debt is: everything you think you know about the history of economic and monetary systems is wrong. I hadn't thought that a book about debt could be so interesting, but the author, an anthropologist, takes more of a cultural view, examining how different societies throughout human history have structured their economies; how debt is or isn't a moral failing; how slavery, violence, and war underlie so much of, well, everything... there's a lot in here, and it's a fascinating read. It answers a lot of things I'd been wondering about for a while too. I don't mean big questions (though it does provide some hints there); I mean things like how I'd never really understood until I read this book why slavery was absolutely not a moral issue for the Romans (and I've read, let's just say, a lot about Roman slavery, but none of it ever framed it so that I really viscerally got that particular point), and how I'd also never understood the Celtic custom involving committing ritual suicide at feasts. I hadn't been expecting to get answers to those things here (especially given how obscure the latter one is, relatively speaking), but, hey, I did. I will now proceed to recommend this to everyone I know -- it's really worth reading, and I'm glad I did. ...more A superb book. Throughout reading this book I felt like little epiphanies were going off in my head as Graeber presented new information or new analyses that I hadn't considered before. Graeber manages to expose the violence, coercion and inequality that has become sublimated in the bland language of credit and debt so that most of us see debt as an impersonal, objective and moral issue. He opens with an anecdote that inspired him to write this book in the first place, describing attending a par A superb book. Throughout reading this book I felt like little epiphanies were going off in my head as Graeber presented new information or new analyses that I hadn't considered before. Graeber manages to expose the violence, coercion and inequality that has become sublimated in the bland language of credit and debt so that most of us see debt as an impersonal, objective and moral issue. He opens with an anecdote that inspired him to write this book in the first place, describing attending a party and meeting a lawyer who is an activist for social justice issues with impeccable Lefty credentials. She discovered that he was involved in protesting against IMF policies and asked what he hoped to achieve, to which he replied that he wanted the debts third world countries owe to rich countries wiped out because of the appalling injustice it was creating, to which she replied that surely we all have to pay our debts. Graeber decided that if even somebody as intelligent and ethical as her could see the carnage taking place in the third world as a necessary consequence of a simple and obvious moral that we all must pay our debts he needed to expose the complex history behind this notion and wrote the first (!) ever history of debt. (Got to run, may come back to this later) ...more A quite extraordinary book. 5000 years of the history of debt and credit by a very expert anthropologist though one with a fine sense of history and its implications for the future. His grasp of historical reality makes a mockery of most economists sense of the origins of the market, or money. And his sure footed knowledge of ancient Iraq and other middle east countries, of India and China throws a completely fresh and global perspective on all economic history especially opening up Western Euro A quite extraordinary book. 5000 years of the history of debt and credit by a very expert anthropologist though one with a fine sense of history and its implications for the future. His grasp of historical reality makes a mockery of most economists sense of the origins of the market, or money. And his sure footed knowledge of ancient Iraq and other middle east countries, of India and China throws a completely fresh and global perspective on all economic history especially opening up Western European economic history and situating it in a global context. Much of the treasure of Spanish South America didn't end up in Europe but headed straight for China which was producing many things Europe wanted from fine silks to spices. Indeed Manila was set up in the Philippines to facilitate direct shipment of Peruvian silver directly to China. Western dominance of the world economy feels like a blink of the eye in Graeber's time scale. He is also a political activist and influential in the Occupy Wall Street and debt forgiveness movements and unable to fail to connect his researches with this need to act. ...more<---C>David Graeber</---C>", "Title": "Debt: The First 5,000 Years"},
