{"Comments": "<+++>The Trouble with Playing Cupid</+++> features a famous singer named December Brown, and a famous actor she has a crush on, named Tom Elmswood. For a publicity stunt, a talk show host who's friends with December, hosts both December and Tom on his show, and outs her crush on the actor from a drunk text December sent.<---F> I thought this book was cute</---F>. It was so cute, I thought it might better suit a different age range, because at time the book was more adorable than most romance books I've read. Tom Elmswood <+++>The Trouble with Playing Cupid</+++> features a famous singer named December Brown, and a famous actor she has a crush on, named Tom Elmswood. For a publicity stunt, a talk show host who's friends with December, hosts both December and Tom on his show, and outs her crush on the actor from a drunk text December sent. I thought this book was cute. It was so cute, I thought it might better suit a different age range, because at time the book was more adorable than most romance books I've read. Tom Elmswood was this reclusive British actor, who had an interesting back story. December was a Beyonce-esque singer, who I would've liked if she displayed her inner diva a little more =) The romance in the book is gradual,<---M> but it is believable</---M>, but if you're looking for something a little steamier, this is a much cleaner romance. Im open to clean and steamy, so I didn't have any complaints about that. I think the only thing that brought out a reaction in me was that December was much fairer and less distinguishably Black if you didn't know she was. Black women have diverse looks, so fairer girls need representation too, I've just read a lot of books that didn't deviate from the \"light skinned is beautiful\" trope, that's all. It was also funny how, as famous as they were, they seemed to be able to come and go as they pleased, like they weren't easily recognized. I'd probably go insane over an actor in a McDonalds commercial, so even though it's not a deal breaker, I would've liked to see someone go nuts over seeing them walking casually down the street of NYC. If you're looking for a fun novel about British hunks, interracial themes, and cleaner romance stories, I'd highly suggest \"The Trouble with Playing Cupid!\" ...more This was a very sweet, cute, and fun read! I recommend it for anyone who likes romance stories where the hero and heroine are nice and respectful to each other throughout the story. This story was like a little basket of daisies. Who doesn't like a gritty love story. The romance plays out to be true to imagination with a real flare for an intimate setting and flawless character portrayals, the character 'Trace', being my favorite. The authors writing style sucks you in to the pages and I found I couldn't put it down. I was actually late for an appointment yesterday as I was so engrossed reading this book on the train that I missed my stop lol. I hope <---A>Tamara</---A> brings a lot more romance to our lives, and I will definitely be Who doesn't like a gritty love story. The romance plays out to be true to imagination with a real flare for an intimate setting and flawless character portrayals, the character 'Trace', being my favorite. The authors writing style sucks you in to the pages and I found I couldn't put it down. I was actually late for an appointment yesterday as I was so engrossed reading this book on the train that I missed my stop lol. I hope Tamara brings a lot more romance to our lives, and I will definitely be watching out for more books to come by this talented new author. ...more The Trouble with Playing Cupid is a cute and sweet story that you can read in one sitting. December is a successful singer with a heart of gold. I LOVE December! I found her non-divaness refreshing, and she donates a lot of money to charities. She uses her fame and money to help others, and that endeared her to me for life. Tom is a British actor and a total heartthrob. I wasn't quite rooting for a romance between the two at first because during the appearance on Trace Randall's show, Tom seemed The Trouble with Playing Cupid is a cute and sweet story that you can read in one sitting. December is a successful singer with a heart of gold. I LOVE December! I found her non-divaness refreshing, and she donates a lot of money to charities. She uses her fame and money to help others, and that endeared her to me for life. Tom is a British actor and a total heartthrob. I wasn't quite rooting for a romance between the two at first because during the appearance on Trace Randall's show, Tom seemed a little bit like a jerk and too aloof for my liking. Does he not pay attention to who other people are? He didn't even know who December is! I'm pretty sure IRL British actors know American celebrities. They mix. They mingle. I was kind of like, \"How dare you, Tom!\" See how much I love December?? \"When he played the role of a self-indulgent vampire...\" = best line ever! I laughed so hard when I read that about Tom! Kind of sounds like a Lestat-type character. When I realized there's more to Tom than what he shows on camera, I was on board for him to get together with December. I liked the buildup to their romance, and it was very sweet. The Trouble with Playing Cupid had me laughing, swooning, and cringing - sometimes all three at the same time. I ended up loving the characters, especially December's bodyguard and stylist. There was more telling than showing sometimes, but it's a short read, so I think it was in order to give background on the characters. I thought The Trouble with Playing Cupid was a standalone going in, but once I found out there's a sequel, I'm looking forward to finding out more about December's best friend and agent, Clarissa. I received a review copy of this book for my stop on the blog tour at Donnie Darko Girl . ...more I laughed and cried along with the characters. I fell in love with the story line and the Characters. I Love Tom! He was the most down to earth man with a heart of Gold! December AKA Dee banter and sweet talk had me on a emotional roller coaster.I would love to have friends like Clarissa and Terrence. This book (genre) is a book that I have never read. Tamara wove magic when writing this and also has made me become a fan of Romantic Comedies. Awesome!!! This was the first time reading anything of this kind, now I'm definitely glad I did. December was incredibly well written, she felt like a real person which made it a much more engrossing read. The story was witty and all of the characters had their own charm my favorite being Trace. It was a great start to a promising series of books by Mrs Phillip and I would definitely recommend it to any fan of the genre. This was such a sweet story! Loved everything except the way it ended, left me surprised to have reached the last page already without realizing it! Probably needed a few more chapters and a lot more tying up loose ends but it was so sweet and fluffy! I really enjoyed this book, the author left me on edge, making me wonder what would happen with this cute game show couple. Great story line and a beautiful romance! Great story to workout to. Although I thought it would be longer. What a beautiful new age fairy tale romance. ~Sigh~ it made my heart skip a beat. 3.5 stars<---C>Tamara Philip</---C>", "Title": "The Trouble with Playing Cupid"},
