{"Comments": "This is the first <---C>Jack Reacher</---C> book I\u2019ve read. Maybe I should have started with the first one in the series, but I picked up this one used.<---F> For fifty cents</---F>. Reading some of the Goodreads comments about the varied quality of the Reacher series, I was probably better off starting with this one. The tricksy misdirection at the beginning of the book aside, this was a decent read. Reacher, reminded me of Robert B. Parker\u2019s Spenser, big, tough, smart, can handle himself in any situation. But he\u2019s not a This is the first Jack Reacher book I\u2019ve read. Maybe I should have started with the first one in the series, but I picked up this one used. For fifty cents. Reading some of the Goodreads comments about the varied quality of the Reacher series, I was probably better off starting with this one. The tricksy misdirection at the beginning of the book aside, this was a decent read. Reacher, reminded me of Robert B. Parker\u2019s Spenser, big, tough, smart, can handle himself in any situation. But he\u2019s not a private investigator and he has fewer scruples than Spenser. Plot summary: Things go awry, people die. Usually the bad guys. In creative ways. I should read something cheery and positive next. I probably won\u2019t. ...more I am totally loving this series. (Although I think it must be best NOT to read them back to back because then the formula wears through.) This is a good one -- tense, claustrophobic, and non-stop action. Two quibbles -- the romance between Reacher and Duffy seems...unmotivated. Like the author says to himself, \"And this is the place where I start the romance,\" and proceeded to have Reacher make out with the nearest available female character. Also, the last 20 percent of the novel seems unduly l I am totally loving this series. (Although I think it must be best NOT to read them back to back because then the formula wears through.) This is a good one -- tense, claustrophobic, and non-stop action. Two quibbles -- the romance between Reacher and Duffy seems...unmotivated. Like the author says to himself, \"And this is the place where I start the romance,\" and proceeded to have Reacher make out with the nearest available female character. Also, the last 20 percent of the novel seems unduly long...and a bit confusing. Some tighter editing would have sharpened it up nicely. I love it when a plan comes together. ...more This bad-ass walks around with an anaconda in his pants (apparently, that's a type of revolver but it's still pretty impressive) He has an AOL device hidden in his shoe. He says nothing a lot. So does everyone else in this novel. I'm not cut out for crime fiction. It bugs me. I would have to rank this as one of my favourite <---A>Lee Child</---A> books, even if I thoughs the start was dubious. For the first chapter or two, I worried this might even be a Reacher novel of a standard to rival the disaster that was Nothing to Lose. Then,<---M> of course</---M>, we got a little farther into the book and I was able to reassure myself that no book could be as bad as Nothing to Lose. I think if Lee Child were to write another book as bad as Nothing to Lose, I'd have to give up on him. Anyway, Persuad I would have to rank this as one of my favourite Lee Child books, even if I thoughs the start was dubious. For the first chapter or two, I worried this might even be a Reacher novel of a standard to rival the disaster that was Nothing to Lose. Then, of course, we got a little farther into the book and I was able to reassure myself that no book could be as bad as Nothing to Lose. I think if Lee Child were to write another book as bad as Nothing to Lose, I'd have to give up on him. Anyway, <+++>Persuader</+++> was a terrific novel, definitely up there with the best of Reacher. The book begins with Reacher witnessing and intervening in a kidnapping. Immediately, we know something about the situation is not quite right. Reacher is acting in ways that we know are not congruent with his character. For instance, Reacher doesn't stroll around with two huge revolvers in his pants on any normal day, and (this was the most alarming) he most definitely does not drive a van. Also, without giving anything away, his reactions to certain events do not fit with what we know of the character. For these reasons, I feared that Child may have, for some unknown reason, decided to disregard everything we know about the character, just so events would fit the story. But I should have known better than to doubt Child. Soon enough, we were back to the Reacher we know and love. Soon after the chaotic events of the first two chapters, Reacher is working undercover, infiltrating a heavily guarded mansion in an attempt to rescue a DEA agent held hostage by a ruthless criminal. Reacher's motives in taking part in this operation are slowly revealed throughout the book, as we learn that he is trying to settle an old score with an old enemy figure from his past, one long thought dead. One of the main reasons I found this book to be one of my favourite in the series was that this role had good deal of character building for Reacher. His desire for justice and the lengths he will go to achieve it play a huge part of the story, particularly in the final chapters. The other reason I like it is that Reacher comes up against a situation we very rarely (if ever) see. In most instances, Reacher is the biggest and strongest guy in the room. He's able to knock down enemies with only one or two blows, easily defeating those who get in his way. However, in <+++>Persuader</+++>, there is (get ready for it) someone bigger than Reacher! Our hero comes up against a huge mountain of a man, a four-hundred-pound, seven foot tall, steroid using thug with arms that look as though they've had basketballs stuffed inside of them. This is a guy who makes Reacher feel as Reacher makes most other people feel. This scenario reveals a completely new side of the character. Not many people could take one of Reacher's kicks and stay standing. However much I enjoyed this book, there is one or two little problems I had with it. First of all, the romance seemed rather pointless. I didn't like the character Duffy in the first place (she seemed rather dim witted) and it appeared to me that the romance between her and Reacher was placed only so Child could have a sex scene in the book. It didn't really seem to mean anything, and both characters acted as though it had never happened afterwards. Saying this, I did, however, enjoy the scenes between Reacher and Kohl (a character I liked much better than Duffy). This romance was actually relevant to the plot, and it seemed more meaningful than the Duffy-Reacher romance. My second minor problem was was that there was a sequence of scenes towards the end of the book that seemed drawn out and pointless. Basically, it involved a few of the characters running around looking for the bad guys only to end up back where they started. This just seemed dumb, and served only to set up the next sequence of scenes (which I admittedly loved; I just think Child could have found a far better way to get to them). Overall, Persuader was an excellent edition to a series I love and a great development to a character I love. There were a few minor things that annoyed me, but not enough to drop my rating from five stars to four. Overall, a great read for any thriller fans. ...more Gigantic hobo detective Jack Reacher once again wanders into more trouble than any happy-go-lucky wanderer would reasonably expect. This time, after encountering a ghost from his past, a man named Quinn who should be dead, Reacher gets involved in an undercover DEA operation to take the man and his smuggling operation down. Reacher poses as a gun-for-hire in order to infiltrate Quinn's operation. The DEA wants him to go in and recover an agent who went missing and is presumably held captive. Rea Gigantic hobo detective Jack Reacher once again wanders into more trouble than any happy-go-lucky wanderer would reasonably expect. This time, after encountering a ghost from his past, a man named Quinn who should be dead, Reacher gets involved in an undercover DEA operation to take the man and his smuggling operation down. Reacher poses as a gun-for-hire in order to infiltrate Quinn's operation. The DEA wants him to go in and recover an agent who went missing and is presumably held captive. Reacher is going in for personal reasons. Quinn was supposed to be dead and Reacher is going to make sure he stays that way. Child's Reacher series is fairly reliable. After reading a couple, you pretty much know what you're going to get, and you keep reading more because what you want is what Child delivers. That is, action, thrills, a little sex, despicable villains and a big-ass juggernaut of justice willing to crack skulls and shoot people until all the bad guys are dead. Persuader is no different, and that's a good thing. Replace any of the items above with Reacher learning to crochet or taking a yoga class and\u2026no I would not want to read that. The Reacher novels are, as Zwolf says over in The Mighty Blow Hole , the literary equivalent of a BDAM, or \"Big Dumb Action Movie. I have to agree (and, by the way, he also thinks that Dolph Lundgren would be an awesome film Reacher). Persuader is a BDAM, that's for BDAM sure, and it's a heck of a lot of fun. You do have to be able to overlook a certain amount of goofiness, however. This goofiness is stuff that's pretty consistent with Child's other Reacher books. For example, dialogues often have that rapid-fire back-and-forth Dragnet quality that is sometimes unintentionally hilarious. Child doesn't write convincingly about army life, cop life or guns. During his investigations, Reacher often seems to just stumble through it pulling some of the most far-fetched subterfuges, like (view spoiler) [flipping a car over to simulate a car wreck, which is not in itself far fetched, but he still had to keep the car looking somewhat okay, so he put coats on the pavement to keep the roof from scratching! And he almost couldn't get the car flipped back over\u2026 (hide spoiler) ] and his investigative methods often include such subtle \"techniques\" as breaking a guy's neck and shooting a guy in the head. I often wonder if Reacher really thinks thing through first. So if you're looking for a clever, delicately nuanced thriller with a plot as tangled a spider's web, Persuader ain't it. Persuader is about as subtle as a six-feet-five, two-hundred-and-fifty pound ex-military policeman can be. It does, however, offer a good amount of effective suspense thrown in with the action, and Child is quite good at pacing his novels. Ultimately, the most satisfying aspect of Persuader (and the Reacher novels overall) is the fact that Child has a talent for creating some of the most evil, repulsive, despicably vile bad guys, all who receive suitably brutal comeuppances courtesy of Jack Reacher. It may be a bit of wish-fulfillment on my part but I like seeing bullies put in their place, and so does Reacher: I don't really care about the little guy. I just hate the big guy. I hate big smug people who think they can get away with things. Persuader 's an effective thriller and a long as you don't take the minor gaffes too seriously it's a lot of fun. 3.5 stars, rounded to 4. ...more As always Lee Child is an exceptional writer. I think this one is going to be tabbed a favorite of mine. Reacher has met his match with the character, Paulie, who is just a lowly bodyguard, or so it seems. Finally, my hero (Reacher) isn't so tough and perfect. I love the thinking process in the writing as Reacher tries to solve yet another mystery, but this time, he's a bit slower figuring out the clues. There was more suspense and a little more wit, I had to laugh at the reasoning behind tippin As always Lee Child is an exceptional writer. I think this one is going to be tabbed a favorite of mine. Reacher has met his match with the character, Paulie, who is just a lowly bodyguard, or so it seems. Finally, my hero (Reacher) isn't so tough and perfect. I love the thinking process in the writing as Reacher tries to solve yet another mystery, but this time, he's a bit slower figuring out the clues. There was more suspense and a little more wit, I had to laugh at the reasoning behind tipping the car over onto the coats. HUH? I said to myself? What the hell is he thinking? Well, you'll find out soon enough when you read this. I really enjoy how Reacher's past is written and incorporated into some of these books. Experiences and crimes he recalls in his past as an MP puts Reacher in situations that have me yelling \"Go get him Reacher and make him hurt!\". The butchering of the women is enough to make you cringe, but not so bad that you regret this read. Reacher has come across a nemesis 10 years after he supposedly killed him, but this bad dude didn't die. Reacher, no longer an MP, pulled out his superman suit and said \"Time for round two\" and I was hooked. ...more I thought Killing Floor was a fun novel that showed a lot of promise. Its sequel, Die Trying , had very genuinely good shit but also bloated horribly and killed the momentum with the FBI agent plotline. Tripwire had a shamefully obvious mystery and a glacial plot with flashes of true suspense. So I was not really jazzed on the Reacher series. But ever since I started them, I liked Child's overall style, pacing, and prose. But I gotta admit, when I saw Make Me on the shelf, I thought to myself Tha I thought Killing Floor was a fun novel that showed a lot of promise. Its sequel, Die Trying , had very genuinely good shit but also bloated horribly and killed the momentum with the FBI agent plotline. Tripwire had a shamefully obvious mystery and a glacial plot with flashes of true suspense. So I was not really jazzed on the Reacher series. But ever since I started them, I liked Child's overall style, pacing, and prose. But I gotta admit, when I saw Make Me on the shelf, I thought to myself That's some real shit . I took it home and had a blast with it. I knew I had finally gelled with Child. None of the early bloated, pointless sub-plots and minutiae were there. The probably-legally-obligated-to-existence cool, tough, smart and ruthless professional female interest was there, but she is, truly unfortunately, just one in a sea of many. But I did really enjoy it. So I went out to the store and found the most over-the-top sounding Reacher novel I could find. And that was Persuader . Essentially, Reacher hooks up with some, uh, you know, FBI, CIA or the standard Unidentified G-Men over a single enemy: Quinn. Suffice it to say that Reacher and Quinn were not bros, and good people died. However, Reacher spots this ancient (and long thought dead) enemy in a completely random event. The g-woman picks up Reacher's calling in old favors on Quinn's car, and asks him what the hell his interest is. Frankly, Reacher, of course being a 6'5, 250-pound modern day hedge knight on a quest to right wrongs, agrees to go on an undercover mission in Zachary Beck's fortress mansion to recover an agent who was sent in before before losing contact, but Beck is connected to Quinn and is involved in a mysterious illicit trade of some kind. Just to make it more epic, dude lives on a peninsula guarded by a huge wall and a giant, steroid-addled disgusting fuck named Paulie, so physically intimidating that Reacher admits Paulie's outsizing him \"put him squarely in the freak category.\" This is the perfect Reacher book: truly vile villains that deserve Reacher's own brand of justice, several criminal conspiracies going on to be revealed, Child's stylistic, utilitarian elegance, and a fantastic and liberal deployment of true tension, as well as mysteries: Where's the missing agent? What really is Beck into? What happened with Reacher and Quinn back in the day? Sure, you know Reacher's gonna make it, but who else isn't? The action in the book is sharp, well choreographed, and visceral as hell. Not sure if there was a typically cookie cutter Reacher love story in this book (which I fucking hate, as it'd probably shave 50-100 pages from these typically 500-page books.) but I was very pleased with it, so I'm pretty sure there wasn't, or at least was super ignorable. I recommend those who consider this series to be vapid trash possibly give this book a shot. It's much better and tightly focused than the earlier Child books, and does even possess a bit of educational value (even if most of it's on lots of tough guy shit and gun-porn.) ...more I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social con I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies. He embraces it. Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values. He defends those he loves, those he does allow into his world, with a loyalty bar none while never letting go of the notion that he is alone and being perfectly comfortable with that. I read one, and within two months read all 15 books with an appetite that couldn't get enough. Enough said, HR ...more 2 stars for the back story. 4 stars for the rest. Another fun tough guy Reacher story. Several scenes where he takes out bad guys, my favorite parts. STORY BRIEF: Reacher thought he killed bad guy Quinn ten years ago. He recently saw Quinn on the street. He learns that FBI agents are trying to catch Quinn and Beck who work together. They believe Beck is into drug smuggling. Reacher gets hired by Beck and is now undercover. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: There is a great scene in the beginning with Reacher thwa 2 stars for the back story. 4 stars for the rest. Another fun tough guy Reacher story. Several scenes where he takes out bad guys, my favorite parts. STORY BRIEF: Reacher thought he killed bad guy Quinn ten years ago. He recently saw Quinn on the street. He learns that FBI agents are trying to catch Quinn and Beck who work together. They believe Beck is into drug smuggling. Reacher gets hired by Beck and is now undercover. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: There is a great scene in the beginning with Reacher thwarting a kidnaping attempt. There\u2019s a fun scene later where Reacher kills two men with one stone. It weighed ten pounds. I still laugh when I think about it. What a tough guy. Ok so this is another typical Reacher story. It\u2019s fun. It\u2019s escapist. There are some really bad guys, and Reacher does them in. There were a few parts where I was thinking, don\u2019t do that, or why are you doing that, or this is illogical. But it\u2019s best if I try not to be too logical or analytical. Just enjoy it. It\u2019s revenge, justice, and vigilantism. If civil and legal rights for bad guys are important to you, you may not like this. Even though I had a few grumbles about the book, as soon as I finished it, I went straight to the next one. These Reacher books keep me entertained and engaged. I did not like the way the author told the back story from ten years ago. I would have preferred the author tell it completely at the beginning of the book and then do the current day story without interruption. The back story was broken into about a dozen pieces, with little chunks thrown at us throughout the book. It was distracting and interrupting. At times I was confused until a character\u2019s name was said which told me whether it was now or then. And, the back story was not very good. Also, I would have liked an epilogue to find out what happened to Beck and his family. THE SERIES: This is book 7 in the Jack Reacher series. I gave 4 or more stars to all of the first 6 books except for Running Blind, gave that one 2 \u00bd. NARRATOR: The narrator Dick Hill was very good. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 13 hrs and 51 mins. Swearing language: moderate. Sexual language: none. Number of sex scenes: one referred to not shown. Setting: late April, 2003, mostly Maine plus other east coast locations in the U.S. Book copyright: 2003. Genre: mystery suspense thriller. Ending: Good. ...more The Jack Reacher books by Lee Child are like crack. The action is fast paced, the writing quick. The novels read like the fast paced action thrillers they are. I've read two of Child's Reacher novels ( the first and the second ) and while I wanted to read them in order my experience with them is that each is self contained. These are not sequential novels per se: one need not read the previous to understand the current. Begin a Reacher novel and you are instantly brought into a world that every ch The Jack Reacher books by Lee Child are like crack. The action is fast paced, the writing quick. The novels read like the fast paced action thrillers they are. I've read two of Child's Reacher novels ( the first and the second ) and while I wanted to read them in order my experience with them is that each is self contained. These are not sequential novels per se: one need not read the previous to understand the current. Begin a Reacher novel and you are instantly brought into a world that every child, at one point, has dreamed of entering. Reacher's world is singular, elusive, wandering. He's a man who roams from place to place, who stays almost completely off the grid, and yet somehow manages to get himself into the most remarkable amount of trouble. Persuader sucks in the reader from the first page, from the first line. \"The cop climbed out of his car exactly four minutes before he got shot.\" At that moment, fourteen words into the novel, you know you'll only put this book down under extreme duress. I was lucky to have started this book on the final day of my trip to Mexico and had an extra three days before my wife went back to work in order to finish it. Still, reading it was an endurance test that Reacher himself would be proud of. In Persuader, our everyman hero finds himself working undercover in the house of a rug importer who may or may not be working with a man Reacher thought he had killed ten years before. For the first half of this breathless novel we discover nothing about the man Reacher is seeking other than he had done something very bad during Reacher's time as an army MP. As usual, Reacher is alone amid a sea of unknowns: who is a friend, who an enemy, and how long can he remain hidden in plain sight. Ostensibly he has no more than a week at the most to accomplish his goals. But this is a Lee Child novel. The sands of time will run out much quicker than Reacher would like. It's a pun for me to say he's lost in a sea of unknowns, because much of the action of the novel takes place in or around a mansion perched on the edge of the cold Atlantic on the outskirts of Portland, Maine. There Reacher has managed to get himself hired as a bodyguard. The action unfolds both slowly and rapidly as Reacher plays both sides of the fence and tries to save the real undercover federal agent who went missing weeks ago while uncovering the secrets of this mansion and the family who occupy it. It's hard to write too much about the story without giving anything away. I can say that I was completely drawn into the story until about 80% into the book when I was reading only to get the reading done. It was like running my first marathon: the beginning smooth and easy and fun and you feel like you can run forever, but when you hit mile 20 you don't want to pay attention to the scenery anymore, don't want to enjoy the run, you just want the thing to be over. Part of that feeling had to do with a few weeknesses in the plot itself. \"They were glaring errors in our thinking and they all came back to haunt me.\" I can suspend much disbelief in the abilities of Jack Reacher, the tasks he can perform and the ordeals he can survive. But there are other aspects of the novel that are weaker. The bad guy, for example, who smartly had a very brief physical appearance. Quinn is talked about often but rarely seen and by the time we catch our first glimpse of him we already hate him, not for his actions but for the things we're told he has done without being told what those bad things were. In the end we discover the kind of monster he can be when we learn what he has done. And he does it again. Brutality that knows no bounds. Still, his reasons for doing what he did the first time seemed pretty thin. He was a petty criminal who got caught, but the way he is described in the novel makes him seem like the kind of man who has done that sort of thing repeatedly in his life. (Which he might have--perhaps that's the implication I didn't get.) It's a minor quibble and certainly one that did not detract from my sheer enjoyment of this novel. And learning a bit about the mystery man's past added an extra layer of thrill to this novel. I don't know how much about Reacher we learn in novels three through six but in this one we discover a little of his past and learn a little about what makes the man tick. In the end it is Reacher himself who tells us everything we really need to know about him. \"I try to do the right thing. I think the reasons don't really matter. Whatever, I like to see the right thing done.\" ...more It's really hard to say something about a Jack Reacher book--in a very real sense, if you've read one, you've read 'em all (maybe this changes after book 7, but I doubt it). But dang it all if you don't come back for more and more and more--like Pringles, or Fritos, etc. Great action; totally outlandish, but (in the moment definitely) believable plot; lots of testosterone-y fun. Two things I'd like to mention about this book. First, there's this fad in TV lately where you watch a scene or two at It's really hard to say something about a Jack Reacher book--in a very real sense, if you've read one, you've read 'em all (maybe this changes after book 7, but I doubt it). But dang it all if you don't come back for more and more and more--like Pringles, or Fritos, etc. Great action; totally outlandish, but (in the moment definitely) believable plot; lots of testosterone-y fun. Two things I'd like to mention about this book. First, there's this fad in TV lately where you watch a scene or two at the top of the show, and then the chyron flashes \"X days earlier\" and you get to see how events led up to this, and even get a better picture of what happened. It's a tired and overused gimmick. But in '03 when this was published, it wasn't. And even if it was tired then, Child does it right, and I would've been totally on board with it then. Great hook to begin the book. Really great. Secondly, I couldn't help but be impressed with the way that Child laid out Reacher's motivation to hunt down this particular criminal in bits and pieces, scattered throughout the present day action. Sure, it was predictable after a certain point, but it was skillfully done. Giving Reacher the proper motivation each time to go after the baddie has to be a struggle, especially since it has to be sufficient motivation to get him to perform superhuman tasks. This was one of Child's best efforts in that regard. One more thing that I just thought of--since Parker's God Save the Child and The Judas Goat I've been a sucker for a fight between big, tough hero and impossibly huge, strong, psychotic villain, and the one here delivers the goods in spades. Loved it. ...more Audible. I listened to the end, so I must give it at least two stars. Interested in getting a sense of genre fiction. REacher the hero. Mainly the lonely guy, can't see much else here. Lover. Loyal. A certain ethic about who it's okay to slaughter. A long painful history your'e supposed to care about. Can't even count all of the folks he kills in the book. The main evil guy he kills twice, pretty clever I suppose--once in the flashback but obviously not really and once in the present of the stor Audible. I listened to the end, so I must give it at least two stars. Interested in getting a sense of genre fiction. REacher the hero. Mainly the lonely guy, can't see much else here. Lover. Loyal. A certain ethic about who it's okay to slaughter. A long painful history your'e supposed to care about. Can't even count all of the folks he kills in the book. The main evil guy he kills twice, pretty clever I suppose--once in the flashback but obviously not really and once in the present of the story. In both ladies he beds and also \"mentors\" or supports. And tries to save, sometimes succesful sometimes not, that helps propels the story. Failure to save the damsel. Why do I read to the end. I'm propelled by a plot. And also just interested in how folks write novels that make them rich and popular. The violence here just wasn't balanced by something in terms of social or psychology that some novels aspire too. Don't think I'll read that many more Childs. But I did listen to the whole thing. . . . . . ...more Another exciting Jack Reacher adventure. Each time I pick one of these up on a Daily Deal I always think that it will be my last, but Lee Child has a great pen for action-adventure. In this addition Jack finds himself knee deep in a covert mission where he is to extract an under cover operative that is caught up in a drug opperation, however, all things are not what they may seem. When he infiltrates and gains the trust of some of the key players involved, he starts to realize that the whole con Another exciting Jack Reacher adventure. Each time I pick one of these up on a Daily Deal I always think that it will be my last, but Lee Child has a great pen for action-adventure. In this addition Jack finds himself knee deep in a covert mission where he is to extract an under cover operative that is caught up in a drug opperation, however, all things are not what they may seem. When he infiltrates and gains the trust of some of the key players involved, he starts to realize that the whole convoluted mission leads him back into his past. A lot of gun fights and the normal Reacher bravado, surrounded by some pretty interesting characters and a good, twisting plot. As always Dick Hill's narration added something extra to the story. I will be picking up the next Daily Deal in this series. It always keeps me wanting for more. ...more Books can cause real pain. As the world beyond the room goes silently into the embrace of Morpheus, hapless guys stuck with an unputdownable read, keep rubbing their eyes, and carry on. It happens whenever a Jack Reacher novel gets picked up by me. It happens especially if Reacher has some unfinished business, that must be settled NOW. Because, right then the book becomes an unfinished business, and I become Jack Reacher. Unfortunately, the climax of this book came as a massive disappointment. Pr Books can cause real pain. As the world beyond the room goes silently into the embrace of Morpheus, hapless guys stuck with an unputdownable read, keep rubbing their eyes, and carry on. It happens whenever a Jack Reacher novel gets picked up by me. It happens especially if Reacher has some unfinished business, that must be settled NOW. Because, right then the book becomes an unfinished business, and I become Jack Reacher. Unfortunately, the climax of this book came as a massive disappointment. Prior to that, the vicious and bloody narrative had pushed me to the edge like a true sadist, but then..... Great beginning. Awesome arc of characters and story developed over hundreds of pages. Just don't read the last forty odd pages, and imagine the conclusion yourself. That would be better. ...more This is the book that put Lee Child on my must-always-read list. I hated Killing Floor because (1) obviously Lee had never been to Georgia when he wrote this and (2) I wasn't yet published when it came out, so I had to be a jealous hater. Both were remedied by the time I read Persuader, and I could love this book for the pure reading pleasure that it is. Also, I had met Lee by then and he is so handsome and dreamy that it's hard not to see his beautiful, sensitive eyes whenever I think of Jack Re This is the book that put Lee Child on my must-always-read list. I hated Killing Floor because (1) obviously Lee had never been to Georgia when he wrote this and (2) I wasn't yet published when it came out, so I had to be a jealous hater. Both were remedied by the time I read Persuader, and I could love this book for the pure reading pleasure that it is. Also, I had met Lee by then and he is so handsome and dreamy that it's hard not to see his beautiful, sensitive eyes whenever I think of Jack Reacher. Of note: Lee told me that his research for Killing Floor was watching My Cousin Vinny over and over again and I figured that was punishment enough (and it's set in Alabama, so that makes more sense that people would be so stupid; haha, I'm playin' you, big AL. War Eagle!) ...more Jack Reacher witnesses a kidnapping attempt and obviously he has to intervene. Only something goes wrong and a cop ends up dead. As he tries to let the kid go and be on his way before shit hits the fan, only he ends up somewhere he hadn\u2019t planned on. This plot is a complex one. With kidnapping, drugs, dead man walking Jack Reacher has a lot to deal with. But is his presence in the thick of things a mere coincidence? Is he really running the show in this plot or is he being made to dance to someo Jack Reacher witnesses a kidnapping attempt and obviously he has to intervene. Only something goes wrong and a cop ends up dead. As he tries to let the kid go and be on his way before shit hits the fan, only he ends up somewhere he hadn\u2019t planned on. This plot is a complex one. With kidnapping, drugs, dead man walking Jack Reacher has a lot to deal with. But is his presence in the thick of things a mere coincidence? Is he really running the show in this plot or is he being made to dance to someone else\u2019s tune? With help from someone on the outside, Reacher gets ready to bust a drug gang but ends up blowing up a plot that is a whole lot bigger than it first seemed. Jack Reacher\u2019s attention to details and his deductive skills come in handy as usual. The readers are taken for a thrilling ride with Jack Reacher as he slowly discovers and deduces his way through. With characters whose allegiance cannot be trusted and characters with many shades of grey, Jack Reacher has to work hard to get to the bottom of everything. The lead antagonist in this book is a guy who you will enjoy seeing getting beat by Reacher. The best part about the book is the way Jack Reacher is portrayed at the beginning of the book. He seemed like an alien inhabiting Jack Reacher\u2019s body. Really! For those of us who have read about Jack Reacher\u2019s escapades, his actions seemed very wrong. It made me wonder whether the author planned to bring a shift in his character or there is already something going on that we do not know about. Well, which way are you swaying? Read the book to find out if you are right! The bottom line of the book is that the readers will probably be able to guess who and what aspect of the plot. However, getting there along with Reacher is going to be fun! http://www.ddsreviews.in/2016/09/pers... ...more I really almost gave this 3 star's based on the fact that it took for ever for things to happen here. It was fairly predictable early on as well. One of the things that I enjoy about Reacher books is how he seamlessly gets into these situations. Except, you look back and think it was flawlessly integrated into his life. Not out of the ordinary. This seamed out of the ordinary for me. When Reacher was in his \"situation\" at the Beck's house though he made it feel seamless. Once that train left you I really almost gave this 3 star's based on the fact that it took for ever for things to happen here. It was fairly predictable early on as well. One of the things that I enjoy about Reacher books is how he seamlessly gets into these situations. Except, you look back and think it was flawlessly integrated into his life. Not out of the ordinary. This seamed out of the ordinary for me. When Reacher was in his \"situation\" at the Beck's house though he made it feel seamless. Once that train left you felt you were on it but as if you were thrown onto the train, not allowed to ask questions or open your eyes. Once again the 2nd was played stronger than the 1rst half in this edition. I think Child know's that people will finish his books by this point. You're too invested. Honestly the next 2 could suck and I will still atleast finish them. I was busy this week so I did this via audiobook. I like it when books keep their narrators from book to book. I've done some of these on the Kindle or via the iPod and I've enjoyed both. When the same (great) narrator is kept it's as if you never left off the previous. I enjoy that. You've got to finish strong with this and the ending is abrupt (in my opinion). You will like it. I'm glad I read it when I look back. The added story with Cole really made this 2nd half. I enjoyed it and it earned the overall rating a 4th star. Enjoy. ...more Author Lee Child clearly has a love-hate relationship with guns in his novel \"Persuader\". It's apparent that he does not like the ease with which anyone can buy or sell guns in this country, and he has disdain for gun dealers, legal or illegal, who sell guns without any care about who they are selling to. On the other hands, guns abound throughout the novel, described in loving detail and used quite frequently. His hero, Reacher is similarly contradictory: he does the right thing but not always Author Lee Child clearly has a love-hate relationship with guns in his novel \"Persuader\". It's apparent that he does not like the ease with which anyone can buy or sell guns in this country, and he has disdain for gun dealers, legal or illegal, who sell guns without any care about who they are selling to. On the other hands, guns abound throughout the novel, described in loving detail and used quite frequently. His hero, Reacher is similarly contradictory: he does the right thing but not always for the right reasons. In this novel, Reacher accidentally bumps into a man he once knew in his military career, a man who should have been lying dead at the bottom of the ocean. He quickly finds himself involved in an off-the-books federal investigation of a drug dealer. Reacher infiltrates the cartel, installing himself as an undercover agent. As always, Reacher finds himself in over his head, but his fight-or-die philosophy constantly keeps him in the game. Reacher always finishes the mission, even if it kills him. \"Persuader\" is non-stop action and suspense, and it proves that Child just gets better and better with each Reacher novel. ...more The first chapter isn\u2019t bad, a fairly exciting action scene, although it doesn\u2019t make complete sense. The last line of Chapter One is startling and turns the story on its head. It\u2019s great, in a way. The second chapter explains why Jack Reacher was there, and then it gets way too complicated and repetitious for me. A paragraph or two of back-story would suffice. The narrative breaks two of the rules I tell my students: Don\u2019t repeat and don\u2019t explain. The worst thing you can do is go through the p The first chapter isn\u2019t bad, a fairly exciting action scene, although it doesn\u2019t make complete sense. The last line of Chapter One is startling and turns the story on its head. It\u2019s great, in a way. The second chapter explains why Jack Reacher was there, and then it gets way too complicated and repetitious for me. A paragraph or two of back-story would suffice. The narrative breaks two of the rules I tell my students: Don\u2019t repeat and don\u2019t explain. The worst thing you can do is go through the planning of an action with the reader and then go through the action itself. The only time that works is when the action goes horribly wrong. Here, the novel goes through the action and then through an endless explanation in flashback. It is so boring. I don\u2019t care about any of this, not the characters, not the story, not the set-up, not the crime family, not the long-lost dead guy. Jack Reacher seems like a clich\u00e9: ex-army, highly trained with guns, blah-blah-blah. I couldn\u2019t care less. I quit on Page 38. I don\u2019t know why anyone would read further. ...more Picked this up at Amazon since it was free and had it on my digital bookshelf for awhile. Due to internet outage and unable to buy another book to read I decided to try this one out. So for with about 60 percent of the book finished I have really enjoyed this fast moving story of a former military MP out to finish one of his failures have to go undercover in a drug gang which is being run by a group higher up. It does not matter that I have not read any of the other novels in this series since th Picked this up at Amazon since it was free and had it on my digital bookshelf for awhile. Due to internet outage and unable to buy another book to read I decided to try this one out. So for with about 60 percent of the book finished I have really enjoyed this fast moving story of a former military MP out to finish one of his failures have to go undercover in a drug gang which is being run by a group higher up. It does not matter that I have not read any of the other novels in this series since the book stands alone as far as the story goes. Just good tight suspence. ...more This is my least favorite of the eight Reacher books I have now read. It was just too \"over the top\" for me. I could not suspend my disbelief far enough. Also, I found the jumping back in time ten years to past events about Kohl did not advance this story. The good parts were the author's knowledge of weapons. I'm a Vietnam vet and former Marine and I have some knowledge of guns, yet I did learn much about newer modern weapons. This really was Bond type stuff, definitely my favourite Reacher so far. I loved the location, all based on the wild Atlantic coast round Portland, and Jack was certainly on form. Killed loads of baddies, some romantic interlude, and left as usual at the end to carry on roaming. Fab. I loved this book. It kept me gripped from beginning to end. One of the best so far in the series. I\u2019m unsure as to whether or not I have had this rant before. I feel as though I may have touched upon it somewhat, but this time I really need to get it off my chest. For that, I apologise in advance for the following paragraph\u2026 Why does Lee Child keep changing what perspective he is writing from? I understand authors changing perspective, wanting to writing in a different way, but when it is done within the same series it annoys me. I want consistent reads. Flickering between first and third per I\u2019m unsure as to whether or not I have had this rant before. I feel as though I may have touched upon it somewhat, but this time I really need to get it off my chest. For that, I apologise in advance for the following paragraph\u2026 Why does Lee Child keep changing what perspective he is writing from? I understand authors changing perspective, wanting to writing in a different way, but when it is done within the same series it annoys me. I want consistent reads. Flickering between first and third person Jack Reacher stories is really bugging me. It is part of the reason why I read them so far apart \u2013 and, even then, I still manage to find myself annoyed when he changes perspective again. I know this is very much a personal thing, I know most will consider me crazy for being so annoyed by such a small aspect, but it really bugs me. I want one way or the other for the telling of the same character\u2019s story. And rant over. Sorry, again. Okay, so I\u2019ve said before that the Lee Child reads are somewhat of a guilty pleasure. I\u2019m not the biggest fan of his writing style, but I love the Jack Reacher stories. They pull me in, keep me entertained enough to overlook his writing style. Sometimes the stories are better at keeping my attention away from my dislike than others; and in the case of this story, we have a very strong one. I was pulled in, wanting to see what came next. As I read the first chapter, I was somewhat confused. I sat thinking \u2018this does not sound like the Reacher I have come to enjoy during the first six books\u2019, and I was ready to throw my book out of the window. Then came the last line. The last line in that first chapter\u2026 well, it guaranteed that I was hooked. I wanted an explanation. I wanted to know what was going on. I knew there was something good coming. My belief was confirmed, with the story being one of my favourites in the Jack Reacher series thus far. The fact that I gave it a four star rather than a three, as I have with quite a few of the others, shows just how much I enjoyed this one. Once I was started, I was unable to put it down. The action and intrigue kept up, leaving me constantly wanting more. I could sit here and say my usual rant about his writing \u2013 telling you how I feel it is lacking in style and is more than a little bit repetitive \u2013 but if you\u2019ve read any of the other Reacher books then you know what to expect. This one is much like the others, giving you all you expect from a Lee Child novel in terms of both writing and the story. In short, as soon as that sentence hit me, I was done for. ...more This book is written from the male POV without alienating the female reader. The storyline centers on gun, drugs, and essentially some violence - but it isn't \"in your face\" or glorified. No excessive swearing (though some, in context). Also: this is my first Lee Child novel and I had not read any of the previous Reacher stories. That being said, I still really enjoyed it. I read this on my Kindle and found myself slipping it out of my purse and reading a few pages here and there throughout the d This book is written from the male POV without alienating the female reader. The storyline centers on gun, drugs, and essentially some violence - but it isn't \"in your face\" or glorified. No excessive swearing (though some, in context). Also: this is my first Lee Child novel and I had not read any of the previous Reacher stories. That being said, I still really enjoyed it. I read this on my Kindle and found myself slipping it out of my purse and reading a few pages here and there throughout the day, and looking forward to my nightly bedtime reading - a sure sign that I'm enjoying what I'm reading. I often notice writing quirks I don't like. But in this novel, I instead was pulled along for the journey in a story that is a page-turner. The plot is interesting and not easy guessable, while at the same time is not so over the top that you finish and go \"what? Huh?!\" Upon re-reading, you would indeed find the clues dropped along the way. The action scenes have enough violence to be believable to the story (and there are multiple deaths) without being violence-for-the-sake-of-violence. The characters are multi-faceted and interesting, and not your stereotypical folks. The son, in particular, was very interesting to me - and while not a master character or central to the story, the author gave him substance and made him interesting. If this were a movie, you'd see a lot of faces you'd recognize - all those great character actors out there would identify with most of the cast in this book with interesting roles to play. The location - a house on the beach - even plays a \"character\" and is easily conjurable in the mind. The only downside for me was excessive description in some areas. I can tell when the author is giving too much description when I find myself flipping pages and scanning them without really \"reading\" them. So there were SOME areas where I flipped to get to the \"guts\" of the story. From a woman's POV, this is a great action adventure that still includes the male aspects of the genre without alienating me, and I was sad to see it come to an end. I recommend this book - and for women in particular who have trouble finding good reads in this genre. ...more This story was a mishmash of many things. It was exciting, tedious, emotional, a bit boring at times, confusing at times and exhilarating also. Reacher goes off book with a few DOJ agents to help track and bring down an enemy long thought dead by his own hands. Xavier Quinn was the worst enemy he had ever fought. The man had done terrible things and to see him alive and riding in a limo in Boston shocks Reacher to the core. Memories and regrets drive Reacher to make sure he gets the job done wel This story was a mishmash of many things. It was exciting, tedious, emotional, a bit boring at times, confusing at times and exhilarating also. Reacher goes off book with a few DOJ agents to help track and bring down an enemy long thought dead by his own hands. Xavier Quinn was the worst enemy he had ever fought. The man had done terrible things and to see him alive and riding in a limo in Boston shocks Reacher to the core. Memories and regrets drive Reacher to make sure he gets the job done well and good this time because it's purely personal. Reacher has to infiltrate an organization, rescue an agent and make sure Xavier is truly dead this time. ...more This is probably near the bottom of my list of favorite Reacher novels. Reacher goes undercover at the isolated Maine estate of a rich dude who is likely a major dealer of some kind, in order to get at an old enemy. As usual, I learned some things that may or may not ever come in handy: 1) Your chances at being killed in Russian Roulette are much much lower than 1 in 6 2) The word \"sabotage\" comes from the French word \"sabot,\" which means little boot. It comes from labor movements back in the day This is probably near the bottom of my list of favorite Reacher novels. Reacher goes undercover at the isolated Maine estate of a rich dude who is likely a major dealer of some kind, in order to get at an old enemy. As usual, I learned some things that may or may not ever come in handy: 1) Your chances at being killed in Russian Roulette are much much lower than 1 in 6 2) The word \"sabotage\" comes from the French word \"sabot,\" which means little boot. It comes from labor movements back in the day, when destroying mechanical equipment meant kicking it apart with your little boots 3) Metal detectors have a dead zone at the bottom, because men's dress shoes often contain a metal shaft in the sole to give them structure. Why this one didn't work for me: the back story flashbacks about Dominique bogged down the pacing tremendously Child was unable to make Quinn a fleshed out villain because he's basically absent the whole time the building up of Paulie as a villain felt forced and unnatural ...more Not the best Reacher novel I've read, but, certainly, not the worst, either. But, I did like it. As always, action packed and very good writing. Lee Child knows how to keep one's interest in a book. He seldom lets up on the action. When he does, it's because he's setting up the next set of action. I'll keep reading this series. Other authors try to get this much action in and Child does it. During an operation on some drug dealers, Reacher is reminded of another operation earlier in his life whe Not the best Reacher novel I've read, but, certainly, not the worst, either. But, I did like it. As always, action packed and very good writing. Lee Child knows how to keep one's interest in a book. He seldom lets up on the action. When he does, it's because he's setting up the next set of action. I'll keep reading this series. Other authors try to get this much action in and Child does it. During an operation on some drug dealers, Reacher is reminded of another operation earlier in his life when he was in the military. This becomes a recurring scenario during Persuader . It also is a character setting technique, although, Reacher's character doesn't need need much setting up. He is what he is. One either likes him or not. He doesn't much care either way. Personally, I like him. ...more Reacher sees a guy he thought he killed 10 years ago & the adventure begins. He is drawn into a criminal organization as an unofficial DEA undercover spy. But Reacher learns there are other spies which complicate matters. Quinn, his arch nemesis, is nowhere to be found & Reacher is isolated in the fortress on the sea. It takes him a while to learn what is going on. I find it very difficult to believe that anyone could be shot twice in the forehead with a 22 and once in the chest & th Reacher sees a guy he thought he killed 10 years ago & the adventure begins. He is drawn into a criminal organization as an unofficial DEA undercover spy. But Reacher learns there are other spies which complicate matters. Quinn, his arch nemesis, is nowhere to be found & Reacher is isolated in the fortress on the sea. It takes him a while to learn what is going on. I find it very difficult to believe that anyone could be shot twice in the forehead with a 22 and once in the chest & then fall 120 feet onto rocks in the ocean and live but that's just me. I'm funny that way. The envelope really gets pushed in this book but Lee Child keeps it interesting with an undercover spy no one knows about. In the end, Reacher leaves the scene with carnage everywhere but they all deserved it so it's okay. One of Lee Child's better Reacher novels. ...more If I could only get the vision of Tom Cruise out of my head when I'm reading Jack Reacher novels. I like his work, but surely they can find another actor who's at least a foot taller. And Cruise is returning for another Reacher film. Anyway, I enjoyed the story in persuader, and Reacher's usual antics. My only complaint with Lee Child's writing is that he goes overboard with details. I don't need to spend two pages finding out how someone exited a car door. Being a writer, I have to wonder how he If I could only get the vision of Tom Cruise out of my head when I'm reading Jack Reacher novels. I like his work, but surely they can find another actor who's at least a foot taller. And Cruise is returning for another Reacher film. Anyway, I enjoyed the story in persuader, and Reacher's usual antics. My only complaint with Lee Child's writing is that he goes overboard with details. I don't need to spend two pages finding out how someone exited a car door. Being a writer, I have to wonder how he gets away with run on sentences, with no punctuation, for up to a whole page at times. Fame and style I guess. Enough said. The book is a good action thriller that has me looking forward to my next Reacher escapade. ...more", "Title": "Persuader"},
