{"Comments": "<+++>Robert A. Heinlein: In Dialogue with His Century: Volume 1 (1907-1948): Learning Curve</+++>Robert Anson Heinlein is generally regarded as one of the best known and most important science fiction writers of the 20th century. When \u2018the Big Three\u2019 are mentioned,<---M> it\u2019s usually Heinlein</---M>, Asimov and Clarke who are the authors who brought SF up to date in the golden years of the 1940\u2019s to 1970\u2019s. Since their deaths, whilst Asimov and Clarke\u2019s lives have been written of in some detail, Heinlein\u2019s personal life has been very secret. In his lifetime, questions about Robert\u2019s life, rather than his Robert Anson Heinlein is generally regarded as one of the best known and most important science fiction writers of the 20th century. When \u2018the Big Three\u2019 are mentioned, it\u2019s usually Heinlein, Asimov and Clarke who are the authors who brought SF up to date in the golden years of the 1940\u2019s to 1970\u2019s. Since their deaths, whilst Asimov and Clarke\u2019s lives have been written of in some detail, Heinlein\u2019s personal life has been very secret. In his lifetime, questions about Robert\u2019s life, rather than his writing, were usually either totally ignored, or angrily denied by the author. Alexei Panshin\u2019s Dimensions of Heinlein has a background tale about this as vibrant as some of Heinlein\u2019s fiction. So what to make of this authorized first volume of a biography of Robert Heinlein? Well, the author of the biography himself is a recognised \u2018independent scholar\u2019. <---A>William</---A> J. Patterson\u2019s knowledge of Heinlein\u2019s work is quite well-known. He founded the Heinlein Journal in 1997 and co-founded the Heinlein Society with Virginia Heinlein in 1998. So the credentials seem to be there. It must also be noted that this hefty book has not been rushed in its production, with considerable time to research and write it. Patterson\u2019s website says, \u2018On January 1, 2000, Mrs. Heinlein phoned Bill and asked him to undertake the formal biography of her husband, which he commenced researching in February 2000. The research phase occupied the years 2000 through about 2003, and he commenced writing in the latter part of 2002. Mrs. Heinlein saw and approved the first 120,000 words of the biography (including the Heinlein family history which has been moved to an Appendix in the published first volume of the biography).<---F> Following Mrs</---F>. Heinlein's death in January 2003, he was asked by the newly-formed Heinlein Prize Trust, to consult with the Robert A. Heinlein Archive of Special Collections and Archives of the University of California, Santa Cruz's McHenry Library in integrating the material coming to the collection from Mrs. Heinlein's working files. As there was very nearly as much \"new\" material as already existed in the Archive, he had to make extensive re-organization of the files, preparing them for public accessibility. The research phase re-commenced for the next two years, as the writing simultaneously progressed. Each volume of the biography was drafted at approximately 375,000 words, and then cut to approximately 300,000 for submission in 2006.\u2019 So; at least three years of research, with at least four years of writing. Access to the Heinlein Archives. Direct contact with the last Mrs Heinlein whilst writing, presumably to check and confirm details. What could go wrong? Let\u2019s start with the positives. The first volume is lengthy, detailed and readable. It deals with Bobby Heinlein\u2019s early life, his childhood, education and career in the Navy and the beginning of his writing career. It ends just after his fortieth birthday, with his marriage to Virginia Gerstenfeld. From this, many things can be learned. Bobby was a child of many, who was always in his older brother\u2019s shadow even at the Naval Academy of Annapolis. His family lived in seemingly continuous poverty, Bobby having to work from an early age to provide money for school equipment, books and clothes. This continued even to Naval Academy, where he struggled constantly to stay financially solvent. His time in Naval training was generally enjoyed, though not entirely outstanding and not without some issues. Robert learned pretty quickly that there were times when he should keep his mouth shut, but didn\u2019t. He took up fencing and enjoyed it, though he excelled at the academic side of the Academy more that the physical training. A bout of tuberculosis soon turned Bob\u2019s naval career around and meant that early retirement ensued. This must have been a hammer-blow to the young Heinlein who, based on what is said in this book, loved the naval life and was clearly aiming for greater things. He then turned to politics and helped in the campaign of Upton Sinclair's socialist EPIC (End Poverty in California) movement in the early 1930s. Horrified by the dirty tricks campaign of his opposition, Heinlein himself ran for the California State Assembly in 1938, but he was unsuccessful. He then turned away from politics and focused on writing SF, mainly under the guidance of John Campbell, legendary editor of Astounding/Analog. His first story, Life Line, was published in 1939 in Astounding. The beginning of the Second World War for the US in 1942 meant that Heinlein tried repeatedly to re-enlist for active service, though this was (just as repeatedly) denied. Consequently he spent the war working for the U.S. Navy in aeronautical engineering, working at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard in Pennsylvania, recruiting Isaac Asimov and L. Sprague de Camp in the process. After the war, Heinlein returned to writing. Sales to The Saturday Evening Post meant that Heinlein, unlike many of his contemporaries, broke into \u2018the big time\u2019. Reaching readers that didn\u2019t read SF in the pulps, he was one of the first SF writers to be published in hardback, something almost unknown up to this point. This book ends as his science-fiction career was starting to (erm) rocket. So: what does the reader gain from reading this biography? I guess the main interest is that there is lots of information here that you won\u2019t get anywhere else, based on access to the Heinlein Archives that is not available to other biographers. The $6 000 000 question though is whether we need to know as much information as is given here. Frankly, no. I suspect that this book, as readable as it is, will cater for an audience that already has an interest, and probably (like me) for the SF aspects. As you might gather, this doesn\u2019t happen until after the midway point of this large volume. Consequently some readers may be disappointed, or get bored with the lengthy details of Heinlein\u2019s childhood and naval training. However the detailing of Robert\u2019s early life does have a purpose, as there are clues here that Heinlein\u2019s background and experiences are reflected in what and how he wrote later in life. His hard upbringing may have led to his somewhat hard-nosed approach to business. Heinlein\u2019s first forty years seem generally to have been a succession of difficult times: from his difficult childhood to the time as his SF career begins (motivated by a need to make money) and takes off, Heinlein goes a number of trials, leading through to two divorces and a third marriage as the book ends. Each time Heinlein\u2019s life reverts to new beginnings and it is clear that life is often hard. For those with an interest in his connections with other SF writers this only really appears at about halfway through the book. There are some interesting insights about other SF writers along the way: Asimov was like an over-eager puppy, L. Ron Hubbard was a charismatic person who seems to have fallen out with Heinlein partly due to Hubbard\u2019s complicated dalliances with women. Forrest Ackerman was an annoyance. In particular, Heinlein\u2019s relationship with John Campbell is very interesting. The letters here show that they were friends, and close friends, at this time of Heinlein\u2019s life. However this clearly did not continue throughout their lifetimes. (Bearing in mind this relationship I have always been surprised at how little was said about Campbell by Heinlein on Campbell\u2019s death in 1971.) The business arrangements of Street and Smith, publishers of Astounding/Analog, clearly affected their relationship and this no doubt will be expounded on in the second volume. This leads us to another aspect covered here. Heinlein\u2019s romantic involvements were many and varied. He led a life that involved affairs, open marriages, nudism and nude photography. What is most surprising here is how much detail of Heinlein\u2019s marriages before his marriage to Virginia Gerstenfeld is covered. Virginia and Heinlein\u2019s second wife, Leslyn, became friends before Virginia and Robert started their personal relationship. There are some negatives. There are some astonishingly glib leaps of faith made in the narrative. Patterson, in the first page of his Introduction, nearly jumped the shark for me by claiming that the death of Robert A. Heinlein was an event of Elvis/Kennedy proportions. Whilst I accept that it was a major upset (it was for me!), I really doubt that it was of that scale, as much as I would\u2019ve liked it to be. (So too Asimov and Clarke, for that matter.) Added to the facts that Heinlein was 80 and also that his health had been poor (if not to mention critical) for a good few years prior to that, it was sad but not really a shock. Being an authorised biography can give a reader the impression that we may not be seeing the whole picture of this complicated person. Patterson does tend to give a positive spin on it, though I was surprised, and pleased, that not all was as positive as it could have been, had this been an attempt to canonise the man, which was my first impression. There are others through the book. Jo Walton at Tor.com has also said that some of the details may not necessarily pass muster. There is also the issue of where to draw the fine line. Do we need to know the details of Heinlein\u2019s love life, his sexual habits and his letters to his lovers? There are quotes and inferences made about those, including some quite ghastly intimate extracts from letters written by Heinlein when his second marriage broke up and he was living in secret with Ginny. Whilst the point can be made that these help the reader outline what was going on with Heinlein whilst he was writing some of his classic work, I also felt a little voyeuristic in reading what were quite intimate comments clearly not meant for public reading. For all its faults, what this book does do is give the reader an idea of the complicated character that was Robert Anson Heinlein. Annoyingly self-opinionated, extremely political, personally and romantically intricate, it does at least give some ideas of where Bobby/Bob/Robert developed his views on social community, politics and lifestyle that appeared through his fiction. If you want to get an idea of what a complex, infuriating and opinionated person Heinlein was, you\u2019re not going to get a more complete picture than this. Whilst it is perhaps limited by being an authorised biography, I was surprised by some of the details given here, particularly when such details have never been made available before. For anyone interested in the creation of a genre, this is fascinating and perhaps revelatory stuff. For me that was the interest. Heinlein\u2019s background in the military and in engineering as well as politics clearly were reflected in some of his writing. So too some of his moral views, from his means of aggressive management to his sexual habits and open marriages. I now reread my Heinlein with a greater understanding of the man who wrote this material and now see more clearly how his personal views affected his work. Whilst I still may not agree with some of his views personally, I now at least understand the context and the reasons for his views. And though I have reservations, surely that is all a biography can ask for. ...more I discovered Heinlein, I think, about the same time I discovered Star Trek; when I discovered the idea that we could build a better world and go live in it. For some heady teenage years I read him again and again, delighted and fascinated by this brave new world with such people in it who were tackling the big questions with seemingly clear eyes. And then I stopped, increasingly soured by his flat characters, their smugness and certainty, the intrusive bits of racism, misogyny and homophobia, an I discovered Heinlein, I think, about the same time I discovered Star Trek; when I discovered the idea that we could build a better world and go live in it. For some heady teenage years I read him again and again, delighted and fascinated by this brave new world with such people in it who were tackling the big questions with seemingly clear eyes. And then I stopped, increasingly soured by his flat characters, their smugness and certainty, the intrusive bits of racism, misogyny and homophobia, and my increasing discomfort with whatever the frell Lazarus Long was doing with his mother. In my more forgiving years, I realize the man was a progressive and so much better than he should have been. Recruiting engineers for the World War Two effort he took schools that did not allow women to take classes to task and accused them of losing the war. He had characters of various religions and ethnicities and would not budge to make his books more palatable to publishing houses. He worked hard on anti-poverty programs. He tried hard not to succumb to the prejudices of his culture and succeeded more than most of us. This book was a bit of a hagiography and I ended up skimming large portions where, as far as I can tell, Heinlein lived an ordinary life. But I liked the bits where he didn\u2019t. ...more I've read three other, much shorter, biographies of Heinlein. Two were hatchet jobs, and the third misinterpreted the man and his work. To my knowledge, this is the only biography available of Heinlein that was written by a person who can receive Heinlein's wavelength. Thus, it is the only biography of Heinlein worth reading for those who enjoy Heinlein's work and want to know something more about the author. Given the misleading biographies of him that were available before, this book was sorel I've read three other, much shorter, biographies of Heinlein. Two were hatchet jobs, and the third misinterpreted the man and his work. To my knowledge, this is the only biography available of Heinlein that was written by a person who can receive Heinlein's wavelength. Thus, it is the only biography of Heinlein worth reading for those who enjoy Heinlein's work and want to know something more about the author. Given the misleading biographies of him that were available before, this book was sorely needed. Even better, Mr. Patterson had access to Heinlein's files at the University of California Santa Cruz and the cooperation of Heinlein's widow Virginia and the members of the writer's extended family. He had more information to work with than any previous biographer, so this biography is far more comprehensive than any other now available. For those readers who have enjoyed Heinlein's work and want to know more about the man who created such outstanding stories, this biography gets my highest recommendation. It does not, however, examine Heinlein's work in detail. For those wanting an overview of Heinlein's writing for researching a term paper, for example, this book will not serve. I enjoyed it thoroughly. ...more Clearly written by the pro-Heinlein side, but willing to show him with what some will see as warts. Could easily have been a very \"Kitty Kelly-ish\" book. Instead. it's a Just-the-facts bit of journalism for the most part, and you get to draw your own conclusions. If you like Heinlein, you must read this book. For a fan like me, this is a 5. For the general interested reader, a four. I can hardly wait for volume 2. Despite being an avid Heinlein fan since my formative years this biography sat on my shelf for a long time before I could bring myself to read it. Perhaps I thought at 600+ pages for just the first of a two volume biography it would be too heavy going. Or perhaps I was afraid of what I might learn about the man whose works I treasured and whose influence in my own life I thought I recognised. But I need not have been concerned on either account. William H Patterson Jr succeeds in presenting a fast Despite being an avid Heinlein fan since my formative years this biography sat on my shelf for a long time before I could bring myself to read it. Perhaps I thought at 600+ pages for just the first of a two volume biography it would be too heavy going. Or perhaps I was afraid of what I might learn about the man whose works I treasured and whose influence in my own life I thought I recognised. But I need not have been concerned on either account. William H Patterson Jr succeeds in presenting a fastidiously complete biography with numerous references and extracts from correspondence and memoir yet does so in a manner which - if not a page turner - is certainly an absorbing and compelling good read. Those not familiar with Heinlein's work may find less to interest and entertain than fans, certainly, but the subtitle (\"In Dialogue With His Century\"), is highly apt, with the perspective on early 20th Century American and World history that Heinlein's life provides being intrinsically interesting for anyone even remotely aware of how the world has changed - and how it perhaps has not - over the past 100 years. ...more Fascinating, absolutely fascinating... and while I admit that Heinlein, like everyone else, had his blind spots and areas where he was a rampaging asshole/whatever other epithet you want to sling at him, his life story still makes marvelous and engaging reading. Robert Heinlein has been one of my touchstone authors for as long as I can remember, in part because how my own reactions to his work has changed as I have read and re-read them throughout my life. Certainly as one of the most prominent authors of the \"Golden Age\" of science fiction, a full fledged biography and critical review of his work is warranted. In that respect, Patterson's book so thoroughly meets the need for the former, he can be forgiven for giving virtually no attention to the latte Robert Heinlein has been one of my touchstone authors for as long as I can remember, in part because how my own reactions to his work has changed as I have read and re-read them throughout my life. Certainly as one of the most prominent authors of the \"Golden Age\" of science fiction, a full fledged biography and critical review of his work is warranted. In that respect, Patterson's book so thoroughly meets the need for the former, he can be forgiven for giving virtually no attention to the latter. In truth, had he tried to do both, I expect we'd be looking at an 8-10 volume work rather than the two volume work he is in the process of completing. (Volume II comes out this summer.) In any event, for a long time reader and admirer of Heinlein, Patterson has written an incredibly thorough while still thoroughly readable biography of Heinlein's life up to 1948. Readers with less interest in Heinlein or science fiction in general might find the book less interesting but for us, the living (sorry, couldn't resist) beneficiaries of Heinlein's incredible output this is an essenttial volume. One point to keep in mind when starting this book. It is an authorized biography and on the first page the risk that this would be nothing more than a detailed hagiography seems high. Patterson risks his credibility in the introduction by intimating that the death of Heinlein on May 8, 1988 was as memorable and impactful an event as the assassinations of JFK and RFK, the first Moon landing, the Challenger disaster and 9/11. Fortunately once you get past this statement, one that Heinlein himself I think would have found in questionable taste as a writer and evidence of throughly screwed up priorities given the loss of life involved in some of these events, Patterson regains his equilibrium. While his admiration for Heinelin is evident, he is relatively even handed in laying out his stregths and weaknesses as a person. My advice, skip the introduction! ...more I have read almost everything Robert Heinlein wrote; so I was interested in his biography. And I went through almost 500 pages of text. (Btw, no. of pages is given as 622 but over 100 pages are notes--I skimmed a few of the longer notes--not all). I found the biography very readable and did enjoy the book. If you are interested in Heinlein as a person---rather than in his writings--there is a great deal of information here. It is definitely a pro-Heinlein biography The author, Mr. Patterson, got m I have read almost everything Robert Heinlein wrote; so I was interested in his biography. And I went through almost 500 pages of text. (Btw, no. of pages is given as 622 but over 100 pages are notes--I skimmed a few of the longer notes--not all). I found the biography very readable and did enjoy the book. If you are interested in Heinlein as a person---rather than in his writings--there is a great deal of information here. It is definitely a pro-Heinlein biography The author, Mr. Patterson, got many letters from the Heinlein Archives and taped interviews from Virginia Heinlein as well. Nevertheless, I found the picture I got of Heinlein to be sympathetic, but not biased. Of course, there may be factual errors of which I am unaware. I suspect I enjoyed the first half of this biography more than I might enjoy the second book, which I DO plan to read. Possibly it is because in the part of his life up to 1948, Heinlein faced many trials and hard times. I find it easy sympathize with Heinlein when he is the underdog. For example, after working so hard at the Naval Academy. it no doubt was a crushing experience to be retired on medical disability with tuberculosis. Also, when first starting out he had to please his editors more and cooperate with them. In later life, his fiction was much more opinionated; much more sexually explicit and not imho only of course, as good as his early work. Even if you dislike Heinlein, he is still an interesting and fascination character. You may not always agree with him---I do not--but the biography was very interesting and I did enjoy it. ...more OK, so I read volume 1 after I read volume 2. This one takes Heinlein up till 1948, when he marries his third wife, Virginia. Heinlein washes out of the Navy as a young man because of tuberculosis, and tries his hands in politics in California. He's very liberal, and is actually working for Sinclair Lewis, who was before running for California Governor, a Socialist. Politics isn't very successful for him, so he turns to writing, and science fiction fits the bill. As Vol 2 did, this book ably chr OK, so I read volume 1 after I read volume 2. This one takes Heinlein up till 1948, when he marries his third wife, Virginia. Heinlein washes out of the Navy as a young man because of tuberculosis, and tries his hands in politics in California. He's very liberal, and is actually working for Sinclair Lewis, who was before running for California Governor, a Socialist. Politics isn't very successful for him, so he turns to writing, and science fiction fits the bill. As Vol 2 did, this book ably chronicles the writing of many of his stories, but beyond talking about some disagreements with editors, does not delve deeply into his techniques and themes; it's not a literary biography. There's more in this book about Heinlein's sexual life (his open marriages) than the second volume did, but more in the notes at the end of the book than in the text itself. This is fascinating stuff, mostly because Heinlein's nudism and certain open attitudes about sex were pretty key to his fiction. Still, I read these books pretty quickly, because many of the stories were just not that interesting, except where he breaks with old friends (as he did with Willy Ley because Ley worked for Von Braun -- in the U.S. not Germany). As with the second volume, if you've read most everything Heinlein wrote, then this may be for you; it's not for the more casual reader. ...more A 4.5 book, rounded up for the importance it has on the history of Science Fiction writing. This is a fairly exhaustive biography of one the founding fathers of Science Fiction. It has a wealth of information on the genesis of Heinlein's writings and one can see how themes that he followed in his writing until the end of his life were formed as a boy. The downside of exhaustive biographies is that it is inevitable that there will be sections that the reader feels are too long and Learning Curve i A 4.5 book, rounded up for the importance it has on the history of Science Fiction writing. This is a fairly exhaustive biography of one the founding fathers of Science Fiction. It has a wealth of information on the genesis of Heinlein's writings and one can see how themes that he followed in his writing until the end of his life were formed as a boy. The downside of exhaustive biographies is that it is inevitable that there will be sections that the reader feels are too long and Learning Curve is no different. For me, the section documenting Heinlein's political career was the long slog of the book. On the other hand, I could not get enough of the sections covering Heinlein's time at the Naval Academy and in the pre-war Navy. The biggest bone I have to pick with the author is his stated aversion to actually critiquing Heinlein's stories within the book. I feel this is a diservice to the reader and it weakens the book. Hopefully the future volume, covering 1950 until Heinlein's death and the bulk of his output, will include critical comment, if not from the author, then the comments of others. Irreplacable to the Science Fiction fan that wants a front row seat to the Golden Age of the genre. ...more As a lifetime fan of the works of Robert A. Heinlein, I found this book to be a terrific read. Not only does the author do a great job of tracing Robert's life, he also illustrates both flaws and strengths of the man and others in his life and does so with a writing style reminiscent of Heinlein's. Great read. The first volume of William H. Patterson's Robert A. Heinlein: In Dialogue with His Century is a fascinating read for anyone interested in perhaps the most famous and influential name in modern science fiction. Based upon wide research in Heinlein's personal correspondence, and also upon seemingly countless interviews and e-mails with Ginny Heinlein and others, the text is engagingly written, and backed up with copious footnotes well worth examining. After giving a useful little history of the f The first volume of William H. Patterson's Robert A. Heinlein: In Dialogue with His Century is a fascinating read for anyone interested in perhaps the most famous and influential name in modern science fiction. Based upon wide research in Heinlein's personal correspondence, and also upon seemingly countless interviews and e-mails with Ginny Heinlein and others, the text is engagingly written, and backed up with copious footnotes well worth examining. After giving a useful little history of the family into which Heinlein was to be born, Patterson takes us from the birth of the author-to-be in 1907 through 1947, his breakout from the \"pulps\" like Astounding Science-Fiction and into prestigious \"slicks\" such as The Saturday Evening Post . The beginnings of Heinlein's career are interesting, of course, and yet so, too, are the details of the boy's relentless self-education, the youth's career in the Navy before being invalided out due to tuberculosis, and--though, at least for myself, to a lesser extent--his early Leftist political activity. Patterson reveals Heinlein's 1929 marriage to Eleanor Curry, a year-long union that was lost to history until the twenty-first century, but it is the story of his 1932-1947 marriage to Leslyn MacDonald that is particularly eye-opening. Heinlein's second marriage--which for decades was called his first--is something about which most fans knew only vaguely, as his marriage to Virginia Gerstenfeld from 1948 onward always loomed largest. Robert and Leslyn were, however, married for fifteen years, and it is quite touching to see, not just from Patterson's evaluation but also even from Robert's letters to Ginny after the breakup, how truly devoted they were for so long. It is interesting as well--though not surprising, perhaps, to anyone who has read Heinlein's fiction from the 1960s onward--to learn that Robert and Leslyn occasionally visited nudist resorts, and that his first two marriages were open, or \"swinging,\" relationships. Most likely Heinlein was a fairly private person in any event, but such details help explain his drive to bury so thoroughly the history of his life with Leslyn. These were things that a children's author of the late 1940s and 1950s simply could not afford to have noised about. Patterson's book follows the Heinleins' work as civilian employees for the Naval Air Experimental Station during the Second World War, Robert's momentous move into the \"slicks\" and the beginning of what was to be a twelve-year association with Scribner's for a series of \"juvenile\" novels, and Leslyn's decline into alcoholism and the simultaneous growth of the relationship between Robert and Ginny. The ultimate failure of Heinlein's second marriage is surprisingly bittersweet after reading of the long years of such companionship and support, but of course we, the readers of half a century later, knew it was coming. The rise of Heinlein's final love, however, is perhaps even more reassuring, and thus a fine place for this first volume to end. ...more Reading through this biography a strange thing happened. When I was a boy I read almost all of Heinlein\u2019s juveniles and a great deal of his later novels. And almost like every other boy I fell in awe of his writing, thinking for years that he was the best science fiction writer of all times. Then, years later, I read the uncut versions of some of his earlier novels and thought that there was something amiss. But still I thought it may have been my fault for reading them at an inappropriate time. S Reading through this biography a strange thing happened. When I was a boy I read almost all of Heinlein\u2019s juveniles and a great deal of his later novels. And almost like every other boy I fell in awe of his writing, thinking for years that he was the best science fiction writer of all times. Then, years later, I read the uncut versions of some of his earlier novels and thought that there was something amiss. But still I thought it may have been my fault for reading them at an inappropriate time. So when this biography, the only one authorized by the widow, came out I snapped it, thinking to know more of the man himself, a lot more. And to supplement it I was very much interested in acquiring the 46 leather-bound volumes of the Virginia Edition. But upon reading the whole biography I\u2019ve come to understand that my teenager idol had clay feet. You should note that this falling out, in no way, is a reflection on the quality of William H. Patterson, Jr.\u2019s work. If anything the thoroughness is so absolute, so filled with anedoctal evidence, so thoroughly researched that no fault of his can be ascertained and it surely puts the life of Heinlein more plainly and readily perceptible to those that did not live through those Golden Age years. And so, to my perception, Heinlein comes out as a self-styled, egotistical, and not very good writer (in fact he comes out as something of a hack writer), a man that never wavered on his convictions and full of patriotism taken to extremes, all the while thinking that he was \u201cdoing the right thing\u201d and that anyone that could not see that was not worthy of his friendship. This, to me, seems a little callous. This inability to dialogue with other persons ideas, this inability to acknowledge other persons beliefs is, for me, a central defect in anyone\u2019s character and more so when, for years, Heinlein was put up by a very large part of the SF community on a pedestal and announced as the father of modern science fiction. On retrospective one has to acknowledge that, perhaps, he was at the right time, at the right place but then so were a lot of other writers, the likes of which this biography, from time to time acknowledges. Their failure to be acknowledge as principal figures in modern science fiction history may stem from the fact that they were less vocal than Heinlein that never let bygones be bygones but went ahead with all the determination of a bull and only stopped when is point of view was accepted. So, this biography opened my eyes and made me see Heinlein for what he was therefore I may still reread some of his works but never in the same state of mind. This is a say way to realize that the \u201cfather figure\u201d of yesteryear was nothing more than a conceited, racist, gung-ho person that always found fault on other peoples actions but rarely on their own. I\u2019m giving 3 stars to this book because when trying to achieve an effect, in truth achieved something altogether different. ...more Like most sf fans, I passed through a phase of total fascination with Robert A. Heinlein as a young reader - possibly even before my teens; and like most sensible people, I was repelled and appalled by the awfulness of his last few novels, to the point of wondering if they had all been like that and I was just too young to notice. (Though when I checked, I found the earlier ones were not as bad as I feared.) At over 600 pages (including a 28 page index and 100 pages of grrrr endnotes), this book Like most sf fans, I passed through a phase of total fascination with Robert A. Heinlein as a young reader - possibly even before my teens; and like most sensible people, I was repelled and appalled by the awfulness of his last few novels, to the point of wondering if they had all been like that and I was just too young to notice. (Though when I checked, I found the earlier ones were not as bad as I feared.) At over 600 pages (including a 28 page index and 100 pages of grrrr endnotes), this book is nothing if not comprehensive; but it covers only the first 41 of Heinlein's 80 years, ending neatly on the day of his third marriage. We learn of Heinlein's liberal Missouri family background, his career in the Navy dashed by ill-health, his dabbling in political activism (as a left but libertarian Democrat in the 1930s) and his early writing career, and rapid emergence as a leading light in the world of sf. It's all told in meticulous detail. However, the hagiographical tone of Patterson's introduction is a warning signal that the book may perhaps have too narrow a focus on its subject rather than on his environment. Heinlein's death is compared to the Kennedy assassinations and 9/11 in its impact on people\"s lives; we are told that he \"galvanised not one, but four social movements of his century: science fiction and its stepchild, the policy think tank, the counterculture, the libertarian movement, and the commercial space movement.\" It's news to me, as one who has been active in both, that policy think tanks are especially closely linked with sf in their historical origin. As did Jo Walton, I had hoped for a biography that would both get under Heinlein's skin and contextualise his work in the politics both of the USA and of science fiction of the times. But you will learn more of Heinlein's politics by reading half of Ken MacLeod's essay in The Cambridge Companion to Science Fiction. This book is almost entirely surface detail - microscopically mapped and decently structured, but it will be an indispensable secondary source for other, better works in future. ...more Finally finished this fat book after a couple of months of intermittent reading. That isn't fair to the book--I did enjoy it quite a lot. Patterson presents Heinlein's life in great detail, and almost entirely without psychoanalyzing, fawning, or backbiting. For the most part, this is very satisfying--as a reader, you just get to analyze a smoothly compiled chronology of Heinlein's life, drawing conclusions for yourself. And Heinlein certainly had an interesting life: naval academy, early naval Finally finished this fat book after a couple of months of intermittent reading. That isn't fair to the book--I did enjoy it quite a lot. Patterson presents Heinlein's life in great detail, and almost entirely without psychoanalyzing, fawning, or backbiting. For the most part, this is very satisfying--as a reader, you just get to analyze a smoothly compiled chronology of Heinlein's life, drawing conclusions for yourself. And Heinlein certainly had an interesting life: naval academy, early naval career cut short by TB and other health problems, political work, early writing for the pulps, WWII as a civilian engineer working with folks like Asimov and de Camp, associations with L. Ron Hubbard, lots of travel around the country, and a divorce, even some spicy stuff like open relationships and nudist camps. Even if you aren't interested in science fiction, this reads well as social history of WWII era America. My only caveat is that one gets the sense that there might be quite a bit that is not being said here, that perhaps there are some less savory bits of Heinlein that are left out of this official biography or just aren't really available for discovery. Patterson leaves room for reading between lines, and it would be nice to know one way or the other, for instance, if Heinlein was a womanizer. But I did enjoy this book, and look forward to the second installment. I particularly like the insight it gives into the life of a writer in the story market of the mid-20th century. I think the second volume will show the transition into today's novel-dominated market just as clearly. ...more This book was very thorough with a huge reference index. It was light on what the man actually felt and very heavy on his path through life until about year 1948. This is Volume 1, after all. I was interested to know that he was a Navy Man and did war exercises in the Pacific before WWII. Interestingly, one of those exercises was to see if Pearl Harbor was weak in defense, and it was, however, the Navy reported the exact opposite. The Japanese watched this exercise (which tested with real people This book was very thorough with a huge reference index. It was light on what the man actually felt and very heavy on his path through life until about year 1948. This is Volume 1, after all. I was interested to know that he was a Navy Man and did war exercises in the Pacific before WWII. Interestingly, one of those exercises was to see if Pearl Harbor was weak in defense, and it was, however, the Navy reported the exact opposite. The Japanese watched this exercise (which tested with real people and involved deaths) and studied it in college and then, lo and behold, they attacked a few years later. Unbelievable. I was also interested to read about his political days in California. He and his wife did a lot of work and were very involved. After he couldn't be in the Navy anymore because of physical ailments, which were created by a really bad Navy hospital unfortunately, and after politics was over for him for the time being as the elections were over, that's when he tried writing pulp fiction. When he got his first check, he apparently looked at it and asked how long had this racket been going on and why was he just now hearing about it. He really involved himself in atomic and rocket science at the end of WWII. I didn't realize that Einstein was not the man of the atomic hour but this woman was. Heinlein was pretty pissed that most people didn't realize she was the one, but then again, that wasn't something they really talked up a lot. But still. Glad to have read it and it wasn't as painful as I thought it would be, being non-fiction and not a story. ...more For the complete Patterson review of the 2-volumes biography, see review on my blog. I\u2019ve selected a few texts in direct speech, to illustrate some of his ideas, which I think worth retaining, because they help us understand the man as well as the writer (many more could have been extracted). Volume 1: \u201cHow long this racket has been going on? And why didn\u2019t anybody tell me about it sooner?\u201d (when Heinlein made the first sale to Campbell: \u201cLife-Line\u201d) \u201cI have been writing the Horatio Alger books of t For the complete Patterson review of the 2-volumes biography, see review on my blog. I\u2019ve selected a few texts in direct speech, to illustrate some of his ideas, which I think worth retaining, because they help us understand the man as well as the writer (many more could have been extracted). Volume 1: \u201cHow long this racket has been going on? And why didn\u2019t anybody tell me about it sooner?\u201d (when Heinlein made the first sale to Campbell: \u201cLife-Line\u201d) \u201cI have been writing the Horatio Alger books of this generation, always with the same strongly moral purpose that runs through every line of the Alger books (which strongly influenced me; I read them all): \u201cHonesty is the best policy.\u201d \u201cHard work is rewarded.\u201d \u201cThere is no easy road to success.\u201d \u201cCourage above all.\u201d \u201cStudying hard pays off, in happiness as well as in money.\u201d \u201cStand on you own feet.\u201d \u201cDon\u2019t ever be bullied.\u201d \u201cTake your medicine.\u201d \u201cThe world always has a place for a man who works, but none for the lazy.\u201d These are the things that the Alger books said to me, in the idiom suited to my generation; I believed them when I read them, I believe them now, and I have tried to say them to a younger generation which I believe has been shamefully neglected by many of the elders responsible of its moral training.\u201d (now we understand where the \u201ccompetence\u201d theme comes from\u2026) You can read the rest of this review on my blog. ...more I'm innately suspicious of authorized biographies, doubly so in this case. (Before her death in 2003, Virginia Heinlein took an... active... role in managing her husband's image and place in SF history.) But when all is said and done, this seems to be a fair portrayal of Robert Heinlein's life, showing both his good points and his weaknesses. Patterson excels at bringing Heinlein's early years to life, focusing on his career in the Navy and the experience of being a young man living on the cuttin I'm innately suspicious of authorized biographies, doubly so in this case. (Before her death in 2003, Virginia Heinlein took an... active... role in managing her husband's image and place in SF history.) But when all is said and done, this seems to be a fair portrayal of Robert Heinlein's life, showing both his good points and his weaknesses. Patterson excels at bringing Heinlein's early years to life, focusing on his career in the Navy and the experience of being a young man living on the cutting edge of technology in the 1920s and 1930s. Ensign Heinlein's adventures on the U.S.S. Lexington could just as easily have happened on a starship, and it's easy to see how Heinlein took those memories and worked them into his fiction. Heinlein the young writer is not as interesting, though it's fun to see his rise to fame. Patterson also does his best to reconstruct Heinlein's first and second marriages, and the citations show he's done an honest job of scholarship. That said, there's no getting around the fact that his best source is Virginia Heinlein, Heinlein's third wife and by no means a disinterested party. Patterson may or may not have captured the true story, but he's probably come as close as anybody ever will. ...more The title of this book, while unwieldy, gives a most succinct description of its contents. This is about Robert Heinlein, yes. But it's also a fascinating glimpse into the first half of the 20th century. Coming to Heinlein's books in the 90's - well after his passing - I could never quite get past the descriptions of horse and buggies, or rural doctors. This was essential reading for me to place Heinlein's writing in the context of his own personal history. When I was growing up, Heinlein's works The title of this book, while unwieldy, gives a most succinct description of its contents. This is about Robert Heinlein, yes. But it's also a fascinating glimpse into the first half of the 20th century. Coming to Heinlein's books in the 90's - well after his passing - I could never quite get past the descriptions of horse and buggies, or rural doctors. This was essential reading for me to place Heinlein's writing in the context of his own personal history. When I was growing up, Heinlein's works were considered seminal science fiction, and required reading for anyone who wanted to be able to converse with the field. Today, they're still considered seminal, but tainted by some of the problematic issues in his writing. This book attempts to bridge the two by sketching a diagram of Heinlein's writing into a backdrop of what was going on in the world at the time. It's undeniably too laudatory, but most biographies of \"heroes\" are. Patterson sets out to do what he means to, ultimately: he shows Heinlein as a person first, and as a writer second. Not only does this volume make me desperate to read the second one, it also makes me want to research the World Wars, California politics of the 30s, and the history of nudist colonies. Surely, that's not a bad legacy. ...more This is a bio of who some say is the greatest science fiction writer. I had already read Asimov's autobiiography. This is similar especially the parts about the early rejections and the relationship with their Editor John Campbell at the science fiction magazine Analog. Heinlein did have an interesting life. He was a graduate of the Naval Academy but had to leave the Navy for health reasons. He then had a fling in California as a left wing politician. He then during WW II worked for the Army in This is a bio of who some say is the greatest science fiction writer. I had already read Asimov's autobiiography. This is similar especially the parts about the early rejections and the relationship with their Editor John Campbell at the science fiction magazine Analog. Heinlein did have an interesting life. He was a graduate of the Naval Academy but had to leave the Navy for health reasons. He then had a fling in California as a left wing politician. He then during WW II worked for the Army in research with DeCamp and Asimov. He had three wives and by the time he married the third wife he had become more conservative. The early left wing politician would never have written Star Ship Troopers. Heinlein continued to develop since he was able to write such ground-breaking works as the Moon is a Harsh Mistress and Stranger in a Strange Land. This book is very thorugh abouit describing his writing life and why he left John Campbell to write for the slicks (Saturday Evening Post, etc.) more money! I am not sure I am going to tackle ...more Engrossing. Much material on RAH's second wife Leslyn that was heartbreaking but also fascinating. She really was extremely important to his development as a writer, a true partner for many years before the divorce. A few weaknesses in Patterson's narrative. Patterson seems about as California nutty as the Heinleins at times with the mind power movement and such. Could have stood a bit of critical objectivity there to grasp what was going on at the time in the coalescing culture of Hollywood era Engrossing. Much material on RAH's second wife Leslyn that was heartbreaking but also fascinating. She really was extremely important to his development as a writer, a true partner for many years before the divorce. A few weaknesses in Patterson's narrative. Patterson seems about as California nutty as the Heinleins at times with the mind power movement and such. Could have stood a bit of critical objectivity there to grasp what was going on at the time in the coalescing culture of Hollywood era Los Angeles that people could buy such things. Also, could have used summaries of the stories and novels, even though Patterson was obviously avoiding literary crititicism. Some odd emphases, as well. A great deal of time setting up lefty California politics of the 1930s and not much time explaining what a sale to the Saturday Evening Post really meant. The Annapolis material was just great, really painted a picture of the young Heinlein's life, hopes and dreams. Overall I couldn't put the book down and am greatly looking forward to the concluding volume. ...more I actually considered writing a biography of Robert Heinlein once, so I was interested in reading what someone far less lazy than me would say about the life of my favorite author. Mr. Patterson's treatment is exhaustive and exhausting. Does anyone really warrant a 500 page book about the first (and less significant) half of his life? I found the historical description of Heinlein's involvement in 1930s California politics and World War Ii to be fascinating. Likewise, the coverage of Heinlein's I actually considered writing a biography of Robert Heinlein once, so I was interested in reading what someone far less lazy than me would say about the life of my favorite author. Mr. Patterson's treatment is exhaustive and exhausting. Does anyone really warrant a 500 page book about the first (and less significant) half of his life? I found the historical description of Heinlein's involvement in 1930s California politics and World War Ii to be fascinating. Likewise, the coverage of Heinlein's early writings was interesting, at least to a fan like me. I was far less interested in the detailed description of Heinlein's married life. Despite the book's sub-title, \"Learning Curve\", it doesn't provide any critical analysis of how Heinlein's life experiences led him to become the pre- eminent science fiction writer of the 20th century. One can hope that that assessment will be forthcoming in Volume II. ...more It's good to finally have a thorough biography of one of the masters of 20th century science fiction. Bits of his past have shown up in his stories, though one seldom knew when and what, but this volume clarifies where his perspective was honed and what genuine incidents later ended up in his tales. Lazarus Long would never have written anything as honest as this book appears to be, but now we can see how Lazarus acquired his outlook on life. Looking forward to Volume 2; the photos, especially of It's good to finally have a thorough biography of one of the masters of 20th century science fiction. Bits of his past have shown up in his stories, though one seldom knew when and what, but this volume clarifies where his perspective was honed and what genuine incidents later ended up in his tales. Lazarus Long would never have written anything as honest as this book appears to be, but now we can see how Lazarus acquired his outlook on life. Looking forward to Volume 2; the photos, especially of his greatest muse, his final wife Ginny, are a welcome addition to help us understand the life of Robert Heinlein. The cut off point between the two volumes is at a crossroads in his life that I'm sure those familiar with his history would recognize as a defining moment for RAH. ...more \"In Dialog with His Century\" is a good description of his life. As a child Heinlein rode with his grandfather on a buggy around rural Missouri and in his maturity he made one of the most telling arguments for space travel. Wanting to understand how he came to travel that distance led me to the book and I recommend it for that. But as well, the book contains a wealth of information that helps explain how he came to write what he did. You learn that it was Fritz Lang who convinced Heinlein to writ \"In Dialog with His Century\" is a good description of his life. As a child Heinlein rode with his grandfather on a buggy around rural Missouri and in his maturity he made one of the most telling arguments for space travel. Wanting to understand how he came to travel that distance led me to the book and I recommend it for that. But as well, the book contains a wealth of information that helps explain how he came to write what he did. You learn that it was Fritz Lang who convinced Heinlein to write juveniles and the argument he used. And here you learn that Heinlein wrote Beyond This Horizon to illustrate a Utopian society and how actual humans might act within it. For anyone like me, whose youthful mind was molded to some degree by the man, it's an excellent read. ...more Biography of the Grandmaster Heinlein has always been a favorite author of mine; he is also a fascinating man in his own right, independent of his corpus of work. Heinlein was a man of many contradictions - his life was even more complex than I has suspected before reading this. And he knew a veritable who's who of sci-fi - his recollections of the young Ray Bradbury and young Isaac Asimov, for example, are interesting to me. Anyway, highly recommended for those interested in Heinlein and his le Biography of the Grandmaster Heinlein has always been a favorite author of mine; he is also a fascinating man in his own right, independent of his corpus of work. Heinlein was a man of many contradictions - his life was even more complex than I has suspected before reading this. And he knew a veritable who's who of sci-fi - his recollections of the young Ray Bradbury and young Isaac Asimov, for example, are interesting to me. Anyway, highly recommended for those interested in Heinlein and his legacy (intellectual as well as literary) - I'm looking forward to reading Volume II! ...more I learned a lot of info that I didn't know already about the great man. It means a lot to me to know it. Heinlein is one of the authors that was incorporated into the foundation, structure, walls, and roof of my mind as I grew up. I don't think I go a week without quoting him or relating something that happens to his books. Unfortunately, this book is terrible if you care about writing quality. It reads like this guy did a whole ton of research and then sort of loosely listed everything he found I learned a lot of info that I didn't know already about the great man. It means a lot to me to know it. Heinlein is one of the authors that was incorporated into the foundation, structure, walls, and roof of my mind as I grew up. I don't think I go a week without quoting him or relating something that happens to his books. Unfortunately, this book is terrible if you care about writing quality. It reads like this guy did a whole ton of research and then sort of loosely listed everything he found out in a sort of chronological way. Really I think this may be the worst written book I've read this year. Certainly the worst one I've finished. ...more Goodness, this is one detailed biography. It might be too detailed for the average, non-SF reader, but (unlike a certain recent two-voume biography of a classic era American movie actress, whose name we will not mention except to say that it's Barbara Stanwyck) the information in this bio is not self-indulgent, irritating padding. The writing is serviceable and heaven knows, Heinlein was interesting enough to keep you turning the page...er...kindle. When last we left Bob, WWII had ended and he h Goodness, this is one detailed biography. It might be too detailed for the average, non-SF reader, but (unlike a certain recent two-voume biography of a classic era American movie actress, whose name we will not mention except to say that it's Barbara Stanwyck) the information in this bio is not self-indulgent, irritating padding. The writing is serviceable and heaven knows, Heinlein was interesting enough to keep you turning the page...er...kindle. When last we left Bob, WWII had ended and he had just married Ginny. On to Vol. 2. ...more Excellent book, but I was disappointed to find much of the most interesting material only in the footnotes. Also, the author frequently indents the text for a footnoted quote, but doesn't tell us in the text who is writing to whom--which makes a crucial difference in some cases. (Heinlein writing to future wife? Ex-wife? Editor? Friend? One of these writing to Heinlein?) So there was a lot of shifting back and forth between text and footnotes to make sure I knew the full story. Nevertheless I'm e Excellent book, but I was disappointed to find much of the most interesting material only in the footnotes. Also, the author frequently indents the text for a footnoted quote, but doesn't tell us in the text who is writing to whom--which makes a crucial difference in some cases. (Heinlein writing to future wife? Ex-wife? Editor? Friend? One of these writing to Heinlein?) So there was a lot of shifting back and forth between text and footnotes to make sure I knew the full story. Nevertheless I'm eagerly looking forward to Volume 2. ...more A most interesting, if uncritical book about Heinlein. It's an authorized biography, and Robert doesn't always come off looking the best or wisest, but he is presented as someone you would like to know. In light of the mid-life crisis which ends volume one, it causes one to reexamine some of the interpersonal relationships in his books. A solid and interesting read. One also sees a lot of character building from his not privileged childhood and his years in the Naval academy and as a serving off A most interesting, if uncritical book about Heinlein. It's an authorized biography, and Robert doesn't always come off looking the best or wisest, but he is presented as someone you would like to know. In light of the mid-life crisis which ends volume one, it causes one to reexamine some of the interpersonal relationships in his books. A solid and interesting read. One also sees a lot of character building from his not privileged childhood and his years in the Naval academy and as a serving officer. ...more I don't normally read history, so it was fascinating to see the perspective of someone sailing into the Golden Gate before the bridge existed, or the evolution of Heinlein's experience and ideas about Progressivism and Communism. Heinlein was (is) and important part of my life, so this was time well spent. Reading the book, it felt a bit like Patterson was an acolyte of Heinlein's, so his explanations (justifications) for some of Heinlein's controversial positions felt a bit like excuses. I don't I don't normally read history, so it was fascinating to see the perspective of someone sailing into the Golden Gate before the bridge existed, or the evolution of Heinlein's experience and ideas about Progressivism and Communism. Heinlein was (is) and important part of my life, so this was time well spent. Reading the book, it felt a bit like Patterson was an acolyte of Heinlein's, so his explanations (justifications) for some of Heinlein's controversial positions felt a bit like excuses. I don't know enough to judge. ...more<---C>William H. Patterson Jr.</---C><+++>Robert A. Heinlein: In Dialogue with His Century: Volume 1 (1907-1948): Learning Curve</+++>", "Title": "Robert A. Heinlein: In Dialogue with His Century: Volume 1 (1907-1948): Learning Curve"},
