{"Comments": "<---A>Melissa de la Cruz</---A> has been holding out on us! <+++>The Van Alen Legacy</+++> is by far the best in series. As a reader,<---M> I got everything I wanted</---M>, plus many amazing things I never would have thought to ask for. This series is basically a vampire soap opera, but man, what a well done soap opera it is. It has been over a year since Rio and Schuyler and Oliver have been on the run nearly as long. It would seem as though she has made her choice, but just as she makes a daring move to secure her and Oliver's sa Melissa de la Cruz has been holding out on us! <+++>The Van Alen Legacy</+++> is by far the best in series. As a reader, I got everything I wanted, plus many amazing things I never would have thought to ask for. This series is basically a vampire soap opera, but man, what a well done soap opera it is. It has been over a year since Rio and Schuyler and Oliver have been on the run nearly as long. It would seem as though she has made her choice, but just as she makes a daring move to secure her and Oliver's safety, she is thrown into the very thing she fears the most and into the arms of the one she can hardly bare to live without. Being her mother's unncorrupted daughter has made Schuyler the Blue Bloods last hope, but despite the fact that she has embraced her task, she has managed to run from the biggest similarity that she and her mother share, until now. Is her mother right? Are there some loves worth dying for? Bliss has been in a lost state, struggling just to remember her name. She can't account for over a year of her life, and there is a Visitor living inside her, taking over whenever he pleases. As Bliss fights to regain control of her mind, body and future, she uncovers the truth of who she is and in the process uncovers a scheme that could undo everyone and everything she has left, but how do you fight something that lives in you? Will she be strong enough to stop the Visitor, before its too late? Mimi has trapsed acrossed the globe, searching for the watcher with her venator team, lead by the very one who nearly caused her death, Kingsley Martin. But everytime they think they've finally caught up, they are left wanting. Is it the year of adventure and near death experiences that has caused Mimi to reevaluate her life, or has she only just found someone that allows her to be as she truly is? Is it just meaningless nothing, an impulse of this life, of this time, or has Kingsley been there, every cycle, pushing her and possibly loving her and worse, her loving him back? I'm not going to reveal anymore, it would spoil the fun. Once again I was swept away in this complex world, with it's vibrant characters, spot on dialog, and nerve wracking plot. I can't wait to for the next installment as I am sure Cruz will manage to shock me yet again, many times.<---F> Loved it! P</---F>.S. Allegra is a tart! ;) ...more I want to know what's gonna happen between Schuyler and Jack!!!!!! WARNING: I AM VERY OPINIONATED, READ AT OUR OWN RISK! I wish there were 2.5 stars. This was, in my opinion, better than the first 3 books, but probably not something I would mark as 3 whole stars. Now, having said that, I can't lie, I have enjoyed reading this series. Why would I rate something as a 2 if I enjoyed reading it? Well, because its not great writing and the story isn't wonderful, and I don't like some of the events...but, she has hooked me with the mystery. So, I have to give her poi WARNING: I AM VERY OPINIONATED, READ AT OUR OWN RISK! I wish there were 2.5 stars. This was, in my opinion, better than the first 3 books, but probably not something I would mark as 3 whole stars. Now, having said that, I can't lie, I have enjoyed reading this series. Why would I rate something as a 2 if I enjoyed reading it? Well, because its not great writing and the story isn't wonderful, and I don't like some of the events...but, she has hooked me with the mystery. So, I have to give her points for keeping people intrigued and wanting to know more. There are many elements to good writing - I think M. DeLaCruz is missing a lot of them, but she does have \"keep 'em interested\". Reading these books did wake me up though. I can't keep up with my 11 year old's reading. Reading this series was a reminder that we have no idea what our kids are reading. The best thing I can do is teach her what to put down (uh, I guess that would be a do as I say, not as I do kind of thing). The themes in this book are too mature for kids that are not yet encountering them in their lives and hopefully never will. An example? I don't want my daughter to imagine that secret meeting with boys is exciting, as it was portrayed in the book with Schyler, or that duplicity in relationships is not big deal. As an adult, I get it. Teens don't and this series shouldn't be directed at them, although it clearly is. Oh, I did like the new depth in Mimi's character in relation to Kingsley. She was just annoying before, this book made me like her. ...more POSSIBLE SPOILERS. DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT FINISHED THE BOOK!!!!!!11 I was torn between rating The Van Alen Legacy by Melissa de la Cruz one and five stars. Certain scenes (anything with Ollie/Schuyler romance for example) were incredibly cringe-worthy whilst others, such as the self-sacrificing Kinglsey, deserved a standing ovation. Probably the worst part (and the main reason for a potential one star rating) was the constant skipping around of point-of-views; I love hearing other character' POSSIBLE SPOILERS. DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVE NOT FINISHED THE BOOK!!!!!!11 I was torn between rating The Van Alen Legacy by Melissa de la Cruz one and five stars. Certain scenes (anything with Ollie/Schuyler romance for example) were incredibly cringe-worthy whilst others, such as the self-sacrificing Kinglsey, deserved a standing ovation. Probably the worst part (and the main reason for a potential one star rating) was the constant skipping around of point-of-views; I love hearing other character's thoughts however, as soon as something would become even slightly juicy or even something would just simply start happening, we'd enter another character's thoughts. It was borderline headache worthy. Whilst I enjoyed the dimming down of Mimi's vapidness in reference to her treatment of the children in Rio, I was once again reminded why I disliked her after the near-bonding. Also, I feel Jack may not survive the other book and that Bliss may become a werewolf. I'm sensing a possible Twilight crossover here. Also, wtf Allegra. I've come to the conclusion that Allegra is totally Dumbledore in straight female form. I liked Kinglsey a lot; his personality would make me laugh and the fact that he was able to (literally) charm the pants off of the usually frigid Mimi was quite entertaining. His death, while justified and heroic, was depressing. Why must de la Cruz kill off somewhat decent characters? The only other redeeming qualities of the novel was the little historical references to ancient Rome and the background on Jordan/The Watcher. Five stars. See what I mean? Final rating: three stars. ...more Every time I finish a book in the Blue Bloods series, I can't decide if I like it or not. Typically, I borrow it and read it in hardcover, and if I liked the new one well enough, I'll buy last year's in paperback. (Odd, I know, but my feelings about this series are so ambivalent, that I can't even decide to buy a single book without more input . . .) I think this will be my last Blue Bloods book. My reasons are below: As you can see from my rating, I did like it. Some fantastic things happened in Every time I finish a book in the Blue Bloods series, I can't decide if I like it or not. Typically, I borrow it and read it in hardcover, and if I liked the new one well enough, I'll buy last year's in paperback. (Odd, I know, but my feelings about this series are so ambivalent, that I can't even decide to buy a single book without more input . . .) I think this will be my last Blue Bloods book. My reasons are below: As you can see from my rating, I did like it. Some fantastic things happened in this story. Mimi actually became more than a cardboard villain. Bliss learned to stand on her own feet. And that's it. Everything else to me felt like so many pages of non action. While I didn't mind the narrative switching (each chapter has its own narrator, but they follow in order: Schuyler, Mimi, and Bliss), I was annoyed that there was not more difference in the narration. The chapters are written in third person voice, and the narrative voice is roughly the same for each one. Occasionally, de la Cruz will delve into free indirect discourse (where the third person narrator actually speaks in the voice of the character while maintaining a third person voice), but even these sounded the same. Except for the events going on in each girl's life, they're practically the same girl. I'm irritated that the series is not over. These long-running series make me ache for the age of Dracula , where the monster dies and there are no sequels, where the narrative ends with just one book. (No matter how many people have tried to write a sequel, they just don't work.) The worst part, for me, was the end. Oliver gives Schuyler to Jack and tells her: \"I know you would never leave me. I know that. I know you would never be able to make a decision, so I decided for you. You have to go with him . . . You cannot choose between us. So I chose for you.\" OK. Where to start? In the context of the story, Schuyler still loves Jack but pledged herself to Oliver. When he \"gives\" her to Jack, Oliver is acknowledging Schuyler's feelings. However, she'd already made her choice--preventing Oliver's pain was more important than her own happiness, so she had decided to stay with Oliver. He knows that Jack can protect her in ways that he cannot, so Oliver \"gives\" her away. Keeping her safe is more important to him than his own happiness. (Gah! All this self-sacrificing angst gags me!) I hate that Oliver can't respect Schuyler's right to decide her own fate, and I hate even more that when he relinquishes his claim on her heart, Schuyler is happy. Having been given to Jack, she feels like Oliver has given her a gift . . . once again, gag me. I'm too much of a feminist to enjoy either the tortured gender roles or angst in this series. I'm done. ...more Bleh. First of all, I was sure I'd read somewhere that this was the last Blue Bloods book, but this barely wrapped anything up, so I guess I'm in for at least one more volume. This book just felt scattered all over the place. There is so much going on, with so many people, and so many sub-plots, and so much backstory - it just gets confusing. I also realize how unattached I am to this series, because I page one of this book alerted me to the fact that I'd completely forgotten 9/10 of what happene Bleh. First of all, I was sure I'd read somewhere that this was the last Blue Bloods book, but this barely wrapped anything up, so I guess I'm in for at least one more volume. This book just felt scattered all over the place. There is so much going on, with so many people, and so many sub-plots, and so much backstory - it just gets confusing. I also realize how unattached I am to this series, because I page one of this book alerted me to the fact that I'd completely forgotten 9/10 of what happened at the end of book 3. People pop in and out of life/death so much, and so many people are partially corrupted, that I lose track pretty easily. I guess when it comes down to it, I just don't care that much. I like Schuyler okay, and Oliver, and Bliss, and even Mimi grew on me in this volume, but overall this type of time-encompassing, complex story was done much better in the City of Bones series by Cassandra Clare. I understood the complexities better, and the story itself was more memorable. Like I said, I'm sure I'll read other Blue Bloods volumes if/when they arrive, but I'm not that thrilled about it. ...more I am once again impressed by Melissa's skills! THE VAN ALEN LEGACY just might be my favorite of the series! Since there is no synopsis up on the web, I'll just explain a couple of things. After the death of Sky's grandfather, the Committee is lost. With Jack and Mimi Force's father gone, they have no one to lead. And when Bliss' father steps forward, everyone is happy with the decision, but when a note from an anonymous sender pops up, regretful thinking prevents him from landing the position. I l I am once again impressed by Melissa's skills! THE VAN ALEN LEGACY just might be my favorite of the series! Since there is no synopsis up on the web, I'll just explain a couple of things. After the death of Sky's grandfather, the Committee is lost. With Jack and Mimi Force's father gone, they have no one to lead. And when Bliss' father steps forward, everyone is happy with the decision, but when a note from an anonymous sender pops up, regretful thinking prevents him from landing the position. I like to think of THE VAN ALEN LEGACY as the turning point in the series, even though the next book in the series hasn't been released yet. So many things change and happen that it's hard not the think of it as the turning point. Ties are broken, friendships are put first, and shockers are sure to surprise. Romance is one of my favorite things about this series. I've given up on choosing sides. Jack or Oliver? I love them both! I was hoping that this book would confirm who Schuyler chooses, and thankfully it does! The decision she made isn't disappointing, but will surely cause trouble in the future. I'm anxious to see what will happen next. THE VAN ALEN LEGACY is full of twists and turns, unexpected romances, and unbelievable details. I can't wait at all for MISGUIDED ANGEL,the next in the series. Ratings: Writing: 3/5 Plot: 3/5 Characters: 3/5 Cover: 5/5 Overall: 3.5/5 http://theyabookblogger.blogspot.com/... ...more I got super lucky and was able to read the latest Blue Bloods book--out on Oct 6th--and okay, The Van Alen Legacy? So good I actually COULDN'T stop reading it. For real--I had work to do, but I kept saying, \"I'll just read one more page. Okay, one more chapter. Okay, just this little bit more... The Van Alen Legacy is a non-stop ride of twists and turns and OMG I didn't see that coming! and OMG! over other things I won't mention for fear of spoilers but let's just say that if you are a Blue Bloo I got super lucky and was able to read the latest Blue Bloods book--out on Oct 6th--and okay, The Van Alen Legacy? So good I actually COULDN'T stop reading it. For real--I had work to do, but I kept saying, \"I'll just read one more page. Okay, one more chapter. Okay, just this little bit more... The Van Alen Legacy is a non-stop ride of twists and turns and OMG I didn't see that coming! and OMG! over other things I won't mention for fear of spoilers but let's just say that if you are a Blue Bloods fan (and who isn't???) you are going to love, love, LOVE this book. I know I sure did! ...more The series started out so great. The premise was extremely original considering all the other vampire works coming out - reincarnation through life cycles, vampire/angel crossovers, half bloods, conspiracies, murder, and prophecies - but sadly that was all put to the side in favor of teenage angst, designer purses, and underage drinking. And this book in particular seems to have had nothing really happen in it. It's almost like it's filler. I literally skimmed a majority of this book, reading on The series started out so great. The premise was extremely original considering all the other vampire works coming out - reincarnation through life cycles, vampire/angel crossovers, half bloods, conspiracies, murder, and prophecies - but sadly that was all put to the side in favor of teenage angst, designer purses, and underage drinking. And this book in particular seems to have had nothing really happen in it. It's almost like it's filler. I literally skimmed a majority of this book, reading only dialog and internal thoughts. Frankly I just don't care - about the charcters, Schlyer's fate, her's and Jack's romance, Mimi's getting her 'Mean Girls' come-up-ings, the fall of the Silver Bloods - none of it. Who knows though, the 5th books blurb does sound a bit interesting, but I honestly hope it is the last installment in this series. ...more This is where the series lost me. I loved the first one...but by number four I just can't stand switching through everyone's pov the way this series does. Plus, the story is random and doesn't make sense. .The plot holes are just something my logical brain can't ignore anymore. maybe I'll skim the rest just to see what's going on with jack. Holy fuuuuuuuuuck. This book was DEFINITELY worth the wait, and I'd venture to say it's probably the best in the series. Lucifer finally takes the stage, and there's so much more action and excitement than in the previous books. The Van Alen Legacy finally gives us the information we need and kickstarts what we've been waiting for over the past 3 books. Everything is sort of turned on its head in the Van Alen Legacy - relationships are twisted and broken, angels are going against the Code, nobod Holy fuuuuuuuuuck. This book was DEFINITELY worth the wait, and I'd venture to say it's probably the best in the series. Lucifer finally takes the stage, and there's so much more action and excitement than in the previous books. The Van Alen Legacy finally gives us the information we need and kickstarts what we've been waiting for over the past 3 books. Everything is sort of turned on its head in the Van Alen Legacy - relationships are twisted and broken, angels are going against the Code, nobody's who you think they are, and the reign of the Silver Bloods has extended further than anybody could imagine. If you think you know what's going to happen, you're probably bloody wrong. I loved how central Bliss was to this story, and you really get to see how she battles Lucifer's control over her mind and body. I also loved how we get to delve into the pasts of several of the characters, revealing how history has a tendency to repeat itself, how Lucifer has tried and failed in the past, and which angels these kids really were. And we finally get to hear more from Allegra and Jordan/The Watcher, which I've been patiently waiting for. My only critism of the book is perhaps how confusing the mythology about the ~gates is. Even having read the brief explanation given in the text, I'm still confused as to where these gates lead to, what they all mean, and how the world was before Lucifer's revolt. But this is pretty much incentive to keep me reading to see how it all unfolds and to get some answers. Overall, I really can't articulate how much I loved this book, and how much I love this series. They're such a quick and easy read, yet the characters and mythology are so complex, and you really get sucked in. And with the havoc Lucifer is wreaking, it's only going to get better from here. ...more What an amazing story that started it all - such a creative, truly unique to incorporate vampires with angels and Roman history. Having said that, the delivery was kind of blah. I wish I could say I was sucked in to Skylar and Ollie's adventures or Kingsley and Mimi's quest or the love triangle (with an infinite number of sides) with all of the character. But I wasn't. The most interesting part was the battle that Bliss is facing, but the way she discovered everything about herself - the constant What an amazing story that started it all - such a creative, truly unique to incorporate vampires with angels and Roman history. Having said that, the delivery was kind of blah. I wish I could say I was sucked in to Skylar and Ollie's adventures or Kingsley and Mimi's quest or the love triangle (with an infinite number of sides) with all of the character. But I wasn't. The most interesting part was the battle that Bliss is facing, but the way she discovered everything about herself - the constant reminders of who she is, the way she has to lecture her mind into what's true and her thoughts - are kind of boring and annoying flat. A note about the audiobook: The voices are all wrong! The narrator reads like an old, proper Englishwoman (but without the British accent), not one you would think was reading for young adult novel. Skylar sounds like a 10-year-old boy, and Mimi sounds like a woman in her 40s who has a deeper voice than Kingsley! And Bliss sounded like a dramatic southern Belle, not an aristocratic, rich former model living in New York. Either way, I really like the background story, and I'm interested to see what happens next. On a side note, (view spoiler) [as much as I like Jack, and I know I've always rooted for her, I'm so heartbroken about Ollie. (hide spoiler) ] And so, Lex & Ella, I shall continue suffering with the same narrator for book 5, although she doesn't seem quite as old and proper, so maybe it won't be so bad. ...more (Link: http://vampirekiki.deviantart.com/art... ) No actual review, I just pimp my fanart. The Van Alen Legacy \u2026is a mission set out by Lawrence Winslow Van Alen and Cordelia Van Alen after their arrival in the New World believing that the Croatans were never vanquished and eradicated even after their Prince (Lucifer) was known to be defeated after the Roman War in the guise of the evil emperor Caligula. \u2026was passed to <---C>Schuyler Van Alen</---C> after the death of his grandfather in the hands of Dylan Ward. \u2026is the main story of the fourth book, dealing with the pursuit of the Gate of Hell where The Van Alen Legacy \u2026is a mission set out by Lawrence Winslow Van Alen and Cordelia Van Alen after their arrival in the New World believing that the Croatans were never vanquished and eradicated even after their Prince (Lucifer) was known to be defeated after the Roman War in the guise of the evil emperor Caligula. \u2026was passed to Schuyler Van Alen after the death of his grandfather in the hands of Dylan Ward. \u2026is the main story of the fourth book, dealing with the pursuit of the Gate of Hell where Lucifer is sealed after his defeat during the Roman War. \u2026is the reason why Jordan Llewellyn, famously known as the Watcher, Pistis Sophia was hired by the Van Alens. Sister of Bliss and a spy to the Llewellyns for the Van Alens suspected the eldest daughter to be the bearer of the Dark Prince\u2019s blood. \u2026where truth unfolded, Bliss the other sister of Schuyler, the daughter of Lucifer and Gabrielle (Allegra Van Alen) was foreseen to be the destroyer while Schuyler becomes the bringer of salvation. After the death of gramps, things got pretty interesting with everyone: Schuyler Van Alen a.k.a. Ms Sadist Well, well, well, Jack Force and poorie-poor Ollie\u2019s always there wherever you are. You\u2019re one hell of a lucky GIRL. You sure are looking for the Legacy thing at the same time flirting with Jack, I hope this time it\u2019s the final thing you do to hurt Ollie. Please choose, I can\u2019t stand Jack anymore and now you\u2019re adding to my source of headache! Good thing you\u2019re the heroine of the story or ELSE! Oliver Hazard-Perry a.k.a. Mr. Masochist The sacrificial lamb. Oi Ollie! Why do you keep on tagging up with Sky? Let me ask Mel if she can do you a favor of making a very beautiful girl just for you so that you won\u2019t end up being Mr. Lonely anymore. Sigh. Hey let me tell you, you\u2019re the second best guy for me after Kingsley alright?! So yay, you may be pathetic for some peeps but not for me! Benjamin \u201cJack\u201d Force a.k.a. Mr. Great Pretender Oooohhhh! I surrender! I can\u2019t say anything good with you aside from your looks. Gah! I\u2019m sorry Jack but I so hate you bleh! You earn your name pretty well, you hooking up with Sky at the same time it\u2019s just okay with you to be bonded DX tsk. tsk. tsk. Madeleine \u201cMimi\u201d Force a.k.a. The Super Bitch ala Blair Waldorf OMG! Hey bitch! Oh yes you! I love you! Haha! Know what?! I love your overly crappy romance with Kingsley. It\u2019s just so\u2026shitty sweet! It\u2019s like Blair having butterflies in her stomach because of Chuck! I\u2019m sorry I used to hate you especially during the first/second book but now I think we can be the best of friends *pukes* you\u2019re my second fave female character. Kingsley Drexel Martin a.k.a. The Mega-Flirt ala Chuck \u201cBadass\u201d Bass, My Fave Male Character 3 words. 8 letters. Say it Kingsley and I\u2019m yours!!!!!!!!!!! *hyperventilates* Kingsley looked at her with the utmost gentleness. \u201cDo not cry for me, Azrael. Do not waste your tears. You made your decision. And this is mine. Sacrifice seems to be my destiny. A funny thing for a selfish man, isn\u2019t it\u201d They always called me weak back then . . . but maybe weakness is a strength of a kind.\u201d *this scene may be the sappiest, but hey I love this one! Bliss Llewllyn a.k.a. The Freako Offspring of Lucifer (Who Am I? what happened? Where Am I?) My Fave Female Character Even if you\u2019re a freak most of the times, I still love your character. You\u2019re the one that adds spice to everything. Well, aside from Kingsley and Mimi romance you\u2019re the primary reason why I\u2019m still reading the book. My dear you\u2019re the saving grace of the book. Dylan Ward a.k.a. The Guy of My Illusions and Dreams (literally) Scary you! You\u2019re freaking me out sometimes but know what?! I think you\u2019re the sweetest guy out there. I love the way you appear in Bliss\u2019s dreams and illusions helping her when she needs you the most. Jordan Llewellyn a.k.a. The Ghost (of the Watcher) in the Shell (of a Kid) The know it all kid. That explains why she acts like a freak as well. Saying this and that suddenly and acting so bizarre all the time. Known as the Elder of the Elders, she may appear to be just a fragile looking kid despite her chubby appearance but deep inside hides the soul of an enigmatic, vigilant and immortal Watcher. Charles Force a.k.a. I\u2019ve ran out of idea what to name you Nothing much to say, well he was there with Jack to rescue Sky from the attack of the Silver Bloods during a party prepared by the European Coven(hosted by the Countess of Paris) and to seek for Leviathan and act to finish him off for good this time. Allegra Van Alen a.k.a. same goes for you Good thing she wakes up and becomes useful to everyone. I hope to see you in the next book. To sum it all up, the book was awesome. The second best after Revelations . It has the right amount of action and suspense. The struggle of Bliss against his father, Lucifer who\u2019s inside her body was pretty interesting. Very brave of her considering, how can someone fight a person/being who doesn\u2019t even have a body? The thrill of escaping the clutch of the dark prince was an attention-grabbing thing for me. After successfully escaping from his father who she hosts inside her body, Bliss becomes a lowly human. Blue Blood no more. Tsk tsk tsk. The growth and depth of characters was something to commend as well. Schuyler, who may be the heroine of the story was not the only focus of the author. Portion of the book was given to Bliss and Mimi. Remarkable parts of the story does not only fall for Sky, Ollie and Jack, also for Mimi with Kingsley and the twin Venators lastly, to Bliss, with Lucifer and the presence of Dylan Ward. The only not so good thing is, I\u2019ve read approximately 75% of the book and still clueless of what the Van Alen Legacy is. Now the shift of the story has finally begun. We are first enlightened during the third book, if I am not mistaken that vampires (Blue Bloods) residing in this world are prior angels of heaven. That after the rebellion headed by the former Prince of Heaven, Lucifer with his warriors, most importantly Azrael (Mimi) and Abbadon (Jack) were sent to earth to live the life of an outcast and be known as the damned. During this banishment that the two uncorrupted angels, Gabrielle (Allegra) and Michael(Charles) decided to join the pariah to help them attain salvation in the future and it is because of this event that Charles decided to make a pact with Lucifer. A compromise that will eventually lead to the demise of their kind (Blue Bloods). A deal made between Michael and Lucifer, making 7 gates for them to reach the paradise again. But a traitor will always be a traitor, and Lucifer chose to become a Silver Blood and opted to create more beings like him and take everyone down so he can rule all worlds, up and below. So the story continues. Now, it is not just about vampires but a concern for fallen angels as well. Better read Misguided Angel soon ^^. ...more Okay. It may sound weird, but I actually liked this book. *slow music, heads turning towards me...weird expressions...* YES! I liked this book! [image error] I really, really love The blue bloods series. Its among the top vampire books I am actually interested to read and know what gonna happen in the end. Because nowadays, vampire books are full of shit. So... basically, the fourth book was especially, like, made for me because I forgot all the characters (except for the main ones) and I read the Okay. It may sound weird, but I actually liked this book. *slow music, heads turning towards me...weird expressions...* YES! I liked this book! [image error] I really, really love The blue bloods series. Its among the top vampire books I am actually interested to read and know what gonna happen in the end. Because nowadays, vampire books are full of shit. So... basically, the fourth book was especially, like, made for me because I forgot all the characters (except for the main ones) and I read the previous books months ago. So much has been happening lately, I just can't remember everyone and I was totally confused when I read the 'The Conversation'. Yeah. I even forgot who Lawrence was. But I feel that for readers who have bought the third and this book together and immediately started reading this once revelations was over, I guess he/she would have been annoyed because, quarter of this book is just reminding us of the situation we left behind in the third book. Well, it was atleast good for me! :D And one more thing. I also liked the chapters alternate between Schuyler, Bliss and Mimi. When I read reviews of readers being like, \"It was confusing, hard, etc...\" I was like, \"What? Are you reading the same book as I am reading?\" o.O Because I will tell you what possibly could have been the reasons. (1) People got mixed up with the stories. How? I don't get it. I just turned 15 and I didn't find it confusing, then how did other readers find it complicated? (2) People hated the cliff-hanger after every chapter. Oh, Come-on! Do you really think people would have tried reading this whole book if there weren't any shocks or surprises in between? (3) Third-person point of view. Ok. Even I was a little bit disappointed, but don't tell me you actually didn't like this book or hated it so much that you wanted to burn it? What I didn't like was the fashion bags and shoes and names of stars and clothes I don't freaking know. Like, I don't know what High inch freaking Prada zebra print special edition with diamonds boots are or imagine it to be like. We got it. Saying boots simply could just be enough for us. And Vampires as angels? I still don't get it. And will never do... Now the story: Schuyler: The author could have just named her Skyler... Her story was just okay. It went slowly and was sometimes boring. Nothing too surprising, not even the ending. I was like, \"Blah. Happens in every story.\" Even though I loved Oliver. GOSH! I was so sad for him in the end. People won't accept the reality, but guys like Oliver, are actually the true heroes. Bliss: First I was really interested in her story because Lucifer was in her body. Creepy and awesome. But then slowly, slowly that awesomeness turned into fail. The author had a really good chance of writing her story nicely, but I think she didn't completely used that chance and change the story. Actually my face was like this until the very end of the book. Explains it all. Mimi: OMG! I literally loved her in this book! The most epic thing that the author ever did in this book was this. Her story was interesting. It had cliff-hangers. It showed her soft side. And most of all, it showed Kingsley. I loved him! =( Authors are always unfair with the awesome characters I like. *cold glare* Now, I actually started to like Mimi more than Bliss and maybe even more than Schuyler. I hope she gets a good ending. (: I actually rate this book 4/5 stars, and I would definitely continue reading this series. (Not really sure about Bliss's spin-off series yet)I would have really liked Mimi's though. Misguided Angel, here I come! ^.^ ...more Melissa de la Cruz has been holding out on us! The Van Alen Legacy is by far the best in series. As a reader, I got everything I wanted, plus many amazing things I never would have thought to ask for. This series is basically a vampire soap opera, but man, what a well done soap opera it is. It has been over a year since Rio and Schuyler and Oliver have been on the run nearly as long. It would seem as though she has made her choice, but just as she makes a daring move to secure her and Oliver's s Melissa de la Cruz has been holding out on us! The Van Alen Legacy is by far the best in series. As a reader, I got everything I wanted, plus many amazing things I never would have thought to ask for. This series is basically a vampire soap opera, but man, what a well done soap opera it is. It has been over a year since Rio and Schuyler and Oliver have been on the run nearly as long. It would seem as though she has made her choice, but just as she makes a daring move to secure her and Oliver's safety, she is thrown into the very thing she fears the most and into the arms of the one she can hardly bare to live without. Being her mother's unncorrupted daughter has made Schuyler the Blue Bloods last hope, but despite the fact that she has embraced her task, she has managed to run from the biggest similarity that she and her mother share, until now. Is her mother right? Are there some loves worth dying for? Bliss has been in a lost state, struggling just to remember her name. She can't account for over a year of her life, and there is a Visitor living inside her, taking over whenever he pleases. As Bliss fights to regain control of her mind, body and future, she uncovers the truth of who she is and in the process uncovers a scheme that could undo everyone and everything she has left but how do you fight something that lives in you? Will she be strong enough to stop the Visitor, before its too late? Mimi has trapsed acrossed the globe, searching for the watcher with her venator team, lead by the very one who nearly caused her death, Kingsley Martin. But everytime they think they've finally caught up, they are left wanting. Is it the year of adventure and near death experiences that has caused Mimi to reevaluated her life, or has she only just found someone that allows her to be as she truly is? Is it just meaningless nothing, and impulse of this life, of this time, or has Kingsley been there, every cycle, pushing her and possibly loving her and worse, her loving him back? I'm not going to reveal anymore, it would spoil the fun. Once again I was swept away in this complex world, with it's vibrant characters, spot on dialog, and nerve wracking plot. I can't wait to for the next installment as I am sure Cruz will manage to shock me yet again, many times. Loved it! ...more *Spoiler Alert* I'll give what I liked, did not like, and heartbreaking moments (in no particular order). What I liked: - Oliver, always Oliver. He is so caring and loving to Schuyler but sigh. - Mimi's change of attitude at the beginning and middle of the book. She was so... nice. - Trying to figure out what Schuyler's next step was going to be. Pretty much her sections of the book. What I did not like: - Bliss's sections. I avoided them. Yes she was strong for overcoming Lucifer but I did not like *Spoiler Alert* I'll give what I liked, did not like, and heartbreaking moments (in no particular order). What I liked: - Oliver, always Oliver. He is so caring and loving to Schuyler but sigh. - Mimi's change of attitude at the beginning and middle of the book. She was so... nice. - Trying to figure out what Schuyler's next step was going to be. Pretty much her sections of the book. What I did not like: - Bliss's sections. I avoided them. Yes she was strong for overcoming Lucifer but I did not like how she chose to deal with trivial matters like modeling or not sending more warnings. - Mimi's personality at the end of the book. She basically went back to her lavish life and did not change, according to Bliss because whenever they talked, it was about makeup and clothes and Mimi's vanity. Heartbreaking moments: - When Schuyler had to separate from Oliver at the party because he selflessly gave himself up to be a distraction for Schuyler's sake. . - Every time Mimi chose Jack over Kingsley. - Mimi and Kingsley's scene in the glom where they separate forever. I just felt bad for them because they could have really had something since they were both similar in character. - Mimi waiting for Jack in the church. - Even though I did not like Bliss's sections that much, I still felt bad for her especially when she saw Dylan. - All those trapped souls in Silver Bloods. - Oliver having to give Schuyler up because he felt like he couldn't protect her. I just... It was so sad for me to see him that way. He loves her that much. It was a long read for me. Took about a month for me to finish. Once I got past the middle, I could keep going. I really would like to know what will happen to them. That's the only reason why I keep reading the series because the writing doesn't impress me much because they sound too formal in some parts. It's partially because I'm confused about the ideas since there is a lot of \"history\" for the Blue Bloods and I have to keep thinking about all the rules and regulations they have. Still, I'll read the next book anyway. All of these are my (possibly unpopular) opinions. Yup. ...more So, I'd firstly like to address the fact that this is not the last book of the series. I don't know why I was led to believe that it was, but let me tell you, it is a huge disappointment to read a book and discover that the saga is still not over when you've finished. I kind of just want to see this series end. I stand by what I said last time, I'm in it for the plot. I do have to commend de la Cruz, as I thought her writing had definitely improved significantly in this book. But it's still a lo So, I'd firstly like to address the fact that this is not the last book of the series. I don't know why I was led to believe that it was, but let me tell you, it is a huge disappointment to read a book and discover that the saga is still not over when you've finished. I kind of just want to see this series end. I stand by what I said last time, I'm in it for the plot. I do have to commend de la Cruz, as I thought her writing had definitely improved significantly in this book. But it's still a lot of \"ooh, look how fancy we are\" and not that much substance, and what substance it does have, it moves excruciatingly slowly. I did feel like a lot of what happened, happened too conveniently, too much like wish fulfillment for all of the characters, tied up way too nicely. I'm still sick of the fact that Jack Force...exists. I do suppose that the fact that I feel so strongly about the characters means that they are developed quite well. [And I must ask, did anyone else see the Bliss/Harry parallels? Or is it just the freak in me noticing these things? :P] The one exception to the idea of well developed characters is seen in Mimi Force. I found her storyline boring as ever. I'm left, yet again, with that nagging feeling of not having a clue what a sequel could possibly contain. The defeat of the bad guys, I suppose? There's not much room for character development then, is there? In which case, I'm hoping really hard that the plot moves along faster, or I might give up on these books just yet. Rating: 4/5 ...more Reviewed by YoungBibliophile for TeensReadToo.com Blue Blood Schuyler Van Alen and her Conduit, Oliver Hazard-Perry, are on the run. Her grandfather has just been murdered by the Silver Bloods, but the Conclave thinks she did it. Their last hope is to ask the European Conclave for refuge and aid as she tries to fight the demon that killed her grandfather and is looking to maybe get her next. Meanwhile, her best friend, Bliss Llewellyn, in is the Hamptons, where her body has been taken over by an un Reviewed by YoungBibliophile for TeensReadToo.com Blue Blood Schuyler Van Alen and her Conduit, Oliver Hazard-Perry, are on the run. Her grandfather has just been murdered by the Silver Bloods, but the Conclave thinks she did it. Their last hope is to ask the European Conclave for refuge and aid as she tries to fight the demon that killed her grandfather and is looking to maybe get her next. Meanwhile, her best friend, Bliss Llewellyn, in is the Hamptons, where her body has been taken over by an unknown spirit she calls \"The Visitor.\" Mimi Force is flying around the world, looking for Bliss's sister, Jordan, who is actually The Watcher, an age-old Blue Blood who keeps a lookout for the fallen angel, Lucifer. Old love brings Schuyler back to New York along with Mimi as Bliss fights to overcome her mysterious Visitor. But in the end, they must all come together to fight the Silver Bloods when they return with a vengeance. I really enjoyed this installment of the BLUE BLOODS series. Seeing the characters mature and change along with their relationships was so satisfying. We also learn a lot about the history of the Blue Bloods and the Croatan betrayal, which all ties into real history, which was really interesting. Overall, this was a great read, and I can't wait for the next one! ...more At A Glance Genre: Young Adult; Vampire Love Triangle/Insta Love?: Weird Triangle. Cliff Hanger: (i don't remember.... my bad.) Rating: 3.5 Stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 7 Characters: 8 World Building: 7 Flow: 6 Series Congruity: 8 Writing: 7 Ending: 6 Total: 7 In Dept Best Part: More action scenes. Worst Part: Still lost on what's going on. Thoughts Had: what is happening!?; Poor Bliss; I'm lost. Conclusion Continuing the Series: yes Recommending: eh Short Review: Is it bad that i don't even r At A Glance Genre: Young Adult; Vampire Love Triangle/Insta Love?: Weird Triangle. Cliff Hanger: (i don't remember.... my bad.) Rating: 3.5 Stars Score Sheet All out of ten Cover: 8 Plot: 7 Characters: 8 World Building: 7 Flow: 6 Series Congruity: 8 Writing: 7 Ending: 6 Total: 7 In Dept Best Part: More action scenes. Worst Part: Still lost on what's going on. Thoughts Had: what is happening!?; Poor Bliss; I'm lost. Conclusion Continuing the Series: yes Recommending: eh Short Review: Is it bad that i don't even remember the ending? Ugh. Okay, i have the biggest issues with this series, i like it, but i can't even tell you what's going on, ever. It so all over the place and I still get Bliss and whats-her-face mixed up all the damn time. Speaking of Bliss, i wanted to cry for her, she gets so much shit thrown at her throughout this series, i really need her to have a halfway decent ending please!!! Review in GIF Form: ...more I loved this book. It was so much better than the rest in the series. I couldn't get my eyes out of the pages. This book was amazing for a YA book, I would even say that I enjoyed it a bit more than the Morganville vampires series and as much as the vampire academy series. I loved everything about this series. The story about how vampires exist is so well created in this series that I never got bored or tired about hearing it in every book, all details and information that was said about it just I loved this book. It was so much better than the rest in the series. I couldn't get my eyes out of the pages. This book was amazing for a YA book, I would even say that I enjoyed it a bit more than the Morganville vampires series and as much as the vampire academy series. I loved everything about this series. The story about how vampires exist is so well created in this series that I never got bored or tired about hearing it in every book, all details and information that was said about it just got me more and more trapped in this amazing story. I think that how thinks worked out was the right way and I'll dye waiting till next book comes out. I don't get why I keep starting series that haven't been finished. ...more You know, if you are going to stretch out a story arc to what the author is claiming will be ten (ten!!!!) books, you have to have enough story to tell. This book did very little to advance the overall plot and just did not keep me engaged in this series, it just felt like a whole lot of nothing happened. Characterizations are flat and lack nuance. If it is not literary, then there has to be a compelling story, this one fails on both counts. I think this is another series I am done with. This is one of the best series I've ever read! This series is so so so so so so much better then Twilight not that i have any thing against twilight, but its the truth!!! i cant wait to read this!!! I think I am running a love hate relationship with this series, I get torn apart every time I write a review for the Blue Bloods series. I have to say, this book was an improvement on book three, it was a bit more entertaining early on and held my attention. There was more groundbreaking moments that put me on the edge of the seat as well as really sad scenes. If you have NOT read the first three books I would suggest not reading this review. I wouldn't want to spoil any of the book series for yo I think I am running a love hate relationship with this series, I get torn apart every time I write a review for the Blue Bloods series. I have to say, this book was an improvement on book three, it was a bit more entertaining early on and held my attention. There was more groundbreaking moments that put me on the edge of the seat as well as really sad scenes. If you have NOT read the first three books I would suggest not reading this review. I wouldn't want to spoil any of the book series for you. This book picks up with Oliver and Sky on the run because after she made her return to NYC she was accused of her grandfathers death, so now she must seek audience with a woman her grandparents knew in hopes she would keep her safe. Meanwhile, Mimi is out there with Kingsley trying to find Sophia the Watcher because she can help them find who the Silver Blood traitor is. What I like in this book... I liked the fact that Mimi seemed to have a sudden change in the beginning of the book, yes she was actually a lot more tolerable then the first three books. Her kindness towards the children was apparent and her attraction to Kingsley was actually kind of refreshing. I like Sky and Jack meeting together again and poor Oliver being Oliver, his usual sweet self even if he knows at this point he doesn't really stand a chance. He is so ridiculously loyal to Schuyler, that my heart aches for him. I liked that there was a constant pace to the book, and a lot more mind boggling secrets were revealed. I hope the last book ties a few things together, because at times it still feels like stuff is sprouting out of no where and thrown together. Like....how Bliss was born. When that part came up I was honestly like....WHAT..... Confusion... What I didn't like... Bliss wrote a small note warning people about her father because he wants to become to leader. So, it becomes this vague not and somewhere in the middle when she gets permission to have her body back, she was suppose to warn people more about him. She fails to do that when she sees Mimi and she fails to do that when she sees Oliver and Schuyler. Okay, when she knew her 'visitor' was not in her body, why didn't she write more notes? She never even mentioned it again, instead she went back to her modeling career /end of rent Mimi still going through trying to do the bond with Jack even thought her future is literally spelled out in front of her. It's obvious there is attraction between her and Kingsley and its more then obvious that Jack wants nothing to do with their bonding. Especially since in their history he has been obsessed with Allegra. The ending was also kind of depressing what happened between Kingsley and Mimi. I thought it was unfair and unfortunate the way things seemed to be going. Sky's treatment of Oliver... /end of story The ending left in another cliffhanger just like many of them, but at least I am on the way to reading the next book and the last book is already out so I should be able to finish the series without much wait... I want Allegra and Charles back together.... ...more The Van Allen Legacy is probably one of my favorite in the series. It has been over a year since the events in Rio & Lawrence Van Allen 's death. Schuyler & Oliver have been on the run nearly as long because Schuyler is the main suspect in Lawrence's murder. Though I know the book is told mostly from Schuyler's POV I was kind of bored with her story. She definitely took a backseat to Bliss & Mimi this time around. I know a lot of reviewers complained of Bliss & her parts in this bo The Van Allen Legacy is probably one of my favorite in the series. It has been over a year since the events in Rio & Lawrence Van Allen 's death. Schuyler & Oliver have been on the run nearly as long because Schuyler is the main suspect in Lawrence's murder. Though I know the book is told mostly from Schuyler's POV I was kind of bored with her story. She definitely took a backseat to Bliss & Mimi this time around. I know a lot of reviewers complained of Bliss & her parts in this book - but I found them to be really interesting! I liked seeing the way the \"Visitor\" played & manipulated her. I think it was the way Bliss constantly has to lecture her mind into sorting through what's real or true and the way her thoughts seem to drag, that are kind of boring and annoyingly flat. Mimi totally owned this book for me. I was more wrapped up in her story then anyone elses. I loved seeing such growth from her! There was a new depth in her character that has been absent in past books. She was a self centered annoying bitch before & now she has undergone a drastic change that paints our favorite little bitch in a new light. (I excuse such a blatant 360\u00b0 because this book takes place nearly a year & a half after Revelations - giving Mimi time to actually grow a heart - even if we don't witness it first hand.) I guess the most obvious cause of change is that Mimi discovers love - not the weird & creepy incestuous bond she shares with her brother but something different & real with Kingsley . Mimi's \"love\"/bond with Jack has always seemed very forced & clearly one-sided & it has definitely never seemed very sincere... By the end of this book I was surprised to find that I actually liked Mimi's character & I was now rooting for the bitch to get her HEA - (view spoiler) [The scene of Mimi and Kingsley in the glom where they separate forever made me tear up, no lie! I just felt so bad for them because they really could have had something! They were just alike & perfect for one another. It was so sad to see them separated in such a way! And with that being said, Kinglsey deserves a standing ovation, sacrificing himself the way he did - it was great! (hide spoiler) ] Definitely one of my favorite in the series! ...more I enjoyed this enough to push it to 4 stars, but I'd really like to give it 3.5 stars. I really can't get behind the Jack and Schuyler pairing because I just don't like him. Simply put, Jack has had an eternal obsession with a woman that does not love him back, and if Schuyler wasn't Allegra's daughter, he wouldn't give her a second glass. He's been in this unhealthy cycle of his for all of his existence. It's not true love, it's obsession. I'd take Oliver over Jack any day. I also didn't really I enjoyed this enough to push it to 4 stars, but I'd really like to give it 3.5 stars. I really can't get behind the Jack and Schuyler pairing because I just don't like him. Simply put, Jack has had an eternal obsession with a woman that does not love him back, and if Schuyler wasn't Allegra's daughter, he wouldn't give her a second glass. He's been in this unhealthy cycle of his for all of his existence. It's not true love, it's obsession. I'd take Oliver over Jack any day. I also didn't really buy the attraction between Mimi and Kingsley. It felt as though that was there for the sole purpose of saying, \"See? Jack's not so bad for this whole Schuyler thing. Look at Mimi and Kingsley!\" I also don't buy Allegra as the good mother. She was a horrible mother. I also had to take away for what felt like a lack of research. The presentation given in class about Caligula was iffy, to say the list, and if you take a look at the Caligula page on Wikipedia, it seems as though the girl's presentation was taken almost word for word. Wikipedia is not a very reliable source. On the whole though, I liked it. Most of the stuff that I didn't like either didn't hit me as odd or didn't happen until well over halfway through the book. Mimi was the same strong, fierce character that I've grown to love, and as long as Mimi is in there kicking butt, then I'll enjoy. Mimi's realization that Jack didn't deserve her, plus her determination to give him the punishment he deserves for backing out of their vow are great, and I only hope that Melissa de la Cruz sticks with that. It was nice seeing a softer side of Mimi in Rio, but after what Jack has done, she really shouldn't back down. ...more Schuyler: Schuyler is on the run. The Conclave thinks Schuyler has killed her grandfather. How could they think that? She was their salvation; instead they think she's their doom! Schuyler has chosen Oliver. She could not risk losing Jack forever. She loved him so much, so much she had to keep him safe. She loves Oliver now, no feelings for Jack. That is until Jack finds her in Paris. He is trying to protect her from the Silver Bloods. Jack asks her to go back to New York where she will be bette Schuyler: Schuyler is on the run. The Conclave thinks Schuyler has killed her grandfather. How could they think that? She was their salvation; instead they think she's their doom! Schuyler has chosen Oliver. She could not risk losing Jack forever. She loved him so much, so much she had to keep him safe. She loves Oliver now, no feelings for Jack. That is until Jack finds her in Paris. He is trying to protect her from the Silver Bloods. Jack asks her to go back to New York where she will be better off instead of endangering herself. But going back home would mean Jack would be closer now than ever and she loves Oliver...she could not break his heart. Mimi: Mimi thought that since Schuyler was out of the way that her and Jack would finally be able to love one another. But she was wrong. Jack's broken and sad. He doesn't even care for Mimi, not like he cared for Schuyler. Mimi left him for a year to go on a mission with Venators to find the Watcher. Mimi grows more attractive to Kingsley each passing day. But will she leave Jack for danger and adventure? Bliss: Bliss is the vessel of evil. Lucifer has been controlling her almost a year, while she sits back in her/his mind and watches. When Lucifer finally gives some freedom to her, she fights the temptations that Lucifer gives her. Forsyth is in on it too. He listens to the commands of Lucifer, while Bliss still has some control she tries to warn the Conclave. When Lucifer asks Bliss to kill Schuyler she has no choice. She knows what she must do... *Not Finished ...more This book took me a while to read. Normally, I devour sequels in a day, but this took me four. I just couldn't get into it. I would have to grudgingly set aside time to read it, just because I wanted to finish it and move on. I don't know what it was about this book that made me lose interest, but I have a few ideas. This book spent absolutely no time reiterating past events. This is in no way a stand-alone. So, if you want this to be your first Blue Bloods book, good luck. Even if you have read This book took me a while to read. Normally, I devour sequels in a day, but this took me four. I just couldn't get into it. I would have to grudgingly set aside time to read it, just because I wanted to finish it and move on. I don't know what it was about this book that made me lose interest, but I have a few ideas. This book spent absolutely no time reiterating past events. This is in no way a stand-alone. So, if you want this to be your first Blue Bloods book, good luck. Even if you have read every previous book in the series (like me), you might want to re-read them prior to reading this one. I got lost a lot. There were many instance where I felt the author had just gave out a clue to a puzzle, but it went just over my head. I am still not invested in the characters. Maybe its the multiple perspective chapters, or the third-person point of view, but I just don't feel particularly attached to the characters. I don't care who Schuyler (what a weirdly spelled name) ends up with, and I have a strong dislike of Bliss. The only character I remotely like is Mimi, and she managed to progress through out the book. I don't know. This book was just all-right for me. By far the best part of it is the elegantly-crafted vampire lore, and just wish the author would cut out all the Gossip Girl -type nonsense. We get it. They're rich. They live fabulous lives I can't even dream of. De la Cruz should stick to the supernatural, as that is pretty strong. ...more Okay, so I admit that after my scathing review of Revelations it's a surprise that I'm even reading this book. But I did mention that the fourth book could be interesting and thankfully I was not disappointed this time! Unlike Revelations, this book is quite action filled straight from the beginning. The chapters alternate narrative between Schuyler, Mimi, and Bliss. Schuyler is still on the run after the incidents that wrapped up Revelations. Mimi is already working as a Venator hunting for who Okay, so I admit that after my scathing review of Revelations it's a surprise that I'm even reading this book. But I did mention that the fourth book could be interesting and thankfully I was not disappointed this time! Unlike Revelations, this book is quite action filled straight from the beginning. The chapters alternate narrative between Schuyler, Mimi, and Bliss. Schuyler is still on the run after the incidents that wrapped up Revelations. Mimi is already working as a Venator hunting for who has abducted the Watcher (Bliss' little \"sister\" Jordan) and Bliss has basically been blacked out for almost a year, unable to control her body which has been overcome by Lucifer. The great thing is that almost a year has gone by and we aren't getting the excruciating details. What's more, Mimi and Jack's bonding has been put off as a result of the last book, and Mimi finds an unexpected love interest in one of her fellow Venators. So although the Mimi/Schuyler conflict is still there (perhaps moreso on Schuyler's side as Oliver is much more in the picture), it doesn't come into play until later in the book (the bonding was postponed, not cancelled after all) and when it does it is so much less irritating. This book is one event after another in sequence- totally what I was waiting for the whole time I was reading Revelations! In short- maybe it is worth reading (okay, skimming) Revelations to get to get to The Van Alen Legacy. ...more", "Title": "The Van Alen Legacy"},
