{"Comments": "This is the type of genre that holds my attention and it does not let go until I am at the last page. I love fantasy, sci-fi and great adventure. The author <---A>Jami Brumfield</---A> combines all that in this volume, and I fell in love with it. The main heroine Rebecca is a strong, wonderful and a very likable character. She is also a very complicated individual trying to handle the conflict between being a human and a wolf. Her transformation and the radical effects will leave you breathless. The author d This is the type of genre that holds my attention and it does not let go until I am at the last page. I love fantasy, sci-fi and great adventure. The author Jami Brumfield combines all that in this volume, and I fell in love with it. The main heroine Rebecca is a strong, wonderful and a very likable character. She is also a very complicated individual trying to handle the conflict between being a human and a wolf. Her transformation and the radical effects will leave you breathless. The author did an amazing job in intertwining the plot cleverly in a magical way that sends the reader through twists and turns that they are totally unexpected. I love being intrigued by the relationship between Rebecca and two hot\u2026hot\u2026supernatural men, Lucky and Gabriel that are her decision helpers. Rebecca is bestowed the responsibility of being the leader and protector of the local wolf pack. I kept changing my mind constantly about which one she should end up with, and I just could not come up to a final decision. I think the reason is that I love both men \u263a <+++>Lone Wolf Rising</+++> is an enthralling and exciting book that kept me eagerly turning the pages to find out the outcome of the conflicts between wolfs and vampires, and Rebecca\u2019s choice between Lucky and Gabriel. I am an avid reader and I know that I will follow Jami Brumfield\u2019s work. She is a delightful author and I am hooked. I already purchased her next book and I am eager to start. If you love excitement, paranormal and thrill this book will be perfect for you. I will recommend the book to all my paranormal friends and followers. ...more If you enjoy YA paranormal romance with lots of angst and adventure, you are bound to like <+++>Lone Wolf Rising</+++> by Jami Brumfield .<---F> A brand new alpha</---F>... High school senior Rebecca Winters,<---M> her twin sister Savvy</---M>, and her younger brother, Hunter, live with their grandmother after being orphaned 10 years earlier when their parents were murdered. To gain power to protect her family and help solve her parents' murders, Rebecca voluntarily submits to being changed into a werewolf. Difficult decisions... As If you enjoy YA paranormal romance with lots of angst and adventure, you are bound to like Lone Wolf Rising by Jami Brumfield . A brand new alpha... High school senior Rebecca Winters, her twin sister Savvy, and her younger brother, Hunter, live with their grandmother after being orphaned 10 years earlier when their parents were murdered. To gain power to protect her family and help solve her parents' murders, Rebecca voluntarily submits to being changed into a werewolf. Difficult decisions... As a brand new werewolf she learns that her entire pack has been wiped out, leaving her the sole survivor and the new pack alpha. The governing agency of supernaturals, the Authority , appoints a charismatic nephilim named Lucien (Lucky) to teach Rebecca some survival skills and the basics of paranormal society. She also becomes allied with Gabriel, a rogue werewolf and former member of her pack. Two heroic protectors... Problems quickly multiply. Someone is following Rebecca and spying on her home. She must protect her family but cannot reveal that she is a werewolf. Rebecca is drawn to both Lucky and Gabe, both of whom vie for her affection. Several different types of supernaturals seek alliances with the new alpha, but it is difficult to know friend from foe. Rebecca is repeatedly warned to quit pursuing the mystery of her parents' murders, so she knows that she is on to something. ...One impossible choice YA is not my usual genre, and I almost quit reading 20 percent into the book. At about 25 percent in, the romance and the plot really took off, and the book became one that I could not put down. The writing is smooth and not in present tense. The occasional switches in point-of-view are very clear. There a few editing issues (wrong word/spelling), but not so many that it detracted from the story. The lives of her family and her pack are on the line... There is lots of romance and angst, but only kissing--no explicit scenes. Although Lone Wolf Rising is a full length novel, the ending sets it up as a serial-type story (no HEA, yet) that you must continue reading to get closure. It is NOT a cliff-hanger, however. I will continue reading the The Winter Series because of all the great paranormal action and because I have to know whether it is Gabriel or Lucky who gets the girl! ...more Lone Wolf Rising By Jami Brumfield is a wonderful breath of fresh supernatural air. Okay, the subject matter has been done to death by Twilight Series and Sookie Stackhouse Series, or so I thought. Jami has revitalised the teen supernatural genre with fresh blood by the gallons and has actually surpassed those illustrious more famous series by a mile, no make that a light year. This YA Paranormal novel is an absolute must read for all fans of werewolf, shapeshifter, vampire and witches. Orphan Be Lone Wolf Rising By Jami Brumfield is a wonderful breath of fresh supernatural air. Okay, the subject matter has been done to death by Twilight Series and Sookie Stackhouse Series, or so I thought. Jami has revitalised the teen supernatural genre with fresh blood by the gallons and has actually surpassed those illustrious more famous series by a mile, no make that a light year. This YA Paranormal novel is an absolute must read for all fans of werewolf, shapeshifter, vampire and witches. Orphan Becca is a 17 year old wolf attending school in Arizona. Life is abruptly turned on its head when her pack is wiped out in a war with vampires. Now Becca is the new Alpha, so says the Authority, the rulers of the supernatural world. Becca's life becomes even more complicated when she discovers she has two suitors for her love, Lucky and Gabriel. All this at 17. It's too much too soon for poor Becca, but she must handle it. Together they and Becca's siblings vow to avenge the death of the Arizona pack and Becca's parents ten years before. Another revelation from Becca's grandmother adds more spice to the wonderful story - telling her she is also a witch spellbound against using her powers - that will keep the reader turning pages as fast as their need to discover the ending which in true brilliant fashion will leave the reader sighing for more. So this reader and all like me are now champing at the bit for more. This FIVE STAR Werewolffest with a classy difference is highly recommended and is a must read. Bring it on! ...more Rebecca has just transformed into a werewolf and is trying to keep it a secret at home, despite her twin sister's inquisitive nature. When she learns her entire pack has been murdered, she has to establish new alliances in the supernatural community and determine who she can trust. This situation is compounded by internal conflict between her human personality and her wolf personality, sizzling attraction that she has for two hot male supernaturals, worry for her siblings' safety, and her desire Rebecca has just transformed into a werewolf and is trying to keep it a secret at home, despite her twin sister's inquisitive nature. When she learns her entire pack has been murdered, she has to establish new alliances in the supernatural community and determine who she can trust. This situation is compounded by internal conflict between her human personality and her wolf personality, sizzling attraction that she has for two hot male supernaturals, worry for her siblings' safety, and her desire to avenge her parents' mysterious murders. This is a well-crafted story with compelling characters and multiple twists and turns. The internal dialogue between Rebecca and her wolf are very entertaining. I am chomping at the bit for the sequel to come out! ...more My exposure to YA paranormal romance has been limited, but I found this book better than the few mainstream publishing titles I have had occasion to pick up in this genre. It starts rather abruptly with a letter to the reader explaining the premise in a manner that reads more like a sequel than a first novel. All that is missing are the words \"previously on Lone Werewolf.\" Once you get into the world, however, you find yourself genuinely liking and caring about the main character whose name, I ha My exposure to YA paranormal romance has been limited, but I found this book better than the few mainstream publishing titles I have had occasion to pick up in this genre. It starts rather abruptly with a letter to the reader explaining the premise in a manner that reads more like a sequel than a first novel. All that is missing are the words \"previously on Lone Werewolf.\" Once you get into the world, however, you find yourself genuinely liking and caring about the main character whose name, I have to point out, is Becca (painfully close to \"Bella\" but the similarity ends there... or, well, it ends with the fact that she is a high school student from Arizona... well, not quite, it ends with the fact that she's living with an estranged relative whom she barely knew until her parents died and who is completely (seemingly?) oblivious to the supernatural world in which Becca is embroiled). I joke about the similarities, but the differences are there and they make the book a whole heck of a lot better than the Twilight Series. It is a better-written and more compelling story, with characters and a plot structure that are vastly more complex. The writing is more structured and practiced than Stephanie Meyer's. The book also has more stakes, dealing with more interesting and provocative concepts right from the get-go. For example (no spoilers) in the very first chapter, a gay character is introduced (something quite refreshing) and a conflict is set up (he is \"closeted\" and preparing to come out to his father). Oh, and there's a werewolf-vampire war and the main character is a werewolf witch and her parents died when she was young after spellbinding her and her siblings. These are just some examples of that the author gives us to play with in this book. Giving her character the ability to talk with her creepy \"wolf\" alter ego is another interesting move that lends a psychological quirkiness to the story arc. At 450 pages, you get your money's worth in length. The book is thick but it doesn't drag. Fans of Deborah Harkness might find this book stimulating. I'm more of a David Wellington Frostbite guy, but this book has its humor and its bold characters to keep you reading all the way to the end. ...more *I got a free ebook copy of this book in exchange for a review. I LOVED THIS BOOK! When I saw this book in the giveaways section, I was hesitant about asking to read because I have read so any meaningless and boring supernatural novels these past few months. This book was the complete opposite. So this book starts off rather abruptly when she is retching up blood. Yup you heard me right! I for one was mortified by the fact that Jami was starting this book off on that note, but I didn't let that st *I got a free ebook copy of this book in exchange for a review. I LOVED THIS BOOK! When I saw this book in the giveaways section, I was hesitant about asking to read because I have read so any meaningless and boring supernatural novels these past few months. This book was the complete opposite. So this book starts off rather abruptly when she is retching up blood. Yup you heard me right! I for one was mortified by the fact that Jami was starting this book off on that note, but I didn't let that stop me from reading the book. That there is a tip I have for you when reading this book; no matter how affronted you are, JUST KEEP READING . So back to the book. The main character in this book is a teenage girl, with an awesome enhancement that is torn between two guys. It turns out that even werewolves suffer from the normal teenage angst! :P I find that the characters in this book are developed wonderfully and give off a multi personality that people in real life have. So kudos to Jami for making that happen with her writing. I find that the plot, while a little cliche, is actually really good. The way that the storyline is written just gives it the perfect feel of a little adult and a little YA. I recommend this book to readers of YA supernatural fiction and to those looking for a light, quircky, quick read. Liked this review? Follow my blog at www.thelastpageatmidnight.blogspot.ca ...more Fantastic werewolf romance. I stepped outside of my usual comfort zone in buying this title and was rewarded with a juicy read. Rebbecca Winter goes on a haunting journey and transformation. I actually got got quite caught up in the love story. The prose is smart and taut. It's a smart piece, definitely worth your time. I love paranormal thrillers and Lone Wolf Rising is one of my favorites. It kept me hooked from the very beginning. I couldn't put it down. I immediately fell in love with the main characters and absolutely can't wait for book 2!!! Jami Brumfield is creative and imaginative! To future readers...you won't be able to put it down! This is a remarkably well written book. It is very difficult to take this genre and make it seem real, but Jami Brumfield has done it. The characters are people you might want to know and be friends with...if you didn't know the truth about some of them! The ending was a real shocker, couldn't have surprised me more, and I've already started on the sequel. Indie Author Jami Brumfield has written a great story of a girl who suddenly finds herself the alpha of a werewolf pack after the pack is brutally slaughtered by....aw, no spoilers here. The story definitely draws the reader in and makes you care about the characters. I really enjoyed this book. It was fast paced and it was non stop action throughout it. I kept thinking \"oh this person could get their own book\", \"ooh this one too\"! Lol Jami really sucks you into the story and makes you want to see them succeed. A great start to a great series! A brilliant start to what is hopefully a new series. It is well written and the pace isn\u2019t too fast or too slow. The story is told from various POV but each chapter clearly states whose view it is. It is a paranormal thriller with a romantic triangle between Rebecca, Lucky and Gabriel thrown in. Becca is a 17 year old high school student who has recently become a wolf. She has a twin called Savannah and a 16 year old brother, Hunter. All three live with their maternal grandmother following the d A brilliant start to what is hopefully a new series. It is well written and the pace isn\u2019t too fast or too slow. The story is told from various POV but each chapter clearly states whose view it is. It is a paranormal thriller with a romantic triangle between Rebecca, Lucky and Gabriel thrown in. Becca is a 17 year old high school student who has recently become a wolf. She has a twin called Savannah and a 16 year old brother, Hunter. All three live with their maternal grandmother following the death of their parents 10 years before. Adapting to her wolf is more difficult than Becca envisioned. Her wolf just happens to be an Alpha and they often argue over a variety of things, especially as to who Becca\u2019s mate is. On discovering that her entire pack has been killed, Rebecca is taken to The Authority where she learns that she is the new Alpha of the Arizona Pack. Whilst there, she also sees someone she never expected to see\u2026. Her grandmother! It is here that she learns that she comes from a long line of powerful witches and that she and her siblings had their powers bound when they were small children. As well as discovering that she is the sole survivor of her pack and that her grandmother is a witch, she also discovers that the Supernatural world consists of more than just vampires and wolves. Then there\u2019s Gabriel\u2026 the exiled son of Tomas, her now deceased Alpha. The Alpha and Gabriel inform Becca that she is his mate which she resents. Firstly, because she is only 17 and she believes that she is far too young to have a mate or to make that kind of commitment and secondly, she has her heart set on another love interest in the form of the golden haired Nephilim, Lucky\u2026. That is, until she starts spending time with Gabriel and develops feelings for him as well! And just to make matters worse, Both Lucky and Gabriel develop feelings for Becca which is not good considering they are best friends! While all this is going on, Becca is determined to discover who it was that killed her parents 10 years before. She has never believed the police theory that they died as a result of a random act of violence and it is her quest for justice which led to her making the decision to become a wolf. She also adds investigating the murder of her pack to her bucket list. In order to investigate both incidents and with the help of Gabriel, she slowly starts to rebuild the Arizona Pack. She also undergoes self-defence training with Lucky who has been tasked as her Protector by The Authority (The Supernatural world\u2019s council). The book finishes with two stunning new developments that I didn\u2019t see coming and I cannot wait until the next book is released. ...more OMG OMG OMG!!! This was amazing! I though it was an interesting twist on your typical werewolf story. The wolf spirit needing the human as a host to survive was different to what I've read in the past with regards to how to become a werewolf. this is actually what made this story so intriguing and addictive the interactions and dialogue between Becca as a human and her wolf was hilarious. the banter and arguments between the 2 going on in her mind made it clear that there are 2 separate beings in OMG OMG OMG!!! This was amazing! I though it was an interesting twist on your typical werewolf story. The wolf spirit needing the human as a host to survive was different to what I've read in the past with regards to how to become a werewolf. this is actually what made this story so intriguing and addictive the interactions and dialogue between Becca as a human and her wolf was hilarious. the banter and arguments between the 2 going on in her mind made it clear that there are 2 separate beings in the one head. the fact that they didnt always get on made me want to keep reading and find out how they resolve their issues (if they ever do!). I didn't like how her main problem always seemed to be who to choose between Lucky and Gabriel. It kinda reminded me of Twilight how she is forced to choose between the 2 boys who are of different species and how there is this love triangle. What I did enjoy was that the wolf wanted Gabriel and her human mind wanted Lucky No that could be a problem! Now Gabriel and Lucky. Both are hot, though the scruffiness that Gabriel is characterised as makes him far more sexy!. I reckon she should choose Gabriel because being her mate he is always going to be there for her no matter what. they even have a telepathy link! I never would have guessed that Becca's father was still alive. That was kind of a shock for me. though when Gabriel said that the spy was a warlock i though it could be the father (i wasnt 100% sure). What Id didnt expect was that Savvy being turned into a vampire!! No!! they are the super twins now they are mortal enemies!! I love Becca's loyalty to her family. But what i do like is that Jami has made her have this dark, violent vengeance side which is the total opposite of her twin. Celestia and Lucky's finace can just die. they piss me off. the father can die too Overall this is an amazing take on your typical werewolf supernatural book. I couldnt put it down. I literally read it in a day! it was just soo addictive. I cant't wait to read the next one. that is all. ...more \u201cLone Wolf Rising\u201d is a wonderful supernatural read. It follows 17 years old Rebecca and her transformation and integration into a werewolf pack. I am admittedly not overly keen on the genre and was reluctant to follow the recommendation by a friend but am glad I did. Blood thirst comes in many forms: Rebecca\u2019s desire to avenge her parents, and the past history between Vampires and Werewolves. But one can\u2019t always give in to one\u2019s desires, or can one? Having a heroine that is strong and sometimes \u201cLone Wolf Rising\u201d is a wonderful supernatural read. It follows 17 years old Rebecca and her transformation and integration into a werewolf pack. I am admittedly not overly keen on the genre and was reluctant to follow the recommendation by a friend but am glad I did. Blood thirst comes in many forms: Rebecca\u2019s desire to avenge her parents, and the past history between Vampires and Werewolves. But one can\u2019t always give in to one\u2019s desires, or can one? Having a heroine that is strong and sometimes weak is what made this story interesting for me. I really felt for Rebecca as she learns to hit the ground running in her new life, her role in the pack and her responsibilities and challenges. What strikes me most about Lone Wolf Rising is that it offers a lot of detail about the supernatural world, showing that the author has a deep love for the genre and is not just following a current trend. The characters and side plots are all thought through and detailed; the conflict between Vampires and Werewolves has a long history and is not just an fancy fa\u00e7ade to fill in the gaps. The story was clearly written with care and came out a true labour of love. There is something very genuine and likeable about it that made reading it very enjoyable and special. If you love the genre, you must read this. ...more I love how Rebecca isn\u2019t what one would consider alpha material, but when she is chosen by an alpha wolf spirit due to unusual circumstances, she starts taking responsibility. She doesn\u2019t really want it, doesn\u2019t know much about how to do it, and she fights against some of her wolf nature, but she does step up to the plate when it counts. Those circumstances make Rebecca the alpha of the local wolf pack by necessity, and after she accepts her responsibilities, she finds help from as many sides as I love how Rebecca isn\u2019t what one would consider alpha material, but when she is chosen by an alpha wolf spirit due to unusual circumstances, she starts taking responsibility. She doesn\u2019t really want it, doesn\u2019t know much about how to do it, and she fights against some of her wolf nature, but she does step up to the plate when it counts. Those circumstances make Rebecca the alpha of the local wolf pack by necessity, and after she accepts her responsibilities, she finds help from as many sides as she finds trouble. She was only recently made a werewolf, for the simple desire to find her parents\u2019 killer and protect her brother, sister and grandmother. There is a love triangle involved, but she handles it with caution and a bit more maturity than one might expect of a seventeen year old. The ending surprised me, but in a good way. The story doesn\u2019t end on a cliffhanger, but definitely makes you want to grab the next book right away. I will not only read the next book, but I can\u2019t wait to see what else this author will come up with. Consider me a new fan! FTC Disclaimer- This book was either purchased by the reviewer or given by the author/publisher for a fair and honest review. The reviewer is not compensated in any way by the author and/or publisher of the book(s) being reviewed. ...more I love reading paranormal books. I have read Patricia Briggs, Sherrilyn Kenyon and Amanda Quick (Jayne Ann Krentz) and love the way the tales spin and the different takes on what the author feels how paranormal beings are depicted. These writers have published their books for years and have developed their characters fully. None of the mentioned authors write for the Young Adult market and there are heavy 'romantic' scenes. However, Jami Brumfield grabbed me when many Young Adult books bore me to I love reading paranormal books. I have read Patricia Briggs, Sherrilyn Kenyon and Amanda Quick (Jayne Ann Krentz) and love the way the tales spin and the different takes on what the author feels how paranormal beings are depicted. These writers have published their books for years and have developed their characters fully. None of the mentioned authors write for the Young Adult market and there are heavy 'romantic' scenes. However, Jami Brumfield grabbed me when many Young Adult books bore me to tears, especially the Twilight series. There are many authors writing about wolves and witches, but the twist in this book is that a witch becomes a wolf without knowing she is a witch. Really different twist on the paranormal as usually the characters are just one being with maybe some lowly 'human' thrown in their DNA. Jami's writing flows, and is easy to read, There aren't gaps in the story where you wonder about a character mentioned in the earlier paragraphs; she remembers to handle all characters introduced into the story. There are just enough characters fleshed out in this book to keep the story interesting and a little romance to keep a jaded reader interested. I was floored with the twist in the plot that was thrown in just at the end of this first book and I am on the hook for the second installment!. ...more This book is totally astonishing!! There is such HUGE mystery and every chapter is filled with details. Like almost every YA book there is a love triangle that keeps things fun filled and feeling girly. The title itself gives you a clue of the whole idea. It's really interesting because the main girl, Rebecca, still has to deal with so much including going to normal school. I love that being turned into a werewolf everyone has an extra personality and a \"wolf\" as a guide. It's like sharing your This book is totally astonishing!! There is such HUGE mystery and every chapter is filled with details. Like almost every YA book there is a love triangle that keeps things fun filled and feeling girly. The title itself gives you a clue of the whole idea. It's really interesting because the main girl, Rebecca, still has to deal with so much including going to normal school. I love that being turned into a werewolf everyone has an extra personality and a \"wolf\" as a guide. It's like sharing your body with a wolf. Rebecca has a twin and knows what the bond feels like, but it's humorous to see her go at it with the wolf inside her. The book has a huge family bond idea. Rebecca loves her siblings and grandma so much and she just would protect them at any cost. All in all the book is fun,love able, and very mysterious with lots of events, and the ending just blows up in your face, all the questions you ask in the beginning are uncovered in the end. PS: to do this review I received a free copy on amazon in kindle version for Teen Critics club. ...more I have been hooked on paranormal novels since the good ole Twilight days. Lone Wolf Rising has exceeded the boundaries between a good paranormal and a great paranormal novel; as it went beyond greatness. I was hooked from the beginning page and did not want to put this down for any reason. I kept having to say \u2018shush, hold on a minute\u2019 every time someone wanted my attention. From one reader to the next, be aware that once you start you will not be able to stop. The main character, well really th I have been hooked on paranormal novels since the good ole Twilight days. Lone Wolf Rising has exceeded the boundaries between a good paranormal and a great paranormal novel; as it went beyond greatness. I was hooked from the beginning page and did not want to put this down for any reason. I kept having to say \u2018shush, hold on a minute\u2019 every time someone wanted my attention. From one reader to the next, be aware that once you start you will not be able to stop. The main character, well really there are several, since at times they have their POV shown. But the obvious main character, Rebecca, is one that is well developed and promises to be legendary as the series continues. I love the fact that most paranormal entities were included. Sometimes books only deal with vampires or were wolves, but Lone Wolf Rising has it all going on! There were many instances that I thought to myself \u2018I did not see that coming on\u2019, like the ending; complete shocker!! I can\u2019t wait for book two. I\u2019m sure with Ms. Brumfield\u2019s talent and imagination this series will rise to the top. ...more This was one hot mess I can't believe I actually completed this book. It was rough. It seems as if it were consumed by overabundance of details. One simple act seemed to take several pages and was filled with unnecessary dialogue and specifics. The plots was overly predictable and beyond juvenile. I'm not sure my middle school daughter would even enjoy this one. I really hate to write such a negative review, but there was nothing that I really enjoyed here. The multiple peoples POVs were tiring. This was one hot mess I can't believe I actually completed this book. It was rough. It seems as if it were consumed by overabundance of details. One simple act seemed to take several pages and was filled with unnecessary dialogue and specifics. The plots was overly predictable and beyond juvenile. I'm not sure my middle school daughter would even enjoy this one. I really hate to write such a negative review, but there was nothing that I really enjoyed here. The multiple peoples POVs were tiring. The characters felt flat and were incredibly one dimensional. Throw in the lack of any sort of closure, and this book is what you get. It was just a lame read for me and nothing about it worked for me. The high reviews I found to be overly misleading. This might work for someone that enjoys more immature YA layouts? I'm not sure, but it won't be one I'm recommending nor a series I will continue. ...more I read quite of paranormal genre books, not so often I read YA, but this one captivate me from the beginning. The strength in Rebecca choosing to be a wolf, her determination to know the truth about her parents death, and the added difficulty of two suitors trying to get to her heart, is refreshing and sticks to the story. Rebecca, 17 years old, recently became a wolf and discovered that her pack has been annihilated. Lucky, a protector that make her legs wobble, a grandmother witch, vampires, d I read quite of paranormal genre books, not so often I read YA, but this one captivate me from the beginning. The strength in Rebecca choosing to be a wolf, her determination to know the truth about her parents death, and the added difficulty of two suitors trying to get to her heart, is refreshing and sticks to the story. Rebecca, 17 years old, recently became a wolf and discovered that her pack has been annihilated. Lucky, a protector that make her legs wobble, a grandmother witch, vampires, dream walkers, trolls and Gabriel, who is convinced she is his mate, the Authority... all a new world of supernatural beings and responsibilities, that could bring death or war if she mistakes a decision. And all wrap up with an alpha wolf with a strong conscience deep inside her mind, who sometimes makes her nuts, but usually has it right. All ingredients for an excellent series. I only hope she choses right... in life and in love. ...more Absolutely brilliant, cannot wait to read the next one! Seriously, when is the next one out Jami?? I have read a few werewolf books before, but this was a little different to those I've read. Action, love, death, suspense, family, not to mention the different races of supernatural beings. Each character was well described and gave you a great inside vision of the character. The book started off as Rebecca being a very newly turned werewolf, rather than starting the series with a story of her begi Absolutely brilliant, cannot wait to read the next one! Seriously, when is the next one out Jami?? I have read a few werewolf books before, but this was a little different to those I've read. Action, love, death, suspense, family, not to mention the different races of supernatural beings. Each character was well described and gave you a great inside vision of the character. The book started off as Rebecca being a very newly turned werewolf, rather than starting the series with a story of her beginnings, Brumfield got straight in there with an amazing action packed, edge of your seat, first book. I will not give anything away, but if you like supernatural and fantasy books this one is a must read! If you wish to give fantasy a go then this is the perfect book to start off with! Read it! ...more This book has everything. Werewolves, sexy nephilim, witches, vampires, and a treacherous mystery surrounding some murders. Rebecca is a girl on a mission to avenge her deceased parents and we watch her develop a bevy of powers gained by her change into a lycanthrope. It's been a while since I read and enjoyed a tale written from the teen perspective, but this was a witty and intriguing read. The longer story allows you plenty of time to get to know the characters and to truly fall in love with t This book has everything. Werewolves, sexy nephilim, witches, vampires, and a treacherous mystery surrounding some murders. Rebecca is a girl on a mission to avenge her deceased parents and we watch her develop a bevy of powers gained by her change into a lycanthrope. It's been a while since I read and enjoyed a tale written from the teen perspective, but this was a witty and intriguing read. The longer story allows you plenty of time to get to know the characters and to truly fall in love with them. I was reminded vaguely of Twilight at the start, but thankfully, the book took a swift detour from that and delved into the realm of the magical with so many different twists and turns to keep me entertained. The end especially blew me away. ...more Lone Wolf Rising (Book 1 of the Winters Saga) by author Jami Brumfield is a nice mix of young adult paranormal with wolves and witches. I love the cover, and this seems to be a decent start to series. I would definitely class this as young adult, however I enjoyed the storyline, took me back to my school days, minus the supernatural! Overall this was a great read, and I would recommend and would love to continue series. I was provided a complimentary kindle copy in exchange for review courtesy F Lone Wolf Rising (Book 1 of the Winters Saga) by author Jami Brumfield is a nice mix of young adult paranormal with wolves and witches. I love the cover, and this seems to be a decent start to series. I would definitely class this as young adult, however I enjoyed the storyline, took me back to my school days, minus the supernatural! Overall this was a great read, and I would recommend and would love to continue series. I was provided a complimentary kindle copy in exchange for review courtesy FanGirls and Fanboys. ...more Okay..so I finally had time to finish this book. Although I don't ever read YA books I gave this one a shot. I love to read anything paranormal. With that being said this was a very good read. Well worth the wait. It obviously didn't focus on a lot of sex (which is nice depending on the type of book), a decent amount of lust, and drama had me interested. I really enjoyed reading this book and look forward to finishing the series. I guess not all YA books are not so bad after all ;) While reading this book I was taken to a magical world where werewolves exist and the main character takes on the challenges of living in this chaotic world while trying to hunt down the people responsible for the murder of her parents. This writer is so extraordinary and I can't wait to read anything else that she partakes in. The beginning was a little hard for me to get into, but I quickly became absorbed into the plot. This particular paranormal touches on pretty much every otherworldly creature: wolf, nephilim, vampire, troll, fairy, witch, wizard, guardian, dream weaver, etc. I really liked this book, and I look forward to reading book 2. Absolutely fantastical!!!!! Becca's tale grabbed me in, I could not put it down. All the twist and turns and add two suitors, a protector/trainer and a rogue who claims to be Becca's true mate. This book have everything in it to make you swoon and keep you reading. What's going to happen next, yeah I kept wanting that. Love this book! *I received a free copy of this book to read and review* There are three criteria by which I judge a book: writing quality, story line/plot, and character voice. Lone Wolf Rising delivers in all three. Writing quality (4 stars): Brumfield is a strong writer. Even though this is all I have read by her, I have a feeling that if she were to write an instruction manual, I still be drawn in to read it front to back. That said, however, this book could use another edit. I discovered many typos while ju *I received a free copy of this book to read and review* There are three criteria by which I judge a book: writing quality, story line/plot, and character voice. Lone Wolf Rising delivers in all three. Writing quality (4 stars): Brumfield is a strong writer. Even though this is all I have read by her, I have a feeling that if she were to write an instruction manual, I still be drawn in to read it front to back. That said, however, this book could use another edit. I discovered many typos while just casually reading (I probably would have found more if I were looking): \"form\" instead of \"from\", \"I\" instead of \"It\", an entire word missing in a sentence, two periods at the end of a sentence, etc. I also noticed a few repetitive parts that could be condensed (*Small Spoiler* for example, it is mentioned 3 or 4 times in one chapter that Lucky and Rebecca drove home alone because Hunter and Savvy had a late practice after school; once would have sufficed). These are minor things, but the mistakes do take the reader out of the story and can be easily fixed. Story (3 stars): Ok, I was actually incredibly drawn into the story and stayed up late last night finishing the book because I could not put it down. Why only 3 stars then? You ask. There were just too many similarities with the Mortal Instruments series. I'll admit that I have not read many paranormal teen romance books, so I'm not sure what is derivative from The Mortal Instruments series and what is just a trope or archetype of the genre, but it was too close for my comfort. However, Lone Wolf Rising is unique enough to be enjoyable, especially if you like the genre. Character voice (5 stars): When I am reading a book, I want to be able to tell the difference between the characters by just reading the dialogue and description of the action, especially when chapters are going to be from different perspectives, like in this book. One of the biggest failures of Allegiant was that Roth only wrote in one voice; every character was the same in my head. Brumfield, however, gave each of her characters unique personalities. Without having to go back to the beginning of the chapter, I was able to tell whose point of view each chapter was from, and I knew when Rebecca was having a conversation with Lucky, or Gabriel, or Jackson, without having to read the indications of who was speaking. Bottom line: I recommend giving the series a try. I'm going to get the next book in the series myself. ...more Rebecca and her family are working through the death of their parents. Rebecca has had to make difficult choices to protect her family and bring the murderers to justice. She knows that she cannot do it as a human and submits to being turned into a werewolf. But, life as a werewolf isn\u2019t all that it seems to be when her pack is brutally murdered. She is now the sole surviving member and the new pack alpha. With her new responsibilities, she gains new allies and new enemies. She has been given a Rebecca and her family are working through the death of their parents. Rebecca has had to make difficult choices to protect her family and bring the murderers to justice. She knows that she cannot do it as a human and submits to being turned into a werewolf. But, life as a werewolf isn\u2019t all that it seems to be when her pack is brutally murdered. She is now the sole surviving member and the new pack alpha. With her new responsibilities, she gains new allies and new enemies. She has been given a protector, Lucky. Lucky masquerades as her boyfriend, but their feelings soon become more than just their cover story. Add in Gabriel, the former alphas estranged son, and you\u2019ve got a mega love triangle. Gabriel is sure she\u2019s his mate, but when Rebecca\u2019s heart lies torn between them, he has to compete for her affections. Will she be able to rebuild her pack, chose between these two very different men, and protect her family all at the same time? Lone Wolf Rising is a YA read. Yet, its jam packed with yummy teen angst, action, and a budding love story. It is rich in supernatural lore and I love this novel for it. You never know what lies around the corner in Rebecca\u2019s past and present. Her family has deep seeded secrets. Rebecca is being pulled in so many directions when it comes to duty, I cannot help but relate with her. She has so much to deal with at her young age, and she knows that cannot please everyone. This novel is a great start to new exciting YA series. It is by far one of the best YA reads in my opinion. Brumfield has a knack for descriptive written and the ability to deeply immerse you into her story. The open ended cliff hanger has me waiting to immediately start the next book in the series to find out who Rebecca chooses as her life mate! ...more When seventeen-year-old Rebecca Winters chooses to become a werewolf to avenge her parents' deaths and protect her family, she embarks on a journey of self-discovery. Her grandmother has kept secrets from her and her siblings, Savannah and Hunter, with whom she's very close. Rebecca meets Lucian (Lucky), who's an angel sworn to protect her, and Gabriel, a fellow werewolf that her alpha is deeply attracted to. Although she's torn between the two men, she's also absorbed in rebuilding her pack and When seventeen-year-old Rebecca Winters chooses to become a werewolf to avenge her parents' deaths and protect her family, she embarks on a journey of self-discovery. Her grandmother has kept secrets from her and her siblings, Savannah and Hunter, with whom she's very close. Rebecca meets Lucian (Lucky), who's an angel sworn to protect her, and Gabriel, a fellow werewolf that her alpha is deeply attracted to. Although she's torn between the two men, she's also absorbed in rebuilding her pack and negotiating the perils of the supernatural world she now inhabits. I found Jami Brumfield's novel engrossing and entertaining--and the end definitely leaves you \"hungering for more.\" The author did an amazing job of weaving all the integral parts of the story together and springing a few surprises on the reader. I look forward to reading the other books in Ms. Brumfield's Winters Saga Series! ...more<---C>Jami Brumfield</---C>", "Title": "Lone Wolf Rising"},
