{"Comments": "<+++>The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution</+++>On Monday,<---M> an old friend came round to lunch</---M>, and, while we were having a cup of tea in the living room, remarked on the number of <---A>Richard Dawkins</---A> books on my shelf. Somehow, I'd never heard that she'd actually had Dawkins as a supervisor for one term when she was an undergraduate at Oxford in the late 70s; it was in connection with the course she was reading on animal behaviour. I asked what he was like as a person, and she was unenthusiastic. Clearly very intelligent, but there was something a On Monday, an old friend came round to lunch, and, while we were having a cup of tea in the living room, remarked on the number of Richard Dawkins books on my shelf. Somehow, I'd never heard that she'd actually had Dawkins as a supervisor for one term when she was an undergraduate at Oxford in the late 70s; it was in connection with the course she was reading on animal behaviour. I asked what he was like as a person, and she was unenthusiastic. Clearly very intelligent, but there was something about him that she found disquieting. She wouldn't go so far as to say that he'd behaved inappropriately, there was never a specific incident she could point to, but she constantly felt that he was just an inch from the line. Well... charismatic, thirty-something male supervisor, attractive young female undergraduate, animal behaviour, you can see plenty of scope for that. And she said that, even then, he'd go on about religion. After a while, she became increasingly sure that his hostile feelings were rooted in some kind of personal disappointment he'd suffered, though she had no idea what it might have been. I asked her which Dawkins she'd read, and, like most people, it was The Selfish Gene and The God Delusion .<---F> She hadn't particularly liked either one</---F>. I can sympathize with her point of view. But, as other reviewers here have said, Dawkins is a more complex person than he's generally given credit for, and if you read The Ancestor's Tale you'll see another side. I suppose one could say that he's attacking religion here too, but the strategy is completely the opposite of the blunt, in-your-face assault he uses in the The God Delusion ; to my mind, it's also far more effective. Rather than tell you what's ugly and wrong about Intelligent Design, he concentrates his energies on showing you what's beautiful and right about evolution, and how, far from contradicting traditional religious beliefs, it reveals them with a clarity that previous generations have been unable to see. I kept thinking of Saint Francis of Assisi, and his love of all living creatures. \"Brother bird, sister ant\"... they're beautiful poetic phrases. But what do they mean? Evidently, this finch can't literally be my brother. There is no way that my mother could have given birth to him. The conventional explanation is that we're both \"children of God\", which is fine as far as it goes; the problem is that it doesn't really shed much light on the nature of our relationship. The astonishing thing about evolution, which forms the core of this book, is that it shows how the bird and ant truly are my brother and sister. Well, not quite brother and sister - in fact, they're very distant cousins. Dawkins traces the family tree, and shows precisely how we're all related. He starts with the obvious cases (<---B>apes, monkeys</---B>), then goes back to other mammals, and then further through reptiles, birds, amphibians, insects, sponges, plants and all the way to protozoa. On the way, he tells you some extraordinary stories. Well, that shouldn't be a surprise; think what interesting stories you hear when you meet up with a friend you used to know well, but haven't seen for a decade. Here, you are in some cases meeting up with people you haven't seen for several hundred million years. At the end, I felt, as I had never felt before, how we're all one family in the plain, everyday sense of the word, and how we're linked though the genes we share, which we've inherited from our common ancestors. It's a truly incredible thought. As Dawkins says on the last page: it's not so much that he disagrees with religious people, it's more that they're saying it the wrong way. If you are yourself a religious person who wants to learn to be closer to God and His Creation, you could do worse than read this book. ...more There are some facts the simple knowing of which seems to me to be a supreme achievement of our species. The fact that we are all made of stardust. The fact that 99.9999999999999 percent of all matter is empty. The fact that mass and energy can be expressed in terms of each other. Stuff like that. Pre-eminent among these to me, for sheer mind-expanding awe, is the fact that life on this planet has developed precisely once, as far as we know, and everything on earth has evolved from it. That means There are some facts the simple knowing of which seems to me to be a supreme achievement of our species. The fact that we are all made of stardust. The fact that 99.9999999999999 percent of all matter is empty. The fact that mass and energy can be expressed in terms of each other. Stuff like that. Pre-eminent among these to me, for sheer mind-expanding awe, is the fact that life on this planet has developed precisely once, as far as we know, and everything on earth has evolved from it. That means that when you go outside and lie down in the garden, everything you can see and hear \u2013 people walking nearby, their pet dogs, the squirrel darting past, the birds you can hear tweeting, the insects and tiny bugs crawling around underneath you, the trees the birds are standing on, the grass you're lying on, the bacteria in your guts \u2013 all of them are your cousins: you're quite literally related to them in the real, genealogical sense. If you go far enough back in time, in other words, you will eventually find a creature whose descendants evolved into both squirrels (say) and people. Indeed, the rules of heredity being what they are, you could even find a single individual who was a common ancestor to every squirrel and human alive. And indeed such an animal really did exist, around 75 million years ago in the Upper Cretaceous. It probably looked sort of mousey, and Dawkins estimates that he or she was our \u201815-million-greats-grandparent\u2019. Squirrels are not \u2018closer\u2019 to this creature than humans are: we and they are equally related, having been evolving independently for the same amount of time. The Ancestor's Tale takes exactly this approach to exploring evolution. It starts with humans and works backwards \u2013 looking first at the common ancestor between humans and chimpanzees, and continuing until we reach the common ancestor of all life on earth. Dawkins's word for a common ancestor of more than one species is \u2018concestor\u2019, and there are only about 40 of them (!) between us and the origin of life more than three billion years ago. The Cretaceous mammal I mentioned above, which evolved into us and squirrels (along with all the other rodents, lagomorphs and primates), is Concestor 10 according to this schema. I think there's a lot of traps you can fall into when you start thinking about evolution. It's easy to feel, instinctively, that evolution is somehow teleological: that it's been working towards \u2013 if not us, then at least creatures that are increasingly complex and increasingly intelligent. But that of course is not the case. Things survive that reproduce themselves well, and there are plenty of single-celled organisms still with us that have seen no need to get any more complicated for millions of years. Bacterial life is in fact astonishingly varied and rich, whole phyla of creatures that branched off before multicellular life even came about; indeed, chemically speaking, we are more similar to some bacteria than some bacteria are to other bacteria. Just think about that for a second. Before Dawkins got distracted by religious idiocy, he was well known as being one of the scientists most able to explain complicated ideas in a fresh and accessible way. All his skills are on display in this work. It's not just the zoology and the evolutionary biology, where you'd expect him to be strong; there's also a fantastically lucid explanation of the biochemistry within a cell, and even one of the best explanations of the physics of radioactivity that I've come across. He is calm and careful; he repeats himself where necessary; he shares several teacherly witticisms; and he does all this without ever condescending to the reader. He allows paragraphs of complex material to sit, so that you can read and re-read them a few times before he carries on. Occasionally he cannot stop himself breaking out in exclamations of wonder or poetic meditation \u2013 as when he discusses the fossilised footprints of three early hominids from some three-and-a-half million years ago: Who does not wonder what these individuals were to each other, whether they held hands or even talked, and what forgotten errand they shared in a Pliocene dawn? His enthusiasm is infectious. The whole book is a fantastic exploration of this most beautiful piece of modern human understanding. It's full of astonishing anecdotes and scientific details about the natural world, but it also all ties together into a conception of life that's more awe-inspiring and more moving than any supernatural system could ever be. ...more Poor Dawkins - he gets a bad reputation. People think he's mean and nasty and heartless and elitist. Okay, I might have to grant people the \"elitist\" bit, because, well, I'm a bit of an elitist myself. But I dare you all to read this book and then tell me that Dawkins isn't a total squishy. Let's just say this - he stops in the middle of the book to talk about how much he misses Douglas Adams, who was a dear friend of his. He waxes poetic about evolution and how much he wishes he could meet our Poor Dawkins - he gets a bad reputation. People think he's mean and nasty and heartless and elitist. Okay, I might have to grant people the \"elitist\" bit, because, well, I'm a bit of an elitist myself. But I dare you all to read this book and then tell me that Dawkins isn't a total squishy. Let's just say this - he stops in the middle of the book to talk about how much he misses Douglas Adams, who was a dear friend of his. He waxes poetic about evolution and how much he wishes he could meet our ancestors. He refers to Olivia Judson's \"Doctor Tatiana's Sex Guide for All Creation,\" makes a brief homage to it, and then sweetly states that he could never do the style justice (making clear along the way that he's read the darned thing, which delights me for reasons that can only be understood by someone else who's read the book, because it's Just That Fabulous). And he puts his wife in the index, even though the references to her are miniscule (and, in fact, much less frequent than in any other book). He credits his research assistant as his co-author. In general, he's a sweetheart. I will stop fangirling the man, now, and simply tell you that the science in this book? Is brilliant, wondrous, and awe-inspiring in its breadth. Fantastic book. ...more This book blew my mind so many times in so many ways. It is quite simply the most fascinating thing I have ever read about life on this planet. Dawkins traces our evolution from the present day back through the very first organisms on earth. He uses various \"rendezvouses\" to show the points where we connected with other species and phyla and what those connections say about us, about our biology and about life in general. By tracing our lineage back through these various \u201cconcestors\u201d Dawkins mak This book blew my mind so many times in so many ways. It is quite simply the most fascinating thing I have ever read about life on this planet. Dawkins traces our evolution from the present day back through the very first organisms on earth. He uses various \"rendezvouses\" to show the points where we connected with other species and phyla and what those connections say about us, about our biology and about life in general. By tracing our lineage back through these various \u201cconcestors\u201d Dawkins makes you realize just how unique and amazing your own body is\u2026 amazing in ways you probably always took for granted. From the way we gestate to the fact that we have a spinal column to the way that our own cells even work. It was never a guarantee that we would have ANY of these things. It seriously makes you wonder how everything might have turned out had different evolutionary pressures been exerted millions, or even billions of years ago. For instance, had a meteorite not wiped out the dinosaurs, \u201cwe\u201d would probably still be little more than tiny rodents scavenging for scraps at night while the REAL rulers of the planet slept. Dawkins touches on this latter aspect in the final chapter, with a series of thought experiments about how things might go down if evolution were to \u201crerun\u201d from the beginning. Which aspects of life would be likely to sprout up again? Which aspects were far-fetched happy accidents? Perhaps one of the most mind blowing statements Dawkins makes is in reference to eukaryotic cells, which comprise every form of life on this planet except for bacteria. The formation of these special and absolutely \u201cnecessary\u201d cells was such a long shot evolutionarily speaking that Dawkins doubts it likely to have happened twice. In fact he goes so far as to say he thinks that the formation of eukaryotic cells was probably MORE unfathomable than the initial spark of life itself! Whoever said scientists strip all the magic and wonder out of the universe has obviously never read this book. Dawkins' prose, as always, is fresh, illuminating, and often humorous, explaining heavy concepts so they make perfect sense to a layman. Seriously, if you're interested in this stuff at all, add this one to the very top of your list. ...more Fantastic! If I'd read this in high school I would definitely be a biologist by now. Often I agree with Dawkins' views on creationists, but usually he's an obnoxious ass about it. Thankfully, in this book he only disses them occasionally. For most of the book he sticks to his strengths, i.e., clear and exciting explanations of the beautiful yet structured diversity of the natural world. Lots of nifty thoughts about how evolution works and how mind-shatteringly cool life is. There's an interesting Fantastic! If I'd read this in high school I would definitely be a biologist by now. Often I agree with Dawkins' views on creationists, but usually he's an obnoxious ass about it. Thankfully, in this book he only disses them occasionally. For most of the book he sticks to his strengths, i.e., clear and exciting explanations of the beautiful yet structured diversity of the natural world. Lots of nifty thoughts about how evolution works and how mind-shatteringly cool life is. There's an interesting structure to the book, traveling backwards in time from today to the origin of life, and telling tales or lessons from each of our major ancestors along the way. It made me appreciate how much more there is to life than the small handful of mammals, fish, birds, and trees we usually think about. ...more While I read different genres, I only review books with a religious content. So, if I may be excused for one of my \u201cliberal Christian rants,\u201d let me say this: It\u2019s a sad day when a book about evolution earns a spot on the shelves of a religion blog. It simply astounds me that half of all Americans still do not believe in evolution. The evidence is so overwhelmingly against a young earth that if Christianity is going to survive, it must pull its head out of the sand and reinterpret the Bible\u2019s cr While I read different genres, I only review books with a religious content. So, if I may be excused for one of my \u201cliberal Christian rants,\u201d let me say this: It\u2019s a sad day when a book about evolution earns a spot on the shelves of a religion blog. It simply astounds me that half of all Americans still do not believe in evolution. The evidence is so overwhelmingly against a young earth that if Christianity is going to survive, it must pull its head out of the sand and reinterpret the Bible\u2019s creation story (anything but a literal interpretation!) before it alienates the coming generation, who will simply know better. This book will help. I\u2019m not a fan of Dawkins\u2019 anti-religion tirades, but when he sticks to his evolutionary biology, his writing is a pure delight. It\u2019s insightful, highly intelligent, and witty. The subtitle of the book is A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution, and it\u2019s a long journey backward in time from present-day humans to the beginnings of life four million years ago. You\u2019ll meet Cro-Magnon man, the Neanderthals, chimpanzees and gorillas, monkeys, rodents and rabbits, reptiles, sharks, flatworms, sponges, fungi, plants, and far more, each with their own unique role and story to tell. Scientific understanding is, and ever will be, in a state of transition. As we learn, we shape our theories to fit the facts. It\u2019s an exploration that never ends, an exciting quest for truth that Dawkins excels in sharing. He stops often along this journey back in time to introduce interesting life forms and their evolutionary sidebars, evoking wonder and appreciation for the real creation story that far exceeds any ancient tales. It\u2019s such a treat that I\u2019m almost envious of long-time creationists who can, by opening their minds and turning the cover of this book, open themselves up to a new world of wonder. You will see the world in a different way after reading this. ...more Wow. I like Richard Dawkins. I like what he has to say in The God Delusion and I like his tweets for the same reason. Lots of people don't like his confrontational stand on religion, but don't let that put you off here. First and foremost, he is an amazing scientist. This book is so comprehensive, it is daunting just thinking about it. When I collected it from the library and saw the size, I outwardly groaned, wondering how I would tackle it. I needn't have worried. Dawkins takes us on a 'backwa Wow. I like Richard Dawkins. I like what he has to say in The God Delusion and I like his tweets for the same reason. Lots of people don't like his confrontational stand on religion, but don't let that put you off here. First and foremost, he is an amazing scientist. This book is so comprehensive, it is daunting just thinking about it. When I collected it from the library and saw the size, I outwardly groaned, wondering how I would tackle it. I needn't have worried. Dawkins takes us on a 'backwards' pilgrimage through time, showing how we humans joined up with all other living creatures along the way. After getting through half the book and discovering that we'd already passed mammals, birds and fish, I wondered how interested I'd actually be in cnidarians, ctenophores or choanoflagellates, but they proved to be equally as fascinating. Dawkins breaks the information into short chapters, or rendezvous points, relating things back to animals we've already encountered along the way. Yet he doesn't stop there. He shows how we link with fungi, plants and bacteria, before finally considering how the first life forms began and whether or not this could be recreated. What I particularly liked was how Dawkins doesn't make guesswork for periods that we just don't know about. Where dates are so far away that we don't have the full picture (500 million years and counting) Dawkins relates what is known, then tells us the current theories. The gaps still to be filled are not a disappointment, but an exciting prospect of things yet to learn. I don't have a scientific background at all, though I was able to understand most of what I read. I did get confused with some terms and with trying to keep track of the different classifications (kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus and species) or timescales (eon, era, period, epoch, age) plus all the subdivisions within these. Luckily the book was comprehensive enough that I was able to flip back to an earlier section, or refer to a chart to refamiliarise myself before moving on to the next tale. I was left feeling a little overwhelmed by the end and so I'll finish with a quote from Dawkins that encapsulates things - \"It is not pride in my book but reverence for life itself that encourages me to say, if you want a justification for the latter, open the former, anywhere at random. And reflect on the fact that although this book has been written from a human point of view, another book could have been written in parallel for any 10 million starting pilgrims. Not only is life on this plant amazing, and deeply satisfying, to all those whose senses have not become dulled by familiarity: the very fact that we have evolved the brain power to understand our evolutionary genesis redoubles the amazement and compounds the satisfaction.\" ...more Fascinating zoology but plenty of flotsam. \"The Beaver's Tale\" \"The Duckbill's Tale\" and \"The Axolotl's Tale\" are outstanding examples of modern naturalism. The classical genetics is adequate but the molecular data is explained minimally and not compelling. More details on the challenges and uncertainties inherent in genomic sequencing and cross-species comparisons would have been helpful. When Dawkins is not discussing zoology the writing is overly verbose, and suffers the professor's conceit o Fascinating zoology but plenty of flotsam. \"The Beaver's Tale\" \"The Duckbill's Tale\" and \"The Axolotl's Tale\" are outstanding examples of modern naturalism. The classical genetics is adequate but the molecular data is explained minimally and not compelling. More details on the challenges and uncertainties inherent in genomic sequencing and cross-species comparisons would have been helpful. When Dawkins is not discussing zoology the writing is overly verbose, and suffers the professor's conceit of assuming his readers are interested in his opinions on matters beyond his expertise which are infused with the type of absolutism he criticizes elsewhere in the book. The poor, strangely moralistic mathematics and tired political rants are best left for the faculty lounge or starry-eyed students. This is a good 600-page book that could be a great 300-page book with some vigorous editing. ...more After finishing The Selfish Gene, I rushed out to the store to buy another of Dawkins' books. While the size of this tome was quite intimidating, I found the premise utterly fascinating. The narrative traces humans' evolutionary ancestry, from primates to \"concestor zero,\" or the beginning of life on Earth. Dawkins' knowledge of zoology shines as he gives examples of the fascinating animals that share some of our genes. Readers will undoubtedly learn about plants and animals they had never heard After finishing The Selfish Gene, I rushed out to the store to buy another of Dawkins' books. While the size of this tome was quite intimidating, I found the premise utterly fascinating. The narrative traces humans' evolutionary ancestry, from primates to \"concestor zero,\" or the beginning of life on Earth. Dawkins' knowledge of zoology shines as he gives examples of the fascinating animals that share some of our genes. Readers will undoubtedly learn about plants and animals they had never heard of before, from Australian marsupials to the strange creatures that inhabit Madagascar. The book reads like a novel, and after finishing it I feel more connected, not just to my own species, but to all the creatures around me that share in this crazy thing called life. ...more Richard Dawkins has done an astounding job producing this book. If it were not for his other great works, The Selfish Gene and The Extended Phenotype: The Long Reach of the Gene , The Ancestor's Tale would be his best work in evolutionary science. It matters not one bit that it's a summary and synthesis of others' primary work: great scientists have always been able to look out across their field of expertise and write a defining work of value for both scientists and the educated public. My only, Richard Dawkins has done an astounding job producing this book. If it were not for his other great works, The Selfish Gene and The Extended Phenotype: The Long Reach of the Gene , The Ancestor's Tale would be his best work in evolutionary science. It matters not one bit that it's a summary and synthesis of others' primary work: great scientists have always been able to look out across their field of expertise and write a defining work of value for both scientists and the educated public. My only, slight, quibble with the book is that in the decade since it was published there has been significant change in many parts of the \"tree of life.\" More species have been discovered, more fossils found. Most importantly, molecular analysis across species of shared genetic haplotypes and DNA from mitochondria has unleashed a tidal wave of new information allowing a more precise determination of our common ancestors, especially the most distant. Dawkins used the earlier results of this same research when writing this book in 2003, but he notes in the book itself that it would have to be revised soon with new information. That, of course, is the way of science and what makes it exciting. Thus, I'm happy to find that the second, updated, edition will be published in early 2016 (see here: The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Life ) with the latest scientific developments and additional evolution-relevant species \"tales.\" I hope that one of these is \"told\" by a member of the fascinating Fungi\u2014one of the three great multicellular kingdoms\u2014with which we share an unidentified common ancestor roughly 1.1 billion years ago. The original edition naturally includes this rendezvous along with background information, but omits the tale. Should you wait for the new edition? No, unless your a critic of fine detail. The deep time and awesome diversity of evolution will not change. Our place as a species relative to the rest of life will not shift. And Dawkins' inspiring prose will remain. ...more Dawkins presents evolutionary biology in a Chaucerian format. As with the pilgrims in The Canterbury Tales, each of Dawkins tales is about pilgrims on their way to a common destination, in this case the beginning of life. Each group of species marches back in time rendezvousing where they share their most recent common ancestor, what Dawkins calls a \u201cConcester\u201d. The first rendezvous is six million years ago (6 Ma) where we, our Homo and Australopithecine ancestors share a Concestor with the chim Dawkins presents evolutionary biology in a Chaucerian format. As with the pilgrims in The Canterbury Tales, each of Dawkins tales is about pilgrims on their way to a common destination, in this case the beginning of life. Each group of species marches back in time rendezvousing where they share their most recent common ancestor, what Dawkins calls a \u201cConcester\u201d. The first rendezvous is six million years ago (6 Ma) where we, our Homo and Australopithecine ancestors share a Concestor with the chimpanzees, bonobos and their ancestors. Dawkins describes 40 rendezvous such as the apes meet the monkeys at 25 Ma, the primates meet the rodents and rabbits at 75 Ma, the chordates meet the echinoderms at 550 Ma and ending with bacteria. Working backwards helps eliminate hindsight, assuming that a creature evolved in a certain way because in the future it would be important. Each tale not only describes some life form but some aspect of science associated with it. For example we learn how scientists use the fossil record and genetic techniques as evaluation tools. He shows how dates and evolutionary branches are derived from genetics using mitochondrial DNA, the Y chromosome and triangulation of DNA sequences. He explains how dates are determined using dendrochronology (tree rings), paleomagnetism, and radioactive decay. As we follow the path of evolution in reverse, we learn the science behind it. I read the updated 2016 version coauthored with Yan Wang. It reflects recent discoveries such as those of the Denisovans, whose story takes the place of the Neanderthals in the earlier version. Improvements in DNA extraction and sequencing enabled scientists in 2009 to derive the entire genome of a Denisovian from a 40,000 year old fingertip. There are many other revisions and corrections to the first edition published in 2006. In another update convergent replaces related development to explain the origin of many flightless birds such as the Dodo. Genetic studies now show they are descended from pigeons that became isolated on remote islands where they thrived growing big and losing their wings. Our understanding of the tree of life is always changing. Below are other samples of Dawkins\u2019 discussions that caught my attention. Dawkins presents evolution as a flow of groups of individuals. Species arise when intermediate creatures become extinct. But as evolution occurs there are no distinct lines. A variety of archaic Homo sapiens blurred the dividing line between Homo erectus and modern Homo sapiens. Classification can be arbitrary and is often contested. New genes work their way through the group and if the group is isolated from other groups eventually it becomes distinct. This all takes time. If closely related groups come in contact with each other there is hybridization. Modern humans apparently interbred with Neanderthals 45000 years ago even though the two lines had separated 500,000 years before that. Similarly modern humans interbred with Denisovans. Dawkins offers perspective citing the ring species. He points to California salamanders in mountains that form a circle around the Central Valley. At the southern end two distinct populations won\u2019t interbreed, but each population interbreeds with its neighbors in the other direction. This interbreeding continues uninterrupted all around the mountains coming back to the neighbors that won\u2019t interbreed. There is an unbroken chain between the two. Are they separate species? Similarly gulls that won\u2019t interbreed in Britain interbreed with their neighbors to the east and west forming a continuous chain around the world ending with each other. Like the salamanders, the gulls are connected to each other through the unbroken chain until at the ends the differences seem to have become too great. Dawkins uses the ring species as an example of what happens with all species through time. There is a similar uninterrupted chain from us to our australopithecine ancestors and to the beginning of life. Only the demise of intermediaries lets us define species. Was the most recent common ancestor, Concester, of humans and chimpanzees bipedal? Some scientists believe this is the case. The chimpanzee may have reverted to knuckle walking. What drove bipedalism in the first place? Ability to see over tall grass, ability to carry food back to a mate, ability to squat feed for long periods when snails and worms were more abundant than fruit, or as Dawkins thinks, sexual selection? Even back then females may have liked their mates to stand tall. They and/or their males may also have preferred less body hair. No other ape lost its hair so sexual selection as opposed to natural selection seems reasonable. In most animals females select their mates, but Darwin thought that men selected women for less body hair. Whichever way, both sexes would be affected. A mate with a bigger brain may also have curried favor. Dawson educates us on plate tectonics and its evolutionary effects. The formation and breakup of Pangea into Laurasia and Gondwana had significant implications for the diversity of life. Subsequent breakups isolating Madagascar and Australia explain their unique animals. We get the Platypus Tale. Is the platypus primitive? It had as much time to evolve as we have. It lays eggs and has a bill but what a bill \u2013 supersensitive to movement and electric field disturbances. What other mammal can locate its prey without listening, seeing or touching it? Dawkins explores the nerve connections between bill and brain and speculates that the platypus visualizes the feedback from its bill just as we do the feedback from our eyes. Dawkins\u2019 tale of the sea squirt shows the tongue and cheek that is sprinkled through his writing. This amazing creature starts out with a notochord and nervous system making it a chordate, a member of our phylum. It looks like a tadpole as a juvenile swimming around then in its adult stage, it lands head first on a rock and permanently attaches itself. It digests its nerve system, notochord and other parts and turns into a big bag that filters the plankton from seawater. Dawkins digresses \u201dA second Aldous Huxley might project fictional human longevity to the point where some super-Methuselah finally settles down on his head and metamorphoses into a giant sea squirt, fastened permanently to the sofa in front of a television.\u201d Perhaps today we should substitute tablet or phone for TV. In either case, once settled, Dawkins notes that it \u201ceats its brain, like an associate professor getting tenure.\u201d We are entertained by the stories of many other bizarre creatures, behaviors and relationships. Who would, aside from a zoologist, think of the echinoderm (starfish, sea cucumber, etc.) as sharing the most recent common ancestor we have with another phylum? The starfish\u2019s radial design means it has no front or back, left or right. It may lead with any of its five legs. Its nerve cord forms a circle. Its anus is on top and mouth on bottom. Yet the molecular biologists say its genes show it evolved from a bilateral animal just like us. What about the bdelloid rotifers? All of these tiny aquatic animals are female. There is no need for males, no shared gene pool. Each rotifer reproduces a new organism with two sets of chromosomes as do animals that reproduce sexually. Thus over the millennia as mutations accumulate the genes will become even more diverse than those in a shared pool. Millions of years of asexual reproduction have resulted in more than 450 species of these unique creatures. Then there are the animals that keep their males in place \u2013 literally. Some trigger fish females carry their diminutive males on their sides for use when and as needed. Some scale insect females carry their males as mere specs on their legs. Dawkins explores the beginning of life. He looks at RNA World theory which holds that life started with RNA as both a replicator and an enzyme, in essence a self-replicating catalyst. He points to experiments that show segments of RNA taken from viruses can replicate and evolve in water. He discusses the idea of life forming in rocks, going even further afield than theories about life starting around hydrothermal vents. He point out that cracks in rocks are teeming with bacteria that live off of chemical processes without benefit of the sun. Finally he ponders the different ways life could have evolved. If we went back to the beginning and started all over again what would life be like today? What aspects have been convergent and which contingent. Many features evolved more than once, for example eyes, echolocation, and flight. Others such as our big brains and use of language evolved only once. Perhaps most significant is the incorporation of bacteria into archaea forming mitochondria which made life for us eukaryotes possible. Nick Lane argues in his book Power, Sex, Suicide that this event would be unlikely to ever be repeated. The Ancestor\u2019s Tale is a tour de force, a comprehensive view of evolutionary biology full of fascinating details about diverse life forms. It is packed with the latest scientific theories. Above all it demonstrates the interconnectedness of all life. This clearly is heartfelt by Dawkins. His awe and enthusiasm for his subject is infectious. Reading it was an experience. After 700 pages, I was sorry it was over. For those with a serious interest I can\u2019t recommend it highly enough. ...more This is my favorite book in the whole world. Someday it may be eclipsed by something else but for now it's this. What I love most about this book is the number of times I found myself thinking, \"Wow, I had no idea\". It makes perfect sense when you think it out, but the entire premise of the book, that every living thing on earth, from human being to plant to bacteria, shares a common ancestor, that actually existed at a point sufficiently far enough in the past. The book consists of a \"pilgrimag This is my favorite book in the whole world. Someday it may be eclipsed by something else but for now it's this. What I love most about this book is the number of times I found myself thinking, \"Wow, I had no idea\". It makes perfect sense when you think it out, but the entire premise of the book, that every living thing on earth, from human being to plant to bacteria, shares a common ancestor, that actually existed at a point sufficiently far enough in the past. The book consists of a \"pilgrimage\" to that ancestor modeled loosely after \"The Canterbury Tales\". ...more I love this book. It's not the kind of thing I usually read, because I prefer fiction to non-fiction by far, at least when I have a choice about it. And I really, really loathe Dawkins' The God Delusion, largely because of the tone he takes toward people who are religious believers. But The Ancestor's Tale is mostly just science, and it's written in an accessible, almost conversational way. It actually has literary ancestors (ha), in the form of The Canterbury Tales, which Dawkins chose as his f I love this book. It's not the kind of thing I usually read, because I prefer fiction to non-fiction by far, at least when I have a choice about it. And I really, really loathe Dawkins' The God Delusion, largely because of the tone he takes toward people who are religious believers. But The Ancestor's Tale is mostly just science, and it's written in an accessible, almost conversational way. It actually has literary ancestors (ha), in the form of The Canterbury Tales, which Dawkins chose as his format to tell the tale of a pilgrimage through history to find our ancestors. He does slip in some references to his own beliefs, but here they aren't too offensive or intrusive. When I say 'accessible', I don't mean 'dumbed down'. The science and maths and the theory and the sheer detail is here. I read a couple of reviews that people found it boring once it got to a certain point because there's 'too much detail' about things like bacteria. Which I think is more of a 'your mileage may vary' attitude than anything -- I think Dawkins gave the space to the bacteria that they deserve, all things considered. There's a lot of speculation in here, too -- but so much of science is speculation. Dawkins is fairly clear about when he can and can't 'prove' things, and explains the methods by which they can be proved if they can. You don't have to have a huge knowledge of science or maths to understand -- some, and an interest in it, I suppose, but not so very very much. ...more I've been a fan of Dawkins for a while solely based on interviews, but this is the first of his books I've actually read. It works its way backwards through the evolutionary tree, detailing how all living things are related - how a stranger on the street, your dog, your house plant, bacteria and you are all distant cousins. It's a fascinating read, technical enough if you're interested, but not so much so that it's threatening to the non-science minded. It's broken into various \"tales\" - \"The Ho I've been a fan of Dawkins for a while solely based on interviews, but this is the first of his books I've actually read. It works its way backwards through the evolutionary tree, detailing how all living things are related - how a stranger on the street, your dog, your house plant, bacteria and you are all distant cousins. It's a fascinating read, technical enough if you're interested, but not so much so that it's threatening to the non-science minded. It's broken into various \"tales\" - \"The Howler Monkey's Tale\", \"The Hippo's Tale\", \"The Blind Cave Fish's Tale\" - a la Chaucer - which makes the size of the book a bit less daunting. Best of all, it's excellent ammunition for the next time you find yourself in a debate with someone arguing for \"intelligent design.\" ...more The Ancestor's Tale is an incredible find! With a form based loosely on Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, Dawkins marches back in time to each of humankind's ancestors. Witty, brilliant and engaging, you will learn a great deal about evolutionary biology, and a million fun and intriguing facts. Whether you agree to disagree with the facts establishing evolution as a law of science, this book is worth your time. Plus, it is so dense and rich, you will feel proud to put it on your shelf after you have f The Ancestor's Tale is an incredible find! With a form based loosely on Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, Dawkins marches back in time to each of humankind's ancestors. Witty, brilliant and engaging, you will learn a great deal about evolutionary biology, and a million fun and intriguing facts. Whether you agree to disagree with the facts establishing evolution as a law of science, this book is worth your time. Plus, it is so dense and rich, you will feel proud to put it on your shelf after you have finished it!! ...more Dawkins' magnum opus. Non-Fiction. 4 billion years of evolution, practically in real time. To avoid any \"human-centrism,\" Dawkins -- famous for his outspoken stance against creationism -- does this backwards and models the journey on Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. Scared yet? Well, it's not in rhyme or Old English, but Dawkins does tend toward lofty language and wild, rambling digressions. It bugged me at first, but over the course of this SIX HUNDRED PAGE BOOK, I got used to it and even grew to appreciate Dawkins and h Non-Fiction. 4 billion years of evolution, practically in real time. To avoid any \"human-centrism,\" Dawkins -- famous for his outspoken stance against creationism -- does this backwards and models the journey on Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. Scared yet? Well, it's not in rhyme or Old English, but Dawkins does tend toward lofty language and wild, rambling digressions. It bugged me at first, but over the course of this SIX HUNDRED PAGE BOOK, I got used to it and even grew to appreciate Dawkins and his sly humor. He actually made me laugh out loud a couple times. The pilgrimage conceit holds up: we travel backwards in time to meet a series of common ancestors, starting with concestor 1 (for \"common ancestor\"), where mankind splits from the chimpanzees, and ending with concestor 39, the first life on Earth. At each stop he describes what that ancestor may have looked like, where it lived, and how long ago. The Chaucer conceit never got off the ground. Most tales, like \"The Armadillo's Tale,\" don't tell you anything about the animal the tale's dedicated to. There are a few exceptions to this, though, like \"The Beaver's Tale\" or \"The Brine Shrimp's Tale.\" Those actually address the qualities of the animal in question, and were some of my favorites because of it. One of the best things about this book is that Dawkins freely admits -- early and often -- that a lot of what he's talking about is based on limited data and/or guesswork and may be wrong. He goes out of his way to offer alternate theories and differing opinions, though he always singles out the position he finds most likely. I love it when scientists admit they don't know things, and Dawkins has no problem with that. He can sound arrogant and in love with his own voice (the number of times he quotes himself and his previous books!!!), but at heart I think he really loves the subject and wants to share it with people. It's a long, and sometimes difficult, book to read. It gets into genetics, math, biology, taxonomy, chemistry, pretty much everything, and at times the explanations get messy or too technical. I liked the biology parts best -- the different ways organisms evolve and why, and there was plenty of that to keep me interested. It's a lot of information, though still a very basic look at the diversity of life. I started out reading it like homework -- 10-20 pages a day -- but after I got the hang of it, I was reading 30 and 40 pages without breaking a sweat. Did I enjoy it? I think so? I definitely know a little bit about a LOT of things now, and it made me want to read more about evolution. Three stars for the book and the information it provides, and FIVE stars for me for making it through. ...more It's a shame that some people get caught up in Mr. Dawkins as a supposed spokesman for Atheism because first and foremost, he's a scientist, and this book is about the science behind life on Earth. In order to better explain evolutionary science, Dawkins metaphorically borrows Chaucer's journey to Canterbury to travel back in time. We start in the present day, and then examine our common ancestors from mammals, to birds, reptiles, etc... all the way back to bacteria and how life itself may have It's a shame that some people get caught up in Mr. Dawkins as a supposed spokesman for Atheism because first and foremost, he's a scientist, and this book is about the science behind life on Earth. In order to better explain evolutionary science, Dawkins metaphorically borrows Chaucer's journey to Canterbury to travel back in time. We start in the present day, and then examine our common ancestors from mammals, to birds, reptiles, etc... all the way back to bacteria and how life itself may have come to be. It's a compelling argument. The book is full of ideas to contemplate. For example, in \"The Peacock's Tale\" chapter, he addresses human bare skin and why. \"Humans don't just have bare skin on their rumps like monkeys. They have bare skin all over, except on the top of the head, under the arms and in the pubic region. When we get ectoparasites such as lice, they are often confined to these very regions. Lice need hair, and Pagel and Bodmer's first suggestion is that the benefit of losing our body hair was that it reduced the real estate available to lice. Two questions arise. Why, if losing hair is such a good idea, have other mammals who also suffer from ectoparasites kept theirs?\" (And why is it still retained on our heads, etc...?) I won't give away the answers, but the analysis is thoughtful and persuasive. This is not a beach read. It demands your attention and concentration in order to consider the themes presented. I thought the time invested in the book was time well spent. 5 stars. ...more Great History of evolution! My favorite of Dawkins' books, because it processes every little peice of information, leaving no rock unturned. Being 700 or so pages it took me a while to finish it, but my hours were not wasted. It goes through every known evolutionary split from us now, to billions of years ago with some of the first life on earth. It covers the full spread of biological diversity and the different inventions of nature, like how a Platypus uses electromagnetic waves to detect smal Great History of evolution! My favorite of Dawkins' books, because it processes every little peice of information, leaving no rock unturned. Being 700 or so pages it took me a while to finish it, but my hours were not wasted. It goes through every known evolutionary split from us now, to billions of years ago with some of the first life on earth. It covers the full spread of biological diversity and the different inventions of nature, like how a Platypus uses electromagnetic waves to detect small animals, or how much brain power the nose of a mole uses, with it's powerful sense of smell and touch. It covers sensitive concepts like race, gender, religion, and politics. Not claiming that science has power over all those things, but stating that there are biological advantages and disadvantages to things like sexual dimorphism,race, arms races, and religion. For those who turn down this book due to a motivation from their religion, I will let you know now this is not a religion bashing book. If your looking for that kind of thing this isn't it, it simply states the long history of life as we know it, while in the sidelines having small lessons about carbon dating, DNA, and sexual and asexual reproduction. This is a must read for anyone who pursues knowledge in the field of biology and who has ever pondered on the order in which life has diversified, although being so incredibly long I will suggest that you don't start reading until you have a lot of spare time, as it is best not to space out your reads as I did, so that you can retain more of the information. ...more Richard Dawkins is the best writer on the topic of evolution that I have encountered. He is able to explain concepts in such a way as to make them easily understandable. All of the books that I have read by Dawkins have been very informative and entertaining as well. The Ancestor's Tale is a cleverly structured book in which Dawkins takes the reader on a journey chronologically back in time through our evolutionary history. Each successive chapter is the next branch of our evolutionary tree wher Richard Dawkins is the best writer on the topic of evolution that I have encountered. He is able to explain concepts in such a way as to make them easily understandable. All of the books that I have read by Dawkins have been very informative and entertaining as well. The Ancestor's Tale is a cleverly structured book in which Dawkins takes the reader on a journey chronologically back in time through our evolutionary history. Each successive chapter is the next branch of our evolutionary tree where Homo sapiens merges with our next most recent kin. The book cleverly mimics Chaucer's Canterbury Tales wherein each new member of the group tells a story. In The Ancestor's Tale , each of these \"tales\" is told by one of the species that we are joining with in the current branch. The story is always about some aspect of evolution that is pertinent in some way to the species telling the tale. The Ancestor's Tale is the best book that I have read on evolution up to this point and I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in this subject. ...more After Cosmos and The Selfish Gene , this is the only book that has simply blown my mind. What a brilliant work! Dawkins guides us along on the greatest pilgrimage ever to the dawn of evolution in a style reminiscent of The Canterbury Tales . Through different tales told by organisms we rendezvous along the way, he manages to introduce a plethora of biological wonders, ethical considerations, scientific thinking and philosophy. A must, must read for everyone- especially those with a passion for nat After Cosmos and The Selfish Gene , this is the only book that has simply blown my mind. What a brilliant work! Dawkins guides us along on the greatest pilgrimage ever to the dawn of evolution in a style reminiscent of The Canterbury Tales . Through different tales told by organisms we rendezvous along the way, he manages to introduce a plethora of biological wonders, ethical considerations, scientific thinking and philosophy. A must, must read for everyone- especially those with a passion for nature and life sciences. ...more 6-stars [NOTE: I like to provide a 6-star rating to a book when it has been able to keep me in a state of amazement almost continuously for at least 80% of its content.] A terrific book on evolution from the vast spectrum of creatures on this planet. Truly, a lot of information has been provided. Can be a bit heavy to people who may not be from a scientific academic background. Almost every topic that I read in the book kept me in a state of awe while I learnt new things. The book is a must-read f 6-stars [NOTE: I like to provide a 6-star rating to a book when it has been able to keep me in a state of amazement almost continuously for at least 80% of its content.] A terrific book on evolution from the vast spectrum of creatures on this planet. Truly, a lot of information has been provided. Can be a bit heavy to people who may not be from a scientific academic background. Almost every topic that I read in the book kept me in a state of awe while I learnt new things. The book is a must-read for anyone who wishes to get mesmerized by stuff that exists on Planet Earth itself! :) HEAVILY RECOMMENDED!! ...more This is the best science book I read in 2006. The structure (moving backwards thru the history of life) is unique, and works for the most part. (Ok, it got a little boring when it lingered on things like nematode worms and the like near the end) The only thing I wish the book had...? Illustrations! I had to keep my laptop by my side and constantly Google the names of organisms i'd never heard of to see what they look like. Dawkins is a seductive writer... I would recommend always reading somethin This is the best science book I read in 2006. The structure (moving backwards thru the history of life) is unique, and works for the most part. (Ok, it got a little boring when it lingered on things like nematode worms and the like near the end) The only thing I wish the book had...? Illustrations! I had to keep my laptop by my side and constantly Google the names of organisms i'd never heard of to see what they look like. Dawkins is a seductive writer... I would recommend always reading something by one of his critics after you read his books, just to be aware that not everyone agrees with all of Dawkins' lines of reasoning. ...more Very well-written, extremely eloquent, not particularly abstruse. Incredibly informative, dense but not impenetrably so. Slightly cheapened by a few brief but unnecessary political comments. Jabs at religion are to be expected with a Dawkins book, but unless directly addressing creationist claims, also unnecessary. Particularly poignant passages regarding uncertainties of molecular dating issues. Historical perspective on how our understandings of various organisms & their phylogenies are th Very well-written, extremely eloquent, not particularly abstruse. Incredibly informative, dense but not impenetrably so. Slightly cheapened by a few brief but unnecessary political comments. Jabs at religion are to be expected with a Dawkins book, but unless directly addressing creationist claims, also unnecessary. Particularly poignant passages regarding uncertainties of molecular dating issues. Historical perspective on how our understandings of various organisms & their phylogenies are the masterstroke - neither too in-depth nor superficial. ...more A masterful work, and one that stands out even among Dawkins' other popular works. It takes the form of a long pilgrimage backwards through time towards the ancient Canterbury of life's origin on Earth. The several interweaving tales of our ancestor (or cousin) species -- for instance, the fascinating evolution of the whale -- provides a fresh, breathing narrative to what could have been a very dry book. I finish reading this book with a new appreciation for all creatures on this Earth and a fee A masterful work, and one that stands out even among Dawkins' other popular works. It takes the form of a long pilgrimage backwards through time towards the ancient Canterbury of life's origin on Earth. The several interweaving tales of our ancestor (or cousin) species -- for instance, the fascinating evolution of the whale -- provides a fresh, breathing narrative to what could have been a very dry book. I finish reading this book with a new appreciation for all creatures on this Earth and a feeling as though we're all part of the same family, which indeed we are. ...more A thorough and fascinating pilgrimage through life on earth. Dawkins again is able to take the complex and sometimes confusing aspects of scientific literature and present it for any reader, whether a hardened biologist or high school student. If evolutionary biology is your interest, this is a must read. An interesting method for taking a journey through time and evolution. Some amazing tales highlight the many rendezvous points in our evolutionary history, all backed with rich details and clear analysis. I'll mark this as one to be re-read in the future. Political economy basics are often explained with the help of an analogy: we imagine a beach in summer with people sun-bathing; for the sake of simplicity, we assume that the beach is one-dimensional- a straight line running from left to right- and that the people are distributed approximately equidistant from each other. An enterprising ice-cream vendor comes along with his cart and sets up shop - where should he position himself if he desires to maximize his sales? Clearly, anywhere; for as lon Political economy basics are often explained with the help of an analogy: we imagine a beach in summer with people sun-bathing; for the sake of simplicity, we assume that the beach is one-dimensional- a straight line running from left to right- and that the people are distributed approximately equidistant from each other. An enterprising ice-cream vendor comes along with his cart and sets up shop - where should he position himself if he desires to maximize his sales? Clearly, anywhere; for as long as he has a monopoly, people will walk from all over the beach to buy his product. For purposes of illustration, we imagine him settling somewhere near the extreme right of the beach. Now, should a second vendor selling ice-cream come onto the scene, and discover that people will buy ice-cream from the vendor closest to them, where must she position herself? Obviously she should set shop adjacent to the first vendor, but slightly to his left; she can then maximize her sales by cornering the bulk of the market. The loss of sales then forces the first vendor to move his cart to the left of vendor two and the jostling continues; it is straightforward to see that in a few iterations, both vendors end up next to each other close to the center of the beach in their bid to maximize their sales. The fictitious beach, of course represents a political issue, the bathers are the voters and the vendors the political parties; the goal is to maximize votes instead of sales (1). The first case represents a dictatorship, the second the two-party democracy; in the latter, over time, both parties grow to resemble each other as they take up near-identical stances on most issues, often differing only in semantics. Unless, that is, the two parties vary in their assessment of how voter preferences are distributed on an issue - if one party believes they are clumped more to the left, while the other believes the majority leans to the right, sharp divisions can occur, as is the case here in Australia where our (effectively) two-party system in federal politics is now polarized over a proposed carbon ETS. Exit political economy, enter evolutionary biology; for this is where the analogy ends. Whereas ice-cream vendors and political parties are prepared to move to maximize sales and votes on the basis of their assumptions about the distribution of bodies and voters, creationists and evolutionists are camped firmly on either end of the belief scale; both sides preach only to their respective choirs, and it is not clear why. The distribution of people with regards to their belief varies, but it is safe to say that most are either mildly agnostic or mild believers; and yet, it is the strong views that color the debate and polarize opinions - for the creationists the evolutionists shall join Darwin in hell and pay for their lack of faith, and for the evolutionists, creationism is good for a laugh , or two , but for little else. Dawkins appears to be at the forefront of the rather acrimonious debate and draws more than his fair share of the creationists' ire (2). Which is a shame, really, for just as Chomsky's political writings have the unfortunate consequence of discounting - or at least distracting from - his brilliant work as a linguist, so too do Dawkins' views on God and religion prevent many from acknowledging his stellar contribution to our understanding of nature, and of our place in it. It may seem surprising that there even is a debate, in light of all the evidence, but the problem is that in a game-theoretic sense, religion 'plays' first, during the early formative years of children and thus enjoys a distinctive first-mover advantage, because science, to which the child is exposed only in school, plays a late second; nor do the oft-dull and dreary textbook treatments of science help advance its cause. This is precisely where leading scientific intellectuals such as Dawkins have so much to offer, and which he does admirably here, as always. To the premise of the book then: we may not all have descendants, but we all have an unbroken line of ancestors - each of whom survived long enough to reach child-bearing age and pass on their genes - fighting off predators, battling disease and natural disasters in the process; which is a fascinating thought, made even more so to consider that all that adventure does not lie merely in the human part of our evolutionary history. The journey Dawkins undertakes in this book then, is to track our shared ancestry - not merely that of every human being, but that of every single living creature - all the way back to four billion years to build a family tree that extends over hundreds of millions of great-grandparents. And yet by no means is this a Handbuch of sorts on speciation , rather, it is a delightful elucidation on the workings of evolution, a 'Who do you think you are?' on a scale that has absolutely no parallel: This is the book of life. (1) Establishing themselves close to the median of the voter preferences on just one axis does not of itself translate into votes- for that the voter preference on each issue and the weight of importance attached to it by the voter needs to be aggregated. (2) This polarization manifests itself in unexpected ways; in a recent ABC interview of Dawkins by Andrew Denton, for instance. Mindful, perhaps, of the consequences of appearing empathetic to his subject's views and alienating the conservatives among his viewers, the otherwise immensely capable Denton was unable to set a consistent tone for the program by committing himself to either a friendly or hostile line of questioning, which made for some extremely uneasy viewing. ...more Geneticists tell us that every single person on Earth is at the least 50th cousins with every other person on Earth. On a broader scale two closely related species can be considered cousins; and it is this broad sense of the word \"cousin\" I'd like to make use of below. Throughout his tales Dawkins exposes the attempts to coexist between cousins in an ever changing habitat. As it turns out, these involuntary attempts sometimes succeed, resulting in complex symbiotic relationships, and sometimes th Geneticists tell us that every single person on Earth is at the least 50th cousins with every other person on Earth. On a broader scale two closely related species can be considered cousins; and it is this broad sense of the word \"cousin\" I'd like to make use of below. Throughout his tales Dawkins exposes the attempts to coexist between cousins in an ever changing habitat. As it turns out, these involuntary attempts sometimes succeed, resulting in complex symbiotic relationships, and sometimes they end up taking whole species out of existence. But they are always an evolutionary arms race for survival. As our pilgrimage advances back in time, we meet more and more cousins converging at each rendezvous point. I call it \"our\" pilgrimage although, as Dawkins puts it, this journey could have started from the point of view of any other existing species. At Rendezvous Point 1 we, human pilgrims, join our evolutionary cousins, chimpanzees and bonobos. We shall later meet other mammals, followed by the other vertebrates, invertebrates, all the way back to meeting our chlorophyll dependent cousins, the plants. Although the journey back in time will have many stops with unfamiliar Latin sounding names, Dawkins does a great job of always keeping you updated and clear about where you are along the pilgrimage -- you know... just in case you don't have a doctorate in zoology. At each rendezvous point, the author recounts interesting tales concerning the cousin animals which are about to join the band of pilgrims. Every newly recruited species, genus or family has its own peculiar features, often ones that are relevant to our human anatomy or otherwise interesting for humans. After a total of 40 Rendezvous Points our pilgrimage culminates with the eubacteria, the ancestor of all surviving organisms. \"The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Life\" is a history of life, a history of life going backwards in the form of an epic pilgrimage. Along the way, any of our cousin pilgrims can tell a tale. And it's those tales that form the main substance of the book. ...more Finally!! I think I spent more time with this book than any other in recent years...a solid six weeks. That's not to say it was boring or hard to get through, quite the opposite. I enjoyed slowly savoring the massive amount of information up for offer in this tome. Richard Dawkins' is a prolific author, and it took me a while to decide which of his books to read first. This one has been sitting on my shelf for about a year, and I finally picked it up to read concurrently with a Genetics and Evolu Finally!! I think I spent more time with this book than any other in recent years...a solid six weeks. That's not to say it was boring or hard to get through, quite the opposite. I enjoyed slowly savoring the massive amount of information up for offer in this tome. Richard Dawkins' is a prolific author, and it took me a while to decide which of his books to read first. This one has been sitting on my shelf for about a year, and I finally picked it up to read concurrently with a Genetics and Evolution class that I am taking via Coursera. It was a splendid idea. Dawkins tends to go on and on about the craziness of religion, but thankfully that was mostly absent in this book. I like to focus on the topic at hand, without the jests and jeers at those with a different view. And the topic at hand in The Ancestor's Tale is an over-arching tale of evolution on this planet, going backwards in time (from a human perspective), all the way back to the origin of life. More than anything, Dawkin's vast knowledge of zoology shines, and I learned more than I ever thought I could in one month about the variety of life on this planet, and how they have evolved to be so darn interesting. His modeling of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales lends itself very well to the subject, and was a great method of (non-fiction) storytelling. As it was written ten years previously, one thought must accompany the reader. Evolutionary biology, genetics, molecular studies....these fields are constantly changing, with on-going innovations and new developments. Therefore, you must read a book like this with an eye to the present, and new research. For example, since Ancestor's Tale was published, a complete Neandertal genome was sequenced, and a few of Dawkins' statements are somewhat out-dated and not supported by recent findings. The same holds true for the molecular clock, and calculating the rendezvous points with various ancestors. I would love to see an updated edition of The Ancestor's Tale published at some point. ...more<---C>Richard Dawkins</---C><+++>The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution</+++>", "Title": "The Ancestor's Tale: A Pilgrimage to the Dawn of Evolution"},
