{"Comments": "Let me start off by saying, \"What a book!\" There is something inside this novel for everyone under the sun! Dogs***Saved My Life ISN'T fiction. It's a series of actual events as the author remembers it, and written in the point of view of a Brit's sense of humor. When you least expect it, you find that the next sentence you read will cause you combust with ear-splitting laughter. I also found myself sharing some of the stories in this novel with family,<---M> friends and coworkers</---M>, but I couldn't recit Let me start off by saying, \"What a book!\" There is something inside this novel for everyone under the sun! Dogs***Saved My Life ISN'T fiction. It's a series of actual events as the author remembers it, and written in the point of view of a Brit's sense of humor. When you least expect it, you find that the next sentence you read will cause you combust with ear-splitting laughter. I also found myself sharing some of the stories in this novel with family, friends and coworkers, but I couldn't recite it like Wiggins did, so I'm sure I sounded like someone who just left a comedy show, trying to repeat the comic's jokes. I'm sure my recitals didn't do any justice for the novel, but at least I followed it up with, \"Just buy the book!\" Although you laugh a lot, there are other elements to be enjoyed. The Miner, for me, was the most heart-gripping chapter. I'm a huge fan of Catherine Cookson. She wrote extensively about this subject with characters I still remember reading about in my youth. Reading this chapter brought it all back, as well as tears in my eyes. It was endearing and humbling to read, and very true. Regardless of one's nationality, we as a group of people have suffered something in our history that was heart-wrenching to remember. I suggest you buy the book on this chapter alone, as everyone should read it. Humorous rants, by far, is the newest genre to hit the book industry, and opening one of its tales is like having personal time with Sarah Silverman. Dogs*** Saved My Life is the sort of novel you read after a hard day's work! You come home restless and tired, and need some quiet time to wind down. I would even go so far as to say this book is therapeutic. All doctors should prescribe in place of Zanax and Zoloft, and the good thing is there are no side effects, unless you suffer from a weak bladder. If you do, be ware! Please allow me to give you an example. While reading the chapter Same-Sex Marriage, I laughed so hard that had my bladder been weak, I would have had an embarrassing moment. I don't suffer from a weak bladder, but I do suffer from asthma. Wiggins had me cackling like someone with fits, falling from a chair, and although I was reaching for my inhaler, I couldn't stop reading. Dear Sue! Sue is Wiggin's wife, and he mentions her often. I can only imagine what this woman's life is like being married to such a man. I mean, this book talked about everything under the sun, and when I say everything, I mean everything. Regardless of where you live in the world, you become familiar with Wiggin's life tale, as the issues and events he tells us about has happened to all of us at some point. Some of my favorite 'cackling' moments are the meeting with the board at work (priceless!), wax is whack (you won't laugh without shedding some tears on this part), my almost first time (classic!), wine & spirits (way too funny and I'm certain we all have had a moment like this), what kind of granddad will Wiggins be (was Sue right? LMFAO!). There are so many areas of this book that gives you a good chuckle! There are also areas that will make you think and ponder, some to the point that you will purse your lips tightly and give Wiggins a firm nod for taking the subject on. As an avid reader of fiction, I thought it would be hard to review this book. In the end, I realized that this novel could almost be an autobiography. Instead of giving you every boring facet of his life as others might do, because they believe their entire life is fascinating, Wiggins perfected the novel by bringing out only the humorous times, as well as the issues he feels strongly about. After reading this book from cover to cover, there are areas that will stay with you always, and when you reach the end, you feel as if you know a man across the water by the name of <---A>Karl Wiggins</---A>, his wife Sue and their son Kai. They will feel like friends old and new to you, and thinking of them will make you smile. For fiction buffs, if you read this book and wonder what you can learn from it, I'll tell you. You learn to view serious subjects from someone else's point of view. You learn that humorous rant novels can be therapeutic. You will learn if you, yourself, have a weak bladder (go ahead and take this challenge.<---F> I dare you!)</---F>. You learn that dogs*** truly did save Wiggins' life (very touching!). And last but not least, you learn that sometimes laughter will spring out of you, regardless of the subject matter. I have to admit, I'm wondering if the alter in the backyard still exists or if Sue had it torn down. I can't express how HARD I laughed at Wiggins in this chapter. I loved this book. Every page. I'm sure you will, too. Especially if you have any kind of sense of humor. ...more If I were to go travelling this is the book I would take with me. Or any comedy book by Karl Wiggins, like 'Grit', or 'Calico Jack', or 'Shit My History Teacher Did Not Tell Me' because his brand of humour appeals to me. He has superb comic timing. Like most writers in the comic fiction/anecdote genre, Karl has an acute observation of people and their foibles. His books would banish the tedium of waiting at any transit point, and have me laughing on a journey so much the other passengers would b If I were to go travelling this is the book I would take with me. Or any comedy book by Karl Wiggins, like 'Grit', or 'Calico Jack', or 'Shit My History Teacher Did Not Tell Me' because his brand of humour appeals to me. He has superb comic timing. Like most writers in the comic fiction/anecdote genre, Karl has an acute observation of people and their foibles. His books would banish the tedium of waiting at any transit point, and have me laughing on a journey so much the other passengers would be curious as to what I was reading. I love Tom Sharpe\u2019s books. Karl\u2019s humour is different and equally funny. For example, reading this book I laughed at his tales of the time when he was a waiter, and of his trials at his workplace. Similar stories told by other writers might be amusing but not have me laughing aloud. Karl\u2019s talent lies in the way he narrates his anecdotes; he crafts his words to convey humour in a manner that equals the comic timing of Tom Sharpe. My views will not be shared by everyone \u2013 Karl polarises opinion in the \u2018love him or hate him\u2019 style. However, to quote from this book, 'I write to entertain, but that's not who I am'. The same can be said of any comedian - it's an art they use to entertain, one which Karl is good at and in which he deserves every success. If you already know and love his books this one is a must-have. If you haven\u2019t read any of his books before, you\u2019re in for a treat! ...more Another class production from Author Karl Wiggins. His writing may be considered an acquired taste, but it\u2019s certainly a nectar I enjoy. This is the third book of his that I have read, and this one continues with more stories from a Man\u2019s man point of view. And with that POV comes great humor and lots of laughs. The stories in \u201c<+++>Dogshit Saved My Life</+++>\u201d are somewhat random. It\u2019s about everyday life things which is often far funnier than anything that can be made up. I especially enjoyed his stories Another class production from Author Karl Wiggins. His writing may be considered an acquired taste, but it\u2019s certainly a nectar I enjoy. This is the third book of his that I have read, and this one continues with more stories from a Man\u2019s man point of view. And with that POV comes great humor and lots of laughs. The stories in \u201c<+++>Dogshit Saved My Life</+++>\u201d are somewhat random. It\u2019s about everyday life things which is often far funnier than anything that can be made up. I especially enjoyed his stories from within the work place which is a taste of a real English environment. I rate this book 5 stars because I enjoy his humor, but it\u2019s safe to say this isn\u2019t the kind of book for everyone. If you\u2019re sensitive or a crusader for political correctness, stay well away. If however you enjoy a good laugh and insight into life\u2019s little quirks, this is a fantastic book that will have you laughing at his unique way of expressing his observations. ...more When it comes to humor, I suppose I'm a bit of a voyeur since I covet a closer peek inside the psyche of those whose wit strikes my fancy. I'd never read anything by Karl Wiggins, and must honestly say I was drawn in by the title. Now, being female (I can prove it in a court of law so don't request photos), you'd think I wouldn't dig some of the machismo writings of Mr Wiggins, and some of my feminist friends might tar and feather me over praising this work, but for the love of Pete, it's damn f When it comes to humor, I suppose I'm a bit of a voyeur since I covet a closer peek inside the psyche of those whose wit strikes my fancy. I'd never read anything by Karl Wiggins, and must honestly say I was drawn in by the title. Now, being female (I can prove it in a court of law so don't request photos), you'd think I wouldn't dig some of the machismo writings of Mr Wiggins, and some of my feminist friends might tar and feather me over praising this work, but for the love of Pete, it's damn funny! This guy is my kind of humor and I can see myself doing some of the idiotic things he does (usually not on purpose), especially sleeping in public, and then falling onto the floor while bumping into innocent bystanders during the tumble. Wiggins' rants cover a variety of subjects, and albeit his point of view is shared by many - he's a brave SOB to put it in writing. Of course I could not be a member of his \"Fat Club\" since I only weigh a few pounds more than my dog, but even this short installment made me laugh. My exposure to the American corporate environment has been quite positive, but I suspect Wiggins isn't embellishing much regarding the British workplace. With everyone around trying to be so politically correct, it's refreshing to read someone who isn't walking on eggshells and worrying about offending. And he will offend, oh yeah. Dogs***t is not for girlie boys, uptight women, or the faint of heart, but definitely for those with a sense of humor and an insatiable appetite for the quirky and somewhat absurd. I think most people who love Ricky Gervais will \"get\" Karl Wiggins. Just look at Karl's author picture and see the mischief beaming back at you from his happy eyes. Now, imagine what life is like for his wife, Sue, who gets exposed to his behavior 24/7. She's likely annihilated the alter in their backyard by now, so let's all hope for her sanity she is somehow receiving daily blessings from the God or Gods of her choice. I was reading this book in the hospital while some serious events were occurring, and during down time I burst out laughing so hard, the nurses came in the room to make sure all was okay with the patient. I hadn't realized my hee-hawing was that loud. But Wiggins also includes writings within DSML that make you ponder the deeper sides of life, which take this read far beyond \"bust a gut laughing\" humor. Calico Jack is next on my TBR list. Go. Read. Wiggins! ...more The good bits about this book are the parts about the building industry, travel around London and things connected to Luton and Watford FC. Outside that the UKIP fallacy- things great in the past - not so great now abound. Also, the Daily Mail casual racism is too much for a gentle person such as me. These urban myths about migrants doing x,y or z are perpetuated - they need to be examined for truthfulness. The swearing and vitriol is not funny - calling people names is pretty childish. If you f The good bits about this book are the parts about the building industry, travel around London and things connected to Luton and Watford FC. Outside that the UKIP fallacy- things great in the past - not so great now abound. Also, the Daily Mail casual racism is too much for a gentle person such as me. These urban myths about migrants doing x,y or z are perpetuated - they need to be examined for truthfulness. The swearing and vitriol is not funny - calling people names is pretty childish. If you find Jeremy Clarkson funny, them this is for you. Mr Wiggins I think I know what you would say to me \" If your so clever how come you haven't written a book? Eh Eh!\". And in this regard I woulsd reply Fair play to you Gunga Din. ...more Many of the articles in this book are exactly what I cut and paste and save to my own commonplace book because they affirm my own opinions of what goes on in the world. I feel like the author took a walk through my mind and cherry picked. I mostly liked it. I truly enjoyed Karl's sense of humor. I found myself laughing quite a bit. He likes to use a LOT of examples when trying to illustrate a point, which got a bit tedious, but all in all I enjoyed the read.<---C>Karl Wiggins</---C>", "Title": "Dogshit Saved My Life"},
