{"Comments": "Being a soulless denizen of the undead was really hard sometimes... Betsy,<---M> now the queen of the vampires</---M>, is struggling to find her way in the vampire world.<---F> Well, not really</---F>. She actually just wants to live her unlife in the same way, with no changes, except of course the drinking blood and being nocturnal thing. Obviously, becoming a vampire meant a few changes, but it didn't change her personality. She's still completely superficial and vain. She just happens to be a soulless undead killing Being a soulless denizen of the undead was really hard sometimes... Betsy, now the queen of the vampires, is struggling to find her way in the vampire world. Well, not really. She actually just wants to live her unlife in the same way, with no changes, except of course the drinking blood and being nocturnal thing. Obviously, becoming a vampire meant a few changes, but it didn't change her personality. She's still completely superficial and vain. She just happens to be a soulless undead killing machine who is superficial and vain. She is also unemployed, but being the amazingly lucky girl that she is, she manages to land her absolute dream job: \"You have a job?\" \"Uh-hum.\" I tried to look modest. Not everybody could land the job of a life-time. \"Selling shoes at Macy's.\" <---C>Tina</---C> wasn't as fawning or floored as I expected. Weird. Yeah, for some reason, the other vampires, who considered her their queen, weren't real impressed with her new shoe-selling gig. Crazy! We all know that shoe salesmen are the celebrities of society. So regal.. Although Betsy should be living the dream with her new job, she unfortunately has to keep doing this Queen deal - which means dealing with the fact that there is a group of vampire hunters out there with pointy sticks. That's going to be a problem. Let's just see where this goes.. This book was as funny and ridiculous as the first one. I love Betsy as a character, even though I would hate her in real life. I would totally stake her. But, reading about a shallow, silly, shoe-obsessed girl who becomes a vampire is very fun. I'll allow it. ...more Betsy Taylor, the new queen of the vampires (<---B>and a most unwilling queen too, might I add</---B>) is back - and in need of a job. (Hey, designer shoes don't grow on trees, you know.) On top of needing to find - and then keep - employment, she also has the small problem of figuring out all the recent vampire murders. Even though many people call this series a romance series, I just can't see the romance. Yes, Sinclair is head over heels in love with Betsy (though he has an odd way of showing it), and yes Betsy Taylor, the new queen of the vampires (and a most unwilling queen too, might I add) is back - and in need of a job. (Hey, designer shoes don't grow on trees, you know.) On top of needing to find - and then keep - employment, she also has the small problem of figuring out all the recent vampire murders. Even though many people call this series a romance series, I just can't see the romance. Yes, Sinclair is head over heels in love with Betsy (though he has an odd way of showing it), and yes Betsy does love Sinclair (though she'd rather die - again - than admit it, even to herself), but really this series just doesn't have enough elements of a romance to truly be a romance series. Heck the main character ends up determined to stay away from the romantic lead by the end of the book! (As Betsy says, \"Nothing good can come of having sex with Eric Sinclair.\") After reading the first book I was annoyed with Betsy but intrigued by the story. Now, after having read the second book, Betsy is growing on me. She's like Buffy, only slightly more vapid, much vainer, and not quite as kick-ass. But still charming. ...more It's really hard to enjoy a book when the main \"love interest\" (and I use that term very loosely) is a total douche bag. I mean come on. I can take a moody male character to a certain extent. But a character that's a complete ass? And no one is willing to call him out on it except for Betsy? BS. I am of course talking about Sinclair. I didn't like him much in the first book but his presence really put me off in this one, to the point where I decided I was going to stop reading midway through the It's really hard to enjoy a book when the main \"love interest\" (and I use that term very loosely) is a total douche bag. I mean come on. I can take a moody male character to a certain extent. But a character that's a complete ass? And no one is willing to call him out on it except for Betsy? BS. I am of course talking about Sinclair. I didn't like him much in the first book but his presence really put me off in this one, to the point where I decided I was going to stop reading midway through the book. Very disappointing. I just can't get over the fact that he would go over to where she works, try to force her to quit her dream job, and then vampire mojo her boss into firing her. That sh*t is not cool. No man should ever be in charge of a woman's life like that and vice versa. To force the person you \"love\" to quite the job they love is ridiculous, especially in the way that he tried. Really the only part of the novel I semi-liked was Betsy. Even though she had some annoying Sinclair-involved moments, she was really quirky and fun to read. Everything else in the novel was a downer. Jessica and Mark, her so-called best friends, were immature and annoying the entire time. Plus they were completely unsupportive of her. If I say I don't like a guy because he's a jerk, I expect my besties to back me up instead of saying how nice and hot he is all the time. Overall, I did not like this book, hence the low rating. Even though I like romance novels, I feel like my standards have changed for them overall. I'm no longer into the brooding mysterious unavailable a**hole types in these kinds of books. I want personality, not \"perfection\" in these characters, so I will be looking elsewhere in the romance department. Rating: 1 out of 5 Stars ...more 5 Stars: I enjoyed this book as much as the first, good reading if you like vampire romance. It was just as funny as the first. I found myself laughing aloud a lot and could not put it down. It was a quick and mindless read for those times you want a light read. My absolute favorite and will read again and again. I strongly recommend! It has outstanding qualities. The characters are wonderful and surprising and multi-dimensional. The writing is luring, engaging, and well-crafted enough to keep m 5 Stars: I enjoyed this book as much as the first, good reading if you like vampire romance. It was just as funny as the first. I found myself laughing aloud a lot and could not put it down. It was a quick and mindless read for those times you want a light read. My absolute favorite and will read again and again. I strongly recommend! It has outstanding qualities. The characters are wonderful and surprising and multi-dimensional. The writing is luring, engaging, and well-crafted enough to keep me interested from cover to cover and beyond. The plot is astonishing with twists and turns weaved into a well thought and planned story. There\u2019s no pretense and romance was well balanced and done entirely correctly with properly distributed amounts of hints, behaviors and incredible, undeniable chemistry. Predictability is at an all-time low. With the exception of series based books that follow the same path but are just as good. Overall, Favorite, must read again, recommend!!! ...more 3.5 Stars I really loved the first book in this series, and although <+++>Undead and Unemployed</+++> didn't have quite the same impact as Undead and Unwed, I still really enjoyed it. <+++>Undead and Unemployed</+++> starts roughly where the first book finished, albeit a couple of months have passed. Betsy is still trying to come to terms with her new status as Vampire Queen and the complete change of lifestyle. She is getting a little frustrated with her new life and wants to put back some sense of normality. So, she 3.5 Stars I really loved the first book in this series, and although Undead and Unemployed didn't have quite the same impact as Undead and Unwed, I still really enjoyed it. Undead and Unemployed starts roughly where the first book finished, albeit a couple of months have passed. Betsy is still trying to come to terms with her new status as Vampire Queen and the complete change of lifestyle. She is getting a little frustrated with her new life and wants to put back some sense of normality. So, she decides the only way to do this is to get a job. Betsy heads out and finds employment at Macy's as a shoe salesperson, which of course she thinks is the best job ever! You see, Betsy loves shoes, so to be surrounded by them is utterly divine - this is her dream job. Luckily her employer is just looking for night time staff which fits in perfectly with the whole vampire thing. Unfortunately, nothing ever runs smoothly and Betsy learns there's a gang who have taken it upon themselves to rid the world of vampires. Of course Betsy doesn't really want to get involved but is dragged into helping by the delicious Eric Sinclair, who she loves hates to positive distraction! Betsy is as witty as ever and I enjoy her snarkasm so much. She's such a sassy character and I love her interactions with those around her, her witty retorts just have me smiling the whole time I'm reading! The supporting characters of her friends, Jess and Marc, are very likeable, especially Jess. The story itself is a good one but not very complicated. There are a few twists and turns but mostly it is easy reading and completely hilarious. I especially enjoyed the scene where Betsy invited the vampire hunters to afternoon tea! Verdict: Undead and Unemployed is a quick but entertaining read. It's light and funny with a great heroine. I will definitely be continuing this series and would recommend it in a heart beat. ...more After reading Undead and Unwed, I thought Sinclair was a hero with jerk tendencies. Now after finishing the second book of the series I'm feeling like Sinclair is filtered through Betsy and he's not as much of a jerk as I first thought. I realize that the reader only sees Sinclair from Betsy's point of view since the whole book is from her perspective, but throughout the whole book I kept feeling like I wasn't getting to know Sinclair at all. The author does a really good job broadcasting Jessic After reading Undead and Unwed, I thought Sinclair was a hero with jerk tendencies. Now after finishing the second book of the series I'm feeling like Sinclair is filtered through Betsy and he's not as much of a jerk as I first thought. I realize that the reader only sees Sinclair from Betsy's point of view since the whole book is from her perspective, but throughout the whole book I kept feeling like I wasn't getting to know Sinclair at all. The author does a really good job broadcasting Jessica's personality along with Betsy's, but Sinclair just seems to get lost along the way. I'm still enjoying the series so far, and don't plan to drop it, but I'm not as enthralled by it as I was the first book. Completely unrelated side note\u2026having a vampire named Eric in a series that\u2019s not the Sookie Stackhose series is a little distracting. Every time someone calls him Eric and not Sinclair, I keep expecting Eric Northman. Is it horrible of me that I\u2019m picturing Alexander Skarsg\u00e5rd as Eric Sinclair? He doesn\u2019t fit the description but that's still who pops into my head while I\u2019m reading. ...more More like 2.5 stars, but again the reading by Wu was excellent. The story was fun, but not even as filling as a Sookie Stackhouse story. Queen Betsy & all the rest of the characters are more caricatures than 'real' people. The world isn't very complex nor all that imaginative. So it was OK & I'm really only giving it 3 stars because Wu does such a great job. Still, I'm on to listen to the next one. I like this series even more after listening to this book! It's truly very funny, well developed & likable characters tossed together with some intriguing mystery and occasional steaminess! Formula is fun indeed! :-) O carte extrem de amuzanta si incitanta ! It's been a couple months since Undead and Unwed. Betsy has still not adjusted to the fact that she is queen of the vampires and that with that title comes responsibilities. Betsy is determined that she will regain some semblance of a life and for her, this means getting a job and paying her own way through life. It should be simple right? Well, it might have been were it not for the fact that someone is killing vampires in St. Paul and as Queen of the Vampires, it's Betsy's responsibility to ke It's been a couple months since Undead and Unwed. Betsy has still not adjusted to the fact that she is queen of the vampires and that with that title comes responsibilities. Betsy is determined that she will regain some semblance of a life and for her, this means getting a job and paying her own way through life. It should be simple right? Well, it might have been were it not for the fact that someone is killing vampires in St. Paul and as Queen of the Vampires, it's Betsy's responsibility to keep her people safe. In case you are wondering, Betsy doesn't get anymore likeable in Undead and Unemployed. Betsy remains extremely vapid, whiny and just plain sarcastic. I don't think I have disliked a character this much since Charlene Harris's Aurora Teagarden and believe me, that's saying something. At this point, I am just going to go ahead and give up on any kind of character development in this series. Yes, I know it's early but Betsy is simply beyond hope at this point, even if she claims to be a feminist. Betsy's relationship with king and consort Eric, continues to be stormy at best. On the one hand, I can understand Eric's frustration with Betsy's intentionally obtuse attitude towards everything vampire. Betsy has access to the Book of the Dead which will inform her about her role in the life of vampires and what she can expect as their queen. It would make sense for Betsy to read it from cover to cover but of course, Betsy cannot be bothered but whines when she gains new information from Eric and Tina, which she could have learned on her own, had she bothered to read the damn book. Eric is controlling and possessive in many ways. Normally that kind of behaviour in a male love interest is beyond irritating to me but I cannot see any other way for Eric to make Betsy see the real danger she is in. I do however think that Eric took it a bit too far when he showed up at Betsy's job, demanded that she quit and when that didn't work, attempted to use his powers to force Betsy's boss to fire her. This scene is the only shining moment in the book for Betsy. \"My queen,\" he said, glaring down at me, \"does not work.\" \"This one does,\" I said shortly. \"And do you hear yourself? Jeez, I knew you were an ancient motherfucker, but even you must know women can have jobs now. And dammit! You made me say 'motherfucker' at work.\" It's the only time where Betsy stands her ground and it actually makes sense. Yes, vampires are dying but Betsy should have the right to earn her own income as she sees fit and not be dependent upon Eric or Jessica for money. Speaking of Jessica, it's clear that her main job is to support Betsy's lifestyle. When it turns out that Betsy's home is infested with termites, it's Jessica to the rescue with the purchase of a mansion. When Jessica is not pulling out her wallet, she is acting on Eric's behalf to bring Eric and Betsy together because she has determined despite Betsy's denials that Betsy has it bad for Eric. Jessica is so lucky that she even gets an invitation to Ant's party because of her wealth, which apparently overrules the colour of her skin. Jessica snarks about being offered chicken and watermelon to eat. Yes, it's racist but I still believe that Davidson adds these knock you over the head racist events because she really doesn't know how to write characters of colour. Racism is something that Davidson portrays casually. A good example of that is the exchange between Mr. Harris the cab driver and Detective Berry Read More ...more Mary Janice Davidson's Queen Betsy (a.k.a the Undead) series is a delightfully subversive and hilarious bunch of stories starring the most fashionable supernatural since Buffy; The Vampire Slayer. The 30 something year old former Miss Congeniality, Elizabeth \"Betsy\" Taylor, is the ruler of the undead after a car accident and a prophecy result in her overthrowing the tyrannical ruler of the undead. Who, for whatever reason, rules the vampire race from Minnesota. Undead and Unemployed picks up a Mary Janice Davidson's Queen Betsy (a.k.a the Undead) series is a delightfully subversive and hilarious bunch of stories starring the most fashionable supernatural since Buffy; The Vampire Slayer. The 30 something year old former Miss Congeniality, Elizabeth \"Betsy\" Taylor, is the ruler of the undead after a car accident and a prophecy result in her overthrowing the tyrannical ruler of the undead. Who, for whatever reason, rules the vampire race from Minnesota. Undead and Unemployed picks up a few week after the events of the original novel with our heroine actively denying she's now monarch of all undead. Even as she's doing her best to keep Minnesota's vampires from murdering the innocent, she refuses to actually rule them. Betsy is also doing her best to try to live a \"normal\" life, which includes getting a job at Macy's show department. Unfortunately, for Betsy, her duties as Queen of the Undead aren't so easily cast aside. Minnesota's vampires are being eliminated one by one and it falls to her to find out who is assassinating them, even though Betsy thinks the state could use a few (hundred) less undead. Throwing in the fact her new dirt-cheap mansion is haunted, Sinclair still wants to make her his consort, and there are a couple of extraordinarily beautiful vampire women hoping to lure the Vampire King to their side--Betsy has a full plate. I like Mary Janice Davidson is not afraid to take chances with her storytelling as we begin with a police report of a cab driver about Betsy stopping a would-be murderous vampire. While I prefer things in Betsy's voice, there's never really a dull moment in these books and even if you (somehow) didn't like 90% of the humor then you'd still laugh more than in most comedy books because there's just that many jokes. Individuals looking for a tight plot or coherent narrative are going to be disappointed because the book's best joke is Betsy's refusal to become involved in a typical urban fantasy/paranormal romance mystery. There's vampire hunters in town? Not my problem! Ancient powerful vampires don't want to recognize you as their Queen? Okay, fine by me. You're running out of shoe money (even though you live with a billionaire as your roommate). Oh my god, I have to get on that stat! There's absurd, dramatic, ridiculous, silly, and occasionally touching moments spread throughout this book. Queen Betsy is a force of nature, not so much by the fact she's tough or wise (lord, is she not wise) but simply because no one can really stop her Gordian Knot solution to problems. If there's vampires hunting them down, why not go find out what their issue is. If there's evil vampires plotting against you, confront them. It doesn't always work out for Betsy but it often throws the more self-assured supernaturals for a loop. I absolutely loved the supporting cast this time around with Monique, Sarah, The Blade Warriors, and others. I have to say I'm a trifle disappointed we never got to see Betsy interact with more vampires but I suppose the upcoming adventures with Lena Olin Satan (yes, you heard that right) make up for it. In conclusion, I think you'll enjoy this book tremendously if you're a fan of irreverent funny slice-of-lice comedy and vampires. There's also a nice twist at the end which I absolutely loved and shows Betsy is closer to the traditional sort of vampire than most modern interpretations of the creature. The book could use a stronger narrative but, really, the point is Betsy deliberately avoids plot progression like the plague. 9/10 ...more Undead and Unemployed is the second book in the Queen Betsy series. Betsy Taylor (AKA Queen Elizabeth I, Empress of the Undead, Rightful Rule of the Vampires along with her Consort Eric) has decided that it is time to find a job. She's been a vampire now for 4 months, and is tired of having Jessica buy everything for her. She doesn't have a car payment, or a mortgage thanks to Jessica. So, she ends up becoming a shoe salesperson at the Macy's at the Mall of America, which is her perfect job sinc Undead and Unemployed is the second book in the Queen Betsy series. Betsy Taylor (AKA Queen Elizabeth I, Empress of the Undead, Rightful Rule of the Vampires along with her Consort Eric) has decided that it is time to find a job. She's been a vampire now for 4 months, and is tired of having Jessica buy everything for her. She doesn't have a car payment, or a mortgage thanks to Jessica. So, she ends up becoming a shoe salesperson at the Macy's at the Mall of America, which is her perfect job since she's a shoe whore. (I must take a road trip and visit this mall before I'm unable to.) Betsy trying to put the whole Queen of the Vampires thing behind her. She wants nothing to do with Eric Sinclair (Finkliar), or any of the vampire politics. Jessica and her mother Elise think Eric is the best thing since the invention of the tampon and perfect for Betsy. Unlike other vampires, Betsy is able to tolerate religious objects, including holy water, and wears a cross that all vampires hate and not all vampires think she\u2019s the one who can lead them. She also believes that vampires have a soul, which later plays into the story line. Betsy's snarkiness comes through loud and clear throughout this book, including when \"her\" vampires are dying and nobody seems to know who is responsible. Betsy later finds herself with a new home with Dr. Marc and Jessica as roommates. Oh, but it gets even better. You see there's also a little ghost in her bedroom named Marie, and for much of the book, she is the only one who can see, and talk to her. Additional characters are added to this story: Monique a vampire who has an agenda. The Blade Warriors - Father Markus, Ani, Bill, Travis and Jon who is smitten like a kitten with Betsy and Sarah who once lived in the mansion Betsy et al live in now. I still enjoy Tina the vampire who has fast become a friend to Betsy even though she is reluctant to use her name and seems to keep things like the whole Eric and Betsy knowing each other and then becoming mates for a thousand years. Eric has become another story entirely. I know that Betsy and Eric end up together. I mean it is prophesized in the Book of the Dead and all. He just irks me at times with his possessiveness and unwilling to give her any space. He's also not cute or adorable when he gets this way. Then again, Betsy's libido doesn't stand a chance around him so if I'm going to continue this series; I need to open my cold dark heart to Eric. Undead and Unappreciated is the next book in this series. ...more \"Being a soulless denizen of the undead was really hard sometimes.\" I\u2019m sad to say that the second book of the Undead series fell short of my expectations. The first third of the book is pretty boring: Betsy has financial and termite problems, so she needs a job, and a new place to live. Then a group of vampire hunters appears, killing vampires all over the city. Betsy is enlightened that as a queen she has certain responsibilities. \u201cWe're getting reports of quite a few staked vampires.\u201d \u201cSo?\u201d S \"Being a soulless denizen of the undead was really hard sometimes.\" I\u2019m sad to say that the second book of the Undead series fell short of my expectations. The first third of the book is pretty boring: Betsy has financial and termite problems, so she needs a job, and a new place to live. Then a group of vampire hunters appears, killing vampires all over the city. Betsy is enlightened that as a queen she has certain responsibilities. \u201cWe're getting reports of quite a few staked vampires.\u201d \u201cSo?\u201d She looked at me. \u201cAh, no,\u201d I whined. \u201cWhat, this is my problem?\u201d \"You're the queen.\u201d \u201cOh, so I have to protect the city's vampires?\u201d \"The world's vampires, actually,\u201d she said gently. On top of this, she gets some upsetting news from her stepmother, and a little girl as a companion, whose entity is a surprise only for Betsy, but not for the reader. The intended turns of the story are too obvious \u2013 I mean the antagonist supporting the above mentioned vampire hunters, aka the Blade Warriors, aka the \"Broody Warthogs\". Although their appearances are great and laugh-out-loud funny, I soon get tired of them. I hoped for some development of Betsy, but she has the same na\u00efve, self-centered, negligent attitude she had before. But even so, she is funny most of the time. :) The final action scene is just lame; I expected a more spectacular ending. I don\u2019t despise the fact that Betsy escapes almost miraculously, thanks to her being a supervamp, but that the whole scene, especially the revenge, is performed poorly. All in all Despite the flat action, the predictable plot turns, and the uninteresting, but at least quickly disappearing new characters, Undead and Unemployed still has enough laugh-out-loud situations and sparkling dialogues to have a good time with it. A light and amusing read! Originally posted on my blog on April 14, 2013. My favorite quotes. ...more Quick & Easy read, bad language in it, one way too descriptive and unnecessary scene. I don't think I can recommend it to anyone I know. It was cute, and I wanted to know what happened after reading just a few pages. But now I want to read Twilight by Stephanie Meyer now, and hopefully that will be much better. The main character is flawed but in an interesting, I can kind of relate to her way. At the same time, she really irritated me with her pathetic relationships and how her friends/boyfr Quick & Easy read, bad language in it, one way too descriptive and unnecessary scene. I don't think I can recommend it to anyone I know. It was cute, and I wanted to know what happened after reading just a few pages. But now I want to read Twilight by Stephanie Meyer now, and hopefully that will be much better. The main character is flawed but in an interesting, I can kind of relate to her way. At the same time, she really irritated me with her pathetic relationships and how her friends/boyfriend run her whole life because she is so \"dumb\" though she loves shoes. Best friends seemed kind of cliche in the \"Let's add diversity\" kind of way - a rich black girl and a gay Doctor guy. The book is pretty forgettable, on the scale of I would never ever call it a classic. And yet, I think I am going to go read #1, since it is apparently a series and this was #2, and I am interested in the back story, since the character development was enough to intrigue me, or something like that. ...more I found this book to be just as fun as the first, but with a better plot because there was no need to introduce people/world etc. Betsy is definitely growing on me and I liked that she is trying to remain as independent as possible (respect). We did get vampire hunters introduced in this book though, so if it's a new supernatural creature with every book I'm done - but we'll see if a pattern emerges after reading the next one! Cute, mindless vampire trash novel. But still fun and I am finding I am enjoying the series. Betsy returns in Undead and Unemployed to find herself working at the Macy's shoe department and loving it. Only to have her plans dashed by Sinclair, a rogue vampire aiming for her title of queen, a love sick vampire slayer, and a boss that tries to help kill her. Still humerous with no point the books are a lot of laughs. I really enjoyed this book. I seem to be hopping around this series out of order but it doesn't seem to matter. I enjoy it just as much out of order. I love how sarcastic Betsy is. She doesn't want to be undead, the Queen of the undead or stuck with the king of the undead. Nothing seems to be within her control these days. Will I read more of this series? Definitely! I LOVE Betsy. She is hilarious! She is so no-nonsense. She says what's on her mind and gets right to the point. Well.. she does keep a few secrets to herself. While she is still getting used to being a vampire, she is still finding out how powerful she is what powers she has. I laughed out loud so many times reading this book! Poput svoje prethodnice, zabavna i lagana. Le fin un peu trop d\u00e9cevante... My review for http://fangsorfur.weebly.com/ Undead and Unemployed the second installment in <---A>MaryJanice Davidson</---A>'s Queen Betsy series is paranormal romance meets chick lit: This book picks up where the first book (Undead and Unwed) leaves off. In the first book we are introduced to Betsy Taylor a sarcastic, funny, designer shoe loving woman who gets laid off from her job as a secretary then is killed in a pedestrian-car wreck. She wakes up in the morgue, dressed in an unflattering suit and cheap k My review for http://fangsorfur.weebly.com/ Undead and Unemployed the second installment in MaryJanice Davidson's Queen Betsy series is paranormal romance meets chick lit: This book picks up where the first book (Undead and Unwed) leaves off. In the first book we are introduced to Betsy Taylor a sarcastic, funny, designer shoe loving woman who gets laid off from her job as a secretary then is killed in a pedestrian-car wreck. She wakes up in the morgue, dressed in an unflattering suit and cheap knockoff shoes thanks to her stepmother who is jealous of Betsy and her designer shoes. Betsy leaves the morgue after realizing she looks different, men react to her differently, and she can't die, which she finds out through trial and error. Eventually finds out that she's a vampire through deduction and a persistent man who shows up at her door.. Armed with friends old (Jessica) and new (Marc) she figures out how to function evening to evening in her life. Betsy meets the two camps of the vamp world, that of the evil Nostro and that of the mysterious and sexy Eric Sinclair. Betsy finds out that she is not a typical vamp, but the foretold queen of their kind. She constantly rejects this, but helps Sinclair defeat Nostro and consequently that leaves her in a position to rightfully unite everyone under her rule. Sinclair ends up being her consort/sort of husband through omission, which Betsy thinks he tricked her. The second book picks up where Betsy is looking for a new job to support herself and not rely on others. She ends up selling designer shoes at Macy's. Jessica, Marc and Betsy move into a large upscale home together after all the time they were spending together and all the vampires that come and go to swear allegiance and help Betsy transition as queen. The house quickly becomes vamp central and headquarters for the king and queen. However, Betsy has to team up with Sinclair and others to find out who keeps killing vampire women on Wednesday nights. An old allegiance to the deceased Nostro secretly pays a teenage reject group of vampire slayer vigilantes called the Blade Warriors. They target tall blond females that match Betsy's description. It turns out the Blade Warriors were practicing their slaying skills for their unnamed benefactor. The Blade Warriors attempt to attack Betsy, she escapes, and they follow her to her house where they eventually question what they are doing and befriend Eric, Betsy, and the others. The benefactor is revealed as a former Nostro supporter who thinks Betsy is a false queen. Betsy discovers this after she is wrongly terminated from her dream job at Macy's. The Nostro supporter is subsequently killed after Eric comes to save Betsy yet again. Betsy more or less embraces who she is while solving this mystery. The end of the book leaves us off where Betsy is undead, sort of unwed, and unemployed again. Undead and Unemployed definitely provides more action in this storyline and definitely charms readers into continuing to find out about Betsy's world. The negative side to this book is the brevity of the story, use of foul language (if you aren't used to it), the shallowness that Betsy sometimes portrays. ...more Vampire Queen Betsy Taylor won't let a little thing like being undead keep her from getting a job. She manages to land the perfect job for her, selling designer shoes at Macy's. She'd be happy if she could just work at Macy's and forget the vampire stuff, but someone is killing off vampires and the other vampires want their Queen to stop the killing. When Betsy herself is targeted, she is able to identify and catch the would-be killers, but even they don't know who their ringleader is. Betsy, he Vampire Queen Betsy Taylor won't let a little thing like being undead keep her from getting a job. She manages to land the perfect job for her, selling designer shoes at Macy's. She'd be happy if she could just work at Macy's and forget the vampire stuff, but someone is killing off vampires and the other vampires want their Queen to stop the killing. When Betsy herself is targeted, she is able to identify and catch the would-be killers, but even they don't know who their ringleader is. Betsy, her vampire friends (including the sexy Sinclair), and her non-vampire friends Marc and Jessica, team up with Father Markus and his group of Blade Warriors to find out just who is behind the vampire killings. As if Betsy wasn't busy enough selling shoes and tracking down vampire killers, she's also trying to help a mysterious little girl, Marie, find her mother. \"Undead and Unemployed\" is the second book in Mary Janice Davidson's Queen Betsy series (the first is Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)). It's a very funny but light read. While Betsy is an engaging character, she's a bit too shallow, especially considering all she's been through. While her job at Macy's is perfect for her, that plot line is never really developed since Betsy never seems to actually go to work. Davidson has a lot of fun tweaking the vampire myth. Betsy is unharmed by Holy Water, crucifixes, and even wooden stakes. The addition of Father Markus is a nice, humorous touch. The other supporting characters are nicely done, especially Jessica, my favorite character in the series. While there are plenty of funny bits in the book, a barbecue at Betsy's father's house is especially funny; the plot line is very thin and relies a bit too much on humor. For example, the Blade Warriors name seems to exist merely so that Betsy can make fun of it (Bloody Warthogs, Word Barriers, Blond Warriors) which is funny for awhile but wears thin. Readers will catch on to Marie's secret long before Betsy does. The ending of the book simply sets up for another sequel. Readers looking for mindless entertainment will enjoy \"Undead and Unemployed\". ...more Undead and Unemployed is the 2nd book in Mary Janice Davidson's Queen Betsy Series . Elizabeth Taylor - a.k.a. \"Betsy\" - a.k.a. Her Majesty, Queen of all Vampires - has had a rough couple of months. After being killed, (and coming back from the dead, btw) she has had nothing but trouble. In the first book in the series, Undead and Unwed , Betsy was integral in the over-throwing of the old vampire ruler, and in doing so became the de facto \"Queen of the Vampires\" (whether she likes it or not.) Unfo Undead and Unemployed is the 2nd book in Mary Janice Davidson's Queen Betsy Series . Elizabeth Taylor - a.k.a. \"Betsy\" - a.k.a. Her Majesty, Queen of all Vampires - has had a rough couple of months. After being killed, (and coming back from the dead, btw) she has had nothing but trouble. In the first book in the series, Undead and Unwed , Betsy was integral in the over-throwing of the old vampire ruler, and in doing so became the de facto \"Queen of the Vampires\" (whether she likes it or not.) Unfortunately, many of her new \"subjects\" refuse to acknowledge her - calling Betsy a false Queen - and as if that's not enough, Betsy's house is crawling with termites, she needs to find a job with night hours, and Etienne Aigners did not put out the lavender pump this season! Oh, and there's a serial vampire killer on the loose - what's a vampire Queen to do? I am so glad I gave this series another chance! Undead and Unemployed is a better book than Undead and Unwed (book 1.) It is fun, fluffy, and fantastic! Betsy is exactly the kind of Queen the vampires need - smart, sensitive, and sassy as hell. She is a charming and captivating heroine - I am definitely in her thrall and totally hooked on this series now. Undead and Unemployed is a light, fast read - more like a \"vampire sitcom\" than your typical doom and gloom, dramatic vampire story. I read it in a single sitting, and couldn't put it down! The mystery/suspense aspect of the story was extremely compelling, and the cast of characters - Sinclair and Tina, Betsy's guides in the afterlife; Jessica and Tina, her \"urban family;\" and of course the \"Blade Warriors,\" a gang of adolescent vampire slayers - all make for some hilarious scenes that had me laughing (and snorting) out loud! With interesting plot twists and and entertaining characters, Undead and Unemployed had built on the foundation set out in Undead and Unwed , and taken the story in a delightful new direction. I will be picking up book 3 today - another new series for Susan! ...more So, Betsy still doesn't want to be queen and is avoiding Sinclair and Tina as best as she can. She decides to get a job because she doesn't want to live off of Jessica forever. Next thing she knows, she's hired to work in the shoe department at Macy's and Jessica and Marc find a big new house for them that is haunted by the ghost of a little girl. The characters remain as snarky as ever, which is why I enjoy these books. A new group of vampire hunting characters are added when Tina and Eric infor So, Betsy still doesn't want to be queen and is avoiding Sinclair and Tina as best as she can. She decides to get a job because she doesn't want to live off of Jessica forever. Next thing she knows, she's hired to work in the shoe department at Macy's and Jessica and Marc find a big new house for them that is haunted by the ghost of a little girl. The characters remain as snarky as ever, which is why I enjoy these books. A new group of vampire hunting characters are added when Tina and Eric inform Betsy that someone is offing vamps. The vamp hunters end up at Betsy's house and after meeting her, Tina, Eric and a new vamp called Monique, they decide to stop hunting vamps, well, at least the good ones. Everyone brainstorms to try to figure out who the Blood Warriors' mysterious benefactor is, only to find out later that is someone they never expected and that she was having them kill off vamps as practice for ultimately killing Betsy. The reasoning being that they thought Betsy didn't deserve Eric and they wanted him for themselves. In the midst of all this, one of the vamp hunters falls for Tina, one falls for Betsy, Betsy helps the ghost of the little girl reunite with her mother, she learns some disturbing news about the Ant, she takes comfort in Eric and gets some new roomies. All the while, Betsy is still her snarky, blonde self who is determined to not be queen and not be Eric's consort. She somehow refuses to believe that Eric actually cares about her, despite her little mind-reading abilities when it comes to him. I do hope it doesn't take her too long to figure this all out. ...more From the first page to the last, this book was hard to put down. When I first read about this series, i was skeptic about how much I would be interested in it. I mean, a vampire queen that wants to live like a human? Yeah, right. But here I am into my second book, and I'm obsessed. I began this book yesterday, and I've already read it. It was impossible to put down! The plot is hilarious, but not in the sense that it's unbelievable (no more unbelievable than vampires and ghosts, anyway). The mor From the first page to the last, this book was hard to put down. When I first read about this series, i was skeptic about how much I would be interested in it. I mean, a vampire queen that wants to live like a human? Yeah, right. But here I am into my second book, and I'm obsessed. I began this book yesterday, and I've already read it. It was impossible to put down! The plot is hilarious, but not in the sense that it's unbelievable (no more unbelievable than vampires and ghosts, anyway). The more \"adult\" parts of this book weren't so dirty that you felt disgusted with yourself reading them, but interesting enough that you all of a sudden can't wait for your man to come home, hehe (; The jokes are tasteful, this book had me laughing out loud on more than one occassion! I feel like MaryJanice Davidson expresses Betsy's thoughts and emotions well through her writing. I can relate to so many things that Betsy was going through, and I loved it. Perhaps the only downfall was that some parts were easy to guess. I mean, of course Monique was the killer. You could tell by the way her character was given a lot of attention by the author. Or maybe I'm just a genius (: But other than that, I couldn't think of anything else to complain about. And with me, believe me, that is out of the ordinary. Undead and Unemployed is the best book that I have read in months. Bravo! ...more I'm a bit torn on this one, it was OK, I did like it, but it didn't grab hold of me. I probably will carry on with the series at some point, but I don't think I'll be buying anymore. It was a very quick read though. In Betsy's second outing she decides to get a job (at Macy's - selling shoes - her dream job). But at home she has problems. Her house has termites and vampires are dying. Also a lot of vamps don't believe that she is the true queen of the vampires. What follows is quite funny in plac I'm a bit torn on this one, it was OK, I did like it, but it didn't grab hold of me. I probably will carry on with the series at some point, but I don't think I'll be buying anymore. It was a very quick read though. In Betsy's second outing she decides to get a job (at Macy's - selling shoes - her dream job). But at home she has problems. Her house has termites and vampires are dying. Also a lot of vamps don't believe that she is the true queen of the vampires. What follows is quite funny in places and I won't deny that I am intrigued by Sinclair - does he really love Betsy? His character is a hard one to pin down - he's so old fashioned in the way he talks and yet he can be so sexy yet so cold from one moment to the next. The fact that Betsy can now see ghosts was a nice touch - as was her coming back from the dead (again) at the end. I actually thought Eric might cry. ...more Very easy read, but also requires a great deal of belief suspension to make it through. The dialogue doesn't always ring true and there was a pretty blatant continuity error I spotted early on. The plot has the same old \"I hate him, no, I love him\" romance theme (a la Southern Vampire Mysteries' Sookie and Eric) except it's very poorly done, with not enough time spent developing the relationship between the two lovers. At least in the Southern Vampire Mysteries this kind of omission is explained Very easy read, but also requires a great deal of belief suspension to make it through. The dialogue doesn't always ring true and there was a pretty blatant continuity error I spotted early on. The plot has the same old \"I hate him, no, I love him\" romance theme (a la Southern Vampire Mysteries' Sookie and Eric) except it's very poorly done, with not enough time spent developing the relationship between the two lovers. At least in the Southern Vampire Mysteries this kind of omission is explained away using Sookie and Eric's blood-bond. The best part was the sex, which unfortunately was glossed over. I will read the next book in the series because I requested it through an inter-library loan before reading this one, but if things don't improve, I won't be going any further. ...more This was so much better that #1 Undead and Unwed that I was very surprised. Oh yes, we still have Betsy obsessed by shoes and fashion, but we also have more characters, both good and bad, and that seems to mitigate some of the vainglory of Betsy. We actually see Betsy do the right thing just because it is the right thing and not because she has an agenda. We also see that Eric Sinclair actually does subconsciously love her, though we don't really know why. And oh to have a friend like Jessica, wit This was so much better that #1 Undead and Unwed that I was very surprised. Oh yes, we still have Betsy obsessed by shoes and fashion, but we also have more characters, both good and bad, and that seems to mitigate some of the vainglory of Betsy. We actually see Betsy do the right thing just because it is the right thing and not because she has an agenda. We also see that Eric Sinclair actually does subconsciously love her, though we don't really know why. And oh to have a friend like Jessica, with more money than Bill Gates and not afraid to spend it :) Will look for the next one from the library. ...more Much better than the previous one, but still few flaws. Sinclair sounds like a girl at times, and I mean he sounds no better than Mark(gay guy from the book). His and Betsy's characters are too close, and well its obvious that one writer was creating them, but it would be more interesting to see a diversion, or is it just me missing classic French novels. Over all very entertaining, and super easy read. I did it in 30-40 minutes, in one sitting. Good thing I have her other works, not yet sure ho Much better than the previous one, but still few flaws. Sinclair sounds like a girl at times, and I mean he sounds no better than Mark(gay guy from the book). His and Betsy's characters are too close, and well its obvious that one writer was creating them, but it would be more interesting to see a diversion, or is it just me missing classic French novels. Over all very entertaining, and super easy read. I did it in 30-40 minutes, in one sitting. Good thing I have her other works, not yet sure how soon will I read those, but she got me with mind reading thing. Problem is it only happens when they have sex, so I just wonder what Betsy will uncover there...\"I love you Betsy\" duhhh! But still need to read it. ...more Yet another book of giggles to drive the blues away. Following Betsy's journey of coming to terms with being the Queen of the Undead and (according to Vampiric Laws) married to her consort Sink Lair (Sinclair) was another hilarious conquest for me. I love Betsy and her witty sense of humour, her 'Blonde' ways, her simple deduction on life (or rather unlife). This book took us on a couple of different routes, the major route of finding out who was killing the vampires, another route where family Yet another book of giggles to drive the blues away. Following Betsy's journey of coming to terms with being the Queen of the Undead and (according to Vampiric Laws) married to her consort Sink Lair (Sinclair) was another hilarious conquest for me. I love Betsy and her witty sense of humour, her 'Blonde' ways, her simple deduction on life (or rather unlife). This book took us on a couple of different routes, the major route of finding out who was killing the vampires, another route where family life plays a small part (her step monster) of upsetting Betsy... and I think my favourite adventure was Marie. I loved Marie!!!!! I will definately be picking up the next installment to see how Betsy is getting on in her undead life!!! ...more", "Title": "Undead and Unemployed"},
