{"Comments": "This was a good book in some ways, but messed up enough that I probably won't look for more in this series. The writing style was fine - easy to read,<---M> nothing detracting from the story</---M>, etc. The plot was interesting and moved at a good pace (even if it was clearly part of a series and didn't really conclude, there was a nice ending). The world, while not overwhelmingly original, managed to stay far enough out of generic fantasy kingdom to be interesting (I really liked the crows). Unfortunately, This was a good book in some ways, but messed up enough that I probably won't look for more in this series. The writing style was fine - easy to read, nothing detracting from the story, etc. The plot was interesting and moved at a good pace (even if it was clearly part of a series and didn't really conclude, there was a nice ending). The world, while not overwhelmingly original, managed to stay far enough out of generic fantasy kingdom to be interesting (I really liked the crows).<---F> Unfortunately, the main character is perfect</---F>. Eventually I realized that the book wasn't gripping in any way, because I knew that the hero would save the day. Yes, most books end up that way, but you want to be tricked into thinking that it might not, because that's what makes it exciting. Here, not so much. The funny thing is that I didn't actually dislike the character. She starts off really well - the smart ass 16-year-old daughter of a great hero whose parents want her to make something of herself. Okay, so she's good at pretty much everything (clever, athletic, attractive, moral, relatively likable). All of this wouldn't be a problem, because the character has SUCH an attitude, you expect that she's going to get into a lot of trouble for it, have to learn humility and the value of working with others, and all that. The problem is, she never does. Everyone loves her, she talks her way out of everything, not once do her actions lead to anything other than the desired outcome and everyone defers to her with only token grumbling. Which leads to the second thing that really bugged me. The plot basically hinges on a native people taking their land back from the white-skinned invaders. These people were warriors, have been subjugated for generations, finally have their prophesied leader at hand... and are completely unable to do anything at all without our hero. I'm guessing the implications here weren't intentional, but once you notice some things, you can't un-notice them. ...more Buddy read with Castle! And my first reread O.O the last time I read this was like... 5 or so years ago. High school/college. Damn. ---------- Coming back into this book after 5+ years away, I had only a vague recollection of it. I remembered Aly, and the Balitang sisters, and the fact that Aly wanted to be a spy, but not much else. I think I spent half the book asking myself how in the hell Aly had been my least favorite MC up to this point, because she kicks ass. Also, Dove and Sarai. For noble-b Buddy read with Castle! And my first reread O.O the last time I read this was like... 5 or so years ago. High school/college. Damn. ---------- Coming back into this book after 5+ years away, I had only a vague recollection of it. I remembered Aly, and the Balitang sisters, and the fact that Aly wanted to be a spy, but not much else. I think I spent half the book asking myself how in the hell Aly had been my least favorite MC up to this point, because she kicks ass. Also, Dove and Sarai. For noble-born girls, they kick ass all on their own and I LOVE it. Can't wait to reread Trickster's Queen! ...more So I didn't think I would like this-- yeah, yeah, <---A>Tamora Pierce</---A> trying to make Alanna more interesting now that she's in middle age, suprise here's her kid who's just as whacky and awesome, OMGs. But seriously. She's teh awesome. And nothing like the Lioness books, which make them even better. While Alanna was all about her proving herself to be stronger and better than people originally assumed she was, the Trickster series is about a spy, born and bred; she lets people think she's dumb as rock So I didn't think I would like this-- yeah, yeah, Tamora Pierce trying to make Alanna more interesting now that she's in middle age, suprise here's her kid who's just as whacky and awesome, OMGs. But seriously. She's teh awesome. And nothing like the Lioness books, which make them even better. While Alanna was all about her proving herself to be stronger and better than people originally assumed she was, the Trickster series is about a spy, born and bred; she lets people think she's dumb as rocks if it suits her. Ally is interesting, the development of old characters is awesome (Alanna would *so* be the neglectful mom too focused on work to pay attention to her kids, and George would be Daddy). The crows are cool too, and make me wish I had a crow for a side-kick. But I don't. Alas. ...more 04 February 2009 The <+++>Trickster's Choice</+++> Alianne...Kyprioth...Nawat... Alianne (Aly) Cooper is the daughter of George Cooper, His Majesty\u2019s Spy-master, and Alanna (Lioness) Cooper, King\u2019s Champion. She has as her god-parents a King and Queen and as her adopted uncle and aunt the most powerful Mage in the realm and a half-goddess enchantress. But what will happen when sixteen year old Aly sneaks away from her over-protective and powerful family? The adventure begins... Captured by slave-traders (and 04 February 2009 The <+++>Trickster's Choice</+++> Alianne...Kyprioth...Nawat... Alianne (Aly) Cooper is the daughter of George Cooper, His Majesty\u2019s Spy-master, and Alanna (Lioness) Cooper, King\u2019s Champion. She has as her god-parents a King and Queen and as her adopted uncle and aunt the most powerful Mage in the realm and a half-goddess enchantress. But what will happen when sixteen year old Aly sneaks away from her over-protective and powerful family? The adventure begins... Captured by slave-traders (and with it not being Pirate season yet- dumb pirates, can\u2019t they tell time, they\u2019re not due for at least another month!) she is taken from her ancestral home Tortall to the political turmoil of the Copper Islands. Bought by Duke Mequen, third in line for the throne, she resolves to escape and return to her father as soon as possible, but is swayed from her resolve by The Trickster. Kyprioth, Trickster and rebellious little brother, he is determined to reclaim his throne- the worship of the Copper Isle peoples- that was stolen from him by his bother, Shining Mythros, and his sister the Mother Goddess. Aly is caught up in his scheme from the very beginning. He offers her a wager- keep Duke Mequen\u2019s children safe for the summer and win a trip home and a place within her father\u2019s inner circle of spies, or lose and be Kyprioth\u2019s thrall for a year. The draw of the game is too alluring to refuse, she accepts, and is thrust into the world of political intrigue and violence, where you are assassinated for the blood that runs through your veins. Nawat Crow, the handsome \u201cCrow-man\u201d took human shape to protect Aly from the dangers that haunt her. He can run like a horse, swift as and eagle, yet silent as the wind, and his fingers are so swift they can pluck arrows from the air like ripe cherries, and delicate enough to fletch arrows with deadly Stormwing feathers. This man is protector and danger, all rolled into one of the funniest heroes every to stalk the pages of the mystical realm. Protector of Aly\u2019s future and danger to her heart, he is both alluring and frightening. Sarai, Dove, Namair, George, Jonathan, Thayet, Alanna, Mythros, Winnie and Alan are just a few of the characters that will march into you heart through the heralding pages of Trickster\u2019s Choice and lodge there, bringing mystery and excitement with them. The game of The Trickster, is just beginning...The Tricksters Choice, has been made... ...more There's so much to like about this book, but there's a couple of glaring problems with it that I have to cover first. 1. This is the first time Tamora Pierce has given us a series that takes place almost exclusively outside of Tortall, but it still has a white protagonist. Don't get me wrong, I like Aly. I also understand that the Tortall books are essentially a sort of family drama. However, introducing a white protagonist whose goal is the liberation of a nation of people of color who have bee There's so much to like about this book, but there's a couple of glaring problems with it that I have to cover first. 1. This is the first time Tamora Pierce has given us a series that takes place almost exclusively outside of Tortall, but it still has a white protagonist. Don't get me wrong, I like Aly. I also understand that the Tortall books are essentially a sort of family drama. However, introducing a white protagonist whose goal is the liberation of a nation of people of color who have been conquered and oppressed by white people plays into some unpleasant colonialist narratives. I mentioned in a previous post that one possible way to accommodate both the \"family drama\" style of the overall series and the Copper Isles setting would have been to have the main protagonist be a Copper Isles native with Aly as a secondary character. 2. Aly is continually critical of the planned revolution and asks several PoC characters about the possible loss of life to the mostly white ruling class of the Isles. I understand that revolutions can be a bloody business and that Aly is living with a mixed family in the book, which is a reminder to her that the white ruling class is not some nameless faceless evil. This does complicate things. However, on at least one occasion, it's suggested that the current white rulers of the country have only \"inherited\" their situation, as if that diminishes their responsibility for the ongoing oppression and enslavement of the indigenous people. This is, frankly, bullshit. No one gets to choose their parents, but people do get to choose whether or not to participate in the perpetuation of evil. Honestly, I just think that Aly has too much sympathy for and spends to much time worrying about what might happen to the oppressing class when shit hits the fan. These are some pretty major flaws, in my opinion, but I really liked the book in spite of these problems. Trickster's Choice is not as quick a read as most of Tamora Pierce's other books and it's far less action driven, dealing largely with political intrigue, but it's got a lot going for it. - A large and diverse cast of female characters. This is a hallmark of Tamora Pierce's work, but it's something that I never fail to appreciate because it's so rare. Each girl or woman in the book is well-characterized and unique, and they are constantly talking to each other and forming meaningful relationships. - I especially love how different Aly is from the protagonists of Pierce's other series. I like that I never feel like I'm reading the same story over and over with Tamora Pierce, and Aly is vastly different from Alanna, Daine, and Kel. - I loved getting to read about the Copper Isles and their people. It's really common for fantasy worlds to have places that are populated by people of color, but it's relatively rare for these settings to be explored in a way that shows those people as multidimensional people with complex societies, cultures, goals, and histories of their own. I like that, while Aly is from Tortall, the story of what is going on in the Copper Isles so far has nothing to do with how it is going to affect Tortall. I think the book is, for the most part, properly focused on the people of the Copper Isles and what they want for themselves. - While I already said that it bothers me that this story is being told from the point of view of a white outsider protagonist, I do like that, again for the most part, Aly is working with the people of the Copper Isles as a helper more than as a leader. She's an important helper, and she has a leadership position, but she's not the leader of the revolution she's helping to foment and it's pretty clear that this revolution would happen with or without Aly. This doesn't negate the problem that I have with it, but it does prevent it from being a Dances With Wolves/Last Samurai situation. - Nawat Crow is an interesting character. He's definitely the weirdest possible love interest for a protagonist that I've seen for a while, and I'm curious to see how that plays out. - I love Sarai and Dove. And Winnamine. ...more This book, and its sequel \"Trickster's Queen,\" were given to me for my birthday by my dear friend Corey. I had recently been longing for some escapist media -- the world has felt a little too real recently, and I wanted a break. The books came highly recommended from Corey, who loved them for the ways that they are explicit tales of anti-colonial uprising, with cross-species romance and Gods-touched descriptions of obligations and duty. Needless to say, I ate this book up with a silver spoon. Re This book, and its sequel \"Trickster's Queen,\" were given to me for my birthday by my dear friend Corey. I had recently been longing for some escapist media -- the world has felt a little too real recently, and I wanted a break. The books came highly recommended from Corey, who loved them for the ways that they are explicit tales of anti-colonial uprising, with cross-species romance and Gods-touched descriptions of obligations and duty. Needless to say, I ate this book up with a silver spoon. Reading it on the subway or otherwise in the down time minutes, I flew through it in a few days. One of the things that's on my mind these days is how to tell a different story than the story that repeats the narratives of white male supremacy and neoliberal global capitalism. (Forgive the buzz word lingo for a minute, friends. In the essay that I'm thinking about and sorting out how to write these days, I'll take the time to explain what I'm talking about when I say these things. But for now, bear with me.) I think about this as an ideological problem with just about everything I see/read/consume these days -- from James Bond to Indiana Jones to smaller works like a *great* independent movie I just saw \"Sleep Dealer\" to these books. And what I was deeply touched by in these books is the attempt to tell a different story -- and that these books are intended for a young adult audience. Hell yes, I think. The specific problem that I am wrestling with, which I think is a primary focus of this novel, is how to convince/recruit folks with privilege to the cause which will bring about the liberation of everyone -- a liberation that will require the loss of privilege/resources by the owning/ruling class. What does it take for people to get on the right side of history? This novel's answer is pretty specific. The \"luarin\"/white woman who is the novel's protagonist is kidnapped and sold into slavery and becomes ensnared in another country's revolution, largely through a wager with a deposed Trickster God. By being a foreigner and a slave, the protagonist sees and experiences the world from the eyes of the people who have been violently oppressed by the luarin ruling class for several centuries. She is operating out of her own interests (freedom from slavery via the God), and using the skills that she was raised with as a member of her home country's luarin ruling class. So, her privilege is definitely in play, and she is not actually brutalized by her slavery (still has that luarin white skin, for one thing, and for another her slavery rapidly becomes a disguise to her advantage). But the pivot point which makes her realize that she will stay to fight the revolution (which is, honestly, the climax of the story) is when the luarin ruling class of this country has proven itself so corrupt and bloodthirsty that they attempt to murder the whole family of honorable luarin that the protagonist has been sold to. That they succeed in killing the patriarch is significant -- it is with that news that the protagonist decides to willingly give her energy and expertise to overthrowing the corrupt luarin throne. I'm fascinated by this, because even with a story that's interested in the narratives of liberation, the story is still told via the perspective and experience of a ruling class individual. This person is stripped of the outward vestiges of her power, yes, and it is that change of perspective that gives her the ability to broaden her thinking and see what needs to be done -- and what her role must be, as a person with a set of highly dangerous, highly regulated skills (thieving/spying). But see, here's the criticism: the luarin protagonist with privilege maintains privilege throughout the book (and certainly into the sequel, which lays out the mousetrap of their revolution). At no point does this character actually have to make a sacrifice for her revolution. She provides a service, certainly, but the liberation of the raka (the brown folks of this world) is never *her* liberation. And yet -- and here's the trouble -- she is given a privileged place amongst the rebels. She sees things they don't see, because she is the daughter of a ruling class of mixed blood (immortal/mortal) heritage, and because she is specifically touched by a God, and is preternaturally good at what she does. She makes a few mistakes along the way, but they are not actually all that costly. And in the end, there is regime change -- and, importantly, a redistribution of land -- but I'm struck by the way that the fundamental power structures were never really challenged. So now that I've held this text to the coals and run it through my particular ideological lens, I will say this -- it's very entertaining, and well-plotted, and still does portray an uprising that at least touches on these issues. And I'm glad that young people are reading this, and thinking through these narratives (with probably an even more critical eye than my own). With thanks and love to my friend Corey on my birthday. Don't worry that I take the text apart, hon. That's one of my favorite activities, too...dontcha know. **grin** ...more My initial reaction: what happened to all the good, easy to pronounce names like Jon and George? I seriously dislike a majority of the names in this book. I know Tamora was probably going for something exotic with the whole Raka thing but it was just weird I had a hard time remembering who was who. As a girl power book, I didn't like it as much as Alanna. Aly seemed to get thing more dropped into her lap than actually fighting for what she wanted, which bothered me. Also, I know she wants to spy My initial reaction: what happened to all the good, easy to pronounce names like Jon and George? I seriously dislike a majority of the names in this book. I know Tamora was probably going for something exotic with the whole Raka thing but it was just weird I had a hard time remembering who was who. As a girl power book, I didn't like it as much as Alanna. Aly seemed to get thing more dropped into her lap than actually fighting for what she wanted, which bothered me. Also, I know she wants to spy like her \"Da\" but seriously? She has no other ambitions? I didn't relate to her character at all. So why did I give this book 3 stars? It got bumped up from two only because of Nawat. Perhaps because of the stupid name, he was stupidly funny. One thing Tamora has always been able to do for me is make me laugh and giggle at the awkward romances. And the fact that Nawat keeps trying to \"mate-feed\" her is hilarious. Also, the cameo roles of Alanna and George almost made me want to cry. They are not the characters I remember and loved. Maybe I'm just too young to appreciate them in their middle age ... ...more Okay, I did like this. But, the fact that it took me over a month to read it knocked off a star in my overall review. I've heard so much about Tamora Pierce on this site, that I figured this would be a no brainer... maybe it's me. Yeah, it's probably me. But, first of all, I found out that this is the first book in the SECOND series of books and that was turn off numero one. I don't like coming into a story if characters have already been introduced. It's like watching Problem Child 2 before Prob Okay, I did like this. But, the fact that it took me over a month to read it knocked off a star in my overall review. I've heard so much about Tamora Pierce on this site, that I figured this would be a no brainer... maybe it's me. Yeah, it's probably me. But, first of all, I found out that this is the first book in the SECOND series of books and that was turn off numero one. I don't like coming into a story if characters have already been introduced. It's like watching Problem Child 2 before Problem Child . It's just wrong. Second, I get really tired of having to figure out names. I'm not expecting everyone to be named Kelly or Larry or something easy like that... but I'm tired of trying to remember who Lokeij is and if that person is Bronau or who's Nawat again? (Okay, that's a lie, I can't forget Nawat.) I didn't hate it and I'll probably read the sequels. Although, I won't be happy with myself. Like when Ted McGinley joined Happy Days in Season 8. Sometimes you just can't stop. ...more I'll write a proper review very soon, I swear - but I'm on 10% battery at the library and so my time is running out! (Fingers crossed for home internet so so soon...) Anyway first (rushed) impressions: Didn't fall as deeply in love with Aly as with Alanna or Kel Or Daine (or Daja, or Briar... etc etc) She's still a Tamora Pierce character and therefore wonderfully written, fully fleshed out and likeable. Interesting that colonialism is tackled - and I think handled quite well for the most part, thou I'll write a proper review very soon, I swear - but I'm on 10% battery at the library and so my time is running out! (Fingers crossed for home internet so so soon...) Anyway first (rushed) impressions: Didn't fall as deeply in love with Aly as with Alanna or Kel Or Daine (or Daja, or Briar... etc etc) She's still a Tamora Pierce character and therefore wonderfully written, fully fleshed out and likeable. Interesting that colonialism is tackled - and I think handled quite well for the most part, though unsure if there is a slightly colonialist-apologetic tone..? have to think about it. The Goddess is almost a villian here! Interesting... Nawat? Crow-turned-boy-turned love-interest? Interesting concept again... Too weird? Yes? No? ...more I am a girl and I love fantasy and I love strong heroines. Do not ask me why it has taken me this long to read a Tamora Pierce book. Could it be that the first book of all of her series are mysteriously missing? (Seriously, this always flippin happens). But one day, I saw this and leapt on it before the magic fairies could whisk it away again (Not as seriously). In the Tortall world, this is an odd place for me to start. Most of everything has already happened. Although, it wasn't impossible to c I am a girl and I love fantasy and I love strong heroines. Do not ask me why it has taken me this long to read a Tamora Pierce book. Could it be that the first book of all of her series are mysteriously missing? (Seriously, this always flippin happens). But one day, I saw this and leapt on it before the magic fairies could whisk it away again (Not as seriously). In the Tortall world, this is an odd place for me to start. Most of everything has already happened. Although, it wasn't impossible to catch up and keep the facts straight, it wasn't too easy either. And I kept feeling like I was missing something. Some of Pierce's characters from her other Tortall novels kept making cameo appearances, and I felt left out, like I should have been more enthusiastic. (The Lioness, woohoo!). I know how excited I get when Sarah Dessen leaves me with one of her little Easter eggs, so who knows how excited I would be if I had at least read the Alanna books first. The writing was clunky and serviceable. Not gorgeous prose or elaborate descriptions here. Just phrases like \"Nawat picked up his bow and went to patrol the perimeter.\" (This excerpt is not an excerpt at all, but a random sentence I just pulled out of my butt). It also seemed a tedious sometimes. Some paragraphs were more of a list than anything else. There is just so much information Pierce wants to share with her reader, but she doesn't always do it in an intrinsic, natural way. Even with the prologue-thing that set up the story, there were times when a situation would be created just for the purpose of info-dumping. The politics were intriguing, but made my head spin. There was a multitude of characters, while mostly flat, they have potential, and I hope to delve more into their personalities with the following book. Also, the girly, romantic side of me wants more romance. More romance, please! And I am reallllllyyy looking forward to Aly's identity reveal. I kept looking for opportune moments in this book. I would imagine situations in my head where Aly reveals her identity to her charges, and was frustrated that it hasn't happened yet. I know I am a mega-dork. I know. Overall, this will certainly not be the last Tamora Pierce book I read. A good fantasy for those looking to get out of a paranormal rut. ...more :/ I was hoping that I would enjoy this series better than Tamora Pierce's other Tortall books, which, while entertaining, didn't enamor me, mostly because they felt like they weren't original fantasy, and because Pierce seemed ham-handed with her messages. I put that off to the fact that many of the other Tortall novels were oriented towards younger readers (around 4th grade), and because the Alana books, in particular, are older, which would've made them ahead of their time as far as \"feminist :/ I was hoping that I would enjoy this series better than Tamora Pierce's other Tortall books, which, while entertaining, didn't enamor me, mostly because they felt like they weren't original fantasy, and because Pierce seemed ham-handed with her messages. I put that off to the fact that many of the other Tortall novels were oriented towards younger readers (around 4th grade), and because the Alana books, in particular, are older, which would've made them ahead of their time as far as \"feminist\" content goes, but perhaps underwhelming to the contemporary reader. Trickster's Choice , while written at a higher reading level (more middle grade, early high school YA) and with more complexity insofar as the political plot, has several other problems for me. At the very least, I found it BORING. The main character is boring, and I can't think of any defining character traits to describe her. She's conveniently good at everything, and I don't actually *believe* or am drawn in by her supposed emotions (concern for her family, embarrassment at being courted, anxiety that her charges may be killed!). She's also smart-ass, but not enough of one to make her anything but mildly irritating and make her seem like a petulant child, which she is, since she's on her whole mission just to one-up her parents. She also conveniently possesses all the necessary skills and doesn't have to learn anything, except how to not overtly be an upper class snob since she's pretending to be a slave. The main character's romance is boring. The book doesn't have much action, which would be fine, except that the politics are stereotypical. (For convenience sake, I'm going to refer to the majority pale-skinned rulers (Luarans) of the islands as \"white\" and the dark-skinned population native to the islands who were enslaved (Raka) as \"black.\") Worse than being boring, it's hard to get over the whole Tom Cruise/ Last Samurai aspect. For some reason the black population, who has leaders, mages, and an army, which have been built up over the last several decades needs a blue-blooded white girl to launch their revolution? Although Pierce mixes in some comments of admiration for the Raka's organization, she also writes things to the effect of, \"To the Raka, who had never dealt with political intrigue before, Aly must have seemed like a godsend!\" I'm not quite sure why Tamora Pierce didn't tell this story from some other character's point of view except that she figured that she could reel more readers in (probably rightly so) because Aly is the daughter of the beloved characters Alanna and George. Another statement that likely was thoughtless but which could potentially be construed as extremely offensive was the line after the crow-turned-boy Nawat commented after running his fingers through Aly's (of course light-colored and fine) hair, \"Your hair is so easy to preen!\" Um, since it's highly likely that all of the other girls whose hair Nawat \"preened\" were Raka (black) or part-Raka, they probably had textured hair. So...the main love interest in this book just showed a strong preference for white features. ::cringe:: Greeeeat message for girls, not. Something that might be dealt with better later on is the fact that the two girls whom Aly is supposed to be guarding are bi-racial (of royal Luarin and Raka bloodlines), and due to an old prophecy, everyone thinks that these girls will be the ones to overthrow the yoke of Luarin (white) rule on the Copper Isles. This...is just complicated, and Tamora Piere doesn't do a good job whatsoever, if at all (she just ignores it except for saying that they're beautiful, probably because of the whole, \"mixed babies are beautiful\" mentality), depicting what must be significant difficulties for these girls in dealing with not only their biracial heritage, but also their biculturalism, considering that it was definitely not the norm for their white royal father to marry a black woman. While it makes sense via the prophecy-as-plot-device for these girls to eventually play a role in overthrowing the current oppressive Luarin rule, it just seems in poor taste to me. This isn't the same as taking some European country's King and some other European country's princess and marrying them off to solidify political and economic ties. If mulattos could magically change the entire racial landscape, then WTF is up with the American South (and America in general)?! To add insult to injury, Aly berates the bitter black old woman mage who hates all white people about reverse racism, and how they can't kill off all Luarins since there has been substantial racial mixing (either through marriage or less consensual means). I don't think that Tamora Pierce intended to be racially and culturally insensitive, but Tamora Pierce isn't Shannon Hale. She apparently doesn't have the fine touch to deal with complex racial, cultural, and economic issues in a children's fantasy book. ...more This book is compulsively readable, with a plethora of female characters who aren't ever going to wait around for any man to rescue them. And that's awesome. I really liked having an action-adventure-fantasy book where the women are the dominant and active force. The political machinations are intriguing and at times unexpected, and the writing quality is top-notch. So why three stars? To quote another reviewer (Meg): \"The plot basically hinges on a native [dark-skinned] people taking their land ba This book is compulsively readable, with a plethora of female characters who aren't ever going to wait around for any man to rescue them. And that's awesome. I really liked having an action-adventure-fantasy book where the women are the dominant and active force. The political machinations are intriguing and at times unexpected, and the writing quality is top-notch. So why three stars? To quote another reviewer (Meg): \"The plot basically hinges on a native [dark-skinned] people taking their land back from the white-skinned invaders. These people were warriors, have been subjugated for generations, finally have their prophesied leader at hand... and are completely unable to do anything at all without our hero. I'm guessing the implications here weren't intentional, but once you notice some things, you can't un-notice them.\" Meg is exactly right. Aly is clearly coded as a white girl (strawberry blond with green eyes), just like the white \"luarin\" who have colonized the island. However, the darker-skinned raka (who seem based on Malasian or Indonesian people, based on their garb and descriptions) still perceive her as luarin. The raka god apparently couldn't rescue his own people without the help of a white girl. That is...problematic, to say the least. This could have been a five-star book. Considering that huge, gigantic issue, it speaks to the quality of the writing and other elements of a story that this even got a three. Other people have complained that the story should be told from Dove or Sarai's POV. I didn't have a problem with that, so much, although I think making it a multiple-POV story (maybe from both Aly and Dove's POVs) would have improved it. It does have interesting viewpoints on slavery and colonialism, but it also has a serious \"Dances With Wolves\" problem. ...more Let me just say that as an Alanna fan I was already fairly certain when I started this novel that I would love Alianne. The novel starts off wonderfully and it is very obvious that Aly is Alanna and George's daughter. With George's mischievous nature and Alanna quick mind Aly is able to easily win your heart. After a short while of reading it is no longer your love for George and Alanna that fuels your wanting to learn more but instead your love for the intelligent and unique young woman who is Let me just say that as an Alanna fan I was already fairly certain when I started this novel that I would love Alianne. The novel starts off wonderfully and it is very obvious that Aly is Alanna and George's daughter. With George's mischievous nature and Alanna quick mind Aly is able to easily win your heart. After a short while of reading it is no longer your love for George and Alanna that fuels your wanting to learn more but instead your love for the intelligent and unique young woman who is slowly learning to be herself even when hiding in plain sight. You also meet two wonderful characters Sarai and Dove, along with many other related characters who I won't say too much about because it is just too much fun for you to learn while reading. Sarai has a heart willed with a passionate fire while Dove in contrast keeps to herself and is very calm and calculating. When these two characters interact with with Aly it is like magic. Though Nawat's magic is much more potent. You can't help but enjoy his humor to say the least. Overall, wonderful new characters and very lovable. From my blog: http://EmmaMichaels.Blogspot.com ...more This book was a real delight! It is always a relief to read a book with a strong female character, one that is also believably feminine as well. There is humor, tragedy, betrayal, and good friends as well. There also is a trickster god who makes a deal with the main character, Aly, that if she keeps the girls to a family alive through the fall equinox that he will free her from being a slave and send her back home. Aly ends up freeing herself in a very honorable way. This is well worth recommend This book was a real delight! It is always a relief to read a book with a strong female character, one that is also believably feminine as well. There is humor, tragedy, betrayal, and good friends as well. There also is a trickster god who makes a deal with the main character, Aly, that if she keeps the girls to a family alive through the fall equinox that he will free her from being a slave and send her back home. Aly ends up freeing herself in a very honorable way. This is well worth recommending to teens, both female and male. In it they will find the horror of war and the beauty of keeping promises and finding out the surprises of life. Any more details would result in me having to slap a spoiler alert so I don't want to say more. Just that I enjoyed this immensely, the characters and story are believable and griping and you really should run, not walk, and get a reserve on this in your local library! Now I need to take my own suggestion and place a hold on the sequel to this book! ...more 2.5 I really like all the other Tortall series so I was primed to enjoy this one. Have to say I was very put off by the supremely self-assured manner of the main character. Never a moment's uncertainty or self-doubt, or much introspection at all. Not a good quality in a YA book, or really any story where you want to see some character development and growth. I'll be reading the sequel, but just because I'm a fan of Tortall, and they are very quick reads. Disappointed, to say the least, because I 2.5 I really like all the other Tortall series so I was primed to enjoy this one. Have to say I was very put off by the supremely self-assured manner of the main character. Never a moment's uncertainty or self-doubt, or much introspection at all. Not a good quality in a YA book, or really any story where you want to see some character development and growth. I'll be reading the sequel, but just because I'm a fan of Tortall, and they are very quick reads. Disappointed, to say the least, because I was looking forwared to what the author would do with a non-warrior female lead character. ...more Shit. Pure and utter. However, I'm reading the second book because I'm a masochist with a ridiculous desire to know whether the main character has pseudo-bestial sex with a dude who was formerly a crow. I just finished rereading this book because I'd basically forgotten everything about it and decided it was time to update myself on the world of Tortall. I changed my rating from a 4 star to a 3 star for a couple of reasons. First, the beginning moved slowly and made it hard for me to keep going. Honestly, the only reason I kept going was because I'd remembered the character Nawat being my favorite character and I wanted to remember why. I wasn't disappointed. Nawat is still my favorite character. I just finished rereading this book because I'd basically forgotten everything about it and decided it was time to update myself on the world of Tortall. I changed my rating from a 4 star to a 3 star for a couple of reasons. First, the beginning moved slowly and made it hard for me to keep going. Honestly, the only reason I kept going was because I'd remembered the character Nawat being my favorite character and I wanted to remember why. I wasn't disappointed. Nawat is still my favorite character. The second reason for the rating change was the writing. I don't know why this didn't seem to flow as well as the PROTECTOR OF THE SMALL QUARTET did, but I found myself rereading paragraphs and sentences because I wasn't sure I understood what was being said. Sometimes I even had to go back over whole conversations because I felt like I'd missed something. And then there was the constant explanations of Aly's actions. Sometimes it was welcome, most of the time it was not. Finally, Aly herself. She was so perfect. She was skilled in practically everything . There wasn't anything that she couldn't do. It didn't bother me too much that she was so talented in everything, but it would have been nice to see a little bit more challenge in Aly's stay at the Copper Isles. It was a bit boring with everything coming so easily for her. Overall, it's not a bad book. But I can see why I had forgotten about it and I don't feel any strong compulsion to complete the series. ...more This wasn't as good as the first one, but still solid. For some reason, the court stuff dragged on a little more for me, just like the gradual chipping away at the power of the palace seemed slow-paced to a lot of Aly's spies. I wanted stuff to happen, for the grand revolution to take place! But I learned just like those spies that the moment has to be right to strike. I do love how when the spies of other group leaders find out that Aly is the kind of spy master, they protest not about how she's This wasn't as good as the first one, but still solid. For some reason, the court stuff dragged on a little more for me, just like the gradual chipping away at the power of the palace seemed slow-paced to a lot of Aly's spies. I wanted stuff to happen, for the grand revolution to take place! But I learned just like those spies that the moment has to be right to strike. I do love how when the spies of other group leaders find out that Aly is the kind of spy master, they protest not about how she's a girl, but about her youth. And it was interesting to see the dynamics in the two different races, where one had only a male inheriting and the other was ready to crown a queen. I was really surprised about the little ship outcome, (view spoiler) [ but it really adds a bit of grit to the story. I still think it was taking the easy way out for Aly, but what else are you going to do? She didn't want to have to do anything about it so she didn't. But the thought had occurred to her, and it's a little convenient to just take it out of her hands. You can't have a baby killer for a main character and expect people to be sympathetic as long as they're supposedly a nice character. (hide spoiler) ] I ended up being right about Dove -- I knew there had to be some other plan. But no spoilers! ...more Read July 8, 2014 --- Read 2007: Of all the stories set in the realm of Tortall, this series featuring the famous Alana the Lioness's daughter is my absolute favorite. It almost feels like Pierce grew as an author when she wrote these two books, they read so much more intricately than the rest of her series. Ali is my ideal protagonist: trained as a spy at her fathers knee, she had a lot of skills, but no real goal in life. But all that changes when the trickster God decides to use her in his own Read July 8, 2014 --- Read 2007: Of all the stories set in the realm of Tortall, this series featuring the famous Alana the Lioness's daughter is my absolute favorite. It almost feels like Pierce grew as an author when she wrote these two books, they read so much more intricately than the rest of her series. Ali is my ideal protagonist: trained as a spy at her fathers knee, she had a lot of skills, but no real goal in life. But all that changes when the trickster God decides to use her in his own plans. And thus starts her journey to the Copper Isles (of which we've only heard a tiny bit of before, namely the traitor princess that Alana beheaded) and they are wonderful and amazing and filled with old magic and new dreams and oh it's all so glorious. I have to say I wish that Pierce had written a bit more about the spy life. I would have loved to learn a bit more about that. Still, I feel like not only did I live what Ali did, I actually LIVED it. Pierce brought the story to life, and I am ever grateful for her writing skills that do that. ...more Tamora Pierce is the queen. She writes consistently good, female empowering, amazing, attention grabbing heroines and leaves you desperate for more (seriously, none of my libraries have sequel, which is terrible) The glimpses of other characters were FABULOUS, (Daine's baby, Alanna all grown up KEL KEL KEL KEL KEL... sorry. Kel is my favourite) but it is this books marvellous characters, tense and tight plot, and amazing setting which really drew me in. Alianne is totally different to her mother Tamora Pierce is the queen. She writes consistently good, female empowering, amazing, attention grabbing heroines and leaves you desperate for more (seriously, none of my libraries have sequel, which is terrible) The glimpses of other characters were FABULOUS, (Daine's baby, Alanna all grown up KEL KEL KEL KEL KEL... sorry. Kel is my favourite) but it is this books marvellous characters, tense and tight plot, and amazing setting which really drew me in. Alianne is totally different to her mother. We see that in the beginning, when they fight. She doesn't know what she wants to do in life (other than spying) and she is at home by herself. She's all alone and confused. Tricksters choice had a little bit of your typical YA finding yourself story, but what I loved about Alianne is that she is self aware. She knows her flaws, and knows that she's been playing with other hearts. And she feels ashamed Her growth through the story- and probably through Tricksters' Queen as well- makes her into a more brave person. I also loved her interactions with Krypioth. Nawat is fascinating. He's and ex-crow and his naivety, as well as being an excellent world building device, is seriously entertaining. (view spoiler) [ Especially, y'know, that mate feeding kiss. that was adorable (hide spoiler) ] I really liked how his and Aly's relationship worked. Dove is fascinating. Something is going to happen to her in the next book which will show who she truly is. I predict a betrayal. Her repression and intelligence just fit in with her character perfectly. I like Saraiyu-I thought she was a realistically written sixteen-year-old noblewoman- but I'm not entirely sure she has it in her to be queen of the Copper Isles. Her internal conflict between raka and luarin was interesting, though, and I loved her participation in the fight scene at the end. Krypioth was hilarious. Winnamine was excellent. I loved Mathen. There are a lot of names to keep track of, but there is a helpful index at the back if you get confused. Pierce's plots are always well put together. In Trickster's Choice, I loved how layered it was. there is a) a young woman seeking independence, b)long term conquerer-conquered mindsets changing, c)a prophecy d) a god and they meet in strange and unexpected ways. I felt like Aly was a little too equipped to deal with the situations she was given sometimes, but I liked her resourcefulness. The entire rebel alliance thing did not feel at all overused in the this book. Which is a good thing. The twists and turns of the plot were always unexpected, and when things happened you never knew how it would come into play. I loved how suspenseful it was. This is a spy novel, but it isn't a mystery novel, but the formula was very different to all the other Tortall stories which I've read. Finally, there is the setting. I loved how diverse it was. This may be a fantasy world, but ethnic conflicts are a huge deal. It was interesting to be taken out of Tortall- we've seen a little bit of Carthark, Scanra and Galla in the other books, but the Copper Isles setting was seamlessly incorporated with the plot. I really liked the language, and the culture- sarongs and magic and so on. Also, the maps really helped me out. The use of idiom is even adjusted for people like the crows, and there are legends and myths (yes, and gods) backing everything up. I loved the Copper Isles setting and the rich history deposed kings and queens it was given. This was an excellent book. I think Tamora Pierce is really, really amazing, and reading her books makes me happy. I'm going to find the next one and devour it. Go Aly! ...more I AM CRYING MY HEART HURTS I CAN'T GET THE WORDS \"DA\" OUT OF MY HEAD I DON'T REMEMBER FEELING THIS BROKEN THE FIRST TIME Aly, a kid with a very impressive family background (including god-parents/adopted family members). Spoilers ahead ! When I first picked this book up, I didnt have much expectations. I had seen Ms Pierce's books in the bookshops/ebookshop/elibrary but I never really had an urge to read them. After reading so many other books (almost everything that caught my fancy), I came across this again and thought to myself, why not. I didn't regret this at all. I was thrown into a world where there are spie Aly, a kid with a very impressive family background (including god-parents/adopted family members). Spoilers ahead ! When I first picked this book up, I didnt have much expectations. I had seen Ms Pierce's books in the bookshops/ebookshop/elibrary but I never really had an urge to read them. After reading so many other books (almost everything that caught my fancy), I came across this again and thought to myself, why not. I didn't regret this at all. I was thrown into a world where there are spies (I love spies!) and intrigue and machinations of court. I stayed up all night finishing this, loving the different characters that came up, the trickster God, the complexity of the different races and how the relationship between the invaders and the subdued had turn out (which mirrors some nations today). Aly had turned out to be one spunky kid, seeing how she dealt with people, trying to pretend that she isnt that smart but is actually the one running the scheme of things was great. I like how she start to be less of the rebellious kid and start to understand her mother with whom she feels stifled with and have often misunderstandings with. I started reading with no expectations and came out as a fan. ...more This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ All Alianne wants to do is be a spy like her father, however her parents don\u2019t agree. So, frustrated at them she sails down the coast only to be captured by pirates. She is sold as a slave to the Balitang family as a general worker, and makes a deal with the Trickster God, Kyprioth, if she keeps the Balitang children alive until autumn, he will convince her father to allow her be a spy, however this deal may be hard This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ All Alianne wants to do is be a spy like her father, however her parents don\u2019t agree. So, frustrated at them she sails down the coast only to be captured by pirates. She is sold as a slave to the Balitang family as a general worker, and makes a deal with the Trickster God, Kyprioth, if she keeps the Balitang children alive until autumn, he will convince her father to allow her be a spy, however this deal may be harder than it seems. Pierce\u2019s books can be a bit hit or miss with me, but this is defiantly a hit. Aly is an interesting character that is feisty yet likeable. This is a really fascinating story with action, humour and romance. I would recommend Trickster\u2019s Choice to anyone who likes Tamora Pierce books or good YA fantasy. ...more I enjoyed this for all the reasons Connor told me I would: the best Pierce writing, the most convincing development of a relationship and main character, and most of all, the actual! discussion! of! racial! politics! And the convincing set-up of political unrest and rebellion is really great, too. I also am very fond of Aly and the rest of the characters (Dove! all the rebels!) and am of course ridiculously pleased with the glimpses we get of Daine/Numair!! and Alanna/George. It's actually really I enjoyed this for all the reasons Connor told me I would: the best Pierce writing, the most convincing development of a relationship and main character, and most of all, the actual! discussion! of! racial! politics! And the convincing set-up of political unrest and rebellion is really great, too. I also am very fond of Aly and the rest of the characters (Dove! all the rebels!) and am of course ridiculously pleased with the glimpses we get of Daine/Numair!! and Alanna/George. It's actually really important to me that they talk about Alanna and Aly having issues in their relationship--very rarely do series address the \"after,\" and that it acknowledges that for Alanna to be the hero and Champion she is, she is an absent mother, is a strangely important thing for me here. Anyway, I loved it. It was also satisfyingly, properly long, so this is also a pretty solid 4.5. ...more I'm disappointed in this book I thought Pierce made a lot of progress in her last quartet. Kel remains my favorite Tortall character. But this book kinda slides back a bit for me. I can appreciate that the plot was a bit more intricate with plenty of political intrigue, but there are a lot of moments that are kind of uncomfortable. I get that there is a message about colonialism (for lack of a better word) in this novel, but there's something really uncomfortable a white savior being chosen by t I'm disappointed in this book I thought Pierce made a lot of progress in her last quartet. Kel remains my favorite Tortall character. But this book kinda slides back a bit for me. I can appreciate that the plot was a bit more intricate with plenty of political intrigue, but there are a lot of moments that are kind of uncomfortable. I get that there is a message about colonialism (for lack of a better word) in this novel, but there's something really uncomfortable a white savior being chosen by the gods to save a native people. I found myself cringing quite a few times. Plus, the savior in question is annoying! I really didn't care for Aly. I found her way too perfect and her attitude is really grating and cocky. Plus, the relationship with Nawat is a bit strange and I didn't get a lot of chemistry between the two. Also, someone really needs to explain to me why Pierce likes Daine so much (easily my least favorite character) that she constantly plays a role in these stories, but Kel only gets a cameo. The story itself also took me a while to get into. Overall, this book was not my favorite. ...more Alianne is the only daughter of Alanna (the Lioness, First Lady Knight, a powerful mage, and King's Champion) and George (head of Royal Spymasters) Cooper-- and she has some big shoes to fill. However, Aly isn't interested in courting men and managing an estate, nor is she interested in becoming a lady knight like her mother. Instead, Aly wants to be part of her father's network of spies. At 16 years old, she is expected to find a job, a passion, something. But spy work is deemed inappropriate a Alianne is the only daughter of Alanna (the Lioness, First Lady Knight, a powerful mage, and King's Champion) and George (head of Royal Spymasters) Cooper-- and she has some big shoes to fill. However, Aly isn't interested in courting men and managing an estate, nor is she interested in becoming a lady knight like her mother. Instead, Aly wants to be part of her father's network of spies. At 16 years old, she is expected to find a job, a passion, something. But spy work is deemed inappropriate and far too deadly for their daughter so Aly just wastes away her days with every growing disapproval from her family and their friends. One day, Aly is captured by pirates and sold, seemingly at random, as a slave to a noble family of the Copper Isles, the Balitangs. Thrust into a political quagmire, Aly soon learns that her presence with this family is quite intentional. The trickster god of the Copper Isles, the seas, and the raka, Kyprioth appears to Aly and makes her a wager: Keep the Balitang eldest daughters alive to the autumn equinox, and he will safely return Aly to her family. He will even convince Aly's parents that she should be given a role in George's spy work. Aly agrees, and our adventure truly begins. With natural cleverness and years of training on weapons and spymaster tricks, Aly plunges headfirst into the politics surrounding the Balitangs. She deals in spy games, assassination plots, royal politics, matters of race and so much more. Aly quickly proves to the reader that she is no copy of Alanna reborn in a new generation. Instead of a driven, passionate woman who has to push hard earn anything like her mother, Aly is a naturally talented woman with no real goals or driving force in her life. This makes Aly a very unique, smart, compelling heroine (and for those already familiar with the Tortall books of Pierce, she is also very different from the other female protagonists featured in other books. You never read the same story over and over with Pierce's novels). The most brilliant part of this book is an attempt to tell a different story. We don't run into tropes or clich\u00e9s. Instead, we have a thickly layered collection of plots and themes. When it's hard to pin the plot of the book into a single paragraph, you know you're on the right track. We have a young woman seeking her independence, a prophecy to be fulfilled, a complicated political history of colonialism and how it is changing, court intrigues, and the mechanizations of the gods. A wonderful book that I couldn't put down, I have (in my brain) given this book on 4.5 stars. I'm rounding up for the sake of the rating system, but I sometimes found that I got bored with the descriptions of how people looked, or their clothing styles. A small price to pay for a well-crafted story that made me think critically of the world I live in. I can't wait for the next book! ...more Occasionally I see people complaining about the intense second waveyness of Tamora Pierce's books - the lady warrior, the Strong Woman characters always being coded in terms of masculine strength, physical strength, battle prowess - i.e., you are strong because you are succeeding in a traditional male role, usually at the expense of \"weak\" or \"soft\" femininity. But, I mean. Okay, yes, I cannot deny that all of TP's female characters who are worth a damn are decent in a fight (or show interest in Occasionally I see people complaining about the intense second waveyness of Tamora Pierce's books - the lady warrior, the Strong Woman characters always being coded in terms of masculine strength, physical strength, battle prowess - i.e., you are strong because you are succeeding in a traditional male role, usually at the expense of \"weak\" or \"soft\" femininity. But, I mean. Okay, yes, I cannot deny that all of TP's female characters who are worth a damn are decent in a fight (or show interest in becoming decent in a fight). And you can laugh a little at that - I know I have; it's almost like a drinking game (take a shot whenever someone who's never picked up a sword before muses that maybe she should start learning). But even Alanna and Kel, her two Lady Knights, who have to (to varying degrees) take up the trappings of masculinity to succeed embrace womanhood. And even if you're not sold on them, you can't say that Aly and Thayet and Sarai and Daine and Winnamine are ever expected to deny their femininity in order to claim their strengths. I don't know - I don't have the energy to go into a full scale women's studies essay on Tamora Pierce's feminism. I don't always think it's perfect, but I don't think anyone's is always perfect. And I really don't think it's as one-dimensional as her detractors would like to suggest. And besides, the sex positivity! It's maybe my favorite thing about Pierce's books, and certainly, I think, the bravest. I like to think that for each outraged Goodreads review about lax morality or whatever, there's a teenaged girl out there reading and realizing that her sexuality is okay, that she's allowed to want to have sex, that it's okay to look into birth control, that virginity is not necessarily to be taken lightly, but neither is it something to be hoarded and prized like it's the only thing of worth about her. Bless you and your politics, Tamora Pierce. I'm so glad I decided to catch up on all the Tortall books you've written since The Immortals quartet. (This did lose a star because I am sick to death of the boring/gross white-person-saving-the-people-of-color storyline.) ...more Trickster's Choice Trickster's Queen - Tamora Pierce One story, two books. These are also actually a follow-up to \"The Song of the Lioness\" quartet, which I haven't read. They are about the daughter of the heroine of those novels, so these do stand alone - but on the other hand, I felt that I was probably missing some of the world-background that had been drawn in the previous books. These tell the story of the 16-year-old Aly, who has grown up in her famous mother's shadow, but has also been traine Trickster's Choice Trickster's Queen - Tamora Pierce One story, two books. These are also actually a follow-up to \"The Song of the Lioness\" quartet, which I haven't read. They are about the daughter of the heroine of those novels, so these do stand alone - but on the other hand, I felt that I was probably missing some of the world-background that had been drawn in the previous books. These tell the story of the 16-year-old Aly, who has grown up in her famous mother's shadow, but has also been trained in spycraft by her father. Although she's eager to 'grow up,' her parents don't seem to want her to actually work as a spy (this is really a flaw in the book, from my perspective, because why else would they have trained her to BE a spy from early childhood?) Rebelliously, she runs away, is kidnapped by pirates and sold as a slave - but, luckily, she is Chosen by a Trickster god to become involved in an incipient rebellion on the colonial islands she is sold into. Therefore, he makes sure she is sold to the Nicest Slaveowners EVER, and she is charged with guarding their children, including two half-breed daughters who just happen to be royalty on both sides of the family. Lots of intrigue and action ensues... Fun story, with some not-too-overbearing commentary on racism, colonialism, etc, as well as some somewhat-too-obvious Advice For Young Women regarding appropriate relationships and self-respect. However, Aly is just RIDICULOUSLY competent. There's nothing she can't do, seemingly - and if there was a possibility she couldn't do it, her god-patron helps her out. Her romance (and it is a rather sweet one) proceeds without a hint of a problem... (but maybe I objected to that just because I have been feeling rather bitter about romance this month!) Quite a lot of the events are very much idealized and not very believable - but this is pretty much a fairytale, after all... ...more 4.5 stars My sister has been telling me to try Tamora Pierce for ages. I don't know what was holding me back, but I finally told her I was ready and asked which one she liked the best that I should start with. She recommended this one, Tricker's Choice. And wowza. Aly is the daughter of a famous warrior and a spy (my understanding is that her mother is the central figure in many of Pierce's books, but I didn't need to have read any of them for this to be a great read). Having been schooled in all 4.5 stars My sister has been telling me to try Tamora Pierce for ages. I don't know what was holding me back, but I finally told her I was ready and asked which one she liked the best that I should start with. She recommended this one, Tricker's Choice. And wowza. Aly is the daughter of a famous warrior and a spy (my understanding is that her mother is the central figure in many of Pierce's books, but I didn't need to have read any of them for this to be a great read). Having been schooled in all the arts of both her parents, what she wants most is for the exciting part of her life to begin. It certainly does, but NOT in the way she would necessarily have chosen. She soon ends up as a slave in a household on the edge of some crazy royal intrigue and it doesn't take long until her skills are recognized as incredibly useful. With a God directing her to protect the daughters of this family and a fantastical crow-boy watching her back, Aly's involvement in the politics of her new home will force her use every trick she was ever taught to help those she cares about to survive. Talk about girl-power! Aly is a powerful heroine, headstrong and capable. The world she lives in has so much magic in it, its history so rich. I will say that it took me a few chapters to feel like I wasn't drowning in information and if ONLY I had noticed the cast of characters and glossary at the end! I didn't find it until I was finished reading! It would've helped - this is a LAYERED fantasy with a large cast of characters, both human and creature. Once I felt settled in, I didn't want to put it down. Period. Awesome fighting, awesome intrigue, awesome tension, great little romantic thread that I hope to see explored in the next book. I must know what happens next. Yes, I have already requested it from the library. ...more At my friend Bridget's emphatic insistence, I checked this one out from the library. She neglected to mention that the \"Daughter\" series comes at the END of the Tortall stories. :P Nevertheless, this book was thoroughly enjoyable. As the eleventy-bazillionth reviewer here, I don't think I need to provide another plot summary, so suffice to say that this is one of those books that prove YA doesn't have to mean \"less than.\" It's definitely convinced me to finish the Trickster books, and then probab At my friend Bridget's emphatic insistence, I checked this one out from the library. She neglected to mention that the \"Daughter\" series comes at the END of the Tortall stories. :P Nevertheless, this book was thoroughly enjoyable. As the eleventy-bazillionth reviewer here, I don't think I need to provide another plot summary, so suffice to say that this is one of those books that prove YA doesn't have to mean \"less than.\" It's definitely convinced me to finish the Trickster books, and then probably go back and read Tortall from the beginning. Some thoughts on characterization: The main character, Aly, is a different sort of badass female than we usually get to read. While she can handle herself in a fight, it is Aly's keen eye for detail, sharp instincts, and ability to make herself disappear into the background that serve her best. She is very self-assured, especially for someone so young and untested, but I did not find her so cocky as to be off-putting. The supporting characters were presented with sympathy and complexity. Dove and Nawat were my favorites, and I love how Aly and Kyprioth interact. Some random thematic commentary: - I liked how Aly was aware of her body and her sexuality as belonging to her, but without being prudish. Early in the book, she makes a mental comment to the gist of \"I hadn't decided what to do about my virginity, but I knew I didn't want [specific thing to happen].\" - There are some unfortunate \"white savior\" overtones, but for the most part, the interactions between the luarin (white conquerer) and raka (PoC native) races are presented realistically and sensitively. - \"Cushy slavery\" is portrayed, but it is specified in the text that this arrangement is the exception, rather than the rule. ...more<---C>Tamora Pierce</---C>", "Title": "Trickster's Choice"},
