{"Comments": "A war in hell, for the fate of hell? What? Is this a Culture novel,<---M> one of huge Space Operatic dimensions</---M>, Ship Mega-Minds, nearly ascendant alien cultures and encroaching afterlifes? Wait. Afterlife? Sure! Virtual hells made for elephantine aliens with enormous virtual wars to take up their attention so it doesn't have to spill over into the real. It's civilized, don't you know? Of course, you can't say that for the people being TORTURED FOR ETERNITY within them. *sigh* This one happens to be my abs A war in hell, for the fate of hell? What? Is this a Culture novel, one of huge Space Operatic dimensions, Ship Mega-Minds, nearly ascendant alien cultures and encroaching afterlifes? Wait. Afterlife? Sure! Virtual hells made for elephantine aliens with enormous virtual wars to take up their attention so it doesn't have to spill over into the real. It's civilized, don't you know? Of course, you can't say that for the people being TORTURED FOR ETERNITY within them. *sigh* This one happens to be my absolute favorite of all the Culture Novels. I haven't read the 10th yet, but it's going to have to work double-time to beat this one. I love all the characters, from the Eccentric Drones to the debt-enslaved victim of hell and her lover of oh so tragic fate. (Learning how to become a demon to escape the victim's-fate is pretty tragic, after all.) And through this, the Culture sits and watches and makes noises that they'll never get involved in other species's conflicts unless ordered by Culture, proper, and yet they always seem to find ways to stick their noses in and make epic struggles and full-blown wars out of molehills.<---F> Got to love it</---F>. :) War For Hell! And as always, the ironic humor of the ships, their names, and the situations is all sheer delight. :) I mean, after all, the setting is, in fact, in an Elephant's Graveyard. :) Lol. Great stuff! ...more <---A>Iain M. Banks</---A> was taken away from us too soon. He was a genius of prose, structure, characterization and all kinds of SFnal ideas (by all accounts his mainstream fiction \u2013 published under the name of Iain Banks with no M \u2013 is also so great). Reading Iain M. Banks is more challenging than most sci-fi authors though, his novel\u2019s structure and plotline are often very complex, byzantine even; but the reader\u2019s effort is always rewarded. With <+++>Surface Detail</+++> Banks takes about 70 pages to set up the pie Iain M. Banks was taken away from us too soon. He was a genius of prose, structure, characterization and all kinds of SFnal ideas (by all accounts his mainstream fiction \u2013 published under the name of Iain Banks with no M \u2013 is also so great). Reading Iain M. Banks is more challenging than most sci-fi authors though, his novel\u2019s structure and plotline are often very complex, byzantine even; but the reader\u2019s effort is always rewarded. With <+++>Surface Detail</+++> Banks takes about 70 pages to set up the pieces and introduce the characters before the narrative settles down enough for me to familiarize myself with the characters and the situation. Having said that, the first few chapters are immediately interesting though a little perplexing. In this early section of the book Banks introduces quite a few point of view protagonists in mysterious and weird locations. Banks clears up most of the perplexities by gradually unfolding his more outlandish ideas without the expositions reading like dry infodumps. As with most Culture books there are multiple plot strands that Banks skillfully juggles and gradually weave together. The main plotline is to do with \u201cHell\u201d, which is a virtual environment where digitized mind-states (consciousness) of dead people (souls of sorts) are put into perpetual punishment. The virtual Hell depicted in Surface Detail where one of the protagonists spend her time is indeed a very miserable and violent place where death is not an end to the torment as it is immediately followed by reactivation. In spite of the very dark theme the novel is at times very humorous. The humour mainly comes from the dialogue and behavior of the Minds, the uber AI that controls the Culture civilization. I can't show you examples of the more comical moments out of context though. There is a large element of cyberpunk in this book. Fans of Neuromancer and Altered Carbon should find a lot to enjoy in this book. If Redshirts or The Martian represent your preferred flavor of sci-fi this book may not suit you. Beside great characters, ideas, humour, prose and dialogue, Banks is also brilliant with nomenclatures, the very long ship names and drone names are awesome yet subtly meaningful. If I have one complaint it would be that the pace sags a little after the half-way point of the book, especially as one character is negotiating to buy a top of the line spaceship. However, the novel\u2019s pace soon picks up again, in fact one confrontation scene between a protagonist and her arch enemy almost had me jump out of my seat. Surface Detail is highly recommended for anyone who enjoys Banks\u2019 Culture series books, I am not sure it is the best entry point into the series, The Player of Games would be better for that I think. I already bought Look to Windward so I am looking forward to that. ...more How do I love thee, Culture universe? Let me count the ways by playing-- Culture bingo! Awesome tech: check For starters, we have the standard fare of neural laces, AIs, drug glands, etc etc, everything that makes the Culture a level 8 civ. Today's main course is a Bulbitian, an ancient ship and a talking singularity. For desert, have a virtual Hell. Oh my. Cool aliens: sorta-check A clear majority of pan-human players this time, but you gotta love the GFCF. Plus, the Pavuleans are like...elephants o How do I love thee, Culture universe? Let me count the ways by playing-- Culture bingo! Awesome tech: check For starters, we have the standard fare of neural laces, AIs, drug glands, etc etc, everything that makes the Culture a level 8 civ. Today's main course is a Bulbitian, an ancient ship and a talking singularity. For desert, have a virtual Hell. Oh my. Cool aliens: sorta-check A clear majority of pan-human players this time, but you gotta love the GFCF. Plus, the Pavuleans are like...elephants or something? I can't quite remember. Best AIs in science fiction: check The Culture ships will never not be amazing. And funny. Oh to be on a GSV just once. Humour: check Demeisen, anyone? Banks should get awards for the way writes human/machine interaction. (Minor niggle: Not enough drones this time!) Physics I don't get: check Come on. There's a Talking. SINGULARITY. Boom. Unputdownable: BINGO. Also, if you, like me, have a habit of browsing the final pages of a book before you're even half-way through? DON'T. Not this time! Or if you must, don't look at the final word of the book. (HOW'S THIS FOR PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE). I, for one, didn't, so I didn't see it coming, and my jaw dropped about a mile. Now to read it again, knowing what I do. Loved this. Despite some slow bits and some characters whose purpose still isn't clear to me (e.g. Yime), I still worship at Banks's altar. ...more Well, it was better than 'Matter'. But to me at least, Banks flaws are really beginning to start to irritate. Banks seems completely unwilling to let anything actually challenge his precious 'Culture'. The typical story arc is to develop some sort of nominally galaxy threatening challenge to the Culture, which, near the end of the book, he'll reveal to be pathetically overmatched by the most trivial exercise of Culture might which arrives to aid the protagonist in all of its omnipotent dues ex ma Well, it was better than 'Matter'. But to me at least, Banks flaws are really beginning to start to irritate. Banks seems completely unwilling to let anything actually challenge his precious 'Culture'. The typical story arc is to develop some sort of nominally galaxy threatening challenge to the Culture, which, near the end of the book, he'll reveal to be pathetically overmatched by the most trivial exercise of Culture might which arrives to aid the protagonist in all of its omnipotent dues ex machina glory right at the end thereby killing the tension he developed so carefully as easily as it kills the mustachioed scenery chomping one dimensional villains. I mean seriously, Banks would hardly be less transparent if he had Gandalf riding in on the back of some giant eagles. I know what Tolkien is trying to say, but what is Banks trying to say? Banks stories have become so stagnant and the Culture so impervious to change, that I'm beginning to really sympathize with the in story Sublimed that think the Culture needs to get out of perpetual adolescence and finish growing up. Can't we do at least one story that isn't a zero sum game? I mean these are novels written by one of the greats of modern science fiction, and not episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation. At least, I think that they are. Is this 'Culture' really an end state past which no thought is possible? Can't anything even shake their apparently untouchable assumptions? The stories are even beginning to undermine themselves. Supposedly the Idrian War left half the ship Minds involved in it suffering from some cybernetic Post-Traumatic stress disorder and that's been hitherto one of the series major themes; but, it doesn't seem to me like the current generation of Culture Minds is going to have that problem given the relish that they now have for killing things. Is that or is that not positive more civilized growth in The Culture's perspective indicative of a maturing civilization? And at what point is Banks going to end up being as unreflective as the writers of 'The Authority' comic books? I couldn't tell whether or not Banks was deliberately opening up more and more about the true second class citizen status of humans in the Culture in this book deliberately, or whether the fact that the minds really deep down don't consider humanity to be anything more than beloved, potentially disposable pets (not really persons the way Ships are) had ceased to bother him. And for all the fact that he's getting more explicit in his comparisons to the culture and its enemies to modern political systems or beliefs, he seems for me to be more and more deeply muddling his utopia vs. dystopia comparisons. Is that deliberate, or has he simply ceased to question his own framework? The more he travels from his initial point of humans and AI's working as legal and moral and even in some cases utilitarian equals to humanity as beloved pet, the more lie it gives to the understanding of the characters in the story to how their world actually works. Take the 'given' in the story that the Culture has no currency. We are told again and again that the Culture has evolved past the need for currency. But if you actually try to examine the text to find out how the seemingly informal currencyless, lawless system actually works you soon realize that it is currencyless and lawless only from the human perspective. Much as the family dog may believe that he lives in a communist utopia of share and share alike when really the dog just simply isn't allowed to use the credit card, the humans in the Culture live in a world with a strictly defined currency - they just aren't allowed to own any of it. Granted, humans don\u2019t exactly use their resources wisely, but is Banks saying that what we really need to do is submit ourselves and our resources wholly to the whims of benevolent, omnipotent, and omniscient beings? As best as I can tell, the actual currency of the culture, by which I mean the tokens by which labor is allocated in case anyone doesn\u2019t know what money actually is, is the esteem held by the Minds. Now, in humans, 'esteem' is an abstract concept that can't be usefully traded on. But it's quite clear from the nature of Minds, that abstract concepts are in fact concrete, definable, quantifiable and can be traded on. The Minds in fact appear to conduct economic business under an entrepreneurial free market. It's either that, or else there is a central planning committee out there that can order other minds to exert their labor to create 2000 of these half-psychotic high-tech macho warships according to a standard design. As best as I can tell, ordering minds around would be like herding cats, and there is certainly no evidence of a central planning committee. What is really going on isn't communism, it's a free market barter economy tokenized by concrete measurements of esteem and favor that can be traded and probably even speculated on. The real economy is no more something humans are allowed to participate in than they are allowed to understand the way the Culture's actual legal system works. Humans participate in the real economy only in the way that a dog that fetches his master\u2019s slippers and doesn\u2019t doodoo on the bed may get a bigger bone in his Christmas stocking. I\u2019m not sure that it is exactly capitalism except maybe as idealized version with near infinite buyers and sellers possessing near omniscience, but it\u2019s certainly not communism either. I can\u2019t actually tell if Banks realizes that, or if he honestly believes that that all it would take is genetically reengineering humanity, producing cybernetic demigods of near infallible reason, and putting them in possession a nearly infinite supply of energy and materials to actually make communism work. Because, if it is the latter, then I\u2019m not sure whether that constitutes a damning condemnation of communism as an economic system, or the thinnest attempt at justifying continuing to adhere to a failed murderous ideology since Holocaust denial. Incidentally, the legal system is described as a \u2018Court of Public Opinion\u2019 but apparently actually also quantifiable by similar measures of esteem and some sort of common law framework so that judgments and opinions can actually be measured or discarded to produce a final binding result. The closest modern legal system to it would appear to be Shia Islam\u2019s kritarchy system. Which, I find really ironic. Don\u2019t get me started on Banks exploration of religion. Anyway, I enjoyed all the deep onion-like layers of the book and the fact that they didn't seem to have a bottom, but just for a while I'd like the narrator voice in the story to be actually as mature and complex as Banks story seems to be. Here\u2019s to hoping that something will actually happen in the Culture in the future and we\u2019ll get a chance to see a conflict that can\u2019t be resolved by remorselessly and effortlessly blowing things up. ...more When one rates an audiobook, is one rating the quality of the underlying written work, the quality of the audio version, or both? I suppose I'll just clarify that my five-star rating applies to both in this case. Surface Detail is the latest of the Culture Novels from Iain M. Banks . The wait for this one was worth it. I think I'm ready to say that Use of Weapons has finally been supplanted as the best of the Culture books. I'll write a proper review of Surface Detail , the book, after I've read the When one rates an audiobook, is one rating the quality of the underlying written work, the quality of the audio version, or both? I suppose I'll just clarify that my five-star rating applies to both in this case. Surface Detail is the latest of the Culture Novels from Iain M. Banks . The wait for this one was worth it. I think I'm ready to say that Use of Weapons has finally been supplanted as the best of the Culture books. I'll write a proper review of Surface Detail , the book, after I've read the hardcopy. For now I'll make a couple of points. First, I love how the shock and consequences of the Idiran War continue to resonate across 1,500 years of Culture history. Fascinating stuff. How long will the shock of World War II resonate across our world's history? It seems that, only 65 years after WWII's conclusion, the shock is dissipating fairly rapidly at this point. Second, this book keeps you going until, literally, the very last word of the epilogue. Obviously, I can't say here what that last word is without hitting the spoiler box. Let's simply say that the last word is worth waiting for, that it imparts a great deal of meaning to the rest of the book, a book already quite full of meaning. Well, maybe I should clarify that the last word imparts meaning to those of us who are Culture fans and have read a certain prior Culture book. Again, I can't say which book, or you might figure out what that last word is, which in turn would spoil some of Surface Detail . About the audiobook, specifically: Surface Detail is read by my one of my favorite narrators, Peter Kenny. He's a master of voices; at times it seems that each character is being read by a different actor/narrator, but it's all just him. Peter Kenny also read the Transition audiobook, for those interested, and my comments about him in that review apply with equal force here. Peter Kenny's voice and tone sound very much like the book would sound in my head were I reading hardcopy. He and Iain Banks are a match made in heaven. I have since listened to Peter Kenny's readings of Consider Phlebas and Player of Games and, I think, my ears have a man crush. I suppose, then, I can't recommend Surface Detail , in hardcopy or audio format, strongly enough to those of you who share my love of good sci-fi. Happy listening! ...more First things first: does anyone else picture Demeisen as David Tennant? Gaunt, gangling, fast-talking, humorous, with a tendency to switch within moments from cheerful to scarily intense, and with a jaunty enthusiasm for sharing viewpoints that...uh...have a tendency to fall outside the usual moral constraints? Every time Demeisen talked, I heard David Tennant. Now the actual plot. Surface Detail centers around the concept of afterlives, and hell--well, hells-- in particular. Many \"civilized\" cul First things first: does anyone else picture Demeisen as David Tennant? Gaunt, gangling, fast-talking, humorous, with a tendency to switch within moments from cheerful to scarily intense, and with a jaunty enthusiasm for sharing viewpoints that...uh...have a tendency to fall outside the usual moral constraints? Every time Demeisen talked, I heard David Tennant. Now the actual plot. Surface Detail centers around the concept of afterlives, and hell--well, hells-- in particular. Many \"civilized\" cultures had some basis for hell in their faiths, and when digital afterlives became a reality, they projected these beliefs onto the new realities. Without Hell, they argue, there is no moral center, no consequence for evil actions. Other civilizations--the Culture in particular--consider the idea of entombing sentient beings into eternal torment to be barbaric. And this is something that the reader, presumably, agrees with. But the interesting aspect, to my mind, is the logical extension into the Judeo-Christian belief system: if it's not okay to lock people up in Hell for all eternity, (1) why do we believe a loving God would do it, and (2) if we have some doubt about the reality of our own Hell, is it morally acceptable to threaten to people with that fate? How can we accept that an ultimate being would perform an act we find so repulsive in the virtual? The major distinction between our world and the one Banks creates--and one that Banks doesn't even discuss--is the power of the decision. Hell becomes marginally acceptable in the believer's mind because the ultimate decision is made by an all-perfect, all-knowing, all-forgiving(ish) God. But if your Hell is a piece of software, how can any fallible panhuman have the right to send someone there? And then there's Interesting Issue Number Two, which again goes mostly unexplored by Banks but which, despite its familiarity, kept me fully preoccupied during the reading of the book: do the ends justify the means? Battlelines have been drawn up between the pro-Hell and anti-Hell factions, virtual battles rage throughout the afterlives, and Hell is winning the war. So the anti-Hell side decides to cheat, and, when all else fails, forswear their oaths and bring battle to the Real. The question: how is that possibly okay? Does the noble task of freeing the inmates of Hell overturn the respect for the rules? If the pro-Hell faction decided to cheat, we would see them as despicable. So why do we accept it when the good guys betray morality? The sum total of recrimination the pro-Hell guys receive is about a page's worth, but the irony echoes throughout the book. The ideas of Surface Detail are fascinating; the plot and characters, not so much. The whole plot seems to me to be a vehicle for the ideas, to the point that I don't think Banks ever looked back and realized just how futile the characters' actions actually are. Looking back, I think there is exactly one character with meaningful agency in events: Demeisen. Who is awesome, in a David-Tennantish variety of creepy-but-awesome, or possibly awesome-but-creepy. Everyone else? (view spoiler) [Let's go down the list. --Lededje: we spend most of the time hearing about her as a victim, and then she comes up with a half-baked, ill-conceived idea to kill Veppers (and to throw recriminations at her lover), which requires assistance from basically everyone around her, which is foiled by the Culture saying no , and which is sort of reinstituted only with their help. And even then, she is an abject failure and would be dead if Demeisen didn't use trickery (which completely passed her by) to save her life. She is a victim; she is incompetent; she is utterly, utterly without agency, before or after her \"escape\" from Veppers. --Jasken: grow a spine. He could have done something, but was too conditioned and too constrained by duty to a madman to actually do much of anything. --Yime: seriously, what is the point of Yime, other than to be a casualty of all the various pieces of violence around? As far as I could tell, she didn't even make it past Veppers. Just another victim who is traumatized and injured over and over and over. --Chay: wow, that whole sequence is just wrong . I understand that Chay basically exists to give us the viewpoint of Hell, but she is so passive, so utterly broken, that her her entire storyline feels like yet another victimization, the wallowing in the abject misery of a character broken before the story even starts. She has the least agency of any character in the story, and that's saying something. --Prin: For all that his storyline seemed promising, the whole Pavulean court bit turned out to be utterly moot, making his sacrifice and agony ultimately pointless. His sacrifice--and Chay's--was ultimately utterly futile. --Vatueil: wow, those sections were a drag. We're introduced to him when he gets caught and snitches on his cohort, then goes batshit and kills everyone at random. Hardly endearing, and in my opinion, it doesn't get much better from there. Ultimately, his actions are pretty futile as well, given that Veppers was already in the scheme to bomb out the hells. Also, I didn't like Zakalwe before, and this book did nothing to endear him to me. (hide spoiler) ] And the villain of the piece is so utterly one-dimensionally evil that his very presence strips the book of nuance and complexity. In the end, only the Minds have real roles in the plot, which, given some of the issues brought up, may be the intent. I have no idea if Banks was attempting to show the flaws in the Culture or if he genuinely thought their way of doing things is the best way. A few things that come out in this book: first of all, as one of the Minds cheerfully explains to Yime, Minds' lives mean more than human or drone. So everyone in the Culture is equal; it's just that ship Minds are more equal than others. And then there's the socioeconomic side. As another Mind tells Lededje, while SC has been known to off people at will, power and influence make them hesitate. Power and influence make their deeds have consequence in a way that simple life does not. And then there's the touted Culture \"Court of Public Opinion.,\" where decisions regarding right and wrong are decided via peer pressure and social norms. It's absolutely not a democracy: as the Minds carefully point out, different groups' opinions have different weights, with Minds, of course, holding the lion's share. Again, everyone is equal, but some are more equal than others. Majority and \"gentlemen's agreements\" have been proxy to law for much of history, often notably in times of horrific injustice. Such concepts of honor were highly respected in the American South, for instance, and few saw hypocrisy in maintaining honor with one's peers and enslavement of one's subordinates. And that's leaving out the issues of popularity, presentation, skew, and every other aspect of communication that turns objective fact into subjective experience. Before you assume that openness equals fairness, remember some of the great internet pile-ons and lynching sessions that turned out to be completely unjustified. Whenever anyone starts touting the fairness of the court of public opinion, I get a bad taste in my mouth. Every scifi author eventually seems compelled to write a book challenging religion and the constraints it puts upon society, and Banks' contribution is certainly thought-provoking. Even though its characters and plot may be superficial, the ideas and questions of Surface Detail have depths worth fathoming. ...more It begins in the realm of the Real, where matter still matters. Iain M. Banksov Culture serijal me je odu\u0161evio ve\u0107 od prvog romana Consider Phlebas. Uvijek mi je trebalo malo da \"u\u0111em\" u svaki roman, ali \u0161to sam dalje otkrivao Culture svijet mi je bio sve zanimljiviji, a Culture civilizacija mi je postala omiljena utopija. Vjerovatno je i jedina koja bi i mogla opstati jer u njoj ljudi nisu bitan faktor pa ni ne mogu dovesti do korupcije sistema i njegovog pada. Culture civilizacijom vladaju Mind It begins in the realm of the Real, where matter still matters. Iain M. Banksov Culture serijal me je odu\u0161evio ve\u0107 od prvog romana Consider Phlebas. Uvijek mi je trebalo malo da \"u\u0111em\" u svaki roman, ali \u0161to sam dalje otkrivao Culture svijet mi je bio sve zanimljiviji, a Culture civilizacija mi je postala omiljena utopija. Vjerovatno je i jedina koja bi i mogla opstati jer u njoj ljudi nisu bitan faktor pa ni ne mogu dovesti do korupcije sistema i njegovog pada. Culture civilizacijom vladaju Minds (kako i samo ime ka\u017ee Umovi) koji su u\u010ditani u ogromne brodove ili Orbitale - rijetko gdje Culture gra\u0111ani \u017eive na planetima, ve\u0107ina je na ogromnim brodovima i svi \u017eive u blagostanju. Nema novca, gladi, a resursi su gotovo neograni\u010deni. Naravno, tu onda nema ni drame pa je radnja svakog romana iz serijala van Culture civilizacije, na planetima gdje ne vlada takvo blagostanje. I naravno kroz svaki taj scenarij Iain M. Banks se obra\u010dunavao, odnosno pokazivao nam na\u0161e moralne i op\u0107enito civilizacijske nedostatke. Uz to, uvijek je uspio stvoriti i zanimljive i jake likove, nerijetko su mi najzanimljiviji likovi bili dronovi (inteligentni \"strojevi\", koji jedva skrivaju prijezir prema ljudima, i nerijetko ih podbadaju svojim britkim humorom i zajedljivim dosjetkama). Surface Detail je predzadnji Culture roman i mo\u017eda sam i zato, barem nesvjesno, odugovla\u010dio, jer je Iain M. Banks umro sredinom 2013., pa ima jo\u0161 samo jedan roman i onda moram napustiti taj svemir. U svakom novom Culture romanu se detaljnije otkriva neki dio tog svemira, ovdje je najve\u0107i fokus na virtualnim svjetovima, koji su univerzumi za sebe, od raznih verzija Pakla, do bojnih polja sa virtualnim ratovima kojima se odlu\u010duju sudbine cijelih civilizacija u Stvarnom svemiru (The Real). Ovaj roman mi je najslabiji u serijalu. Matter , prethodni roman, izvukao je odli\u010dan kraj, a rasplet ovoga, iako zadovoljavaju\u0107i, ostavio me bez osje\u0107aja odu\u0161evljenja. Banks pi\u0161e dobro, iz svakog romana se mo\u017ee izvu\u0107i mnogo zanimljivih citata, ali mi ga je ponekad i te\u0161ko pratiti jer su mu neke re\u010denice nezgrapne ili jednostavno preduge. Sama radnja mi nije bila toliko zanimljiva, a i likovi me nisu zainteresirali kao u prethodnim romanima. To mo\u017ee biti i zbog toga \u0161to sam roman \u010ditao gotovo punih godinu dana, sa duga\u010dkom pauzom od nekoliko mjeseci nakon pro\u010ditanih prvih 15%. Tako\u0111er malo kriti\u010dnije ocjenjujem otkad pi\u0161em i ove osvrte, tako da ovome ide \u010detvorka, i to slaba. ...more If you\u2019re not already a citizen \u2013 if only in dreams \u2013 of the Culture then Surface Detail is not your path to naturalization. This is not to say that this isn\u2019t a worthy part of the Culture mythology \u2013 it is. I enjoyed reading it, meeting a few more of the Culture\u2019s citizens and learning a bit more about how its nonhierarchic, anarcho-communist civilization works. But that may be why non-Culture aficionados shouldn\u2019t start off with this book. It\u2019s heavy with unexplained Culture jargon (e.g., Subl If you\u2019re not already a citizen \u2013 if only in dreams \u2013 of the Culture then Surface Detail is not your path to naturalization. This is not to say that this isn\u2019t a worthy part of the Culture mythology \u2013 it is. I enjoyed reading it, meeting a few more of the Culture\u2019s citizens and learning a bit more about how its nonhierarchic, anarcho-communist civilization works. But that may be why non-Culture aficionados shouldn\u2019t start off with this book. It\u2019s heavy with unexplained Culture jargon (e.g., Sublimed races, the Ulteriors, Special Circumstances, the Idiran War); info dumps appear but they\u2019re about new aspects of the milieu (e.g., Quietus, Restoria, the Nauptre Reliquaria and the Gespetian-Fardesile Cultural Federacy (mercifully shorted to GFCF)) and won\u2019t help the novice. The best introductions to the Culture are still the earlier novels like Consider Phlebas and The Player of Games (my favorite). Surface Detail takes up the Culture\u2019s stance toward death and what happens to your \u201csoul\u201d when you die. Even the less advanced space-faring civilizations of the galaxy have the technology to store the brain states of their citizens. The Culture uses such tech to back up personalities that can be downloaded into new bodies (\u201crevented\u201d) whether in the event of death or simply because a person is tired of the current incarnation. Other civilizations, however, more religiously minded than the Culture, have created virtual Heavens and Hells to which their members migrate upon death. At the time the book opens, a virtual war (a \u201cconfliction\u201d) has been waged for 30 real-time years between coalitions of pro-Hell civs and anti-Hell civs to decide the Hells\u2019 ultimate fate. The anti-Hell forces are losing and plot to bring the confliction into the Real by destroying the physical substrates where the virtual Hells are hosted. The Culture, anti-Hell by nature and sympathy, has held aloof from the \u201cwar in Heaven\u201d because it had been felt, at the war\u2019s beginning, that its presence would have overbalanced the forces in play and made the anti-Hell coalition\u2019s victory a surety. This doesn\u2019t mean that the usual Culture suspects - i.e., Special Circumstances \u2013 aren\u2019t trying to manipulate a win for the anti-Hell forces. The existential dilemma for the Culture (at least for its biological citizens) is to live lives of meaning and consequence. Most manage to find some hobby or role that satisfies this need. Others find satisfaction by joining Contact (the lucky ones getting invited to join Contact\u2019s black-ops bastard offspring Special Circumstances) or similar organizations (like Quietus). For the less group oriented, there\u2019s always the options of the Ulteriors or the Forgotten. There\u2019s a constant tension between not interfering with other civs and juggling affairs so that its neighbors come closer to the Culture\u2019s ideal. Against this backdrop, Banks weaves together the stories of six characters: Vatueil, a leader of the anti-Hell forces whose real identity links this novel to Use of Weapons (which is as spoilerish as I\u2019ll get in this review; read the book to find out who); Prin and Chay, two inmates of one of the Hells; Joiler Veppers, the principal \u201cbad guy\u201d: Yime Nsokyi, a Quietus agent; and Lededje Y\u2019breq, Veppers\u2019 former slave. There\u2019s a host of secondary characters as well, including Jasken, Veppers\u2019 chief of security and the Culture Minds Me, I\u2019m Counting (avatar Himerance) and Falling Outside The Normal Moral Constraints (aka FOTNMC, avatar Demeisen). As I mentioned, I enjoyed this novel but I can\u2019t help but feel that it would have been better focusing on fewer characters \u2013 I would opt for Lededje and Yime \u2013 and exploring the issue of death a bit more deeply. A case in point is the Veppers\u2019 thread: He\u2019s a disappointing villain because he\u2019s a one-dimensional, mustache twirling figure. You know he\u2019s loathsome and Banks piles on the loathsomeness until Veppers becomes a parody. Another weakness chronic to the series is that humans are often just gilding \u2013 the super advanced tech of the Culture makes its biological citizens irrelevant. Which Banks recognizes: There\u2019s a short subplot about the Culture\u2019s efforts to contain a smatter outbreak* where Auppi Unstril, the human \u201cpilot,\u201d acknowledges that her presence aboard the ship limits its effectiveness. She\u2019s there because it\u2019s exciting, something to do and will make a real difference as opposed to a virtual adventure. Or that the FOTNMC single-handedly takes on the entire GFCF fleet and wins \u2013 and the FOTNMC is just a Limited Offensive Unit. Or that Lededje is murdered, resurrected and spends a good chunk of the novel trying to return to her homeworld to murder Veppers, only to have Demeisen deliver the coup de gr\u00e2ce. Banks is at his best when exploring the motivations of the Culture\u2019s biological citizens or those who are reacting to its presence in their lives, and I think the book would have been better had he stuck more with Lededje and Yime. I think with the last few Culture novels, Banks has been more focused on having fun with his universe than seriously exploring weightier themes, even though \u2013 as the jacket blurb says \u2013 \u201cand it will not end until the Culture has gone to war with death itself.\u201d He only tangentially raises the issues of consciousness and the meaning of death, and that\u2019s primarily in the Prin/Chay thread, where the implicit conclusion is that the virtual Hells are cheats. They are constructed versions of what a particular species thinks is Heaven or Hell. Their denizens, copies of individuals whose \u201creal\u201d souls (whatever those might be) are forever lost to the perceptions of non-Sublimed cultures (and even then\u2026). To sum up, while Banks is more than capable of serious fiction, if you\u2019re looking to find an in-depth exploration of consciousness (a la Blindsight ) and life and death, you won\u2019t find it here. You\u2019ll also be disappointed if this is your first Culture exposure since you\u2019ll need some background to fully understand what\u2019s happening. However, if you\u2019re already into the Culture and/or Banks, I think you\u2019ll enjoy his latest space opera. In terms of quality, it falls somewhere in the middle of the spectrum \u2013 I liked it more than Matter or Look to Windward but not as much as his more focused, weightier efforts like Consider Phlebas or The Player of Games . ...more I'm a big Banks fan in both of his incarnations. He's one of the giants for me, of SF and plain fiction in general. As with all the Culture novels he has the outstanding Culture 'mythos' backdrop to the story and like all his books he mixes original ideas with a range of characters that evoke sympathy and dislike in the reader, sometimes in the same character. This book has a brilliant central idea (do read this to find out what it is) and several threads to the plot-line. Now this where a lot o I'm a big Banks fan in both of his incarnations. He's one of the giants for me, of SF and plain fiction in general. As with all the Culture novels he has the outstanding Culture 'mythos' backdrop to the story and like all his books he mixes original ideas with a range of characters that evoke sympathy and dislike in the reader, sometimes in the same character. This book has a brilliant central idea (do read this to find out what it is) and several threads to the plot-line. Now this where a lot of writers mess up - too many strands and a dislocation for the reader from the narrative - Banks manages this well in most of his books but in this one I was a little disappointed with the lack of development of one or two characters. Hence the 3 stars and not 4 rating. However, it's still very enjoyable and a welcome return for the Culture. ...more Wow! The first three quarters of this book are so stunning in the sheer scale of their creativity while managing to move the plot along at a more than acceptable pace. My head swam every time I put the book down, and most of the time I was only putting it down in order to allow my tiny brain to catch up with the depth, the detail, and the creative heights that this book reaches, and also to absorb and reflect on the consequences of some of the concepts and customs he introduces. The characters ar Wow! The first three quarters of this book are so stunning in the sheer scale of their creativity while managing to move the plot along at a more than acceptable pace. My head swam every time I put the book down, and most of the time I was only putting it down in order to allow my tiny brain to catch up with the depth, the detail, and the creative heights that this book reaches, and also to absorb and reflect on the consequences of some of the concepts and customs he introduces. The characters are, as always, utterly convincing. I can think of no other author who can create such deeply technical and outre worlds, technology and people, while staying as relaxed and smirkingly amusing as Banks seems to do in such an off-hand way! There were times, such as during the introduction to the virtual Hells, that I found myself with a lump in my throat and a tear in my eye, and had to go sit quietly and consider the subtexts being delivered to me. Banks has been going through a very purple patch with his last few sci-fi novels in my opinion, with this one even managing a quick nod to a previous classic of his at the conclusion, and he shows very little sign of letting up any time soon. This is fine by me! I wrestled with giving this only four stars as I think this novel does plateau towards the end, but given the overall standard of this work that would be churlish, like complaining that Macbeth's not quite up to the standards of Othello! Greatest-living-science-fiction-author, I urge you to read him! ...more I am taking a break from Iain M. Banks, I have decided. To be precise, I decided this about halfway through this book, when the meandering plot and lots of torture (not approval of torture, but lots of it) were taking their toll. I stand by that. I was initially thinking of it as a permanent break, but the end of Surface Detail somehow convinced me that while I might need a break, perhaps even of a year or two, I may come back and finish off the Culture novels at some point. Note: The rest of th I am taking a break from Iain M. Banks, I have decided. To be precise, I decided this about halfway through this book, when the meandering plot and lots of torture (not approval of torture, but lots of it) were taking their toll. I stand by that. I was initially thinking of it as a permanent break, but the end of Surface Detail somehow convinced me that while I might need a break, perhaps even of a year or two, I may come back and finish off the Culture novels at some point. Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Another excellent installment in what's probably my favorite ongoing SF series. Banks plays with themes of life, death, illusion and virtual reality, in a number of permutations and twists that's dizzying right from the beginning. There's more sheer old-fashioned sense of wonder in this book than you can shake a stick at. Some of the story lines are painfully intimate, others relate to the galaxy-wide politics of the \"In-Play\" civilizations, one of which is the post-scarcity Mind-run Culture we' Another excellent installment in what's probably my favorite ongoing SF series. Banks plays with themes of life, death, illusion and virtual reality, in a number of permutations and twists that's dizzying right from the beginning. There's more sheer old-fashioned sense of wonder in this book than you can shake a stick at. Some of the story lines are painfully intimate, others relate to the galaxy-wide politics of the \"In-Play\" civilizations, one of which is the post-scarcity Mind-run Culture we've all come to know and love. Also, the epilogue provides a delicious little twist that connects Surface Detail to a previous book in the series. I'll write a longer, full-length review later, but for now I'd say this is a very strong addition to a superb series. 4.5 stars. ...more Surface Detail is a 5-star interesting story with a 3-star ending. It suffers from a degree of the lack of follow-through inflicting other Culture novels. However, most of the major themes did come together in the end, so it wasn't bad. Heck, the first half was so captivating and invigorating, full of interesting situations and characters to love and hate, I even went on record as hopeful for a top 5 SF novel. But, alas, no. INTRODUCTION: Iain M. Banks' early Culture books, \"Use of Weapons\", \"Consider Phlebas\" and \"The Player of Games\" as well as the standalone \"Against a Dark Background\" are among my top sff books of all time, with \"Use of Weapons\" (which I hope to review by year-end) still at #1 after 18 years since my first read and many re-reads in the meantime. Last year's Transition was my number 1 sff novel of the year and this year Surface Detail will be most likely #1 sff of the year. Actually as structure g INTRODUCTION: Iain M. Banks' early Culture books, \"Use of Weapons\", \"Consider Phlebas\" and \"The Player of Games\" as well as the standalone \"Against a Dark Background\" are among my top sff books of all time, with \"Use of Weapons\" (which I hope to review by year-end) still at #1 after 18 years since my first read and many re-reads in the meantime. Last year's Transition was my number 1 sff novel of the year and this year Surface Detail will be most likely #1 sff of the year. Actually as structure goes, Transition was a pretty complex novel that required at least one reread for full appreciation, while Surface Detail is straightforward, though of course rereading it brings a fuller appreciation. Surface Detail is also a Culture novel, the best since the early three and the first in which the global vision of the Culture as part of a well developed galactic community that started in Excession and Look to Windward, while being explicitly articulated in Matter, pays off big time. I have seen before this attempt to proceed from relatively local adventure novels like the first three Culture books, to having a fully developed coherent \"big picture\" framework as in Matter and Surface Detail and it is not easy, but when it succeeds, it does big-time. Because beyond being a very entertaining novel, Surface Detail is much more, an articulated vision of an Universe that while purely materialistic as far as its inhabitants know, allows the major goodies associated with traditional religion: souls, afterlife, though of course logically it has some of its drawbacks like Hell(s). All of course was implied from the first Culture novel (Consider Phlebas), but here and in Matter the edifice hinted before is explicitly built. FORMAT/CLASSIFICATION: Surface Detail stands at about 630 pages divided into twenty nine chapters, the usual IM Banks \"what happened later with the characters\" coda and a tongue-in-cheek epilogue that was hinted already in chapter two; I considered the possibility slightly far-fetched at the time, though there was a general \"you know, it actually could be\" feeling there. About what, well read the book to find out... Surface Detail has several threads with all kinds of POV's: humans in the extended Culture sense like Ledejde - the \"ingenue\" decided on justice at all costs, even if it's inconvenient for the great and the good like the mighty Culture itself, Vateuil, \"the ultimate warrior\", Veppers, \"the businessman from hell\" - not quite literally, but close and Yime, \"the Culture agent\", non-human quadrepds \"Pavuleans\" Prin and Chay who take a literal journey in (the Pavulean) Hell and the \"elfin\" Legislator-Admiral Bettlescroy-Bisspe-Blispin III and of course the Culture Ships/Minds of which the The Abominator-class picket ship Falling Outside The Normal Moral Constraints and its bad boy avatar Demeisen take over the novel alongside Veppers. Surface Detail is readable perfectly well on its own though a familiarity with the rest of the Culture novels only adds to its enjoyment. OVERVIEW/ANALYSIS: The main idea of Surface Detail can be summarized simply: the laws of the Universe allow mind-states aka \"materialistic souls\" and any sufficiently advanced civilization can build a virtual afterlife since physical immortality in the Real is still undesirable due to issues like finiteness of space and resources. Some of course build Heavens, but some build Hells too... Of course many of the most advanced (stage 7 and 8) civilizations object to the existence of Hells and the Culture is the most powerful of such, but unfortunately some events recounted in \"Look to Windward\" made it recuse itself from the debate for a while now. When the Pro-Hell and Anti-Hell forces decide to fight a virtual war - \"The War in Heaven for the fate of the Hells\" - to decide the issue for ever, the Culture (officially) stands on the sideline which gives an unexpected edge to the Pro-Hell side. And of course like all virtual contests, the result needs to be accepted by both parties since after all there is the Real where the war may otherwise spill with potentially catastrophic consequences. While not directly involved with the war - except for Vateuil whose career as AntiHell grunt-to-marshal is recounted in his thread - all the characters above will nonetheless play an important role in its context and resolution. I will let the three characters that dominate the novel speak for themselves: Ledejde: \u201cAll those years, all those times I tried to run away, the one thing nobody ever asked me was where I might be running to.\u201d She smiled a small, thin smile at the avatar, who looked surprised now. \u201cIf they had asked,\u201d Lededje told her, \u201cI might even have told them: I was running away to the Culture, because I\u2019d heard they\u2019d escaped the tyranny of money and individual power, and that all people were equal here, men and women alike, with no riches or poverty to put one person above or beneath another.\u201d \u201cBut now you\u2019re here?\u201d Sensia offered, sounding sad. \u201cBut now I\u2019m here I find Joiler Veppers is still deferred to because he is a rich and powerful man.\u201d Veppers (full quote here): There was nothing worse, Veppers thought, than a loser who\u2019d made it. It was just part of the way things worked \u2013 part of the complexity of life, he supposed \u2013 that sometimes somebody who absolutely deserved nothing more than to be one of the down-trodden, the oppressed, the dregs of society, lucked out into a position of wealth, power and admiration. ..... Still, at least individual losers were quite obviously statistical freaks. You could allow for that, you could tolerate that, albeit with gritted teeth. What he would not have believed was that you could find an entire society \u2013 an entire civilization\u2013 of losers who\u2019d made it. And the Culture was exactly that. Demeisen: \u201cWhat, this?\u201d he said, looking down at the ash-dark burn on his skin as Lededje stared at it, openly aghast. \u201cDon\u2019t worry; I don\u2019t feel a thing.\u201d He laughed. \u201cThe idiot inside here does though.\u201d He tapped the side of his head, smiled again. \u201cPoor fool won some sort of competition to replace a ship\u2019s avatar for a hundred days or a year or something similar. No control over either body or ship whatsoever, obviously, but the full experience in other respects \u2013 sensations, for example. I\u2019m told he practically came in his pants when he learned an up-to-date warship had volunteered to accept his offer of body host.\u201d The smile became broader, more of a grin. \u201cObviously not the most zealous student of ship psychology, then. So,\u201d Demeisen said, holding up his hand with the splinted finger and studying it, \u201cI torment the poor fool.\u201d This is not say that the rest of the cast, especially Vateuil, Yime, Prin and Chay do not have important complementary roles but for me those three elevated the novel beyond all recent Culture novels which lacked precisely that: powerful, larger than life characters and here we have Veppers and Demeisen, while Ledejde is the most sympathetic Banksian character in a while for her quiet determination. I talked about world building and sense of wonder in the introduction, while the coming together of the various threads is handled very well but I would like to add that there are so many great touches that I could fill two pages talking about them and those give Surface Detail a very rich texture. The novel has a lot of humor and I found myself laughing out loud at quite a few scenes, with the quotes above just a small sample. If there is one negative is that the whole is somewhat less than the sum of the parts in the sense that each thread is very engrossing and with lots of specific goodies - the Pavulean Hell, the virtual War, the Unfallen Bulbitian and the Tsungarial Disk have each their goodies so to speak, in addition to the awesome stuff in the threads following Veppers, Ledejde and Falling Outside The Normal Moral Constraints/Demeisen - but the main story is quite straightforward. So in a sense you could look at Surface Detail as a core-story with beautiful ornate wrappings which one enjoys more in themselves than as part of a larger tapestry. But that does not matter since Surface Detail (A++) is as good as speculative fiction on a large scale and about \"big issues\" gets from all points of view: great writing, powerful characters, coherent and detailed world building and just sheer sense of wonder and inventiveness. If you want to experience the best that sf has to offer these days and understand why written sf is still such a vital part of the \"landscape of imagination\", Surface Detail is the one 2010 novel for you. And the book has the added bonus that you can start exploring IM Banks' wonderful Culture universe just by reading it, even if you have not read previous Culture novels. ...more This review was originally posted here: http://insideonemind.wordpress.com/20... With the ability to create any kind of Virtual Reality imaginable, some civilisations have created Hell. Each respective society would punish those they deemed to deserve with virtual eternal torment, but no less real to the mind experiencing it. I found this an incredibly imaginative way of dealing with the idea of death and the afterlife without making the story supernatural. It\u2019s almost even believable. It\u2019s quite This review was originally posted here: http://insideonemind.wordpress.com/20... With the ability to create any kind of Virtual Reality imaginable, some civilisations have created Hell. Each respective society would punish those they deemed to deserve with virtual eternal torment, but no less real to the mind experiencing it. I found this an incredibly imaginative way of dealing with the idea of death and the afterlife without making the story supernatural. It\u2019s almost even believable. It\u2019s quite easy to imagine the justifications presented for creating a virtual Hell to punish people \u2013 it sounds similar to justifications for the death penalty. It\u2019s also interesting to imagine the ways fundamentalist religious people may justify actually creating the afterlives of their religion, something that Surface Detail unfortunately doesn\u2019t touch upon. Of course, many other civilisations find this practice of eternal torture barbaric. The galactic community therefore decided to host a \u2018confliction\u2019 \u2013 a way of preventing conflict in the \u2018Real\u2019 world by fighting a war in virtual reality, with both sides swearing to abide by the outcome. In this case, should the anti-Hell side win, the Hells would be abolished. However, this arrangement can only work when you can be certain each side will adhere to the result. Consequently, the Culture did not take part in the confliction in order to deny the pro-Hell side the opportunity to call foul; \u201cOf course you were always going to win with the Culture on your side!\u201d Unfortunately, the premise is one of the better things about an otherwise disappointing novel. The antagonist of the story is a cartoonishly evil capitalist called Joiler Veppers, whose lack of emotional depth makes his POV chapters a real slog. The book opens with him murdering his chattel slave when she attempts to escape. The murdered slave, Lededje, is then unexpectedly reincarnated aboard a Culture ship because sci-fi stuff. She immediately decides to return to her home to kill Veppers. Lededje is an enjoyable enough character, and her journey back home with the Culture Mind Falling Outside the Normal Moral Constraints has to be my favourite human/ship-Mind pairing of the series so far. Vatueil is a soldier who has fought the War over the Hells for several lifetimes, working his way through the ranks until he is now in a position to decide policy. When the anti-Hell side seems set to lose he chooses break the agreement of the confliction and cheat, first attempting to hack into the Hells and, when that doesn\u2019t work, to bring the war into the Real. Yime Nsokyi is a Culture agent who spends most of the book attempting to reach Lededje to stop her from killing Veppers, as killing the most powerful man in the region without carrying out the proper calculations isn\u2019t the way of Culture interventionism. Chay and Prin are academics belonging to an elephantine-esque herd species, and they abhor their society\u2019s use of Hell. However, they haven\u2019t been able to mobilise the public to fight against the virtual Hell, as their leaders deny its very existence, saying it\u2019s simply a rumour, though a useful one for keeping general population in line. As a result, Chay and Prin decide to enter Hell, in order return with evidence of its existence and work to mass public opposition towards it. Surface Detail uses these different strands of the story to gradually reveal a plot regarding the War over the Hells but I\u2019m sure it needs so many. Yime Nsokyi was an mildy interesting character but she had very little to do. Veppers was disappointingly unambiguous, especially given Iain Banks refusal to include any true \u2018villains\u2019 in his previous Culture novels, instead always opting to flesh out his characters to the point where you can\u2019t even bring yourself to call the most heinous crimes the work of an \u2018evil\u2019 person. This isn\u2019t the case here. There\u2019s absolutely nothing redeeming about Veppers. Lededje is\u2026just okay. Finally, there\u2019s a reveal at the end of the novel which actually cast the story in a more negative light for me personally, as the reveal makes you realise that the Vatueil character had MUCH more potential. The only story I consistently enjoyed was Chay and Prin\u2019s. Hell has driven Chay to madness and she\u2019s convinced there was never any life before Hell, and that the \u2018Real\u2019 was just a myth in order to keep them hoping, and thus making their torment worse. It\u2019s therefore down to Prin to break them both out of Hell, as per the original plan to get back to the Real and expose its existence to the public. But something goes wrong and only Prin gets through, leaving Chay in the Hell alone to face even worse punishment for their escape attempt. If you\u2019ve read much Banks, especially books like The Wasp Factory and Use of Weapons, then you know he takes a sadistic pleasure in the obscene. He must have been in his element thinking up horrific punishments dished out in Hell. One particularly horrific element of the torture was his description of the demon\u2019s semen burning like acid, and that it leads to the conception of some kind of parasitic monster which will agonisingly bite and claw and rips its way out of the victims they rape. This can happen to both men and women, no womb required \u2013 Hell doesn\u2019t discriminate. But I digress. I liked quite a few elements of Surface Detail, some of the side characters are fantastic and I adore the overall concept of what would if some societies used them to bring create virtual manifestations of afterlives. But many of the main characters are one-note and the gradually revealed conspiracy isn\u2019t all that interesting. Overall I didn\u2019t enjoy the book very much. So, after reading six-out-of-ten Culture novels, the score sits at 3-3; I loved The Player of Games, Use of Weapons and Look to Windward but didn\u2019t enjoy Consider Phlebas, Excession or Surface Detail. However, the best thing about the Culture series is you can really dislike a book (or even many books) but still find that my love for the series as a whole is more than the sum of its parts. ...more Surface Detail is Iain M. Banks latest Culture novel, and... that's about it. No, really. If you've read a Culture novel, you know what you're in for: a series of novelletish vignettes featuring a vast cast of characters, from all different types, two of which (the corporate sociopath and the political sociopath) will crop up, be lectured to by some nominal \"good\" protagonist, and eventually fall from grace and probably be killed in some gruesome manner. If Banks applies himself at all in Surfa Surface Detail is Iain M. Banks latest Culture novel, and... that's about it. No, really. If you've read a Culture novel, you know what you're in for: a series of novelletish vignettes featuring a vast cast of characters, from all different types, two of which (the corporate sociopath and the political sociopath) will crop up, be lectured to by some nominal \"good\" protagonist, and eventually fall from grace and probably be killed in some gruesome manner. If Banks applies himself at all in Surface Detail , it is in his depictions of Hell. Literal Hell in this case. The plot of Surface Detail surrounds those civilizations, similar in technological level to The Culture, that continue to maintain Hells: places where uploaded, digital consciouness are tortured for as long as a given civilization's Powers That Be deem they be tortured. They believe that the existence of Hell, and the threat of it, are necessary to maintain peace and order in their civ/species/polity. The Culture, and other like-minded civs, are convinced that the pro-Hell forces are barbarians, and that the galaxy would be better off without Hell. The story goes off like a Banks novel, with the usual clockwork-with-some-pieces-missing plotting that is Banks's hallmark. There's a slave girl with a tattoo who somehow ends up halfway across the galaxy and tattoo-less; she fucks her way back to her homeworld for a chance to kill her former master. There's a Culture specialist in dealing with the dead (more on that in a paragraph) who gets caught up in trying to track someone down and help them deal with their death. There's an alien species lifted out of Well World that has Hells, and two politically motivated researchers who break into Hell in order to return and report about it. There are some Culture operatives working to tamp down an outbreak of violently hegemonizing smartmatter, that turns out to be something military involved with something about the political battle over Hells. And there's the secret agent involved in a long-running, publicly visible gladiatorial match between the pro- and anti-Hell forces, having their own referee'd war in the bizarre belief that the side with the strongest moral strength ought to win: the pro-Hells want the anti-Hells to stop lecturing them, and the anti-Hells want the pro-Hells to shut it all down. Banks' weakness here is that he remains ideologically wed to a personally idiosyncratic vision of humanity. People of The Culture live 400 years, and then cheerfully knock themselves off. Those who don't are considered narcissistic and self-obsessed, since they won't make room for the next generation. When they die, they may choose to spend eternity in a digital retirement zone, indistinguishable from the real universe. There's an entire division of Contact devoted to dealing with these people, called Quietus . The distinction between \"I'm a digital person now. I got killed, but as I haven't lived out my 400 years, it is entirely appropriate for me to have a new body made and be reinstantiated in it, but while I'm waiting for it to grow I'll hang out in this paradisical setting,\" and \"I'm a dead person, living out a digital afterlife in a paradisical setting,\" is bizarrely rigid and universal in his galaxy. It's as if Banks's people have the technology to tune, affect, influence, adapt, modify, and duplicate themselves, but only within narrow notions of Banks's own expectations of mortality. The other problem is also classic Banks: the two most interesting characters are shuffled around on the stage but Banks doesn't really know what to do with them, once he's done with them. Prin and Chay, the characters from Well World, the ones who break into Hell, have the best story in the book. Chay, especially, but it peters out into the end after Banks has done an especially masterful job of speeding Chay through harrowing Hell after harrowing Hell. Prin, on the other hand, is Banks' mouthpiece: he delivers Banks's lecture to the audience about the Evils of Believing Threat of Pain Is Necessary To Maintaining Social Order. There's supposed to be a big confrontation after this speech is given. Banks never lets us see it. Prin had done his job, and is shuffled off-screen. Surface Detail is a better book than Matter or Transition , Banks's last Culture and non-Culture SF. (His non-Culture, non-SF The Steep Approach to Garbadale , I haven't read.) It has the vast stage, the wonderous setting, but the sensawunda and shock-and-awe of The Wasp Factory or Use of Weapons is long since gone. ...more I did not read this book; when I first opened the package, I gently wadded up clusters of ten or so pages, careful not to damage them too much; pulled out my paraphernalia kit, and one by one heated the clumps on a spoon, injecting them directly into my bloodstream. As always, the effect of the drug only kicks in after about 100 pages of hits; it's less the body adjusting to the magic substance, and more the fact that the first 100 pages are created somewhat defensively, always a little bit rough I did not read this book; when I first opened the package, I gently wadded up clusters of ten or so pages, careful not to damage them too much; pulled out my paraphernalia kit, and one by one heated the clumps on a spoon, injecting them directly into my bloodstream. As always, the effect of the drug only kicks in after about 100 pages of hits; it's less the body adjusting to the magic substance, and more the fact that the first 100 pages are created somewhat defensively, always a little bit rough, saying, i only want you to consume this drug if you REALLY want it. Only banks can satiate the CULTURE fix, accept no substitute; I am temporarily satiated. I give less than perfect marks because there was occasional weird buggy writing, and also so many interesting lines of activity were not pursued, whereas there was tons of weird filler (i.e., in the same amount of pages, certainly those things could have been tied without anything suffering). To list a few of these bugs.. Is there really nothing more to say about the bulbitian? The SC semi-neural-lace in Nsokyi would have transmitted the dream which indicated the sublimed connection (otherwise it wouldn't have been so pissed). Banks loves these super-mysterious relics, but usually we get at least something nice with them.. excession is an example, then there's some other book with these huge biological orbs that float around the galaxy, i think the last scene is with one.. then there's the hells. how is it that just blowing up the substrates really settled the issue? wouldn't this just make the war vastly worse? it was just so weird to have this as a constant point of the story, and then just have it flop off at the end (if it were so contentious and evenly supported to prompt such a wide scale virtual war in the first place, certainly there should be retribution for clipping the umbilical). Why do the gfcf get off the hook so easy? they severely damaged a culture vessel! also, their whole motivation was never really explained, and certainly not enough to make them attack the culture. The NR were harassing a GSV and getting in the way of its displacements; how is that not deserving more than a few notes of demeisen trolling? prin.. after being so obsessed with chay, and having her back (the temptation being great enough to jeopardize everything), how'd that all just kindof evaporate? also there was just too much other random stuff. the jasken affection was kindof hinted in the first scene, but it was annoying to get that whole random dialogue + tears at the end. the random innuendo with demeisen was annoying. Also, gangrene semen. Also, after we first saw the ultra-demon, i was pretty sure veppers was controlling it directly, and I was pissed this wasn't the case (it was clear he ran the hells because of how assuredly he could provide their locations, though there were other hints before). I think I wanted an excession style ending where everything focuses to a point and blows up at once. But I guess excession is special in that way. hello (oh and back to the rating, yeah, i need my drug) ...more There seems to be an epidemic of weak editing these days. Surface Detail is sadly not immune, either on the typographical (words and punctuation missing or misplaced) or stylistic (poor word choice, lack of clarity) front. It's not a major impediment, but it's disappointing. Iain M. Banks' Culture books tend to exceptionally well-written, but also be dry, distant, and complex. Surface Detail is no exception. Characters with long, difficult names abound, and there are several plots and sub-plots, There seems to be an epidemic of weak editing these days. Surface Detail is sadly not immune, either on the typographical (words and punctuation missing or misplaced) or stylistic (poor word choice, lack of clarity) front. It's not a major impediment, but it's disappointing. Iain M. Banks' Culture books tend to exceptionally well-written, but also be dry, distant, and complex. Surface Detail is no exception. Characters with long, difficult names abound, and there are several plots and sub-plots, most of which come loosely together at the end. In fact, the epilogue relies on readers' memory of another Culture book from some years back. (I didn't get it and had to look it up). Briefly, Surface Detail is about both an indentured servant/slave who breaks free, and a disagreement about the future of virtual \"Hells\". As always, Banks' writing is generally excellent, engaging, and witty. (Though there are some rough patches during which the editor seems to have fallen asleep.) Almost everything is plausible, though one key character is decidedly ex-machina and both inconsistent and non-credible in his actions. I'm always amazed at Bank's ability to keep a complex, multi-element plot moving smoothly through a massive book. At the same time, while I enjoy Banks' writing, I often have difficulty remembering much about the Culture books afterwards. That may in part be because they're complex. However, I think it has more to do with the characters. They're likeable and realistic, but they seldom seem to have very deep emotions, and I always feel at a fairly great level of remove from them. Every now and then, I'm afraid with them, but more often I relate to them somewhat clinically. In this book, that's true of the central character, to whom many bad things have happened. I accept her desire for revenge, but I never really feel it, and since it's a plot driver, that's problematic. At the other end is a couple to whom bad things continue to happen. There, I felt a little more empathy, but always at some distance. In short, in Surface Detail , as with other Culture books (and unlike the only Iain Banks [no M.] book I've read, A Song of Stone ), I finished the book and thought \"That was really well written.\" I did not think \"I'm really relieved that Character X came out of it okay.\" My appreciation was much more technical than emotional. This book won't change your mind about Banks. If you've liked other Culture books, you'll like this one. If you're new to Banks, you can start here, but you might be better of with Consider Phlebas or Use of Weapons . ...more If this were a movie, I'd be blinking myself awake in a chair, belly stuffed full of popcorn, remembering vaguely that there were lots of explosions and weak acting, and feeling a bit silly for having hoped it was going to be something else. I really wanted to like this book. And I did, when it was called Excession. Banks has had these problems before in other novels, but here it really all comes together. It's a Culture Novel by the tropes. Seriously, there's nothing in this book that you haven' If this were a movie, I'd be blinking myself awake in a chair, belly stuffed full of popcorn, remembering vaguely that there were lots of explosions and weak acting, and feeling a bit silly for having hoped it was going to be something else. I really wanted to like this book. And I did, when it was called Excession. Banks has had these problems before in other novels, but here it really all comes together. It's a Culture Novel by the tropes. Seriously, there's nothing in this book that you haven't seen before. Wacky minds? Check. Ultimately meaningless emotional sideplot involving humans? Check. Massively competent SC operative awkwardly standing by the sidelines? Idiot slapstick military trying to take on an Abominator class and failing? Check. Over the top self obsessed villain? Check. And the guy who's supposedly pushing all of this -- the head of the Trapeze gang -- is such a hollowed out shell that even fighting for his life in simulations is so boring that he's going through the motions. So... yeah. Don't bother. ...more It's His Party and You're Invited... As in \"Matter,\" the last Culture installment, Banks waxes at length in \"Surface Detail.\" Happily, SD is more interesting than its predecessor, and features more tidbits about the Culture - that industrious, indefatigable, galaxy-spanning civilization that has always been the most interesting character in a series that is essentially a collection of character pieces. The plot and writing and characters are competent at best, and tedious at their worst. Really, It's His Party and You're Invited... As in \"Matter,\" the last Culture installment, Banks waxes at length in \"Surface Detail.\" Happily, SD is more interesting than its predecessor, and features more tidbits about the Culture - that industrious, indefatigable, galaxy-spanning civilization that has always been the most interesting character in a series that is essentially a collection of character pieces. The plot and writing and characters are competent at best, and tedious at their worst. Really, the main reason I read these is because Banks has created a hell of a sandbox to play in, and when he's at his most exuberant, his creations achieve a scale that steals all of the oxygen out of the room. I still get chills when he delves into the nitty-gritty of a General Systems Vehicle. As I say above: Banks has thrown a party, and you're invited. It's his party, though, so expect some indulgence on his part. ...more An Impressive Work of Scope, and Gravitas I think what we all really love about Iain M Banks is his ability to come up with an idea, and then to not only run with it, but to travel at light speed with it to the furthest edge of the galaxy of our imagination... and sometimes one step further. His ideas aren't merely creative and individual, they are unique because of the depth to which he explores them. Sure, people have created super-powerful futuristic space exploring societies before, but Banks An Impressive Work of Scope, and Gravitas I think what we all really love about Iain M Banks is his ability to come up with an idea, and then to not only run with it, but to travel at light speed with it to the furthest edge of the galaxy of our imagination... and sometimes one step further. His ideas aren't merely creative and individual, they are unique because of the depth to which he explores them. Sure, people have created super-powerful futuristic space exploring societies before, but Banks has put much more thought into how such a society would develop, and the quirks it would have, and the repercussions of its power and technology. It is his attention to detail that makes the Culture so interesting and expansive. People have created AIs before, and even put them in ships, but Banks has actually given them a personality that is not, and never has been, truly human. How would something act that had come into being, fully developed, as war ship with capabilities a mere biological could never understand? How does such a being define itself? And we all know that our favorite detail of the Minds is the names they choose, unlimited by convention or character count. Authors have certainly explored virtual reality before. They've played games with it, they've gotten lost in it, they've even dipped their toe in the vast ocean of implications that comes with true VR. With Surface Detail , Banks went scuba diving. What are the consequences of post-biological existence in near-limitless virtual realities that are managed by any society with enough cash to create an Afterlife? What if wars no longer needed to be fought in \"the Real\" and soldiers could be rebirthed at the will of their commanders, remembering everything they learned from all their previous \"deaths?\" And what happens when the pan-human galaxy is faced with a group of societies who truly believe hells need to exist to keep the living in line? (view spoiler) [Strangely enough, given the extensive descriptions of a particularly nasty hell and multiple violent murders, this was one of Banks' least complicated and overall positive novels. I had gotten used to the bittersweet taste of his often sudden conclusions that rarely leave a main character alive. This time we're left with all our characters, if not alive in a biological sense, existing as individuals in whatever realm they started in on page one. This novel did not \"fall outside of normal moral constraints\" in the way that Banks sometimes spins a plot. In Surface Detail, all of the bad guys were uncomplicatedly bad, just greedy men, or dirty politicians, or demons in hell. All of the good guys were just people trying to live their lives, do their jobs, or escape their abuser once and for all. In many ways, Surface Detail catered more to fans than to strangers picking up their first Culture Novel. As frequent travelers within The Culture, we were gifted with detailed descriptions of space suit tech, protection droids disguised as tattoos, crazy war-ship minds, new branches of culture intelligence, and even a previous character that is not exposed until the very last sentence. However, I think a novice to the culture world would be left feeling a little unimpressed. The true scope and breadth and depth of The Culture is somewhat ignored, and all we see are the surface details of something that is so much larger. The characters themselves aren't as complex as I've come to expect from Banks. The details were as exquisite and creative as always, but for all those extra pages, I think there was actually less going on than in (for instance) Look to Windward or Excession . (hide spoiler) ] While this may not be my favorite novel by Iain M Banks, it was still an incredible piece of science fiction, and leaves the average modern space-travel novel behind in a trail of 4D space dust. ...more Iain M. Banks has earned more than a little slack from us over the years with his prodigious and amazing output. Surface Detail calls some of that back in. The book takes its time getting started. Its multiple opening chapters seem like little more than vignettes. But Banks' ability, the trust that he has earned over those decades, should keep you reading, as he begins weaving these disparate tales together. Surface Detail turns out to be something like a pleasant, prolonged stroll through unfami Iain M. Banks has earned more than a little slack from us over the years with his prodigious and amazing output. Surface Detail calls some of that back in. The book takes its time getting started. Its multiple opening chapters seem like little more than vignettes. But Banks' ability, the trust that he has earned over those decades, should keep you reading, as he begins weaving these disparate tales together. Surface Detail turns out to be something like a pleasant, prolonged stroll through unfamiliar areas of a favorite park. It is a Culture novel, and that is really all you need to know\u2014all of the familiar trappings are here: whimsically-named starships with wise-cracking drones and avatars on a human scale; vast and ancient engineering marvels; depraved individuals at the top of their barbaric capitalist civilizations, coming up against the urbane, effete Culture which will, in the end, best them with one manipulator metaphorically tied behind its collective back. But there is much that is new here as well. The heretofore unmentioned Hells, for one main thing\u2014virtual afterlives to which the less-than-virtuous are consigned, in those civilizations that, unlike the Culture, still believe in such notions. (There are Heavens, too, but they are of course much less interesting and figure very little in the novel.) There is a war in, and among, the Afterlives, both Heavens and Hells, a virtual war that has been going on for thirty years. That's three decades in the Real, that is\u2014time runs differently in the Afterlives, and death is but a temporary setback. Now, though, things are coming to a head, and the confliction between the anti-Hell and pro-Hell forces is threatening to spill over into the Real, in defiance of all treaties, all honorable agreements among the combatants. Will the Culture sit idly by while the carnage mounts? Will the worthy be redeemed, and the wicked (and there are most certainly wicked) be punished? The surface details vary, but the outcome never really seems to be in doubt. Despite or maybe because of its length, Surface Detail 's impact seems blunted. Unfocused. Obscure. I liked it well enough, myself\u2014I always like visiting the milieu of the Culture and its surrounding, less-genteel Galactic neighbors, and on a sentence-to-sentence, paragraph-by-paragraph level, Banks' writing remains as sharp and entertaining as ever. But I'm thinking I'd like to see something a little less Cultured, next time. ...more I don't know... I think Banks may have finally reached the limit of engaging stories he can tell in the Culture universe, without perhaps going for more small scale intrigues rather than galaxy shaking events. This is by no means a full review, but I'll jot down a few thoughts and impressions. Banks displays his usual skill with words, but in the end the whole thing was a bit... boring I guess. I really didn't care that much about any of the characters, the things they were doing didn't really se I don't know... I think Banks may have finally reached the limit of engaging stories he can tell in the Culture universe, without perhaps going for more small scale intrigues rather than galaxy shaking events. This is by no means a full review, but I'll jot down a few thoughts and impressions. Banks displays his usual skill with words, but in the end the whole thing was a bit... boring I guess. I really didn't care that much about any of the characters, the things they were doing didn't really seem to matter and nothing about the narrative really grabbed me and pulled me in. Speaking of the narrative, I found it a bit too fractured and it had too many side plots that really didn't amount to much. The whole side story about the two aliens who set out to investigate and expose the virtual Hells could have been completely eliminated without affecting the rest of the book in any significant way except to shorten it. The Hells themselves are the source of the conflict in the book, various sides, conspiracies and factions seeking to either eliminate them completely or maintain them. Frankly, the various twists, turns, betrayals, secret deals, and clashes between the various factions as they war over the fate of the Hells was a bit hard to follow. And in the end, the convoluted narrative didn't do much except to seemingly do nothing more than inflate the word count. The plot of the book was essentially split between the war for the Hells and the adventures of a young woman murdered and then \"revented\" or cloned into a new body who then seeks revenge on her killer. That story element was by far the most interesting part of the book, unfortunately with so much else going on, it didn't really get a chance to be front and center as it should have. Where the book shines, as all Culture novels do, is when we are witnessing the interactions of Culture citizens and the hyper-intelligent Minds, essentially godlike A.I.s, of the Culture ships with various other characters. Many of the Minds are delightfully eccentric and their antics are a real joy to read. Much of the dialogue between more mundane characters falls flat, unfortunately. All in all, a decent book, but by Iain M Banks standards probably the weakest of the Culture novels to date. If you're a Banks or Culture fan, by all means, read the book. If you're not a hard sci-fi fan or couldn't care less about the Culture universe then you can give this one a miss. ...more I developed a love/hate relationship with this particular Ian Banks book. As usual, Bank\u2019s books span a galaxy, with big ideas crossing big ships, and even bigger events. It started out fairly strong, introducing the host of characters that would take the reader into the middle part of the book, where it just seemed to bog down in cumbersome descriptions of why the Culutre doesn\u2019t like virtual Hell and why they were fighting those who felt it was their right to have virtual Hells and a few perso I developed a love/hate relationship with this particular Ian Banks book. As usual, Bank\u2019s books span a galaxy, with big ideas crossing big ships, and even bigger events. It started out fairly strong, introducing the host of characters that would take the reader into the middle part of the book, where it just seemed to bog down in cumbersome descriptions of why the Culutre doesn\u2019t like virtual Hell and why they were fighting those who felt it was their right to have virtual Hells and a few personal vendettas along the way. Banks writes a deft story, interweaving some amazing concepts, ideas, ship names (the best part in my opinion), and usually pretty great characters. Somewhere, there will be a betrayal, because with a cast as big as his, someone is up to No Good. Surface Detail had all that. As I noted, I had a love/hate thing going on. I thoroughly enjoyed the galaxy setting, the Culture, the ships, and most of the characters. But this one seemed to mire down in it's own gravity well about page 400. I lost interest in nearly every storyling. The only interesting character was one ship and that wasn\u2019t enough to carry me through the next 200 pages. So I fully and readily admit I skipped to the ending\u2026which I have to say was simply outstanding with one caveat. You need to have read Use of Weapons otherwise the ending just won\u2019t make any sense. So I recommend this one with reservations. ...more The Culture is a great place to hang out - Iain M Banks crafts fantastic worlds where he doesn't simply look to the future but takes possibilities to their extremes. I used to read lots of Star Wars books and think they were good sci-fi; once you read Iain M Banks you will realise that space opera can be so, so much more. And it's all done with a razor-sharp black humour, that verges on the sick, but is always clever. Surface Detail is a great example - in the Culture, and other sci-fi/ advanced The Culture is a great place to hang out - Iain M Banks crafts fantastic worlds where he doesn't simply look to the future but takes possibilities to their extremes. I used to read lots of Star Wars books and think they were good sci-fi; once you read Iain M Banks you will realise that space opera can be so, so much more. And it's all done with a razor-sharp black humour, that verges on the sick, but is always clever. Surface Detail is a great example - in the Culture, and other sci-fi/ advanced universes, physical death doesn't have to be fatal. It's a simple matter to upload your mind regularly and if your physical body suffers an accident, then a new one can be cloned and your mind popped back into it. BUT, Banks takes this concept and runs with it - all the way to virtual heavens and hells. What makes Banks really great is that amidst the huge concepts and settings, he never loses sight of the characters - essentially there's a quest for revenge at the heart of this book, and it's the players within that that carry the story. If it wasn't for the fact that there are even better Culture novels than this, it would have five stars. It's all relative - there is a chasm between this and \"Luke Skywalker and the Shadows of Mindor\" (which I'd still recommend) but I have to judge it against other Culture books. This is superb - go read it. And then do yourself a favour and follow up with \"Use of Weapons\" or \"Excession\". ...more Whew, Banks hits the top of his game again, after a couple of more middle of the road books. Middle of the road for Banks that it. I'm always fascinated by his Culture books. The Minds, of course, being the Best. And this one had a great concept - a battle about The Hells. The Hells exist in virtual life, with people stuck there in heh hellish conditions. The galaxy is torn about this - there are the anti-Hells side which believes this is morally reprehensible and \"uncivilized\", whereas the spec Whew, Banks hits the top of his game again, after a couple of more middle of the road books. Middle of the road for Banks that it. I'm always fascinated by his Culture books. The Minds, of course, being the Best. And this one had a great concept - a battle about The Hells. The Hells exist in virtual life, with people stuck there in heh hellish conditions. The galaxy is torn about this - there are the anti-Hells side which believes this is morally reprehensible and \"uncivilized\", whereas the species that do have Hells claim it is the only thing that keeps people good. Sound familiar? Anyway, an agreement was made to have a War in Hell, between the pros and antis, and whichever side wins will be the deciding vote. Things are not going very well, and the war has lasted 30 years. The anti-Hell is losing, to the surprise of all, and they plot to bring it to the Real. The Culture hasn't been allowed since they will tip the balance. BUT... Meanwhile we get to follow a young woman who has been the property of and then murdered by a Bad Guy, the Villain, who is pretty one-dimensional. But the girl certainly isn't, nor are any of the other characters. Actually the ships, the Minds, are the richest! I love Culture books, and this is a particularly good one. If I wasn't such a hardass when it comes to rating books, this would be a 5. ...more This is kind of a weird book because I feel the central concept is a big introduction to make and messes with the uniqueness of a species in a previous book (view spoiler) [Look to Windward, the heaven concept of the Chelgrians (hide spoiler) ] . It's hard to buy the idea behind the big \"war\" of the book (view spoiler) [a virtual reality battle over whether it's ok to maintain a virtual reality hell sounds so silly I laughed when I first read it (hide spoiler) ] But as long as you accept it the book This is kind of a weird book because I feel the central concept is a big introduction to make and messes with the uniqueness of a species in a previous book (view spoiler) [Look to Windward, the heaven concept of the Chelgrians (hide spoiler) ] . It's hard to buy the idea behind the big \"war\" of the book (view spoiler) [a virtual reality battle over whether it's ok to maintain a virtual reality hell sounds so silly I laughed when I first read it (hide spoiler) ] But as long as you accept it the book is fun and interesting and keeps up the tension. Could have done without some of the long battle description type things but eh, no big deal. I feel he could probably have done more with the virtual reality concept but I dunno. The ending wrapped things up nicely and he wrapped up most of the loose ends so I'm happy and nothing broke my suspension of disbelief Feel it's worth warning that the book contains some rape stuff and there are some descriptions of kind of grotesque over the top gore/body horror type stuff. No rape scenes, just mentions of it. Very ending thing (view spoiler) [hahahaha what a silly last line. Whatever. Guess he's got to get his twists in somewhere and this was a pretty funny one (hide spoiler) ] Oh and the epilogue gets a dig in at right wing revisionist historians so hell yeah ...more The best part of the Culture series is how different each book is, both in content and in style. Feeling ill and wanted an easy read. Not too easy these days if you are not a Potter or a Twilight fan... Iain M. Banks has always provided a fine dark vision sparkling with irreverence and a sort of tongue in cheek view of his own creations. Needless to say, \"Surface Detail\" provides the sort of fractal complexity coupled with topological intricacy that one has come to expect. Not sure that the plot matters too much as long as it has a beginning, a middle and an end. Its the \"surface details\" th Feeling ill and wanted an easy read. Not too easy these days if you are not a Potter or a Twilight fan... Iain M. Banks has always provided a fine dark vision sparkling with irreverence and a sort of tongue in cheek view of his own creations. Needless to say, \"Surface Detail\" provides the sort of fractal complexity coupled with topological intricacy that one has come to expect. Not sure that the plot matters too much as long as it has a beginning, a middle and an end. Its the \"surface details\" that make all the difference, the different species, levels of civilisations, layers of sentient machines and the glorious interaction of these elements that make Banks SF stand out. To call this writing \"space opera\" is to demean it - this is the result of a grade A imagination powering along at its own pace... \"let's-see-what-this-baby-will-do...\" All the elements that one has come to know and love return in well known and familiar forms, yet with a new twist. There is no sense of a writer who is jaded by repetition, rather the sense of someone rearranging patterns of known elements to produce new situations and consequences. Isn't that what novel writing is all about? ...more I think an Intagliate being is the neatest alien pan-human I've ever read about it. Every cell in her body tattooed? Wow. However, despite the amazing plot intricacies of the 600+ page book, I was disappointed by the somewhat secondary roles of most of the female characters. They were mostly appealing, needing rescue, and not as tough as the males despite the Culture's ability to change anyone into anything. Apparently sexual transmutation does not mess with sexual stereotypes from primitive 20t I think an Intagliate being is the neatest alien pan-human I've ever read about it. Every cell in her body tattooed? Wow. However, despite the amazing plot intricacies of the 600+ page book, I was disappointed by the somewhat secondary roles of most of the female characters. They were mostly appealing, needing rescue, and not as tough as the males despite the Culture's ability to change anyone into anything. Apparently sexual transmutation does not mess with sexual stereotypes from primitive 20th century Earth. The most amazing projections of what uses The Matrix' movie-type technology could be used for were explored by the author, and some were horrifying, mostly because I could see how such technology COULD be misused by religious societies exactly as projected in the novel. This is truly a convoluted and twisting plot, with many threads. While I think it was very entertaining, smart and hellishly inventive, I don't think it was a light or fast read. It requires a commitment to read. But it is very fun. ...more<---C>Iain M. Banks</---C>", "Title": "Surface Detail"},
