{"Comments": "Straight into the saddle with a quick update of where we are in terms of Henry VIII\u2019s life & the key players that surround him which acquaints us swiftly with Tudor life. And we\u2019re off! Shardlake takes on a case with political & religious connotations afoot which align to professional suicide so all warn him...... then the murders start! Are they linked.....? And then the guessing game begins Its a grand series & I ALWAYS kick myself as to why I take so long before reading another in Straight into the saddle with a quick update of where we are in terms of Henry VIII\u2019s life & the key players that surround him which acquaints us swiftly with Tudor life. And we\u2019re off! Shardlake takes on a case with political & religious connotations afoot which align to professional suicide so all warn him...... then the murders start! Are they linked.....? And then the guessing game begins Its a grand series & I ALWAYS kick myself as to why I take so long before reading another in the series.... maybe I jus like to leave them a period to savour them moreso. At jus over 600 pages I thought this would last me til xmas...... WRONG! A real pg turner & I urge all who haven\u2019t tried the Shardlake series yet,<---M> to delve in</---M>, if Crime mystery is your thing! And Yeah Yeah I dinny know who it was either, totally clueless was me (<---B>as usual</---B>) but there\u2019s so many potentially that it could be which is the real intrigue of it all. ...more The fourth installment in this excellent series and it is easily worth five stars. One of the best things about these books is the delightful way the author discusses all the details of the lifestyle of Tudor England. I have always found this a fascinating period of history and <---A>C.J. Sansom</---A> knows how to make the most of it. In this book <---C>Matthew Shardlake</---C> our daring, hunchback, lawyer/detective is working for Archbishop Cranmer and HenryVIII is preparing to marry Catherine Parr. Life becomes very The fourth installment in this excellent series and it is easily worth five stars. One of the best things about these books is the delightful way the author discusses all the details of the lifestyle of Tudor England. I have always found this a fascinating period of history and C.J. Sansom knows how to make the most of it. In this book Matthew Shardlake our daring, hunchback, lawyer/detective is working for Archbishop Cranmer and HenryVIII is preparing to marry Catherine Parr. Life becomes very dangerous at times for our hero and there are numerous very gruesome murders! Extremely entertaining and for me unputdownable! Now for the next one:) ...more This is the fourth novel in the series featuring lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, and his assistant Jack Barak. This is one of the darkest, most unsettling books in the series, involving Shardlake and Barak in the hunt for a Tudor serial killer, who has an obsession with the book of <+++>Revelation</+++>s and a client who is declared insane and sent to the Bedlam. King Henry is planning to take another wife and is busy trying to convince Catherine Parr to marry him. Speaking of matrimony, Barak\u2019s marriage to Tama This is the fourth novel in the series featuring lawyer, Matthew Shardlake, and his assistant Jack Barak. This is one of the darkest, most unsettling books in the series, involving Shardlake and Barak in the hunt for a Tudor serial killer, who has an obsession with the book of <+++>Revelation</+++>s and a client who is declared insane and sent to the Bedlam. King Henry is planning to take another wife and is busy trying to convince Catherine Parr to marry him. Speaking of matrimony, Barak\u2019s marriage to Tamasin is suffering difficulties and Matthew\u2019s old friend, Roger Elliard is murdered. Matthew had hoped to marry Roger\u2019s wife, Dorothy, and he feels responsible to help her by tracking down Roger\u2019s killer. However, the crime is not a simple one and brings him back into contact with those at the centre of power and the Court \u2013 Thomas Cranmer, Thomas Seymour and Edward Seymour, Earl of Hertford. London is portrayed as a city rife with religious tension. Reformers are under scrutiny, Cranmer fears investigation and there is a climate of fear on the streets. Along with the strain between Barak and Tamasin, Matthew\u2019s old friend, Guy, has a new apprentice called Piers, who Matthew feels uneasy about. As Shardlake attempts to protect his client and track down a killer, you can almost feel the tension, both on the streets and between the characters. This is an excellent addition to the series \u2013 intelligent, thoughtful and well written \u2013 a superior historical mystery. ...more With this installment in the Matthew Shardlake series, I think I can safely say that CJ Sansom has taken his place as my second favorite modern author (Sharon Kay Penman being my favorite). I have given this book some time to swirl around in my mind since I finished it, and I'm still not sure that I can do it justice. Nobody brings Tudor England to life the way Sansom does.<---F> The sights, smells, sounds</---F>....it is easy for the reader to imagine that they are walking along next to dear Matthew as he wa With this installment in the Matthew Shardlake series, I think I can safely say that CJ Sansom has taken his place as my second favorite modern author (Sharon Kay Penman being my favorite). I have given this book some time to swirl around in my mind since I finished it, and I'm still not sure that I can do it justice. Nobody brings Tudor England to life the way Sansom does. The sights, smells, sounds....it is easy for the reader to imagine that they are walking along next to dear Matthew as he walks the crowded London streets. This is what I first fell in love with in Sansom's writing back in Dissolution. The next thing that drew me in was Shardlake himself. I love the way Sansom presents him as a character that the reader can relate to and admire despite his flaws. We share his doubt, fears, and longings as if Matthew is our very best friend. I can feel my heart twist in my chest when he is hurting. Then there is the mystery, which I know is supposed to be the main point. Though it is expertly done, this is only part of the attraction of the novel for me. The cases that Matthew is wrapped up in for this installment once again bring him closer to court than he is comfortable with, and the reader is given a fun glimpse of the Seymour brothers as Henry VIII nears his end and targets his final wife, Catherine Parr. This story is much darker than the previous volumes, with a serial killer stalking victims and torturing them according to his interpretation of verses in the book of Revelation. Sansom takes this opportunity to evaluate the religious war taking place in England at the time along with Matthew's personal doubts. If I had one minor complaint about this book it was that the author attributes many protestant beliefs to Martin Luther than he did not hold. Maybe this was believed at the time, and that is why he chose to write it that way or maybe it was a simple mistake. Specifically, Martin Luther did not believe that certain people were predestined to hell. This is a belief more accurately attributed to Calvinists. On the other hand, Luther did believe in the true body and blood of Jesus being present in the Eucharist, though not all protestants did. Revelation was captivating in its plot, historical detail, and character development. I am only afraid that soon I will run out of Shardlake novels to read. ...more I really enjoy this series of mystery novels set in the reign of Henry VIII. The author has a gift for weaving the historical backstory into the mystery and generating a very evocative atmosphere of London in the 16th century. Through the characters and other story lines running through the novel, many pictures of daily life emerge including the practice of Medicine at the time, the workings of the sewerage system, construction of false teeth and of course the upheaval in religion and the chucrc I really enjoy this series of mystery novels set in the reign of Henry VIII. The author has a gift for weaving the historical backstory into the mystery and generating a very evocative atmosphere of London in the 16th century. Through the characters and other story lines running through the novel, many pictures of daily life emerge including the practice of Medicine at the time, the workings of the sewerage system, construction of false teeth and of course the upheaval in religion and the chucrches during the reformation. In this fourth novel of the series, Henry is courting his sixth wife, Catherine Parr. The city is tense with religious unrest following the dissolution of the monasteries and those caught preaching on the streets are arrested and put to death. When several bizarre murders are uncovered, one victim being a close friend of lawyer Matthew Shardlake, there are fears that of a plot against the King and Archbishop Cramer hires Matthew and his assistant Jack Barak to hunt down the killer. Matthew has also been hired to look into the case of a young man, seized with religious fervour who has been locked in Bedlam for his own safety. This is a long novel, but I enjoyed every page of it as Matthew uses his detective skills to tease out the identity of the killer. ...more I may consistently give these C.J. Sansom books 4 out of 5 stars (with the exception of the third in the series, Sovereign, which I gave 5 stars to), but I do thoroughly enjoy them. For me they are the perfect holiday read, or windy wet weather read. Sit in a corner with a cup of tea, curl up under a thick quilt in bed, lock yourself away or escape every evening to its pages. C.J Sansom recreates the Tudor world with an ease that all historical fiction authors should aspire to. The stories are no I may consistently give these C.J. Sansom books 4 out of 5 stars (with the exception of the third in the series, Sovereign, which I gave 5 stars to), but I do thoroughly enjoy them. For me they are the perfect holiday read, or windy wet weather read. Sit in a corner with a cup of tea, curl up under a thick quilt in bed, lock yourself away or escape every evening to its pages. C.J Sansom recreates the Tudor world with an ease that all historical fiction authors should aspire to. The stories are not always fast paced or addictive, but for me it is not really the power of the story or plot that keeps me coming back again and again, it is the power of the author to open a window in time through which I feel and see and smell Tudor England. It happens everytime I pick up one of these books. They are most reliable in that respect. In this fourth instalment of the Matthew Shardlake series, our window is into 1543 London. Henry VIII is courting Catherine Parr, the Parliament has brought in controversial anti-reformist legislation - the legislation that includes prohibiting women and the working classes from reading the bible \u2013 and religious radicals and conservatives are pulling apart the cultural and social fabric of the city. Within this maelstrom, Matthew and Barak are confronted with an all new horror. Gruesome deaths the like of which they have never seen. The like of which the city has never seen. Orchestrated with the methodical cunning and pathological cruelty that we relate now to being the potential handiwork of serial killers. But in the Sixteenth Century, a time of intense religious fervour, some can only fathom it as demonic possession. Running parallel to these killings is the story of a young man, Adam Kite. His peculiar and desperate behaviour having landed him in The Bedlam, Shardlake is appointed to the boys case and he must solve the riddle of this young man's mind before the conservative powers would have him burned or some such other grisly fate. If there is anything I can point to as a negative with this book - a negative for me at least - it would be the amount of religious discussion inserted into the story. For other readers it would be appropriate and interesting, and while I do agree with its appropriateness (as the country was alive with religious debate) I would not agree with it being interesting. I would have shaved it back a degree as it got in the way of the semi thrilling hunt for a killer or killers. ...more In his fourth outing, hunchback lawyer Matthew Shardlake is up against a gruesome serial killer intent on bringing forth the prophecies of Revelation through a series of Biblical-inspired killings. Called in to attend to the bizarre case of a young boy imprisoned for madness and suspected of suffering from demonic possession, when Shardlake discovers the slain body of his best friend in a frozen fountain, he is once again caught between the machinations of the Tudor court, where Henry VIII has s In his fourth outing, hunchback lawyer Matthew Shardlake is up against a gruesome serial killer intent on bringing forth the prophecies of Revelation through a series of Biblical-inspired killings. Called in to attend to the bizarre case of a young boy imprisoned for madness and suspected of suffering from demonic possession, when Shardlake discovers the slain body of his best friend in a frozen fountain, he is once again caught between the machinations of the Tudor court, where Henry VIII has set his sights on a reluctant Catherine Parr, his own waning spirituality, and the brutality of existence in Tudor London. As always, Sansom paints a realistic portrait of an era where power and wealth are the ultimate prize and life is easily disposed of; his attention to detail conjures a time both vastly different and eerily reminiscent of our own, a world where religious fundamentalism threatens to uproot the foundations of reason and men struggle to come to terms with the meaning of justice and faith. Excellent! ...more REVELATION (Hist. Mys-Matthew Shardlake-England-1500s-Middle-Ages) \u2013 Ex Sansom, C.J. \u2013 4th in series Macmillan, 2008, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9781405092722 First Sentence: The high chandeliers in the Great Hall of Lincoln\u2019s Inn were ablaze with candles, for it was late afternoon when the play began. Henry VIII has asked to marry Catherine Parr and England is in a time of religious turmoil. The Dissolution of the monasteries is done but now Henry, and the reformists, are moving back toward Catholic ways REVELATION (Hist. Mys-Matthew Shardlake-England-1500s-Middle-Ages) \u2013 Ex Sansom, C.J. \u2013 4th in series Macmillan, 2008, UK Hardcover \u2013 ISBN: 9781405092722 First Sentence: The high chandeliers in the Great Hall of Lincoln\u2019s Inn were ablaze with candles, for it was late afternoon when the play began. Henry VIII has asked to marry Catherine Parr and England is in a time of religious turmoil. The Dissolution of the monasteries is done but now Henry, and the reformists, are moving back toward Catholic ways, under the King rather than the Pope, at the same time as the rise in Protestantism. An English version of the Bible has been published, but only Churches and the upper class are allowed to read it. One of lawyer Matthew Shardlake\u2019s closest friends has been murdered and his body publicly displayed. Brought before Archbishop Cramer, Matthew learns this is not the first such killing. A serial killer is using versus in the Book of Revelations to carry out his killings. Sansom brings Tutor England to life and makes us see what a difficult time it was in which to live. He doesn\u2019t present the romanticized image, but gives us a look at the dangers of the time from social and religious reforms to poverty to mental illness being labeled possession, without ever slowing down the story or being preachy. The dialogue is, naturally enough, not of the time, but flavored with a sense of the time. I always learn a lot reading Sansom. Shardlake is a wonderful character who has grown and improved as a character through the series. He is supported by Barak, for whom Matthew tries to do a bit of marriage counseling, and Guy, a Moor, once a monk, now a doctor. Sansom is an evocative writer and masterful at combining historical detail with a multilayered story, and suspenseful mystery. I am continually impressed by the quality of Sansom\u2019s writing. ...more It is the end of winter in 1543 and Henry is wooing Catherine Parr with the intention of making her his sixth wife. This is not popular with Archbishop Cramer as Parr is known to have sympathies to the reformist agenda. Shardlake has agrees to take on the case of a lad who has been diagnosed as mad and who is in the asylum called Bedlam. People are starting to think that his mania will get him sentenced as a heretic. On returning home later one evening he discovers a body in the fountain, this is It is the end of winter in 1543 and Henry is wooing Catherine Parr with the intention of making her his sixth wife. This is not popular with Archbishop Cramer as Parr is known to have sympathies to the reformist agenda. Shardlake has agrees to take on the case of a lad who has been diagnosed as mad and who is in the asylum called Bedlam. People are starting to think that his mania will get him sentenced as a heretic. On returning home later one evening he discovers a body in the fountain, this is his good friend Roger, and his throat has been cut. Shardlake pledges to Dorothy that he will find Roger's killer and bring him to justice. His initial investigation and the coroners inquiry raise suspicions within him that there is a lot more to the murder that he is being told, and he challenges the coroner after the hearing. He is summoned to Archbishop Cramer's office and is told that this is not the first murder that they have suppressed the details of as there is a suspicion that this will threaten Catherine Parr. Heving successfully avoided the political scheming recently, he is now right back in the middle of it. So Shardlake begins his investigation, and as he does, he realises that these grisly murders are linked, and have a pattern that brings a chill to his heart. The race is on to find this murderer, before he kills again, but he is always one step ahead and is following Shardlake and his assistant Barak. Sansom has done it again with this book. Not only do you have dramatic tension as they struggle to find a very clever killer, who knows so much about them, but there are political intrigues, personal conflicts and layers of stories in here. Nicely paced too, with an excellent climax as the events unfold at the end. ...more In this installment, it is the year 1543 and Matthew Shardlake, the hunchback lawyer, has been promoted to Serjeant in the Court of Requests by Archbishop Cranmer. Cranmer owes Shardlake big-time after the events of the last book and Matthew is quite happy with his life and his work. Unfortunately, Matthew's peaceful existance is interrupted when his dear friend, Roger Elliard, is murdered in a most horrific and public way. Matthew vows to bring the killer to justice but there is much more to th In this installment, it is the year 1543 and Matthew Shardlake, the hunchback lawyer, has been promoted to Serjeant in the Court of Requests by Archbishop Cranmer. Cranmer owes Shardlake big-time after the events of the last book and Matthew is quite happy with his life and his work. Unfortunately, Matthew's peaceful existance is interrupted when his dear friend, Roger Elliard, is murdered in a most horrific and public way. Matthew vows to bring the killer to justice but there is much more to the story than Matthew realizes. There is a serial killer on the loose in London and once Matthew begins his investigation, the killer's attention is turned to him. With the help of his assistant Jack Barak and his good friend Dr. Guy Malton, Matthew takes on a case more dangerous than any he has taken on before. I love this series! The historical aspects of the time are very well done, and I got a great sense of the religious tensions and fear that must have pervaded London and King Henry VIII got nuttier and nuttier. The approach to mental health and descriptions of \"the Bedlam\" and how it was run were also very interesting. The mystery was very well-done and the chase for the killer was exciting. I was still guessing who the killer really was all the way through! ...more As a confirmed Sansom addict, I now believe that the four Shardlake novels show an admirable progression. Revelation crowns a notable achievement. In Dissolution, the claustrophobic limitations of the community at Scarnsea and the largely indistinguishable monks were the down side. The pluses were originality of scene and the personality of the hunchback lawyer himself. Evidence of the author's feel for place and period led one hopefully to Dark Fire, and in the matter of authentic atmosphere on As a confirmed Sansom addict, I now believe that the four Shardlake novels show an admirable progression. Revelation crowns a notable achievement. In Dissolution, the claustrophobic limitations of the community at Scarnsea and the largely indistinguishable monks were the down side. The pluses were originality of scene and the personality of the hunchback lawyer himself. Evidence of the author's feel for place and period led one hopefully to Dark Fire, and in the matter of authentic atmosphere one was not disappointed. The d\u00e9nouement - a long passage of \"Before I kill you let me explain everything\" - creaked a bit and earned minus marks; the great gain was the introduction of Jack Barak, a fully-fashioned character worthy to ride beside Shardlake. Sovereign felt like Sansom maturing into complete control of his territory: historical background matched by character development. Moreover, now Barak acquired a partner in the feisty Tamasin. So to Revelation. I share the reservations expressed elsewhere about the validity of a serial killer theme in Tudor clothes, and the odd jarring anachronism (\"back to square one\" for example). But the characters continue to develop: Shardlake in his agnosticism; the introspection of the black monk, Guy; and the stormy relationship of Barak and Tamasin. Overall, the author has taken on a challenging set of themes - the murders take place against, and are interwoven with, a background of religious persecution and failure to understand the nature of madness. His success, for this reader at least, is impressively convincing. One big question remains: are the Shardlake chronicles at an end? Revelation closes with one or two issues left dangling. Devotees will live in hope. ...more Ve\u0107 zvu\u010dim poput papagaja ali Sansom me je tako razmazio sa svojim djelima da uvijek iznova, s nestrpljenjem, \u010dekam sljede\u0107u. Bettie's Books Yet another Tudor mystery from the best of the best. After Henry VIII broke with the Catholic Church and made himself head of the Church of England, he just couldn\u2019t make his mind up. Definitely Protestant.....maybe a wee bit less Protestant...... maybe a bit more Catholic. As he swung back and forth people rose and fell from favour, some losing their heads in the process. It was a time when your religious affiliations could carry heavy penalties. In this hothouse world of shifting religious dog Yet another Tudor mystery from the best of the best. After Henry VIII broke with the Catholic Church and made himself head of the Church of England, he just couldn\u2019t make his mind up. Definitely Protestant.....maybe a wee bit less Protestant...... maybe a bit more Catholic. As he swung back and forth people rose and fell from favour, some losing their heads in the process. It was a time when your religious affiliations could carry heavy penalties. In this hothouse world of shifting religious dogma, and the stress of the dissolution of the monasteries, many people clutched at the rantings of the fundamentalist churches. Shardlake\u2019s client is suffering with religious mania, and is put away in Bedlam for his own safety, least he be found preaching in the streets, and charged as a heretic. In Bedlam he is treated by Shardlake\u2019s wise physician friend Guy Malton. Meanwhile, we see our favourite barrister once again emeshed in politics \u2013 a dangerous place where he least wants to be - as he and his sidekick Barak pursue a violent killer through murder after murder. The storyline is gripping, and the threads of the plot come together superbly well. It\u2019s a pleasure to follow Shardlake in his detective work. It is also a pleasure to enjoy the friendship that Shardlake shares with several people in the book. He\u2019s a good friend to a lot of people. He never stands in the sidelines when there are difficult emotional issues, but is a true friend to his friends. Sometimes a true friend to his enemies as well. As always with the Shardlake novels, there is an incredible sense of time and place. You feel drenched in Tudor culture. From a lady\u2019s false teeth (made from wood and human teeth) falling out at a dinner party, to tenuous steps towards medicine based on real anatomy, to the intricacies of a basic sewage system....plus the whole teaming ant hill that is Tudor London. It\u2019s all there \u2013 beautifully evoked. My one sadness is that I have now read all the books in the series, and shall have to wait on tenterhooks with the rest of his fans until another one is written. Write quickly Mr. Sansom. ...more So, we are now up to Catherine Parr. Lady Latimer is being pursued by Henry after he's successfully managed to kill off his latest young wife, Catherine Howard. Matthew, yet again, is going to be dragged into these great events. But as with the other novels of this superb series, Matthew is also involved in a more human mystery--in this novel that of a young boy who inexplicably begins to rant and rave about salvation and has been locked away in bedlam for his own protection (it's dangerous to s So, we are now up to Catherine Parr. Lady Latimer is being pursued by Henry after he's successfully managed to kill off his latest young wife, Catherine Howard. Matthew, yet again, is going to be dragged into these great events. But as with the other novels of this superb series, Matthew is also involved in a more human mystery--in this novel that of a young boy who inexplicably begins to rant and rave about salvation and has been locked away in bedlam for his own protection (it's dangerous to speak about religion at all because what is allowed changes as often as Henry changes his wives). Why has the boy suddenly flipped? Is he mad? Is he a prophet? The relevance of history never ceases to amaze me. Only today I was reading about a young woman who had used a lip sucking device to create the pout of a celebrity whose name escapes me. The young woman was bemoaning the bruising and pain this device had caused her. The comments on the article were very amusing--people shocked and \"what's the world coming to\" and \"this shows the dangers of the modern celebrity culture\"... I had a chuckle. In Book 3 of this series, Matthew is invited to a \"sugar party\". The rich Tudors celebrating their wealth by throwing dinners where everything is made of sugar. So...rotting teeth for the first time in England. BUT, only the rich had blackened teeth because only the rich could afford sugar, so having black, rotten teeth was ADMIRED and COPIED and Matthew at one point bemoans the current fashion of women deliberately taking the enamel off their teeth and rotting them to black so it appears to the world they were rich enough to eat sugar. The irony is delightful. In the same book it described how a grandmother makes two young girls put belladonna drops in their eyes so the pupils widen to make them look more attractive (that it poisons them and makes them blind is ignored). Already women were painting their faces with lead to kill off the top layer of skin to mimic the paleness of the purest of Englishwomen. So, no, pouty lips and following dumb celebrities is not new at all. The more history you read the more you realise how things never change. Take the current debates on free speech...I mean who would have thought you could be reading a novel set in a time of burnings and beheadings for faith in a time of the resurgence of a faith which preaches beheadings and burnings... reading and studying history actually used to be more fun because you could lift your head from your book and look around congratulating yourself on the modern world we've achieved from all these trials and tribulations. Hmm. Anyway, I'll update when this one is done. These books are just superb and I can't rate them highly enough. Finished: Another triumph in this series. Matthew and Jack have to get to grips with a serial killer. I put that in modern terms because, of course, they had no experience of this concept--killing for pleasure. They had less knowledge of the brain and its possible disorders than they did about the body, and that's saying something. What I love about these books is that gruesome killings can occur (this killer is following the book of Revelations and the vials of the angels spilling wrath upon the earth) but they aren't the focus. The book concentrates more upon the effect these killings have on Matthew and Jack, Guy (Matthew's doctor friend) and the others who are caught up in the events. Perhaps we've become too inured to violence, to bizarre serial killer murders (and I speak as a huge fan of Hannibal where people can be grown into trees?) to appreciate a nuanced book about the shock such things can bring on. But shaken as he already is from the events of the first three novels, losing his belief in God, Matthew is shaken to the core by the madness he has to encounter in this story. It's heartbreaking. Brilliant novel, highly recommended. Read the series in order though for maximum enjoyment. ...more So, time for the review. I absolutely love this series; it is clever, enticing and really gets your detective skills working. The one thing I adore is the underlying plot of the book is all based on fact while the main plot line is pure, exciting fiction. Shard lake is becoming stronger, he is more and more successful and is starting to be more commanding of people, and rightly so. However, Barak lost some of my respect in this book due to his drunken antics, mainly due to grief il grant you but i So, time for the review. I absolutely love this series; it is clever, enticing and really gets your detective skills working. The one thing I adore is the underlying plot of the book is all based on fact while the main plot line is pure, exciting fiction. Shard lake is becoming stronger, he is more and more successful and is starting to be more commanding of people, and rightly so. However, Barak lost some of my respect in this book due to his drunken antics, mainly due to grief il grant you but it just highlights the same old story of men feeling sorry for themselves while the women carry on with life. This book is filled with twists and turns, it couldn't put it down. You second guess everyone you come into contact with and the murders are cleverly thought up and described. It is such an incredible book, possibly my favourite of the series, so I could keep going with this review but I won't, il just say read it!! ...more Another great read in the Shardlake series. A little heavy on the religious side as the mystery involves passages from the bible but it's not preachy. Edited: I debated about giving this one 5 stars and decided to go ahead and do it. It's really well-done and was great fun to read. 5 star worthy for sure. Another winning Matthew Shardlake mystery. C.J. Sansom 's writing lets you see and smell London circa 1543. Add a serial killer who uses The Book of Revelations as a How To guide and you have a winning mystery. My favorite \" crookback\" was a little snippier this time around- which just made him that much more adorable :) Book four in my favorite historical mystery series. For a further review: http://susannag.booklikes.com/post/60... . It's Spring 1543 and in London an increasingly disabled and despotic King Henry VIII is trying his best to gain the hand of marriage from Lady Catherine Parr. Religious fervour and fanaticism continues to effect everyone's lives in Tudor England. We welcome back our enigmatic hunchback lawyer, Matthew Shardlake and his very able assistant Jack Barak for the fourth book in C.J.Sansom's excellent Shardlake series. In Revelation, Shardlake takes up the case of a young man called Adam Kite who has b It's Spring 1543 and in London an increasingly disabled and despotic King Henry VIII is trying his best to gain the hand of marriage from Lady Catherine Parr. Religious fervour and fanaticism continues to effect everyone's lives in Tudor England. We welcome back our enigmatic hunchback lawyer, Matthew Shardlake and his very able assistant Jack Barak for the fourth book in C.J.Sansom's excellent Shardlake series. In Revelation, Shardlake takes up the case of a young man called Adam Kite who has been locked up in Bedlam an early asylum for the insane in London with a fearsome reputation, his madness leads him to shout obscenities and religious texts aloud in public leading him to be locked up. Shardlake is doing his best to support Adam's parents and to prevent Adam from being burned at the stake as a heretic. Without warning Matthew's good friend Roger Elliard is discovered horrifically murdered, a promise to Roger's widow to investigate leads him into a case of gruesome murders by a Tudor serial killer based on the Book of Revelation. Can Matthew Shardlake along with his assistant Jack and his physician friend Guy discover the identity of the killer before more innocent people are murdered and why does his investigation lead to the doors of Lady Catherine Parr herself? Part of the enjoyment of these books are the wonderful characters especially Matthew Shardlake, you feel like you know him after a few chapters. The Tudor setting is very detailed and historically accurate. Sansom has definitely done his research on a period of English history that is most often misinterpreted. A great read once again, I love these books, I have to give it four stars rather than five as it did seem to wander a little in places and I kept thinking to myself \"will you get to the point\" but overall I enjoyed it and look forward to reading book five Heartstone. ...more I feel like I\u2019ve stumbled on a real treasure with C J Sansom\u2019s Shardlake series. Revelation was absolutely delightful. It engaged my attention straight away and held it gripped from the very first page to the last! This is classic mystery-unravelling and crime writing in the tradition of Agatha Christie, Arthur Conan Doyle, and Edith Pargeter. Every single scene advances the plot, there\u2019s no unnecessary fluff, the story is well-constructed and thoughtful. Moreover, Sansom\u2019s writing is subtle, in I feel like I\u2019ve stumbled on a real treasure with C J Sansom\u2019s Shardlake series. Revelation was absolutely delightful. It engaged my attention straight away and held it gripped from the very first page to the last! This is classic mystery-unravelling and crime writing in the tradition of Agatha Christie, Arthur Conan Doyle, and Edith Pargeter. Every single scene advances the plot, there\u2019s no unnecessary fluff, the story is well-constructed and thoughtful. Moreover, Sansom\u2019s writing is subtle, intelligent, and compelling \u2013 and so is his protagonist, Matthew Shardlake. I was not able to predict what would happen, or who the murderer was, and the book definitely kept me on my toes. I definitely have to describe Revelation as a page-turner, as I really could barely put it down over the couple of days that I read it. The attention to historical detail is marvellous, but it definitely takes second place to the spurring mystery plot. This is the fourth book in the series but I had no problems whatsoever jumping in at this point; past events are mentioned but they are not crucial at all to know about in order to thoroughly enjoy Revelation . Don\u2019t really have anything else to say about this one! Short but sweet review from me. I definitely want to read the other books in the series. 8 out of 10 ...more As with Dissolution, the other book from this series that I've read, the history in this story is much stronger than the mystery. Sansom presents characters representing the diversity of religious though in mid sixteenth century England. They interact in believable, thought provoking conversations and are tested in various ways by each turn of events. The 1540s were a stressful time in England - the Catholic Church was dissolved, but the tide was turning against the Lutheran reformers. Basically As with Dissolution, the other book from this series that I've read, the history in this story is much stronger than the mystery. Sansom presents characters representing the diversity of religious though in mid sixteenth century England. They interact in believable, thought provoking conversations and are tested in various ways by each turn of events. The 1540s were a stressful time in England - the Catholic Church was dissolved, but the tide was turning against the Lutheran reformers. Basically, everyone believes something that is punishable as heresy. The conflicts of the church ring true both from a historical perspective and through the individual lives of the characters. Less intriguing was the mystery itself. I think the book was somewhat bogged down by its length. Over 500 pages is a lot of time to spend riding horses through cold London streets, looking for clues. Even the murders themselves start to seem unnecessarily drawn out. The killer believes he's following a Biblical order to murder seven people to bring about the end times (as foretold in Revelation), but the only victim we feel connected to is Shardlake's good friend. The rest of the murders seem like ways to work grisly details into the story as we get the body count up to the proper number. ...more The Matthew Shardlake series is excellent, well-written historical mysteries. Revelation was no exception. The story is set in 1543, Henry VIII trying to get Catherine Parr's hand in marriage as his 6th wife and Shardlake and his assistant Barak, on the hunt of a fanatic trying to act out the punishments outlined the Revelation. As well, he must try and keep a young man, who has been sent to the insane asylum, Bedlam, from being burned at the stake as a heretic. Compounding his situation, London The Matthew Shardlake series is excellent, well-written historical mysteries. Revelation was no exception. The story is set in 1543, Henry VIII trying to get Catherine Parr's hand in marriage as his 6th wife and Shardlake and his assistant Barak, on the hunt of a fanatic trying to act out the punishments outlined the Revelation. As well, he must try and keep a young man, who has been sent to the insane asylum, Bedlam, from being burned at the stake as a heretic. Compounding his situation, London is being tormented by religious fanatics, trying make political gain against Archbishop Cranmer. Shardlake has many extreme situations to deal with as he tries to solve the crimes of a mad serial killer. Moves along so nicely, enough twists and turns to keep you on your toes as you try to solve along with Shardlake and enough historical reference of the time to educate as well. Excellent story. ...more A very nice read. It's long and rambling, but I enjoyed the setting so much that I didn't mind the slow pace. The author is still not at his best with action scenes, but there aren't many in this book so it doesn't distract. The inclusion of famous historical characters (Catherine Parr, Thomas Cranmer and the Seymours) seemed more natural than in previous books. The story features a serial killer and the killings are very gruesome and disturbing, more so than you find in a typical murder mystery. Settling in with a new Shardlake novel is like meeting an old and much-loved friend. This one is a take on the 'serial killer' genre but with a Tudor twist, which allows the author to explore the religious in-fighting of the time while recreating the filth, poverty and sheer terror of a London ruled by an increasingly repulsive and dangerous Henry VIII. I've only given it 4 stars because I can't give everything 5 stars, which isn't a very good reason really. Superb. As with all the other books in the Shardlake series this was another edge of the seat page turner set in Tudor England in Henry VIII reign, our hero lawyer Matthew Shardlake becomes involved in finding a seriel killer. As Henry VIII hopes to marry his sixth wife, Catherine Parr, a religious zealot murders in the manner of the Book of Revelations in the Bible. Getting through the Shardlake series for a 2nd time & SO enjoying my time in Tudor London once again. In my opinion C.J.Sansom takes some beating with historical novels. Onto the next one! One more amazing story about Matthew Shardlake. When I first started to read Sansom, I didn't think he'll become one of my favorite writers. His novels are well written, descriptions are great, in some cases I almost could feel the smell of London. :D While reading, I can imagine myself on London streets, and I really enjoy with Matthew in his adventures. En lue kovin paljon dekkareita, mutta C.J. Sansomin Matthew Shardlake -sarjasta on muodostunut s\u00e4\u00e4nn\u00f6n vahvistava poikkeus. Niinp\u00e4 sarjan nelj\u00e4s kirja \"Ilmestys\" (Otava, 2016) t\u00e4ytyi heti ensi tilassa lainata kirjastosta. Vuoteen 1543 sijoittuvassa romaanissa elet\u00e4\u00e4n tilanteessa, jossa uskonpuhdistuksen ja vastauskonpuhdistuksen kannattajien v\u00e4liset ristiriidat ovat k\u00e4rjistyneet \u00e4\u00e4rimmilleen. Matthew Shardlaken hyv\u00e4 yst\u00e4v\u00e4 l\u00f6ydet\u00e4\u00e4n surmattuna, ja kyttyr\u00e4selk\u00e4inen asianajajamme antaa leskelle kun En lue kovin paljon dekkareita, mutta C.J. Sansomin Matthew Shardlake -sarjasta on muodostunut s\u00e4\u00e4nn\u00f6n vahvistava poikkeus. Niinp\u00e4 sarjan nelj\u00e4s kirja \"Ilmestys\" (Otava, 2016) t\u00e4ytyi heti ensi tilassa lainata kirjastosta. Vuoteen 1543 sijoittuvassa romaanissa elet\u00e4\u00e4n tilanteessa, jossa uskonpuhdistuksen ja vastauskonpuhdistuksen kannattajien v\u00e4liset ristiriidat ovat k\u00e4rjistyneet \u00e4\u00e4rimmilleen. Matthew Shardlaken hyv\u00e4 yst\u00e4v\u00e4 l\u00f6ydet\u00e4\u00e4n surmattuna, ja kyttyr\u00e4selk\u00e4inen asianajajamme antaa leskelle kunniasanansa selvitt\u00e4\u00e4 kuka on verity\u00f6n takana. Pian k\u00e4y ilmi ett\u00e4 uhreja on useampia, ja tekojan pohjalla n\u00e4ytt\u00e4isi olevan uskonnollinen motiivi. Sarjamurhaajan teot vaikuttaisivat pohjautuvan Ilmestyskirjaan ja siin\u00e4 kerrottuun tarinaan seitsem\u00e4st\u00e4 enkelist\u00e4, jotka vuodattavat vihan maljoja ihmiskunnan p\u00e4\u00e4lle. Sivujuonteena tarinassa kulkevat Bedlamin mielisairaalaan suljetun pojan tapaus, Barak-palvelijan ja h\u00e4nen vaimonsa Tamasinin parisuhde ja l\u00e4\u00e4k\u00e4riyst\u00e4v\u00e4 Guyn henkil\u00f6kohtaiseen el\u00e4m\u00e4\u00e4n liittyv\u00e4t ongelmat. V\u00e4hempikin olisi ehk\u00e4 riitt\u00e4nyt, kirjalla kun on muutenkin mittaa yli 600 sivua. Sansom k\u00e4ytt\u00e4\u00e4 aitoja historiallisia henkil\u00f6it\u00e4 tarinansa sivuhahmoina. Nyt mukana vilist\u00e4v\u00e4t muun muassa Henrik VIII:n kuudes ja viimeinen vaimo Katariina Parr ja my\u00f6hemmin monessa mukana ollut aatelismies Thomas Seymour. Lis\u00e4ksi romaani tarjoilee ihan mielenkiintoisia faktoja 1500-luvun uskonnollisista tavoista kuin arkiel\u00e4m\u00e4st\u00e4, kuten vaikkapa niinkin j\u00e4nnitt\u00e4v\u00e4st\u00e4 asiasta kuin tekohampaat. 1500-luku rinnastuu hetkitt\u00e4in my\u00f6s nykyaikaan, niin kerj\u00e4l\u00e4isten ja yhteiskunnan v\u00e4h\u00e4osaisten kuvauksessa kuin uskonnollisen fundalismin aiheuttamassa v\u00e4kivallassakin. Viihdyin taas vallan mainiosti, ainakin kolmen ja puolen t\u00e4hden edest\u00e4. Nelj\u00e4sk\u00e4\u00e4n mollukka ei olisi ollut v\u00e4\u00e4ryys, mutta ehk\u00e4 aikaisemmat osat - erityisesti Itsevaltias - ovat olleet niin hyvi\u00e4, ett\u00e4 \"Ilmestys\" j\u00e4\u00e4 v\u00e4kisinkin niiden varjoon. ...more", "Title": "Revelation"},
