{"Comments": "I refuse to stain this small perfect book with a long review. This short novel is a dream: the kind you dip into,<---M> just for a drowsy second</---M>, yet wake from to find youself still immersed in a great epic--wounded by its sorrow, giddy with its marvels\u2014all visited upon you in the blink of an eye. The story of Robert Grainier, a laborer in the Great Northwest during the first third of the last century, is full of tragedy, tall tales, temporal dislocations, homespun humor, plain-speaking, and supernatur I refuse to stain this small perfect book with a long review. This short novel is a dream: the kind you dip into, just for a drowsy second, yet wake from to find youself still immersed in a great epic--wounded by its sorrow, giddy with its marvels\u2014all visited upon you in the blink of an eye. The story of Robert Grainier, a laborer in the Great Northwest during the first third of the last century, is full of tragedy, tall tales, temporal dislocations, homespun humor, plain-speaking, and supernatural visitations. It is the \u201cGreat American Novel\u201d reduced to a handful of fragments, then forged anew, as if by magic, into prose as concentrated as a lyric poem. <+++>Train Dreams</+++> is a short dream well worth having, a short dream that lasts a long time. ...more \u2018 God needs the hermit in the woods as much as He needs the man in the pulpit .\u2019 <---A>Denis Johnson</---A>\u2019s <+++>Train Dreams</+++> , a novella shortlisted as a \u2018Best Book of 2011\u2019 by almost everyone from the New York Times to Esquire , and also considered for the Pulitzer, is a haunting little book that blossoms from the vine of American history. Spanning from the turn of the 20th century up until the late 60s, Johnson positions the reader to watch as the American west is transfigured by the technological growth of the n \u2018 God needs the hermit in the woods as much as He needs the man in the pulpit .\u2019 Denis Johnson\u2019s Train Dreams , a novella shortlisted as a \u2018Best Book of 2011\u2019 by almost everyone from the New York Times to Esquire , and also considered for the Pulitzer, is a haunting little book that blossoms from the vine of American history. Spanning from the turn of the 20th century up until the late 60s, Johnson positions the reader to watch as the American west is transfigured by the technological growth of the nation, while ultimately exposing the hidden, untouched and nearly mythical qualities of the wild. Following with Robert Grainier, a common man living among extraordinary times, Johnson plays with the forces that shape a nations destiny while paying homage to the myths and legends of the wild world that continue to lurk in the dark recesses left untouched by the future. The prose simply glistens in this novella. Johnson manages to rope epic proportions into concise, economical statements of pure beauty. From descriptions of a dirty, scraggly hobo dying in the woods: \u2018 he had the impression of a mouth hole moving in a stack of leaves and rags and matted brown hair \u2019, to the sprawling landscapes Grainier travels, Johnson packs such sheer power into short, pregnant phrases. The descriptions of the land is as breathtaking as the actual sights must be, such as the passage following the great fire of the Moyea Valley: \u2019 It had gutted the valley along its entire length like a campfire in a ditch. All his life Robert Grainier would remember vividly the burned valley at sundown, the most dreamlike business he\u2019d ever witnessed waking\u2014 the brilliant pastels of the last light overhead, some clouds high and white, catching daylight from beyond the valley, others ribbed and gray and pink, the lowest of them rubbing the peaks of Bussard and Queen mountains; and beneath this wondrous sky the black valley, utterly still, the train moving through it making a great noise but unable to wake this dead world. \u2019 The land is as much of a character as Grainier himself, living and breathing across the pages and imposing its deadly will upon the men that try to tame it. The land takes on mythical proportions as a force stronger that man, progression, and even refusing to bow to word of God. \u2018 If the Lord had failed to protect even the book of his own Word, this proved to Grainier that here had come a fire stronger than God. \u2019 The collision of myth and modernism is the spark that keeps this novel burning on. Grainier, more a legend than man himself having no past beyond showing up in town upon a train as a small child, exists in a world of myth and mystery that watches the future unroll train, planes, automobiles, television and other technological advances upon the earth. The world steps out of the dark mythical world into the bright light of technology, silencing superstitions with science and mystery with rationality. The old world is pushed back as the land is cleared and cultivated, cities blooming where once stood tall trees, and the myths shrink away as demons and evil spirits are replaced by the power and money hungry foes that wear human faces. \u2019 The Kootenais, wedded as they were known to be to pagan and superstitious practice, would fall pray completely to Satan. Before the matter ended, only fire and blood would purge the valley\u2026 But these were the malicious speculations of idle minds, and, when the election season came, the demons of the silver standard and the railroad land snatch took their attention, and the mysteries in the hills around the Moyea Valley were forgotten for awhile. \u2019 Grainier was born and dies with the myth. His life flows alongside it, believing the curse of a \u2018Chinaman\u2019, whom he attempted to kill, caused his misfortunes, and he remains amongst the mystery of the forest despite all the modern advances. Even when faced with them head on, he seems relatively unfazed and unimpressed (the nose dive in an airplane ride rattles him a bit, but he ultimately walks away without having been all that amazed), whereas the stories and legends of the wild chill him to the core. He converses with ghosts and howls with the wolves at night, being, as Kootenai Bob explains, \u2018tamed\u2019 by the wolves and wild. Grainier is the mythological woodsman, one with nature, like a Pan, and it isn\u2019t the howl of wolves that haunt his dreams but the howl of a train engine in the dark distance that sets an eerie tone. To him, modernism is the myth and aberration. The final, beautiful paragraph offers a blend of the myth and modernism as a howl chills us to the core, transforming from that of a hot-blooded beast to that of cold technology mixed with that of music as if it were a auditory timeline of American history. While this slim novella has extraordinary writing, some chilling scenes and an overall mythical message that is fun to toss about while lying awake in the dark (this book is best read in the depths of night while listening to the howling wind), it fell a bit short for me considering it was considered for a Pulitzer. The book is great, and perhaps it is my own shortcomings having not been able to really focus on the book and reading only a scant few pages a day for a week, but it left me underwhelmed and nearly as unchanged as Grainier by modern technology. This book is probably best read in a single sitting - in that case following Poe\u2019s theory of a short story aiming at a single, unified effect upon the reader might allow the beauty to really shine \u2013 and I almost wish it had been a novella contained in a larger collection of short stories. Johnson really is something of a visionary and a dreamweaver with this book, so it is a bit difficult to dismiss it, yet I couldn\u2019t help hold it up against Hamsun\u2019s Growth of the Soil . Hamsun\u2019s novel is constructed around many of the same themes, although following the changes etched into a Norwegian landscape as opposed to the American West, yet handled in a subtle manner and covering a much broader scope of ideas and their effects upon a community instead of a single quiet hermit. One thing I felt Johnson really excelled at was his manner of presenting events without following a linear timeline. By fluctuating between past and present, it allows a reader to receive Grainier as a whole, as opposed to a man \u2018in his present\u2019. The lack of difference in him through the years following the loss of his family highlights his indifference to the modern world. It was the land that claimed his love, so with the land he will stay. Despite my own lukewarm reception, Train Dreams will echo like a ghostly train whistle in the back of your head for days to follow. The writing is crisp and chilling, the themes powerful and fueled through a potent portrait of the American West at the turn of the century. This was my first foray into Johnson\u2019s works, but it has left me with a promise to myself to return very soon. Short and full of life, this novella is a great way to ride the rails across a changing nation. 3.5/5 \u2018 Beyond, he saw the Canadian Rockies still sunlit, snow-peaked, a hundred miles away, as if the earth were in the midst of its creation, the mountains taking their substance out of the clouds. He\u2019d never seen so grand a prospect. The forests that filled is life were so thickly populous and so tall that generally they blocked him from seeing how far away the world was, but right now it seemed clear there were mountains enough for everybody to get his own\u2026 \u2019 Also, it doesn\u2019t seem right talking about trains without a little W.Guthrie. ...more I finished this book a few days ago and still it haunts me. During and shortly after reading it I got frustrated by all the apparent symbolism that I couldn't for the life of me put together. But stepping back and thinking about it from a non-intellectual point of view, it is just an evocative and gorgeously written book. Much of the writing is very simple and matter-of-fact, but then without you really noticing it he transitions into a very beautiful and poetic passage. There are three such pas I finished this book a few days ago and still it haunts me. During and shortly after reading it I got frustrated by all the apparent symbolism that I couldn't for the life of me put together. But stepping back and thinking about it from a non-intellectual point of view, it is just an evocative and gorgeously written book. Much of the writing is very simple and matter-of-fact, but then without you really noticing it he transitions into a very beautiful and poetic passage. There are three such passages that will stay with me for a long time I'm sure: (1) the fire and then the regeneration of the forest, (2) the wolves coming to him at night and brushing past him in the doorway (I won't spoil it for you and say what the wolves were bringing him...) and (3) the very last paragraph of the book. That last paragraph really made me shudder. Aside from the very beginning, I read it all in one sitting and really recommend you set aside the two hours or so to read it all at once and read it slowly. ...<---F>more \"He very often wept in church</---F>. Living up the Moyea with plenty of small chores to distract him, he forgot he was a sad man. When the hymns began, he remembered.\" I sometimes wonder if I'm a natural reader. There are moments, like the greater part of last year, where there's nothing I like more, and whichever book that comes my way will be devoured in short notice. Other times, like the last couple of months, I become more picky, books don't manage to grab a hold of me due to other distractions th \"He very often wept in church. Living up the Moyea with plenty of small chores to distract him, he forgot he was a sad man. When the hymns began, he remembered.\" I sometimes wonder if I'm a natural reader. There are moments, like the greater part of last year, where there's nothing I like more, and whichever book that comes my way will be devoured in short notice. Other times, like the last couple of months, I become more picky, books don't manage to grab a hold of me due to other distractions that monopolize my mind, and only the right book at the right time can snap me back to the place I know is wonderful. The place that is books and the stories they tell. But life sometimes has a way of shutting the doors to that magical garden. With Train Dreams I've found a book that opened those doors again. The right book at the right time. I'm still rusty on the reviews, my fingers literaly feel wooden as I type this up, so this will be a short one. Given it's a short book counting a mere 116 pages one might think this is adequate, but don't let the number of pages fool you: this is a gem, of which it's impossible to say everything given the many ways light can shine on it. Basically, it tells the story of Robert Grainer, so it is actually a fictional biography of sorts. We are told of the most important moments in his life, how he met his foster family, his wife, what kind of jobs he worked on, a depiction of his daily routine and his life-defining moments. Robert Grainer is not a special man, with no talents or traits that make him stand out in any way. Aside from the spot-on depiction of the hard life of an early 1900's man working in and living off the forest, making an enemy out of the trees, the book also contains a mysterious aspect of dreams, visions, strange behavior and mystical creatures. Cataclysmic events are told in the same tone as a trip to the fair, making this book the perfect blend of raw, realistic impressions of physical hardships mixed with the more ethereal mental consequences of coating emotions with the ashes of losses lived through. When reading this particular brew it's easy to get in the flow of a dream, of a train ride, allowing the words to take you wherever, whenever. And once in a while that flow is obstructed with a nugget of a pure emotion, a sense of loneliness or sadness whose description stands out like a mountain in the rest of this book, the kind of nugget that makes you wake up from that dream because it's become too real. You give it some thought, lie your head down and before you know it you're back on the train. This book has been a subtle, well-balanced experience of profound thought and the lightness of everyday life. Don't let the title of Train Dreams fool you, for it's the real thing. I heartily recommend it! ...more Honestly, I don\u2019t know anymore where reading ends and real life begins - the border between the two is getting hazier and hazier. Take Thursday evening, for example. I was on a train finishing a book called A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing . A powerful book, such a powerful book that when I\u2019d finished, I needed a distraction so I took out my iPad to see if I had a book on the ereader app to help me pass the rest of the journey pleasantly. Train Dreams seemed perfect at a little over a hundred pages, Honestly, I don\u2019t know anymore where reading ends and real life begins - the border between the two is getting hazier and hazier. Take Thursday evening, for example. I was on a train finishing a book called A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing . A powerful book, such a powerful book that when I\u2019d finished, I needed a distraction so I took out my iPad to see if I had a book on the ereader app to help me pass the rest of the journey pleasantly. Train Dreams seemed perfect at a little over a hundred pages, and so it proved to be from a timing point of view because I finished it just as the late night train rolled into the sleepy station. And so home to bed, nearly dead with fatigue - I\u2019d been travelling since early morning - train, plane, train. Home to my comfy bed - I\u2019d been dreaming of it for hours. But it\u2019s not such a great place sometimes, a comfy bed and dream time. Not when you've read two powerful books one after the other. The title of the first book, A Girl Is a Half-formed Thing echoed a very disturbing episode in Train Dreams and my subconscious latched on to that parallel and wouldn\u2019t let go. My dreams just got weirder and weirder. I was some half-formed thing, some half-wolf/half girl-child roaming the hillsides of Idaho with a pack of wolves, howling at the moon. I was never so glad to wake up. That was three days ago and I\u2019ve not opened a book since. ...more Owing to the fact that I have read the semi-autobiographical short story collection Jesus' Son a few times (and you should absolutely do that), I had a wrong-headed assumption about the subject matter of this novella. Based partly on the title, I figured this would be a more modern take on the same territory in JS , of the grim realities and screwed up interpersonal dynamics of off the grid types, namely junkies and alcoholics who haven't done their taxes in a decade and smell like cigarettes, pa Owing to the fact that I have read the semi-autobiographical short story collection Jesus' Son a few times (and you should absolutely do that), I had a wrong-headed assumption about the subject matter of this novella. Based partly on the title, I figured this would be a more modern take on the same territory in JS , of the grim realities and screwed up interpersonal dynamics of off the grid types, namely junkies and alcoholics who haven't done their taxes in a decade and smell like cigarettes, patchouli, and musky rot. I guess I thought that instead of sticking to the 1970's era fuckhead sort, it would focus more directly on your garden variety heroin-addicted, train-hopping oogle type, the sort of folks who look at you like you're single-handedly setting feminism back 50 years when you say it's insane for a young girl to thumb rides, but don't mind enough to not drink all your beer and eat your spoiled leftovers. I was intrigued by this non-existent premise because spotting characters from my reality makes me feel dimly special, like I'm back in the green room with the author having an incredibly stimulating conversation about silly people and their silly phases in this big, silly world. I'm glad I was wrong, because it lead to me reading this tiny, wistful piece about grief, loneliness, lust, American modernization, superstition, and the small wonders and giant horrors that abound over the span of a lifetime. It's fitting that this book is so tiny, as it covers all the major events of a simple man's birth to death cycle, and those moments are few and far between, ranging from tragic to crazy to fairly unremarkable to anyone but him. Given the size, I really shouldn't reveal too much about the man's history, but the novella has a feel and tone to it which reminded me a bit of The Straight Story . Just as I found in Jesus' Son , Denis Johnson - or \"Penis Johnson\" as one of my roommates calls him due to being irked by the name-spelling - has a way of making his sentences wash over you like mist, an elegantly effortless drizzle of big feelings in very few words. It just flows. You care about this man, you hurt from his loss, the wolf girl spooks you too, you feel his horrible epiphany of thoughtless, self-imposed isolation and sexual frustration, and you just want to kiss his booboos and lie-tell him it'll all be fine some day. There's a whole lotta love in this little package. I feel pretty safe recommending you check this out, since you can and will knock it out in one sitting. The physical act of reading this feels like waking abruptly and jotting out a particularly bizarre, poignant dream, then going over it searching for guidance and self-understanding within your brain's droppings. Oh, and I also recommend that Penis Johnson writes a book about train-hoppin' squatter kids, because I still want to read about that through his lovely, incisive voice. ...more A solid story, sad and satisfying, one which might, initially, provoke feelings of d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu in those who\u2019ve read A Prayer for the Dying . An American mountain man, stoic and self-sufficient, enjoys an all too brief period of love and intimacy before tragedy and loss impose, and he\u2019s left to fend for and only for himself. Johnson\u2019s gentle prose resists a stereotype, rendering the protagonist credible and admirable. The inevitable wolf-girl scene defies belief but situates the story in a mythic trad A solid story, sad and satisfying, one which might, initially, provoke feelings of d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu in those who\u2019ve read A Prayer for the Dying . An American mountain man, stoic and self-sufficient, enjoys an all too brief period of love and intimacy before tragedy and loss impose, and he\u2019s left to fend for and only for himself. Johnson\u2019s gentle prose resists a stereotype, rendering the protagonist credible and admirable. The inevitable wolf-girl scene defies belief but situates the story in a mythic tradition that prevents a reader\u2019s outright rejection. Johnson captures an era, a majestic landscape, and the heroic decency of a past which one hopes was real and not merely individualism romanticized. A good one\u2014quick, thoughtful, well worth the brief time and effort required. ...more This is a brief novella, easily readable in one sitting; well written and lyrical. It is a third person historical tale about the life of Robert Grainier spanning the period from the 1880s to the 1960s with the depression of the 1930s standing out in the background. Grainier is a manual worker who works over the years on the railroads, logging, transporting; but generally earning from the sweat of his brow. Grainier is an ordinary man with hopes and dreams, a decent man who suffers loss and trag This is a brief novella, easily readable in one sitting; well written and lyrical. It is a third person historical tale about the life of Robert Grainier spanning the period from the 1880s to the 1960s with the depression of the 1930s standing out in the background. Grainier is a manual worker who works over the years on the railroads, logging, transporting; but generally earning from the sweat of his brow. Grainier is an ordinary man with hopes and dreams, a decent man who suffers loss and tragedy, but who refuses to let life beat him down completely. Strikingly, he is a kind man with a conscience. There is also a sense of the pioneering spirit and the proximity and wilderness; a sense of great space. This, I think is what taps into a particularly American sensitivity; you don\u2019t get the same feel on this small island. It is also a novella about masculinity; there are very few female characters. At a surface level it is about building things, making stuff and machines and machinery. For some reason I never really myself got that supposedly masculine feel for building, taking apart or putting back together. I don\u2019t have a shed or \u201cman-cave\u201d; give me a book lined room every time. The wilderness doesn\u2019t appeal (where are the bookshops and libraries?) and machinery is purely functional. I have a car to get from A to B, not for any other reason and being in charge of a roaring great hulk of machinery has never really appealed to my aesthetic sense. That side of the novel doesn\u2019t appeal, but the prose is wonderfully lyrical and the landscape is a character in its own right. There is a good deal of American myth in this; the odd ghost, a feral child, half-dog half wolf pets, frontier tales and Grainier himself almost becomes mythical as a woodsman himself towards his end. I was reminded of Woody Guthrie\u2019s autobiography, \u201cBound for Glory\u201d. I think there is also a longer novel here trying to get out. ...more I like novellas, they feel a lesser undertaking than settling into a novel in its full form. For me it also opens up options I might spurn if I though I'd have to take on three hundred or more pages. I first picked up this thin book at at a local bookstore - I was attracted by a single sentence as I briefly flicked through it. I didn't read the blurb or otherwise pre-acquainting myself with the tale to be told. I later bought the Kindle version. A mystery read, and a satisfying one. A strange an I like novellas, they feel a lesser undertaking than settling into a novel in its full form. For me it also opens up options I might spurn if I though I'd have to take on three hundred or more pages. I first picked up this thin book at at a local bookstore - I was attracted by a single sentence as I briefly flicked through it. I didn't read the blurb or otherwise pre-acquainting myself with the tale to be told. I later bought the Kindle version. A mystery read, and a satisfying one. A strange and unsettling group of anecdotes telling of the life of a lonely man. Well, more a loner than a lonely man. I enjoyed the descriptions of people, places and events - it touched me. I'll seek out more of the writers work. ...more As me and my better half perused the shelves of our local library, we came upon Train Dreams by Denis Johnson.\u00a0 Even though I hadn\u2019t read any of Johnson\u2019s works prior to, I had had the curiosity to check him out via my girlfriends\u2019 mentioning of Jesus\u2019 Son last year.\u00a0 As I flipped to the back page to look at the author\u2019s picture (something I\u2019m strangely accustomed to do), I see a man sitting with his back to the wall; with black-tinted sunglasses looking up to the heavens, sun-drenched, cool and As me and my better half perused the shelves of our local library, we came upon Train Dreams by Denis Johnson.\u00a0 Even though I hadn\u2019t read any of Johnson\u2019s works prior to, I had had the curiosity to check him out via my girlfriends\u2019 mentioning of Jesus\u2019 Son last year.\u00a0 As I flipped to the back page to look at the author\u2019s picture (something I\u2019m strangely accustomed to do), I see a man sitting with his back to the wall; with black-tinted sunglasses looking up to the heavens, sun-drenched, cool and collected like a man with no worries; nothing but time on his side and a small resemblance to the treacherous megalomaniac Jim Jones, but only in profile.\u00a0\u00a0 I read the description of the short novella and was intrigued, my interest piqued not only with book cover, but with the story described within. We brought it home and it sat amongst the rest of our library pile of books that we obtained that weekend day.\u00a0 Other books were chosen first, denying my first exposure to Johnson\u2019s first-rate story-telling.\u00a0 As the rain hits the panels of my hilltop apartment, I finally felt the need to read this short novella of the natural world and of the unpredictable subconscious. Johnson\u2019s story of a simple, solitary man born into mystery living the life of a woodsman who encounters love and family for the first time in his life and then the catastrophe that takes it all away is a good read; not profound, but still with purpose and substance. Robert Grainer is an everyday choke setter along the Spokane International Railroad, mostly working in the panhandle of Idaho.\u00a0 Not knowing who he came from or where he\u2019s going, he meets his eventual wife Gladys and later has a daughter named Kate.\u00a0 They live in a cabin in the middle of the woods and as he goes to work along the railroad, she tends to the home, keeping the child, being the homemaker that he desperately needs.\u00a0 Robert is content with his life, sending money home as he earns it, living off the land as he needs to, without a care in the world, much like my description of the author.\u00a0 As a forest fire engulfs the forest for which he\u2019s made his home with his family and also taken his family without a trace, he has dreams of which are supernatural in nature; somewhat prophetic and magical.\u00a0 As the years go on, Robert rebuilds the ashy soot-laden cabin into what it was and lives a solitary life for the next half century until he perishes himself.\u00a0 As he was brought into the world under mysterious circumstances, he enters that black void under the same; being found several months after his expiration.\u00a0 Robert\u2019s character shows how humans, after a certain amount of time can forget not only our loved ones, but ourselves.\u00a0 Losing who we are, how we are, what we are, in other words, losing ourselves is a horrible thing, some may even say more than death. ...more Early in this novella, but not in his chronological life, Robert Grainier feels obliged to help fellow workers grab a Chinese laborer, working in the Pacific Northwest, and throw him off a span of bridge into a gorge below. They are ultimately unsuccessful, but Death is not denied otherwise in the life of Grainier. In fact, everyone he meets seems to have a sorry end. The story of this man (this Country?) is told in sepia-toned, non-linear vignettes. His Asian adventure (if you want to read somet Early in this novella, but not in his chronological life, Robert Grainier feels obliged to help fellow workers grab a Chinese laborer, working in the Pacific Northwest, and throw him off a span of bridge into a gorge below. They are ultimately unsuccessful, but Death is not denied otherwise in the life of Grainier. In fact, everyone he meets seems to have a sorry end. The story of this man (this Country?) is told in sepia-toned, non-linear vignettes. His Asian adventure (if you want to read something more into this) has left him spiritless. Grainy-er. He is a good man who somehow cannot love again. If you don't want to go down that road, you can simply enjoy the Twain-like stories that our protagonist confronts. (Because Twain merely entertained and never had a larger purpose, right?). So you can hear about the drunk man who gambled his fortune on a brag that he could outrun a horse; or about the man whose dog shot him...in self defense. You never actually get to meet Miss Galveston, the Winner of the Famous Pageant of Pulchritude. Grainier doesn't either. But his misunderstanding of the word torments him something powerful. This was a very enjoyable read. Don't tell those dicks at Amazon. ...more As a small child he arrived on a train and later would not have a clear understanding of where he came from or what his background was. For a time, as an adult he would make a living from trains, clearing the trees so more tracks could be laid, a necessity as more and more people moved West. It is the early twentieth century and great changes are taking place in the United States. Yet for the most part the West was a raw and hard place for a man to make a life and raise a family. Told in a spare As a small child he arrived on a train and later would not have a clear understanding of where he came from or what his background was. For a time, as an adult he would make a living from trains, clearing the trees so more tracks could be laid, a necessity as more and more people moved West. It is the early twentieth century and great changes are taking place in the United States. Yet for the most part the West was a raw and hard place for a man to make a life and raise a family. Told in a spare and stark manner but with some wonderful descriptions, this is the story of Robert Grandier, an ordinary man. A man with not much ambition, willing to settle for just enough to keep himself and his wife and baby daughter fed through the winter. A time when the woodlands were disappearing at a rapid rate and life was in every way, man against nature. I liked his character, and liked this short yet anything but simple story. A time when survival was fought for and was very uncertain. When a man could only depend on himself and where superstitions ran rampant with often tragic results. ...more Joins pantheon of stellar novellas such as \"The Neon Bible\" and \"A Pale View of Hills\". This is better than the drug chronicle and much-imitated \"Jesus's Son\"--without that confusion, the story is more than captivating and, this being Johnson, devastating. American dreams, y'all! It's all the perfect brutal 'lil package. This novella is a work of great magical story telling. A story that will lay for some time in your thoughts, of novella length but holds depth and meaning more than many nine hundred page novels out there now. I can't stress enough on how you must read this. If I ever one day i write a novella I aspire and dream to write with this quality and craftsmanship. The main protagonist is a man of good virtue he is on the straight and narrow, due to many things he has witnessed and taking account of. One This novella is a work of great magical story telling. A story that will lay for some time in your thoughts, of novella length but holds depth and meaning more than many nine hundred page novels out there now. I can't stress enough on how you must read this. If I ever one day i write a novella I aspire and dream to write with this quality and craftsmanship. The main protagonist is a man of good virtue he is on the straight and narrow, due to many things he has witnessed and taking account of. One day in his past he met and learned from a man in the wilderness, he was in distress and pain, a vagrant alcoholic who spilled out his crimes in his last breath in. This rather rude awakening in his young age left a mark and he kept away from intoxicants and lust. He became a hard worker on the railroad of a bygone era. Time passed and he wed a girl of fine character, who he met at a church meeting. They had a child a girl. He regularly went off to work in various towns, on one days return he found a horrible site the woods and town was overcome by fire and his loved ones no where to be found. He looked for them all over town all the places they had visited previously but no sign. This terror of his missing family eventually had an effect on his psyche and he had many sleepless nights due to having very bad nightmares of his wife and child. The years passed by and he tried to pick up his life again working other towns but eventually he finds himself back again home. There has become word of a wolf-girl, a kind of half wolf and human creature in the wilderness. Our main character fears the darkness and crossing paths with this myth. It's only a matter of time in that which he find out if it be folly or fact. This has some really poignant and happy moments. You feel the desperate times and the atmosphere, the fear, the love and the loss. Be prepared to possibly shed a tear in this heart felt work of literal art as the author carries you into the footsteps of one memorable characters life, through his dreams and nightmares. Denis Johnson is a author that I am liking more and more and comes highly recommended by many authors including Joyce Carol Oates and Alan Heathcock who recommended this to me. Actually these three authors Denis Johnson, Joyce Carol Oates and Alan Heathcock carry original potent voices, they write stories that penetrate and touch the heart and remain in your psyche, they may stay in your dreams for an eternity! This novella is a work of magical realism that has a hypnotic potent voice, sprawling and engrossing violence and beauty. Its words will remain for a time like ancient carvings in a tree. I had to read this twice and have highlighted these excerpts below. (There was even more than this!) \"Meanwhile Robert Grainier had passed his thirty fifth birthday. He missed Gladys and Kate, his Li'l Girl and Li'l Li'l Girl, but he'd lived thirty two years a bachelor before finding a wife, and easily slipped back into a steadying loneliness out here among the countless spruce.\" \"But the captain said he feared an influenza epidemic like the one in 1897. He himself had been orphaned then, his entire family of thirteen siblings dead in a single week.\" \"But maybe the incident affected him in a way nobody could have traced\" \"The first kiss plummeted him down a hole and popped him out into a world he thought he could get along in\u2014as if he\u2019d been pulling hard the wrong way and was now turned around headed downstream. They spent the whole afternoon among the daisies kissing. He felt glorious and full of more blood than he was supposed to have in him.\" \"Soon he was passing through a forest of charred, gigantic spears that only a few days past had been evergreens. The world was gray, white, black, and acrid, without a single live animal or plant, no longer burning and yet still full of the warmth and life of the fire.\" \"All his life Robert Grainier would remember vividly the burned valley at sundown, the most dreamlike business he\u2019d ever witnessed waking\u2014the brilliant pastels of the last light overhead, some clouds high and white, catching daylight from beyond the valley, others ribbed and gray and pink, the lowest of them rubbing the peaks of Bussard and Queen mountains; and beneath this wondrous sky the black valley, utterly still, the train moving through it making a great noise but unable to wake this dead world.\" \"The creature needed to be taught its nature, Grainier felt. One evening he got down beside it and howled. The little pup only sat on its rump with an inch of pink tongue jutting stupidly from its closed mouth. \u201cYou\u2019re not growing in the direction of your own nature, which is to howl when the others do,\u201d he told the mongrel. He stood up straight himself and howled long and sorrowfully over the gorge, and over the low quiet river he could hardly see across this close to nightfall \u2026 Nothing from the pup.\" \"But often, thereafter, when Grainier heard the wolves at dusk, he laid his head back and howled for all he was worth, because it did him good. It flushed out something heavy that tended to collect in his heart, and after an evening\u2019s program with his choir of British Columbian wolves he felt warm and buoyant.\" \"The wolves and coyotes howled without letup all night, sounding in the hundreds, more than Grainier had ever heard, and maybe other creatures too, owls, eagles\u2014what, exactly, he couldn\u2019t guess\u2014surely every single animal with a voice along the peaks and ridges looking down on the Moyea River, as if nothing could ease any of God\u2019s beasts. Grainier didn\u2019t dare to sleep, feeling it all to be some sort of vast pronouncement, maybe the alarms of the end of the world.\" \"Dark theater full of disembodied voices discussing plain facts about secret sins he would die, he would be dragged down to Hell and tortured in his parts eternally before the foul and stinking President of all Pulchritude. Naked, he stood swaying in his yard.\" \"The forests that filled his life were so thickly populous and so tall that generally they blocked him from seeing how far away the world was, but right now it seemed clear there were mountains enough for everybody to get his own. The curse had left him, and the contagion of his lust had drifted off and settled into one of those distant valleys.\" ...more If anyone can be accused of writing fiction way too closely tailored to the tastes of prizegivers, it's Philip Roth. And Jonathan Franzen. And John Updike. Okay, a lot of writers. But let's add Denis Johnson to that list, which is a damn shame because it wasn't always this way. Jesus' Son and Angels are both great fucking books, visceral and ghostly at the same time. But then something happened, and I'm not sure what, but Johnson became this sudden chronicle of the American mythology. Okay, fine, If anyone can be accused of writing fiction way too closely tailored to the tastes of prizegivers, it's Philip Roth. And Jonathan Franzen. And John Updike. Okay, a lot of writers. But let's add Denis Johnson to that list, which is a damn shame because it wasn't always this way. Jesus' Son and Angels are both great fucking books, visceral and ghostly at the same time. But then something happened, and I'm not sure what, but Johnson became this sudden chronicle of the American mythology. Okay, fine, doesn't have to be bad - I love me some Cormac McCarthy and Toni Morrison and Housekeeping-era Marilynne Robinson - but did you ever get the feeling that Writing About America was kind of the easy way out? Like, write a book about the Big American Whatever is all you have to do to win prize upon prize upon prize? Especially after Updike's whole Rabbit Armstrong yippie-dippie-dippie-doo became an admittedly pretty but still dull as dishwater target for any acclaim the Institution could throw at it? So this is Johnson's attempt at tapping into American mythology, and it's popular and acclaimed and supposed to be wonderfully ghostly, but I am just not feeling the damn thing. Part of it is the sheer dodginess of romanticizing American frontier life to begin with, especially when you compare the Native Americans as either superstitious savages or magical benign forces with a weirdly vested interest in helping their conquerors. This aspect of Train Dreams SUCKS and really can't be justified by any pretty prose... look, McCarthy's Border Trilogy cuts close to romanticizing the last days of the Old West, but at least Blood Meridian proves he's smart enough to realize that there were, y'know, people there before who were kinda, like, brutally slaughtered and forced off their own land so we could satisfy our imperialist desires. Urgh, not even my only problem with this novella, but it sure is problematic that Johnson keeps portraying the not-Americans as these savage louts. Y'know how Tree of Smoke did the same thing every single 'nam movie does and portrayed the Vietnamese as not much better than violent children? Yeah, kinda like that. But even Tree of Smoke is better than this, and Tree of Smoke was about three, four hundred pages longer than it needed to be. Did it drag n' drag? Of course, but sometimes the endless cloak-and-dagger shenanigans produced interesting results. There are the rare moments when Johnson does tap into these quasi-mythic rhythms, and sometimes they get subverted into a gallows joke, but you want the rest? Well, here's the rest: cardboard Robert Grainier, the kind of character who has a bunch of stuff happen to him but doesn't really seem to react or do much at all about or with it, has cardboard conversations with other people and endures the sort of tragedies that happen to characters in Big Serious Novels. Same problem as Tree of Smoke, really, and I for one miss the days when characters schlepped from Chicago to Phoenix and got mixed up in bank robberies and landed in prisons occupied by people who thought they were Jesus. I 100% disagree with the common claim that people who can't write \"normal\" fiction instead write \"weird\" fiction, since Johnson portrayed his bizarro world roughly 10,000,000 times more interestingly than the mythic or whatever worlds of his more recent stuff. So maybe I should treat Johnson as two different authors and ignore everything he wrote after a certain point? Hard to tell, but this one is a technically decent novel that just doesn't grab me. The prose only occasionally works any emotions up, the characters aren't, and the whole thing smacks as a Gone with the Wind-style lament for colonial days. Blurgh. Time to reread Angels, I suppose. ...more \u201cFrost had built on the dead grass, and it skirled beneath his feet. If not for this sound he\u2019d have thought himself struck deaf, owing to the magnitude of the surrounding silence. All the night\u2019s noises had stopped. The whole valley seemed to reflect his shock. He heard only his footsteps and the wolf-girl\u2019s panting complaint.\u201d \u2015 Denis Johnson, Train Dreams So, I've just read my second great American novella set in Northern Idaho. 'Train Dreams' isn't A River Runs Through It and Other Stories , \u201cFrost had built on the dead grass, and it skirled beneath his feet. If not for this sound he\u2019d have thought himself struck deaf, owing to the magnitude of the surrounding silence. All the night\u2019s noises had stopped. The whole valley seemed to reflect his shock. He heard only his footsteps and the wolf-girl\u2019s panting complaint.\u201d \u2015 Denis Johnson, Train Dreams So, I've just read my second great American novella set in Northern Idaho. 'Train Dreams' isn't A River Runs Through It and Other Stories , but it travels similar territory. Just different actors and a different experience. It reads like the Spring sun has just risen on Cormac McCarthy's prose. If you can describe any novel of less than 120 pages as epic, this novel would belong in that group. The story seems to float like a gossamer-thin cloud across the sky of the late 19th and early 20th century. It captures horizon-to-horizon the struggles and the dreams that disappeared as horses were replaced with cars and planes, and trains traveled back and forth. ...more I could not sync up with this story, expected something much bleaker. There didn't seem to be room for the inclusion of the mysterious secrets of Moya Valley and the main character's bent toward howling with the wolves at night. There was certainly nothing wrong with the writing, the tale simply did not click with me. This short and sweet novella tells the story of one mans life in the Pacific North West; he never gets close enough to see the ocean however. I was waiting for it all to be pulled together in the end and this didn\u2019t quite happen, but I gave it three stars anyway because of the way the narrator told the story. The narrator makes this worth reading because the events are beautifully described in the language of the time. Denis Johnson won an O. Henry prize for this novella of the old American West in 2003. It originally appeared in the Paris Review but is now reissued and bound in hardback with an apt cover art\u2014a painting by Regionalist Thomas Hart Benton called \u201cThe Race.\u201d If you contemplate the painting for a while, you may feel the ghost of the book\u2019s protagonist, Robert Grainier, as he, too, felt the ghosts and spirits of the dead. Robert Grainier is a man without a known beginning\u2014at least, he didn\u2019t know hi Denis Johnson won an O. Henry prize for this novella of the old American West in 2003. It originally appeared in the Paris Review but is now reissued and bound in hardback with an apt cover art\u2014a painting by Regionalist Thomas Hart Benton called \u201cThe Race.\u201d If you contemplate the painting for a while, you may feel the ghost of the book\u2019s protagonist, Robert Grainier, as he, too, felt the ghosts and spirits of the dead. Robert Grainier is a man without a known beginning\u2014at least, he didn\u2019t know his parents, and neither did he know where he was from originally. Some cousin suspected Canada, and said that he spoke only French when he was left off in Fry, Idaho, circa 1893, arriving there on the Great Northern Railroad as a young lad. His aunt and uncle were his parents, and he grew up in the panhandle by the Kootenai River with the loggers, the Indians, the Chinese, and the trains. As the book opens in the summer of 1917, Grainier is helping his railroad crew of the Spokane International Railway (in the Idaho panhandle) hold a struggling Chinese laborer accused of stealing. They meant to throw him from the trestle, sixty feet above the rapids at the gorge, but the man, cursing and speaking in tongues, broke free and went hand-over-hand from beam to beam, until he disappeared. \u201cThe Chinaman, he was sure, had cursed them powerfully\u2026and any bad thing might come of it.\u201d And that was the signal incident that curses, spirits, and demons would inhabit the landscape of Grainier\u2019s dreams. Often, in the background, is heard the melancholic whistle of the trains. Johnson\u2019s story is a portrait of early 20th-century America as witnessed through the itinerant Grainier, a scrupulous, dignified man whose wife and infant daughter were consumed in a fire in their cabin while he was miles away working on the railroad or in the forest as a logger. Grainier\u2019s long life is seen through snapshots juxtaposed in a deliberately disjointed style, submerging our thoughts deep into the great Northwest, as forests are cleared and the trains tracks are laid that connect one land to the next. \u201cHe was standing on a cliff\u2026into a kind of arena enclosing\u2026Spruce Lake\u2026and now he looked down on it hundreds of feet below him, its flat surface as still and black as obsidian, engulfed in the shadow of surrounding cliffs, ringed with a double ring of evergreens and reflected evergreens.\u201d Grainier came back and rebuilt on the burnt lot, the grief of his loss now a thing in his soul, a muted or massive thing, depending on his memories or his dreams. The dead spirit of his daughter appears in abstract or animal form to haunt him, and the wolves enter his soul. \u201c\u2026when Grainier heard the wolves at dusk, he laid his head back and howled for all he was worth\u2026It flushed out something heavy that tended to collect in his heart\u2026\u201d Love, loss, death, and lust are wound into this short but powerful story, a story of a time that is receding from the collective American memories. Denis Johnson\u2019s ode is an evocative and sublime remembrance of things past\u2014of railroads built, of people buried, and of souls lost and wandering. Johnson awakens them, and puts them to rest. My oroginal review posted at MostlyFiction.com Here is the link: http://bookreview.mostlyfiction.com/2... ...more H\u00e1 certos livros que, logo \u00e0 primeira linha, nos aprisionam dentro deles. A\u00ed nos mostram outro mundo, outra \u00e9poca, outra gente, outras vidas t\u00e3o distantes da nossa e, simultaneamente, t\u00e3o perto pelas suas tristezas, pelos seus desejos e, acima de tudo, pelo manter dos sonhos, que alimentam a capacidade de sobreviv\u00eancia do ser humano. No fim, libertam-nos deixando-nos o cora\u00e7\u00e3o em cacos. Roubo, para aqui, a opini\u00e3o do Luis Miguel que, tal como eu, teve a sorte de \"trope\u00e7ar\" em Denis Johnson: https:/ H\u00e1 certos livros que, logo \u00e0 primeira linha, nos aprisionam dentro deles. A\u00ed nos mostram outro mundo, outra \u00e9poca, outra gente, outras vidas t\u00e3o distantes da nossa e, simultaneamente, t\u00e3o perto pelas suas tristezas, pelos seus desejos e, acima de tudo, pelo manter dos sonhos, que alimentam a capacidade de sobreviv\u00eancia do ser humano. No fim, libertam-nos deixando-nos o cora\u00e7\u00e3o em cacos. Roubo, para aqui, a opini\u00e3o do Luis Miguel que, tal como eu, teve a sorte de \"trope\u00e7ar\" em Denis Johnson: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more To start, I must admit that, once again, this is the kind of book I eat up to a certain degree. I don't want to say it's impossible for me to hate a book that takes place out west, the fabled chunk of the United States that I know as home, because I'm sure there are books of the area that I wouldn't like... I just haven't met them yet (thank god). Train Dreams reflects on the life of Robert Grainier, who works on the railroads, forests, and roads of the Moyea Valley, rougly somewhere in the Idaho To start, I must admit that, once again, this is the kind of book I eat up to a certain degree. I don't want to say it's impossible for me to hate a book that takes place out west, the fabled chunk of the United States that I know as home, because I'm sure there are books of the area that I wouldn't like... I just haven't met them yet (thank god). Train Dreams reflects on the life of Robert Grainier, who works on the railroads, forests, and roads of the Moyea Valley, rougly somewhere in the Idaho panhandle, far as I could gather. It loosely follows the timeline of his life, but with significant diversions that make it feel less like a \"proper,\" linear novel, and more like you're sitting down, listening to Grainier mull over his life from a rocking chair in front of a fire while whittling. We learn about Grainier's life, his family's life, but also those of his neighbors, coworkers, friends, and the occasional stranger whose path he crosses. Grainier's prose has an easy-going, delicate sense about it, and is the kind of book where one minute you're reading with rapt attention and then five minutes later you may find yourself daydreaming, triggered by one of Johnson's vibrant visions. Not to get all cliche here, but Train Dreams is the kind of book that will linger much like a dream, with certain scenes wafting in the back of your mind long after you've set it down. Johnson has a dark side, both in the traditionally morbid sense, as well as the darkly comic, but this world isn't without wonder, either, which is one of the things that I found particularly appealing about Train Dreams - the balance of the dark and the light, the starkly real and the mysteriously surreal. Despite being such a short work, seemingly focused around one man, it painted a grander picture, one of the cycles of life and death, in people, animals, nature, and the spiritual or mythical forces that cause these stories to entwine and overlap. A truly lovely read, and though I took my time and lingered through it, it's certainly of the length where you could dedicate yourself to it and make it through in a day... but I'm glad I lingered. ...more I was looking for a little piece of Americana in this novella, and Denis Johnson certainly delivered. It tells the story of Robert Granier, who's an everyday kind of guy, working in logging and bridge building in the early 20th Century. It's a sad story, since Granier lives, for the most part, a lonely (and long) life against the stunning backdrop of the Idaho Panhandle. Granier does experience love, but it's a love that is tragically cut short due to a raging fire that transforms the landscape I was looking for a little piece of Americana in this novella, and Denis Johnson certainly delivered. It tells the story of Robert Granier, who's an everyday kind of guy, working in logging and bridge building in the early 20th Century. It's a sad story, since Granier lives, for the most part, a lonely (and long) life against the stunning backdrop of the Idaho Panhandle. Granier does experience love, but it's a love that is tragically cut short due to a raging fire that transforms the landscape -- and Granier's life. But Granier remains loyal to both this experience, and its setting. The poignancy of this intermingling of love for a dead wife, and the land where he first experiences happiness, is hard to overstate. Johnson also leavens the sentimentality with some macabre humor that Twain, Bierce, or Flannery O'Connor would of applauded. If you like Cormac McCarthy, with his stark and beautiful landscapes, but feel that the Human Factor is missing in that great writer's grim universe, Johnson's your man. His prose often borders on poetry, and his dialogue is as authentic sounding as it gets. My one complaint is the wolf child bit, which seemed unnecessary, and a distraction in what was otherwise a beautiful story that was both personal and National at the same time. ...more Novellas can often be underwhelming, there is so little time to be hooked by the narrative, to fall for the characters. For a good half of this reading I was thinking small, small, small. Tiny splinters aggravating the surface of the imagination. I think Grainer's wolf howling was the fulcrum and suddenly I was right there amid the charred wilderness, four walls and no roof. Later as the years unfold and Grainer's bones fist and knot, none of it feels like dying. Some of what goes on stills read Novellas can often be underwhelming, there is so little time to be hooked by the narrative, to fall for the characters. For a good half of this reading I was thinking small, small, small. Tiny splinters aggravating the surface of the imagination. I think Grainer's wolf howling was the fulcrum and suddenly I was right there amid the charred wilderness, four walls and no roof. Later as the years unfold and Grainer's bones fist and knot, none of it feels like dying. Some of what goes on stills reads small, but the language is sharp, the imagery briefly kaleidoscopic. But if it were not for that awful and beautiful stage roar (what a closer), 'the originating ideal of all such sounds ever made' I would not be thinking BIG right now, and hopefully in the days to come. 3.5 stars but I just know that a re-read will do this service. ...more This is one of those books that make me feel like a Failed Grown-Up, because it's been reviewed as an excellent literary read, and accomplished literary people confirm that it's an excellent literary read, and then I read it and I don't like it. I picked it up because it was one of the stories that the podcast Literary Disco was reviewing; when they turned out to love it, and I disliked it utterly, I began to wonder where I went wrong, or what I was missing (and, later, to wonder if maybe this w This is one of those books that make me feel like a Failed Grown-Up, because it's been reviewed as an excellent literary read, and accomplished literary people confirm that it's an excellent literary read, and then I read it and I don't like it. I picked it up because it was one of the stories that the podcast Literary Disco was reviewing; when they turned out to love it, and I disliked it utterly, I began to wonder where I went wrong, or what I was missing (and, later, to wonder if maybe this wasn't the podcast for me after all). It's a story about a guy who is, primarily, a logger in the American West during the first half of the twentieth century. The book is told in only semi-linear fashion, with a lot of jumping back-and-forth in time -- which made it hard to follow for me, not in terms of action (the action was always clear to me), but in terms of *point*. (More on that in a minute.) The story more or less starts with Robert Grainer (our logger guy) going through an immense personal tragedy ... although, like many Superb Literary Stories, I never felt any sort of connection to his loss. His grief was described sideways: there's admittedly-artistic lines about his experience -- the passage about how he initially dreams of the people he lost, and then the dreams fade away -- but I had no real emotional connection to what had happened to him. The language is so poetic and symbolic and otherworldly that it leaves me, as a reader, viewing a character's emotion through a filter. And I should mention that I often *like* poetic language as description -- much of Laurie Halse Anderson's book \"Wintergirls\" is written in free-verse style, with lots of floating imagery, and I love that. But whereas Anderson's images and poetry serve to heighten the emotion, Johnson's -- for me -- serve to dampen it. I gave the book two stars instead of one because I did enjoy the writing style -- it kept me reading, anyway -- but I kept reading it and reading it and waiting for the story to get to the point, and it never seemed to do so. Even the odd wolf-themed ending sequence seemed for nothing. There's great descriptive passages about the landscape and the changing times and the rough wilderness and wolves ... but since I never connected to Grainer, or his journey (whatever his journey was), it left me cold. Possibly this story might work for you actual Real Grown-Ups out there, but for me, the connection was missing. Sorry, Johnson. ...more A perfect 'Once upon a time' story for adults. An elaborate response would follow someday soon. Everyone should stop whatever they are doing, put down whatever they are reading, right now, and read Train Dreams . Seriously. I mean it. Now. It's a novella, and a short one at that, so it'll only take you an hour or two. So you really should read it now. I see some of you still aren't reading it. You! You there in the back! The one smoking a joint. And the other one with spots. If you don't start reading it now I'll have all of you shot! A friend recommended this to me. A quick read under 200 pages. The first chapter or two I questioned why, but as it progressed I began to understand. It is a telling of the life of one man living in Idaho \u2013 an orphan from Canada or Utah\u2026 who really knows. It is set in the early to mid-parts of the 1900\u2019s. An Americana story. The main character takes us through his life slowly, quite detailed, for such a short Novel, under 200 pages. Grainer\u2019s life is not such a simple one. Starting as a self-des A friend recommended this to me. A quick read under 200 pages. The first chapter or two I questioned why, but as it progressed I began to understand. It is a telling of the life of one man living in Idaho \u2013 an orphan from Canada or Utah\u2026 who really knows. It is set in the early to mid-parts of the 1900\u2019s. An Americana story. The main character takes us through his life slowly, quite detailed, for such a short Novel, under 200 pages. Grainer\u2019s life is not such a simple one. Starting as a self-described slacker he comes upon a hobo and the interaction cures him of his ways. He finds work clearing trees and building bridges for the railroad. \u201cIt was only when you left it alone that a tree might treat you as a friend. After the blade bit in, you had yourself a war.\u201d He finds love, \u201cThe first kiss plummeted him down a hole and popped him out into a world he thought he could get along in\u2014as if he\u2019d been pulling hard the wrong way and was now turned around headed downstream.\u201d He finds grief, \u201cHe saw no sign of their Bible, either. If the Lord had failed to protect even the book of his own Word, this proved to Grainier that here had come a fire stronger than God.\u201d He lives in a time that sees great progress and he struggles with many of the past personal occurrences that haunt him the rest of his days. It is well written, has a tug on you, I could feel his pain and his aging. The story contains great imagery. I would not put this in a class with \u201cA River Runs Through It.\u201d It is, however, on its own merits a very good read and enjoyable. ...more I would say God bless Denis Johnson, but clearly he already has. This is a man with a tricky, multiple, ground-sniffing gift - a gift like a dog exploring a summer field. And yet the stories accumulate. There is no sense that we're ever lost, and I think a lot of this direction (or not direction so much as aggregation, like crystals glomming into a rock garden) has to do with DJ's utter commitment to the crannies of his story. Is this a cliche? Yes, it is, but like many writing cliches it deserv I would say God bless Denis Johnson, but clearly he already has. This is a man with a tricky, multiple, ground-sniffing gift - a gift like a dog exploring a summer field. And yet the stories accumulate. There is no sense that we're ever lost, and I think a lot of this direction (or not direction so much as aggregation, like crystals glomming into a rock garden) has to do with DJ's utter commitment to the crannies of his story. Is this a cliche? Yes, it is, but like many writing cliches it deserves a roll. No particular paragraph of Train Dreams sticks out from the others, and yet when you're done with any one of them, you find yourself going back and reading it over, to re-experience both how much you saw and how much you missed. Some day in the near future, we're going to look back and see DJ as one of the sneaky great American writers: a sort of modern/archaic Stephen Crane whose masterpieces cragged up the board like a shitty Tetris player. But who wants a blank screen? And who cares about stories that fit together perfectly from beginning to end, when you can have lush, unrolling mini-movies that gallop across the backs of your eyelids like a magic lantern, each panel of which deserves could be framed and hung above your bed? ...more Can a man live through most of a century and not really be a part of it? The historical events that mark a century for history are wars, rise and fall of nations, political leaders, inventions, cultural shifts beginning with artists \u2013 they have virtually no impact on Robert Grainie in this novella. He lives an isolated existence that spans two thirds of the 20th century in the woods of the north Idaho Panhandle. His only connection with a larger world are the trains that rumble through the villa Can a man live through most of a century and not really be a part of it? The historical events that mark a century for history are wars, rise and fall of nations, political leaders, inventions, cultural shifts beginning with artists \u2013 they have virtually no impact on Robert Grainie in this novella. He lives an isolated existence that spans two thirds of the 20th century in the woods of the north Idaho Panhandle. His only connection with a larger world are the trains that rumble through the village near his cabin on their way west to Seattle or east to Minneapolis. \u201cThe train, moving through it, making a great noise but unable to wake this dead world,\u201d raises the question of just how \u201cdead\u201d this world is. It\u2019s full of life, but not the conventional kind that attracts public attention . The novella opens on a scene of violence, Robert trying to help a vigilante group throw a Chinese worker off a railway trestle. It was the beginning of the century, one marked by prejudice and violence and almost unconsciously Robert participates in it. Later he comes to regret his actions, thinking that perhaps they placed a curse on him. He\u2019s a decent hard-working honest man who doesn\u2019t drink, fight, fornicate or swear. He almost accidentally meets a woman at church, courts her, and they settle down on his one acre of land. He works in the woods felling trees, a dangerous job, while his wife and daughter are at home. But these two people for whom he lives abruptly perish in a terrible forest fire. At first Robert has fearful dreams of Gladys and Kate, his wife and daughter, He is haunted by a vision of his wife who comes to visit him in spirit form. He has nightmares of his daughter whom he envisions having escaped the fire and turned into a wolf child. She comes to the cabin one night, wounded, and he sets her broken leg, and then she leaps out the window and disappears. And then he dreams of trains, one in particular on which he rides and makes him think of his lost childhood. Robert never remarries and is drawn back to the spot where he had built his cabin. The forest comes back, and gradually Robert recovers from the trauma of this loss and forgets that he is a sad man. He grows old and arthritic, capable of doing only only small jobs around town. He is liked, but when he dies in l968 in his 80\u2019s, he lies dead in his cabin, unnoticed for months, until two hikers find him. The story doesn\u2019t end there, though. In a kind of epilogue, the scene shifts back to l935 when Grainier was in town and was given tickets to a traveling show starring\u201d Theodore the Wonder Horse\u201d. It also included a \u201cwolf boy\u201d who lurches around the stage in such a way that spectators thought perhaps he was meant to be laughed at. But no one laughs when he stands up straight, opens his throat and a sound emerges \u201clike wind coming from all four directions, low and terrifying, rumbling up from the ground and gathered into a roar that coalesced into a voice that penetrated into the very minds of those hearing it. . . . It was the originating ideal of such sounds ever made, of the foghorn and the ship\u2019s horn, the locomotive\u2019s lonely whistle, or opera singing and the music of flutes and the continuous moan music of bagpipes. And suddenly it all went black. And that time was gone forever\u201d [last words of book]. What\u2019s gone forever are forgotten individuals like Robert Grainier who lived ordinary lives of pleasures and losses, like everyone, dreaming of unknowable selves and destinies. They are people who live close to nature, in this story a force of fate, that is always permeating their lives What can only give meaning to their lives are powerful words like Johnson\u2019s that reach and stretch toward the silence that lies beyond words, the silence that bursts into the origins of evocative music \u2013 lonely, moaning, operatic soaring. ...more The life of Robert Grainier, in sum: Grainier himself lived more than eighty years, well into the 1960s. In his time he'd traveled west to within a few dozen miles of the Pacific, though he'd never seen the ocean itself, and as far east as the town of Libby, forty miles inside Montana. He'd had one lover -- his wife, Gladys -- owned one acre of property, two horses, and a wagon. He'd never been drunk. He'd never purchased a firearm or spoken into a telephone. He'd ridden on trains regularly, many The life of Robert Grainier, in sum: Grainier himself lived more than eighty years, well into the 1960s. In his time he'd traveled west to within a few dozen miles of the Pacific, though he'd never seen the ocean itself, and as far east as the town of Libby, forty miles inside Montana. He'd had one lover -- his wife, Gladys -- owned one acre of property, two horses, and a wagon. He'd never been drunk. He'd never purchased a firearm or spoken into a telephone. He'd ridden on trains regularly, many times in automobiles, and once on an aircraft. During the last decade of his life he watched television whenever he was in town. He had no idea who his parents might have been, and he left no heirs behind him. This passage, taken from late in the novel, is as much the summary of a man as of the crevice of history we think of as American modernity. I take it to be a prime example of what reviewers have in mind when likening this novella to a portrait-in-miniature. Maybe. But that has a way of overlooking, or at least not pointing out some of Johnson's more peculiar achievements here. I enjoyed, for example, that this was a story of living alone in the woods that wasn't a story about transcendentalism or self-reliance. I liked that it was a story about the modernization of technology that wasn't about 'the modernization of technology.' I liked that it was a story about ethnicity that wasn't about ethnicity. I liked that it was a story of myth, but not of myth-making. I liked that it was a story rife with symbolism that didn't attempt to finalize or drive home its symbols' rhythmic impressions in any definite way. I liked, in other words, that Train Dreams: A Novella managed to be a portrait in miniature that didn't feel too strong a need to account for the grander sum of all of its parts. It could have been. Given the theme of trains, for example, there's a clear through-line from the moment in Walden, or Life in the Woods when Thoreau stops and hears, maybe for the the first time, an oncoming locomotive running through the woods some distance away; through to Marilynne Robinson's Housekeeping , in which the story of male transcendentalism is derailed, both as a literal technology and as a narrative about the individual male; through to a novel like Train Dreams. But I liked that this was avoided. The literary history, though appreciable, isn't always necessary, and would've been a little too much here. It might've won Johnson a Pulitzer prize, but it wouldn't have done Robert Grainier any favors. This is a beautiful, imperfect work. As much as it's \"about\" America in the early 20th-century, and the above quote is a sure testament to that, I found it most of all to be about a single man and the social, narrative, and thematic languages that could be used to define him. This is a quality that I sense some of Johnson's other works to share, and I admire him for it. ...more<---C>Denis Johnson</---C>", "Title": "Train Dreams"},
