{"Comments": "It only gets a four because I'm not sure where I stand with this whole love triangle. I'm a hardcore Morelli/Steph fan (who can appreciate Ranger but doesn't want Ranger with Steph for many reasons) and am getting a little tired of the walking out on Morelli because they disagree. I'd love to see Morelli finally get tired of the whole thing and date someone else, forcing Steph to realize what the hell she wants. In terms of this particular book, I was getting a little frustrated with Steph's beha It only gets a four because I'm not sure where I stand with this whole love triangle. I'm a hardcore Morelli/Steph fan (who can appreciate Ranger but doesn't want Ranger with Steph for many reasons) and am getting a little tired of the walking out on Morelli because they disagree. I'd love to see Morelli finally get tired of the whole thing and date someone else, forcing Steph to realize what the hell she wants. In terms of this particular book, I was getting a little frustrated with Steph's behavior with Ranger regardless of how sexy it may have been. The soap? Buy a bottle yourself and go over to Joe's. I was having the same guilt attack she was having when she thought about Joe. Pick a side already Steph! The drama is carrying on for too long. The story itself was hysterical and any book that has Sally Sweet in it is going to be good. The ending had me giggling and it was all well-justified and crazy in that well-known Plum style. ...more This one is worth reading for the batcave alone.<---F> Seriously</---F>. Stephanie breaks into Rangers apartment and hides out there to keep safe from the gang that has targeted her. It breaks down the mystery of Ranger in a lot of ways - and yet not. He becomes less phantom and more Man in this book - which is welcome. I think his becoming more real makes his a bigger threat to Morelli and Stephanie's relationship. \"I don't get it,\" Morelli said. \"Other women are happy to stay home. My sister stays home. My brothers' wives stay home. My mother stays home. My grandmother stays home.\" \"Your grandmother is insane.\" \"You're right. My grandmother doesn't count.\" First of all, Morelli sounds like Stephanie's mother right now. Secondly, he's kind of right. Stephanie has a gang after her and they have a hired hitman coming in to kill her. It does seem like a good time to maybe stay safe, catch up on some reading or \"I don't get it,\" Morelli said. \"Other women are happy to stay home. My sister stays home. My brothers' wives stay home. My mother stays home. My grandmother stays home.\" \"Your grandmother is insane.\" \"You're right. My grandmother doesn't count.\" First of all, Morelli sounds like Stephanie's mother right now. Secondly, he's kind of right. Stephanie has a gang after her and they have a hired hitman coming in to kill her. It does seem like a good time to maybe stay safe, catch up on some reading or something. But, Stephanie is not the brightest bulb in the pack. She's determined to put herself in danger by strutting around town like one of those moving targets at the shooting range. Stephanie isn't smart enough to be one of the ducks. She's that tin can at the bottom. So, when the gang members graffiti Morelli's house and her car, showing that they know exactly where she is, she freaks out and moves out of his house. She uses an argument they have about her staying safe as an excuse,<---M> but really</---M>, I can't believe Morelli still puts up with her constant break-ups. The good news is, Stephanie ends up hiding out at the Bat Cave (Ranger's place). We finally get to see more of the elusive Ranger. And, the more I learn about him, the more I like him. This is true. We have never seen Ranger and Batman in the same room. Suspicious! The bad news is, Stephanie is really jerking these guys around. She lives with Morelli, but kisses Ranger anytime she wants? You know what I would think about my hubs kissing another woman? I think he wouldn't survive what I think. Before he kisses her, he would need to get his affairs in order. Arrange his own funeral and such. That would work... Here's what I would like to see happen: Morelli meets another woman and marries her. Stephanie finds out that Ranger is actually married to a beautiful supermodel. Stephanie realizes that her hamster, Rex, cannot possibly be a real hamster because he's lived longer than a couple of hamster lives put together. She kisses Rex and he turns out to be a cursed fae that was trapped in the hamster body. He takes her back to his kingdom and keeps her in a glass aquarium, throwing her pieces of pizza crust and cereal each day. (Seems only fair.) Okay, maybe that's a bit unrealistic. Ranger should be married to an international spy or maybe Catwoman. Better? ...more Warning! Warning! You should not operate a treadmill while reading <---A>Janet Evanovich</---A>\u2019s Stephanie Plum books. Why, do you ask? Because hysterical laughter can and more than likely will trip you. Thank goodness for that little string that turns off the treadmill. WHAM! Trip, slip, hit, roll! Reading this book was refreshing. I\u2019ve been reading so much blood gore and paranormal romance, that my mind was in desperate need for funny. This book centered around Stephanie Plum (duh, right?) and her knack fo Warning! Warning! You should not operate a treadmill while reading Janet Evanovich\u2019s Stephanie Plum books. Why, do you ask? Because hysterical laughter can and more than likely will trip you. Thank goodness for that little string that turns off the treadmill. WHAM! Trip, slip, hit, roll! Reading this book was refreshing. I\u2019ve been reading so much blood gore and paranormal romance, that my mind was in desperate need for funny. This book centered around Stephanie Plum (duh, right?) and her knack for stumbling into dangerous situations. Felons to apprehend. Humping dogs to evade (scene to be posted individually as it deserves nothing less!). And two extremely sexy men to fantasize over. Hiding from gang members and some psycho badass, Stephanie finds herself living with Ranger, only he doesn\u2019t know it yet. Sexual tension much? Stephanie is a hilariously gorgeous woman with a sidekick that rocks. Two women fighting crime and eating donuts. What better way to live? Luck is the only thing that saves her ass. Lula, Stephanie\u2019s sidekick is awesome. She is the most hilarious character ever invented. Be still my beating heart. Actually, Lula still looked like a hooker. Lula\u2019s a full-bodied black woman who favors animal print spandex enhanced with sequins. I figured Lula didn\u2019t want to hear my fashion opinion, so I didn\u2019t say anything. I just raised an eyebrow. Morelli, the sexy cop, and Stephanie\u2019s on again off again main squeeze, just can\u2019t get his head out of his ass. Trying to convince Stephanie that she needs to be a stay at home housewife \u2026 just isn\u2019t good for his health. Morelli\u2019s a very sexy, very handsome Trenton cop. Morelli and I have a long history and possibility a long future. Mostly we take it day by day, neither of us feeling the need for documented commitment right now. Vinnie doesn\u2019t show up too much in this book. Nonetheless, the fact that he once loved a duck is enough to bless this post\u2019s presence. Vinnie is my cousin on my father\u2019s side of the family and sole owner of Vincent Plum Bail Bonds. He\u2019s an oily little guy with slicked-back black hair, pointy-toed shoes, and a bunch of gold chains hanging around his scrawny tanning salon-tanned neck. It\u2019s rumored that he once had a romantic relationship with a duck. Ranger, latino and deadly. It just doesn\u2019t get much better than Ranger. Read him. Love him. Lust him. That\u2019s the only way it works. He just flat-out does it for me. Ranger rarely showed emotion. He was more a man of action\u2026 throwing people against walls and out windows, never breaking a sweat, his face perfectly composed. Now you\u2019ve made me mad, he\u2019d calmly say. And then bodies would fly through the air. I recommend this book to all mature adults and above. Super mild sexual content with some interesting scenes filled with violence. Triple thumbs up .. Silly, but I just can\u2019t help myself! Line of the book: If you buy chocolate with loose change the calories don\u2019t count. ~Happy reading! ...more I've enjoyed all 10 books of this series. I MIGHT do 11... but that would be it for me. First book started in mid-90's and I think this one is still in the 90's even though cell phones, GPS, and airport security sound more like the current century. Also, her hamster is still alive and started at 3 y.o. -I know! Stupid details!!! But they bother me! The biggest reason I'm done is because I don't feel that the main character, Stephanie, is growing at all. The characters & story line are static I've enjoyed all 10 books of this series. I MIGHT do 11... but that would be it for me. First book started in mid-90's and I think this one is still in the 90's even though cell phones, GPS, and airport security sound more like the current century. Also, her hamster is still alive and started at 3 y.o. -I know! Stupid details!!! But they bother me! The biggest reason I'm done is because I don't feel that the main character, Stephanie, is growing at all. The characters & story line are static: she's the same, situations the same, her awful diet is the same, love triangle is tired.... Plus she's already in her 30's, so it just feels like 10 books in- she should have matured some! But it doesn't feel like she's grown at all, not even a tiny bit. It was fun while it lasted. I don't think I'd enjoy reading 8 more books- which are left in the series- w/out some major change up. Another reviewer mentioned that this series is starting to feel like a sitcom that's jumped the shark. I agree. This would be a fun sitcom to watch. I imagine James Franco as Morelli... maybe. I think he could pull it off. Can't imagine someone for Ranger or Stephanie yet though. OK- broke down and did end up reading #11! It was good, but the same :) And now there's a movie out for 'One for the Money!' Katherine Heigl looks good for the part in the previews... but Morelli... hmmm.... doesn't seem sexy enough just based on looks! But maybe they'll have great chemistry. Should be interesting. Oh- and I didn't imagine Debbie Reynolds for Grandma Mazur at all either!!! ...more This was...fine? But also super annoying. A big part of what I don't like about this series is the fact that Steph STILL can't make up her damned mind between Morelli and Ranger. This book essentially brings that to a head for the first time. I mean, sure, she ends up stuck in the house and bored out of her brain because a psychopath wants to kill her. But DUDE. WHAT THE FUCK MORE DO YOU EXPECT MORELLI TO DO? THIS IS NOT A REASON TO BREAK UP WITH HIM AND MOVE INTO RANGER'S APARTMENT. I just...AA This was...fine? But also super annoying. A big part of what I don't like about this series is the fact that Steph STILL can't make up her damned mind between Morelli and Ranger. This book essentially brings that to a head for the first time. I mean, sure, she ends up stuck in the house and bored out of her brain because a psychopath wants to kill her. But DUDE. WHAT THE FUCK MORE DO YOU EXPECT MORELLI TO DO? THIS IS NOT A REASON TO BREAK UP WITH HIM AND MOVE INTO RANGER'S APARTMENT. I just...AAAAAAAAAAAAARGH. In short, Steph's logic is not like our earth logic. If any sane person had a psychopath wanting to kill them, they'd be all \"Yeah, I'm totally going to stay in the house forever and ever, thank you very much\" and not be all \"Ugh, this is the worst I need to go to the mall now\". I mean, really? THE MALL?? You're willing to risk death for the sake of new shoes?! Essentially, all this had going for it was a) Bob the dog, and b) the return of Sally Sweet. ...more I love Stephanie Plum and I love Janet Evanovich's writing, but after reading nine and ten after each other, I got a bit annoyed. Now, I'm not a big fan of love triangles usually, because if you root for the wrong guy, you end up depressed. Just give us one love interest, and let us root for him all the time! And while I usually love the Steph/Morelli/Ranger dynamic, I kept getting annoyed at Stephanie during <+++>Ten Big Ones</+++>. Let's be honest, Ranger is never going to win the love triangle, and it a I love Stephanie Plum and I love Janet Evanovich's writing, but after reading nine and ten after each other, I got a bit annoyed. Now, I'm not a big fan of love triangles usually, because if you root for the wrong guy, you end up depressed. Just give us one love interest, and let us root for him all the time! And while I usually love the Steph/Morelli/Ranger dynamic, I kept getting annoyed at Stephanie during <+++>Ten Big Ones</+++>. Let's be honest, Ranger is never going to win the love triangle, and it annoys me that Stephanie leads him on. She goes to his Batcave (which was AWESOME) and she lets him kiss her, all while she's supposed to be with Morelli and that's not fair to ANYONE and it drives me insane. JUST PICK MORELLI AND GET OVER RANGER. I'm also surprised that after 10 books, Stephanie does not know better when it comes to people trying to kill her. Just stay in the house, girl. Or you'll likely die or be kidnapped or blow up a car. It surprises me that she's not a better bounty hunter, because even after so long, you would still be a LITTLE better. It would be nice if Steph could get herself out of a pickle once in a while, without a man. Apart from all of that, the story IS a good one. Stephanie's offended a gang, as only Stephanie can do, and she has to keep herself alive, which is easier said than done for Stephanie Plum. It was another fun read, I love seeing Lula and Grandma Mazur going on ride-alongs, it's as funny as ever, I just want more for Steph in the love department. I know it's hard for her to commit, but seeing her play both Ranger and Morelli makes me sad. She deserves to not have either of them, because it might teach her a lesson. ...more You'd think after 9 other books in this series, the charades would get old. If anything they are getting funnier. If you drive a clunker, just let Stephanie borrow it and I promise your insurance company will be sending you a check soon. If half of the things that happen to Stephanie would occur to another character in another book, it would get an eye roll from every reader. When they happen to Stephanie there is no doubt of its plausibility. It's also another great web that Evanovich has tangl You'd think after 9 other books in this series, the charades would get old. If anything they are getting funnier. If you drive a clunker, just let Stephanie borrow it and I promise your insurance company will be sending you a check soon. If half of the things that happen to Stephanie would occur to another character in another book, it would get an eye roll from every reader. When they happen to Stephanie there is no doubt of its plausibility. It's also another great web that Evanovich has tangled the \"Love Trio\" in. This is another great book in the series. If anyone is not reading these, you need to seriously start. Maybe set aside the peculiars and dystopians for a bit and start to chuckle. ...more I know people love these books, but I just don't get it apparently. I keep listening to these because I got them all from the library and it's the only thing I have while I'm cleaning and working on Christmas presents, but I have to say that with every book, I get more annoyed with Stephanie Plum. In any other book people would consider her TSTL. Someone is trying to kill her, someone who has already killed 3 people including a police officer, so she takes a stun gun to her body guard because she I know people love these books, but I just don't get it apparently. I keep listening to these because I got them all from the library and it's the only thing I have while I'm cleaning and working on Christmas presents, but I have to say that with every book, I get more annoyed with Stephanie Plum. In any other book people would consider her TSTL. Someone is trying to kill her, someone who has already killed 3 people including a police officer, so she takes a stun gun to her body guard because she's bored and wants to go to the mall? Really? There is a gang who is unhappy with her because she can identify one of their members as someone involved in an armed robbery, so she drives into gang territory to see if she can spot him? See what I mean? And the way she acts about Ranger... what is she a 14 year old girl? I don't deny he sounds hot. And if she wants to have a hot, sweaty time with him, go for it. But he's just a guy. And if you want him, you should really egt rid of your boyfriend. I mean the fact is that while the one time in series that her and Ranger actually had sex, she was broken up with Joe, fine. Of course if Joe had had sex with someone else, she'd pitch a fit and end it for good, but the fact is even when she's dating Joe, she's kissing Ranger. Kissing and lusting and flirting and being in general kind of skanky and totally hypocritical. Make a choice already. I would really love if Joe left her once and for all. He's said a thousands times she's not worth the headache and I think he's right. My personal opinions of the characters aside, the stories all fit into a formula that is becoming a little repetitive. Although I have to say, I love Sally Sweet. So that was a bonus for this book. I'm continuing this series, but I don't have high hopes. ...more For those that haven't gotten my 50 positive reviews for these books at the same time: Laugh out loud funny, a real treat. LOVE these books... Got into them last year as I was moving into my house. Between painting EVERY wall in the place and staying up late reading these books, I was sore all over and tired, but I had a great time doing it. This book finds Stephanie losing yet another car to a fire bombing incident... She is then the target for a local gang and must find a place to hide until sh For those that haven't gotten my 50 positive reviews for these books at the same time: Laugh out loud funny, a real treat. LOVE these books... Got into them last year as I was moving into my house. Between painting EVERY wall in the place and staying up late reading these books, I was sore all over and tired, but I had a great time doing it. This book finds Stephanie losing yet another car to a fire bombing incident... She is then the target for a local gang and must find a place to hide until she sorts it all out... what better place to do that then teh \"Bat Cave\" AKA - Ranger's apartment. Stephanie tracks it down and breaks in while Ranger is out of town and we get to hang out in his space while he is away... the scene where he comes back though - woo! Did I mention, Lulu and Stephanie think it would be a good idea to capture a guy, hold him prisoner, and torture him for information... lol, you can just guess how many ways that can go wrong... Random lines: \"I was doing so many eye rolls these days I was getting head pains.\" \"I didn't want to die. I had more donuts to eat.\" ...more This is the tenth installment (obviously) of Stephanie Plum's misadventures. In this one, she tangles with some dangerous street gangs and her life is in serious danger. Although, I like this series, I'm becoming increasingly irritated with Stephanie. Well first I will have to say I'm on Team Morelli and I want her to grow up and stop acting like a child. Joe wants her to settle down with him and for her to get a less dangerous job--or none at all. He threw out the suggestion of 'housewife' to h This is the tenth installment (obviously) of Stephanie Plum's misadventures. In this one, she tangles with some dangerous street gangs and her life is in serious danger. Although, I like this series, I'm becoming increasingly irritated with Stephanie. Well first I will have to say I'm on Team Morelli and I want her to grow up and stop acting like a child. Joe wants her to settle down with him and for her to get a less dangerous job--or none at all. He threw out the suggestion of 'housewife' to her. I think they could compromise, but both are too stubborn in their ways. Then there is Ranger. I like Ranger a lot, and I agree he is way sexy. I just don't want him with Stephanie. What is she doing saying she's pretty sure she loves Joe, yet she kisses Ranger every other week? The main story lines are usually wrapped up pretty quickly in the Plus series. However, with this one, I think how she is saved at the end is a bit of a stretch, even for Plum. ...more I liked this one too. Not as much laughing, but more suspense. I was glad for a reappearance of Sally. I liked the characters and some of the FTAs. The ending was great, perfect and a complete surprise. Whooo hooo! The Bat Cave! I liked the hideout and it's feelings. Poor Hal. :) Ranger is looking better and better. Joe is looking worse and worse. I hope Steph gets it figured out. Enjoy! It's the new year, so I figured it's time for a challenge. Why not a marathon? New year, time to get healthy, but much like Stephanie Plum, my running skills need some work. Much like Stephanie, I'd probably get side-stitches a quarter mile in. And that's being generous. So I figured I'd take on a different sort of marathon: a Stephanie Plum marathon, and I'll read them all back to back. This easily solved two of my resolutions -- a marathon, and finally finishing series that I've started. I kno It's the new year, so I figured it's time for a challenge. Why not a marathon? New year, time to get healthy, but much like Stephanie Plum, my running skills need some work. Much like Stephanie, I'd probably get side-stitches a quarter mile in. And that's being generous. So I figured I'd take on a different sort of marathon: a Stephanie Plum marathon, and I'll read them all back to back. This easily solved two of my resolutions -- a marathon, and finally finishing series that I've started. I know, I know. I've taken some liberties with marathon in this regard, but I have to stick with what I'm good at. And running ain't it. Every time I start a Stephanie Plum novel, I know I'm guaranteed a laugh, and this one was no exception. From the eccentric and colorful cast to Stephanie's endless apprehension bungles, it seems like I'm laughing out loud on every other page. Evanovich's novels are like brain candy and essentially, that's what keeps me running back for more. I adore all of the characters and what I love is that once a character is introduced, while they may disappear for several books, inevitably they return. In this case, one of my favorites has finally resurfaced. Sally Sweet is back in all of his fudgin' glory, rhinestone dangly earrings and all. In this installment, Stephanie is working one of the most serious cases to date. While previous FTA's have always been varied -- from the mild offender to the murderers and rapists, none have been as formidable as what she's facing now. Trenton and the 'Burg have recently become a hotspot for gang activity and Steph is thrown right in the thick of it when she inadvertently steps into gang territory trying to make an apprehension. As if that weren't bad enough, the gang has placed her on a hit list and everywhere she goes puts someone she loves in danger. What's a girl to do? Business as usual, that's the Plum way. The only thing complicated about Plum novels, and even that's stretching it, is Stephanie's love life. I'm indifferent when it comes to love triangles, I neither like not loathe them. They're just kind of there. The exception to this rule is the relationship between Stephanie, Ranger, and Morelli. I flipping love this triangle and seriously hope she never decides on one. Each man has their good qualities, each man is a good match for Stephanie and while I do favor one over the other, I certainly don't want one to \"win\". That would most definitely take some of the fun out of these novels, and Stephanie \"settling down\" doesn't really sound all that appealing. Bottom line -- Evanovich has a formula to her novels: Stephanie is bound to bungle much of her job, she's bound to be reckless, she's bound to make stupid decisions. That's just who she is. And while many of the same elements are found in each and every book, Evanovich manages to infuse each new story with more humor, more oddball characters, and never once does her series feel formulaic, despite having a formula. Some characters experience growth, such as the case with Lula, but most of them stay the same. Just like Stephanie depends on the 'Burg and the Buick to never fail her, I depend on Evanovich to never fail me in laughs, quirky characters, and fast-paced and goofy mysteries. ...more This had to be my favorite one so far. I've been told by quite a few people they do not like this series and do not understand why I read it. Well, let me tell ya this series makes me actually laugh out loud. They are a joy to read, because of the stupid luck Stephanie has. The trouble, her band of back up, and the triangle between Ranger, Steph, and Joe. I mean really in her position I would probably do the same things. Stephanie manages to get herself in deep this time with the gangs of Trento This had to be my favorite one so far. I've been told by quite a few people they do not like this series and do not understand why I read it. Well, let me tell ya this series makes me actually laugh out loud. They are a joy to read, because of the stupid luck Stephanie has. The trouble, her band of back up, and the triangle between Ranger, Steph, and Joe. I mean really in her position I would probably do the same things. Stephanie manages to get herself in deep this time with the gangs of Trenton. Her sister is getting married, Sally Sweet makes a return appearance (which excites me because I really like his character), Steph yet again loses another car and Ranger comes to the rescue. This time I was surprised she manages to lose and have all three cars destroyed or in need of repair, but manages to keep all three of Ranger's vehicles clean. Ten big ones, Stephanie, Lula, and Connie band together to get answers from a gang member they bonded out of jail. To the Nines I really enjoyed the three working together in Vegas, but in Ten big ones it was hilarious their inability to interrogate the gang member. The love triangle going on between Ranger, Stephanie, and Joe sometimes bugs me a little bit, because Joe wants her to quit her job and do as he says. However we all know that if she did that would Joe really be happy? Less stressed yes, but why else has Stephanie always kept his attention. If she changed and got out of Bounty Hunting and stayed out of trouble. It really wouldn't be Stephanie anymore. She decides to hide in Rangers apartment. I thought we were getting closer to the BatCave. Sadly we haven't yet, but I feel Stephanie will finally find it at some point. Ranger doesn't want Stephanie hurt either but he approaches it in a different way. He knows she will go against any demand that is made of her she doesn't like so he is smart enough to send someone to protect her if he can't. This is what Joe needs to learn. Yes he's Italian and a cop, but still. He's known Stephanie for how long???? Just ask her instead of demanding. She usually knows the danger she's in and is admitting it until Joe makes a demand that sends her usually into more trouble. I cannot wait to pick up the next book and read the next adventure. ...more Okay, here's the deal. There were some scenes here that just had me dying. I was in Kohl's with my kids while they were trying on clothes when I read the dog scene and I was laughing so loudly they actually came out to see what was going on. I made them read the scene so they knew it couldn't be helped. what i did not like. Again, with the skirting around the cheating. I'm really not a fan. I'm losing respect for Stephanie in this sense. I like Joe, I like that Joe is actually way more mature than Okay, here's the deal. There were some scenes here that just had me dying. I was in Kohl's with my kids while they were trying on clothes when I read the dog scene and I was laughing so loudly they actually came out to see what was going on. I made them read the scene so they knew it couldn't be helped. what i did not like. Again, with the skirting around the cheating. I'm really not a fan. I'm losing respect for Stephanie in this sense. I like Joe, I like that Joe is actually way more mature than her. I hate that she KNOWS she's doing it. I hate that she's using the excuse that she just can't stop herself from being irrational, etc. I don't like that not only does she continue to put herself in dangerous situations but she does it with other people. This book was very serious in threat and yet she's still driving around with grandma mauzer, lula, going places and not listening to Joe when really? what did he ask? For her to be responsible and to lay low? Nope... she just can't do it out of sheer stubbornness. This is the first book where I really didn't like Stephanie very much. And that kind of bugs me. I hope it's not a habit and it was a fluke with this book. Lastly, this is going to sound kind of stupid but I'm really getting a bit sick of the fade to black. This book has never really been a porn fest but at least the sex scenes were discussed and now it's all fade to black. This is an adult book, not Twilight. I'd love to see some more detailed loved scene's besides Joe saying You wanna? And her saying okay and then waking up. I'm not looking for detail but the way it's being written is trivializing their emotional relationship and it's a bit bothersome. ...more Ok, I am a big fan of this series. If you want a good beach read that doesn't require much brain use and will make you laugh, this is the perfect series for that. Yet, sadly, this one was really lacking in the laughs department. There were a few chuckles and some smiles here and there but this one just felt really tired and dated. Plus, it feels like Stephanie is stuck in the exact same place she was at the beginning of the series. There has been zero growth or change in her life and that makes Ok, I am a big fan of this series. If you want a good beach read that doesn't require much brain use and will make you laugh, this is the perfect series for that. Yet, sadly, this one was really lacking in the laughs department. There were a few chuckles and some smiles here and there but this one just felt really tired and dated. Plus, it feels like Stephanie is stuck in the exact same place she was at the beginning of the series. There has been zero growth or change in her life and that makes her a very static and flat character. I actually found myself enjoying Lula more in this one. Grandma Mazur added some laughs but mostly this was a humorless affair. Also, the ending felt completely contrived and slightly ridiculous even by this series' standards. I am starting to wonder if perhaps I need to stop reading these books altogether. They are very repetitive and just more and more ridiculous. The characters and the humor are what really sell this series, though, but the characters are starting to annoy me and the humor is just getting tired. This one was a huge disappointment in a series that I used to look forward to reading. I am seriously debating if I should continue with the next one or quit now. ...more Stephanie Plum is wanted by a gang in \u201cBig Ten Ones.\u201d When Stephanie and Lula witness a robbery, Stephanie gets a good look at the suspect. He\u2019s a \u201cSlayer,\u201d a gang member from the wrong side of town. When she goes into Slayerland looking for him, she causes more trouble for herself. The gang imports a hit man named \u201cJunkman\u201d to go after her. Stephanie doesn\u2019t feel safe \u2013 even at Morelli\u2019s. With Ranger out of town, she hides out in his apartment, but it\u2019s only a matter of time before the gang cat Stephanie Plum is wanted by a gang in \u201cBig Ten Ones.\u201d When Stephanie and Lula witness a robbery, Stephanie gets a good look at the suspect. He\u2019s a \u201cSlayer,\u201d a gang member from the wrong side of town. When she goes into Slayerland looking for him, she causes more trouble for herself. The gang imports a hit man named \u201cJunkman\u201d to go after her. Stephanie doesn\u2019t feel safe \u2013 even at Morelli\u2019s. With Ranger out of town, she hides out in his apartment, but it\u2019s only a matter of time before the gang catches up to her \u2013 at her sister\u2019s wedding shower. Can Stephanie outwit the Slayers with Ranger and Morelli\u2019s help? Evanovich\u2019s writing is crisp and witty. She finds a good balance between the adventure of Stephanie\u2019s run-ins with the Slayer gang and her family life as Valerie, her sister, plans to get married. The supporting cast is as strong as ever. Lula tags along with Stephanie and Sally Sweet is back driving a school bus. There were several occasions that made me laugh and bite my nails. \u201cBig Ten Ones\u201d is a cozy mystery infused with a little bit of everything \u2013 humor, suspense, family, friends and anxiety. There are several unexpected turns and the ending is heart pounding. This story is a great installment in the Stephanie Plum series and I highly recommend it. ...more Ten Big Ones is your average Stephanie Plum novel. The one thing that pushed the book past mediocrity was the ending. I loved the ending. It was one of those never saw it coming, awesome surprises. Probably the best ending of the first ten books. Stephanie leaves Morelli (yet again). This time she's claiming it's for his safety. In fact, Stephanie seems to be trying to keep herself out of danger this time around. She's not as bumbling as usual and it's about time. She's still not great at her job Ten Big Ones is your average Stephanie Plum novel. The one thing that pushed the book past mediocrity was the ending. I loved the ending. It was one of those never saw it coming, awesome surprises. Probably the best ending of the first ten books. Stephanie leaves Morelli (yet again). This time she's claiming it's for his safety. In fact, Stephanie seems to be trying to keep herself out of danger this time around. She's not as bumbling as usual and it's about time. She's still not great at her job, but at least she seems slightly less likely to be killed. Lots of Ranger, though only a little Ranger action - in both senses of the word. Ranger actually starts to seem like a real live person in Ten Big Ones, rather than super hot, action-figure Ranger. He's even funny on occasion. A great balance between Stephanie's home and work life as usual. Valerie's planning her wedding with Sally Sweet as her wedding planner. And he's good at it. Lula and Connie help Stephanie in a hysterical \"torture\" scene that'll leave you thinking less of all of them. All in all, an interesting addition to the series that leaves me wondering if Stephanie's days as a bounty hunter are numbered. ...more Just listened to this as an audio book that I got from a BookCrossing CD Book Box. I'm a relative latecomer to actually reading the Plum books. I read the first one years ago, but I think Grandma Mazur struck a little too close to home, where we had our own brand of eccentric old lady living with us. I managed to release almost all the numbers, but didn't read any of them. Then Bumma, our own dear live-in grandma (who was more likely to tote a book than a gun, but still could confabulate even the Just listened to this as an audio book that I got from a BookCrossing CD Book Box. I'm a relative latecomer to actually reading the Plum books. I read the first one years ago, but I think Grandma Mazur struck a little too close to home, where we had our own brand of eccentric old lady living with us. I managed to release almost all the numbers, but didn't read any of them. Then Bumma, our own dear live-in grandma (who was more likely to tote a book than a gun, but still could confabulate even the strongest of minds) got breast cancer and I could only read light stuff. I began listening to some of the later Plum books (higher numbers) on audio, and found them a good diversion. I'd rather save my actual reading time for a somewhat deeper book, but listening to these while driving is fine. This was a fine driving book, and filled in some gaps in the story for me. And I know who I'd choose between Ranger and Joe, but I'm not telling. I'm just waiting for Stephanie's dessert fetish to catch up to her hips. ...more Stephanie Plum, a Trenton, N.J., bounty hunter, accompanied by her trigger-happy friend Lula, an errant file clerk, is after a quirky collection of bail-jumpers\u2014a man who killed a neighbor's rosebushes relieving himself on them, a drag queen musician/school bus driver accused of assault, and a woman who claims she robbed a Frito-Lay truck because she hated her low-carb diet\u2014when she witnesses a convenience store robbery. Unfortunately, Anton Ward, the holdup man, learns that Stephanie can identi Stephanie Plum, a Trenton, N.J., bounty hunter, accompanied by her trigger-happy friend Lula, an errant file clerk, is after a quirky collection of bail-jumpers\u2014a man who killed a neighbor's rosebushes relieving himself on them, a drag queen musician/school bus driver accused of assault, and a woman who claims she robbed a Frito-Lay truck because she hated her low-carb diet\u2014when she witnesses a convenience store robbery. Unfortunately, Anton Ward, the holdup man, learns that Stephanie can identify him and puts out a contract on her. After she tells her colleague Ranger her predicament, he offers her sanctuary. As usual, she's torn between sexy Ranger and her longtime lover, cop <---C>Joe Morelli</---C>, with whom she's living. The rollicking plot, replete with car chases, family squabbles, massive doughnut consumption and a frantic, wacky finale. Includes Grandma Mazur, anxious to accompany Stephanie on her job; self-absorbed sister Valerie and her hapless fianc\u00e9 Albert Kloughn (pronounced Clown); Sally Sweet, the transvestite who shows a talent for wedding planning\u2014are a treat. ...more I was a little disappointed by this book. I've loved all the others up to this one and will continue on with the series but this one seemed tedious. There was enough humor and unusual antics that we all love about Stephanie. But the love triangle thing is getting old. Stephanie is in her 30's, it's about time she stop acting like a lust- struck teenager every time she sees or thinks about Ranger. Ranger's cool, but he's obviously not long term commitment material. Its about time she admits that I was a little disappointed by this book. I've loved all the others up to this one and will continue on with the series but this one seemed tedious. There was enough humor and unusual antics that we all love about Stephanie. But the love triangle thing is getting old. Stephanie is in her 30's, it's about time she stop acting like a lust- struck teenager every time she sees or thinks about Ranger. Ranger's cool, but he's obviously not long term commitment material. Its about time she admits that marriage and family is what she wants. She and Morelli belong together. Duh. And I really got tired of her being so dumb to be out in the open continuing to live and work as if the danger she was in were not serious. The ending was a nice surprise, but still wish she didn't always put herself in the position of having to be rescued by a man. I'm ready for Stephanie to do some growing up. ...more These books are beginning to annoy me. I thought they were amusing, at first, but Stephanie's antics and internal dialog are just too corny for my tastes. Also, a lot of it is getting repetitive. There are only so many mental head slaps I can deal with. I don't know if I am going to continue to read this series. It could be that I am annoyed by the voices Loreli King performs on the audio book version. Why does Grandma Mazur sound like the Wicked Witch of the West and Ranger sound like Tony Mont These books are beginning to annoy me. I thought they were amusing, at first, but Stephanie's antics and internal dialog are just too corny for my tastes. Also, a lot of it is getting repetitive. There are only so many mental head slaps I can deal with. I don't know if I am going to continue to read this series. It could be that I am annoyed by the voices Loreli King performs on the audio book version. Why does Grandma Mazur sound like the Wicked Witch of the West and Ranger sound like Tony Montana? ...more Couldn't bring myself to finish this book, the first book I've given up on in years. The plots and characters have became almost identical. Maybe as a stand alone novel it would be fine but as part of a series there doesn't appear to be anything to distinguish this book from the rest. Same jokes, same plot, same everything, the book feels like all the others just recycled. Disappointed. These books get better and better. Who doesn't love Stephanie? I like how she doesn't really choose between Joe and Ranger. She chooses herself instead and doesn't let them boss her around. They are just along for Her ride through life. \"Dudes, either get on or get off, but I'm driving\". These are good lessons for young girls. Be strong, fight hard, and do your best at whatever job you do Who doesn't love Stephanie Plum? And Morelli? And Ranger? And best, Grandma Mazur? The adventures of Stephanie Plum never fail to entertain! This was so enjoyable. I adore these books so much. Lula was, as always, hilarious. The storyline was fast paced and interesting and who doesn't love the sexual tension and hot guys? A very good read Laughter & Tears! I Enjoyed This Read! Another hilarious Stephanie Plum book. Encore un super tome, bien barr\u00e9 comme j'aime ! :D Another winner with Miss Stephanie Plum. I loved the reappearance of Sally Sweets, and I liked it even more that he had the rubber band to work on his swearing. It was so nice to not have all of those F-words with his character in this one (there were plenty of snaps on the wrist though! LOL). We got a peek into Ranger's life in this one, and all I can say is IT'S ABOUT TIME. I was getting a little peeved about knowing nothing about him. We are ten books in, after all. So I'm happy with the litt Another winner with Miss Stephanie Plum. I loved the reappearance of Sally Sweets, and I liked it even more that he had the rubber band to work on his swearing. It was so nice to not have all of those F-words with his character in this one (there were plenty of snaps on the wrist though! LOL). We got a peek into Ranger's life in this one, and all I can say is IT'S ABOUT TIME. I was getting a little peeved about knowing nothing about him. We are ten books in, after all. So I'm happy with the little answers we received in Ten Big Ones. Steph annoyed me (slightly) in this book, if only because she was taking unnecessary risks. There's stubborn, and then there's STUPID. And risking your life because Joe cares about you and told you to hold up in the house for a few days, is just stupid. That is my one complaint. But this was incredibly entertaining, and as always laughed a great deal. :) ...more", "Title": "Ten Big Ones"},
