{"Comments": "I\u2019m going to do something that's a little disrespectful and start this review by talking about another fantasy series that I\u2019ve enjoyed: A Song of Ice and Fire.<---F> That series rules</---F>. It has everything I\u2019ve wanted in a series since Tolkien but there\u2019s one thing to be said about it,<---M> neither good or bad</---M>, that is a big part of its impact: it is dark, very very dark. The darkness comes, as it should in all quality fiction, not necessarily from the actual bad things that happen to good people, but from t I\u2019m going to do something that's a little disrespectful and start this review by talking about another fantasy series that I\u2019ve enjoyed: A Song of Ice and Fire. That series rules. It has everything I\u2019ve wanted in a series since Tolkien but there\u2019s one thing to be said about it, neither good or bad, that is a big part of its impact: it is dark, very very dark. The darkness comes, as it should in all quality fiction, not necessarily from the actual bad things that happen to good people, but from the depth of the characterizations themselves. Bad things happen to very real, very well-characterized, and truly understandable people, and so those bad things are made all the more upsetting, all the more hard to read. So that\u2019s where <+++>The Blade Itself</+++> comes in. It is a funny thing for me, reading the reviews. Everyone goes on about how bloody it is, how graphic and hardcore, etc etc. How it is a part of the \u201cGeorge R.R. Martin tradition\u201d. Of course there is truth to that: much blood is spilled, incredibly tragic things happen, and hell, one of its central characters (<---B>in fact, its best character</---B>) is a torturer with an awfully painful past. But what I rarely see mentioned is the wonderful lightness of tone that makes the novel such a pleasure to read. For all its tragedies and darkness, the tone is amusing, light-hearted, comic, and never in awe of the various mysteries depicted. I laughed out loud many times. It is also a surprisingly tender novel. That comment may be hard for lovers of this book to read. But The Blade does not demonize any of its characters, it allows all of them (even Black Dow!) their moments of decency and kindness, it views all of them in such a cheerful, upbeat way, that never did I feel a sense of bleak heaviness at the tragedies displayed. Those tragedies are shown to be a part of life, for some, and although they are impactful, the characters are not beaten completely down by their pasts. It is not a sentimental novel, but it is a very sweet-tempered one. The down side to this is that, at times, the characters and situations have a vibe to them that is almost close to being a sitcom. The upside is that it is wall-to-wall pleasure and at the end of the novel, I felt uplifted, rather than weighted down. It is a wonderful antidote to the compelling but grueling Song of Ice and Fire. A kind of tonic. The novel is a breezy delight and I am really looking forward to the rest of the series. Oh yeah, almost forgot to mention: the author knows how to write action sequences. They were truly exciting, even cinematic in the clarity of what was happening. Often fights are confusing affairs in fantasy, but that is not the case here. The whole novel had a brisk yet cinematic feel to it. I choose Matthew MacFayden to play Inquisitor Glotka! ...more Anton Chekhov famously said that if an author mentions a gun, it had better go off at some point, a point often attributed to Raymond Chandler (who at least practiced this rule). The same goes for fantasy writers. Fantasy doesn't need to be all blood and whirling blades, but if a fantasy writer straps a broadsword to a character's side, it had better be drawn in anger, at some point. This was one of the best fantasy novels I've read in a while, especially impressive as it's a first novel. It has Anton Chekhov famously said that if an author mentions a gun, it had better go off at some point, a point often attributed to Raymond Chandler (who at least practiced this rule). The same goes for fantasy writers. Fantasy doesn't need to be all blood and whirling blades, but if a fantasy writer straps a broadsword to a character's side, it had better be drawn in anger, at some point. This was one of the best fantasy novels I've read in a while, especially impressive as it's a first novel. It has a fair amount of the aforementioned blood and swordplay, but it is much more than that. The characters are finely drawn and the story is both complex and well-paced. For me, the most interesting character was the Inquisitor Glotka, who is deliciously cynical. A formerly dashing officer, he was taken as a prisoner of war and tortured. Having subsequently become a professional torturer himself, he can't help but admire the skill and creativity his captors put into breaking him. He harbors a great deal of hatred for his former comrades, who he feels forgot about him in captivity and would like to forget him still. Glotka serves the Union, a civilization confident of its superiority, centered on the decadent city of Adua. War is brewing in the barbarian North and in the Gurkish south. Into this setting comes the wizard Bayaz, accompanied by the barabarian warrior <---C>Logen Ninefingers</---C>. Logen is famed in the North as a master of violence, but it is a reputation he wishes he could put behind him. Bayaz won't let him get away that easily, however, needing the barbarian's skills for his own purposes. Bayaz has interests of his own in Adua, tied to the distant past and the vanquishing of a dark magus who was the founder of the city. Bayaz spends a good deal of his time acting un-wizardly (in Logen's opinion), more like a balding, fat, lazy peasant. It is an assessment others make, to the point that they risk underestimating the cranky, old man. Abercrombie's accounts of fighting are incredibly well-done, fast paced and capturing the fear and confusion, along with the rage and bloody-minded delight of mastering an opponent. Yet, the violence in this book takes an emotional toll on those involved. Also, his accounts of magic are very good, not flashy but weird and disturbing. A lot of fantasy writers make the mistake of giving the reader too much information about the world they've created. Abercrombie gives enough background to keep the plot going, leaving the rest as tantalizing clues that give the sense of a real world. The only part of the book where I thought he was giving us too much was in regard to the fencing tournament that the nobleman Jezal dan Luthar takes part in. It did help display the arrogant, selfish character of Captain Luthar, but I felt there was a bit too much detail expended on it. Still, this is the first book of a trilogy, so perhaps the event of the tournament will figure later in the story. All in all, this was a great read. I've read too much fantasy in recent years that seemed too much like feminist theory or post-Marxian cultural critique with dragons, often written with a faux-epic wordiness. (I really think this is why the Potter books were so popular with adults; they were looking for something story-driven.) This book by <---A>Joe Abercrombie</---A> is an antidote for a lot that has been wrong in fantasy literature. ...more Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews As I\u2019ve mentioned in other reviews, Joe Abercrombie is a fantasy author who all my real-life friends have raved about for years and insisted that I read. From their proselyting, it seemed that my life would not be complete without sampling Lord Grimdark\u2019s wares. So, in order to save myself from some accursed fate, I read the first two novels in Abercrombie\u2019s Shattered Sea series. Unfortunately, grimwhine was not for me. If interested in the \u201cwhy\u201d, you ca Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews As I\u2019ve mentioned in other reviews, Joe Abercrombie is a fantasy author who all my real-life friends have raved about for years and insisted that I read. From their proselyting, it seemed that my life would not be complete without sampling Lord Grimdark\u2019s wares. So, in order to save myself from some accursed fate, I read the first two novels in Abercrombie\u2019s Shattered Sea series. Unfortunately, grimwhine was not for me. If interested in the \u201cwhy\u201d, you can read my reviews of Half a King and Half the World here on Goodreads. Naturally, my friends were aghast at my heretical dislike of Lord Grimdark. That led them to berate my poor taste in fantasy literature. Arguments ensued thereafter until eventually they understood \u2013 even if they did not agree \u2013 with my lack of excitement with grimwhine, and so these close buddies of mine insisted that Shattered Sea was really a YA fantasy series and demanded that I try The First Law before I abandoned Lord Grimdark, because it was his masterpiece. Well, I have recently completed my read of <+++>The Blade Itself</+++> , book one of The First Law . And, for those who have never tried it, I will attempt to sum it up succinctly for you. This is a story told from multiple points of view by several main characters with the most important being: Jezal, the rich, noble\u2019s son who is bratty and also a great swordsman; Logen, the northern barbarian who has a dark, mysterious past but wants to escape from it; Ferro, a fugitive slave from the nation of Gurkhul whose desire for revenge is greater than her common sense; and Glokta, a handicapped war hero who is now a torturer working for the Union\u2019s secretive inquisition. As a reader slowly tags along with these four, they slowly learn tidbits about each person, their pasts, the world they live in, and the coming conflicts that are a brewing. But finally, all these interwoven pieces begin to gather together for the last section of the novel in the capital city of the Union, where not only do these four interact with one another but also set up the story for the second installment of the series. Now, I did enjoy The Blade Itself ; it was an interesting enough book in its own way. However, the plot was a rather slow moving affair. (At one point, I actually found myself wondering if glaciers moved faster than The Blade Itself .) But once Abercrombie got everyone together in the capital, he did ratchet up the action, ending the story with a small bang. Even with that being said, however, the characters in this novel were a bit of an enigma for me. Going into my read, all I had heard was how amazing they all were, how brilliant the characterization, how . . . you get the picture: Great characters. And I suppose they were very well developed, but unfortunately, I didn\u2019t care one iota for any of them. Jezal made me want to slap him, because he was such an annoying, rich brat. Logen was boring most of the time. Ferro was an amalgamation of every ex-slave character I\u2019ve ever read about. And Glokta (though he is the most interesting) would be a heartless bastard only to then turn around and go all gooey inside because an old friend apologized to him. I grew tired of each very quickly. Thank God the viewpoint changed between them constantly. It grew so bad that (unlike Song of Ice and Fire where I got sick of Martin killing everyone off) I kept hoping Abercrombie would kill someone, so they might be replaced with someone less boring. I know all that sounds really harsh of me, doesn\u2019t it? But I did like The Blade Itself . Really. I\u2019m just disappointed with it. A disappoint that has grown rather than lessened in the weeks since I read it. Why, you ask? Well, for years, I\u2019ve heard all these grandiose accolades about this book. People would tell me it was the quintessential modern grimdark. The tale that revolutionized the fantasy genre for a new century. Hell, one of my friends even anointed Abercrombie the Tolkien for the twenty-first century. (Yeah, he is the president of the Lord Grimdark Fan Club.) But as I read, I just did not see any of that. Still do not in hindsight. It was a fine fantasy novel. Abercrombie spent a lot of time writing a fiction novel which was \u201cincidentally\u201d a fantasy. But revolutionary? Not so much. Glen Cook\u2019s Black Company series was more grimdark than this before there was a term for it. George R.R. Martin\u2019s work in Song of Ice and Fire was far more \u201cgrim\u201d in tone than anything I read here. Hell, even Mark Lawrence\u2019s Prince of Thorns was more \u201cdark\u201d and bloody than this tale. So for those reasons, reading this novel was a little bit of a letdown. With all that being said, I actually am looking forward to reading the next novel in the series. Now, I can experience Before They Were Hanged without any grandiose expectations weighing it down. It will be merely me sitting down to read an interesting fantasy novel about some people mixed up in deadly adventures, not me sitting down to read the \u201c MOST REVOLUTIONARY FANTASY NOVEL SINCE LORD OF THE RINGS \u201d and I believe that will allow me to enjoy it better than I did this one \u2013 especially if Abercrombie actually kills someone. I mean, OMFG, this is grimdark already; a main character has to die now! ...more I almost put down the book when 3 paragraphs in the first 3 pages began with some version of this line: \"Shit,\" he said. But I managed to slog through because I was told this was a some genre-breaking novel that didn't rely so heavily on typical fantasy clich\u00e9s and it was supposed to be really dark and gritty. Instead of gritty, it felt kind of like a teenager who swears a lot to try and sound like an adult: really forced and usually out of context. A lot of the writing in general seemed to trip o I almost put down the book when 3 paragraphs in the first 3 pages began with some version of this line: \"Shit,\" he said. But I managed to slog through because I was told this was a some genre-breaking novel that didn't rely so heavily on typical fantasy clich\u00e9s and it was supposed to be really dark and gritty. Instead of gritty, it felt kind of like a teenager who swears a lot to try and sound like an adult: really forced and usually out of context. A lot of the writing in general seemed to trip over itself. Good editing would have helped a lot. Luckily, it's a fast read and it only took a day to read it. Probably because I've read the books Abercrombie pulls from. Stop me if you've heard of any of these plotlines: A powerful and mysterious wizard who reappears at various times through history reappears once again to put together an unlikely fellowship comprising of each of the major factions that we hear about in the novels and they have to transport an infinitely powerful magical item somewhere. They have to be on the lookout for a fallen wizard who wants said item and a bunch of magically created servants who are going to hunt them down. An introspective torturer who's a shadow of his former self. Invaders from the north who won't listen to others about the REAL threat coming from further north. An unconventionally beautiful, plain speaking commoner girl, here to turn a certain nobleman's world upside down. There's more I could list, but I'd rather talk about the last one for a moment. For the majority of the book, this down to earth girl is the only female character in the entire thing. And she's a victim of abuse. She's really only there to complicate things for the boys. About two thirds of the way through, we're introduced to our second female character who is also, surprise, a victim of abuse and a former slave. Neither of the characters seems to really have any depth, at all. One could be replaced by a pair of batting eyelashes and the other could be replaced by the word VENGEANCE. ...more \"So, let's cast the characters for our novel, shall we?\" \"Of course, boss, Mr. Abercrombie, sir!\" \"Where is the run-of-a-mill farmboy with a great destination?\" \"I'm afraid he ran of the mill, met a goblin. Now rots in a ditch.\" \"Oh, how unfortunate.\" \"Indeed, boss, indeed.\" \"Let's see. What about the maiden fair in need of rescue from a dragon?\" \"Apparently she ate the dragon. Now she was saying something about a burning sensation in the...well...digesting area. Went to the toilet, never saw her again \"So, let's cast the characters for our novel, shall we?\" \"Of course, boss, Mr. Abercrombie, sir!\" \"Where is the run-of-a-mill farmboy with a great destination?\" \"I'm afraid he ran of the mill, met a goblin. Now rots in a ditch.\" \"Oh, how unfortunate.\" \"Indeed, boss, indeed.\" \"Let's see. What about the maiden fair in need of rescue from a dragon?\" \"Apparently she ate the dragon. Now she was saying something about a burning sensation in the...well...digesting area. Went to the toilet, never saw her again.\" \"Hm, what a shame. Well, what about a lovely elf?\" \"You wish, ey boss?\" \"Yeah, had to ask at least.\" \"Understandable.\" \"Maybe a sturdy dwarf?\" \"Nah, you know how they are these days. They all want to be Tyrion. More the sophisticated wine-drinking type, rather than being honourable beer-folk.\" \"So, what are we left with, then?\" \"We have a fencing soldier...\" \"Sounds promising!\" \"Yeah, just...he's kind of an ass. Pompous fool type.\" \"At least good to look at for the ladies?\" \"Might work, he's no sparkly Edward though.\" \"Come on, go Edward yourself. What else?\" \"There is this savage dude, but his best days seem to be over.\" \"Like a Baldwin?\" \"And he's missing a finger...\" \"So he's basically crippled...wonderful, anyone else?\" \"Funny thing, boss. There is this actual cripple. A torture victim, who's now an Inquisitor.\" \"You're kidding me?\" \"I'm afraid not. On a stretch I might have a savage female psychokiller on a revenge streak.\" \"Oh please no, not for the beginning of the novel!\" \"Maybe later then, boss?\" \"Maybe later, for now, let's work with these guys...\" And Abercrombie worked really well with them. I had a blast with his refreshing new characters. These miscreants really grow fast on you and you keep rooting for the strangest guys. As the novel is really character focused, the main plot is more of a build-up to bigger things in the later books. But it's interesting enough and has a lot of potential. Therefore I'm going to dive into the other two books of the First Law trilogy in the near future. Maybe there are even more casting surprises ahead. \"Oh, boss...one thing...the savage guy brought some friends aswell.\" \"Of course, he did, of course...we'll make it work.\" ...more The Blade Itself will undoubtedly become classic fantasy. I found it engrossing, and one of the best examples of the \"darker\" epic fantasies, with protagonists lacking in traditional heroic qualities and quests that are less than selfless. I liked the way the story was constructed, primarily following three main characters, with a fourth was added partway through the book. I was fairly certain they would intersect at some point, so part of the interest in the story is seeing how their individual The Blade Itself will undoubtedly become classic fantasy. I found it engrossing, and one of the best examples of the \"darker\" epic fantasies, with protagonists lacking in traditional heroic qualities and quests that are less than selfless. I liked the way the story was constructed, primarily following three main characters, with a fourth was added partway through the book. I was fairly certain they would intersect at some point, so part of the interest in the story is seeing how their individual tales will intertwine. The stories of each are mostly linear, with some appropriate flashbacks, but never done so choppily that one can't tell primary time frame. I can't tell you what a relief this is; I've been reading too many deconstructionist sort of fantasies lately where narrative skill is dropped for the ease of disjointed four-page scenes. Does everyone have narrative ADD? However, I digress. Abercrombie has a gift for clear storytelling without simplicity. While I had heard this was a \"dark fantasy,\" with unlikeable characters, I would wholeheartedly disagree, at least within the confines of this book. Perhaps on the surface our three main characters are unlikeable--one a 'barbarian' with a very bloody past, Logen Ninefingers; one a vain and talented peacock, Captain Jezel; and the last a maimed and internally tortured torturer, Inquisitor Glokta--but they are imbued with a humanity that makes them likeable despite themselves. Frequently we are privy to their decision-making process, and it becomes evident that their motives are more complex than simple bloodthirst, vanity or hate. Ninefingers is undergoing a shift in his feelings on fighting and war, after losing everything he has loved. It's lovely seeing how the entitled noble Jezel finds himself attracted to someone very different than he, and the stages he goes through as he realizes his love. Glokta's interactions with the Arch Lector are stunning; we quickly develop the sense of the long term and unethical mechaniations of the Arch Lector and develop further sympathy for the poor torturer. It was a brilliant way to help readers understand the political ramifications of the actions we've been witnessing without a lot of dreary exposition or monologues. A portentous and sinister air developes through the book. There is the larger issue of the Union and it's surrounding countries preparing for war, and the local issue of a power vacuum around king's throne, and competing interests. The evil characters are frightening-the Northmen have a sorceress working with them, and the Emperor of Gurkhul uses monsters called \"Eaters\" as enforcers. Nonetheless, there are light moments, and moments of redemption, even in beginning chapters, such as when Logen decides to rescue someone, even if it should mean his death. It's an astonishing level of complexity, but Abercrombie handles it well. I've already got the second book on my shelf waiting to be read. Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2012/1... ...more On the run from a king he once served, barbarian Logen Ninefingers finds himself in the Union's capital, aligned with Bayaz, a legendary wizard long thought dead. Meanwhile, nobleman Captain Jezal Luthar trains for The Contest, a fencing spectacle, while lusting after Ardee West, sister of one of his comrades. Inquistor Glokta, crippled former swordsman, skulks around in the darkness, torturing the answers he seeks while searching for treason at every turn. What is Bayaz planning? Will Jezal bed On the run from a king he once served, barbarian Logen Ninefingers finds himself in the Union's capital, aligned with Bayaz, a legendary wizard long thought dead. Meanwhile, nobleman Captain Jezal Luthar trains for The Contest, a fencing spectacle, while lusting after Ardee West, sister of one of his comrades. Inquistor Glokta, crippled former swordsman, skulks around in the darkness, torturing the answers he seeks while searching for treason at every turn. What is Bayaz planning? Will Jezal bed his best friend's sister? Will Glokta be able to outmaneuver the other inquistors? After reading Red Country, I had to see how it all began. I was most pleased. The Blade Itself reads like Terry Pratchett on the mother of all bad days. While there is a surprising amount of humor, there are also buckets of blood and gore. Abercrombie writes fantastic battle scenes and I suspect they will only get better as the series progresses. Anyway, the strength of The Blade Itself is in the characters. While many of them fit standard fantasy archetypes, they also are far from typical. Logen Ninefingers is a barbarian that spends a lot of time thinking and being scared, guilty of a hundred atrocities. Bayaz is an ages-old wizard that looks like a blacksmith. Inquistor Glokta seems like a pretty reprehensible torturer and guardsman at first glance but there is a lot more to him than meets the eye. Jezal is a great swordsman but also a snobbish bastard. I'm also very interested in Yugei and Ferro and Logen's former band of not-so-merry men. I can't wait until they find out their old leader is still alive. I'm going to sidestep going into too much of the plot. to avoid spoilage. Suffice to say, I'm intrigued of what I've seen so far, bringing me to my next point. The only gripe I have about this book is that it very much feels like the first book in a trilogy. Most of it feels like setup to me. Fortunately, I think Abercrombie is move than capable of delivering the goods in future volumes so it's barely a gripe. Additional Thoughts: - Logen Ninefingers is quickly climbing the ranks of my favorite characters in science fiction and fantasy. - Also, Logen reminds me of a young version of Terry Pratchett's Cohen The Barbarian. - I'm not sure if Abercrombie has ever read Hugh Cook's Chronicles of an Age of Darkness series but the writing and morally ambiguous characters make them spiritual brothers. - I have a feeling Glokta will wind up being my second favorite character in the series. - I love Abercrombie's magic system and the history of the Magi. Four blood-dripping stars! ...more \u25cf Buddy read with the wannabe torturers over at BBB \u25cf DNF at 34% . You! Yes, you there ! The person who is reading this review right now! Are you one of the hilarious people who told me I was going LOVE this book? You aren't? It's your lucky day , you should try playing the lottery or something. Now. If you are one of the delirious people who did tell me I was going to LOVE this book\u2026oh man, you are SO doomed . I mean, what the bloody hell ??!! How DARE you suicidal people lure me into this by danglin \u25cf Buddy read with the wannabe torturers over at BBB \u25cf DNF at 34% . You! Yes, you there ! The person who is reading this review right now! Are you one of the hilarious people who told me I was going LOVE this book? You aren't? It's your lucky day , you should try playing the lottery or something. Now. If you are one of the delirious people who did tell me I was going to LOVE this book\u2026oh man, you are SO doomed . I mean, what the bloody hell ??!! How DARE you suicidal people lure me into this by dangling a supposedly awesomely irresistible, blood-shedding torturer in front of my lovely nose??!! Here I was, expecting an uber cool, super hot homicidal maniac , and what do I get? An ever pity partying, toothless bore with a limp . Seriously? SERIOUSLY? What were you thinking, you crazed people ??!! Damn. Poor, pathetic Glotka is so grumpy he puts both the Grumpy Cat AND the old guys from the Muppet Show to shame . Grumpy can be sexy, but grumpy can be GRUMPY . And I know that looks aren't everything , but I draw the line at toothlessness. I could have survived the limp if poor, pathetic Glotka here hadn't spent every single second of his fascinating life complaining about it. Actually, he spends every single second of his fascinating life complaining about ALL his various and numerous and abundantly diverse pains, aches and ailments . So much so that I considered putting a bullet through his grumpy little head to put an end to his misery. Yeah, I'm charitable like that . Anything else ? Yeah. This book is boring as hell . Bye now . PS : I might be slightly charitable to Grumpy-Ouch-It-Hurts torturers, but I'm not so lenient towards delusional people who think they can recommend I read Crappy Books (CB\u2122) and get away with it unharmed, unscathed and stuff. All you people are now on my Shrimpy Hit List (SHL\u2122). Expect a visit from the murderous decapodic army shortly. There will be blood . [Pre-review nonsense] DNF at 34% . 34%. And it almost took me a month to get that far. Yes, the book was *that* brilliantly exciting . I loved every minute of it. Come on, Edward, time to bail. \u27bd I-hate-the- ill-intentioned -well-intentioned-friends-who-told-me-I-would-LUUURRRVE-Glotka review coming right up . You are SO in for that paid burn-in-hell holiday, people. My dear friends keep telling me I will LOVE Glokta. Might be because he's a cripple turned torturer (it's the torturer bit that counts). I have to say that Captain Jezal dan Luthar sounds pretty cool too: dashing officer and paragon of selfishness ? Works for me. Then there's Logen Ninefingers, the infamous barbarian . Don't really care about the infamous part, but the barbarian side of things sounds positively yummy. Strangely enough, no one tried to sell this to me by mentioning Bayaz the wizard, a bald old man with a terrible temper . Weird. Looking forward to reading this and then sending half of my friend list on a paid burn-in-hell holiday. ...more I'll start this review by saying that, currently, I have 197 Goodreads friends (which is really something, as I doubt there are even 50 people in my real life that I can stand). Out of those 197 friends, 59 of them have either read this book, or have it on their to-read shelf. That's 30%. Pretty much one in three. Numbers don't lie; they can't. So I doubt I'll be introducing the concept of Mr. Abercrombie's genius to anyone. In fact, this would be pretty much the perfect example of \"preaching to I'll start this review by saying that, currently, I have 197 Goodreads friends (which is really something, as I doubt there are even 50 people in my real life that I can stand). Out of those 197 friends, 59 of them have either read this book, or have it on their to-read shelf. That's 30%. Pretty much one in three. Numbers don't lie; they can't. So I doubt I'll be introducing the concept of Mr. Abercrombie's genius to anyone. In fact, this would be pretty much the perfect example of \"preaching to the choir.\" That's not gonna stop me from saying this: Abercrombie is a fucking genius, and this book ranks in the top ten best fantasy books ever written. The sheer number of reviews on this will let me squeak on by with no synopsis of plot, or detailing of characters. In fact, the quality of the writing is making me feel as if me even writing a review is somewhat superfluous. But I cannot move on to my next chosen book without gushing a bit. I want to marry this book. I want to be Mr. Shayne Itself, and have, like, a million gritty, fascinating babies with it. I want to look into its eyes as we make love, and let it know that I'm proud to grow old with it. But as my beloved state of Maine has not yet legalized the marriage between a human and a breath-taking work of literature, I cannot. I can only write a ridiculous, unnecessary review of it. Here it is. ...more 4.5/5 Stars I started reading this because a lot of my friends recommend me if I wanted something like Song of Ice & Fire series, this is the closest one, and imo they're right. This book follows the perspective of 3 main anti-hero (yes they're not entirely good), believe me you'll root for them when you read it. Logen Ninefinger, the Schizophrenia barbarian, Sand dan Glokta, once the best swordsman turned crippled and torturer and Jezal dan Luthar, the narcissistic fencer who wanted nothing 4.5/5 Stars I started reading this because a lot of my friends recommend me if I wanted something like Song of Ice & Fire series, this is the closest one, and imo they're right. This book follows the perspective of 3 main anti-hero (yes they're not entirely good), believe me you'll root for them when you read it. Logen Ninefinger, the Schizophrenia barbarian, Sand dan Glokta, once the best swordsman turned crippled and torturer and Jezal dan Luthar, the narcissistic fencer who wanted nothing more than fame. The book starts really slow but it really builds up a lot of story to be resolved in the next book (or maybe the last I don't know yet), not in this book no, there's way too many things unfinished so if you're going into this, please know that you're in it for the whole trilogy. Going to starts the next book soon after writing this and my recommendation is if you're looking for dark fantasy (it's bloody, believe me), with great characterization, dark humor and great action scenes, you can't go wrong with this one. ...more *** 4.75 *** A buddy re-read with my friends from BB&B Just as great as the first time around:-) Joe Abercrombie certainly knows how to write some disturbingly likable characters. In any other book the protagonists would be the bad guys. Logan Ninefingers is a brutal warrior who goes into insane blood rages where he kills anything, and everything, near him. Yet, weirdly, he is also a wise and sensitive soul. San Dan Glocka is a torturer whose heart is pure malice, yet somehow his attitude toward life boarders on the hilarious. These two are such great characters; they make the series what i Joe Abercrombie certainly knows how to write some disturbingly likable characters. In any other book the protagonists would be the bad guys. Logan Ninefingers is a brutal warrior who goes into insane blood rages where he kills anything, and everything, near him. Yet, weirdly, he is also a wise and sensitive soul. San Dan Glocka is a torturer whose heart is pure malice, yet somehow his attitude toward life boarders on the hilarious. These two are such great characters; they make the series what it is. A character defining opening I love how this novel begins because it sets the tone for the rest of it. Ninefingers, as ever, is in a fight for his life, but it is clear that this is neither his first fight nor his last. He doesn\u2019t fight with grace; he doesn\u2019t fight with much skill either, but what he does fight with is an animalistic passion for survival and, knives, lots of knives. He knows how to win a fight and it is, most definitely, not by fighting clean or with bravery. Sometimes, the best way to win/survive a fight is by running of a cliff. In this opening we see a glimpse of his complex character. \u201cThere are few men with more blood on their hands than me. None, that I know of. The Bloody-Nine they call me, my enemies, and there\u2019s a lot of \u2019em. Always more enemies, and fewer friends. Blood gets you nothing but more blood. It follows me now, always, like my shadow, and like my shadow I can never be free of it. I should never be free of it. I\u2019ve earned it. I\u2019ve deserved it. I\u2019ve sought it out. Such is my punishment.\u201d Indeed, he is very well written. There\u2019s so much more to him than his outwardly barbarian appearance; he is more than a survivor and a pragmatist. He knows when his luck has run out; it\u2019s why he has survived for so long. There\u2019s wisdom inside him too. He\u2019s an exceptionally good judge of character. When the plot sends him in the path of Bayaz, a powerful mage, he can see the man\u2019s worth almost instantly; he can see exactly what he is about and how unstraightforward his intentions are. He is forced to go along with his plans, but he knows not to fully trust him. He can smell deception a mile away. After all, you have to be realistic about these things. (I just had to say it!) A twisted world It is clear that Ninefingers is far from a good man. He has killed countless people, and he has enjoyed it. Yet, somehow Abercrombie has made this bloodthirsty barbarian into a likable protagonist. He is simply who he is. It makes me wonder that if the protagonist is this brutal, then the antagonists must be terrible people. They must be much worse than Logan. Though, something does tell me that there are very few good men in this world. Everybody is in a shadowy place of dark and questionable morals. I love it. \u201cThere was nothing to be gained by losing his temper. There was never anything to be gained by that.\u201d Indeed, Gloka is just as nasty. He enjoys inflicting pain, through torture, in the same way it was done to him. But, at the same time, he works for the government and serves his country. So he can\u2019t be all that bad, right? Wrong. He is much, much, worse. He is one of the darkest characters in fantasy that isn\u2019t the villain. However, he is also brilliant. His wit and attitude reminds me somewhat of Tyrion Lannister. If these two met, it would certainly lead to one incredibly interesting conversation. Say one thing of Abercrombie; say he can write disturbingly likable characters, and novels; he\u2019s quite good at novels too. You have to be realistic about these things. I\u2019ve really got to stop saying that! The First Law Trilogy 1. The Blade Itself - A bloody four stars 2. Before They Were Hanged - A gritty four stars ...more This is the first of Abercrombie that I've ever read. The Blade Itself is the first novel in The First Law trilogy and his debut novel. It follows the various misadventures of three interlocking story lines - that of Logen Ninefingers, a Named Man and barbarian; Jezal dan Luthar, a self-absorbed young soldier; and Inquisitor Glokta, cripple soldier turned torturer. Bubbling away in the background is a war against the Northmen, the reappearance of the very mysterious Shanka, and the return of th This is the first of Abercrombie that I've ever read. The Blade Itself is the first novel in The First Law trilogy and his debut novel. It follows the various misadventures of three interlocking story lines - that of Logen Ninefingers, a Named Man and barbarian; Jezal dan Luthar, a self-absorbed young soldier; and Inquisitor Glokta, cripple soldier turned torturer. Bubbling away in the background is a war against the Northmen, the reappearance of the very mysterious Shanka, and the return of the First of the Magi: Bayaz. There is not a great deal of magic in this novel - although there is the potential for much, much more in the rest of the trilogy, I'm sure - and the characters come to the fore, swearing and fighting their way through the plot. Reading the first half of The First Law was a really slow process. I wouldn't call it boring, because it was actually interesting; it's just that there was really a bunch of details. But that's normal, I guess, for a first installment on a series. The author has to explain the background story and everything, and that takes some time. Nothing to worry about, though, if you have already experienced Martin , Tolkien or Rothfuss . The prose is straight forwards and pragmatic. It sometimes suffers from repetition, and is a little self-consciously clever at times. It never reaches the heights of authors like Knut Hamsun or Patrick Rothfuss , but it is serviceable and flows. I found the pace a little uneven. Sometimes I found myself turning the pages feverishly; at other points I reached almost a standstill, because of the slightly dull descriptive passages, especially the ones about politics. In my opinion, Abercrombie is at his fiery best when describing battles - one on one combat; ambushes; midnight flights and fights through the city. All of these were splendid! About the characters, I liked most of them. Actually, at the first 25% of the book or so, the only thing that was really appealing to me on the whole story was the relationship between Logen and Quai. I always have fun watching knights trying to interact with intellectuals. Not that Logen is not intelligent or something. On the contrary, he is quite the thinking barbarian. It was fun seeing him muttering 'I am still alive, I am still alive' after every battle; his wry amusement at the fact he more frightens than attracts the ladies; and the mystery of his altar-ego Ninefingers, hinted at late on in the novel. Another really great character is Inquisitor Glokta. At first I really hated him and every chapter which presented him as the POV would be a pain for me to read. As the story went on, though, I learned to appreciate his grumpiness, his sarcastic and lugubrious way of going through life. The way the author lets us know what he is really thinking during his interactions with other characters made me snort with laughter on a number of occasions, despite him being a heartless government jerk. The end of the book took me by surprise, regarding Glokta and I am sure I will like him a lot more on the next ones. Regarding the story line dedicated to Jezal dan Ardee, I really liked it too. Every story needs a little bit of romance and theirs was very sweet. I couldn't have imagined that the arrogant young nobleman, Jezal, would react to love in such an innocent and jumpy way. However, the thing I like the most about him is his inability to go though social events as a normal person would; it seems that Jezal has a very short fuse when it comes to effusive people: \"Jezal wished they didn't have to celebrate quite so much. It was becoming embarrassing.\" I do feel his pain... Anyway, I like Ardee a lot too. I always liked strong women in literature, they always bring a special touch to the story with their independence and, sometimes, hatred towards men. After finding out some facts about Ardee's past, I was really surprised at how normal she acted towards Jezal, to be honest. Not every woman that pass through what she did still see men with the same eyes. About the plot... there are a few black spots in my mind when it comes to it... it's not very clear yet. The thing I know is: we sort of have a war bubbling away in the background. We have a sudden quest - for what, we still have little concrete idea. However, the bulk of this book is introducing the various characters and their motivations, which seemed a little bit one-dimensional to me. Glokta is motivated by his pain and humiliation of being a cripple. Jezal is motivated by arrogance and not wanting to be beaten. Logen is motivated by the need to stay alive. Past this, I don't have much of an idea about who they are and why they do what they do. Abercrombie's work was not well developed on this point. The thing that is really motivating me to grab the second book and read it is the development of Glokta's and Ferro's story lines; plus, I am really curious to see what is the real purpose of Bayaz. All in all, it as a sufficiently interesting story with flaws that can be overlooked. I enjoyed the sharp-tongued characters and the unfettered joy of the battle prose. In conclusion, I will definitely be reading more Abercrombie . Interesting quotes that I didn't include in the review: But some things have to be done. It's better to do them, than to live with the fear of them. There is always something dark about a man with money. The best steel doesn't always shine the brightest. Life-the way it really is-is a battle not between good and bad, but between bad and worse. Some things have to be done. It's better to do them than to live with the fear of them. A man doesn't put on a mask unless he's got some dark work in mind. ...more Actual rating : 4.5 stars Back when I was in college and had to read a tons of French classics, I considered my dearly fantasy books as my escape, and I used to devour them all, good or bad, whenever I had the opportunity. Sadly, what had to happen finally happened : I grew tired of them, and spent years avoiding them, until a little bastard named Jorg came along in February, and then I thought : FUCK YEAH. There are still fantasy books I can enjoy. The Blade Itself is one of them. If I can't den Actual rating : 4.5 stars Back when I was in college and had to read a tons of French classics, I considered my dearly fantasy books as my escape, and I used to devour them all, good or bad, whenever I had the opportunity. Sadly, what had to happen finally happened : I grew tired of them, and spent years avoiding them, until a little bastard named Jorg came along in February, and then I thought : FUCK YEAH. There are still fantasy books I can enjoy. The Blade Itself is one of them. If I can't deny that this book contains a few great action scenes which were grandly appreciated (really), yet it's by no means a full action-packed book, far from it, and I'm okay with it. Why? Because there's more to it, and that's why it could hold my interest. Indeed there's just something in political and murder subplots in fantasy that appeals to me and never fails to captivate me . Don't get me wrong, it's not that long, boring ass wanderings we sometimes find *cough* The Well of Ascension *cough* . Not at all. In the contrary, in my opinion Abercrombie does a great job at both introducing a detailed world-building and an interesting cast of characters without never falling on the boring side. This may have something to do with his compelling writing, you know? Moreover there's nothing better than gritty, witty and hilarious dialogues in my book , and The Blade Itself is filled with them. Once again, my growing interest in the story can be linked to the blurred lines between good and evil or you know, right and wrong . That's fucking fantastic, because although I used to read a lot of fantasy books when I was younger, I grew tired of the great knights in shining armors many series promote. Because that's boring as fuck. Because that's predictable. Therefore you can guess how ecstatic I am when I come across a book where these stereotypes are torn to pieces. I don't need fairytales endings and super bright heroes. Because you know, I don't really like them most of the time. Why don't I give 5 stars to the plot then? Because in my opinion it stays quite unoriginal for a fantasy book, and sometimes the fact that it's a setup for the second book is obvious. Anyway, I find myself wildly eager to learn what will happen in the sequel , now that the die has been cast. The characters, though. Guys! The characters! These little bastards made my day . As you might have understood, none of them is likeable. Of course I love them all, what do you think? As Logen would say, let's be a little realistic here : I wouldn't want to meet them in a millions years - but the truth is, it's almost never the case with my favorite characters, because I have the bad habit of falling in love with characters who share a questionable sense of morality . Lately I realized that the only multi-POV I can handle are fantasy ones, and I really think that's because the characterization is amazing in these cases : from Robin Hobb to Abercrombie, every character is fleshed-out and above that, has a different voice . \u25a9 Logen. Meet this disillusioned warrior . Hey, you have to be realistic about these things. Give him a knife and watch. Isn't he amazing? \"Blood gets you nothing but more blood. It follows me now, always, like my shadow, and like my shadow I can never be free of it. I should never be free of it. I've earned it. I've deserved it.\" Well, now, I said he was disillusioned, didn't I? \u25a9 Jezal. Talk about a selfish witty brat . Okay, he's quite the little whining shit. Slap him hard because he deserves it, but loves him anyway, because... Erm.... he's kind of brave and made me smile so big ... Erm ... I think? Oh, come on, look at this beautiful declaration : \"Look, (...), I know you think I'm an ass and, well, I daresay I am, but I don't plan always to be one.\" Are you impressed yet? No? Okay. Sigh. You've got work to do, little Jezal. \u25a9 Bayaz, The powerful wizard . God, how I enjoyed his sarcasm! \"My help?\" interrupted Bayaz. \"You presume too much.\" \"But you - \" \"Oh, that.\" The Magus shrugged. \"I am a liar.\" \u25a9 Glokta . Last but not least, tremble before him, here comes... Body found floating by the docks... the great torturer! I'm not gonna lie, I feel like I'm supposed to hate him somehow... I mean, the guy cuts fingers for a living for crying out loud! But I adored his cynicism, and in the end, he's probably my favorite so far, because he's maybe the most complex of all, and I love me some multi-layered characters. \"What poet was it who wrote there's no pain worse than the pain of a broken heart? Sentimental shit. He should have spent more time in the Emperor's prisons.\" Yes, he's my favorite for sure. Or is it Jezal? Or Logen? Damn. I wouldn't be able to make a choice between them to save my life . Finally, in addition to their own awesomeness, the character dynamic is impressive : Astounding dialogues! Complex relationship! Trust issues! \u25ba Me . Watch this huge smile spreading on my lips. That's happiness for you. PS : I need to say something about the kiss scene. Her tongue lapped at his teeth? Eww, just eww. Please, don't do this. It's disgusting. For more of my reviews, please visit: ...more March 2016 Reread done and stars re-awarded. *high-fives Abercrombie This book sucker punched me. I did not expect this level of awesomeness. I did initially give this 5 stars due to superb characters, but downgraded it after some consideration regarding the plot. I know Lord Grimdark is a very popular author, but I had tried one of his books a few years back and did not care for it as much as this one. It was good, but that was just where it stopped for me. This book though, hit all the right not March 2016 Reread done and stars re-awarded. *high-fives Abercrombie This book sucker punched me. I did not expect this level of awesomeness. I did initially give this 5 stars due to superb characters, but downgraded it after some consideration regarding the plot. I know Lord Grimdark is a very popular author, but I had tried one of his books a few years back and did not care for it as much as this one. It was good, but that was just where it stopped for me. This book though, hit all the right notes. It did take me a couple of chapters to get into it, but by then I was thoroughly immersed. Loved most of the characters and for different reasons. They seem to be able to surprise you with the unexpected just when you think you know them. Some were asses. Some were wicked and some were just plain freaking bad-ass. And one was Sand dan Glokta. This guy rocked this book. I could quote so many lines.... (Must.Not.Spoil.For.Others.) Mostly this book IS about the characters, rather than showing us all the cards where the plotline is concerned. And although the overall arc seems to be secondary to setting up the world and its characters, Mr Abercrombie has done enough to keep me reading. Might be that he has just started the ball rolling, and we are about to hit the downhill slope! Even if the plot does get stuck a bit, he has given us a fantastic character pool to keep us entertained. Really looking forward to the next one in this series. PS: The little bit of history interspersed throughout was also SO interesting. Really wish I could find out more about the past of this world. Would not mind reading a prequel on the whole Kanedias/Juvens story or even a different story set in that period. Seems like so much knowledge has been lost in the time since the Euz brothers passed from this world. ...more 6.0 stars (One of My All Time Favorites). Absolutely outstanding debut novel. Right along side The Lies of Locke Lamora by Scott Lynch and The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss as the best debut Fantasy novels of the last few years. This book is as good as the fantasy genre gets and I can not wait to read the sequel. Finally, IMHO, Glotka is one of the most original and best developed characters in a long time. Highly recommended. Nominee: John A. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Novel (2008) 6.0 stars (One of My All Time Favorites). Absolutely outstanding debut novel. Right along side The Lies of Locke Lamora by Scott Lynch and The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss as the best debut Fantasy novels of the last few years. This book is as good as the fantasy genre gets and I can not wait to read the sequel. Finally, IMHO, Glotka is one of the most original and best developed characters in a long time. Highly recommended. Nominee: John A. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Novel (2008). ...more It's been a while since I read a fantasy trilogy all the way through, back to back. Joe Abercrombie's The First Law series was too compelling not to finish in a single marathon. The first book, The Blade Itself, introduces a cast of well-developed, complex characters throw together in a world loosely based on medieval Europe. At first, it's not entirely clear what the major story line will be. It's also not clear who the good guys and bad guys are -- kind of like real life. If this sounds like A It's been a while since I read a fantasy trilogy all the way through, back to back. Joe Abercrombie's The First Law series was too compelling not to finish in a single marathon. The first book, The Blade Itself, introduces a cast of well-developed, complex characters throw together in a world loosely based on medieval Europe. At first, it's not entirely clear what the major story line will be. It's also not clear who the good guys and bad guys are -- kind of like real life. If this sounds like A Game of Thrones, well, yes -- the series are very different, but they do share some elements: morally complex protagonists, no easy answers, and a well-rendered world with a long history and many cultures. Logen Ninefingers, the Northern berserker, alone is worth reading about, but he's only one of many great characters. San dan Glokta is the coolest, and definitely the most sympathetic torturer I've ever encountered. If you like fantasy, check it out, and stay with it until the end of the third book. The ending is both satisfying and unexpected. ...more 4 stars 1 1/2 I had avoided this book for awhile, despite all the good things I'd heard about it, primarily because I was afraid that the \"gritty realism\" proclaimed about in the book amounted to \"bleak and disheartening\". I read for entertainment, and I don't read to be depressed about the darker parts of human nature, because I'm quite familiar with them already, quite frankly, and so I saw this book and thought \"not for me\". But, still, when you see a book recommended by, seemingly, everyone, time and 1 1/2 I had avoided this book for awhile, despite all the good things I'd heard about it, primarily because I was afraid that the \"gritty realism\" proclaimed about in the book amounted to \"bleak and disheartening\". I read for entertainment, and I don't read to be depressed about the darker parts of human nature, because I'm quite familiar with them already, quite frankly, and so I saw this book and thought \"not for me\". But, still, when you see a book recommended by, seemingly, everyone, time and time again, you can't help but be a little curious, even if in a morbid kind of way. And then this book was voted in for the BotM in one of the groups I'm in, and I was assured by a friend who read the book that it was more gritty in the (paraphrasing) \"sweat and violence and man sort of things\" and not in the aforementioned \"bleak and disheartening\" kind of way. So I gave it a whirl. Well, I can say this for it - it's not bleak and disheartening, unless you count being disheartned by being so underwhelmed by a book so lauded by so many people. So I suppose I best actually talk about the book at some point. In short, this book reads like the sort of typical \"gather your party\" type thing, but that's all that it is. 500-some-odd pages of introduction and set-up. I saw someone else compare it to being like if you were reading LotR and the first book ended right as the Fellowship was preparing to leave Rivendell. I'll agree with that, and add to it that it's more like if the bits before Rivendell, bloated as they were in LotR, would be further bloated by getting character portrayals - thoughts and feelings and bits of background - of Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli and Boromir before we meet them. (i.e. We would see Legolas in the forest, with his people. We would get glimpses into his personality, we would travel with him to Rivendell, so on and so forth.) And, you know, that might even be interesting if it was done well. But when every encounter you have with a character is pretty much the same as the last encounter you had with him, with some minor differences, then it starts to feel less like \"character development\" and more like boring redundancy. Also, one part of the story which is lauded by others is the awesome action sequences. I guess they were written competently enough - at least I was generally able to follow/visualize what was going on, which is a problem I encounter a lot when authors write action - but what I never felt was any real suspense. Probably because I didn't care all that much who lived or died, but also because I pretty much \"knew\" how the fights would end when they began, and I was never wrong. All-in-all the story suffered from predictability a lot. Not to mention amateurish writing and hackneyed dialogue. But, anyway, it wasn't all bad. I did, actually, quite like the character of Glokta. Well, ok, maybe \"like\" isn't the right word, but I found him interesting enough and I'm curious to see what becomes of him. I also generally like West and Ardee, and Bayaz had his moments. I might read the next in the series. Now that the set-up is finally over, I can hope that the next one moves along at a better pace, and that things actually get rolling. I've also been promised that there's character development and intrigue and things which are occassionally glimpsed in this book, which promises the potential for more. And I've been told that the writing improves, too, and that can only be a good thing. So, while this book ends up pretty low in my rating, I probably will read the next one at some point. (Afterall, I do already have a copy of it, so it seems a waste not to.) I can't see myself rushing to get to it, though. ...more I can certainly say that this book is gritty. So, you start reading it and it pushes your face in mud, sweat and blood. If someone just falls somewhere or rolls down the stairs, you can be sure, it will be shown with all the glory of sticky stuff running down the face with an agonizing squirm. It reminds me of Tolkien or Sapowski in some episodes. But this book is not just a merciless hole covered in darkness and blood. You can find a lot of fun, humor (slight or hard)and that just makes the book I can certainly say that this book is gritty. So, you start reading it and it pushes your face in mud, sweat and blood. If someone just falls somewhere or rolls down the stairs, you can be sure, it will be shown with all the glory of sticky stuff running down the face with an agonizing squirm. It reminds me of Tolkien or Sapowski in some episodes. But this book is not just a merciless hole covered in darkness and blood. You can find a lot of fun, humor (slight or hard)and that just makes the book so outstanding and unforgettable. Now about the main characters. Here limps the Inquisitor Glokta (so lovely and charmingly bad and funny)- he was horribly tortured in the previous war only to become a torturer himself, when he returned, smashing out traitors for an organization which is in a need to gain political pover, forgetting about the safety of country and other people. Glokta clearly shows the true, complicated and fascinating nature of Abercrombie\u2019s skills to write. I think Glokta is the most stunning character in the book, with a charming sarcastic monologue with his inner self and the potential to really reveal the truly amazing character as he struggles to overcome the pain and suffering every day. And to make it more complicated, he\u2019s also showing no regrets and is a really evil sociopath. And of course, Logen Ninefingers, \u201cthe infamous barbarian\u201d. His situation, confused as a fish out of water nature throws most of the best jokes in the book, but he\u2019s not so interesting as Glokta. Logen's favourite activity through all the book is fighting, hope it will change in the sequels. The book reveals its story in multiple layers that blend and ravel skillfully, with the taste of blood, humour, political machinations, threat of war, ancient supernatural forces. This heads for something big. I REALLY enjoyed the book, it showed the fascinating world of badass likable characters and enlarged my database of quotes. ...more Buddy read starting 7/25/14 with Athena , Alexa , Kat Stark , Jessica , Jennifer and Eon \u2018History is littered with dead good men.\u2019 Do you like morally ambiguous characters? Do you want to read something where there is no clear \u2018all good\u2019 or \u2018all bad\u2019 persons, where people and their motivations are a mystery for the most part? If you love fantasies that focus on the characters a little more than the world building then this is totally for you. There is not one Mary Sue character in the bunch. Of th Buddy read starting 7/25/14 with Athena , Alexa , Kat Stark , Jessica , Jennifer and Eon \u2018History is littered with dead good men.\u2019 Do you like morally ambiguous characters? Do you want to read something where there is no clear \u2018all good\u2019 or \u2018all bad\u2019 persons, where people and their motivations are a mystery for the most part? If you love fantasies that focus on the characters a little more than the world building then this is totally for you. There is not one Mary Sue character in the bunch. Of the two main female characters one drinks a little much, swears like a sailor and isn\u2019t afraid to hand you your ass, the other is a stone cold killer. The men are just as diverse. Logen has a brutal and bloody past \u201cThere are few men with more blood on their hands than me. None, that I know of. The Bloody-Nine they call me, my enemies, and there\u2019s a lot of \u2019em. Always more enemies, and fewer friends. Blood gets you nothing but more blood. It follows me now, always, like my shadow, and like my shadow I can never be free of it. I should never be free of it. I\u2019ve earned it. I\u2019ve deserved it. I\u2019ve sought it out. Such is my punishment. \u201d And he is willing to take that punishment when the First Magis, Bayaz finds him and asks for his help. You are never quite sure what you are dealing with when working with Bayaz. Sometimes he seems almost fatherly or grandfatherly but then other times he is just downright scary. He definitely has a plan and through most of this book he was just bringing his group of misfits together to travel on and possibly cause a lot of mayhem and havoc. Then there is a completely different cluster of characters living in a city with a mad king and a magic tower that has been locked for centuries. Jazel\u2019s main worry in life is training for a tournament that should set him politically for life. He was so easy to hate in the beginning, but much like Han Solo he might be redeemable in the end. And Then There is Glotka I never knew whether I liked him or hated him. He has had a tortured life, like literally and now he is the torturer. \u201cEvery man has his excuses, and the more vile the man becomes, the more touching the story has to be. What is my story now, I wonder?\u201d Being inside this characters head was a trip to say the least and I hated loving him and loved hating him. But he knows that monster he is and the political game that he is playing could get him killed at any time. The strong point of this story is the characters and the complexity of their actions. While things were happening constantly and I was totally cast into this story I will admit that there isn\u2019t a lot of plot as of yet. It seems more like this is Part I of a 1500 page book. But now that we have met everyone and the stones have been cast I imagine the next book will have more plot details happening. Recommended for people who like there fantasy a little on the grungy side. ...more ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . I started reading Joe Abercrombie's debut novel immediately after finishing a very popular old 1970s classic post-Tolkien fantasy that had left me -- quite frankly -- bored. I had the flu, my body ached, and I was feeling sorry for myself. But by the end of the first chapter of The Blade Itself, I was feeling much better. First, Mr. Abercrombie's writing was vivid, tense, action-packed, and droll -- just the way I like it. Second, I found myself thankful t ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature . I started reading Joe Abercrombie's debut novel immediately after finishing a very popular old 1970s classic post-Tolkien fantasy that had left me -- quite frankly -- bored. I had the flu, my body ached, and I was feeling sorry for myself. But by the end of the first chapter of The Blade Itself, I was feeling much better. First, Mr. Abercrombie's writing was vivid, tense, action-packed, and droll -- just the way I like it. Second, I found myself thankful that I was merely bed-ridden with the flu, rather than in the situation that Logen Ninefingers was in. The story is told from several character's points of view -- the bloody barbarian who's lost everything and just wants the fighting to end, the former champion turned crippled torturer who considers himself an artist, the lazy self-absorbed wastrel who wants to be a swordmaster, but didn't realize he had to work for it. I would not like any of these people if I knew them personally, but after being in their heads, learning their fears, histories, and motivations, and even sharing a few enlightening moments with them, I realized that I actually care what happens to them! Mr. Abercrombie unfolded his story gradually -- the reader is not told everything at once or given pages of backstory and explanation of this world's history, culture, and geography. The plot just keeps moving and the reader picks up the details as he goes along. For example, we meet the Shanka on the first page of the novel, but we don't find out what they really are until page 435. There's plenty more we're not told, even by the end of the book. This mostly works because it keeps the the pace quick and leaves a little mystery, but I wanted a map ... I really wanted a map ... I can not remember what's south of where, which lands are part of the Union, etc., especially with two books to go, if I don't have a map. And I could not find one on Joe Abercrombie's website. I was disappointed with this. I need a map. There was plenty of action in The Blade Itself. All of it was realistic, most of it was scary, and some of it was downright hilarious. Frequent doses of droll humor was a nice counterpoint to all of the violence. A few scenes read like a Monty Python skit and I found myself laughing often. For the most part, the writing was excellent. Tone changed between characters' point of view, and the use of characters' internal thoughts was effective. More than a few times, however, I was confused about the object of a pronoun and that should have been caught by the editor. Also, the profanity was a little excessive. This book does not stand alone. The ending is not exactly a cliff-hanger, but it's not an ending. I'm glad I've already purchased Before They Are Hanged and I hope it's just as refreshing and fun as The Blade Itself. Read more Joe Abercrombie book reviews at Fantasy Literature . ...more Northern barbarian Logen Ninefingers tries to stay alive in the wilderness while being pursued by his enemies. When he receives a message that a powerful wizards looks for him, he decides to take a job even without having a clue what the said job is about. In the southern capital of the Union (this is the name of a kingdom) a crippled inquisitor Glokta does his job - a little too enthusiastically. He used to be a dashing military officer, but several years being a prisoner of war made him practic Northern barbarian Logen Ninefingers tries to stay alive in the wilderness while being pursued by his enemies. When he receives a message that a powerful wizards looks for him, he decides to take a job even without having a clue what the said job is about. In the southern capital of the Union (this is the name of a kingdom) a crippled inquisitor Glokta does his job - a little too enthusiastically. He used to be a dashing military officer, but several years being a prisoner of war made him practically handicapped with the only good thing that came out of this is his current ability to scare his prisoners by his appearance even before the interrogation. In the same city a young officer Jezal trains for an upcoming fencing tournament. He does not like the training, but has to take at as his reach father has high hopes for him. This is how the tale starts. Some more characters introduced later and they and the ones above meet and interact with each other. The first thing noticeable right away is the quality of writing: it really shines and up there with the best examples of fantasy genre. There are no clumsy passages, bad or forced dialogs, and so on. After a while one also notices the quality of written characters. The majority of them feel like real people - they act and talk naturally, even the ones with minimal screen time. I can only think of two exceptions where I felt major characters were somewhat wooden (Major West and his sister), but considering this is only the first book of the trilogy they still have time to develop. Several other things of note: I finally found a realistic description of absolute monarchy with all its corruption, decadence, and power fights. Utopian absolute monarchy with a nice kind king became a fantasy cliche started by none other than Tolkien, but as the real history shows it is not realistic and never lasts long. I also finally found an ancient great wizard - the greatest living - who shows his humanity and does not behave like a demigod who occasionally teaches mere mortals bits of wisdom; the examples are too numerous: Gandalf, Dambledore, Pug, Ged come to mind right away. So why 4-star rating then? The book feels like a giant prolog for the things to come. There is a huge buildup, but nothing exciting happens until the last couple of chapters and even then it feels like a warm-up. Glokta keeps doing his routine job, Jezal keeps practicing, etc. I was able to put down this book at any time without any regret. The buildup I mentioned kept me interesting and hopeful; I began reading the second book of the trilogy right away in anticipation. This review is a copy/paste of my BookLikes one: http://gene.booklikes.com/post/867675... ...more When it comes to an epic tale with moral clarity set in a supremely realised fantasy world, he (Tolkien) pretty much knocked it out of the park. But that means there\u2019s not much point in my writing it again, is there? Forgive me for saying so, but it feels as if folk have been writing Lord of the Rings again for a while now, and I think we could probably, you know, stop. - Joe Abercrombie, \"Bankrupt Nihilism\" blog The above quote is the author's response to a columnist's criticism that his work When it comes to an epic tale with moral clarity set in a supremely realised fantasy world, he (Tolkien) pretty much knocked it out of the park. But that means there\u2019s not much point in my writing it again, is there? Forgive me for saying so, but it feels as if folk have been writing Lord of the Rings again for a while now, and I think we could probably, you know, stop. - Joe Abercrombie, \"Bankrupt Nihilism\" blog The above quote is the author's response to a columnist's criticism that his work is morally bankrupt and an insult to the classic fantasy tradition laid down by J.R.R. Tolkien. You tell 'em Joe. This blog alone spurred me to read The Blade Itself , a character-centric fantasy, low on magic, high on horrific dentistry and body parts extractions. This book is clearly not for the faint of heart, there is a lot of violence and \"plain speaking\" language within, but no more so than GRRM's now legendary A Song of Ice and Fire series. If you read the negative reviews of this book, some of them will mention that the main characters are unlikable. I disagree with this criticism, I find the characters development to be the best aspect of this book. Perhaps some of the protagonists are supposed to be unlikable, but I like them anyway, some of the most interesting people are unlikable. Besides, I find them vivid and believable. As the book is comprised of multiple non-intertwining plot strands and the focus is more on characters than events, I would like to highlight the four major characters: Glokta - The crippled inquisitor was a handsome soldier before he was tortured and mutilated for years under enemy captivity. Logen Ninefingers - a Conan-esque barbarian with more flaws and fewer fingers Captain Jezal dan Luthar - the Bertie Wooster of fantasy Bayaz - a mysterious and obnoxious wizard who is fond of baths There are several more characters of note but a long list of unfamiliar characters would probably lose your interest (typing them all out would lose mine). Like a lot of fantasy novels, this is a multiple perspectives points set up. Part epic journeys, part political maneuvering, lots of fighting, occasional bits of wizardry and a smidgen of romance (surprisingly charming if not exactly sweet). The story does not drag at any point. The combat scenes are very skillfully written, you can almost feel the weight of the heavy swords being wielded. The prose style is witty and often humorous. As mentioned earlier, many of the negative reviewers seem to seem to be under the impression that the book, the characters, perhaps even the author himself are morally bankrupt. I disagree completely, there is definitely a moral compass here, some of the characters strive to do the right thing even if they go about it the wrong way. Doing the right thing is often hard and the characters in this book are just as fallible as we are. I already bought the remaining volumes. ...more I am trying to figure out what this book is missing for me. There's nothing that makes me angry about it, there's plenty to like. And yet, still, although I read it and mostly enjoyed it, the first half of the book is already fading in my mind, and I don't see any reason to ever re-read it. I'll probably read the rest in the series, and this is perfectly competent fantasy. It's just not...enough. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforceme I am trying to figure out what this book is missing for me. There's nothing that makes me angry about it, there's plenty to like. And yet, still, although I read it and mostly enjoyed it, the first half of the book is already fading in my mind, and I don't see any reason to ever re-read it. I'll probably read the rest in the series, and this is perfectly competent fantasy. It's just not...enough. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Logen Ninefingers is a barbarian from the rugged Northern country. He is content with nothing more than living to see another day. Everyone he cares about is dead. Inquisitor Glokta is 30 but you'd think he's 90. Hunched, crippled, in constant pain - Glokta shuffles through this story like an old man. He was tortured for 2 years in the Emperor's prisons, and now he tortures people himself for the Union. He is bitter, angry, tenacious and cynical. Jezal Luthar is a spoiled, arrogant, handsome offic Logen Ninefingers is a barbarian from the rugged Northern country. He is content with nothing more than living to see another day. Everyone he cares about is dead. Inquisitor Glokta is 30 but you'd think he's 90. Hunched, crippled, in constant pain - Glokta shuffles through this story like an old man. He was tortured for 2 years in the Emperor's prisons, and now he tortures people himself for the Union. He is bitter, angry, tenacious and cynical. Jezal Luthar is a spoiled, arrogant, handsome officer in the King's Chosen. He likes drinking, gambling, and skirt-chasing. He's determined to become a champion swordsman - if only to prove something to his father. Major West is a military man preparing the Union to go to war. After years of living apart he summons his sister Ardee to the city because their father died. He is surprised to see she is an attractive, sharp-tongued woman now. And this is a constant source of worry for him. Ardee may be sharp-tongued and often drunk, but these pastimes only serve to cover up her pain. Beaten for years by her brute of a father, she finally thinks she's free to make a new life for herself in the city. Too bad Major West has other ideas. Ferro Maljinn wants vengeance. When her family was slaughtered and she was taken as a slave to service the Emperor she vowed revenge. Upon escaping she's been killing any soldier or priest she comes across. A skilled fighter who feels almost no physical pain, she is even almost more barbaric than the barbarian Ninefingers. Bayaz is an ancient wizard who has stayed out of the affairs of the world for far too long. But now it's time to enter into the fray yet again. Recruiting Jezal, Ferro and Logen to join him and his apprentice in a quest to bring an end to the Prophet's reign, he's stirring up old controversies and holding nothing back in his attempt to make things right. This book is not to be read by itself. It is very much the first of a trilogy, an introduction. By the end of the book it's clear that the story is still 2/3 underwater, just waiting to be discovered. Like many fantasy epics, I was forced to take copious notes in order to remember who was who and who was doing what. People are often called by two different names. \"Esta es una historia sin h\u00e9roes. / This is a story without heroes.\" That's the opening lines to Caminos Peligrosos but it also could easily be applied to this book. Everyone is a jerk. No one is a hero. Everyone is selfish, brutal, cruel and self-centered. The reason I'm giving it a four is because I am bursting with hope that Abercrombie will help his characters change and grow in the trilogy. It is my greatest hope that they will grow brains, spines and hearts by the end of the books. However, if this doesn't happen I am knocking this book down a star. Jezal is already starting to grow a brain (although he still has a LONG way to go). Another thing worth noting is the sparse and straight-forward writing in this book. There are no unnecessary descriptions. There is no flowery prose. This is the Ernest-Hemingway-Style of fantasy writing. A lot of people will love that, but to be honest I would have liked a little bit more elaboration and a lot more...romanticism. This book is very grim. It is very straight-forward and grim. It places you in a world where torture, murder, disease, poverty, cruelty etc. are commonplace. Abercrombie exacerbates this by making all his characters depraved and unlikeable in some way. The best, most likeable character is the barbarian Logen Ninefingers. He's experienced enough death, suffering and war that he's now only focused on living each day as it comes. His constant refrain through the book (especially after a fight) is \"I'm alive.\" Sometimes \"I'm still alive.\" He still kills, he's still a fighter of the highest caliber, but he focus now is on survival, instead of being on maiming his enemies and tasting their blood like it was in the past. He is feared universally - there are legends about him and his ability to slaughter - but instead of being proud of this, he's just tired. He's easily the most relatable character in the whole book, and he's a vicious killer. Jezal Luthar is so smug and full of himself. He's also whiny and prone to temper tantrums. He looks down on anyone who's ugly, of low birth, old, sick, crippled, injured, feeble, etc. He thinks everyone is uglier than him, dumber than him, less deserving than him, and lucky he even talks to them. This is tempered a little bit when he meets Ardee and falls madly in love with her. He knows he shouldn't - she has no money and is of low birth - but he just can't help himself. Slowly, painfully slowly he starts to realize that his 'friends' are stupid drunks, that what he always wanted (to be the King's Champion) may not be all it's cracked up to be. Abercrombie makes him work hard to become a champion swordsman, and this hard work helps build some character. Also, by the end of the book he actually cares about Ardee (instead of just wanting to get her into bed) and makes some decisions that are actually the decisions a real man would make. He's still a selfish, arrogant, whiny jerk - but I can see Abercrombie starting to shape this character into someone who has a future. Major West - at times you think this is a good guy. He is of low birth, so he judges a man by his merits and not by his parents. He actively tries to prepare his country as best he can for war, even though every one else is more concerned with lining their pockets. He talks to Logen Ninefingers as if he is a real person with thoughts, ideas and feelings instead of just treating him like a barbarian. He makes Ferro feel welcome and talks to her as if she's a real person when she comes into the City. But he's also the kind of guy who punches his sister repeatedly in the face while choking the life out of her. Glokta has been described as \"the most sympathetic torturer ever\" in a blurb. However, I do not agree. It's true that Glokta suffers constantly, he has chronic pain from his years of being tortured in the Emperor's prisons. He's crippled, can't get out of bed by himself, can't pee standing up, and is missing every other tooth so that he can only eat soup and porridge. Despite all this, it's really hard for me to work up any kind of sympathy for him when he tortures people for a living. Just because someone tortured him and made him suffer doesn't give him the right to bring pain and suffering into the lives of others. And while he's not a sadist - I don't think he thinks torturing is 'fun' or does it for 'pleasure' - he doesn't shirk the work and he's very good at it. He doesn't have compassion, mercy or any good feelings whatsoever. He's bitter and hateful toward everyone he meets because he feels like he's been screwed over by life. BUT YET AGAIN, Abercrombie offers me hope by making Glokta take some glacial-speed steps towards growing a heart near the end of the book. Even the women (who of course are victims and have suffered just like every character in this book) are not likable. Ardee West is a drunk and insulting. You often get the idea that she doesn't have any feelings for Jezal and is leading him on either to piss off her brother or because she's bored. Ferro Maljinn, the ex-slave turned barbarian, has undoubtedly suffered a ton. Her family was killed in front of her, she was a slave for years, etc. but she is hostile, rage-filled, and deadly. She kills almost indiscriminately and sometimes makes poor choices in companions in order to get her revenge (for instance, working with rapists and child-killers). Bayaz, the wizard, is wise, funny, and powerful. But I feel like he is using people for his own ends, and also I feel like he doesn't respect Ferro or treat her the way he should. He's a bit pompous and egotistical - some would say rightly so. By giving me hints that these characters are going to make something of themselves, Abercrombie is convincing me to read the next book. I can only hope that he'll deliver on this promise. ...more Holy foul-mouthed, freaking God, where the hell has Joe Abercrombie been all my life? This is different from any other fantasy story I've ever read and I F*@#ing loved it. From Logan \"Bloody Nine\" to my favorite character, Glotka, Abercrombie just killed it, both figuratively and literally. It's fantasy turned on its head and having its throat slit. Dark, violent, foul and soooooooooooooo much fun. Executive Summary: I really enjoyed the book, but it felt mostly like setup for the rest of the series. Most trilogies at least have some short-term goal accomplished in each book, but I felt like that was missing here. Full Review One of the very first things Good Reads recommended me to was this book. Well this and Gardens of the Moon . I ignored both books until convinced otherwise by friends of mine. Apparently good reads recommendation engine knows what it's talking about, and I shouldn't ign Executive Summary: I really enjoyed the book, but it felt mostly like setup for the rest of the series. Most trilogies at least have some short-term goal accomplished in each book, but I felt like that was missing here. Full Review One of the very first things Good Reads recommended me to was this book. Well this and Gardens of the Moon . I ignored both books until convinced otherwise by friends of mine. Apparently good reads recommendation engine knows what it's talking about, and I shouldn't ignore it. I really enjoyed this book. It took me a few chapters to get into it, but once I was it was hard to put down. It's often described as gritty fantasy, and it certainly delivers on that front but I didn't find this book as dark as either Malazan Book of the Fallen or Song of Ice and Fire . It's certainly not a book to share with your younger kids however. This is the first book I've read by Mr. Abercrombie, and his first published work. It doesn't show. The book is very well polished. The characters are interesting, diverse and have a lot of depth. If you would have told me I'd like an arrogant spoiled rich noble, and deformed malicious torturer as characters before this book, I wouldn't have believed you. And that's neglecting to mention Logen \"The Bloody Nine\". He's got a reputation as a viscous killer, and numerous enemies who want him dead, yet for most of the book you wonder how that's possible. He seems more like a grizzled warrior whose simply been in the wrong place at the wrong time for most of his life, but somehow manages to survive. \"I'm still Alive!\" Eventually however, you learn that his name is well deserved. I think Mr. Abercrombie does a good job of painting a world that is not black and white. His characters all have flaws, some of them major, yet I find myself liking and rooting for them all somehow. I have two small fall criticisms of the book that prevent me from giving it a 5: 1) Lack of strong female characters. They aren't absent, just secondary. Both Ardee and Ferro are well developed in this story, but most (all?) of the point of view story telling is from the various other male protagonists, of which there are 5, compared to only 2 females, one of which only appears occasionally (Ardee) and the other (Ferro) who isn't introduced until much later in the book. One thing I think that George R.R. Martin does well is providing a sense of realism, yet still offering a good mix of female characters. I'm hoping we see more from Ardee and Ferro in the next book, and hopefully some additional woman as well. 2) As I mentioned in my summary, this book lacks some kind of short term goal. If there is any goal, it's essentially getting the group together to go on a quest of sorts. That's not really explained very well. The stopping point for this book was reasonable, but it was just that, a stopping point. Say one thing for this book, say it's an enjoyable read. I mean, you have to be realistic about these things. ...more \"A man does not but on a mask unless he's got some dark work in mind.\" I'm always left speechless when I take a random book and give it a try. You really never know what to expect within it pages. I didn't even read the synopsis, I just jumped into it and was Blown Away. The storyline was gripping and intense from the get go, with a rich and healthy supply of characters. I really can't choose who I love more. Logan, Glokta, Jezal Ferro, Quasi and Ardee ( to name a few ) are all amazing. Reading s \"A man does not but on a mask unless he's got some dark work in mind.\" I'm always left speechless when I take a random book and give it a try. You really never know what to expect within it pages. I didn't even read the synopsis, I just jumped into it and was Blown Away. The storyline was gripping and intense from the get go, with a rich and healthy supply of characters. I really can't choose who I love more. Logan, Glokta, Jezal Ferro, Quasi and Ardee ( to name a few ) are all amazing. Reading stories where the protagonist are flawed with dark and shady past intrigues me. I find that I'm able to relate more to them and identify with their struggles. The story starts off with a bang from Logen POV and that was enough to keep me going. Glokta ( I believe he's my fave character ) gives life to the pages of the book. I love when he interacts with the other characters and then has his ( thoughts, which are halarious btw ) about the individuals he deals with. It is a source of laughter for me and also lets me see the pain and hurt he is living with. Jezal clearly loves himself way to much but I love how you see his character slowly changing and re evaluating how he views life. This trilogy is one that I'm definitely continuing as I can't wait to see how this all comes together for all those involved. The subject matter are most certainly for a more adult audience but is a guaranted page turner from start to finish ...more I tried to read this book. I really did. I got over halfway through, but I just can't go any further. It's too damn boring and pointless. I hate every character in it. I'm not interested in what's going on in the slightest. I keep making excuses not to read any more of it. A good story is about interesting people doing interesting things. And this one lacked both of those things. I should never have to force myself to keep reading, I should be excited and compelled to read by what's going on and I tried to read this book. I really did. I got over halfway through, but I just can't go any further. It's too damn boring and pointless. I hate every character in it. I'm not interested in what's going on in the slightest. I keep making excuses not to read any more of it. A good story is about interesting people doing interesting things. And this one lacked both of those things. I should never have to force myself to keep reading, I should be excited and compelled to read by what's going on and how it's written, and I'm just not. If a book is so bad I can't finish it, it gets one star by default in my rules of reviewing that I made for myself when I first started out. I really wanted to like this book, because I hear a lot of people saying such great things about Joe Abercrombie, but holy crap, this book is just a complete and utter failure to tell a compelling story in every single way imaginable. If this is what I can expect from the author, I don't even want to try any of his other books. At over halfway through, the book doesn't really have any reason to exist. There's no point or purpose. There's no goal to be achieved. There's no impending doom, or mysterious questions that need answering. It's just a bunch of things that happen, rather than any sort of cohesive story or narrative. A story is more than simple a collection of things that happen--I'm looking at YOU Rothfuss!!! There's like three completely separate and independent plotlines that lave little to nothing to do with one another, and are all equally as pointless and boring. I don't like or don't care about any of the characters in it. I don't care what they're doing or why, when the author even bothers to tell us why. I don't feel any sort of attachment to any of the people, places, things or events. This is not how good storytelling works. It's like The Wise Man's Fear by Patrick Rothfuss. It's just a bunch of things that happen, with nothing tying them together in any meaningful way, and about characters that either a.) have no actual defined character at all, or b.) are utterly loathsome human beings. Not a great way to pique my interest. Chapters would start out, and my first reaction to seeing which character it was about would be, \"I don't care.\" Or, \"not this douchebag again!\" These are reactions that no one should ever have to your characters. When you don't like, or don't care about any of the characters in a book, there's no emotional attachment. And without emotional attachment, there's no tension or drama, because those things come from caring about the characters, and a genuine desire to see them succeed and overcome. If they're so bland, or without character that they might as well not even exist, and the reader is constantly asking why am I reading about this person, he's not doing anything interesting or important, and he's about as interesting himself as a plank of wood. Or are so loathsome that the reader actually dreads another chapter about them, you have failed as a storyteller. So yeah, I give up. I tried, but there's just nothing in this book I found even remotely interesting, and I just can't force myself to try reading any more of it. Sorry to any Abercrombie fans out there, but I'm done with this one, and good riddance to it. I absolutely hated the 2/3-ish of the book that I read, and was bored to death rather than entertained in any way by it. No ending, no matter how epic and awesome, can ever make up for the boring, soulless, and all-together pointless drudgery of the rest of the book leading up to it. There are far more interesting ways to set up a series than this. Thanks but no thanks. I'll go find something worth the time and effort to read. If anyone has a suggestion on a Joe Abercrombie book that is actually worth reading, rather than this boring, pointless mess, (meaning a book about interesting characters doing interesting things, rather than characters that are boring or loathsome, doing things that are pointless, completely unconnected to each other in any meaningful way, and boring as sin) please let me know, and I'll stick it on my to-read list. But if they're all like this one, please don't bother, because I didn't like it at all, and I don't want to read anything like it again. ...more", "Title": "The Blade Itself"},
