{"Comments": "This is easily the worst book I've ever read, and I've read Jewel's book of poetry. The story seems to exist only as a vehicle for Iles to create this ludicrous world in which sexy, teenage girls are unable to keep from flinging themselves at every middle-aged man that comes along. This might make for some great poker night b.s. stories for Iles and his buddies,<---M> but as a novel</---M>, it comes off as a pervert's collection of fantasties.<---F> Just creepy</---F>. Imagine if John Mark Karr rewrote Lolita, and you've This is easily the worst book I've ever read, and I've read Jewel's book of poetry. The story seems to exist only as a vehicle for Iles to create this ludicrous world in which sexy, teenage girls are unable to keep from flinging themselves at every middle-aged man that comes along. This might make for some great poker night b.s. stories for Iles and his buddies, but as a novel, it comes off as a pervert's collection of fantasties. Just creepy. Imagine if John Mark Karr rewrote Lolita, and you've got a pretty good idea. ...more <---A>Greg Iles</---A> should be ashamed of himself. I had shit to do yesterday. Important shit, I tell ya. But I spent all of yesterday (<---B>and yesternight, as my three-year-old son would say</---B>) devouring the last 250 pages of yonder book. Past a certain point, I couldn't stop reading. Iles wouldn't let me. I regret nothing. <+++>Turning Angel</+++> is the second book I've read by Iles, and the second book in the <---C>Penn Cage</---C> series. I expected a similar setup and delivery as I received in the first Penn Cage novel, The Quiet Greg Iles should be ashamed of himself. I had shit to do yesterday. Important shit, I tell ya. But I spent all of yesterday (and yesternight, as my three-year-old son would say) devouring the last 250 pages of yonder book. Past a certain point, I couldn't stop reading. Iles wouldn't let me. I regret nothing. <+++>Turning Angel</+++> is the second book I've read by Iles, and the second book in the Penn Cage series. I expected a similar setup and delivery as I received in the first Penn Cage novel, The Quiet Game , because, you know, if it ain't broke, why fix it, right? Well, Greg Iles likes to do things differently. At about the 450-page mark, the place where Iles dropped Cage into a courtroom in the first book, Iles flipped the script and took me in an entirely different direction. I said this next bit in my review of the previous installment in this series and I'll say it again: In a world filled to the brim with James Patterson and his clones, someone who respects the craft of writing enough to try something different in every book is refreshing. The best parts of this book are not in the synopsis. That's how it should be. The blurb would have you believe that this is some average, run-of-the-mill mystery/thriller. That is not the case. Iles has skills. Not only can he write, but he can tell a story like nobody's business. His stuff is captivating and exciting. More than once, I found myself yelling at my paperback. His novels are gruesome and fun and emotional. But, most importantly, they make you think. In The Quiet Game , Iles tackled race. That topic is prevalent in Turning Angel as well, but this time Iles ruminates on the age of consent and maturity. There is a strong theme and tone to this book, and you just don't see that these days outside of literary novels. The moral dilemmas touched upon herein will likely make you uncomfortable. But that's what good literature does. It challenges you. The decisions Penn has to make are career-killers. They are life-altering. And watching this man's struggle was utterly fascinating. In summation: I have many more Iles books to get through and I plan to take my time. An author like this is rare: someone able to tell an engaging tale while retaining literary merit. Turning Angel is as good, if not better, than its predecessor. My highest possible recommendation. Final Judgment: Black Pearl straight to the vein. ...more Greg Iles has written a 500 page novel which would make any person's stomach turn when thinking of the corruption of Natchez, Mississippi or I guess Anytown USA. This was at the core a murder mystery with a fairly engaging lawyer/writer Penn Cage. He is a good core character, but what ruined it for me and I can bet lots of fans was the disgusting portrayal of the affair of the town's 40 year old physician and resident hottie with the town's 17 year old high school queen. I'm not naive I know the Greg Iles has written a 500 page novel which would make any person's stomach turn when thinking of the corruption of Natchez, Mississippi or I guess Anytown USA. This was at the core a murder mystery with a fairly engaging lawyer/writer Penn Cage. He is a good core character, but what ruined it for me and I can bet lots of fans was the disgusting portrayal of the affair of the town's 40 year old physician and resident hottie with the town's 17 year old high school queen. I'm not naive I know these things happen, but Isle's justification for this throughout the book is that the physician was \"in love\" even though it's considered a felony in this country with a 30 year punishable offense. The side running story between Penn and his 17 year old babysitter is nauseating. Maybe I am more sensitive than most because I have teenage daughters. Regardless of how Isles puts it, the high school hottie fantasy with the especially lurid description from the girl's diary and porno pictures was sick. I kept reading to the end to see if finally although the good doctor was acquitted for murder he would be sentenced for at least sexual battery ........nope. All the peripheral characters have met their judgement day; the drug dealer, the druggy wife, the gangster exchange student,and even the politically ambitious distric attorney, but the pedophile doctor and the pedophile highschool coach both go free with no mention of justice for their actions and Penn Cage considers this a moral victory as the killer is behind bars. I found this novel poorly written especially the dialogue, it was stilted and unnatural and the subject matter really distastful. It disturbed me that pedophilia was glorified and that the fantiasies of middle aged men doing it with high school girls was attributed to \"the girls today aren't like the girls we knew.\" Not worth your time. ...more If you're just reading Greg Iles for the first time, here's his advice on the order in which to read his books: If you have just read Turning Angel, you should next read The Quiet Game, the novel in which Penn Cage first appeared, and which many readers believe is my best book. Blood Memory was written before Turning Angel, and Penn\u2019s father Tom Cage appears there in a supporting role, but I would read \u201cBlood Memory\u201d after \u201cThe Quiet Game,\u201d not before. You will appreciate Tom much more then. Of my If you're just reading Greg Iles for the first time, here's his advice on the order in which to read his books: If you have just read Turning Angel, you should next read The Quiet Game, the novel in which Penn Cage first appeared, and which many readers believe is my best book. Blood Memory was written before Turning Angel, and Penn\u2019s father Tom Cage appears there in a supporting role, but I would read \u201cBlood Memory\u201d after \u201cThe Quiet Game,\u201d not before. You will appreciate Tom much more then. Of my \u201cNatchez\u201d or \u201cMississippi\u201d novels, the \u201cPenn Cage\u201d novels are a subcategory. I\u2019ve tried not to write a series character, for reasons I\u2019ll discuss elsewhere, but Penn has cropped up as a minor character in other Natchez books, and seems to be developing a life of his own. Of the rest, Mortal Fear, Dead Sleep, 24 Hours, and Sleep No More \u2014while all set in Mississippi (or New Orleans)---stand completely alone and can be read at any point. ...more I disliked this book the more I read it ...I'm sure that the reason I, as a Black man, put it on my to read list is because some review must have said that it dealt with race relations in the Deep South, a murder mystery, and it had an abundance of Black characters. And it did. But I could not shake the feeling that all of the black folks were \"others\". None were drawn as real people but more like props...one central character..the ex-army drug dealer..hunh? was so cartoonishly drawn as to be lu I disliked this book the more I read it ...I'm sure that the reason I, as a Black man, put it on my to read list is because some review must have said that it dealt with race relations in the Deep South, a murder mystery, and it had an abundance of Black characters. And it did. But I could not shake the feeling that all of the black folks were \"others\". None were drawn as real people but more like props...one central character..the ex-army drug dealer..hunh? was so cartoonishly drawn as to be ludacris even by CSI standards..I kept thinking how much better G. Pelecanos or R.Price could have told the story. The author, I gather, is a European transplant who lives in MS. and it shows...while taking on delicate racial subjects he turns around and spouts racist notions in his exposition..the D.A. is a Johnny Cochrane like idealouge..the really bad guys are Northern Liberals.. and the only Asians are drug runners..Everything in the book would have been perfectly acceptable in a Hollywood movie but when I..again as a Black Man..cannot recognize the humanity in one single Black character..Oh yes there was a Black defense lawyer but I ask you ....why was he even in the book?..then I think I recognize a Movie treatment....\"CSI: the Movie\" ..when I read it. Spoiler!!!! That the white pussy obsessed Black drug dealer would keep our hero, the used to be racist now Klan prosecuting prosecutor, captive for weeks by shooting him up with pure heroin to avoid his trail is probably to much of a stretch even for CSI:MIAMI. This book wants it both ways..it presents a character supposedly rising above his racist roots fighting against deep South racism but yet pulls out every trope and racist stereotype in the book..the mystery is decent but even that involves a dry gaging plot of child molestation...no I cannot recommend this to anyone.. ...more I have enjoyed other novels by Greg Iles, but this one was disappointing, on several levels. For one thing, it was way too long; I found myself skimming through scenes that didn't seem to me to be either essential or interesting, including the ending, which should have been a high point but wasn't. Several of the characters were portrayed in what to me was a very unrealistic manner. That may be because I am not familiar with the teenage sexual habits that Iles described in such great detail. May I have enjoyed other novels by Greg Iles, but this one was disappointing, on several levels. For one thing, it was way too long; I found myself skimming through scenes that didn't seem to me to be either essential or interesting, including the ending, which should have been a high point but wasn't. Several of the characters were portrayed in what to me was a very unrealistic manner. That may be because I am not familiar with the teenage sexual habits that Iles described in such great detail. Maybe he is giving an accurate rendering, but I found much of it offensive and pandering to the least attractive aspects of sexual interaction. Maybe, by today's standards, I'm just a prude. Finally, the portrayal of Mia, the teenage girl who is at the center of so many aspects of the story, was strangely missing the kind of internal depth that could have made her emotionally compelling. Instead she was left flat, a huge missed opportunity. ...more This could have been a good book. Leave out all of Mr. Iles' sexual fantasies involving underage girls and gymnastic-grade positions, and it would have been a decent mystery. (And a 350 page book instead of 644.) When I started reading Turning Angel , I found myself arguing about reasons why I should like it. Synopsis: In a small American town in the South called Natchez, a high school girl called Kate Townsend is found dead. Beautiful, intelligent, and popular, her death sends the town reeling. Penn Cage, for whom this book is the second in his series, finds even more surprises. Namely, that his long-time friend, Drew Elliot, admits to having sex with the deceased girl. And by the way, this isn't a spoile When I started reading Turning Angel , I found myself arguing about reasons why I should like it. Synopsis: In a small American town in the South called Natchez, a high school girl called Kate Townsend is found dead. Beautiful, intelligent, and popular, her death sends the town reeling. Penn Cage, for whom this book is the second in his series, finds even more surprises. Namely, that his long-time friend, Drew Elliot, admits to having sex with the deceased girl. And by the way, this isn't a spoiler - it's revealed in the back cover and the first couple of pages. Pros It's a really good thriller. Really . It's interesting, with lots of murders, keeps the pace going without having cheap thrills, and there's a lot of suspense from the constant surprises that are revealed about Drew and Kate's relationship. And everything keeps getting worse, not only for Drew, but for Penn as well. It raises some questions for sexuality in small towns. Maybe drugs and so forth are just as prevalent, but hidden - and when something like a high-profile death occurs, the town explodes. Penn's struggle about Kate's death is rather fascinating. I like how there's his visceral reaction against a married, middle-aged man sleeping with a vulnerable high school girl, be she ever so mature, and his admiration and friendship towards his friend the doctor, who is accomplished, and noble, and intelligent, and has helped so many people. But more on that later. Cons There's some distinct racist overtones in this book. Among the other suspects for Kate's death, there's a South American exchange student, a black pimp and drug dealer, and her Caucasian estranged boyfriend. And Drew, sure. But out of the other three suspects, guess who is never seriously implicated in the crime? (view spoiler) [And the South American exchange student is heavily implied to be responsible for a lot of the crazy things that the local high school gets into, not to mention that he's responsible for Kate's death. The black pimp also becomes a serious suspect, and he's definitely not portrayed in a flattering light. Whereas the original statutory rapist - because that's what Drew Elliot is - and Kate's boyfriend are both cleared. (hide spoiler) ] Drew is presented somehow as a better, more manly version of Penn. Sort of an idealized version, except for his little tendency to have sex with minors. It sort of works with the message that Greg Iles is trying to send here... I think... except that it's never really made clear why (view spoiler) [Penn rejects Mia's advances and Drew doesn't reject Kate's. Is it because Mia's less of a special little snowflake? Is it because Penn's girlfriend doesn't pop pills? Is it because he had Drew's example - and arrest - staring in his face? What was it? (hide spoiler) ] Something else that bothered me: I've attended an American high school, and it was nothing like the way it was portrayed here. I may have been sheltered, but I highly doubt that the rampant sex and drug use are so common in high schools, because someone with authority would have noticed. And finally, let's talk about the middle-aged, married doctor man in position of power having an affair frequent, unsafe sex with a Harvard-bound, intelligent, athletic, mature vulnerable, fatherless, seventeen-year-old high school girl, shall we? As I've said, I tried to like this book, and on some level, I did. It's an excellent story, honestly. However, the message it sends across is repulsive on any moral level. Through the book, we see Penn find reasons to suggest that it wasn't as bad as just an older man having sex with a minor. He finds evidence that she was hardly a clean, good American girl and he even questions whether or not having an affair with Drew had added some measure of stability into the last days of her life. This is irrelevant. It doesn't matter if she had sex with every other person in her high school or how many other, less worthy people wanted her. Furthermore, there's no way of telling whether or not Drew having sex with her bettered her life, (view spoiler) [and considering that she bought drugs for Drew's wife, and it could definitely be argued that she would never have died if he hadn't started having sex with her, (hide spoiler) ] it's perfectly possible to say the opposite: that having sex with Drew ruined her life. She was seventeen years old. Even if she was a few months from the age of consent, even if she was mature for her age - whatever that means, even if she was the one who seduced him, it. Doesn't. Matter. As the adult - and as her doctor - Drew Elliot was responsible for making sure that nothing happened. He failed. The law is in place for a reason, and anyone who can disobey it so flagrantly deserves to lose his marriage, his career, and custody of his son. No one gets the right to decide to break the law, because it's not the rapist's decision to make. If Drew gets away with sexual battery, then it would send a message to all the other members of his community, who seem as though they have leanings in the same direction. For that alone, Drew should go to jail, and rot there. There's another excuse that Drew makes, that even Kate's mother makes: that Kate and Drew were in love. So in response to that, all I can ask is: if you loved her so much, why couldn't you wait a few more months? Instead, their constant escapades to have sex makes it look like a case of midlife crisis meeting teenage lust rather than some tragic love affair. And personally, I never felt as though the two were truly in love. But even if they were, and in case I haven't said this clearly enough yet, there are no excuses for sex with a minor. None. I apologize for the rant. Still, this is one of the overarching messages of the story, that there can be extenuating circumstances for statutory rape. In my personal opinion, that's simply not true, and acceptance of underage sex is one of those social problems that's considered controversial, even if the issue should be black and white. ...more I found this book disturbing on many levels not the least was the relationships between a high school girl and a doctor more than twice her age. Along with this, the doctor allows the girl to get into dangerous situations in helping him supply pain killers for his addicted wife. Penn Cage, his friend whose life the doctor saved, is sexually tempted by his daughter's babysitter, Mia Burke. Cage also puts Mia, another high school student, in tremendous danger when she helps him unravel the myster I found this book disturbing on many levels not the least was the relationships between a high school girl and a doctor more than twice her age. Along with this, the doctor allows the girl to get into dangerous situations in helping him supply pain killers for his addicted wife. Penn Cage, his friend whose life the doctor saved, is sexually tempted by his daughter's babysitter, Mia Burke. Cage also puts Mia, another high school student, in tremendous danger when she helps him unravel the mystery surrounding Mia's classmate's murder. For adult men, one a doctor and the other an attorney, it is unbelievable that they would place teenage girls in such dangerous positions. It is sickening, but believable, they would be tempted to have affairs with these young girls. Having just visited Natchez, it was interesting to note various places which were familiar to me in the book. However, the portrayal of the town would have changed my travel plans if I had read the book before going. Iles does not paint a very pretty picture of his chosen place to live. Iles's Natchez is rife with drugs, danger, gangs, murder, blood and gore, and it may be. Iles certainly will not be invited to speak to the Natchez Chamber of Commerce or Tourist Board any time soon. I'm not sure if my problems with this book are because of what it is or because I'm not big on fictional murder mysteries. What I found most interesting was not about the murder or those who solve it. I didn't care much about the characters, because I found the men shallow and the young girls just silly young girls playing sex games with older men. The interesting part was about the legend of the Turning Angel in Natchez City Cemetery. That is a supernatural aspect and one that any Natchez resident can tell you about. Rather than read the book, write the Natchez Tourist Office and request a brochure on the Turning Angel. It will save you all the agony of sloughing through the sleaze of Iles book. ...more Greg Iles used to be one of my favourite authors. Mortal Fear still remains one of the top psychological thrillers I've read. Since then, most of what I've read from him has been quite good, steadily meriting 4-star reviews from yours truly, but none have measured up to Mortal Fear. The Quiet Game I quite enjoyed, and yet after that, Iles had dropped off my radar. Blame Goodreads for exposing me to a gazillion more books. Whatever, that doesn't take away from the guy's talent and when I saw some Greg Iles used to be one of my favourite authors. Mortal Fear still remains one of the top psychological thrillers I've read. Since then, most of what I've read from him has been quite good, steadily meriting 4-star reviews from yours truly, but none have measured up to Mortal Fear. The Quiet Game I quite enjoyed, and yet after that, Iles had dropped off my radar. Blame Goodreads for exposing me to a gazillion more books. Whatever, that doesn't take away from the guy's talent and when I saw some more recent reviews of his books I decided that Turning Angel needed to be on my to-read list so I wouldn't forget about him again. Well, I'm not sure what to say at this point. Is it me? Have I outgrown the thriller genre? Here's the thing. Whenever I'm reading on the Kindle, if something strikes me as particularly brilliant, or particularly stupid, I'll type in a note. Most books that I've done this in have ended up with one or two notes in it. I made 14 (FOURTEEN) notes in this, and none were references to anything brilliant. Let me summarize the gist of these notes. I remarked a few times about a) a \"duh\" moment from our supposedly intelligent protagonist, and b) Iles really dumbing things down for the reader with reminders of who did what or who this or that guy was. I remarked about one girl who explains about how girls are these days, where they're so hot for middle-aged men. Look: I have a 23 year old step-daughter. She used to work retail and was occasionally hit on by what she described as \"old\" men (we're talking barely middle aged here). Iles expects us to believe that most of these high-school girls want to hook up with middle aged men. To quote my Kindle note: Oh, please. To quote my step-daughter: \"GROSS!\" I also remarked on Penn Cage's repeated claims on how much he cared for his daughter and is resentful of his girlfriend's not spending enough time with her. Holy shit. At just about every point in the story Cage is taking off again and leaving his daughter with the babysitter once again, not to mention putting himself in life-threatening situations. Pot. Kettle. Black. Which brings me to the obligatory shoot-outs. At this point the story was reading like a...well...a cliched thriller. Maybe I shouldn't blame it for being what it is. But I will blame it for becoming over-plotted and bordering on stupid for the final 100 pages or so. Turning Angel had so much promise for me because in the beginning it was the Greg Iles I remembered enjoying, and it seemed that this was another 4-star read. But as time went on I kept seeing stars drop off to the point were I just wanted it to be over. Maybe it is just me. Perhaps I've grown out of the thriller genre. Whatever it is, my review reflects my feelings on this book. 2.5 stars but I am truncating at 2 because of the 14 instances I had to stop and gripe about something. ...more Sweet Christ. This book is basically a dirty old man's fantasy: what all 16-year-old girls really want--no, what it BEST for them, is to have sex with a 40-year-old man. I get it, Greg Iles, you're having a midlife crisis. Do I have to read about it? https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201... I hated this book. It's filled with completely unrealistic story lines, characters that are patently unbelievable in a small Southern town, and the dialogue is extremely preachy and contrived. Additionally, the relationships between the protaganist and his babysitter has got to be a joke, right? She's constantly having this sophisticated and ultra-intelligent, yet sensitive and seductive conversations with Penn Cage, and it literally had me rolling my eyes. Also, if you have any sort of opinions I hated this book. It's filled with completely unrealistic story lines, characters that are patently unbelievable in a small Southern town, and the dialogue is extremely preachy and contrived. Additionally, the relationships between the protaganist and his babysitter has got to be a joke, right? She's constantly having this sophisticated and ultra-intelligent, yet sensitive and seductive conversations with Penn Cage, and it literally had me rolling my eyes. Also, if you have any sort of opinions of your own, regardless of what they might be, you may find it a little...oh I don't, repulsive, that this writer is basically using his fantasy for teenage girls as a medium to preach about race, how religion doesn't exist, and his leftist ideals every chance he gets. ...more Penn Cage returns in Greg Iles\u2019 novel TURNING ANGEL. Five years have passed since Cage solved a civil rights case that dated back to the 1970s and he has settled into his new life as an author in Natchez, MI. Cage a former prosecutor in Houston is a widower and the father of a young girl. Now a successful author he finds himself a pillar of the community serving on the St. Catherine\u2019s School Board among other official duties. The story begins at a School Board meeting when the school secretary i Penn Cage returns in Greg Iles\u2019 novel TURNING ANGEL. Five years have passed since Cage solved a civil rights case that dated back to the 1970s and he has settled into his new life as an author in Natchez, MI. Cage a former prosecutor in Houston is a widower and the father of a young girl. Now a successful author he finds himself a pillar of the community serving on the St. Catherine\u2019s School Board among other official duties. The story begins at a School Board meeting when the school secretary informs the board that one of their students, Kate Townsend has been found dead where St. Catherine\u2019s Creek washes into the Mississippi River. Townsend, a 17 year old senior, valedictorian, and athlete had won a scholarship to Harvard and now is the center of a murder investigation that will rock the Natchez community. Dr. Andrew Elliot is the leading physician in Natchez with a stellar reputation, and like his friend Cage very involved in the community. After the body is found he asks his friend to be his lawyer. It seems that Elliot, entrapped in a poor marriage was having an affair with Townsend and was being blackmailed as he wanted to keep that information quiet. Further, it was Elliot who had found the body and had intimate relations with Townsend two days before the murder. It turns out that Townsend was pregnant and that her mother knew about the affair and did not disapprove. Penn takes on the case and is up against Shad Johnson, the black District Attorney who is no friend of Cage since he believed that five years earlier he had cost him election as Natchez\u2019s mayor. At this time, the current mayor has resigned and a new election must take place within forty five days. Johnson sees the prosecution of a rich white physician as a way to reassert his bonifides with the black community and assure himself the mayor\u2019s office. From this point on the novel which has already engrossed the reader gathers further steam. Many of Iles\u2019 characters from his previous Penn Cage novel are major players in TURNING ANGEL, particularly Shad Johnson who has his own personal political agenda and is a thorn in Cage\u2019s side. A number of new ones emerge that are critical to the story. One of which is Quentin Avery, an elderly lawyer who suffers from diabetes. When Cage realizes that he is too close to his friend\u2019s case he hires Avery who agrees to defend Elliot because of his disdain for Johnson and other personal reasons. Employing Avery as his mouthpiece, Iles\u2019 views on black civil rights leaders emerges. He sees a crisis in black leadership and breaks down that leadership into a number of interesting categories. In today\u2019s climate of racial tension with Ferguson, Mo., Baltimore, MD, and events in New York, Iles\u2019 comments are important. He points to a managerial type who pretend that race is not an issue. These individuals want a large white constituency, but also want to keep blacks loyal to them. They tend to be pragmatic and want blacks to join mainstream society. Then you have the black protest leader that is loud and proud that want personal status and power, i.e., Louis Farrahkan and Al Sharpton. They tap into an emotional appeal and can be dangerous. The last category he terms the \u201cprophetic leader\u201d who relies on intellect, someone like President Obama. The jury is still out whether any of these types can be successful, however, thus far their success rests on the pervasiveness of mass market culture and the failure of the black middle class. Throughout the novel the plight of the black community in the south is ingrained in the plot and provides insights into all aspects of southern society. Another theme that pervades the novel is the drug crisis in America\u2019s schools. Iles is a very competent chronicler of events as they relate to the use of heroin, pain killers and ecstasy. By weaving the drug scenario throughout his story he is trying to educate his readers about this crisis and that something must be done to make our schools safe. A lesser theme that Iles explores that emerges in detail toward the novel\u2019s conclusion is that of the Yugoslavian civil war of the 1990s. Though briefly presented its horror still lives on in Croatia, Serbia and throughout the Balkans. Overall, Iles writes in exquisite detail that allows the reader to feel they are personally witnessing the action in the story. This is my second Penn Cage novel and I look forward to reading the other three. Iles is the type of writer that hooks his reader in the first few pages and does not let them go even after the book is completed. ...more While this was an excellent book with great writing, just as the others have been, the subject matter made me very uncomfortable. I actually look at Penn Cage a little differently now. He's come down a couple of notches. Now, on to The Devil's Punchbowl. From BookList : Call this one a well-written misfire. Oh, so true. I don't think I can even list all the reasons I dislike this book. So, I'll list only two: characters and plot. Pretty much sums it up for me. (I have to add that the conclusion ... no, just no.) Plenty of one and two star reviews on page 1 here that pretty much hit the nail on the head. Read them instead of the book. *Looking at page 1 reviews, others mention that Dr. Drew with high school senior Kate and protagonist Penn with hig From BookList : Call this one a well-written misfire. Oh, so true. I don't think I can even list all the reasons I dislike this book. So, I'll list only two: characters and plot. Pretty much sums it up for me. (I have to add that the conclusion ... no, just no.) Plenty of one and two star reviews on page 1 here that pretty much hit the nail on the head. Read them instead of the book. *Looking at page 1 reviews, others mention that Dr. Drew with high school senior Kate and protagonist Penn with high school senior Mia fall into sketchy territory. However, no one mentions what unrealistic characters these girls are. Take Kate: gorgeous blonde, sexually precocious and likes the kinky, valedictorian, cheerleader, state champion - two sports, meets up with Dr. Drew after 11 p.m each night for sex, heading to Harvard in the fall. So maybe she's that rare wonder girl. But no, Mia is a gorgeous brunette, salutatorian, head cheerleader and maybe homecoming queen (less sure about that one - could have been Kate but whatever), babysits till all hours (maybe she studies then?), and heading to Brown in the fall. Each girl moves on the father of the child she babysits. Now understand that neither Kate nor Mia make that move out of anything but love for these middle-age fathers. I can only suspend belief so far. ...more Natchez, MS is really a small town. Everybody knows everyone. So, when Kate Townsend, Queen of the small private school where Penn Cage attended, is killed, the whole town starts looking over its shoulder. And, when it becomes apparent Drew Elliot, a highly-esteemed doctor and Penn's best fried knows far too much about Kate, he becomes the prime suspect. Teenagers in Natchez, like teens around the world, are not as innocent as their parents were. And teens at St. Stephen's know way too much abou Natchez, MS is really a small town. Everybody knows everyone. So, when Kate Townsend, Queen of the small private school where Penn Cage attended, is killed, the whole town starts looking over its shoulder. And, when it becomes apparent Drew Elliot, a highly-esteemed doctor and Penn's best fried knows far too much about Kate, he becomes the prime suspect. Teenagers in Natchez, like teens around the world, are not as innocent as their parents were. And teens at St. Stephen's know way too much about sex and drugs. When Penn discovers Drew was having an affair with Kate, he is stunned, but knows Drew could not have killed her. But the power-brokers in Natchez want a swift conviction, especially the black DA who bears a strong animus against Penn from a previous case. Shad Jackson also sees Drew's conviction as his steppingstone to the mayoral seat. Penn wants only to save his friend and rescue Natchez from its decline. Interesting legal thriller with lots of twists and turns, intelligent plotting and characters. ...more A page-turner that I put down halfway through because I felt like I needed a shower every time I read some more. The descriptions of the 40 something doctor having sex with a 17 year old turned my stomach, as did the vague rationalizations by the protagonist. Yuck. Turning Angel was a superb follow up to The Quiet Game, the first book in the Penn Cage series, which had me turning pages at a fever pitch to unravel the complex and riveting plot. It kept me guessing what would happen all the way through, and the outcome was a surprise, to say the least. Greg Iles has a profound mastery of the language that I find second to none. This story is set five years after the events of The Quiet Game. Once again, Penn Cage finds himself embroiled in a mind-bending mur Turning Angel was a superb follow up to The Quiet Game, the first book in the Penn Cage series, which had me turning pages at a fever pitch to unravel the complex and riveting plot. It kept me guessing what would happen all the way through, and the outcome was a surprise, to say the least. Greg Iles has a profound mastery of the language that I find second to none. This story is set five years after the events of The Quiet Game. Once again, Penn Cage finds himself embroiled in a mind-bending murder case where nothing is ever quite what it seems. A local high school beauty is found murdered and all signs point to the married man she was having an affair with as the killer. Naturally, this guy is a well-respected local doctor and a childhood friend of Cage. When the crap hits the fan, the doctor calls on the expertise of his friend to represent him in the case. Things spiral rapidly out of control from there. Believe me, there is much more to what seems like a pretty simple murder mystery going on here. The city of Natchez and its inhabitants are brought to vivid life by the sharp narrative and the writing is so strong, you come away feeling like these are the people you grew up with in your own hometown. Besides the rich characterizations and precise and efficient dialogue, there are action scenes that are well thought out and perfectly situated in the story, quickly paced and never forced, and some totally crazy twists that I, for one, never saw coming. Highly recommended. I have read several of Greg's books and haven't encountered a single one deserving anything less than the highest rating possible. Excellent author. Check it out. ...more This was the author's 2nd book to feature prosecutor turned writer Penn Cage. After successfully solving a 30 year old murder in the previous book Penn has decided to remain in Natchez to raise his daughter there, after all that's where he grew up and he didn't turn out so bad. He even serves on the school board of his old school, where Annie also now attends. Another member of the board is his friend from childhood, who also happens to be a successful Doctor. Then the school's star pupil turns This was the author's 2nd book to feature prosecutor turned writer Penn Cage. After successfully solving a 30 year old murder in the previous book Penn has decided to remain in Natchez to raise his daughter there, after all that's where he grew up and he didn't turn out so bad. He even serves on the school board of his old school, where Annie also now attends. Another member of the board is his friend from childhood, who also happens to be a successful Doctor. Then the school's star pupil turns up dead, and various rumours and accusations are levelled at Penn's friend, but what can Penn do when asked to help? This was a 'whodunnit' of the highest order, and I was constantly having to rethink my list of suspects with each page I turned. As with the previous book there is a certain amount of racial tension, partly due to the dealings Cage had with the man who is now the DA in Natchez. There is also the background of small town politics being played out, not to mention bigotry, drug abuse and disruptions to Natchez's normal quieter life. An excellent book which really gripped my imagination, and a worthy follow up to 'The Quiet Game' ...more As a murder mystery this novel does keep you reading till the end. But that said, I did have problems with the adult men in positions of authority and respect being sexually involved with teenaged girls. This was very disturbing to me. The doctor, the high school coach and Penn as well came across as pretty sleazy and immoral, so I didn't like or care about these characters. Also, I didn't like that the author portrays the high school girls as over sexed nymphomaniacs. How demeaning and disrespe As a murder mystery this novel does keep you reading till the end. But that said, I did have problems with the adult men in positions of authority and respect being sexually involved with teenaged girls. This was very disturbing to me. The doctor, the high school coach and Penn as well came across as pretty sleazy and immoral, so I didn't like or care about these characters. Also, I didn't like that the author portrays the high school girls as over sexed nymphomaniacs. How demeaning and disrespectful to young girls. And, Penn Cage involving his babysitter in the investigation, allowing her to make dangerous decisions and deferring to her opinions didn't seem realistic either. This has been the only Greg Iles novel I have read and probably won't be reading any of his other books. I wasn't that impressed with this one. ...more Currently Reading I read this book on CD on my trip from Virginia to Florida. It kept my interest, but I am increasingly distressed over the portrayal of supposedly intelligent, successful men who are pillars of the community falling hopelessly in love with high school girls who are beautiful, intelligent, amoral and so sexually sophisticated that they make hookers look like librarians. Real people just don't act this way unless they are deeply flawed and that is usually apparent by their lifestyle. In reality, t I read this book on CD on my trip from Virginia to Florida. It kept my interest, but I am increasingly distressed over the portrayal of supposedly intelligent, successful men who are pillars of the community falling hopelessly in love with high school girls who are beautiful, intelligent, amoral and so sexually sophisticated that they make hookers look like librarians. Real people just don't act this way unless they are deeply flawed and that is usually apparent by their lifestyle. In reality, this is child abuse and honorable men don't engage in it. If, in truth, there is the rare man who has all his marbles and falls in love with a teenager, his love will keep him from taking advantage of her, and will allow her to grow up. There is just the hint of this in the character of Penn Cage, but it is far too subtle. Equally, high school girls who have experienced all that the girls in this book have are not generally the kind of girls that make for long-term relationships. This seems more like a male fantasy. With that said, the book is still interesting and as a flight of fancy, it will keep the reader guessing how the book can possibly end with anything that makes sense. ...more A young lady turns up dead in Natchez, Mississippi and the town secrets are about to tear the place apart. A very fast paced page turner that ends each chapter with a teasing glance at things to come. This seems to hook the reader and pull you into reading just one mere chapter. Until I found myself losing sleep because I could not put the book down. A very good mystery that moves at a great pace. ************* Personal Note: I just had to do this. I read some very unfavorable reviews on this boo A young lady turns up dead in Natchez, Mississippi and the town secrets are about to tear the place apart. A very fast paced page turner that ends each chapter with a teasing glance at things to come. This seems to hook the reader and pull you into reading just one mere chapter. Until I found myself losing sleep because I could not put the book down. A very good mystery that moves at a great pace. ************* Personal Note: I just had to do this. I read some very unfavorable reviews on this book and I just thought that some of those folks may have fallen off the prude ship lollipop. This book, published in 2005, does involve a lot of sex, drugs and murder centered around a high school setting. It is now 2011 and all of this stuff is currently happening in our schools today. Our high schools. Junior high schools. And even our elementary schools! This is not something we can just bury our heads in the sand and say is not happening. Pay very careful attention to what your children are doing and give them all of the love that they need. And don't shoot the messenger. Greg Iles is a very talented writer that has brought a very sensitive issue to print. And I feel that he has done a fine job. Thank you. Now I will get off my soapbox and return to my reading. ...more I sincerely hope this is entirely fiction. Parents of teenaged girls, be warned: this book will read more like horror to you. As far as the investigative side goes, I'd call this a 4-star book. There were plenty of twists, discoveries, and danger for the lead character(s). The characters, too, were interesting, with realistic problems, fears, worries, temptations, friendships, marriages. (view spoiler) [(All except Mia, who seemed just too good to be true - I kept waiting to find her flaw.) (hide I sincerely hope this is entirely fiction. Parents of teenaged girls, be warned: this book will read more like horror to you. As far as the investigative side goes, I'd call this a 4-star book. There were plenty of twists, discoveries, and danger for the lead character(s). The characters, too, were interesting, with realistic problems, fears, worries, temptations, friendships, marriages. (view spoiler) [(All except Mia, who seemed just too good to be true - I kept waiting to find her flaw.) (hide spoiler) ] While I don't agree with some of the plot premise, Penn made it understandable (from a theoretical basis), and I applaud the author for approaching such a tricky topic. (view spoiler) [And for making Penn really fight the temptation. I'm glad he didn't give in, otherwise this would diverge into a bad romance novel. (hide spoiler) ] If I'd known how much emphasis there would be on many types of sex, most of it by/with teenagers in high school, I wouldn't have picked it up. There's a lot of casual drug use too. If you imagine this going on in your local high school, you'd end up wondering how any of them graduated without being arrested or with STDs and/or pregnancy. ...more This was a waste of time, for the most part. I have to admit that I was originally captivated by the first few chapters but as I read further and realized how unrealistic the characters were, I grew increasingly skeptical of the book and its message. I don't think it's realistic to take a disturbing adult male who is guilty of sexual battery and then immerse him back into society like the crimes he committed were excusable. I know we are a forgiving society but middle-aged men forging sexual rela This was a waste of time, for the most part. I have to admit that I was originally captivated by the first few chapters but as I read further and realized how unrealistic the characters were, I grew increasingly skeptical of the book and its message. I don't think it's realistic to take a disturbing adult male who is guilty of sexual battery and then immerse him back into society like the crimes he committed were excusable. I know we are a forgiving society but middle-aged men forging sexual relationships with high school girls is beyond immoral, it is reprehensible and disgusting. Iles creation of characters who excuse their immoral relationships with teenage girls is both sick and twisted. Even if a man in an authority position is attracted to a juvenile, he should never act on his impulses and the creation of characters who do just that is disturbing. There wasn't a single character in this story with whom I could identify. I would not recommend this book to anyone, especially those who are easily disturbed by callous and unconscionable acts. ...more While this was my first book with this author (listened to it on an audiobook and thought the reader did a fabulous job), I found the beginning of it good and had high hopes for a great on-the-road \"read\". After a while, I did find the story line of crazy sex-crazed teenage females (who know too much, and practice everything they know), to be a bit much. Am quite happy that I hadn't listened to this book while raising 2 teenage daughters....! It was hard to like any of the characters, except Annie While this was my first book with this author (listened to it on an audiobook and thought the reader did a fabulous job), I found the beginning of it good and had high hopes for a great on-the-road \"read\". After a while, I did find the story line of crazy sex-crazed teenage females (who know too much, and practice everything they know), to be a bit much. Am quite happy that I hadn't listened to this book while raising 2 teenage daughters....! It was hard to like any of the characters, except Annie, the 9 year old daughter. It did keep us entertained'ish through a 24 hour road trip, however, it did not tempt me to give this author another try on our next 24 hours on the road! ...more There are so many unlikeable and unethical people in this book, on all sides of the law. It\u2019s an ok mystery, long and complicated. STORY BRIEF: Drew is a medical doctor in his 40s. His wife is addicted to prescription pills. He falls in love with their babysitter Kate who is 17. They have frequent sex. Kate asks Drew to meet her. When he arrives he finds her dead, strangled, and raped. Drew moves the body. A blackmailer calls Drew wanting money. Drew is arrested for the murder of Kate. Drew\u2019s long There are so many unlikeable and unethical people in this book, on all sides of the law. It\u2019s an ok mystery, long and complicated. STORY BRIEF: Drew is a medical doctor in his 40s. His wife is addicted to prescription pills. He falls in love with their babysitter Kate who is 17. They have frequent sex. Kate asks Drew to meet her. When he arrives he finds her dead, strangled, and raped. Drew moves the body. A blackmailer calls Drew wanting money. Drew is arrested for the murder of Kate. Drew\u2019s longtime friend Penn investigates to find evidence to help Drew. This is book 2 in the Penn Cage series. Penn was a district attorney for about fifteen years. Now he writes bestsellers based on crimes he\u2019s seen. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: Like his first book, this is an in-depth, complicated, well developed plot. It kept my interest. It\u2019s an ok way to pass time. But I can\u2019t say I \u201creally liked it,\u201d which is my definition for 4 stars. I didn\u2019t find myself saying wow, or being pulled in so much that I didn\u2019t want to stop reading. Yes there was one time I didn\u2019t want to stop because I worried about how Penn would get out of a situation. But for most of the book I wasn\u2019t as emotionally engaged as I would have liked. Maybe because I wasn\u2019t drawn enough to Penn. I was more drawn in to some of Michael Connelly\u2019s lead characters (another author). There are so many bad things going on here, that I needed something more special about the lead characters to provide positives. With Drew\u2019s actions I kept thinking \u201cThat is so dumb. Why did you do that?\u201d He did a number of stupid/reckless things. Penn\u2019s good instincts plus luck allowed him to uncover a lot of evidence. But he wasn\u2019t cautious enough which caused him to lose evidence and to be put in harm\u2019s way more than once. The subject matter includes a lot of sex among teens. There is a lot of explicit talk about oral and anal sex. There is a bad guy who tortures people in ways I won\u2019t repeat here. Those thoughts were hard to get out of my mind when I wanted to sleep. In one scene we hear about terrible rapes and other things the Serbs did to the Croatians. Race relations and corrupt politicians are also part of this book. The author used a phrase I liked in both books 1 and 2. \u201cThe total tonnage of what we don\u2019t know would sink an ocean liner.\u201d NARRATOR: I had problems with the narrator Dick Hill. He went out of his way to use different voices for the various characters which can be good, but I did not like the following. 1. He overacted when he did Marco\u2019s voice, reminding me of a cartoon character grinning and laughing with arrogance as he says bad things. Too loud, too laughing, too fake smiling pretending things are funny. 2. Dick would sniff before speaking a number of times. I doubt those sniffs were written into the work. I assume those were actor enhancements, but they felt too actorish. 3. Several female voices sounded too whiny. 4. But my biggest complaint was the southern accent for most of the characters. I\u2019m sorry but I prefer generic TV anchor-type speech. I know this was set in the south, but hearing a very long book done with this \u201cparticular accent\u201d wasn\u2019t as fun. Dick did excellent narration for some of the Michael Connelly books set in California. He did not use a southern accent for those. Maybe a different person doing a southern accent would be better. I don\u2019t know. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 17 hrs and 37 mins. Swearing language: strong, but rarely used. Sexual content: a lot of explicit content but mostly told after the fact rather than shown, but there were two specific scenes shown. Setting: 2003 Natchez, Mississippi, area. Copyright: 2005. Genre: mystery suspense. Ending: Reasonably happy for the good guys. OTHER BOOKS: I gave 3 \u00bd stars to the Penn Cage book #1 \u201cThe Quiet Game.\u201d ...more I really wanted to enjoy this book seeing how much I liked The Quiet Game , but my discomfort for it steadily increased the further I read. Iles kept repeating the ideology that girls today aren't the same as back then, thus trying to persuade the reader to have sympathy for 40-year-old Drew's relationship with 17-year-old Kate. Nowhere did the author discuss how boys today aren't the same either (isn't it some type of rite of passage for boys nowadays to sexually assault and/or harass at least o I really wanted to enjoy this book seeing how much I liked The Quiet Game , but my discomfort for it steadily increased the further I read. Iles kept repeating the ideology that girls today aren't the same as back then, thus trying to persuade the reader to have sympathy for 40-year-old Drew's relationship with 17-year-old Kate. Nowhere did the author discuss how boys today aren't the same either (isn't it some type of rite of passage for boys nowadays to sexually assault and/or harass at least one girl before graduating high school?), or the psychological concept of child grooming. This type of \"but they were asking for it\" mentality is very dangerous regardless of gender, so I was disappointed that Iles didn't dispute it in his novel. He even went so far as to explicitly mention again the ten year age difference between Penn and his girlfriend Caitlin, as if that was the same as Drew and Kate. I guess the age difference between two adults vs. a child and an adult is really all the same when you look it, if you're mentally inclined that way. I read Turning Angel expecting Iles to finally reveal at the end what we as adults should understand in hindsight, that seventeen- and eighteen-year-old children aren't mature enough to understand the world just because they have sex and watch porn. Instead I got Mary Kay Letourneau's personal diary on why it was true love between her and Villi Fualaau because he wasn't like the other thirteen-year-olds. Tf. ...more This is the second installment of the Penn Cage thrillers by Iles, and as with the first I found it to be a page turner. Set in his hometown of Natchez, Mississippi Cage gets involved in defending a childhood friend accused of a brutal murder. His investigation of the events leads him into the underbelly of the local high school and the seedy side of the Natchez drug culture. Cage has to face off against local drug dealers, Asian gangs, uncooperative law enforcement, and a District Attorney with This is the second installment of the Penn Cage thrillers by Iles, and as with the first I found it to be a page turner. Set in his hometown of Natchez, Mississippi Cage gets involved in defending a childhood friend accused of a brutal murder. His investigation of the events leads him into the underbelly of the local high school and the seedy side of the Natchez drug culture. Cage has to face off against local drug dealers, Asian gangs, uncooperative law enforcement, and a District Attorney with bad motives. There are the usual twists and turns leading to a satisfying conclusion. That said, there are some parts of this book that made me cringe, mostly revolving around the heavy emphasis on creepy sexual tension between 40-something dudes and their 17 and 18-year old babysitters. The author made this sound like normal and understandable stuff. Ugh. Also, how come all of the bad people are pretty much the non-Anglo, non-Southern characters? But if you look past these things (hard to do), this is an interesting and fast read. It made me think I\u2019ll probably read the next Penn Cage book, and I guess that\u2019s what it\u2019s supposed to do. ...more", "Title": "Turning Angel"},
