{"Comments": "So wonderful, it hurts. This series on audiobook is TO DIE FOR! It keeps getting better and better, and I'm hooked beyond hope. I love you, <---C>Harry Dresden</---C>, and I love <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> for his brilliant mind. If the charge is writing one of the best Harry Dresden novels yet, then Jim Butcher has just been <+++>Proven Guilty</+++> ! As a practicing wizard, Harry Dresden has always been troubled by the methods of his bosses in the White Council. But since becoming a Warden and witnessing the Council's methods firsthand...now he's outright disgusted by them! When someone is caught practicing black magic,<---M> rather then considering rehabilitation for the practitioner</---M>, the Council prefers to simply cut the dark wizard of If the charge is writing one of the best Harry Dresden novels yet, then Jim Butcher has just been <+++>Proven Guilty</+++> ! As a practicing wizard, Harry Dresden has always been troubled by the methods of his bosses in the White Council. But since becoming a Warden and witnessing the Council's methods firsthand...now he's outright disgusted by them! When someone is caught practicing black magic, rather then considering rehabilitation for the practitioner, the Council prefers to simply cut the dark wizard off at the knees (<---B>or more accurately, the head</---B>)! So when Harry is tipped off that someone is utilizing black magic in Chicago, he hopes to find the practitioner before the Council does. However, it wouldn't be a day in the life of Harry Dresden if there weren't at least five crises going on at once! In addition to locating the spellcaster, Harry has to contend with an ongoing battle between the wizards and the vampires, movie monsters that have somehow come to life and are attacking citizens, the daughter of an old friend who is in trouble with the law, and fairies with the power to tear the world apart who are on the brink of war! So now Harry has to save the world from the bad guys, as well as save the bad guys from the good guys. Oh, and if he could survive the whole affair, that would be nice, too! I've always had somewhat conflicting feelings towards the Harry Dresden series. While, personally I find the series a lot of fun, whenever I'm talking to someone with more sophisticated tastes than me (in other words, at least 98% of the planet) , I feel the need to defend my love of the books! I'll find myself saying things like, \"Yeah, the FBI agent pulling a gun on Murphy over a snide remark was a bit much, but...\" , or, \"yeah, I know the books feature a greatest-hits cast of supernatural creatures from other books, but...\" So I was ecstatic to read this book and find that Jim Butcher has finally done it...he's finally written a book with enough depth and complexity that I no longer feel the need to defend my enjoyment of his work. In fact, there were three major categories in which Butcher displayed a more mature method of storytelling... Deeper characters One character who showed a lot of character growth this time around was Harry Dresden himself. In past books, his wise-cracking could be funny, but it also often took the place of any real characterization, to the point where Harry could come across as a one-dimensional wise-ass whose constant one-liners eventually evoked more eye-rolls than chuckles... Dresden has gotten this reaction so many times, he was 35 years old before he realized that pupils are usually found in the CENTER of an eye! However, this time around, Harry is more conflicted. His horror at the White Council's ruthless methods. His desire to reconcile the Carpenter family with their rebellious daughter. His temptation to accept the fallen angel Lasciel's offer of more power. Harry has become a much more rounded character at this stage in the game, and he's not the only one. In the past, the Carpenter's came across as almost cartoonish with their perfect life, with family matriarch Charity seemingly distrusting Harry for no further reason than to provide some comic relief with her snarky comments towards him. However, now we're given a much clearer glimpse into the Carpenters' lives, and they become far more sympathetic because of it (particularly the formerly-unlikable Charity). This time around, I wasn't just entertained by Dresden and his cast of characters...I truly cared about them! Deeper story Look, I'll be the first to admit that, while I found the earlier books very entertaining, the actual plots were often as thin as the paper they were typed on.<---F> \"Fool Moon\" was about pissed-off werewolves</---F>...\"Grave Peril\" was about pissed-off ghosts...\"Summer Knight\" was about pissed-off fairies (I'll stop now, something tells me you've picked up on the pattern) . However, by this stage in the game, the books are now weaving together many different plot threads at once. If this were one of the earlier books, chances are the black magic and the conjured-up movie monsters would have made up the entirety of the novel. However, in addition, we get political battles between the wizards, deeper ramifications of the wizards' war with the vampires, and the presence of the fairies, where even the ones who are on Harry's side come across as devious and untrustworthy. At first. I was afraid the fairies were just being thrown into the mix, but Butcher managed to make them an integral part of the story. And I've always appreciated how Butcher's rendition of fairies is so much more sinister than the kindly fairy-godmothers that fairies are often depicted as...particularly recurring Dresden nemesis Queen Mab... I can't imagine why this interpretation of fairies never made it into the Disney movies... Along with a larger story, more complex themes are explored as well. I loved how the lines between \"good\" and \"evil\" were much more blurry, and after being asked to wonder \"will they or won't they\" about Dresden and Murphy for seven books, I was pleased to see how the tension between them was actually addressed in a more mature fashion than I would have previously expected. Of course, Butcher understands that people don't usually check out his books strictly for some weighty philosophical struggles, which brings us to... Deeper action In the past, I've referred to the Dresden books as \"fun\", but this time around, one of the first adjectives that springs to mind is \"exciting\"! Butcher outdid himself with the fight sequences, particularly in a duel between Harry and a movie monster known as the Scarecrow, where the action is so beautifully depicted, it channeled the writing abilities of R.A. Salvatore himself! I've always considered Salvatore the greatest at describing fight scenes, but if Butcher can keep this up, he'll definitely be holding the silver medal next to Salvatore's gold. Other fight sequences (particularly the big showdown towards the end) also feature raised stakes and more creative spellcasting, making this an adventure I didn't just read about, I actually felt ! So by giving us a larger story with more complex concepts and fleshed-out characters, Butcher manages to proved his maturation (and downright improvement) as a writer! The previous Dresden novels were good books, but added depth makes this one a good story as well! Okay...maybe this book isn't really THAT deep, but it sure feels that way when you compare it to Fool Moon ! ...more [4.5 Stars] Amazing start, even-more-amazing finish, but it definitely got dull in the middle so I couldn't give it a full 5 stars. Well, well, well. My, my, my. This book illustrates perfectly why I'm safe from being a die hard fan of any author. I don't have a shred of loyalty towards my favorite authors, and I wear that attitude like a badge of honor. Most of the Dresden books I've read so far have scored well. Because of that, I believe that Jim Butcher doesn't need to punch above his weight to write a damn good book. He is frighteningly talented. So what happened here? I'm not alone in finding Proven Guilty a mediocre Well, well, well. My, my, my. This book illustrates perfectly why I'm safe from being a die hard fan of any author. I don't have a shred of loyalty towards my favorite authors, and I wear that attitude like a badge of honor. Most of the Dresden books I've read so far have scored well. Because of that, I believe that Jim Butcher doesn't need to punch above his weight to write a damn good book. He is frighteningly talented. So what happened here? I'm not alone in finding Proven Guilty a mediocre book. The foundation of Jim Butcher's books relies on sentimentality. If the structure of the story is sound and pleasing, the readers ignore the underlying cheesiness of the premise. But if the structure of the story lends itself badly to deconstruction, we are aware of the paucity of logic and intelligence in the writing. The hitherto strength of the series, namely that we are willing to accept that Harry Dresden courts trouble, and gets away with it despite a humongous display of stupidity with gallantry as his cloak, becomes his weakness in this book. Paradoxically, the writer keeps Harry underpowered. Harry escapes from a tight bind in Proven Guilty with resourcefulness, but with no show of power. What messes the balance in the series is that the hero keeps fighting foes who are increasingly dangerous. He should not have survived. Also, when the biggest villain yet is pitted against the hero, the stakes should be high. But curiously, they're not. Also, not to nitpick, but this is the first book where we get to learn nothing new about Dresden. The Dresden Files relies a lot on characterization. We don't ask for it, but us fans have been served with books that ooze chutzpah, sincerity, wholesomeness, and among others,braveness in the face of decay and death. Some of the passages depict human frailty, with us not even at the top of the food chain. The magic of this world is shown to great purpose. In this book, the sincerity sounds faked. The winks and nods have more in common with fan service than with humor. The twists are moribund, and may perhaps be the most embarrassing aspect of book 8. The most pleasing element of Proven Guilty is the exposure of the corrupt intricacy of the White Council - the wizard court. What happens near the end, the case where Harry moonlights as an attorney, feels realistic. Such a tainted organization as the Council would behave the exact way as it has been shown. I hear the next book serially is just as bad as this one, but after that things get better. I'd better get on with it. ...more 6 Super-Quick, New-Year's-Eve-And-I-Have-To-Finish-This-Year's-Reading-Challenge Reasons I Finally Gave A Harry Dresden Novel Five Flippin' Stars 1. Harry eased way the heck up on the two things that always make me roll my eyes in Dresden File novels: the obligatory \"People don't believe in the supernatural these days\" speech (yeah, that happened), and the \"Women are different from men and I'm a way nice guy for being extra-protective of women\" scene. 2. I was genuinely spooked by one scene, and t 6 Super-Quick, New-Year's-Eve-And-I-Have-To-Finish-This-Year's-Reading-Challenge Reasons I Finally Gave A Harry Dresden Novel Five Flippin' Stars 1. Harry eased way the heck up on the two things that always make me roll my eyes in Dresden File novels: the obligatory \"People don't believe in the supernatural these days\" speech (yeah, that happened), and the \"Women are different from men and I'm a way nice guy for being extra-protective of women\" scene. 2. I was genuinely spooked by one scene, and these books have never given me the chills before. 3. I said, \"Whoa, I did NOT see that coming\" at least twice for reasons of awesome. 4. Outstanding, borderline-egregious but still hy-larious use of movie quotes. 5. Terrific character development. 6. Expert placement of numerous Chekhov's guns (painted to blend into the scenery). Let's hope this trend keeps up, shall we? And happy New Year! ...more Jim Butcher is a creep. And not the cool kind of creep like Bukowski that you romanticize, but like Ezra from 'Pretty Little Liars' kind of creep. Seriously, Butcher, I'm not putting this one on Harry. The last few pages of this book made my skin crawl. Sexualizing an underage character and Harry blatantly lusting after her and beating himself up over it and trying to moralize it is just... awful. But like I said, this isn't Harry. This is some weird thing Jim Butcher has going on in his head. W Jim Butcher is a creep. And not the cool kind of creep like Bukowski that you romanticize, but like Ezra from 'Pretty Little Liars' kind of creep. Seriously, Butcher, I'm not putting this one on Harry. The last few pages of this book made my skin crawl. Sexualizing an underage character and Harry blatantly lusting after her and beating himself up over it and trying to moralize it is just... awful. But like I said, this isn't Harry. This is some weird thing Jim Butcher has going on in his head. Was he substitute teaching while writing this one? I mean, he talks about her body, and piercings that you 'can't see' and I wondered which one of his friends' daughters he is lusting after in real life. Aside from that, this book is mostly just an interlude. It's a way for Butcher to get from one book to another and introduce his concubine, Molly. There's really nothing going on iin this book that alters the Dresden universe, and really, this book can just be skipped entirely. I mean, Butcher starts to repeat himself even more than ever. Not just plot points of other books, but full sentences, sentiments and other diatribes. On top of that, I don't think Butcher has ever actually seen another human being. Or rather, he's never payed attention to another person's body language. For some reason, he's addicted to writiing that his characters 'changed their stance' while in the middle of conversations. What? Are we haviing an argument in a dojo? No one, and I mean, no one, except a cop who's about to pull his weapon, changes their stance while having a general Q&A/coonversation. People stiffen, avert their eyes, relax their posture, put their weight on one hip, get in your face, etc, but 'changing stances' isn't something that happens. I don't know why he's so fond of saying that so often, but it is just such an irritant. Also, don't say something is 'almost -blank-'. An 'almost silver light'. Pick what it is and say it. Simple. Oh, and while I'm on it, don't say everyone is a '-blank- in their own right'. What does that even mean? Was your word count low? Did your editor take a vacation? I just don't get it. The last Dresden book I'll ever read. The end. ...more I love Harry Dresden and I love this series but this book felt like a bit of a filler. It didn't seem to move the overall story along very much and nothing new about Harry himself was revealed. The war against the Red Court of vampires and the White Council of wizards is still raging but it's mostly happening in the background and Harry is only peripherally involved. Instead Harry, now a Warden, is involved in tracking down whoever is using black magic to terrify and hurt people attending a horr I love Harry Dresden and I love this series but this book felt like a bit of a filler. It didn't seem to move the overall story along very much and nothing new about Harry himself was revealed. The war against the Red Court of vampires and the White Council of wizards is still raging but it's mostly happening in the background and Harry is only peripherally involved. Instead Harry, now a Warden, is involved in tracking down whoever is using black magic to terrify and hurt people attending a horror movie convention. As usual Harry overtaxes his powers and manages to overthrow several nasty supernatural baddies while getting hurt several times in the process. A new character emerges who may play an important role in Harry's life and there are some hints that the bizarre supernatural events of the past few books are part of some grander plan and that there may be a traitor in the White Council. Maybe once I read further into the series, this episode will take on more significance in the overall master plot. Still a good read for me in terms of fun and some great witty dialogue from Harry (for example \"I leaned closer and gave her the look I usually save for rampaging demons and those survey people at malls.\" ) ...more Another great edition in this series. I'm terrible at writing reviews of in-progress series books, and I think I'm running out of ways to say that I love Harry Dresden, because I just finished this book and I'm completely at a loss as to what the heck to say about it. Except that I love Harry Dresden. But we knew that, didn't we? I did really enjoy coming back to Harry's world, and despite the 2 1/2 month gap between finishing Dead Beat and starting Proven Guilty, I picked up right where I left Another great edition in this series. I'm terrible at writing reviews of in-progress series books, and I think I'm running out of ways to say that I love Harry Dresden, because I just finished this book and I'm completely at a loss as to what the heck to say about it. Except that I love Harry Dresden. But we knew that, didn't we? I did really enjoy coming back to Harry's world, and despite the 2 1/2 month gap between finishing Dead Beat and starting Proven Guilty, I picked up right where I left off without any trouble. I like the development of the characters, especially Charity (who, I admit, was really starting to grate on my nerves in the last few books). Now her attitude makes a lot more sense, and I can understand and... well, understand it. Thomas is quickly becoming one of my favorite characters too. I love his unobtrusive strength and steadfast loyalty to Harry. I'm really enjoying seeing them test the grounds and borders of their relationship with each other, though, being men, it's a little frustrating too. The plot in this one was a bit all over the place, as usual, but it came together and then some. Things are starting to really pick up steam in the greater supernatural world, and there's mischief afoot. I really cannot wait to see where the story goes next. ...more Just a whole lot of fun, and though not quite as good as the one before it, still pushing the series forward into some interesting new territory. Can't wait to see how the consequences of what happened in this one effects what comes next. Sometimes I get tired of being the guy who is supposed to deal with un-deal-withable situations. (I just found another reason I like Harry - his penchant for making up his own words. That's totally my thing! I find that adding an -ness and -ish to words that shouldn't have them is helpful.) Anyway.... In this exciting episode, Harry is assigned to find out information from the Fae courts, who is practicing black magic, and catch the person or thing responsible for sending out creepy monsters th Sometimes I get tired of being the guy who is supposed to deal with un-deal-withable situations. (I just found another reason I like Harry - his penchant for making up his own words. That's totally my thing! I find that adding an -ness and -ish to words that shouldn't have them is helpful.) Anyway.... In this exciting episode, Harry is assigned to find out information from the Fae courts, who is practicing black magic, and catch the person or thing responsible for sending out creepy monsters that look like horror movie characters. Cake! Oh, and by the way, his bff's teenage daughter has come to him for help, his brother is acting weird and has moved out, and that demon-stuck-in-a-coin thing is taunting him in his mind. Maybe not cake - more like mud-pie? Harry's juggling a lot of dangerous stuff! Okay, Harry, I'm just going to add in a puppy and a Ming vase for you to juggle along with those items. You've totally got this.. There is a lot of Murphy in this book, which is awesome because she is a total badass! She can take down any guy and make them cry like a little bitch. I love her so much! But, she has also loosened up with Harry and jokes around with him. They have a good friendship. \"What? Am I supposed to be a wizard now?\" I grinned. \"Just a savvy cop chick, Murph.\" \"Cop chick?\" she asked, menace in her voice. \"Sorry,\" I said. \" Police chick.\" She grunted. \"That's better.\" I still wish that they would get together and have a relationship, but it doesn't seem like that's going to happen. She has Harry very clearly in the friend zone. Harry has no game. Even if Thomas gave him a clear play book, he would fumble and still end up in the friend zone. ...more this book starts with Harry witnessing an execution of a black magic practitioner. Then he gets a warning about something dangerous is about to happen in Chicago. Harry has to find what is about to happen and stop it. if all that is not enough Molly Carpenter, his friend Michael\u2019s daughter, ask him to come and bail out her friend. And thats where Harry finds himself in knee deep shit. Now these books in the series are at a point where I can not discuss the story without giving spoilers about pre this book starts with Harry witnessing an execution of a black magic practitioner. Then he gets a warning about something dangerous is about to happen in Chicago. Harry has to find what is about to happen and stop it. if all that is not enough Molly Carpenter, his friend Michael\u2019s daughter, ask him to come and bail out her friend. And thats where Harry finds himself in knee deep shit. Now these books in the series are at a point where I can not discuss the story without giving spoilers about previous books. We find some more news about the on going war between Wizard\u2019s Council and Red Court of Vampires. But the events in this book has more to do with the faerie land. As always I love Harry, Thomas, Bob, Murphy and Mouse but Charity, Michael\u2019s wife, steals the limelight here. A fierce mother who went to fight the monsters to save her daughter. this book is also about reconciliations. Charity who is not a big fan of Harry actually learns to trust Harry with her daughter\u2019s life. the troublesome relationship between Charity and Molly is also described beautifully where mother wants to save her life from every danger while daughter thinks her mother don\u2019t understand her. This book is good but I didn\u2019t find it as good as Dead Beat . Though the events in the book points out that next book is going to be one hell of a ride. ...more The eighth novel in Jim Butcher's Dresden Files centers around scary things happening at a horror covention--and no, I don't just mean the con-funk from devotees who don't bathe for several days. Harry is pulled into an investigation of strange monsters attacking people around town, all of it centering at the local horror convention. The setting allows Butcher to lovingly poke fun at fan conventions but also to pay homage to them. Before you know it, Harry's on the track of greater conspiracies The eighth novel in Jim Butcher's Dresden Files centers around scary things happening at a horror covention--and no, I don't just mean the con-funk from devotees who don't bathe for several days. Harry is pulled into an investigation of strange monsters attacking people around town, all of it centering at the local horror convention. The setting allows Butcher to lovingly poke fun at fan conventions but also to pay homage to them. Before you know it, Harry's on the track of greater conspiracies and the situation is a lot more deadly and dangerous than it would at first appear. Or to put it another way--just another day in the life of Harry Dresden. After the previous installment of the Dresden Files proved a bit of a disappoinment (it felt stretched a bit for a larger page count), Jim Butcher returns to form with the longest Dresden Files novels so far and the most densely packed and plotted. But, as always, he keeps the novel and its allusions accessible to new readers while rewarding long time fans of this superbly done series. Add to it Harry's growing suspicions about the war between various supernatural forces, some hints about the past and some shocking implications for the future of the series and you've got one of the best novels in what I consider to be the best currently running fantasy series on the market today. ...more 6/10 This was a disappointing entry after the outstanding last novel, Dead Beat (a series high), where the main plot didn't get its grips into me at all and it was only at the end where things went back to the usual high standards of the series. Don't get me wrong, this was business as usual in the Dresden world; fighting demonic factions, a humorous setting for grizzly murders, sexual tension with Harry and Murphy on the intimacy merry go round, Bob and Mouse for some light relief and heroic acti 6/10 This was a disappointing entry after the outstanding last novel, Dead Beat (a series high), where the main plot didn't get its grips into me at all and it was only at the end where things went back to the usual high standards of the series. Don't get me wrong, this was business as usual in the Dresden world; fighting demonic factions, a humorous setting for grizzly murders, sexual tension with Harry and Murphy on the intimacy merry go round, Bob and Mouse for some light relief and heroic actions, the White council gearing up for fighting on more than one front. But even with al that it just didn't click for me. I definitely think that it is more a case of \"it's not you, it's me\" scenario. There was some intrigue at the end with (view spoiler) [The Black Council and Molly being taken on as Harry's apprentice (hide spoiler) ] being brought into the mix and I definitely feel that this will provide some of the overarching plots for at least the next couple. Maybe when I do a re-read (or potentially listen to them after glowing reviews of James Marsters narration) this will strike the right chord but on this pass it didn't work for me. Here's hope that things get back on track for me in the next outing. If you like this try: \"Guards! Guards!\" By Terry Pratchett ...more The horror convention setting was great fun, and I enjoyed watching Harry adjust to his new role as Warden because doing the right thing, and enforcing the laws of magic aren't always synonymous, and a bit of tough love ensues. Charity opened up some as a character which brought on a few interesting new developments, although whether Molly Carpenter will add any value to this universe is still up in the air. I see potential, but another male Urban Fantasy author whom I'm a fan of attempted somet The horror convention setting was great fun, and I enjoyed watching Harry adjust to his new role as Warden because doing the right thing, and enforcing the laws of magic aren't always synonymous, and a bit of tough love ensues. Charity opened up some as a character which brought on a few interesting new developments, although whether Molly Carpenter will add any value to this universe is still up in the air. I see potential, but another male Urban Fantasy author whom I'm a fan of attempted something similar, and the results were disappointing. It'll all come down to Butcher's plan of attack. Future story line speculation aside, PROVEN GUILTY did this series proud. ...more 5 Stars! I've enjoyed every single Dresden Files book that I've listened to so far. There's so much to be said for the voice of James Marsters continuing to do the voice of Harry. He is my Harry Dresden now, and I don't think reading this series would give me the same feel as the audio has done. Each book gets better and better, and this is my first five star read of the series . The White Council and Harry, while both supposedly batting for the same team, have always butted heads. Harry's unconve 5 Stars! I've enjoyed every single Dresden Files book that I've listened to so far. There's so much to be said for the voice of James Marsters continuing to do the voice of Harry. He is my Harry Dresden now, and I don't think reading this series would give me the same feel as the audio has done. Each book gets better and better, and this is my first five star read of the series . The White Council and Harry, while both supposedly batting for the same team, have always butted heads. Harry's unconventional ways and volatile upbringing make the whole council sort of look askance at him. During the last few books, they have come to some sort of a wary truce. At least, they tend to have stayed out of each other's way. But now that Harry has to take more of an active role in the council, he also has to bear witness to the role that they take in enforcing their own laws of magic...whether he agrees with the verdict and/or punishment or not. The opening scene in this book is pretty brutal, and it really sets the tone for the rest of the story. If you've been missing Michael, Harry's enforcer friend, and his crazy, suspicious wife- well, wait no longer. I have just a teensy mini-crush on Michael, so I was very happy to see him again. Though we get much more of this wife Charity and his daughter Molly than we get of him. In fact, these two ladies almost steal Harry's thunder during this entire story. This mother/daughter duo is surprisingly tough and resourceful. It seems as if Harry is surrounded by capable women. Murphy, whom I desperately want to be involved romantically with Harry, is also a major player in Proven Guilty, though not in the way I want her to be. She, Thomas, Harry, and Charity go on a quest to the realm of faerie's Winter Court to rescue a very important someone from the craziness that is Queen Mab. Talk about a non-stop adventure! This book was amazing! From start to finish, there is constant action...no new major players were introduced, so there was little to no world building or character intro to mess with the flow of things. What I loved was the amount of character development that nearly everyone involved shows. Harry is his usual snarky, wise-ass self but he is finally becoming comfortable with the amount of fear he can generate with just the mention of his name. He is an extremely wanted man...not only because he always seems to thwart the bad guy, but because he can somehow wheedle his way out of any sticky situation...he's such fun to watch!! Wonderful addition to the series! My fascination with Harry and with all of his masses of friends and helpful acquaintances only grows. This series shows no signs of slowing...there are so many possible story arcs, it's unreal!! After eight books, I can usually tell where a series is headed, but not only do I not WANT this one to end, the anticipation is half the fun...I really have no idea where Butcher is headed with this. ...more Executive Summary: While not as good as the previous book, Dead Beat , it's still another enjoyable entry to the series. Audio book: Nothing of particular note in this novel. There weren't any stand out voices/characters worth mentioning. James Marsters does a great job with the audio, and seems really comfortable with the series now. Full Review NOTE: This review contains some (mostly minor) spoilers from previous novels, as it's hard to talk about the later books in the series without proper con Executive Summary: While not as good as the previous book, Dead Beat , it's still another enjoyable entry to the series. Audio book: Nothing of particular note in this novel. There weren't any stand out voices/characters worth mentioning. James Marsters does a great job with the audio, and seems really comfortable with the series now. Full Review NOTE: This review contains some (mostly minor) spoilers from previous novels, as it's hard to talk about the later books in the series without proper context. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Things have been escalating with the war between the White Council and the Red Court. Harry's responsibilities have increased with his new job as regional commander for the Wardens. The number of incidents of young warlocks violating the laws of magic is on the rise. Harry is tasked secretly and separately by two members of the senior council. First his old mentor Ebeneezer wants him to use his contacts among the Fae to determine why despite violations of the Seelie Accord by the Red Court, why the Fae have abstained from entering the war. Secondly the mysterious Gatekeeper has warned Harry that there is Dark Magic about in Chicago once again. And then because Harry's life wasn't complicated enough, Harry receives a call from Molly Carpenter, daughter of his friend, and Fist of God, Micheal. She's in jail, and needs his help. What's Harry to do? He grabs his staff, blasting rod, and his dog Mouse and head off to do battle with the forces of evil and anyone else who gets in his way. While not quite as entertaining as Dead Beat , there are some significant events in this novel that have a significant impact on the books that follow. Full of the usual combination of laugh out loud and eye-rolling one-liners, nasty bad guys and magic battles, makes this another quick and enjoyable read. ...more I loved getting to know Charity better in this episode. She is a badass momma when one of her kids is in danger. Lots of things from previous books are coming together, and ominous things seem to be in the future. In this book, horrific monsters are appearing in Chicago that feed on fear, and of course, that is not the only crisis that Harry needs to deal with. I'm interested to read the next and see what happens - and I'm going to try not to wait so long between books! I'm guessing anyone who's gotten to book 8 of this series is already a hard core Dresden fan and it gets harder to criticize the small stuff. I mean, it's got Harry Dresden in it - and James Marster is the narrator. Nuff said. But compared to the last book this fell a little flat for me. I think part of it is that there is no real antagonist/arch enemy in the plot. Sure, there is a lot of bad stuff happening. There's black magic in town and as a Regional Commander in the Wardens it's Harry's job I'm guessing anyone who's gotten to book 8 of this series is already a hard core Dresden fan and it gets harder to criticize the small stuff. I mean, it's got Harry Dresden in it - and James Marster is the narrator. Nuff said. But compared to the last book this fell a little flat for me. I think part of it is that there is no real antagonist/arch enemy in the plot. Sure, there is a lot of bad stuff happening. There's black magic in town and as a Regional Commander in the Wardens it's Harry's job to hunt down the bad guys. Things heat up when a bunch of Phobophages and Fetches show up at a Horror convention and start making mince meats of peoples bodies and minds. It's a mystery to be solved. And it gets solved...I guess. It's just the mystery, while fun, didn't make a lot of sense in the end (view spoiler) [So there are phobophages that feed on fear at a Horror convention. Harry does a spell to turn the phages onto the summoner - which sends them to Molly Carpenter. Except it turns out she's not the summoner...but someone else in Faerie summoned the phages to kidnap her to lure Harry into Faerie - except, why would Harry's spell then pick out Molly as the summoner and the narrative has the phages responding to Harry's spell to get to Molly - I'm confused (hide spoiler) ] - which didn't really matter because the whole thing was really just a device to get Harry and Co where they needed to be. Okay, now I've got the gripe out of the way I will put my drooling Dresden fan hat back on because there is some good stuff here as well. Firstly, Harry gets to go up against some monsters who wouldn't look out of place in any slasher flick, Fuegoing and Forzaring them back to the Nevernever and beyond with Hell Fire and badassery. We also get a dose of White Council politics as Harry locks horns with the Merlin about the ethics of cutting kids heads off. Granted, they are very naughty kids and have created havoc and death but Hell's Bells ...Kids! And Harry and Murphy get more intimate - get your mind out of the gutter right now, its not like that. Maybe. It's complicated. Harry's investigations also gets him up close and personal with the Carpenters. Something he's been avoiding since touching the Denarian coin and consorting with the fallen angel, Lasciel. Molly Carpenter ends up playing a major role in the plot as she asks Harry to help her on the sly without letting her parents know. The sort of thing that's really going to put Harry on Charity Carpenter's list - of people to kill. I'm looking forward to seeing more of Molly as a character going forward. 3.5 stars ...more I am devouring Jim Butcher's 'Dresden Files' series. These are fun. They are like dessert, worthy of devouring. I love Harry. He is such a great character and he has dog named Mouse, so he gets extra points. I also enjoyed Michael and Charity in this one. I love the balance in the different personalities. They are all so different. Plus, for the reoccurring characters, they seem to be evolving with each book. This book moved at a fast pace. Something was always happening. I would say that the tw I am devouring Jim Butcher's 'Dresden Files' series. These are fun. They are like dessert, worthy of devouring. I love Harry. He is such a great character and he has dog named Mouse, so he gets extra points. I also enjoyed Michael and Charity in this one. I love the balance in the different personalities. They are all so different. Plus, for the reoccurring characters, they seem to be evolving with each book. This book moved at a fast pace. Something was always happening. I would say that the twists and turns were surprising but in actuality, it is all surprising to me. Jim Butcher has done a wonderful job in his world building. I also love the narrator of the audios. I can't imagine anyone else, except James Marsters, doing the narration. ...more Not sure how I feel about the development at the end of this one. Must proceed to book 9 and find out more. First read 30 Apr - 9 May '10. Re-read June-early July '11. Wow, I thought this one was fantastic ! It's a good book by any measure, but I'm especially impressed that the 8th book in a series is this good! Excellent structure, tight plotting, lots of heart and humour and action. I really liked the way Harry dealt with Molly. He's really taking the high road and being responsible. While Molly's situation does mirror his own youthful experiences a bit--as well as putting Harry in the \"Obi-Wan\" positi First read 30 Apr - 9 May '10. Re-read June-early July '11. Wow, I thought this one was fantastic ! It's a good book by any measure, but I'm especially impressed that the 8th book in a series is this good! Excellent structure, tight plotting, lots of heart and humour and action. I really liked the way Harry dealt with Molly. He's really taking the high road and being responsible. While Molly's situation does mirror his own youthful experiences a bit--as well as putting Harry in the \"Obi-Wan\" position--it's an interesting twist on the scenario. I look forward to seeing what happens next. Butcher really assembled a great bunch of familiar characters in this one. It was cool to see Fix and Lily again, as well as Michael and Ebenezer. Harry and Ebenezer's reconcilation was very touching. It was also interesting to see Thomas in the mix with some characters he hasn't really had to interact with before. And what a stunning revelation about Charity! I never saw that coming. She was certainly a useful and formidable addition to the team on the trip into deepest Winter. A thoroughly enjoyable reading experience for me! Later, upon re-reading this: I noticed several incidents of foreshadowing in terms of events that occur in Changes . Impressive. Butcher keeps his ducks in a row. 5 stars for plot, characterisation, heart, and humour. ...more Contains spoilers Another classic Dresden book that I couldn't put down until it was finished. Why only three stars? The book gave me the impression that it foreshadows future events in the next books. I think that this book and the previous one were written to help Dresden get together with his group of friends/relatives/apprentice. After 8 books I'm ready for something major to happen. I hope the plot moves forward more quickly in the next books. I loved the fact that Dresden has an apprentice n Contains spoilers Another classic Dresden book that I couldn't put down until it was finished. Why only three stars? The book gave me the impression that it foreshadows future events in the next books. I think that this book and the previous one were written to help Dresden get together with his group of friends/relatives/apprentice. After 8 books I'm ready for something major to happen. I hope the plot moves forward more quickly in the next books. I loved the fact that Dresden has an apprentice now. I think seeing him as a teacher will be very interesting. I hope I get to read many pages of him teaching and explaining magic. I also liked that he told Carpenter that he picked up the coin. He needs help with that one and it's not a burden he should carry alone. The books have really evolved in the relationship part. I don't thing the Dresden of the first books would have revealed the problem, because he wanted to solve everything himself. Making him asking for help makes him more believable and human. P.S. I love Butcher's sense of humour. ...more I know I've been crushing on the Dresden Files like some tween consumed by Bieber fever, but I gotta say that this series continues to travel the road from freaking fabulous to downright brilliant! Proven Guilty had me at hello. Srsly. Butcher keeps expanding Harry's universe in measured, dazzlingly smart and subtle ways, which allow the reader to ease into this fantastical world like someone shoving Alice aside to step directly through the looking glass. I'm such an admirer of the length and de I know I've been crushing on the Dresden Files like some tween consumed by Bieber fever, but I gotta say that this series continues to travel the road from freaking fabulous to downright brilliant! Proven Guilty had me at hello. Srsly. Butcher keeps expanding Harry's universe in measured, dazzlingly smart and subtle ways, which allow the reader to ease into this fantastical world like someone shoving Alice aside to step directly through the looking glass. I'm such an admirer of the length and depth and width and expansiveness of Butcher's imagination, which, through each successive novel, continues to delight and surprise me. Even more brilliantly, as much as Butcher reveals, he keeps hidden, and subtle nuances are left to tantalize the reader into hoping they'll be answered in the next installment. It makes me wonder if Butcher himself isn't perhaps part Sidhe... ;) ...more The Dresden Files is by far my favorite series by Jim Butcher. This installment was a lot of fun for me. Objectively it is probably only 4 stars and some of the other books are probably stronger, but I really liked this one all the same. I liked seeing Harry act as part of the White Council and I liked that some things that needed resolving got resolved or at least put on a more stable path. Harry Dresden, now a reluctant warden for the White Council, has to find out who is practicing black magic in his town of Chicago. At the same time the Council wants him to talk to the Sidhe regarding their lack of action against the Red vamps. Jim Butcher knows what works. He keeps the stories interesting in each installment and the characters fresh. Harry is a constant throughout as the MC but his supporting cast is switched up a little each time. In Proven Guilty Harry is joined by his brother Harry Dresden, now a reluctant warden for the White Council, has to find out who is practicing black magic in his town of Chicago. At the same time the Council wants him to talk to the Sidhe regarding their lack of action against the Red vamps. Jim Butcher knows what works. He keeps the stories interesting in each installment and the characters fresh. Harry is a constant throughout as the MC but his supporting cast is switched up a little each time. In Proven Guilty Harry is joined by his brother, the White Vamp, Thomas (who has his own problems managing his hunger and keeping a job to pay the bills.) Karrin Murphy is back as the head of SI for Chicago PD. Her conversation with Harry about their sexual tension is one of the best scenes in the book. Charity, Michael's wife, plays her largest role yet. She still gets on my last nerve with her treatment of Harry but we do at least learn more about her reasoning. Michael makes a couple of important appearances (with some foreshadowing that stopped my heart for a second.) Ebenezer continues to show his loyalty to Harry and there is hope that they will finally make peace with each other. And, lastly, Molly - Michael's daughter. Remember her? She is part of the primary storyline here and I imagine an important character going forward. I typically don't enjoy stories that include teenage girls (I was one. I know how horrible we can be.) But, Butcher did a good job of showing a rebellious teenager who is someone you want to pull for. The Fae, both winter and summer, are here in all their crazy glory. And, yes, I do mean crazy. The whole lot of them. What I've realized is that Harry has more friends than he even realizes. With all of those listed above, PG didn't give us any updates on Butters, the wolves and so many more. Butcher has built a world full of interesting characters that we want to know more about. I can see why 15 books (and countless short stories) have been published and there is no end in sight. One thing that I love about the Dresden stories is that Butcher does a great job of showing the gray in life. Very few of the characters are purely good or bad. They all are driven by something they feel strongly about. The black magic storyline was a perfect example. You can have the best of intentions yet do something that has unexpectedly horrible repercussions. That's why our world has rules and consequences for those that don't follow them. Each book continues to be a little bit darker than the one before it. We can feel the story building to something big. I cannot wait. It's not perfect but I am addicted at this point. 5/5 stars. ...more Though not quite as thoroughly riveting as the preceding entry, Dead Beat, this is an entertaining and ultimately important entry in the Dresden Files. More is learned about multiple members of the Carpenter family. A major new character is established. Harry's life changes in more than one way as a result of the circumstances in this story. The mystery that sets things in motion is one of the better ones: A teenage boy is falsely accused of issuing a vicious beating in a restroom where nobody el Though not quite as thoroughly riveting as the preceding entry, Dead Beat, this is an entertaining and ultimately important entry in the Dresden Files. More is learned about multiple members of the Carpenter family. A major new character is established. Harry's life changes in more than one way as a result of the circumstances in this story. The mystery that sets things in motion is one of the better ones: A teenage boy is falsely accused of issuing a vicious beating in a restroom where nobody else could have possibly entered and exited without being seen. As Harry discovers the layers of truth about what is going on, the plot heats up. The setting of SplatterCon, a horror film festival, is an interesting point. I found myself comparing this entry to many other books I've enjoyed by other authors. The addition of Molly Carpenter, her situation and relationship to Harry reminded me of several entries in the Spenser series of the late Robert B Parker, particularly with the youths he meets in Early Autumn and Ceremony. The photophages and how they are used reminds me of one of my all-time favorite authors, Dean Koontz, and how he does something in a similar way in The Door to December and Dragon Tears, especially the former with the equally shocking resolution as to who is behind the supernatural activity. All that said, Butcher takes familiar elements such as these and continues to coming up with refreshingly original stories. As a series, he does what only a few others I've read have been able to do with books this length and that is keep the series not only not repeating a formula, but adding enough characters and life changes for the characters to keep the interest in the next book to come very strong. Officially: 4.5 of 5 stars. ...more This is the best one yet. I have a feeling about where it's going to go with Molly, but it's going to take a while, I'm thinking. I liked the way he sneaked the next bit for the long arc into the conversation at the end. It didn't feel manipulative like it so often can when it's done this way. I also like that Butcher's fae are really difficult to like. They are generally not very nice, even when they're being nice. I like it. Everyone is right, these just get better with every book. MOUSE! 4.5/5 Aww, Molly Carpenter, charming and clueless enters the scene, and Harry Dresden becomes so much more adorable! Now he has a very young and rebellious friend's daughter to deal with and save from trouble.The thing is Harry is not a loner, he is surrounded by more and more people he cares about, and this is exactly what makes him such an engaging and gorgeous character to feel for. Loved this book! Mediocre compared to those before it.", "Title": "Proven Guilty"},
