{"Comments": "I wrote this book, so I'm allowed to love it like my firstborn,<---M> right? :) Thank you</---M>, everyone, for reading and sharing your comments. First off, the story sounds familiar-recent divorcee goes away to recover. Having just signed divorce papers, when she arrives at her great-aunt's place, she gets two dates within about 48 hours of arriving. I don't know if someone who is still shocked by a divorce would jump into dating quite so soon. Second, there were too many characters whose names begin with the letter E.<---F> Emily and Evelyn are alive</---F>. Elliot and Esther are in the diary Emily finds. And at least one of these people is still al First off, the story sounds familiar-recent divorcee goes away to recover. Having just signed divorce papers, when she arrives at her great-aunt's place, she gets two dates within about 48 hours of arriving. I don't know if someone who is still shocked by a divorce would jump into dating quite so soon. Second, there were too many characters whose names begin with the letter E. Emily and Evelyn are alive. Elliot and Esther are in the diary Emily finds. And at least one of these people is still alive and using a different name. Confusing. Third, I kind of guessed the \"secret\" early, and it wasn't believable how many people know and didn't want to tell Emily. For cripes' sake, the old lady was 85 and could have croaked at any minute, and that secret wasn't such a big deal anyway. I got bored halfway through. However, if the author writes another book, I might give it a try. ...more http://anovelreview.blogspot.com/ I am an avid reader. I love to read. I love to read all sorts of genres. I have been asked over the years, \u201cwhat is your favorite book,\u201d well I don\u2019t have one. There are just too many good ones out there. But from now on I have an answer. I will from now on answer, \u201c<+++>The Violets of March</+++> by <---A>Sarah Jio</---A>.\u201d Emily Wilson had it all. Married to a GQ handsome hubby, bestselling author her life was picture perfect. Suddenly, it was all over. Her husband leaves her for anoth http://anovelreview.blogspot.com/ I am an avid reader. I love to read. I love to read all sorts of genres. I have been asked over the years, \u201cwhat is your favorite book,\u201d well I don\u2019t have one. There are just too many good ones out there. But from now on I have an answer. I will from now on answer, \u201c<+++>The Violets of March</+++> by Sarah Jio.\u201d Emily Wilson had it all. Married to a GQ handsome hubby, bestselling author her life was picture perfect. Suddenly, it was all over. Her husband leaves her for another woman and her best-seller writing career is going know where because she has writers block. Where can she go? She decides to go back to one of her favorite places in the world, Bainbridge Island, where she spent her summers growing up visiting her Aunt Bee. There to deal with the loss of her marriage and hopefully to find some inspiration for a new book, what she finds instead is an Island full of secrets and two love interests. Love interest number one is Greg, an old high school boyfriend and the other good looking local artist, Jack. While figuring out her own love life, she stumbles onto an old diary dated from 1943. As Emily begins reading the story of diary, she finds her own life to have parallels to the author, Ester\u2019s, life. Emily begins to realize the sort of love she wants and deserves. Feeling so close to Ester, she realizes she must solve the mystery, but the more Emily learns the more questions arise. I have a very messy house right now, because I could hardly put this book down. I read it in one day and that is not an easy feat in my home. When I read the journal entries (<---B>which are more of a story within a story</---B>) I felt transported to another era. I was completely engaged in the story and lost track of time. The descriptions are very well written. I could smell the salty air and I could feel Emily\u2019s frustration. The entire time I was trying to figure out the puzzle of the story and I could not figure it out. I wanted the mystery solved, but at the same time I didn\u2019t want the story to end. This book has goosebump moments and brought me to tears! I LOVED this book! I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading! This is Jio\u2019s debut novel. I cannot wait to see what she writes next. ...more SPOILERS I am 96% finished with this book (per the Kindle app) and I'm not sureif I can finish. I started skimming the review just below this and absolutely agree with the forst paragraph about jumping into dating. ALL of the characters were so superficial- I never cared for any of them. A HUGE pet peeve of mine is when people fall in love, or find someone amazing, and I don't know why. The writing just felt so rushed and insincere! I never once felt the connection between any of the 'lovers'. We SPOILERS I am 96% finished with this book (per the Kindle app) and I'm not sureif I can finish. I started skimming the review just below this and absolutely agree with the forst paragraph about jumping into dating. ALL of the characters were so superficial- I never cared for any of them. A HUGE pet peeve of mine is when people fall in love, or find someone amazing, and I don't know why. The writing just felt so rushed and insincere! I never once felt the connection between any of the 'lovers'. We all remember our first loves- but my first impression of the whole Greg relationship was that he was just some high school summer crush. I'm actually laughing to myself as I write this, remembering the whole sappy scence where he takes her to the rock where he carved their names. Other issues of annoyance: 1. I find it hard to believe that EVERY SINGLE PERSON but Esther went by nicknames. (I'm laughing and eye rolling again) 2. Every time the author wanted to convery that the person talking was elderly she had them call Emily \"dear\". About a quarter way through the book I was thinking it could be a drinking game, but then I realized that 2 chapters later I would probably be cross eyed. (Might have made for a better book) 4 chapters later, all I could picture every time I read that word was a haggard crone, croking the word out while brushing her hair with a fork. Wasn't Bee supposed to be this vivicious women! 3. If I went weeks without telling my best friend I had terminal cancer and she didn't notice something was up on her own, she's fired. 4. I wanted to barf (yes, I'm very eloquent) every time I heard Emily described as 'beautiful'. That seemed to be this girl's only saving grace. I never found her personality, she was a bad author, and when she finally did write another book she just finished someone elses. She also proved to be quite stupid, reading a book about her grandmother's mistakes, just to make the some ones herself. Pausing to finish book (Once I start I have to finish)... Oh, Jack is an idiot, too. Suddenly their connection makes sense. ...more This book was okay. It was very light and easy to read. It certainly held my interest. I wanted to keep reading to find out the answer to the mystery, and I ended up finishing it in two days. It was neatly plotted, with all the loose ends tied up at the end, and the atmosphere of the island was very well drawn. The book suffered from a flaw that bothers me in a lot of women's literature, though: the main character is essentially passive. Things just happen to her. She's got writer's block, here h This book was okay. It was very light and easy to read. It certainly held my interest. I wanted to keep reading to find out the answer to the mystery, and I ended up finishing it in two days. It was neatly plotted, with all the loose ends tied up at the end, and the atmosphere of the island was very well drawn. The book suffered from a flaw that bothers me in a lot of women's literature, though: the main character is essentially passive. Things just happen to her. She's got writer's block, here husband ditches her, her best friend has to tell her to go away to heal, two handsome men just pop up in her life, a mysterious diary just pops up. Emily has very little agency; stuff just happens. She's pretty blah; apparently the only reason two eligible men fall in love with her is because she's beautiful. Convenient for her, but not very interesting. Uninteresting protagonists are a particular pitfall of this specific sub-genre of women's lit: the modern woman who trips on an old mystery that she must solve. Kate Morton's books are always about this, and The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood has a similar theme. Inevitably, the modern woman is extremely boring and passive compared to the women of the era of The Mystery. If female writers want to be taken seriously, we have to start writing strong, active female characters, instead of characters who are essentially little girls whose fantasies magically come true with little effort on their part (see my review of The Mermaid Chair, which has possibly the most spoiled, whiny female protagonist in modern literature). ...more \u2605\u2605\u2605 The Violets of March is a standalone, women's fiction novel written by Sarah Jio . This novel offers three interweaving storylines: one from present day, a historical story from a 1940's diary, and one that is reference from a novel published in 1930: Years of Grace . All the storylines reflect each other in some way or another and this setup created many characters and plots to keep track of. Although I found this challenging at times, I thought it was worth it in the end. Themes in this book \u2605\u2605\u2605\u00bd The Violets of March is a standalone, women's fiction novel written by Sarah Jio . This novel offers three interweaving storylines: one from present day, a historical story from a 1940's diary, and one that is reference from a novel published in 1930: Years of Grace . All the storylines reflect each other in some way or another and this setup created many characters and plots to keep track of. Although I found this challenging at times, I thought it was worth it in the end. Themes in this book include reconciliation, redemption, and the timelessness of love. While I don't think The Violets of March is Ms. Jio's best, I do think it is a beautiful debut and I would recommend it. Check it out! My favorite quote: \u201cGreat love endures time, heartache, and distance. And even when all seems lost, true love lives on.\u201d Note: I love it when an author shares the inspiration for their work. On Ms. Jio's website, she shares the story of how finding wild wood violets in her yard inspired this book's title. You can read the story by clicking HERE . In an online interview, Ms. Jio also notes the setting of Bainbridge Island is a very significant place to her in her real life. If interested, you can read more about the topic by clicking HERE . ...more Ever since I've discovered the joys of reading self-published works by multiple talented authors on Amazon, it is extremely rare that I purchase a book for more than $7.99. Having just finished \"Blackberry Winter\" by Sarah Jio, I was excited to read more of her novels. At the end of \"Blackberry Winter,\" there were a couple chapters, a sneak preview, of \"Violets of March.\" After reading a bit of it, I decided to venture onto Amazon and was a taken aback by the price - $12.99. Gulp! I hadn't paid Ever since I've discovered the joys of reading self-published works by multiple talented authors on Amazon, it is extremely rare that I purchase a book for more than $7.99. Having just finished \"Blackberry Winter\" by Sarah Jio, I was excited to read more of her novels. At the end of \"Blackberry Winter,\" there were a couple chapters, a sneak preview, of \"Violets of March.\" After reading a bit of it, I decided to venture onto Amazon and was a taken aback by the price - $12.99. Gulp! I hadn't paid that in a long time but I figured I would go for it as I had really enjoyed her other novel and was fond of her writing style. Needless to say, three very short hours later, I was infuriated and wanted my money back. The mysterious character, Esther, revealed herself to be a thoroughly despicable and selfish character. Was I supposed to be happy for the woman who faked her own death because she was suffering from heartbreak, who not only placed an extremely disproportionate guilt trip on her lover and best friend? She was a hot-headed cavewoman, always quick to anger but too immature to search out a resolution. That poor woman who in the 1940s was engaged to what was apparently a very handsome man who had no qualms getting into debt so long as she wore this beautiful engagement ring. Man, what a tough life she had! Apparently, she loved Elliott so much but was so quick to assume the worst of him. Yep, that's real love there. Was I supposed to feel compassion when she showed none to the daughter she had easily left behind, the daughter who grew up immensely insecure of her mother's love for her? I'm sure her daughter will feel loads better after she meets her half-sister who grew up loved by their mom. Yes, this will certainly draw Emily's mom out of the distance she had previously created between her and the island. Her mother loved her enough to leave her so easily. Ridiculous. So Esther went on to visit the world - good for her because she was so stifled before! GTFOH. This book had me until the end as the story miserably attempted to wrap up a really fucked up ending with a nice shiny bow. As for the relationship between Emily and Jack, the falling in love so quickly aspect was unbelievable. This woman just wasted seven years of her life with someone she thought she knew only to discover that he was unfaithful and left her for another. In what world would a woman that experienced that betrayal quickly fall into the arms of someone she just met? Oh, but this was needed to desperately demonstrate parallels between the main character and the grandmother who she coincidentally looks exactly like. Lets throw in the fact that of course Emily and Jack, the grandchildren of the story's ill-fated star crossed lovers, are meant to be. This makes up for everything. Also, this whole charging $12.99 for a story that took so little time to read is abhorrent. Never again. I do not recommend this book on any level. ...more You know how your facebook friends post the most annoying crap and you keep telling yourself you're gonna block them so you don't have to see their fucking pointless updates but you never do because deep down, (even though it's twisted and you hate yourself for it)you like those vapid, poorly written posts because they make you feel superior? That's exactly what this book is like. It's not good. No. It's not. It's badly written chick lit and the main character is a hopeless idiot. But I'll be god You know how your facebook friends post the most annoying crap and you keep telling yourself you're gonna block them so you don't have to see their fucking pointless updates but you never do because deep down, (even though it's twisted and you hate yourself for it)you like those vapid, poorly written posts because they make you feel superior? That's exactly what this book is like. It's not good. No. It's not. It's badly written chick lit and the main character is a hopeless idiot. But I'll be goddamned if I didn't read the whole thing and even stay up late with it. All the time knowing full well that the ending was gonna be stupid and sappy and the big reveal was never gonna be worth the time I spenT reading this crap. *SIGH* BWAL: The Violets of Marc: Flower Arranging For The Modern Man ...more The characters are flat and boring, the dialogue is mind numbing, like when you overhear a conversation in public and it's the stupidest conversation you've ever heard and you just want the people to stop. talking. It was trite, cliche, with no depth to it at all. There were little things through out that bugged me, like when she described her aunt, an 80+ year old woman as \"barreling\" out of a car on page 21. I know some pretty spry octogenarians and none of them barrel. Then there was the frie The characters are flat and boring, the dialogue is mind numbing, like when you overhear a conversation in public and it's the stupidest conversation you've ever heard and you just want the people to stop. talking. It was trite, cliche, with no depth to it at all. There were little things through out that bugged me, like when she described her aunt, an 80+ year old woman as \"barreling\" out of a car on page 21. I know some pretty spry octogenarians and none of them barrel. Then there was the friend who reveals early on that she has cancer, only 1 month or less to live, and hasn't revealed this fact to her best friend. Again, I've known people with cancer with only a month to live, and trust me, you can tell just by looking at them that they have cancer. We are told over and over how amazing and wonderful Aunt Bee is, but it was never shown by Bee's actions or dialogue. Most of the time Bee was refusing to speak or changing the subject to flowers or birds or something stupid like that. The main character is beautiful, the love interest is the most handsome man ever (and she just finalized her divorce to the male model), but I never got a sense of it. I didn't care about the romance, I didn't feel it at all. And (Spoiler Alert) what, may I ask, was the point of Greg? The plot is okay, which is what kept me reading. Well, that and the fact that I sort of enjoyed piling up my list of grievances. But the characters are a big disappointment. ...more There are many family secrets to be discovered at Aunt Bea's house on Bainbridge Island, to where Emily, an author, escapes when her husband leaves her for another woman. A diary, or maybe the beginnings of a memoir or novel, is found in the nightstand; and while Emily is telling us her story, she is also reading us the diary, and oftentimes the present emulates the past. Sometimes a little too conveniently or too pat. And it is so frustrating when you know the characters are on the verge of a b There are many family secrets to be discovered at Aunt Bea's house on Bainbridge Island, to where Emily, an author, escapes when her husband leaves her for another woman. A diary, or maybe the beginnings of a memoir or novel, is found in the nightstand; and while Emily is telling us her story, she is also reading us the diary, and oftentimes the present emulates the past. Sometimes a little too conveniently or too pat. And it is so frustrating when you know the characters are on the verge of a big reveal and then Emily suddenly is too afraid to press for more answers, repeatedly. I could have moved on to my next book much quicker if only she had spoken up and asked some pertinent questions once in awhile. Then suddenly she was the opposite and obsessed with finding answers. Bainbridge Island sounds like a lovely place even in early March. I have my doubts, however, about tulips being in full bloom on the 9th of March as they were, and doubts that I would read this author again. The dialogue, overusage of the word heart (in my heart, my heart throbbed, etc. etc.) and descriptions of irrelevant minutia had me eye rolling more than once. The beginning dragged; the ending was tidy and rushed. ...more A dual story line that portays loss, regrets, love, mystery, and hope. Sarah Jio continues to be one of favorite authors. 3.5+ stars! Review by Kate: Emily Wilson\u2019s perfect husband turned out to be not so perfect\u2026he left her for another woman. Emily wrote a best-selling novel several years prior to the opening of the story, but has been living with writer\u2019s block ever since and cannot seem to find a story. Somehow, Emily\u2019s great-aunt Bee learns of Emily\u2019s woes, and invites her to visit her on Bainbridge Island, in the Puget Sound. This is one reason I was so excited for this book, as I have been to Bainbridge Island and fell i Review by Kate: Emily Wilson\u2019s perfect husband turned out to be not so perfect\u2026he left her for another woman. Emily wrote a best-selling novel several years prior to the opening of the story, but has been living with writer\u2019s block ever since and cannot seem to find a story. Somehow, Emily\u2019s great-aunt Bee learns of Emily\u2019s woes, and invites her to visit her on Bainbridge Island, in the Puget Sound. This is one reason I was so excited for this book, as I have been to Bainbridge Island and fell in love with the island. Emily says that she will stay for a month, and leaves New York City the day after her divorce is final. While staying in her Aunt Bee\u2019s house, Emily reminisces on the countless summers she spent there as a young girl. She had been away from Bainbridge Island for ten years, because her husband never wanted to visit. Aunt Bee\u2019s home is rather large with several rooms that Emily had never really been able to discover, as Aunt Bee kept them locked. This time, instead of having her usual room (the one she remembered from her childhood), she is placed in a room where she discovers a diary in the nightstand drawer. While Emily is reading the diary, she actually thinks it is her aunt\u2019s writing of a fictional story, and not an actual diary from 1943. But Emily starts to uncover facts that support her thoughts that this might be an actual diary, and not a work of fiction. The story in the diary progresses as Emily is courted by two different men on the island\u2026one from her past and another whom her Aunt Bee warns her against. I have to admit that I had high hopes for this story, but had a difficult time with the flow of the language. It seemed rather stilted, especially the conversations. Everyone talked the same way, and Ms. Jio seemed to have a thing against contractions. I did enjoy the diary parts, as the language flowed a little more smoothly. Also, having been to Bainbridge Island, from the writing I did not get a very good sense of the island itself. The ferry ride was well-described, with the smells, but you didn\u2019t have a sense of the people on the ferry\u2026 I always found that a great place to people watch. I found myself confused quite frequently as to the relationship between some of the characters. Aunt Bee was very strict on who she socialized with, or with whom Emily should see. The characters in the diary were some of the same in \u2018present day;\u2019 however, the author changed every single name, so you had no sense of which person was who\u2026and that made it a little difficult to piece the story between the past and the present. Ms. Jio had good intentions in making this a mystery, but having to have it all wrap up in the last fifty pages because the correct information was not given along the way, makes it a little difficult to accept. I had a hunch of what was going on, but it was so convoluted that I found myself flipping back and forth throughout the story, trying to piece it together\u2026I stopped myself from making charts and diagrams, though. Emily\u2019s character was rather flat. I really had no empathy for her and I found myself wondering several times if the main character was based on her, as she was a writer and could only write a paragraph or two at a time. I sometimes wondered if Ms. Jio did the same thing, as there were several inconsistent facts throughout the story. The two different love interests of Emily were also rather shallow. The story really doesn\u2019t go into why she chose one guy over the other. I sometimes wonder how books get published with seemingly little editing. Wouldn\u2019t an editor ask for more detail or more emotion? I did give this book 3 stars, as I found I was more invested in the diary portions of the story, and wanted to see how it tied together with the present story (which was still a little confusing when all was said and done). I wish I could have gotten to know the characters better, as I am sure they all had great stories to tell. However, I don\u2019t know if I could recommend this book. I know that several others have fallen in love with this story\u2026I am just not one of them. Quote: \u201cWe\u2019re two old women who haven\u2019t had a date in several decades, Emily,\u201d said Evelyn. \u201cGive us a little nugget.\u201d ...more WARNING: THIS REVIEW IS BADLY WRITTEN BUT I CAN'T BRING MYSELF TO BOTHER TO FIX IT. I usually really like stories like this, where someone is unfolding mysteries of the past, but this one ended up bothering me more than I enjoyed it. Emily's husband cheated on her, has moved out, is weeks away from a wedding with the new woman, and they've just signed divorce papers, but Emily hasn't told anyone but her best friend? That seems weird. And it's also not very important to the plot, so I'm not sure WARNING: THIS REVIEW IS BADLY WRITTEN BUT I CAN'T BRING MYSELF TO BOTHER TO FIX IT. I usually really like stories like this, where someone is unfolding mysteries of the past, but this one ended up bothering me more than I enjoyed it. Emily's husband cheated on her, has moved out, is weeks away from a wedding with the new woman, and they've just signed divorce papers, but Emily hasn't told anyone but her best friend? That seems weird. And it's also not very important to the plot, so I'm not sure why the author wrote it that way. And yet somehow her Great Aunt Bee has heard about it from across the country, and Emily doesn't question how. When she starts reading Esther's diary, it turns out that everyone who Emily actually knows now happens to go by a different name, so that she (and the reader) can't yet figure out who everyone is. That came across as a very contrived way of stretching out the mystery. Everyone Emily talks to on the island seems to know the secrets she's trying to discover, but while they're all perfectly willing to talk about the fact of the secrets so as to make her curious, they refuse to tell her any details, until suddenly they're all perfectly happy to spill everything. And why does Bee seems so uncomfortable around Henry anyway? Even once all the mysteries are clear, that's never truly explained. And Henry still being so sensitive to the events of 1943 as he is? Dude, get on with your life! And it's never explained why Bee keeps warning Emily away from Jack. I mean, I understand his relationship with the mystery, but that doesn't explain why Bee seems to dislike him so much, or really even why he was warned as a kid never to walk past her house like she was a witch or something. It's all so bizarre and unexplained! I can't complain about anything else without giving away plot points, so I'll just say that while it was a quick enough read with some cute elements, overall it wasn't good enough to overcome its numerous flaws. ...more OK, I knew this book was chick-lit and a romance, but still thought it would be somewhat better than what it was. The writing wasn't bad but it was totally and completely unbelievable. Heroine gets divorced, goes to island, immediately has two handsome men in love with her. There is never any sense of \"am I ready to love again?\" or \"wow, how lucky can I be after my bitter divorce?\" or \"ha ha, gonna rub my ex-husband's face in it!\" Emily never seems to have any emotions at all. The main plot is s OK, I knew this book was chick-lit and a romance, but still thought it would be somewhat better than what it was. The writing wasn't bad but it was totally and completely unbelievable. Heroine gets divorced, goes to island, immediately has two handsome men in love with her. There is never any sense of \"am I ready to love again?\" or \"wow, how lucky can I be after my bitter divorce?\" or \"ha ha, gonna rub my ex-husband's face in it!\" Emily never seems to have any emotions at all. The main plot is she finds a mysterious diary, which everyone keeps telling her \"it's meant for you to read it.\" They won't tell her why, though. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize the diary is about Emily's family and their friends on the island ... but obtuse Emily doesn't figure it out, mainly because EVERYONE INVOLVED CHANGED THEIR NAME ... WTF? Predictable and oh, so very, very trite. ...more Emily Wilson's life is falling apart at the seams, her husband was having an affair, and they have decided to divorce, her writing has stalled, and she lacks clarity. She decides to make a trip out to see Aunt Bee on Bainbridge Island, WA. It's just what she needs... What she finds there is a hidden red velvet journal that reveals dark family secrets that have been buried for decades, and will change Emily's life as she knows it. Sound dramatic? This book had huge potential, but never seemed to p Emily Wilson's life is falling apart at the seams, her husband was having an affair, and they have decided to divorce, her writing has stalled, and she lacks clarity. She decides to make a trip out to see Aunt Bee on Bainbridge Island, WA. It's just what she needs... What she finds there is a hidden red velvet journal that reveals dark family secrets that have been buried for decades, and will change Emily's life as she knows it. Sound dramatic? This book had huge potential, but never seemed to pull it together. I loved reading about the island and all of the wonderful characters, but the story just never fully developed for me. Nice, lighter beach read. I do want to try more by this author though. ...more In general I really enjoyed this book and the journey it took me on. It's has an unexpected mystery that gets unraveled through out and I always like a mystery and trying to solve it as I read. And I will say that this one kept me guessing a bit as I tried to put all the pieces together, but I did figure most of it out along the way. My major complaint is that there are way too many people in this story that used to go by another name. As the 'mystery' is being unraveled at the end it's all \"oh In general I really enjoyed this book and the journey it took me on. It's has an unexpected mystery that gets unraveled through out and I always like a mystery and trying to solve it as I read. And I will say that this one kept me guessing a bit as I tried to put all the pieces together, but I did figure most of it out along the way. My major complaint is that there are way too many people in this story that used to go by another name. As the 'mystery' is being unraveled at the end it's all \"oh she used to go by that\" and \"he used to go by this.\" I just have a hard time believing that in a tight circle of friends so many of them started going by a different name. I can really only think of 1 person that I know that completely changed his name from going by his middle name to going by his 1st name as an adult. So the chances that 5 people in a small town would all start going by a new nickname or switching from 1st to middle or middle to 1st once they are adults is pretty ridiculous to me. And then I felt a little annoyed by the ending. Not the actual ending necessarily, but more how it all made me feel. I had gotten caught up in the mystery of this story and Esther, but the ending and Esther's actions just left me with a bad taste in my mouth. I felt a bit cheated that the entire book I'm taken into Esther's world feeling drawn to her and hoping for the best for her, only to learn that she is basically just a silly and selfish person who made a pretty terrible decision with no regard for the feelings of the people she supposedly loved. I don't want to ruin the ending, so I'm trying to be vague - but I'd be interested to know what you think of it if you read it... ...more This was one of the books recommended to me in my romance novel reading quest. I can see why, as it is set on Bainbridge Island, Washington, and the central character is a woman finding herself and love after a bad breakup. She stays with her great-aunt on the island, and finds a journal from 1943, one which seems to have something important inside. This was more complex than many of the contemporary romance novels I read but still had that taste of ultra-convenience when it came to the right pe This was one of the books recommended to me in my romance novel reading quest. I can see why, as it is set on Bainbridge Island, Washington, and the central character is a woman finding herself and love after a bad breakup. She stays with her great-aunt on the island, and finds a journal from 1943, one which seems to have something important inside. This was more complex than many of the contemporary romance novels I read but still had that taste of ultra-convenience when it came to the right people being thrown together at the right time. (I'm still chafing against the borders of genre conventions.) ...more The wood violets that appear spontaneously in one character\u2019s yard in this rather silly story supposedly signify \u201chealing and hope.\u201d And for some unearthly reason the protagonist, Emily, is meant to bring the long-kept secrets of Bainbridge Island residents to light and thus bring about a great healing -- by unraveling the story in the mysterious diary she finds in her great-aunt\u2019s home while visiting from New York City -- a diary that was written in 1943 by \u201cEsther,\u201d at the insistence of a fort The wood violets that appear spontaneously in one character\u2019s yard in this rather silly story supposedly signify \u201chealing and hope.\u201d And for some unearthly reason the protagonist, Emily, is meant to bring the long-kept secrets of Bainbridge Island residents to light and thus bring about a great healing -- by unraveling the story in the mysterious diary she finds in her great-aunt\u2019s home while visiting from New York City -- a diary that was written in 1943 by \u201cEsther,\u201d at the insistence of a fortune teller who told her \u201cyour words will have great importance for the future\u201d and that she must write her story \u201cbefore it is too late.\u201d But Emily must do the unraveling alone; her great-aunt Bee, Bee\u2019s dear friend Evelyn, their neighbor Henry, and her own mother will not enlighten her although they all clearly know what happened way back when. It\u2019s just too painful, but also, again for some unearthly reason, it must be Emily who brings the closure everyone has been waiting decades for. To mix things up further, Emily has come to Bainbridge shortly after a painful divorce to be healed herself. She hasn\u2019t visited the island for many years and finds the landscape, the sound, and the special memories to be soothing. But she\u2019s barely off the ferry boat from Seattle when she is invited on dinner dates by two different men. No grass growing under her feet! So now we have the convoluted story in the diary, with characters who are called by their own names or maybe their middle names or maybe by other names entirely so that by the end you hardly know who\u2019s who. And we have Emily and her two budding romances, which apparently make her quickly forget her sorrow over her husband\u2019s recent betrayal. We have \u201ctrue\u201d love gone awry because of misunderstandings and pigheadedness. We have unrequited love that lasts a lifetime. And we\u2019re never clear why anyone loves anyone else in the first place; \u201cshe\u2019s the most beautiful girl on the island\u201d seems to be a favorite reason. I asked myself why I read this entire novel -- right through the climax that beggars belief -- when it was so clearly not to my liking early on. It was a fast read, for one thing, and I was just curious whether it got any better. After all, it had been chosen as one of the top ten women\u2019s fiction novels of 2011 by the eminent Library Journal. And that\u2019s another mystery that could use unraveling. ...more I saw this book being offered as a giveaway months before its official release date and as soon as I read the summary I wanted to read it so bad. I did not win the giveaway unfortunately; however, once I got my hands on it I started it immediately. The story's main character Emily Wilson is trying to survive a broken heart as her husband has just left her for another woman. Trying to pick up the pieces of her life and feeling altogether lost, she decides to spend a month visiting her great-aunt I saw this book being offered as a giveaway months before its official release date and as soon as I read the summary I wanted to read it so bad. I did not win the giveaway unfortunately; however, once I got my hands on it I started it immediately. The story's main character Emily Wilson is trying to survive a broken heart as her husband has just left her for another woman. Trying to pick up the pieces of her life and feeling altogether lost, she decides to spend a month visiting her great-aunt Bee on Bainbridge Island in Washington State to try to get her life under control and to start researching her next book. While there, she discovers a red velvet diary dated 1943 written by an unknown individual. The story written in the diary has her intrigued and she doesn't even realize that the story actually involves her and a decades old family mystery. I couldn't put this book down, it had me from the very beginning. The writing was flawless and the characters were described beautifully. After reading this I immediately went to try to find more of this author's work-had no idea this was her debut novel! Highly recommended and will definitely be keeping an eye out for more by Sarah Jio. ...more Zanimljivo zamisljena prica, ali neubjedljivo izvedena, jednostavno nije me kupila i citala sam je sporo, a 4- dajem zbog ipak solidnog zavrsetka, ali i zato jer ja nisam stroga u ocjenjivanju I loved this book! I actually began it June 24, and not the date I entered into Goodreads. I couldn't put it down once I started reading it. If Sarah Jio reads this, this was a wonderful book! I figured out the big mystery about 100 pages before the book ended, and I just loved the way it turned out. ----My Full Review---- I heard about this book from a Glamour writer, who wrote it. Intrigued if it was good, I got a sample of it for my Kindle. I tore through the first two chapters on it. I went a I loved this book! I actually began it June 24, and not the date I entered into Goodreads. I couldn't put it down once I started reading it. If Sarah Jio reads this, this was a wonderful book! I figured out the big mystery about 100 pages before the book ended, and I just loved the way it turned out. ----My Full Review---- I heard about this book from a Glamour writer, who wrote it. Intrigued if it was good, I got a sample of it for my Kindle. I tore through the first two chapters on it. I went a couple of months before I bought a physical copy of the book (see that people? I own a Kindle and I still buy actual books). It sat on my shelf for a few weeks, because I was finishing another book while moving into a new house. I really wanted to read it, but I was busy. Finally, on Friday I read the book. I spent most of the time outside, sitting by the pool reading it. I couldn't put it down. I was sucked into the world of Emily, Elliot, Esther, and the other characters in the book. I was mesmerized by the beauty described of Bainbridge Island, and I pictured it as a seaside village in Oregon, where I lived for two years before moving to California. I was torn between which guy Emily should date after the devastating dissolution of her seemingly-ideal marriage (secretly, I was leaning towards Jack--I am sucker for a dark-haired man). I was also wrapped up in the secondary story of Esther and Elliot, whether or not they'd end up together, and whether Esther was going to die. Seeing how her marriage with Bobby was a polar opposite to her relationship with Elliot (tepid water compared to steamy waters of a jacuzzi), I wanted to know what would happen. It was like watching The Notebook . All in all, it was an engaging story of love in the past, love in the present, and learning from your mistakes in the two worlds. It was also enjoyable to see Emily moving on, even when she'd given up on it ever happening for her. I highly recommend this book. You might be skeptical that it's good, but you will be pleasantly surprised. ...more The story is sure please grandmothers, mothers, and daughters alike with its genuine charm, eloquent writing, and romantic portrayal of the transcendence of love. While it took me a little longer than usual to really get into the book, once I did, I read the entire novel in a few hours, hungrily. The story beautifully captures the power that love has to transcend time, war, and generations. The dual plot lines work wonderfully, masterfully weaving the past with Emily\u2019s own quest for self. Jio\u2019s w The story is sure please grandmothers, mothers, and daughters alike with its genuine charm, eloquent writing, and romantic portrayal of the transcendence of love. While it took me a little longer than usual to really get into the book, once I did, I read the entire novel in a few hours, hungrily. The story beautifully captures the power that love has to transcend time, war, and generations. The dual plot lines work wonderfully, masterfully weaving the past with Emily\u2019s own quest for self. Jio\u2019s writing places her readers right in the middle of this idyllic setting of Bainbridge: you can taste the salty air of the sound, hear the seagulls flying excitedly overhead, feel the deep and mysterious history of the island in every step. I love how the setting plays such a large role in both Emily and the diary author\u2019s lives as it allows readers to really connect with the land as well. In the same way that Emily rediscovers and takes control of her life on the island, so too can readers embrace this self-sufficient and creative vibe that the island seems to radiate. The characters are rich and well-crafted. I grew to love them all (for the most part), to feel and hope and yearn for them as though they were my own friends, my own family. I ached for Emily and for the diary\u2019s author. My own heart swelled and dipped with them. One of my favorite characters is certainly Emily\u2019s Aunt, Bee. She is the free-spirited woman with whom Emily finds solace, and for good reason. There is something secretive and intriguing about Bee. In fact, each face on the island is more mysterious than the last, evoking the notion that nothing, and no one, is quite as it seems. Overall, I highly recommend The Violets of March to readers who like beautifully written reconciliation stories that test the waters for the heart\u2019s capacity to love, be loved, and start anew. I look forward to many more great novels from Sarah Jio! ...more For a novel based on the beautiful Bainbridge Island and Puget Sound, this one is remarkably devoid of description. What that resulted in for me is basically a very flat novel; merely words on a page. I wasn't shown very much of where things were happening, neither was I really engaged with any of the characters. None of them showed very much emotion throughout the story, including around the time of the funeral. As for the secret which Emily was seeking the answer to: honestly, it was all rathe For a novel based on the beautiful Bainbridge Island and Puget Sound, this one is remarkably devoid of description. What that resulted in for me is basically a very flat novel; merely words on a page. I wasn't shown very much of where things were happening, neither was I really engaged with any of the characters. None of them showed very much emotion throughout the story, including around the time of the funeral. As for the secret which Emily was seeking the answer to: honestly, it was all rather ho-hum. The book only got mildly interesting for the last 40 pages but I had already guessed the outcome much earlier than that. Characters who dropped hints, were nearly like they didn't care whether Emily searched out an answer or not. For me, the whole secret scenario felt like the author was racing through to get to the finale. Overall, not a book I would recommend: actually, I only finished it because I have a near pathological aversion to not finishing a book. The book jacket says \u201cA mesmerising debut...\u201d I didn't feel mesmerised at all; mostly bored and eager to get it over and done with. My copy of this novel, borrowed from the library, was set in Granjon print and extremely hard to read; quite small, narrow print. Did that set the tone for my feelings on the book? No, even if set in large print, I would feel the same. Simply a book which I feel was a waste of good reading time. 1 out of 5 stars. ...more - 5 de 5 estrellas - Lo mejor:Esta novela ha sido para mi mas que especial. Est\u00e1 escrita de una manera deliciosa, no sobra ni una frase, ni un punto, ni una coma. Es una historia intrigante, conmovedora y en un entorno idilico. Y esta, esta me la compro porque la quiero tener en mi estanter\u00eda. - Lo peor: Absolutamente nada - Mi personaje favorito: Esther - El personaje que menos me ha gustado: Ninguno. ABSOLUTAMENTE RECOMENDABLE The Violets of March by Sarah Jio is a beautifully told novel of family, forgiveness, and second chances. Emily Wilson thought she had it all. A blockbuster career as a writer, a handsome, successful husband, a life plucked from the pages of a fairy tale. But, ten years later, Emily is reeling from the fallout of divorce and perpetual writers\u2019 block. So, when her aunt Bee invites her to spend the month of March with her on Bainbridge Island in Washington State, Emily quickly accepts on the notion The Violets of March by Sarah Jio is a beautifully told novel of family, forgiveness, and second chances. Emily Wilson thought she had it all. A blockbuster career as a writer, a handsome, successful husband, a life plucked from the pages of a fairy tale. But, ten years later, Emily is reeling from the fallout of divorce and perpetual writers\u2019 block. So, when her aunt Bee invites her to spend the month of March with her on Bainbridge Island in Washington State, Emily quickly accepts on the notion that she will spend time researching her next book. And walks straight into a mystery. Bainbridge Island holds many secrets. When Emily discovers a diary written in 1943 by a woman named Esther Littleton, she is intrigued. Written as a \u201cstory within a story\u201d, the reader is taken along with Emily as she tries to uncover the secrets of the diary and its relevance to her own life. Diary entries are included in the text so the reader gets a feel for Esther\u2019s life; her troubles and heartaches; her longings and desires; and her anger and frustrations. What Emily doesn\u2019t realize is how this red, velvet diary will change the course of her life in innumerable ways. I really loved the telling of this story. It moves quickly and fluidly, without any odd interruptions or shifts in narrative, as might be expected with this type of book. I found myself trying to piece together the mystery in many different ways, but I ended up not being quite right in my assumptions, which is awesome! Who wants to read a book that you can figure out that easily? Great characters, dynamite mystery, beautiful setting. This is an all-around fabulous book! Plus, I love a good historical mystery with my contemporary tale, so this book is definitely high on my list of must-reads for 2011. ...more Part mystery, part love story...a touching tale that illustrates the undying fortitude of true love. I could not put it down. Shortly following her divorce and less than graceful fall from prior bestselling novelist glory, Emily Wilson retreats to her great-aunt Bee's home on Bainbridge Island. As she settles in for her first night's stay, she discovers a red velvet journal hidden in her nightstand. Intrigued, she begins to read. However, the names remain a complete mystery to her and she finds h Part mystery, part love story...a touching tale that illustrates the undying fortitude of true love. I could not put it down. Shortly following her divorce and less than graceful fall from prior bestselling novelist glory, Emily Wilson retreats to her great-aunt Bee's home on Bainbridge Island. As she settles in for her first night's stay, she discovers a red velvet journal hidden in her nightstand. Intrigued, she begins to read. However, the names remain a complete mystery to her and she finds herself immediately invested in the woman's words. As Emily meets more and more of the islanders, she begins to question their suspicious glances and behaviors. Her Aunt also appears to be hiding something. It isn't until her Aunt's best friend mentions that the journal was destined for her eyes that she begins to suspect something much bigger is going on, but what is everyone hiding? Multiple layers of love and betrayal lead to a life altering realization and closure for people who had been haunted by choices made years before...so so good. Super fast read. Sarah Jio is the bomb diggity, really loving her style. AMAZING!! ...more For me, this was slow to get into it. I find myself impatient with books lately, but I'm glad I stuck this one out. The story blends historical fiction with a touch of mystery, and I found it thoroughly enjoyable. Reviewed for and 1st seen on http://acozyreaderscorner.blogspot.com As I sit here, ready to pen my review of this book, I must confess I\u2019m just not sure my writing has what it takes to do this book justice. The Violets of March is a captivating and soulful read, I did not want to put it down. Many daily tasks were neglected while I read this novel. When I wasn\u2019t reading it, I was thinking about it. It\u2019s as if a constant pull beckoned me back to the book, which didn\u2019t disappoint me! The story itsel Reviewed for and 1st seen on http://acozyreaderscorner.blogspot.com As I sit here, ready to pen my review of this book, I must confess I\u2019m just not sure my writing has what it takes to do this book justice. The Violets of March is a captivating and soulful read, I did not want to put it down. Many daily tasks were neglected while I read this novel. When I wasn\u2019t reading it, I was thinking about it. It\u2019s as if a constant pull beckoned me back to the book, which didn\u2019t disappoint me! The story itself is one of the most original and refreshing stories that I've read in quite some time. It put stories I recently categorized as original to shame. I couldn\u2019t help but wonder how an author can come up with such refreshing and original material at this day in age. Regardless of her methods, Ms. Jio has proven to be a masterful story teller with this novel. It is full of depth and emotion with twist and turns that carry the reader away. The characters of The Violets of March are an intriguing and well developed group. My connection to Emily was instant, as if I had known her my whole life. In spirit, I was not sitting at home reading this novel. Instead, I was sitting with Emily at the sound; drinking Starbucks, overlooking the water and feeling the breeze as I listened to her tell me this intimate story. I felt as if I knew each character, their unique and vibrant personalities are part of what made them enjoyable to read. Sarah\u2019s writing style was wonderful. At no point during this novel was I aware that I was reading. I was simply immersed. I felt a part of the story, as if it was being told to me personally rather than the fact that I was simply reading it off the pages. The story is told through Emily, but switches tones when she is reading the diary. The dual storyline is executed beautifully. I was never lost, never had to pause or re-focus. It was a clear and smooth read. Overall, I feel this review could never quite capture the essence of this wonderful novel. I can only hope that you, as a reader, will trust my opinion when I say this novel is a must read! It is fresh, satisfying and fully re-readable. It will not disappoint you. My most simple and honest feelings about this book and Sarah\u2019s writing can be wrapped up in the following statement; based on The Violets of March, if Sarah Jio continues to write in this manner, I without doubt, have stumbled across my new favorite author. Her books are now a must read for me and I highly anticipate her next release. She is without doubt; a very talented writer and I urge you to read this book. It will amaze you. The Violets of March is available for pre-order and will be release on April 26th, 2011. Amazon has the book listed for fewer than ten dollars!! Treat yourself to a great read\u2026 ...more No secret, I love Sarah Jio's writing. Goodnight June was a favourite read last year. I loved The Bungalow & Morning Glory . The Violets of March was a favourite read of Stacy's and I was lucky enough to win a copy from her a few years ago, sadly it remained unread while I inhaled Sarah Jio's more recent works. I happen to love the delicate but hardy little violet flower with it's sweet, fleeting scent and some day I'd love to visit the beautiful Bainbridge Island. For now, I'm happy I pulled No secret, I love Sarah Jio's writing. Goodnight June was a favourite read last year. I loved The Bungalow & Morning Glory . The Violets of March was a favourite read of Stacy's and I was lucky enough to win a copy from her a few years ago, sadly it remained unread while I inhaled Sarah Jio's more recent works. I happen to love the delicate but hardy little violet flower with it's sweet, fleeting scent and some day I'd love to visit the beautiful Bainbridge Island. For now, I'm happy I pulled Sarah Jio's (very patient) debut off my bookshelf. In The Violets of March Emily retreats to her great-aunt Bee's home on Bainbridge Island with her marriage and writing career in tatters, hoping the beauty of the Puget Sound will heal and work its magic. The past seeps into the present and long kept secrets are slowly revealed as Emily gets caught up reading an old diary found in her nightstand. I really liked Bee and her dear friend Evelyn, and Jack too. And I was as consumed as Emily by Esther & Elliot's story, the secrets and mystery pulled me in ... betrayals, lost loves, forgiveness and second chances. Another little treasure from Sarah Jio ... Cover: much love ...more I really wanted to like this book and had expected more from it, having read the blurb of the book \" so when Emilly's great aunt Bee invites her to spend the month of March on Bainbridge Island in Washington state, Emily accepts, longing to be healed the the sea, researching her next book Emily discovers a red velvet diary,dated 1943 whose contents reveal startling connections to her own life............ I was intrigued by the blurb as it had the makings of an excellent story. The plot however i I really wanted to like this book and had expected more from it, having read the blurb of the book \" so when Emilly's great aunt Bee invites her to spend the month of March on Bainbridge Island in Washington state, Emily accepts, longing to be healed the the sea, researching her next book Emily discovers a red velvet diary,dated 1943 whose contents reveal startling connections to her own life............ I was intrigued by the blurb as it had the makings of an excellent story. The plot however is a little predictable and unrealistic and I had expected something different from this book and therefore was a little disappointed. However it is an easy read and while it did not have the wow factor it is a nice love story and I can see how readers views will differ on it as some will love it and others will find it ok, for me it needed a little more substance and that is why I rated it 3 stars. ...more<---C>Rose</---C>", "Title": "The Violets of March"},
