{"Comments": "<+++>Huey Lambert's Walking Nuclear Circus</+++>This book is definitely the reason why I am so happy and smiling for days. This is so great and so fun to read. I cannot get it off my mind even though I just finished reading it yesterday. In fact I will read it again now.<---F> That is how good it is</---F>. What I really like about this is that is makes me think. It keeps me so entertained with its wittiness. Only a true and dedicated writer can do that. It takes a lot of smartness and intelligence to write a quirky but addictive novel as this. I am so get This book is definitely the reason why I am so happy and smiling for days. This is so great and so fun to read. I cannot get it off my mind even though I just finished reading it yesterday. In fact I will read it again now. That is how good it is. What I really like about this is that is makes me think. It keeps me so entertained with its wittiness. Only a true and dedicated writer can do that. It takes a lot of smartness and intelligence to write a quirky but addictive novel as this. I am so getting a printed copy of this so I can relish this everywhere. Too bad it is unavailable in the Philippines so I may have to beg to strangers for money so I can buy this. But I do not care. It totally deserves a place in my bookshelf. I hope I can write as good as this author. I want my readers to enjoy my book the same way I relished this profound work of literature. Must be off now. I am excited to read this book again right now. It is such a delight to do so! Get your copies soon or I'll send demons to torture you. ...more (In the interests of full disclosure, I should say that the author gave me a digital copy of this book to read for the purpose of writing a review.) Saying I have mixed feelings about this book is an understatement. The author ignores generally accepted rules of punctuation, grammar, spelling; anyone who knows me knows these are practically a religion for me,<---M> so that at times</---M>, this book was physically painful for me to read. I had to make a conscious effort to force myself to step out of my comfo (In the interests of full disclosure, I should say that the author gave me a digital copy of this book to read for the purpose of writing a review.) Saying I have mixed feelings about this book is an understatement. The author ignores generally accepted rules of punctuation, grammar, spelling; anyone who knows me knows these are practically a religion for me, so that at times, this book was physically painful for me to read. I had to make a conscious effort to force myself to step out of my comfort zone and disregard these so-called rules (something I never was completely able to do). But when I was able to ignore the unconventional mechanics of the book, I became immersed in the plot and the underlying message of the story - so many of us spend the vast majority of our time doing things we don't want to do, working jobs we don't want to work, sucking up to people we can't stand - just so we can get some of those \"little green tickets\" called money. The bastards have got us so hooked into this \"money\" thing that we'll sacrifice our self-esteem, our bodies and our beliefs just to make a bit of the green. True freedom comes when you reach that point where you say \"No More. I've done this much to earn my way in this world, but I've reached that line that I will not cross.\" Huey's life sucks. He knows it sucks, but he isn't willing to do anything about it, because he's a big wimp. And he knows he's a wimp. But he finally reaches that point, that perfect storm of shitty events, that tells him he's had enough of being stepped on by other people. And he starts to take charge of his life. And that is where this story gets really good. ...more I really, really enjoyed this book. Culver has actually managed to make an anti-hero sympathetic and likeable, something I rarely find believable (or palatable, for that matter). Maybe it's because he named him \"Huey.\" Maybe it's because Huey managed to (view spoiler) [actually wrest control of the book from the narrator at one point, proving that narration switches can happen in a way that's more entertaining than jarring. Bravo, sir. (hide spoiler) ] . Culver has obviously been paying attention w I really, really enjoyed this book. Culver has actually managed to make an anti-hero sympathetic and likeable, something I rarely find believable (or palatable, for that matter). Maybe it's because he named him \"Huey.\" Maybe it's because Huey managed to (view spoiler) [actually wrest control of the book from the narrator at one point, proving that narration switches can happen in a way that's more entertaining than jarring. Bravo, sir. (hide spoiler) ] . Culver has obviously been paying attention when he reads Robert Anton Wilson, and it comes through naturally in the story without parroting or preaching too much. I'm thinking specifically of the fact that Huey (view spoiler) [actualizes his own freedom when he comes to recognize money as nothing more than bio-survival tickets (hide spoiler) ] . To that I say, fnord. Probably the highest praise I can give is that I wanted it to be longer. I raced through it, and there is a large bit of action that is not included in the narrative. However, I think this is actually a clever bit of storytelling, making the last third of the story all the more enjoyable for the sudden disconnect. The (view spoiler) [birth of Huey's new nation, his new relationship and his rise to cultural icon status (hide spoiler) ] are all revealed naturally enough without having to see these things play out and I think their impact was much greater for it. In all, an excellent read and I look forward to more of Culver's stuff. ...more One thing I like about indie writers is that they bring new ways of telling a story, for example, Huey Lambert's story may not be commercial but it can be a cult classic. <---A>Jonathan Culver</---A>'s writing is very witty and sarcastic with a dry humor that made me chuckle a few times. Huey Lambert is a total loser with a boring job, cheating wife, no dreams or ambitions...so really, he could be any of us. Taking this pathetic, pity-worthy character and making him interesting is not easy, I kept reading bec One thing I like about indie writers is that they bring new ways of telling a story, for example, Huey Lambert's story may not be commercial but it can be a cult classic. Jonathan Culver's writing is very witty and sarcastic with a dry humor that made me chuckle a few times. Huey Lambert is a total loser with a boring job, cheating wife, no dreams or ambitions...so really, he could be any of us. Taking this pathetic, pity-worthy character and making him interesting is not easy, I kept reading because I wanted to know what would happen to Huey. I also loved Culver's style, the descriptions are awesome! Throughout the story the reader will find hidden gems of pop culture trivia. This is the type of story that will reveal something each time it is read and there is a real challenge/quest for the readers in one of the chapters! As a personal anecdote, in Part I, there is a mention about Huey driving a Saturn only because it was a super cheap car to buy, as opposed to a Volkswagen which is better and more expensive. It turns out that day I bought a car, among the choices I had was a Saturn SC1 and a VW Beetle, I choose the Beetle because it's more reliable, even though it was more expensive than the Saturn. So later that day when I read that part I just had to laugh. ...more This was a wacky-quirky read...but it made me laugh! The conversations between the narrator/characters/ reader were absolutely BRILLANT!! 4 stars because it's weird and wonderful....and I love the weird and wonderful!!! Plain and simple, one of the funnest books I have ever read. A quick, easy read that I burst through in one sitting, but good enough I intend to revisit it in the future. My favorite new author. Read this in four hours, laughing the entire time. A truly fabulous read. Drivel. Poorly edited drivel. The author describes it more than once as a crappy book and he's right. Only redeeming value? It's short.<---C>Jonathan Culver</---C><+++>Huey Lambert's Walking Nuclear Circus</+++>", "Title": "Huey Lambert's Walking Nuclear Circus"},
