{"Comments": "This was super fluffy, cute, and easy to read. It felt like I was reading a fairy tale as a child! It doesn't feel like young adult,<---M> but it's a charming</---M>, refreshing read! Here's my booktalk: https://youtu.be/D59k9BvRTVg a) Just because a woman/mermaid dislikes men doesn't make her a feminist . Oh my Lord, do I really have to bring this up after the Tempest fiasco? That makes her a misandrist: a man-hater. A feminist is a person who believes in equality for both men and women.<---F> GET THAT THROUGH YOUR HEADS</---F>. (<---B>This is not snark. This is pure naked truth.</---B>) b) Just because you make a lack of courage your hero's tragic flaw doesn't mean you can make him perfect in every other way . I'm a little sick and tired of all the b a) Just because a woman/mermaid dislikes men doesn't make her a feminist . Oh my Lord, do I really have to bring this up after the Tempest fiasco? That makes her a misandrist: a man-hater. A feminist is a person who believes in equality for both men and women. GET THAT THROUGH YOUR HEADS. (This is not snark. This is pure naked truth.) b) Just because you make a lack of courage your hero's tragic flaw doesn't mean you can make him perfect in every other way . I'm a little sick and tired of all the boys who can make our gals blush with every smile or word they output. c) An intimate connection does not occur because you've both lost a parent . Especially when the hero can't even remember aforementioned parent. d) Why. On. Effing. Earth. Would. You. Use. CENTURY GOTHIC ON THE INSIDE OF A BOOK?! *shrieks* It suuuuure didn't help me take Delilah seriously. The font for Oliver's passages isn't much better. DX (This is a really inadequate review, I realize. Please see my dear friend Nafiza's review , where she much more eloquently states why this book isn't good.) ...more That was a fun, quick and adorable read for youngsters as if straight from a Disney movie and I won\u2019t be surprised if it does make it to the big screen. It\u2019s imaginative and entertaining and the premise of the novel is indeed a curious thought- that characters of the books we read could be alive and could be living a life of their own, could jump from page to page when the reader isn\u2019t reading the story written in the book. I already knew my 12 year old niece would love it and when I passed her That was a fun, quick and adorable read for youngsters as if straight from a Disney movie and I won\u2019t be surprised if it does make it to the big screen. It\u2019s imaginative and entertaining and the premise of the novel is indeed a curious thought- that characters of the books we read could be alive and could be living a life of their own, could jump from page to page when the reader isn\u2019t reading the story written in the book. I already knew my 12 year old niece would love it and when I passed her the book, she devoured it in two days. She said it\u2019s the best book she has read just yet with dreamy eyes and satisfied sighs. Lol. Want to know more, do check out Pinky's review .^^ ...more There is a very famous play by Tom Stoppard called Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. The play deals with metaphysical elements of two-dimensional characters who question their existence and its cyclical nature. <+++>Between the Lines</+++> reminded me of that play. It, too, deals with a character in a fictional piece of work fighting against his existence or, perhaps, the lack of it. There are some very delightful illustrations accompanying the text \u2013 my favourite is the one where Prince Oliver is cli There is a very famous play by Tom Stoppard called Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. The play deals with metaphysical elements of two-dimensional characters who question their existence and its cyclical nature. <+++>Between the Lines</+++> reminded me of that play. It, too, deals with a character in a fictional piece of work fighting against his existence or, perhaps, the lack of it. There are some very delightful illustrations accompanying the text \u2013 my favourite is the one where Prince Oliver is climbing the text. The premise is definitely promising and in the beginning, I was quite entertained by the novel. Unfortunately, it started unraveling for me after the first few chapters. While the exchanges between Delilah and Prince Oliver are engaging, Delilah herself is not a character I can empathize with or even relate to. I understand her love for reading but her fascination with one book to the point where she reads it over and over again consecutively is somehow not very believable. Maybe it\u2019s just me. The thing that turned me off Delilah completely is the way she treats her best friend. How am I supposed to like a main character who throws away her only friend for a fictional character? Who doesn\u2019t return her friend\u2019s calls, ignores her entreaties to spend time together, lies to her \u2013 all for a guy who may or may not be able to change the medium of his existence. And then when we do get the requisite turning over a new leaf, will love you better and yay from Delilah, it is only for the express purpose of getting her friend to drive her somewhere \u2013 oh it\u2019s not written as such but really, I read Between the Lines and yes, pun is intended. Another thing that pretty much sealed the deal where the book is concerned is Delilah\u2019s comment about the mermaids. For some context, the mermaids are written as boy-loving when the book is being read but once the covers are closed, they do not care for men at all. Apparently, according to Delilah, this makes them \u201chard-core feminists.\u201d Right. I do not understand what not liking men or thinking that you do not need a man to complete you as a person has to do with being a feminist. Feminism has very little to do with men. Hating men is not feminism. Not wanting to be in a relationship is also not a sign of feminism. Feminism is not, I repeat, a disease. God. This makes me so angry. Okay. Delilah is fifteen years old and from what I read, has not experienced life at all. She hasn\u2019t met many people, has not had life altering experiences, has not lived and yet, she is talking about \u201cdestiny\u201d and \u201cfate\u201d and meant to be together with you forever. Yep. Also, the ending is pretty ridiculous. I will not believe that a person would sacrifice so much so quickly. I don\u2019t think so. It seemed too neat and too contrived. Conclusion? I cannot recommend this book to you because I didn\u2019t like it. This is not saying that you shouldn\u2019t read it \u2013 I don\u2019t dictate what you read and what you don\u2019t. I\u2019m just saying that there are better books out there. ...more I'm not sure if the fact that I've read a few books by <---A>Jodi Picoult</---A> in the past affected my enjoyment of this novel, and even though I knew not to expect her usual story-type since it's written with her daughter, this was a lot different than what I had envisioned. It's a good book. It is. But I think it's aimed at a younger YA audience and this is where I was left a little underwhelmed. It's a fairy tale in all it's classic glory. This is a story about princes, love, friends, overcoming the imp I'm not sure if the fact that I've read a few books by Jodi Picoult in the past affected my enjoyment of this novel, and even though I knew not to expect her usual story-type since it's written with her daughter, this was a lot different than what I had envisioned. It's a good book. It is. But I think it's aimed at a younger YA audience and this is where I was left a little underwhelmed. It's a fairy tale in all it's classic glory. This is a story about princes, love, friends, overcoming the impossible to get to your ever afters. Delilah, loner, social pariah, loves to lose herself in a story. This takes a whole new meaning when a character from a child's illustrated book - sweet and charming Oliver - starts talking to her! Like all Jodi Picoult novels, the story is told from several perspectives. This case is a bit unique in that we have Delilah, we have Oliver, but also, we have Oliver's story - the actual fairy tale in his book. I thought this gave it an extra kick, without disrupting the flow as they are generally kept short. Being a fan of multiple perspectives to begin with, I really enjoyed getting to know both Delilah and Oliver individually. Delilah is in the \"real world\" with real problems: a pretty average teenage life. I liked her character; the outcast who's trying to escape by reading. She's kept fairly plain Jane and I think a lot of readers will be able to relate to her. However, I found myself easily favoring Oliver's POV. Oliver has been stuck in his fairy tale since it was written, with a \"book\" family of his own that makes his chapters vibrate with life. Oliver himself is a very likeable character with imperfections and an enchanting demeanor, but I especially adored every single one of the unusual people - and creatures - that we got to meet alongside him. I did notice some inconsistencies in his character, though, particularly in his knowledge of the real world - or Otherworld as he calls it - by mentioning things that would not have been possible for him to recognize or perceive. Maybe it simply needed to tell us more about how they acquired what they do know. Like I said, as I felt this was aimed at a younger YA audience, these small discrepancies are most likely expected to be overlooked, which is certainly manageable. The story is, in one word, pleasant. For someone so young as a co-author, the writing is especially fluid with beautiful, almost cinematic, descriptions. Cute humor and adorable passages makes it a lighthearted novel. To spice things up a bit - my favorite part of the book - are the sketches and illustrations that are scattered throughout to give us a very fun reading experience: -These are from the uncorrected proof and the finished copy may differ (it stated that the final book would have full colored illustrations) After everything is said and done, a fairy tale is what you get. It's cute, it's fun, and it's refreshing; what you expect from this story will factor in your enjoyment of it. I was effortlessly and quite easily kept entertained by its imaginative plot, but as I was expecting something a bit less fluffy, it failed to completely dazzle me. With that said, readers who are fascinated by fairy tales and have a weakness for happily-ever-afters will surely eat this one up! -- For more of my reviews, visit my blog at Xpresso Reads ...more It was an interesting concept, but not very well executed. The book was extremely inconsistent. For example, how could Oliver know what a fire extinguisher and orthodontia is but not a sandwich? They had sandwiches back in the Middle Ages, even if they didn't call them sandwiches. Plus, I'm not sure what the target audience of this book it. It's marketed as YA, but the writing is so straight-forward and simple. The authors try to add themes and \"deep meaning\" to this book, but it's so ridiculous It was an interesting concept, but not very well executed. The book was extremely inconsistent. For example, how could Oliver know what a fire extinguisher and orthodontia is but not a sandwich? They had sandwiches back in the Middle Ages, even if they didn't call them sandwiches. Plus, I'm not sure what the target audience of this book it. It's marketed as YA, but the writing is so straight-forward and simple. The authors try to add themes and \"deep meaning\" to this book, but it's so ridiculously obvious what they're trying to do, it made me laugh. Oh, and the development of Oliver and Delilah's relationship. We didn't get to SEE any of it happened. It just got told to us. Also, seeing how this is written (partially) by someone in high school, you'd think that she would write it more realistically. I mean, unless she was going for satire, which I don't think she was. High school for Delilah was so Mean Girls , I couldn't take her seriously. It was about as realistic as Disney's portrayal of prom, which in my sister's words is \"so fake that even I know it, and I'm not even in middle school.\" The plot was far more complex than I thought it would be (but my expectations weren't really that high). And the book was a tad too long for such a simple conflict. It dragged a little in the end. Ooh! But the book gets bonus points for mentioning Harry Potter and Hunger Games (even though Delilah did make a jab at it and say she was on team Peeta. Ew.) If Jodi Picoult is going to \"write down\" for all the other young adult novels she does, she should probably just stick to writing adult. (Although I'm incredibly jealous of her daughter. I want a famous author mom so I could write books and be published and put that on my college app!) ...more I would have been OBSESSED with this when I was a tween!! Adorbs. Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes: - 7. A book about books Anyone familiar with Picoult\u2019s solo adult books will know they usually involve moral issues and can be very confrontational. The first thing you need to do when you pick up this book: forget about her solo work and remember this is a joint effort. Trust me when I say it is something completely different from any of her previous works. And, boy, is it wonderful. Delilah is a teenager who doesn\u2019t really \u2018fit in\u2019 to any of the groups at school and she *gasp* spends her lunchtime in the library. She Anyone familiar with Picoult\u2019s solo adult books will know they usually involve moral issues and can be very confrontational. The first thing you need to do when you pick up this book: forget about her solo work and remember this is a joint effort. Trust me when I say it is something completely different from any of her previous works. And, boy, is it wonderful. Delilah is a teenager who doesn\u2019t really \u2018fit in\u2019 to any of the groups at school and she *gasp* spends her lunchtime in the library. She loves books, but lately there is one book in particular which she has been reading over and over. Between the Lines is an illustrated fairy tale which Delilah found by accident one day in the library. If anyone found out how much she reads it, she\u2019d have no chance of ever being considered anywhere close to normal, but she\u2019s willing to risk it because there is something, someone , making this book more than just your average fairy tale. Prince Oliver is the main character of the fairy tale and lately he\u2019s noticed someone older reading the book. Yes, Oliver, along with all the other characters, is alive inside the book. Each time the book is opened they perform their required roles and act out the story to the reader. However, Oliver is sick of this constant performance and longs for a life where he can do what he wants freely. And that\u2019s where Delilah comes in. So far, no one has ever been so attached to this story, if she loves it so much perhaps she\u2019ll be the one who is willing to hear Oliver\u2019s cry for help. Firstly, let me just say how completely amazing I found this premise. As someone who has always loved reading, I have sometimes wondered what it would be like if the characters in a book were real, if they lived in our world. However, I love the idea that characters in books have their own lives when the book is closed and that they are completely different people from those they play in the book. The idea for the novel was proposed by Van Leer to her mother and I think it is wonderful to see a successful adult author embracing such a magical concept. In terms of the audience for this book, it is wonderful in that it will appeal to a broad age range. I know I would have enjoyed this when I was nine just as much as I do now and I\u2019m sure that re-reading this in a few years I will have the same reaction. That said, I\u2019m sure a lot of adults will not be willing to give it a go because of the fact it is mostly aimed at children and teens. However, I\u2019d love to see parents buying this for their children and sneaking it away to read themselves (as my dad did with Harry Potter ) because imagination is a wonderful thing and it\u2019s not something which is just for children. We need more books like this. In terms of the writing, I found it engaging and fast-paced. I thought it would be difficult not to make comparisons with Picoult\u2019s solo work before I started reading, but actually it was simple because this is so radically different from all her other work. I loved the fact that the actual fairy tale Delilah reads in the book is a character in its own right. Although we, as readers, are not able to read the fairy tale in it\u2019s entirety, I really enjoyed reading the sections interspersed throughout the novel. I also loved that I was able to read the fairy tale and then find out from Oliver what happens after that scene when the book is closed. It was like seeing an actor playing their role and then seeing what happens when the director yells \u2018Cut!\u2019. I found the writing style to be thoroughly engaging and was struggling to put it down. Delilah was a character who blew me away because, just like Monica Geller and Hermione Granger, I could see so many elements of myself in her. Firstly, she spends her lunchtimes in the library. Finally, a heroine who loves the library! And I love that she does, because I was totally that girl. I mean, it\u2019s not like I didn\u2019t have wonderful friends, but I just loved the library (and still do). Also: it had air-conditioning. Ok, I\u2019m kidding*. I was head of the library committee at school and my main job was shelving books and making displays and the like. And you were wondering how I ended up with a book blog? So, anyway, back on topic. I LOVE Delilah. I mean, who has not fallen in love/lust with a character from a novel? Looking at the illustrations of Oliver in the book I can totally see the attraction. Her voice as a character was also authentic, and I have no doubt that Van Leer\u2019s input was crucial to this. The cast of storybook characters was fascinating and I really enjoyed seeing their in and out of character personalities. They didn\u2019t just blend into the background behind Oliver and Delilah, but were a crucial part of what made this book so delightful to read. Although the book didn\u2019t end on a cliffhanger and could quite reasonably remain as a stand-alone, there is room for a sequel. This is something Picoult and Van Leer discussed during their promotional even in Brisbane earlier this year. I for one would love to see a sequel, I loved the characters and am interested to see how they deal with some of the issues raised at the conclusion of the novel. \u201cHe understood, in that crystalline instant, that courage wasn\u2019t something you were bequeathed at birth, and it wasn\u2019t a lack of fright. It was overcoming you fear, because the ones you loved mattered more.\u201d \u201cAt that moment Oliver realized that home is not a place, but rather, the people who love you.\u201d \u201cThe act of reading is a partnership. The author builds a house, but the reader makes it a home.\u201d Between the Lines is a truly magical tale for all ages with wonderful characters, an intriguing premise and a witty, engaging writing style. This is the best kind of book: the kind where you can let your imagination run wild and be taken on a journey as the pages turn. This review and many more can be found at Maree's Musings . *Well, only a little bit because where I come from our seasons tend to blend together and it\u2019s hot and humid about 75% of the year meaning lunchtime outside was always torturous. Although, I loved the library before it had air-conditioning. Oops, rambling now. I\u2019ll stop. I promise. ...more (This review will contain major spoilers) I really wanted to like this book. The idea of it was good- what book-loving girl hasn't wanted a fictional character? I've always been a sucker for fairy tales, and that's why the book appealed to me. But oh, was this book terrible. I could go on for hours talking about why I didn't like it, but I'm just going to talk about a few major points. 1.) The High School/Delilah Cliche, cliche cliche. In the introduction, Jodi mentioned how her daughter was a junio (This review will contain major spoilers) I really wanted to like this book. The idea of it was good- what book-loving girl hasn't wanted a fictional character? I've always been a sucker for fairy tales, and that's why the book appealed to me. But oh, was this book terrible. I could go on for hours talking about why I didn't like it, but I'm just going to talk about a few major points. 1.) The High School/Delilah Cliche, cliche cliche. In the introduction, Jodi mentioned how her daughter was a junior in high school. As a junior myself, I thought that maybe we'd get a good look into what high school and being a teenager is really all about. I was so, so wrong. The main character is the stereotypical outcast, hated by everyone and constantly talking about \"the most popular girls in school\". Her only friend is a emo/punk/whatever girl who hates Justin Bieber and has absolutely no point in the story. 2.) The format There is a reason most books are typed in black Times New Roman 12. What's with all the colors and stupid fonts? They don't add anything to the plot and make readers feel like they're reading a children's book. I thought this was YA? I get that it's supposed to give a fairy tale feel... but no. 3.) The ending. This ending was terrible. Oh my god it was bad . The characters spend the entire second half of the book trying to find a way to get Oliver out of the book, and when they do it's incredibly anticlimactic and sudden. It feels rushed- as if the writer realized the train wreck she was writing and decided to end it as soon as possible. But that's not even the real problem I have with the ending. Through the book, there's a big emphasis on the importance of family. Oliver's father is killed by the dragon and his mother is so protective she insists that he doesn't fight, Delilah's father left her when she was a child, Delilah's mother is constantly worried about her. The entire reason why Delilah is drawn to the book in the first place is because she and Oliver both don't have fathers. Written by a mother/daughter duo, you'd expect that family takes a big role in the book. That's why the ending was so unexpected and inconsistent. The writer of the fairy tale, Jessamyn, has a son named Edgar identical to Oliver. Magically (we are given no more explanation), Oliver and Edgar switch places. Edgar is placed into the story and Oliver is expected to act as Jessamyn's new son. WHAT? SERIOUSLY? DOES NO ONE FIND THIS MORALLY WRONG? Despite Edgar not being the best son for Jessamyn, that does not change the fact that EDGAR IS JESSAMYN'S SON. Jessamyn clearly loves Edgar a lot. Why is trapping Edgar in a fairy tale, away from his loving mother, a happy ending? Yes- Edgar's happy. He makes the fairy tale his own. But seriously? Anyone who thinks this is a good ending for him or Jessamyn is either deluded or 9 years old. And after the book has this consistent theme of family- they present that it's alright for a mother and son to be separated forever like this? Jessamyn is completely unaware of this at the end of the novel- she didn't even get a say in her son's fate. This is how she is repaid for making Delilah's dream guy? Sigh. I'm so done with this book. ...more Written by Jodi Picoult and her daughter Samantha van Leer, and it's evident from the very first line that the only writing Jodi did in this was adding her name to the cover. The book is targeted YA, but it is a very young YA. It lacked any of the punch, depth and insight that Jodi's work usually has. The story concept could have been interesting if it had been better written. But it was full of plot holes and continuity issues, and everything really only seemed to be addressed on a superficial Written by Jodi Picoult and her daughter Samantha van Leer, and it's evident from the very first line that the only writing Jodi did in this was adding her name to the cover. The book is targeted YA, but it is a very young YA. It lacked any of the punch, depth and insight that Jodi's work usually has. The story concept could have been interesting if it had been better written. But it was full of plot holes and continuity issues, and everything really only seemed to be addressed on a superficial level. Same goes for the characters, who were not particularly interesting, nor were they fleshed out at all. I would normally say that a lot of this comes down to the fact that Samantha is clearly very young and not an eperienced writer, but I don't think that's particularly fair as there have been some amazing books written by writers as young as Samantha. At the risk of being scathing, I'm doubtful that Jodi would have put her name to this book if it had been written by anyone other than her daughter. And even then, I'm surprised that she did, considering the standard of the work. Obviously it was to grant Samantha not only publication, but an immediate audience, which no doubt worked, but at the same time I feel was manipulative and somewhat deceitful. ...more While the concept was cute and the illustrations fun, I can't help but wonder if this would have made it onto the shelves had Jodi's name not been attached. Don't get me wrong, for a first book written by a teen, it's good, and I am sure Jodi is proud of her daughter, but she has a long way to go before reaching her mom's ability. The characters were very flat, and the ending was unbelievable. It actually started out pretty well and had mysterious build up, only to fall short. I'm glad I didn't While the concept was cute and the illustrations fun, I can't help but wonder if this would have made it onto the shelves had Jodi's name not been attached. Don't get me wrong, for a first book written by a teen, it's good, and I am sure Jodi is proud of her daughter, but she has a long way to go before reaching her mom's ability. The characters were very flat, and the ending was unbelievable. It actually started out pretty well and had mysterious build up, only to fall short. I'm glad I didn't invest any money in it. I think perhaps the middle school population would like this. I would not recommend it to my high school students. The whole idea of a teen being obsessed with a fairy tale prince is just too preposterous. ...more Have you ever wondered what happens when you close a book? Do the characters stay frozen? Do they play chess on the beach? Do they rehearse their lines and try on outfits? Do they gossip about characters and munch on snacks? Or do they long to escape their 'happily ever after'? A mesmerising tale of a young girl and a fictional prince who enlist the help of the other to escape their worlds and to discover how their own stories end. What if your fictional crush spoke to you? Think about it... Imagine Will Herondale started talking to you and asked you to rescue him and take him out of the book. Wouldn't it be a dream come true? Well that's what happened to fifteen year old Delilah, a miserable teenager who wants nothing more but for her fictional crush, Prince Oliver to come to life. Between the Lines is one of the books made by the author and it's one of a kind, and Delilah found it in her library. Between the Lines is on What if your fictional crush spoke to you? Think about it... Imagine Will Herondale started talking to you and asked you to rescue him and take him out of the book. Wouldn't it be a dream come true? Well that's what happened to fifteen year old Delilah, a miserable teenager who wants nothing more but for her fictional crush, Prince Oliver to come to life. Between the Lines is one of the books made by the author and it's one of a kind, and Delilah found it in her library. Between the Lines is one of Delilah's favorite fairy tales and she cannot stop reading it over and over again. She loves the book but since it is a book for kids, she keeps the fact that it is her favorite book a secret. One day, while she was reading, Prince Oliver spoke to Delilah. He explained that he wanted nothing more but to get out of the book. Delilah is trying to find a way to get Prince Oliver out of the book. Is this real, or is this a dream? I fell in love with this book it was just such a sweet and simple read. I finished it in 2 hours and in one sitting. It was just so addicting to read. The way this book was formatted was just amazing, I love how it switched from the actual story, to Prince Oliver's POV, and to Delilah's POV. It was nice to see what both characters were thinking and see how the story was supposed to end. One of the main reasons why I loved this book was because of the characters. Prince Oliver is charming and Delilah is AMAZING!!! There are so many things that I can relate to in this book and it felt so real. Delilah and I have so much in common and I really wish that the events that happened in the book were real. Whenever Delilah opened her book and her mom would tell her to stop reading, it felt like my mom was telling me to stop reading. (It happens to me all the time because she thinks I read too much...) The plot was unique and although we all know how the story ends, it's still worth reading. Sometimes I am too lost into the story that I feel like I'm Delilah and it's just too good to be true. I didn't expect the plot twists, but that was amazing too. The writing style is different in the story, Prince Oliver's POV and Delilah's POV and I really like that. It makes the story more realistic, if the writing style were the same for all three parts it would feel unrealistic. Overall, I really enjoyed this book and I should have read this book sooner. I'm gonna dive into the next book ASAP! I RECOMMEND THIS TO EVERYONE AND I MEAN EVERYONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Happy Reading! ...more This is my first book of Jodi Picoult ,and I must say she's got quite a talent for fiction and fairy tales. And just reading the author's introduction made me admire her already,even her daughter Samantha van Leer ,for teaming up with her,to do this kind of unique tale.Their joint imagination and ideas made the writing beautiful. I like the concept of this book because it was really a fun read! Who wouldn't want to read a book where their favorite characters seems to be talking to you,or seems to b This is my first book of Jodi Picoult ,and I must say she's got quite a talent for fiction and fairy tales. And just reading the author's introduction made me admire her already,even her daughter Samantha van Leer ,for teaming up with her,to do this kind of unique tale.Their joint imagination and ideas made the writing beautiful. I like the concept of this book because it was really a fun read! Who wouldn't want to read a book where their favorite characters seems to be talking to you,or seems to be staring back at you? This book kinda remind me of my favorite fantasy movie back in my teenage years, The Never Ending Story ,where Sebastian was the reader. In here,the reader was Delilah ,a 15 year old girl who loves to read books,and there's this one particular fairy tale book that she reads over and over,because she felt she's got a great connection to this book,especially to Prince Oliver ,the main character on this book she's reading.And to Delilah's surprise,she heard the prince talk to her..and this is where the fun begins. This book is entertaining and interesting,especially to the youngsters,and to those who love fairy tales like me..I also love the illustrations that's been added to the book,they're beautiful.And the ending was hilarious! Many thanks to my 12 year old daughter, HANNAH ,who enthusiastically recommended this to me,and who kept saying \" this is the best book,ever! \" while she was reading this. I just want my daughter to know how proud I am of her,for being not just the TOP STUDENT in her class section,this first quarter,but also the NO.1 STUDENT in the whole grade 7 of their school! My God,my daughter's a genius!Lol! I love you so much,Hannah! Keep it up,sweetheart!^^ ...more 4.5 stars Delilah has never felt like she belonged to the real world. Sure, she has her best friend, Jules and her mom, but her life at school is miserable and she never grew up with a dad. So it's no wonder that she clings to her books so desperately. They can never disappoint her and it's where happily ever after exists, if only for a short while. But what if the characters in your stories don't end after you close the book for the night? What happens if the characters go about their business i 4.5 stars Delilah has never felt like she belonged to the real world. Sure, she has her best friend, Jules and her mom, but her life at school is miserable and she never grew up with a dad. So it's no wonder that she clings to her books so desperately. They can never disappoint her and it's where happily ever after exists, if only for a short while. But what if the characters in your stories don't end after you close the book for the night? What happens if the characters go about their business in the world written for them? And what happens when one of those characters doesn't want to live in a fairy tale, but wants to be able to feel and think and really live? This is a story about Delilah McPhee and Prince Oliver. One who wants help escaping his existence while the other just wants to belong. Aww, this was such a sweet and fun concept! Between the Lines is one of those reads where I could curl up on the couch and totally lose myself in this world. I've never read anything by Jodi Picoult before (something that I'll have to fix) and while this would be Samantha Van Leer's debut, I can't wait to see more from her in the future. This book was chalked filled with vivid and rich imagination and cunning creativity. It's absorbed with magic and love and wonderment right down to the different color fonts pages to the gorgeous art illustrations to the captivating story inside. This was such a wonderful experience fit for fans who devour happily ever after. This book is told in Delilah and Oliver's point of view. But we also get the actual fairy tale that Prince Oliver belongs to. A story within a story. It may sound confusing or overwhelming but it was actually quite easy to follow and understand everything that was going on. I was also pretty grateful since I was equally curious about how both stories end. Every character created was very detailed and developed very well. They each had a very unique role and I was fascinated by who they were inside and outside the story. Delilah is such a treasure. I was really able to connect with her right away and loved her passion and dedication. I also loved the ridiculously charming way that she felt about a character in a book. I mean books aren't real, you and me both know this, and yet I still think and dream and wonder what would happen if they were. In an odd sort of way, Delilah represents that side to readers who still believe in make-believe, in magic and true love. Even if it's a character from a story come to life. Oliver was just to adorable for words and I loved the sweet and tender and even amusing way that these two felt about one another. Understanding and wanting what the other wants. I'm thinking this may not be a story for every reader. I'll admit, it is a little far fetched, but I for one really enjoyed this story for what it was. A beautifully told fairy tale with inspiring characters and a mesmerizing world. It ignited that passion I have for the written world and took it one step further. It made me fantasize what it would be like to fall in love and achieve happily ever after with a character written in one of my favorite stories. This is the stuff that makes reading what it is. It takes you away from your own reality and dares you to believe. If only, for just a short while. Bravo! This review and more can be seen at; WinterHaven Books. ...more A finished unsolicited copy was provided by the publisher for review. Not many books have the white paper with colored ink, but I\u2019m so glad this one does because the illustrations are gorgeous. There are also little silhouettes scattered through out the pages to identify important characters, scenes and plot. I love how the colours and typeface are different when it changes from Oliver\u2019s viewpoint to Delilah\u2019s viewpoint. I love how Oliver wants to be something more than just an actor in a book. He A finished unsolicited copy was provided by the publisher for review. Not many books have the white paper with colored ink, but I\u2019m so glad this one does because the illustrations are gorgeous. There are also little silhouettes scattered through out the pages to identify important characters, scenes and plot. I love how the colours and typeface are different when it changes from Oliver\u2019s viewpoint to Delilah\u2019s viewpoint. I love how Oliver wants to be something more than just an actor in a book. He wants to make a difference. To be extraordinary, not ordinary were his words. I love Delilah\u2019s character too. She is a little bit of a loner and doesn\u2019t seems to fit in anywhere, except in her world of books. Most bookworms can relate. I also laughed out loud whenever she would hurt the most popular girl in school, not on purpose, but by accident. Not that the mean girl didn\u2019t deserve it lol. What an imaginative plot. I love the idea of a characters coming to life and wanting to live in reality. It\u2019s easy to devour this book in one sitting. You want to know if Oliver gets out in the end! And if their love is true as well. Will Delilah do everything in her power to help him? Find out in the mother/daughter duo of Jodi Picoult and Samanta Van Leer. I really hope they write more books together because it\u2019s such a cute book. ...more I hate not finishing books. It kills me not to finish a book, no matter how many issues I may have with it. That said, I could not stomach sitting through all of Between the Lines. I did not have it in me. I was so eager to read it, too. I love any take on fairytales. I love retellings, re-workings, anything. I love the television show Once Upon a Time. I. Love. Fairytales. When I saw that this was about fairytales, I was excited to read this book. A few chapters in, however, I knew it was going I hate not finishing books. It kills me not to finish a book, no matter how many issues I may have with it. That said, I could not stomach sitting through all of Between the Lines. I did not have it in me. I was so eager to read it, too. I love any take on fairytales. I love retellings, re-workings, anything. I love the television show Once Upon a Time. I. Love. Fairytales. When I saw that this was about fairytales, I was excited to read this book. A few chapters in, however, I knew it was going to be a daunting task to finish. First of all, the different fonts that they use for different POV chapters is ridiculous. I've seen soup cans with better font choices. I hope it was changed to different fonts for the final product because it was terrible. It seemed like a third grader choose the different fonts that were used. Then there is Oliver, our hero, our protagonist, our love-interest. He quite literally only has one flaw. One. He has no courage but apparently he is 100% perfect in every other way. I get it, Delilah, you think Oliver here is perfect. Wonderful. A-ma-zing. Handome. Hot. Etc. I lost track at how many times she described how attractive Oliver is. It was nauseating. He also had no depth. For a hero, he felt very flat. Everyone in this novel felt very flat and underwhelming to me. Though, a younger audience might not mind that he lacks depth and only has one flaw. The story had potential. Really, it did. However, everything just felt so flat. If I had to pick one word to describe this book it would be that. Or fluffy. Despite all of that, it was still nicely written. Sometimes I thought that maybe this book wouldn't have been published at all if it wasn't for Jodi's name attached but for her first novel, Samantha did a decent job. Maybe I'm too old for this book. That's something I never thought I would say. Especially since I love YA books. This book might be more suited for middle school children as opposed to the young adults it's aimed at. It's cute, it's fluffy, it's entertaining if you're not looking for much else and it's a fun, fast read; just what middle schoolers are probably looking for. ...more I devoured this book! I was first planning to purchase this book as a NOOKbook, but when I opened it up at the store, I just had to buy the physical copy. The full-paged colored illustrations, the pictures placed beautifully around the pages, and different fonts and colors made this book so pretty. Normally you see books with amazing covers, but this was just all-around gorgeous! I read this in about three hours. I wasn't sure what to expect, because I hadn't ever read the synopsis on it before. I devoured this book! I was first planning to purchase this book as a NOOKbook, but when I opened it up at the store, I just had to buy the physical copy. The full-paged colored illustrations, the pictures placed beautifully around the pages, and different fonts and colors made this book so pretty. Normally you see books with amazing covers, but this was just all-around gorgeous! I read this in about three hours. I wasn't sure what to expect, because I hadn't ever read the synopsis on it before. I was surprised when I found that it had lots of humor as well as romance and fantasy. The writing style was one of the things that I loved most. At first it starts with a small part of the actual fairytale. Then it jumps perspectives to Oliver, who is in the fairytale as an actor. After his section is done it jumps to Delilah, the reader of Oliver's story. Sorry if that sounds confusing, it really isn't that confusing if you're reading it. This book has many parallels to the middle-grade book Inkheart by Cornilia Funke, but I found that I enjoyed this one more. It involves the same type of plot, where fairytale characters enter the real world, as well as the way they both ended were really similar. This was a bit more moderized and a little more YA. My favorite character had to be Oliver. He was always being funny and made the book a light, enjoyable read. (The illustrations of him are really pretty, too!) He was my favorite both in and out of the fairytale world. Overall, I loved it. It was a great fresh read for YA fantasy. A cute romance! ...more 1,5 stars \u201cREAL FAIRY TALES are not for the fainthearted. Children get eaten by witches and chased by wolves; women fall into comas and are tortured by evil relatives. Somehow all that pain and suffering is worthwhile, though, when it leads to the ending: happily ever after. Suddenly it no longer matters if you got a B- on your midterm in French or you\u2019re the only girl in the school who doesn\u2019t have a date for the spring formal. Happily ever after trumps everything.But what if ever after could c 1,5 stars \u201cREAL FAIRY TALES are not for the fainthearted. Children get eaten by witches and chased by wolves; women fall into comas and are tortured by evil relatives. Somehow all that pain and suffering is worthwhile, though, when it leads to the ending: happily ever after. Suddenly it no longer matters if you got a B- on your midterm in French or you\u2019re the only girl in the school who doesn\u2019t have a date for the spring formal. Happily ever after trumps everything.But what if ever after could change?\u201d So this is a cool concept\u2026 that doesnt make any sense. Story is simple; one day Delilah finds out she the Prince Charming of the little fairy tale she was obsessed with reading is real. Kinda. It turn out that the act of reading the book is just its characters performing a play, over and over\u2026 but those characters still have dreams, hopes, wishes, and aspirations beyond the roles they act out on a daily basis for the reader. Still, everyone in the book seems to be perfectly happy with the fact they are part of the story; that they are enslaved into doing and saying the same things over and over, like in a play that gets performed for eternity. Everyone except Oliver. Oliver desperately wants to get out of his book. So when one day he talks to Delilah and she hears his cry for help their journey to get Oliver out of the book begins. Cool, right? Ummm, no. Not cool at all cause even though the idea is cool the execution was really poor. I think the part of the problem is this book was aimed at younger YA audiences. It's marketed as a YA, when it really feels more like an MG which is why I wasn't expecting what I got. I was expecting something more serious, I guess. I didnt expect something super intense, but a bit more realistic than a fairy tale. Instead, it felt like I was reading a child's fairy tale but with teenagers I didnt even give a shit about. Overall; It's a cute and pleasant story that failed to wow me. The book started off strong, was intriguing enough to make me want to finish it, but it's ending was disappointing and felt contrived. Plus, the characters were not compelling and werent fleshed out at all. They lacked depth and felt very flat. And the story unfortunately lacked so many answers. Heck, it explained nothing. Everything happens in the story is too convenient and made me roll my eyes countless times. The development of Oliver and Delilah's relationship sucked big time too. One minute, they bonded over losing a parent and the next one they were in luv. Even worse, that's not the only WTF in this story. There were a few scenes truly annoyed me and made me want to burn this book in a oven. For example there is this part where the mermaids say they dislike men, the MC automatically thinks \"Wow, these mermaids are actual hardcore feminists'' And this logic my friend is exactly what the fuck is wrong with this world. Woman or people in general thinking feminism is man hating. Feminism is believing in equality for both sexes, OK?! UGGGHHH. *resists temptation to bash head against wall* To clear things, the mermaids are not feminists in this story. They just dont want to be in relationships and they think poorly of men they meet. Cause you know, they are mermaids. DUH. Another big WTF I had with the story was its ending. I dont want to spoil anything but while I was reading the last couple of chapters I was laughing my ass off. You must be fucking kidding with me. I AM NOT BUY\u0130NG THAT SHIT. I dont care how depressed you were Edgar. I am not buying what happened. It\u2019s morally wrong. It\u2019s unrealistic. It makes me want to burn this book or throw it out of window. I'm so done with this book. THANK GOD. Nobody can force me to read the sequel aka Off the Page . Nobody. ...more Oh LAWD, was that cheesy. That was one of the most corny books I've ever read. Excuse me, review to be written after I've stopped vomiting rainbows and sunshine. Oliver is a prince, trapped inside the same fairytale and desperate to get out. When Delilah picks up the book, she falls in love with the story...and with Oliver. She's also the only one who can hear him. The two try every way possible to get Oliver out of the fairytale, but nothing works. How can they be together when Oliver is only ink Oh LAWD, was that cheesy. That was one of the most corny books I've ever read. Excuse me, review to be written after I've stopped vomiting rainbows and sunshine. Oliver is a prince, trapped inside the same fairytale and desperate to get out. When Delilah picks up the book, she falls in love with the story...and with Oliver. She's also the only one who can hear him. The two try every way possible to get Oliver out of the fairytale, but nothing works. How can they be together when Oliver is only ink on a page? I almost gave up this book several times. The fact that I had already read nearly half of it kept me reading, forcing myself to finish. It was cute. I liked the idea that the characters from our stories live on in the book after we close it. Like they were actors in a big movie that they had to play over and over again. But it also reminded me a lot of Inkheart . Inkheart is about book characters who come to life out of a book (called Inkheart , just like the title of the actual book) and a girl has to change the ending to save her family and herself. Between the Lines is about book characters who come to life inside the book (called Between the Lines . Again, the same concept) and a girl has to change the ending to save Oliver. (Okay, it's actually not Delilah, but I'm not gonna spoil that) They're both completely different stories, but those similarities veer dangerously close to copycat material. The writing wasn't great. It was elementary, at best. I mean, I can write better than this. The 'love' between Oliver and Delilah was kind of...weird. I don't know, maybe because for most of the book he was the size of half a page. I was a little pissed off about the ending. I didn't notice it when I finished at first, but after I thought about it, it miffed me a bit. But I won't get into that because I don't wanna spoil anything for those who still want to read it themselves and make their own assumption. If I could summarize this book in three words, they'd be; 1. Cute 2. Corny 3. A little bit Copycat ...more I really loved how the story was told, with a mixture of the actual fairy tale, 'Between the Lines' and then from both Oliver and Delilah's perspective. It was immersive and I definitely found myself invested in their romance. The moral we can get from this is try, try, try again, because the lovers try at least six different ways to get Oliver out of the book, and nothing seems to work until it does. I may have liked it more than I normally would've, because of all the 'Inkheart' feels it was g I really loved how the story was told, with a mixture of the actual fairy tale, 'Between the Lines' and then from both Oliver and Delilah's perspective. It was immersive and I definitely found myself invested in their romance. The moral we can get from this is try, try, try again, because the lovers try at least six different ways to get Oliver out of the book, and nothing seems to work until it does. I may have liked it more than I normally would've, because of all the 'Inkheart' feels it was giving me. Yeah, this book definitely could have done with Capricorn and Dustfinger. Excuse me, I'll just be reading 'Inkheart' for the seventeenth time. ...more Oh my goodness, ALL OF THE STARS FOR THIS BOOK!! Honestly, this is one of my new all-time favorite books, I wouldn't change anything about it. It was so perfect!! <3 I'm not going to write a long review, but... just read it. Please. It's seriously perfect, and I am now going to be telling everybody that I know to just buy it and read it, because it will truly touch your life. So so soo good. :') I'm so excited to start the sequel/companion novel, Off The Page! I will be starting it... probably Oh my goodness, ALL OF THE STARS FOR THIS BOOK!! Honestly, this is one of my new all-time favorite books, I wouldn't change anything about it. It was so perfect!! <3 I'm not going to write a long review, but... just read it. Please. It's seriously perfect, and I am now going to be telling everybody that I know to just buy it and read it, because it will truly touch your life. So so soo good. :') I'm so excited to start the sequel/companion novel, Off The Page! I will be starting it... probably right now. ...more This book was so so so neat and the writing was great and I couldn't put it down, but as good as the idea sounded in the synopsis, the actual story was kind of silly. Regardless, I still enjoyed it although the main character was annoying and the characters' actions sometimes weren't very believable. This was a really really REALLY cute book. Enjoyed it immensely. I only wish it would actually happen. To me. I want an Oliver. Specifically one named William Herondale or Daemon Black. View this review on my blog: thatgirlbookworm I have to say, my rating for this one surprised me. It's no secret that Jodi Picoult is one of, if not my favorite author. I now own 21 of her books and my collection is only growing from here. But this one was not cutting it for me. 60% through the book this was still only a 2.5/5 star book for me. But it got so much better near the end and improved and I really enjoyed it to the point where it became a 4 star book. This book had a GREAT concept. It View this review on my blog: thatgirlbookworm I have to say, my rating for this one surprised me. It's no secret that Jodi Picoult is one of, if not my favorite author. I now own 21 of her books and my collection is only growing from here. But this one was not cutting it for me. 60% through the book this was still only a 2.5/5 star book for me. But it got so much better near the end and improved and I really enjoyed it to the point where it became a 4 star book. This book had a GREAT concept. It follows a character named Oliver and a character named Delilah. Delilah is reading a fairy tale book when one day the character inside her book reaches out to her for help. What we don't know is that characters in books have actual lives whey the book is closed and Oliver has spent his entire existence wanting to be outside the book. The novel follows them and also there are chapters of the actual fairy tale in the book (which were my favorite chapters) I will say, as much as I loved the plot, I DO think that this concept could have been done better by someone else. Jodi Picoult is mainly an adult fiction writer. That's not to say she can't write young adult/middle grade books, I mean I know her daughter worked with her, but I just don't think this is the genre I would tell her to stick with. There were a lot of really cheesy and unbelievable moments that I just felt like the book could have done without. As well, I realize fairy tales ALWAYS have insta love and this book is meant to be read like a fairy tale, but the insta love was just not well done in my opinion in this one. Oliver is a really great character. Actually Oliver's world inside the book with Frump and stuff were just the best parts. I loved all the characters. But Delilah was where the characters fell flat for me. She was really juvenile for a teenager. Just immature and young and extremely annoying. She gets mad at her mom because her mom is worried about her, but girl you're talking to a novel, of course she's going to worry. She also gets mad that other people can't hear Oliver but like again no one really expects a novel to talk to them so of course they can't hear him. She was just senseless for a character and I was never rooting for her. Also the fact that she just dumps everyone in her life for a boy really disgusts me but that's just something that bothers me in general in life so I just gravitated towards anger when she did this. Overall enjoyable. Best book ever? Definitely not. But cute, fun and easy to read. I can definitely see the appeal for little kids (and adults) who like fairy tales and they'd probably really enjoy this. ...more Actual Rating: 4.65 Star! Between The Lines is such a fun, light-hearted and feel good story. Many people have given this book poor reviews, but I think it's simply because the story wasn't intended for them. Since I actually read the synopsis of this book beforeI read it, I knew this was a YA novel written by Jodi Picoult and her daughter. This book is a sweet middle-grade contemporary romance with inklings of magical realism. It pays homage to fairytales, with some clever interpretations of how Actual Rating: 4.65 Star! Between The Lines is such a fun, light-hearted and feel good story. Many people have given this book poor reviews, but I think it's simply because the story wasn't intended for them. Since I actually read the synopsis of this book beforeI read it, I knew this was a YA novel written by Jodi Picoult and her daughter. This book is a sweet middle-grade contemporary romance with inklings of magical realism. It pays homage to fairytales, with some clever interpretations of how stories live within out hearts and minds. It was a quick read, lacking much in the way of depth or character development. Usually books about books tend to be about people from the real world being sucked into the storybook to fulfil their destiny. Well, Between the Lines flips that around. Oliver is a prince, and the star of his story, but he's bored. He's sick of acting out the same story over and over. Then one day someone finally hears his pleas. Delilah loves to lose herself inside the pages of books, and feels a particularly strong connection to Oliver. At first, Delilah thinks she's going crazy, but eventually she agrees to help the prince escape his story. I kind of adored Between the Lines. It's ridiculously cute and fun, but at times it did read a bit young. Delilah is 15 and a bit immature, so that probably had something to do with it. There's also a lot of corny jokes that are so bad that they're funny. And we get chapters from Oliver's story, which was a nice addition, but they were pages from a childrens' book, so of course that added to the young feel. The story is written from Deliliah's point of view, as well as from Prince Oliver's point of view, and is also told from a narrative fairy tale perspective. I found the story to be delightful and entertaining, and everything you would imagine a YA fairy tale to be. I loved the interaction between Deliliah and Oliver as they plotted and planned trying to figure out a way to get Oliver out of the book, as well as all the adventure that took place in the process of trying to make this happen. All in all, Between The Lines is a brilliant work of fiction with a provocative and engaging theme: life is but a story and the happy ending we get (and whether we'll get it at all) is entirely up to us. Nothing is set in stone. We hold the power to shape our future, all it takes is just a little bit of faith and persistence. To me, Between the Lines is a book with a timeless appeal, and one that I will be re-reading time and time again. ** Review updated on August 3rd, 2015 ...more 4/5 Between the Lines + Interesting premise, cutesy but it definitely had me thinking. + Issues of abandonment, separation, anxiety and social demise. + The storybook characters vs. the \"real life\" characters - their personalities and the idea that there's more than meets the readers' eyes. +++ Illustrations. This instantly gets a book brownie points. Every single one of them brings more to the story and enhances the experience rather than hinders or distracts. It's a book about a fairytale - what be 4/5 Between the Lines + Interesting premise, cutesy but it definitely had me thinking. + Issues of abandonment, separation, anxiety and social demise. + The storybook characters vs. the \"real life\" characters - their personalities and the idea that there's more than meets the readers' eyes. +++ Illustrations. This instantly gets a book brownie points. Every single one of them brings more to the story and enhances the experience rather than hinders or distracts. It's a book about a fairytale - what better way to really drive that home than include famed illustrations? We're even served a bit of variety. Besides full-paged, delicately drawn and coloured fairytale-esque pictures that are very rip-out-of-the-book-stick-it-on-your-wall tempting, we have silhouettes and tiny pictures strewn throughout. This is one of those books that need to be READ and not listened to via audiobook. + Perspectives. In essence, we are granted three: the girl, the guy and the storybook. It's a nice way to break up the action and for the most part the transitions felt seamless. ~ A happy ending. It's like the anti-fairytale ending, but it still is a happily ever after kind of ending. - I felt like Oliver's character needed more oomph. All I know about him is that he's a storybook character that wants to get out. Maybe that's all there really is to him. I'm not sure how this could have been bettered, since all he's even known is that storybook. I guess what I wanted was something of a reason for US to fall in love with him. I understand why Delilah did, but why should WE care? Maybe it's just me. Now I have to convert all this into a review. Break time! Haha. Final review tk. ...more I wanted to love this book. Hell, I wanted to adore it. It has gorgeous pictures and silhouettes and just the entire lay-out is incredible. Also Jodi Picoult's name is quite a known one, and not for the worst. The fact that she had written it with her daughter only made me more interested, as well as an interesting premise: what happens to the characters when you close a book. BUT GUESS WHAT: IT WAS POORLY EXECUTED! The Plot: At the beginning, I was interested in how the story was going, as you g I wanted to love this book. Hell, I wanted to adore it. It has gorgeous pictures and silhouettes and just the entire lay-out is incredible. Also Jodi Picoult's name is quite a known one, and not for the worst. The fact that she had written it with her daughter only made me more interested, as well as an interesting premise: what happens to the characters when you close a book. BUT GUESS WHAT: IT WAS POORLY EXECUTED! The Plot: At the beginning, I was interested in how the story was going, as you get two POV's as well as the original fairy tale that they talk about in the book. But that ends. The entire plot focuses on the 15 year old Delilah who is a loner (but not totally, I'll get to that) on her high school and obsessed with this fairy tale she found in the library. Then all of a sudden, she finds out that she can talk to the prince in the fairy tale: Oliver, and he to her. And he wants to lead a real life, not the one forced upon him, kinda like an actor. Then we've got two main plot points: 1 \"OMG WE'RE IN LOVE\" and 2 \"OMG WE NEED TO GET OLIVER OUT OF THE BOOK. O, that's not true: POINT TWO IS REPEATED ONLY TWO BILLION TIMES! So many plans are tried out all with the same basic premise, so that at the end you don't even get them anymore and you don't even give a shit anymore when it almost goes right, AND THEN IT DOESN'T. AGAIN. (view spoiler) [ And the end solution you don't even get to see. Like, why? It's just too weird (hide spoiler) ] . Basic Problem: too much repetition, nobody gives a shit. The Characters: Delilah is a terrible person with no personality aside from having an absent dad and a crush on a fictional character. No personality. No anything. She has the 'obliged best friend, also a weirdo' of whom I've already forgotten the name (and I finished the book this afternoon), WHO SHE TREATS LIKE SHIT. Delilah's school situation is such a Mean Girls situation, that it's not even realistic. Just stereotypes that are so stereotypical that they just make you laugh. She only cares for herself and when the aforementioned best friend comes to Delilah because she had problems herself, DELILAH DOES NOTHING, BECAUSE SHE ONLY WANTS TO TALK WITH THE PRINCE. And after that ridiculous fight, the BFF FORGIVES HER IN 2 SECONDS, after which Delilah asks her for A 4 HOUR RIDE WHILE THE BFF HASN'T GOT A LICENCE. AND THE BFF DOES IT ANYWAY. Delilah also doesn't give a shit that her mom worries that she suddenly leaves while her mom thinks she's got a concussion and just leaves a damn 'don't worry' note. The selfish, insta-love-struck bitch. Oliver is the perfect prince, insta-love love interest with again NO PERSONALITY. The 'character' he plays in the book has more personality. He wants a real life, but doesn't know WHAT A SANDWICH IS AND HE DOES KNOW WHAT A FIRE EXTINGUISHER IS! Then we got the rest of the characters in 'the real world' that are all stereotypical, plain stupid and just there when they are necessary. The fairy tale characters are just the result of random brainstorming. We've got a dog that is a guy that's a dog, who is Oliver's sidekick. The dumb damsel in distress that crushes on the prince, but is just an idiot. The forced love triangle that isn't ever a threat to the insta-love. AND THEN WE GOT THE DOG THAT CRUSHES ON THE PRINCESS! I don't even have words for the idiocy of that whatsoever. I'm not even going to talk about some of the other characters, except the vain horse that only worries if his butt is too big. I'm not kidding, he talks... about his butt... The writing is simple, juvenile, not pretty or unique at all. I really can't see how such a praised author as Jodi Picoult can write so poorly, so I presume that is the work of her daughter, who's a junior in high school or Picoult's feeling of 'needing to write easily for a YA audience'. Otherwise I wouldn't be able to explain it. I am let down. I want to love such a beautifully designed book, but the actual book was just a poorly written, for younger audiences than YA written, story, with too disastrous to be true events and solutions, useless characters and a romance that is unbelievable, insta-love-y between two characters severely lacking in any form of personality. 1,5 out of 5 stars for being terrible but easy to read. ...more Delilah is 15 years old. Unlike the other girls in her school, she is unpopular and addicted to a fairytale called Between The Lines . She dislikes suprises and enjoys the comfort of believing in a happy ending. When Oliver, a Prince in the fairytale speaks to her, Delilah must choose whether promise to help Oliver escape from the fairytale, even if it's impossible. Jodi Picoult is an author I would not normally read, however this book is very different from her previous works. Although, in some w Delilah is 15 years old. Unlike the other girls in her school, she is unpopular and addicted to a fairytale called Between The Lines . She dislikes suprises and enjoys the comfort of believing in a happy ending. When Oliver, a Prince in the fairytale speaks to her, Delilah must choose whether promise to help Oliver escape from the fairytale, even if it's impossible. Jodi Picoult is an author I would not normally read, however this book is very different from her previous works. Although, in some ways, similar to the basics of Inkheart, Between The Lines has a unique plot which quickly captivates the audience and is extremely enjoyable to read. The ending was unpredictable until a couple of chapters before it happens, which to me made the book more interesting as I had to keep guessing at what could happen next. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good book with a hint of fantasy and an undertone of romance. I feel the character's personalities were well chosen and consistant throughout although they had some very predictable traits. For example, Delilah was unpopular as well as a straight A student which is often the case in many books, while Oliver had a somewhat lonely side to him even though he could live a happily ever after. Overall though I feel that the personalities fitted the characters and brought them to life so that they were noticable but not overpowering so that the reader was able to sypathise with the other characters in the book too. :D Overall I think that the book was a great read! However the story switched between the fairytale and the main storyline which, at times, confused me a little when I first started reading the book but you are quickly able to get used to it. I would happily read this book again in the future as it is a wonderful book, with fantastic characters and a great plot line! :D ...more This book was so freaking cute. I ate it up. This book felt more like a middle grade book due to some of the immaturity of the characters, but I still enjoyed it! I love fairytales, and this book fed into my obsession. I felt like I was living out one of my childhood dreams. This book put a smile on my face, and I am so excited to read the next book. 4 / 5 Fangs<---C>Jodi Picoult</---C>", "Title": "Between the Lines"},
