{"Comments": "Father Lawrence is a complex protagonist: an intellectual man of the cloth with an unwavering faith in God along with a daunting grasp of physics, logic and philosophy. In graceful exposition here is how the modest monk views himself: \"I am an imperfect man living in an imperfect world, trying to weave through the chaotic interactions of semi-causal events with linear logic,<---M> contradictory emotions</---M>, dialectic wisdom, and mortal integrity. On a dark night, I would search Polaris to guide me, but o Father Lawrence is a complex protagonist: an intellectual man of the cloth with an unwavering faith in God along with a daunting grasp of physics, logic and philosophy. In graceful exposition here is how the modest monk views himself: \"I am an imperfect man living in an imperfect world, trying to weave through the chaotic interactions of semi-causal events with linear logic, contradictory emotions, dialectic wisdom, and mortal integrity. On a dark night, I would search Polaris to guide me, but on life\u2019s journey only the internal North Star could lead to that instant when eternity freezes time.\" The priest's professional work draws him into a complex series of crimes committed by a preacher named Jim Whitfield who is the antagonist representing penultimate evil -- a devil who cannot be killed as he brings waves of misery through the epic deceit upon which he immensely profits. The battle beyond good and evil between the priest and the preacher reminded me of the battle between Crucifer and the teacher in Alexander Theroux's brilliant novel, \"Darconville's Cat.\" In becoming invested in his drive to overcome this satanic force, Father Lawrence understands that his own inherent goodness and worth may become diminished and in the process he risks becoming more like the evil that he seeks to overcome. The priest yearns through a shift in the logic of space and time to discover an oasis in a grain of sand and so he finds himself dealing with life's grand existential questions on the shore of Thoreau's Walden Pond in Concord: \"I had gone to meditate at Walden Pond. That morning,under the rising sun, the water sang and danced to the rhythm of the morning breeze, and the ripples crisscrossed to weave a lattice of light. The clouds drifted in the stream of air. No one else to taint the birches or to corrupt the morning or to smear the lark\u2019s melody.<---F> I chanted Veni Creator Spiritus</---F>. Peace. Yet, a squall-laden peace. I wanted to search for peace, for kindness, for love in hypocrisy\u2019s rubbles but the desert had opened its arms. I would enter, not hesitating, and choke on the dry air and collapse under the sandstorm. And yet, among the sand dunes rippling into the horizon would sprout an oasis if I could endure and embrace the desert as it had me. These hands and feet of flesh and bone, this heart of fear and hunger, under the sun and in the sand, to seize the fleeting peace at Walden Pond.\" <---A>Leonard Seet</---A>'s novel is about polar opposites and the dynamics of their conflicts and how these dynamics drive the laws of physics of a compelling, indeed rivetting, story line. Leonard Seet has left no literary devices on the table to narrate his tale: people simply aren't who they appear to be, nothing is as it seems, what's done isn't always really done. As much as I enjoyed this story line of Leonard Seet, I was enthralled by the pure beauty of the writing among all the plot points. The scintillating writing is elegant, pure, grownup, originally cast, heartfelt, intelligent: there are dozens of examples of this beauty and here a just a few of the dozen passages that I read and re-read because they were so artfully crafted. Check out this poetic rhapsody from the priest: \"Woe and joy to mortals who have tasted heaven, who have seen the dark night, who have encountered THOU. No eyes could gaze the midday sun; no ears could listen to the Siren\u2019s songs; no hands could touch the stove flame. But the brilliance, the sweetness, the warmth.\" And this brilliant bit of poetic science: \"Bright night surfing upon the crest of a probability wave by a Fourier transform reached Hilbert space the wilderness beyond existence the phantom space of mathematics the mirror world where a kick there would cause a jerk here through sinusoidal ripples in the uncertainty between yes and no space-time emerged from nothing to exist for a million years before returning to the void for another eternity. In the horizon of the next galaxy a positron and an electron mated and gave birth in annihilation to twin photons streaking at the speed of light toward opposite infinities to reencounter at the other pole of the space-time hydrosphere birth life decay death the cosmic cycle beyond space-time beyond matter-energy beyond I-thou beyond Alpha and Omega.\" The writing is simply breath-taking: Seet gives you credit for being a thinking person, a serious reader, a person of substance and high intelligence. As a Bostonian I revelled in the finely wrought stagecraft of the settings there. This literary novel is layered so that it can be enjoyed by those who simply want a good story and yet it satisfies those who want a book written poetically with substance and a style that is grown-up and intellectualy complex enough to open new intellectual avenues. If you prefer intelligently crafted novels, then do yourself a favor and by all means read this unforgetable novel by Leonard Seet: the writing is to die for. ...more <+++>Meditation on Space-Time</+++> is a philosophical novel where the quantum mechanical worldview seeps into everyday life. The Uncertainty Principal, and especially the Many-World Interpretation, colors Father Lawrence\u2019s perception of reality. A world of possibilities at every moment, where the outcome follows stochastic processes rather than deterministic laws. \u201cAt the ledge of each instant facing the chasm between one moment and the next, four billion souls awaited renewal and an infinite number of po <+++>Meditation on Space-Time</+++> is a philosophical novel where the quantum mechanical worldview seeps into everyday life. The Uncertainty Principal, and especially the Many-World Interpretation, colors Father Lawrence\u2019s perception of reality. A world of possibilities at every moment, where the outcome follows stochastic processes rather than deterministic laws. \u201cAt the ledge of each instant facing the chasm between one moment and the next, four billion souls awaited renewal and an infinite number of possible worlds anticipated birth. Of all the possible worlds, only one would come to be; and yet an infinite number would open up for the next instant.\u201d But the priest also struggles between the religious life of doctrine and rites and the spiritual life of creativity and mystery, ultimately choosing the latter by renouncing his vow. Like Thomas Merton, he refuses to slaughter his intellect in the name of piety and religiosity. Father Lawrence must tread through the desert of betrayals and losses to reach the oasis of friendship and enlightenment. And enlightenment is what he seeks rather than perfection\u2014for Ichiro\u2014and happiness\u2014for Camellia. In the end, he must accept the loss of his best friend and carry the pain on his solitary journey toward enlightenment, or just old age. Meditation on Space-Time is a novel of love and friendship, of good versus evil and of journeys taken. I recommend it for those who reflect such journeys. The lyrical prose that threads through the characters and their secrets is beautiful and provocative. A memorable novel. ...more On an August evening, while Father Lawrence was hearing a stranger\u2019s confession, he dreamed of probability waves, black holes and temporal loops. He had gone to Gilead to look for his missing friend Camellia, not to listen to this penitent\u2019s vices: seducing women, framing rivals, and laundering church-funds. And the penitent escaped before Lawrence could reveal the other\u2019s identity. But soon he would discover the link between this man and Camellia. When he returned to Boston and found out Camell On an August evening, while Father Lawrence was hearing a stranger\u2019s confession, he dreamed of probability waves, black holes and temporal loops. He had gone to Gilead to look for his missing friend Camellia, not to listen to this penitent\u2019s vices: seducing women, framing rivals, and laundering church-funds. And the penitent escaped before Lawrence could reveal the other\u2019s identity. But soon he would discover the link between this man and Camellia. When he returned to Boston and found out Camellia was pregnant with Jim\u2019s child, he knew the time to play ostrich was over and he must relinquish solitude and prayer. But ever since the girl whom he had counseled, committed suicide, he preferred distancing himself from other lives. And ever since falling out with his best friend, he preferred contemplating the duality of space-time to sorting out his own joy and grief and love and hatred. Only when he discovered the child\u2019s true identity did his tongue tasted evil. After locking himself in his cabin for days, he decided to renounce his vow and had to learn to equate a dollar with a cheeseburger. He left the monastery ready to battle Jim Whitfield. On the way to Gilead, he bought a gun at a Virginia gun show without knowing how to load the magazine. He would discover the hidden identities behind each face and the secrets inside Camellia\u2019s heart, and the liaison between the villain and her. And on a rainy night in Gilead\u2019s local park, he held the gun in his pocket and stared into another gun\u2019s barrel and he contemplated death rather than space-time. Three shots would thunder through the air and a man would fall into the stream\u2026 Either mercy or justice; either salvation or friendship. Either choice: a flawed solution for a fallen man in a broken world. Leonard Seet, who wrote The Spiritual Life and understood monasticism and mysticism, portrays Lawrence as a cross between the intellectual and aloft Thomas Merton and the sensitive and reflective Henri Nouwen and detailed the movements of the mind and heart. A monk to rival Brother William in Umberto Eco\u2019s The Name of the Rose. If you think monks are dull, think again. The language in Meditation on Space-Time reflects Lawrence\u2019s interweaving thoughts and entangling emotions. The novel reads like a mystery as Lawrence sought to outwit his archenemy Jim Whitfield and the Ponzi schemer Donald Larsen and unraveled secrets along the way. Ichiro\u2019s obsession with death as the path toward immortality contrasts with Lawrence\u2019s sober spirituality. Father Jones the whiskey priest and Edgar Cummingham the salesman-like mortician are memorable characters. Meditation on Space-Time, a spiritual gem among literary novels, challenges the reader\u2019s mind and heart. Thoughtful, touching, haunting, and shocking. For readers who, while sifting through clues to the characters\u2019 true identities and hidden agendas, would eat up the hero\u2019s every morsel of laughter and tear as if each were bittersweet chocolate. ...more Meditation on Space-Time is a moral and philosophical novel about good and evil, but more specifically about greed and the lust for power. Donald Larsen cheats the congregation of their money and Pastor Jim Whitfield helps him and along the way takes a share of the spoils. Edgar the Mortician swindles his customers by buying imitation salmon and Champagne and recycles the plots for new burials. Leonard Seet hints the theme of greed when in the first chapter, Father Lawrence looks into the distan Meditation on Space-Time is a moral and philosophical novel about good and evil, but more specifically about greed and the lust for power. Donald Larsen cheats the congregation of their money and Pastor Jim Whitfield helps him and along the way takes a share of the spoils. Edgar the Mortician swindles his customers by buying imitation salmon and Champagne and recycles the plots for new burials. Leonard Seet hints the theme of greed when in the first chapter, Father Lawrence looks into the distant night at the neon glow above Memphis. And also when he stops by a coffee shop and hears how the young couple plans to default on their mortgage payment and skip town. Jim Whifield seduces the women to demonstrate his power over them, as it is appearance with Daisy. And as the church's minister, he enforces his power over them, as evident with the Donald Larsen Financial Night and his manipulation of Jackson and Chandler. But the power of the story comes through Seet's writing as he demonstrates he is a master of the prose. To wit, his poetic imagery: \"When Ichiro went to Paris to study music, I awaited a new dawn of morning clouds and chirping orioles, a new Ionian piano quartet with contrapuntal melodies and plagal cadence, and a new algebra of linear operators and rotational transforms. I wanted to share in the purple striations, the iambic beat, the structural beauty of a new pseudo-symmetry.\" To read Meditation on Space-Time is to reflect on good and evil but also to enjoy the Seet's lyrical writing. ...more Father Lawrence is too good for this world. Or, Father Lawrence is too high-minded for this world. Or, Father Lawrence is too unearthly for this world. Let the individual reader decide. Myself, I think his troubles began when he stepped off the grounds of the Massachusetts monastery and headed for Tennessee-Gilead to be exact, where no Balm was to be found. Whichever, Gilead certainly opened his mind, expanded his horizons, exposed him.to dishonesty and danger. Father Lawrence really should have Father Lawrence is too good for this world. Or, Father Lawrence is too high-minded for this world. Or, Father Lawrence is too unearthly for this world. Let the individual reader decide. Myself, I think his troubles began when he stepped off the grounds of the Massachusetts monastery and headed for Tennessee-Gilead to be exact, where no Balm was to be found. Whichever, Gilead certainly opened his mind, expanded his horizons, exposed him.to dishonesty and danger. Father Lawrence really should have kept to his monastic meditations. ...more I received this in a Goodreads giveaway. I kind of hated this book. It's not necessarily bad. Parts of it are brilliant. There are bits of dialog and soliloquies that I will probably remember for the rest of my life. Most of it seems clumsy and sloppy. The book begins in medias res. You are dropped into a complicated situation and have a bunch of names thrown at you. By the time I knew what was going on and who these people were I had ceased to care. The two primary woman characters are named Ch I received this in a Goodreads giveaway. I kind of hated this book. It's not necessarily bad. Parts of it are brilliant. There are bits of dialog and soliloquies that I will probably remember for the rest of my life. Most of it seems clumsy and sloppy. The book begins in medias res. You are dropped into a complicated situation and have a bunch of names thrown at you. By the time I knew what was going on and who these people were I had ceased to care. The two primary woman characters are named Charlotte and Camellia. This never stops being confusing. Toward the end of the book, there is a series of increasingly improbable plot twists. At first, they were eye rollingly absurd, the kind of thing you would expect from daytime television. After half a dozen I just wanted the book to end. The main character is a Roman Catholic monk. He is consistently referred to as father, called a priest, even hears some confessions. None of these things would ever happen. The author doesn't seem to know that there is a difference between a monk and a priest. A minimal amount of research could have prevented all of these errors. On a more positive note, This book mainly deals with a narcissistic, womanizing con man and how he hurts everyone around him. This seems like a subject that everyone should be brushing up on right now. My verdict is that Leonard Seet shows potential to become a great writer, but you can skip this book. ...more Hunting for the con man preacher who has ruined his life and the lives of his friends and others, the philosophical monk who narrates this tale explores the limits of love, friendship, hate and the purposes of life's journey. With great wit and episodes of satirical truthfulness, the monk's progress teeters on the edge of infinity, insanity and reality. It's just a lot of fun to read and I'll read it again, because I'm not sure i got it all. I dislike this book. I expected more relations between the plot and the 'quantum physic' instead there are only some quotation and just the title. Even the plot is lousy :the usual fight between good and evil. Sorry maybe i didn'understand the spirit of the book but to me it is too much sophisticated and meanwhile so trivial.<---C>Leonard Seet</---C>", "Title": "Meditation on Space-Time"},
