{"Comments": "yes, i rated my own book.<---F> i am very proud of it</---F>. At first glance, <+++>Goblinheart</+++> is just a fairy tale, albeit with fairies and goblins. In the book's fantasy world, the fairies have a certain set of physical characteristics and roles in the community, and the goblins have a different but complimentary set of characteristics and roles. Perhaps that sounds familiar, or perhaps not. Like The Story of Ferdinand, part of <+++>Goblinheart</+++>'s brilliance is that it can be discussed as an allegory or simply appreciated as a fairy tale. As such, it is an ideal t At first glance,<---M> Goblinheart is just a fairy tale</---M>, albeit with fairies and goblins. In the book's fantasy world, the fairies have a certain set of physical characteristics and roles in the community, and the goblins have a different but complimentary set of characteristics and roles. Perhaps that sounds familiar, or perhaps not. Like The Story of Ferdinand, part of Goblinheart's brilliance is that it can be discussed as an allegory or simply appreciated as a fairy tale. As such, it is an ideal teaching resource that can open discussion about gender issues without being conspicuously controversial or threatening. Yet to those of us with such awareness, each part of Julep's journey to acceptance as a fairy-bodied goblin is apparent as a metaphor for transgender life events: Julep's realization of inner goblin-ness, despair at growing fairy wings, the awkwardness of first tries at passing, creation & usage of adaptive items of clothing for a more comfortable presentation, and the final glimmer of the hope of community acceptance at the book's end. Impressively, throughout the book Axel masterfully avoids the use of gendered pronouns. Not only does this enable readers to relate themselves or others to the main character, but the fact that Goblinheart's avoidance of gendered pronouns does not read as clumsy or forced becomes even more appreciated when trying to discuss the book oneself! It's incredibly difficult in the English language to avoid gendered pronouns when speaking in third person, and certainly that is another item to which gender variant readers and their allies can relate. Goblinheart's artwork is cleverly androgynous and evocative; the illustration of Julep looking back at the growth of wings so dreaded brought this reader to tears. Truly this book takes an important place in the slowly-growing genre of children's literature about transgender issues. ...more I've never read a book before that didn't have gender pronouns in it. You can't apply your preconceived notions about gender to characters if you don't know what gender the characters are. Its really a wonderful story even without that. One of my favorite books ever. My dad wrote this book. He read it to me several times while he was writing it and made changes until I thought it was perfect. Wonderful book...my grandson and I both loved it...met Brett at the NY Fairy Festival...very nice :-) By chance, I happened to go to a poetry reading at Greenfield Community College where <---A>Brett Axel</---A> was the featured poet. I was surprized and delighted to discover that as well as several books of poetry he had a children's book that dealt with gender identity and transgender issues simply and not contraversially, for five and six year olds. I read it and it is truly great. I can't say how great it would have been if the kids I had gone to school with had read this book before they met me. I think By chance, I happened to go to a poetry reading at Greenfield Community College where Brett Axel was the featured poet. I was surprized and delighted to discover that as well as several books of poetry he had a children's book that dealt with gender identity and transgender issues simply and not contraversially, for five and six year olds. I read it and it is truly great. I can't say how great it would have been if the kids I had gone to school with had read this book before they met me. I think I'd have had a much easier time of it because this book, even tho there are no humans in it, completely humanizes people who don't fit the standard molds. ...more This is a great book for helping children to accept and include people who are different from themselves. Because it is about goblins and fairies rather than boys and girls it doesn't ruffle any feathers, but the allagory is obvious even for a small child. The book is beautifully done and amazingly tactful, making what might otherwise be a contraversial and complex subject plain and simple. There would be a lot less bullying and alienation of non-gender conforming children if every child read thi This is a great book for helping children to accept and include people who are different from themselves. Because it is about goblins and fairies rather than boys and girls it doesn't ruffle any feathers, but the allagory is obvious even for a small child. The book is beautifully done and amazingly tactful, making what might otherwise be a contraversial and complex subject plain and simple. There would be a lot less bullying and alienation of non-gender conforming children if every child read this book at 7 years old. ...more Just a delightful story to read to a child. A poignant and somewhat subversive look at transgenderism using \"fairies\" and \"goblins\" in place of male and female; cleverly arranged without any gender-specific pronouns, with a look at an interesting hidden world where goblins and fairies have \"species-specific\" tasks. Written for children but good for adults, as well. I really liked this book. Very cute and as a Kid i would have really needed books like that. I am so glad this book exists. I think every 6 year old should read it. For a kids' book, this book is superb. It makes you wish for more. The artwork is amazing although black and white. The story premiss is excellent and a good message for the kids- they can be whatever they like. If on the inside they feel like someone else, it's ok and they should trust that feeling.Also important to note that it was printed in an exploitation free place. preview here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ymHIUL... I found this gem at the Augusta Lit6erary Arts Festival and brought it home to my children (<---B>6 and 8</---B>) they devoured it! They both loved it so much that I took a moment to read it myself and was really impressed. I hope the characters continue in future adventures, even a tv series. Wonderful illustrations and a terrific story. There's no doubt in my mind that it will be an enduring classic. Reading it so soon after it was released and discovering it before it is huge feels like being a part of history. I loved \"Goblinheart,\" by Brett Axel. I thought this story was beautifully written. The illustrations were beautiful, and they were relevant to the storyline. What a wonderful and moving story for old and young alike to share. I love this book and plan to share it with friends. This is a wonderful book for people from 2-100. My kids adore it, heck, our whole family loves it. The message that you can be who you feel you are inside even if those around you tell you that you must be something else because of how you look is beautifully done. This has been Sandy's most beloved book since the day we brought it home from Fairy Fest. She asks us to read it at least once a week. Best book I've ever seen for instilling good values at an early age: tolerance, acceptance of oneself and others, freedom to be who you are at heart regardless of what people expect of you. My 8 year old is Julep from this book for halloween. This is a sweet, delightful book for boys or girls. I was given a copy of this book in exchange for a fair review. I loved it. It so gently explains the feeling of knowing your something else on the inside. The fear of making yourself standout and what others will think. And shows that life can be like. Everyone I've share this book with loved it as much as I have. One person maybe a bit more.She had been dealing with not \"feeling right\" in her body and the story seemed to have given her a bit of strength. I really hope that this isnt the last we h I was given a copy of this book in exchange for a fair review. I loved it. It so gently explains the feeling of knowing your something else on the inside. The fear of making yourself standout and what others will think. And shows that life can be like. Everyone I've share this book with loved it as much as I have. One person maybe a bit more.She had been dealing with not \"feeling right\" in her body and the story seemed to have given her a bit of strength. I really hope that this isnt the last we hear about Julep (or maybe Tuck :) ). ...more I read this and just cried. I want to hug the author, the artist, the publisher and owner of every store that carries it. Quite possibly my new favorite children's book. A story about a young elf named Julep who grew up feeling like he/she was meant to be a goblin, is great for teaching children to accept people for who they are, not who they \"should\" be. Highly recommended for any parent that wants to raise empathetic children. I will be purchasing multiple copies of this book to distribute to friends and family. In compliance with FTC guidelines, I must disclose that I received this book for free through Goodreads Quite possibly my new favorite children's book. A story about a young elf named Julep who grew up feeling like he/she was meant to be a goblin, is great for teaching children to accept people for who they are, not who they \"should\" be. Highly recommended for any parent that wants to raise empathetic children. I will be purchasing multiple copies of this book to distribute to friends and family. In compliance with FTC guidelines, I must disclose that I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads. ...more I chose to include this story in my text set because it depicts a community that not only respects the Julep\u2019s feelings and manner of self-expression, they accept them. The community demonstrates the importance of providing individuals with respect and support. a favorite of my 6 year old's library. a timeless modern classic Simply endearing. I'd heard the book told from memory and was so impressed by it that I borrowed a copy of it to to use during Children's Time at a church I was serving. I just heard it told again at a Pride service I was leading and decided to order my own copy directly from the author on ebay. It will be a valuable resource and a good friend for many years to come. A bit of a tongue twister because of repetitive usage of names instead of a well placed pronoun. Story line is great for kids- don't let others tell you who you should be. Kind of choppy transitioning between pages toward the end and it ended sort of abruptly in my opinion. Fairies and goblins though- what kid wouldn't be interested in that?! Loved the story and appreciate the tolerance, acceptance, and encouragement that it will bring to people (all ages). Couldn't get over the fact that it hasn't been edited (I'm an English teacher, sorry). I look forward to even owning another copy after it's MUGS errors are addressed and a final, polished copy is available. I do think it's an important book! I would like to own my own copy of this book but can't find it. My local bookstore says they will have it next August when it comes out in paperback. It used to be on bn.com and amazon but there aren't even used copies now.<---C>Brett Axel</---C>", "Title": "Goblinheart"},
