{"Comments": "After reading about 8 of Child's <---C>Jack Reacher</---C> books, I finally found a dud. It started out thrilling,<---M> as expected</---M>, but quickly became almost boring. I can not believe I am typing those words. Reacher's repeatedly doing the same thing, over and over (<---B>returning to a bad place</---B>) was tedious and so unlike our hero's usual behavior. The plot wandered all over the place and the book was too long. I found it impossible to buy into the far-fetched \"conspiracy theory\" with its pathetic \"villains\" and was After reading about 8 of Child's Jack Reacher books, I finally found a dud. It started out thrilling, as expected, but quickly became almost boring. I can not believe I am typing those words. Reacher's repeatedly doing the same thing, over and over (returning to a bad place) was tedious and so unlike our hero's usual behavior. The plot wandered all over the place and the book was too long. I found it impossible to buy into the far-fetched \"conspiracy theory\" with its pathetic \"villains\" and was surprised at Child's foray into political opinion (putting his opinions into Reacher's mouth -which completely changed Reacher's character). This was totally out of place, I thought, and awkward at best. I just hope that Child has not run out of stories and that he will return Reacher to his previous inventive adventures. I only read the Amazon reviews after finishing the book, and must say I am not surprised that there are 190 reviews and the average is an abyssmal 2.<---F>5 stars</---F>. Most of his other books have averaged 4 stars. ...more I'm done with Child after this latest installment. The last few Reacher novels have really dragged and I was hoping this one might revive the series. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Furthermore, the writer decides to jump on a soap box towards the end and throw in random anti-bush/anti-war diatribe. Obviously, this is his right as the creater of the novel but I found it completely ridiculous and hypocritical of his main character. It would be one thing if Child had done this in previous boo I'm done with Child after this latest installment. The last few Reacher novels have really dragged and I was hoping this one might revive the series. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Furthermore, the writer decides to jump on a soap box towards the end and throw in random anti-bush/anti-war diatribe. Obviously, this is his right as the creater of the novel but I found it completely ridiculous and hypocritical of his main character. It would be one thing if Child had done this in previous books (Disclaimer - I've read every Reacher books and have never even smelled a hint of political rants. I could be completely blind though and just missed it...) but it just seemed completely nonsensical. Unless he takes a break from Reacher for a while and writes something else, I'm on haitus. *Edited to correct spelling errors. This from a guy who writes \"wuite\" eloquently. Thanks for pointing them out Grim. Bastard. ...more The least fun Reacher book. Read the others first. Only die hard fans will want to do this one. STORY BRIEF: Reacher is hitchhiking west to California. He happens to be let off in Despair, a small town in Colorado. He stops in the town\u2019s only diner for coffee. The waitress and owner refuse to serve him. The local police arrive and put Reacher in jail. Later he sees the judge who orders him to leave town. The police drive him five miles to the town limit. The nearest town is Hope, another ten miles The least fun Reacher book. Read the others first. Only die hard fans will want to do this one. STORY BRIEF: Reacher is hitchhiking west to California. He happens to be let off in Despair, a small town in Colorado. He stops in the town\u2019s only diner for coffee. The waitress and owner refuse to serve him. The local police arrive and put Reacher in jail. Later he sees the judge who orders him to leave town. The police drive him five miles to the town limit. The nearest town is Hope, another ten miles or so from there. Throughout the book there are several mysteries going on. Some young women are worried and secretive and staying at the hotel in Hope waiting for word from their boyfriends. The boyfriends went to Despair. One of the boyfriends may be dead. The only industry in Despair is a recycling plant which has a government contract to recycle military vehicles and other. Thurman owns the recycling plant and almost every other business in town. Everyone works for him. He is also the local preacher. Every night he flies his small plane somewhere and returns a few hours later. There is a military base of some sort near the recycling plant. When Reacher drives near the military base he is ordered to leave. Vaughan is a female cop in Hope. She assists Reacher with some of his activities. There is a mystery about her husband who is not around. No one will tell Reacher anything about her husband. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: Lots and lots of questions and mysteries for the plot. And then even more questions are created through every day conversation. For example, when Vaughan and Reacher are driving he asks her \u201cwhere are we going?\u201d She says \u201cyou\u2019ll see.\u201d When Reacher is traveling with Thurman he asks the same question. Thurman says \u201cyou\u2019ll see.\u201d Toward the end, Reacher has figured things out. When Vaughan asks him what\u2019s going on with the plant. He says \u201cI\u2019ll tell you later.\u201d When she asks what\u2019s going on with the boyfriends. He says \u201cI\u2019ll tell you later.\u201d So, I\u2019m at the end of the book, and the mysteries have been revealed, and my reaction is \u201cwhat?...Oh....Not very good.\u201d In all other Reacher books he is frequently up against several bad guys at once and wins. I\u2019m wondering if the author was thinking \u201cwhat if he was up against a whole town?\u201d Maybe that\u2019s how the story started. Maybe it could have been good. But it didn\u2019t work. Things weren\u2019t supported logically enough. Even at the end, I was asking why would everyone in town be so aggressively against every traveling outsider? I know he answered that, sort of, but it wasn\u2019t a good answer. And then other things were not justified or explained well enough. I always have to suspend disbelief in Reacher stories, and I don\u2019t mind. But in this book, the reasons were not fun. And the action was not as exciting. There was an occasional fight. But it\u2019s mostly just mystery upon mystery with unsatisfying reveals at the end. SOMETHING FOR TRIVIA BUFFS: We learn that Reacher used to smoke Camels. He quit before any of these books. WHAT I LIKED: A couple scenes. I liked what he did to the two Despair police cars. That surprised me. I wasn\u2019t expecting it. When told that the Despair police would be coming to Hope to search for Reacher, Reacher went to Despair for the night. Reacher wanted to search all the rooms at the rooming house in Despair. He told the owner to give him the pass key. If not, the owner would have a lot of expense to repair all the broken doors. NARRATOR: The narrator Dick Hill was very good. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 13 hrs and 58 mins. Swearing language: mild. Sexual language: none. Number of sex scenes: 5 referred to not shown. Setting: 2007 mostly Colorado. Book copyright: 2008. Genre: mystery suspense. Ending: mysteries are revealed, but I did not feel satisfied. THE SERIES: Following is a list of the Jack Reacher books in order with my ratings. All the books could be read as stand-alones, but I suggest reading them in order, saving the lower rated ones for last. 4 \u00bd stars. Killing Floor (#1) 4 stars. Die Trying (#2) 4 stars. Tripwire (#3) 2 \u00bd stars. Running Blind (#4) 4 stars. Echo Burning (#5) 3 \u00bd stars. Without Fail (#6) 4 stars. Persuader (#7) 3 stars. The Enemy (#8) 4 \u00bd stars. One Shot (#9) 3 stars. The Hard Way (#10) 3 \u00bd stars. Bad Luck and Trouble (#11) 2 stars. Nothing To Lose (#12) 4 stars. Gone Tomorrow (#13) 3 stars. 61 Hours (#14) 4 \u00bd stars. Worth Dying For (#15) 4 stars. The Affair (#16) 4 \u00bd stars. Second Son (short story at the end of the \u201cThe Affair\u201d) ...more I can always depend on <---A>Lee Child</---A> to keep me up all night to finish Jack Reacher\u2019s latest \u201cmission\u201d to help in a desperate situation. But, not this time! After a thrilling, mysterious prologue, Child has Reacher in Colorado where he finds that there is little distance between the fictional towns of Hope and Despair \u2013 both in the physicality and allegorical senses. All Reacher wanted was a cup of coffee. He is ignored, beaten up, thrown in jail, and driven back toward Hope after being convicted of I can always depend on Lee Child to keep me up all night to finish Jack Reacher\u2019s latest \u201cmission\u201d to help in a desperate situation. But, not this time! After a thrilling, mysterious prologue, Child has Reacher in Colorado where he finds that there is little distance between the fictional towns of Hope and Despair \u2013 both in the physicality and allegorical senses. All Reacher wanted was a cup of coffee. He is ignored, beaten up, thrown in jail, and driven back toward Hope after being convicted of vagrancy. He is picked up by Vaughn (Reacher\u2019s love interest in this novel) and driven back to the bus stop from where just mere hours before he had arrived. The pretty officer suggests Reacher to move along taking the next bus, but Reacher is determined to find out what the people of Despair are hiding, especially after he learns that a number of active servicemen disappear after traveling to the small town. Child throws in a doomsday sect and a mysterious metal recycling plant into the mix. Sounds good, but it really wasn\u2019t. The sect and the plant were completely over the top. The villains were lackluster and I really didn\u2019t care about the predicament presiding over Despair. Child\u2019s overt political opinions didn\u2019t ring true to Reacher\u2019s character, especially at the end when he discovers the truth about the missing servicemen. Even if Jack has become more liberal in his world view, what he discovered couldn\u2019t have been accepted and dismissed that easily as an ex-MP. The conspiracy was so far -fetched that I couldn\u2019t by into it and was bored with the story. Jack Reacher is not the hero that I neither love nor respect any more. Why can\u2019t authors just leave their politics private and tell a damn good story these days? 2 Stars ...more I shoulda effin' known better. On the recommendation of quite a few (formerly) reliable folks, I finally cranked through a 500+ Jack Reacher novel. Short version: Fucking terrible. Longer and angrier version: It seems to me that Lee Child really wants to write Robert B. Parker novels, but doesn't have the balls to actually go through with it. There are entire pages that could have been ripped out of a Spenser novel. Shit like this (paraphrasing because I don't want to open the goddamn book ever agai I shoulda effin' known better. On the recommendation of quite a few (formerly) reliable folks, I finally cranked through a 500+ Jack Reacher novel. Short version: Fucking terrible. Longer and angrier version: It seems to me that Lee Child really wants to write Robert B. Parker novels, but doesn't have the balls to actually go through with it. There are entire pages that could have been ripped out of a Spenser novel. Shit like this (paraphrasing because I don't want to open the goddamn book ever again): He unlocked the door. He opened the door. He walked through the door. The room was empty. It's a specific style choice that could have made for an interesting read. But Child forgets the brevity-type writing for 50 pages at a time, when he feels the need to expand on the convoluted 'mystery' that is so far beyond retarded that it might be brilliant if it wasn't so boring. Also, this Jack Reacher character...holy Christfuck, what a joke. He never loses a fight. He knows everything. He apparently has no ties to anything that isn't happening RIGHT NOW. He fucks the girl, and when she feels guilty for cheating on her brain-dead husband, Reacher fucks her again and makes it all better. We have no idea how he knows what he knows, how he became a fucking ninja (seriously...dude beats up 6 guys in a bar and doesn't sustain a single injury. He makes Swayze look like a puss), etc. Reading about Jack Reacher is like watching old episodes of Quantam Leap if they starred Schwarzenegger's character from Last Action Hero. Child goes WAY out of his way to show us all the cool shit that Jack knows, whether it has fuck-all to do with anything or not. Hell, I gotta open that POS again, but it's worth it. Lemme quote: \"He looked at the lock and looked at the keys and selected a long brass item and tried it. The lock turned, with plenty of effort. Either the key was badly cut, or the lock's tongue was binding against the striker plate, or both. But the door opened.\" Oh...so Jack knows how to select a key just by looking at the lock? And how that lock works and why it might not turn smoothly? Well, that's good to know oh wait no it isn't WHO GIVES A FUCK?! I think there's 13 of these Jack Reacher books, and this is the 11th in the series. How can there be ZERO background info about your only recurring character? Does each book exist in a vacuum, like this one? Maybe the others fill in the backstory. I'm certainly not willing to find out. And to top it all off, my copy was one of those tall and skinny new-format novels. The asshole who came up with this idea needs executed, Utah-style. ...more My 2nd Jack Reacher book. I don't like his vigilante attitude. Funny when the same \"take no prisoners\" attitude is on the big screen, I'm cheering for the cowboy but in the slower medium of the printed word, I find it distasteful. And really, what woman would really fall into bed with a man who has no job and rarely changes his clothes? apparently when you edit a review everything is deleted first. As Reacher would say, OK. And that is the problem, Child writes in short sentences with small words. Frequently just in phrases. Apparently Child frequently/always puts Reacher into impossible situations that he fights out of. Child includes many details, most of which are wrong. 1) there is no such thing as a 4 cyl el Camino 2) it isn't a truck & you can't take it offroad anymore than the Chevelle it is based on 3) quit calling an e apparently when you edit a review everything is deleted first. As Reacher would say, OK. And that is the problem, Child writes in short sentences with small words. Frequently just in phrases. Apparently Child frequently/always puts Reacher into impossible situations that he fights out of. Child includes many details, most of which are wrong. 1) there is no such thing as a 4 cyl el Camino 2) it isn't a truck & you can't take it offroad anymore than the Chevelle it is based on 3) quit calling an el Camino a truck time after time after time. did I say child was repetive ? annoyingly so. And no American cars have geometry. They have alignment. I used to own a SS 396 el Camino, I know what it can do. 4) Canada does not accept US deserters as refugees as it did with Viet Nam era draft dodgers/deserters. USA now has a volunteer Army, not conscripted. Even Canada has its standards who it will accept. This is not a spoiler, the plot is too convoluted to put it in place. 5) 20 tons of TNT is not that much. It will not create a vortex 20 miles away. And Lee has no idea what a dirty bomb is. 6) if you want to read sexy scenes, forget it. It has a little bit of sex, but not sexy. 7) just don't waste your time. If you want to read it, turn your brain off first. Reacher is Rambo/Terminator/Dr Who. The enemy is militant Christian Zionists and Iraqi deserters. The local library suddenly has a new shelf of Lee Child books donated by patrons, they rent for $0.25/day. It seems everybody jumped on the Reacher bandwagon, decided it was only worth 1 read and dumped it for a tax writeoff. YMMV ...more Not the best of Reacher's books. I thought the \"villains\" were not in his league at all and the action wasn't as exciting. He kicked their asses right and left and it was amazing how much he got by with. I never got the explanation of why the whole town was into the craziness. Nothing was a big surprise to me. The best part of the book was getting an inkling of the reasons why Reacher left a job he was so good at. There had been some allusions in past books but I think this was the strongest: Rea Not the best of Reacher's books. I thought the \"villains\" were not in his league at all and the action wasn't as exciting. He kicked their asses right and left and it was amazing how much he got by with. I never got the explanation of why the whole town was into the craziness. Nothing was a big surprise to me. The best part of the book was getting an inkling of the reasons why Reacher left a job he was so good at. There had been some allusions in past books but I think this was the strongest: Reacher thinks the US government broke the unspoken covenant with its soldiers: only send me to die when it's absolutely needed. I felt really bad hearing Reacher's hurt and disappointment that he had to leave a placed he loved (the Army) because of what it became. These books are like chips and once I start listening, I get the itch to continue. I wouldn't be surprised if I pick book #13 next. ...more Jack Reacher finds himself between Hope and Despair, actually two cities. Despair is a desolate place where everyone wants to see him out of town. Everything is owned by one man which immediately makes Reacher suspicious. He enlists the aid of a cop in Hope and having a knack for finding trouble, Reacher gets plenty of it. I have always liked Reacher but for some reason this year it seems as though publishers told their writers, \"give me a plot involving trashing the government, the military, th Jack Reacher finds himself between Hope and Despair, actually two cities. Despair is a desolate place where everyone wants to see him out of town. Everything is owned by one man which immediately makes Reacher suspicious. He enlists the aid of a cop in Hope and having a knack for finding trouble, Reacher gets plenty of it. I have always liked Reacher but for some reason this year it seems as though publishers told their writers, \"give me a plot involving trashing the government, the military, the war, or religious zealots. It appears Lee Child decided to cover all bases. If this plot had appeared transparent at the beginning, I probably wouldn't have finished the book. But it wasn't apparent until I was near the end so I finished it. ...more Holy conspiracy theories, Batman! Did somebody take James Lee Burke and tuck his liberal rants between the covers of a Lee Child novel? Don't get me wrong - Burke and Child are two of my favorite authors - but the venerable Burke started a fast descent when his politics began to irrationally overpower the gripping atmospheric prose of the Mississippi delta and Dave Robicheaux's hard-hitting tales of southern noir. But if one were to judge Child solely on the basis of \"<+++>Nothing to Lose</+++>\", they migh Holy conspiracy theories, Batman! Did somebody take James Lee Burke and tuck his liberal rants between the covers of a Lee Child novel? Don't get me wrong - Burke and Child are two of my favorite authors - but the venerable Burke started a fast descent when his politics began to irrationally overpower the gripping atmospheric prose of the Mississippi delta and Dave Robicheaux's hard-hitting tales of southern noir. But if one were to judge Child solely on the basis of \"<+++>Nothing to Lose</+++>\", they might conclude that that he is already well down that slippery slope. Which would be a true disservice to the author and his readers. So this starts out as the vintage Lee Child/Jack Reacher thrill fest, with the stoic loaner Reacher alone on a desolate highway separating the fictitious and allegorically named Colorado towns of Hope and Despair. Borrowing heavily from Stallone's \"First Blood\" - and even a bit from Stephen King's eerie \"Desperation\" - Reacher wants nothing more than a cup of coffee while passing through Despair. Instead, he finds himself first ignored and then in jail for vagrancy. With a provocative and mysterious prologue, and Reacher's first fist fight by page fifteen, all the pieces were quickly falling into place for a classic Child/Reacher escape to fast action and delicious revenge. The mystery of the Despair deepened, a company town supported by a massive metal recycling plant and controlled Waco-like by the omnipresent \"Mr. Thurman\". And keeping with his trusted and successful formula, Child provides Reacher's love interest in the form of \"Vaughan\", a patrolman of neighboring Hope. But a promising start begins to fray around the edges a hundred-or-so pages in, and, by halfway through, has literally lost all \"Hope\". Repeated encounters between Reacher and Thurman and his thugs become tedious - even boring, unheard of in Child's pages - as the plot meanders and stumbles through incongruities and inconsistencies alien to Child's usually credible plot lines and meticulous research. But in this installment, while Child can still add depth and interest to a story with minutia ranging from the perfect cup of coffee to the physics of a cell phone call, he is inexcusably sloppy in tying together his central theme. Unlike the smart, lean, and unencumbered prose we've been conditioned to expect, \"Nothing to Lose\" reads with all the clarity and efficiency you'd expect in a \"Code Pink\" manifesto. It's a shame, really. Lee Child is arguably the standard in contemporary thriller/action fiction, and Jack Reacher is, as so well said by the Chicago Sun-Times, \"...the perfect hero, loved by women, feared by men, respected by all.\" But not this time. Let's just hope that this episode's muddled and confused Reacher is an aberration, and that next year's entry will return to the straightforward thrills of \"Persuader\", \"Tripwire\", or \"Killing Floor\", rather than following James Lee Burke down a path that will not only cost him a loyal fan base, but also tarnish the great writing that justifiably has earned their fealty. ...more My first and maybe last Jack Reacher novel. My main problem is that Jack Reacher is basically a school yard bully. I guess I expected threats, intimidation and brute force as his chosen tools; but it would have been nice to see him backed into a corner, instead of \"getting your retaliation in first.\" Maybe I'm just an old western romantic in that sense. Seems like the good guy in the story should show some restraint until there's no other choice. Beyond that, I'm guessing you only need to read on My first and maybe last Jack Reacher novel. My main problem is that Jack Reacher is basically a school yard bully. I guess I expected threats, intimidation and brute force as his chosen tools; but it would have been nice to see him backed into a corner, instead of \"getting your retaliation in first.\" Maybe I'm just an old western romantic in that sense. Seems like the good guy in the story should show some restraint until there's no other choice. Beyond that, I'm guessing you only need to read one Jack Reacher novel to know them all... 1. Reacher drifts into town. 2. Reacher beats up 5-6 guys and/or 2 smaller guys, plus a giant. 3. Reacher beds a beautiful/lonely/tough woman, but doesn't get too attached. 4. Reacher beats up another 5-6 guys and/or 2 smaller guys, plus a giant. 5. Reacher saves the town/county/world from a threat hidden from the reader until the last 100 pgs. 6. Reacher leaves town. In order to stick the formula, you're going to have to glide over some plot holes and ignore some inconsistencies. I won't get into them here. OK, maybe just the last one (view spoiler) [ he gives his lady-cop-sex-partner the option to basically murder the bad guys in the end... and she DOES so? Seems pretty far away from a choice her established character would have taken. I mean, this woman is such a straight-up cop that she won't cross over the town line because of legal jurisdiction... yet she will murder three people and destroy an entire town... for what reason exactly? Because they are philosophically like the people who harmed her husband? Sheesh! (hide spoiler) ] ...more This book maybe my last in the Lee Child series, but my decision isn't solely based on this book alone. The main reasons are that the gory scenes are too gory for my taste, and there is too much of detail in every book which makes me skip many sentences at a time. This book didn't appeal to me because of the following reasons: [1] I don't see a 'drive' or reason for Reacher to go back to a town time and again where he isn't welcome. [2] Reacher pokes his nose in all the private places, and yet, the This book maybe my last in the Lee Child series, but my decision isn't solely based on this book alone. The main reasons are that the gory scenes are too gory for my taste, and there is too much of detail in every book which makes me skip many sentences at a time. This book didn't appeal to me because of the following reasons: [1] I don't see a 'drive' or reason for Reacher to go back to a town time and again where he isn't welcome. [2] Reacher pokes his nose in all the private places, and yet, the owners react very coolly and comply to all his demands. [3] The town almost seemed like a wild wild west town with only a handful of policemen who do what they want, and if they're injured or taken out, then there's no replacement from anywhere else. But I may be wrong, maybe in America the policemen are chosen only by the mayors or the town-heads, and they dont get transferred on duty. [4] There was a lot of guesswork which turned out to be right - seems too easy to feel true. [5] Finally, the author has written about a MP station which is strategically located near the highway, the purpose of which is to ensure that trucks with specific cargo aren't stolen. But at the end of the book, we realize that the specific cargo was ordered to be stored in the factory itself! Then why to have an MP station, and why the location? ...more Yeah, we can be sure my Lee Child spree in the Jack Reacher series ends with this one. I was curious to his writing and I'm happy I got to borrow the three books in this series, in order to see what it's all about. The main character doesn't impress me at all, he could very well be the Van Damme of literature, working the same scheme, employing the same tricks, being as static as it's possible, from a developmental point of view. Once in a while, reading this kind of books, I remember why I have Yeah, we can be sure my Lee Child spree in the Jack Reacher series ends with this one. I was curious to his writing and I'm happy I got to borrow the three books in this series, in order to see what it's all about. The main character doesn't impress me at all, he could very well be the Van Damme of literature, working the same scheme, employing the same tricks, being as static as it's possible, from a developmental point of view. Once in a while, reading this kind of books, I remember why I have a love/hate relationship with thrillers - they do feed my mechanic need of eating words and turning pages, but they in no way satisfy my appetite for a good story . That being said, Lee Child is in no way a bad writer . He just chose a niche that I particularly don't find exciting enough. He can deliver, no worries. Fast-paced, intuitive and clearly dosed like a heroin shot, his books follow a winning pattern for the commercial use. As always, I never regret reading any work, because there's something interesting to be found in each and every one of them, as far as my experience goes. But, for the purest intellectual pleasure, I would never pick this kind of book. ...more Disappointing but effective installment in Child's Jack Reacher series. This but seemed long for a Reacher thriller and might have been strengthed by cutting one of the three main plot strands. I felt that Child made it more confusing than necessary and could have shored up the suspense with tipping his hand a little more. Starts off great, but we've seen some of the same elements in Killing Floor, Die Trying and Echo Burning. But still, nobody does hardcore, bad-ass loner fiction like Child. Th Disappointing but effective installment in Child's Jack Reacher series. This but seemed long for a Reacher thriller and might have been strengthed by cutting one of the three main plot strands. I felt that Child made it more confusing than necessary and could have shored up the suspense with tipping his hand a little more. Starts off great, but we've seen some of the same elements in Killing Floor, Die Trying and Echo Burning. But still, nobody does hardcore, bad-ass loner fiction like Child. This is a must for fans of the series, newbies would be better off reading one of the books I mention above. ...more I'm not sure I can keep going with these, which is unfortunate since I have three left that I've borrowed. This one, my second Lee Child/Jack Reacher book, was marginally better than Bad Luck And Trouble, but suffered from different problems. Nothing To Lose, much like the book in sequence before it, has a fun overall plot idea ruined by a protagonist who is hard to root for, a lot of meandering plot, and a lot of pure guesswork that turns out to be correct. The story, or at least the main threa I'm not sure I can keep going with these, which is unfortunate since I have three left that I've borrowed. This one, my second Lee Child/Jack Reacher book, was marginally better than Bad Luck And Trouble, but suffered from different problems. Nothing To Lose, much like the book in sequence before it, has a fun overall plot idea ruined by a protagonist who is hard to root for, a lot of meandering plot, and a lot of pure guesswork that turns out to be correct. The story, or at least the main thread, focuses on a \"bad\" Colorado town of Despair (right next to the \"good\" town of Hope - that alone made me roll my eyes) that conspires to run Reacher out of town. In the end, Reacher figures out that (view spoiler) [a local Revelation enthusiast preacher/businessman is preparing a dirty bomb to incite events corresponding to Revelation prophecy, and the preacher relies on the Despair citizens to ensure no outsiders find out. Enlisting the help of the pretty, young, female Hope police officer, Reacher is able to thwart his plans by detonating the bomb in a relatively safe place, killing the preacher Thurman and his direct lackeys (hide spoiler) ] . Child also takes the opportunity to get political by introducing secondary plotlines involving war deserters and the treatment of veterans, which basically just confused the story. Pros: Again, the very few action scenes are very visual and are described well. The overall plot idea is good, but tainted by several hard-to-swallow events. It finally did grab me about halfway through, and the climax was a decent payoff for such a huge amount of nothing going on. I have read reviews lamenting Reacher's politics regarding vets and deserters as being out of character, but I actually found it to be quite well explained and actually added an interesting feature to an otherwise dull, lumbering hero. I also found (view spoiler) [the recovery of refined uranium that would prove illegal operations occurring overseas (hide spoiler) ] to be one of the more believable concepts in the whole story. Cons: Here we go again. First off, at least a hundred pages of Reacher walking, hitchhiking, and driving in and around Despair and Hope could have been cut. It wasn't interesting and it slowed the book down considerably; maybe some description of the landscape might have helped, but there was none except for the distance of the mountains on the horizon. The secondary plots were too much of a distraction and confused things rather than added to the mystery of why Despair was set against Reacher. Obviously their purpose was to give Reacher some depth and opinions on war effects, but it felt unnecessary and clearly did not please the Jack Reacher audience. I found several scenes to stretch credibility, such as (view spoiler) [the entire population of the town standing in the road between Hope and Despair in order to specifically scare and/or drive off Reacher and the cop Vaughn. I found just the general concept of a whole town in on a conspiracy to build a massive uranium dirty bomb without any information leaks to break credibility entirely, no matter how brainwashed they all are. And a metal refinery that deals with secret depleted uranium used by the U.S. against foreign civilians is staffed by Despair civilians and has security one man can break through? And they put the bomb together and arm it on-site (hide spoiler) ] ?? I don't buy it at all. Thurman was a completely uninteresting bad guy, being dumb enough to not realize the threat Reacher posed at all right up to the very end. He was supposed to be a faithful believer, but even Reacher pointed out the presence of a lightning rod on his house as proof that he held at least a little doubt in God's plan. Yet Thurman dumbly continues to (view spoiler) [send harmless men against Reacher in ones and twos, which poses practically no challenge for Reacher and zero interest for readers. One of the most irritating pieces of the book is Reacher confronting Thurman and the two of them going on a voluntary plane ride in order for Reacher to discover where Thurman goes. Not only does Thurman not take the opportunity to permanently take out a threat to his operation, he leaves Reacher two states away and flies home; the level of stupid Reacher has to be to fall for that is incredible. He even remarks on his own stupidity and then spends two boring chapters hitchhiking back to Colorado. Even at the end when Reacher finally deduces the presence of a dirty bomb in a locked shipping container, he is still mostly guessing and assuming, much like the last book. He could have been wrong and it would not have been a surprise if he was wrong; not near enough actual evidence for the existence of the bomb was there. But Reacher is correct, he escapes, and allows Vaughn to detonate the bomb from a safe distance (hide spoiler) ] . Much like Reacher's savant-like appreciation for numbers in the previous book (completely absent here) is his recurring ruminations on the philosophy of Zeno, again clearly intended to make him seem intelligent but instead seeming to come out of nowhere and be out of character for a bookless wanderer. Reacher's continued insistence on walking and owning nothing is all well and good, but this is the second book where he has basically set up a place to sleep and keep his stuff and obtained a car without paying for it. It kind of broke down his personal philosophy a bit and I found it a little hypocritical. I also found the near complete lack of described thoughts and emotions from Reacher a problem when it came to finding him sympathetic as a smart, capable hero. Probably the most irritating thing happens as the inciting action, where Reacher essentially bullies a restaurant into allowing him to drink a cup of coffee, even though it would likely be well within its rights to not serve him. Any normal person would have just moved on. But not Reacher, who does not take being vaguely disrespected lying down, and he finds no real reason to keep hanging around until maybe a quarter into the book. I'm moving on, at least for now. Reacher must not be my kind of hero. In which case, it seems like Tom Cruise is a perfect casting choice... ...more Nothing to Lose (Jack Reacher #12), Lee Child Fourteenth chronologically in the Jack Reacher thriller series (and twelfth publication-wise) about an ex-M.P. roaming the world on his own terms and protecting the innocent. It's been ten years since he left the army. My Take I think this was one of the scarier Reacher novels. To think that a town would exist that was so far out of the norm. And how easy it was for its \"rulers\" to govern! Part of that \"easiness\" depended upon how the majority of us were brought up: Keep out of your neighbors' busi Fourteenth chronologically in the Jack Reacher thriller series (and twelfth publication-wise) about an ex-M.P. roaming the world on his own terms and protecting the innocent. It's been ten years since he left the army. My Take I think this was one of the scarier Reacher novels. To think that a town would exist that was so far out of the norm. And how easy it was for its \"rulers\" to govern! Part of that \"easiness\" depended upon how the majority of us were brought up: Keep out of your neighbors' business and follow the rules . The people in Hope know there's something hinky and they simply accommodate their nutty neighbors. Of course, to be fair, they had no idea that Despair was that crazy! It certainly helped Despair protect its way of doing things that the feds had an interest there! I would'a gone around the town after being tossed out on my butt. And the U.S. would be minus some pretty useful territory if I had been in charge and not Reacher. I don't understand why Child writes in the beginning that Reacher was \"angry at himself later, for being so inflexible\". Seems it was a good thing! And just the type of action Reacher is good at, so, I'm confused. Reacher worries me. He's getting older and he still plunges into some scary situations! Although, I do love how Child provides us with a step-by-step of how Reacher plans to thwart the bad guys! He does do some rather stupid things in this story. Makes me wonder what's gonna happen in Gone Tomorrow . Oh, lordy, Reacher has weaknesses! He can't run very fast. He's a terrible driver. Here I was beginning to think he was Superman. It's a busy story. There is so much going on and Child keeps it pretty hidden until the end. Oh, there are plenty of clues and loads of red herrings, but I remained pretty clueless about most of it. The Story Jack Reacher had a new plan in mind---crossing the country diagonally from Maine to San Diego. There was just this little hiccup with the guy and the comfy Grand Marquis. Then there was the little town of Despair, Colorado, that threw him out. Nuh-uh, nobody keeps Jack Reacher from going where he pleases and it's game on. The heady delights of power and the crazed interpretation of the Rapture has created a despotic mayor---he's more of a king, really---in Despair. A town that truly lives up to its name. It's a chance encounter with a preacher in a U-haul that provides the tip that cracks it wide open. The Characters Jack Reacher is a big, powerful man with a firm belief in fairness. He served his country for a number of years and he is intent on continuing to serve it and its people. In his own way. Officer Vaughan is a cop with the Hope PD. A sister town to Despair, but only in that it shares a boundary line. Vaughan has her own reasons to despair. David Robert Vaughan is her husband. In name only. The army was too cheap to properly armor his Humvee and now he's warehoused in a disgusting building run by private contractors. You'd think we could honor the soldiers who serve better than this... Lucy Anderson , Maria Ramirez (her husband, Rapahel , had been a Marine), and Mrs. Rogers are just a couple of the women waiting on tenterhooks, wondering about the safety of their men. Jerry Thurman owns the metal recycling plant, he owns the town, and he's their preacher. A gen-yew-ine born-again Christian. Judge Gardner simply does what he's told; Mrs. Gardner is much more human. Although that's not saying much. Corporal Morgan is part of an M.P. unit guarding the major road into Despair. The Cover The cover is a gritty, well-textured target of concentric oranges with a smoking bullet hole in its center. Hey, when you've got Nothing to Lose , it's easy to destroy. ...more Jack Reacher, the ex-Army MP protagonist in Lee Child's long-running series, knows what duty means. He understands a soldier's duty to his country, but he also knows that duty runs two ways. One's country---and its leaders, politicians, and citizens---has a duty to its soldier. More often than not, Reacher believes, that duty is forgotten, and when that happens---when a soldier feels that he has nothing to gain from serving a corrupt country with a corrupt ideology---he starts to feel that he ha Jack Reacher, the ex-Army MP protagonist in Lee Child's long-running series, knows what duty means. He understands a soldier's duty to his country, but he also knows that duty runs two ways. One's country---and its leaders, politicians, and citizens---has a duty to its soldier. More often than not, Reacher believes, that duty is forgotten, and when that happens---when a soldier feels that he has nothing to gain from serving a corrupt country with a corrupt ideology---he starts to feel that he has nothing to lose, as well. \"Nothing To Lose\", the twelfth novel in the Reacher series, is Child's most blatant commentary on the Bush-era Iraq War, but it never comes across as too preachy or, in any way, an outright castigation of the Bush Administration. Child knows that the secret to good writing is the age-old axiom \"show, don't tell.\" He knows that he doesn't have to tell the reader how ugly or pointless the war is, or how mistreated our soldiers are by our own government. Like any good writer, Child makes his point by simply creating a good story. The \"message\" within the story never becomes the focus, and it never gets in the way of the story. In \"Nothing To Lose\", we find Reacher hitch-hiking through Colorado, and he literally finds himself walking the line between Hope and Despair. Hope, Colorado and Despair, Colorado are two small neighboring suburban cities, but, as their names imply, they are as different as night and day. In the town of Despair, a weary Reacher walks into a diner and is denied a cup of coffee. Minutes later, the sheriff and several deputies arrive to kick him out of town for \"vagrancy\". They drop him off at the Hope city limits, where the Hope police chief, a woman named Vaughn, is waiting to pick him up. Unlike the Despair cops, she's friendly enough. She drops him off at the diner in Hope and tells him an interesting story. Despair, she tells him, is a company town. It's a huge steel recycling plant---the largest in the country, actually---that employs over half the town, while the other half works for the smaller businesses that are kept afloat by the factory workers. The plant and the town is owned by the richest man in the region, a man named Thurman. He's also the town's fire-and-brimstone preacher at the End Times Church, the only church in town. The people in Despair don't like strangers. She tells Reacher to leave it alone, but Reacher doesn't like being kicked out of towns for no good reasons. He also likes a good mystery. Like: why do so many of the people in Despair look physically ill? Why is there an Army installation attached to the factory? And why does a a plane take off and arrive hours later every night from Thurman's hangar? Where is it going and what is it carrying? When he decides to cross the city limits back into Despair to find out, he literally stumbles over a body. Now, Reacher has a real murder mystery to solve. And a townful of secrets to uncover. \"Nothing to Lose\" is Child's most engrossing and suspenseful thriller yet. It unfolds slowly, but it never unfolds in ways one would expect. It is also thought-provoking and moving in parts, as Child shows the reader the ugly aftermath of war and the all-too-human human costs of war. ...more I've read a few Jack Reacher novels now, and this one was the last straw. What in the world? How are we supposed to relate to the plots Child comes up with? Are we supposed to take them seriously? I don't understand how such absurd plots are supposed to be processed. **SPOILERS BELOW** Okay, so some people are deserting from the US military, and would like to go to Canada. Okay, say you're in America and you want to go to Canada. What do you do? Well, it's pretty simple -- you can just drive there I've read a few Jack Reacher novels now, and this one was the last straw. What in the world? How are we supposed to relate to the plots Child comes up with? Are we supposed to take them seriously? I don't understand how such absurd plots are supposed to be processed. **SPOILERS BELOW** Okay, so some people are deserting from the US military, and would like to go to Canada. Okay, say you're in America and you want to go to Canada. What do you do? Well, it's pretty simple -- you can just drive there. This is America. We're free to travel. But... these guys are being **smuggled** to Canada? From America? From Colorado? To get to Canada they need to hide in a commercial truck, leaning on a secret underground network? What? How is this supposed to be a serious plot? This isn't North Korea -- if you want to go to Canada, you can just drive there, or fly. No one is going to stop you. The police in Colorado and Wyoming don't have APBs out for guys who are AWOL from the Army. They're not combing America's highways looking for you. They don't know you exist. And any soldier could simply book a flight to Canada on their leave -- they could be in Canada weeks before they were due to report back, weeks before anyone would know. This smuggling business was incredibly dumb. And a fundamentalist Christian is going to set off a huge dirty bomb in a US city? Yeah, have we ever seen such a plot, such a person? It's cartoonish -- fundamentalist Christians aren't motivated to do stuff like that, don't want to kill a bunch of American civilians. And the guy flying every night to the Army base so he could deliver a cup of ashes. Why? Why does he fly **every night** in a little Piper just to deliver a tiny amount? Why not just go every week, or every month? Why not accumulate an actual sensible amount instead of coming back at 2:00 in the morning just to deliver a tiny bit of anonymous ashes? This reminded me of the Reacher book where a bunch of Middle Eastern muslims are using an old military silo to run an... underground paper-based bank for Middle Eastern clients. In Kansas. While the customers are in the Middle East. And because America is the perfect place to run an underground Muslim bank catering exclusively to customers in the Middle East. Because that kind of thing isn't frowned upon at all post-Sep 11. And where the private currency is \"backed\" by... toxic waste.. that is not actually given to anyone -- currency \"backed\" by something but can't be redeemed for that thing makes no sense at all. Hey y'all, my currency is backed by the Rocky Mountains! I give up on the Reacher novels. I've got to find something more coherent to kill time. ...more It all began with a false accusation. Reacher is back West, sipping coffee at a diner in Despair, Colorado. He's asked to leave by local police, cited for vagrancy, but the argument is weak at best and Reacher has done nothing but enjoy his caffeinated beverage. Crossing into the next town, aptly named Hope, Reacher tries to decipher what reason the Despair PD could have for wanting him gone and so quickly after he's entered the town limits. When he teams up with Hope's limited police force and It all began with a false accusation. Reacher is back West, sipping coffee at a diner in Despair, Colorado. He's asked to leave by local police, cited for vagrancy, but the argument is weak at best and Reacher has done nothing but enjoy his caffeinated beverage. Crossing into the next town, aptly named Hope, Reacher tries to decipher what reason the Despair PD could have for wanting him gone and so quickly after he's entered the town limits. When he teams up with Hope's limited police force and discovers a body between the two towns, he begins to wonder if there is something going on in Despair that everyone wants kept under wraps. As he stumbles upon military police guarding a site on Despair's outskirts, his curiosity is piqued further and his antennae begin hinting at much trouble ahead. Getting to the heart of the matter could prove to be more than one town's dislike of another. Child heightens his military angle in this thriller, with Reacher in the wrong place at the wrong time, yet again. Child decided to take his own stance on the War in Iraq, at a time when many authors sought to weave it into their pieces of fiction. While it is to be expected that Reacher would encounter a case that brings the 'War' and its social commentary to the forefront, it is refreshing that Child takes a few advanced by few mainstream American authors. Child does not make Reacher out to be a patriotic military cheerleader, but rather his usual sceptical self, leaving the reader to like Reacher even more. A wonderful story that proves, yet again, that Child has an endless number of story ideas for this wonderful Jack Reacher character. There seems to be an endless supply of ideas in which Reacher could be placed that also keep the reader hooked. Kudos, Mr. Child for this poignant story that keeps Reacher fans yearning for more. ...more Alas, my least favorite Reacher to date. That's not the end of the world. Twelve books into a mass market formulaic series, there's going to be some mis-steps and, in my opinion, that's what happened here. I don't think I'm completely bored with the series, premise, or protagonist, just yet - and I don't read them back to back (only reading a few a year) - but this one, well, it just didn't speak to me. This installment just felt (far) too long, surprisingly predictable (even though there were a Alas, my least favorite Reacher to date. That's not the end of the world. Twelve books into a mass market formulaic series, there's going to be some mis-steps and, in my opinion, that's what happened here. I don't think I'm completely bored with the series, premise, or protagonist, just yet - and I don't read them back to back (only reading a few a year) - but this one, well, it just didn't speak to me. This installment just felt (far) too long, surprisingly predictable (even though there were a handful of intriguing surprises), and ... simply ... consistently ... repeatedly ... uh ... repetitive. Nor did I find it terribly compelling or nerve wracking.... (and I concede I may have just picked it up at the wrong time). But my guess is that, somewhere, on a Jack Reacher fan blog, there's a parody of this one called Back To The Well, One ... More ... Time, And, Then ... Repeat, or something like that. Having said all of that, I encourage high volume folks to give Lee Child a chance - assuming, of course, you're neither offended by violence nor immune to conspiracy theory - I really enjoyed the first book in the series, and most of the others have proven excellent airplane, train, bus, and hotel reading. Of course ... there's lots of them, so you can always find one at the community used book sale, or, whenever you're in an airport bookstore and you want to grab something familiar but ... not ... too ... taxing, there's always another Jack Reacher close at hand. Tere's something to be said for that too. ...more Okay, I have been reading the Jack Reach series in order. My intent was to read the entire series and then see the movie based on \"One Shot\". I have just finished \"Nothing to Lose\" and I must say I'm becoming more and more disappointed with each subsequent book. I served in the US Military as both enlisted, and then a commissioned officer. It is painfully obvious that Jim Grant (Lee Child)built a persona of a military officer based on fairy tales. Jack Reacher in no way way resembles any militar Okay, I have been reading the Jack Reach series in order. My intent was to read the entire series and then see the movie based on \"One Shot\". I have just finished \"Nothing to Lose\" and I must say I'm becoming more and more disappointed with each subsequent book. I served in the US Military as both enlisted, and then a commissioned officer. It is painfully obvious that Jim Grant (Lee Child)built a persona of a military officer based on fairy tales. Jack Reacher in no way way resembles any military officer.... ever. Mr Grant's knowledge of the military seems to been founded in the comic book escapades of Captain America and Wonder Woman's Colonel Steve Trevor. I'm not sure how these books are continuously rated so favorably. They are fairly predictable and monotonous at times. They don't quite reach the level of \"thriller\". I don't understand the random, seemingly accidentally acts of sex Reacher finds himself engaged in. I'm further confused as to how any woman, real or fictional, would be drawn to a man who wears the same clothes for three days and doesn't change his underwear. At any rate, I'm going to finish the series.... only because that was my goal at the beginning of \"The Killing Floor\". Hopefully The later works will portray a better understanding of military life, but I'm not confident. ...more In my mind, Jack Reacher is mine - though arguably the worst commitment phobe, ever- whatever! Bless Paramount for casting Tinny Tom.... who woulda thunk it. Gargantuan Jack and Tinny Tom. Match made only in Hollywood No great revelations about Reacher in this volume, but the adventure is fast-paxed, intriguing, and makes you want to read more. Jack Reacher novels are usually a fun read. In my experience never believable and shouldn't be taken seriously. Just enjoy the story. In this outing Reacher is hitchhiking from Maine to San Diego. Why? He wants to go from the northeast corner of the country to the southwest. He is not attempting to follow a straight line from one corner of the country to the other. In Colorado he stops in the town of Hope. After a few days he is ready to move on but decides to take a small detour.He has seen Hop Jack Reacher novels are usually a fun read. In my experience never believable and shouldn't be taken seriously. Just enjoy the story. In this outing Reacher is hitchhiking from Maine to San Diego. Why? He wants to go from the northeast corner of the country to the southwest. He is not attempting to follow a straight line from one corner of the country to the other. In Colorado he stops in the town of Hope. After a few days he is ready to move on but decides to take a small detour.He has seen Hope and now he wants to see Despair. All he wants is a cup of coffee. Instead he is confronted by four men, thrown in jail, and kicked out of town on a vagrancy charge. There is a metaphorical and physical line that divides the small towns of Hope and Despair. Back in Hope after being kicked out of Despair he meets an attractive policewoman. In Lee Child books there is always an attractive female member of law enforcement in the story. He learns that his vagrancy charge is not unique and visitors are not welcome in Despair. In Hope there are currently two women waiting on boyfriends / husbands who went to Despair and have not been heard from since. Despair is a company town and home to a large metal recycling plant. There is a connection between the recycling plant and the Iraq war. The plant has a contract with the Pentagon to process Humvee's damaged by IED's, etc. There are other strange goings on. A plane that takes off every night about 7PM and returns several hours later. An \"end of the world\" religious\" group. A FOB (Forwarding Operating Base) on the other side of the recycling plant that is manned by elite MP's. They should have just given Reacher his coffee and let him move on. But since they didn't he sets out to unlock the secrets of Despair with the help of his new contact in the Hope police department. There are many parts of the story that are totally unrealistic. At one point Reacher finds himself stranded in Oklahoma at 12:30AM. He sets out to hitchhike back to Hope, CO and manages to get back by 10AM the same day. There is the usual one sided fights where he is out manned, sometimes four or six to one, and comes out victorious with only sore knuckles and maybe a couple of bruises. I have seen quite a few negative reviews on Nothing to Lose . If you don't take it too seriously this is an enjoyable story. Not one of the best in the series but still fun. ...more I\u2019ve noticed that the layout of this book, the town names and the Reacher findings (most likely a dead body\u2026or 17). Sure \u201cHope and Despair\u201d are out there but isn\u2019t that what we or \u201cI\u201d love about Jack Reacher? I didn\u2019t find it corny or cheesy. If you look at it through the eyes of Jack it fits like a glove. As the first few pages describe. Even as you acknowledge his reaction to the town names and their locations you can\u2019t help but think \u201cOH PLEASE go that way\u201d and he does. I liked this book. Sur I\u2019ve noticed that the layout of this book, the town names and the Reacher findings (most likely a dead body\u2026or 17). Sure \u201cHope and Despair\u201d are out there but isn\u2019t that what we or \u201cI\u201d love about Jack Reacher? I didn\u2019t find it corny or cheesy. If you look at it through the eyes of Jack it fits like a glove. As the first few pages describe. Even as you acknowledge his reaction to the town names and their locations you can\u2019t help but think \u201cOH PLEASE go that way\u201d and he does. I liked this book. Sure he found some \u201cfresh ones\u201d but that\u2019s what he does. Almost like a \u201czombie bird dog.\u201d Rant over ;) I found this book fitting about halfway through as probably my last for the year. What a better way to go out and finish a reading challenge that I though I would never accomplish than with hope and despair? I didn\u2019t time it either, it just sort of happened. The story was non-stop as usual, clever and gave me that Jack Reacher fix I needed. Especially after being the first book after I found out who\u2019s playing the 6 foot 5 in giant in the upcoming film. It included the things we love about Jack but it also was in an environment that was new for the series. I like stories that evolve around company towns, some good and some bad places. Being this one was named \u201cDespair,\u201d we\u2019ll you figure that one out. The metal plant, the intensity of what they processed and where it usually came from mixed in with the religious physco babble made me feel right at home with Jack at the helm. It\u2019s fiction, he\u2019s a badass, and this means I want badassery. I will say though that the mental game was more at play in this go around. The force was definitely with Jack as even I was fooled for the most part. I\u2019m fairly good and picking up on things/prediction but not this time. Sure after some pieces came together but for the most part I was in the dark for once, which was nice. Anyways you\u2019ll like this book I think if you are a Jack Reacher fan. Read on. format: kindle ...more This is the kind of book where you can read 500 pages in a day. And there's nothing wrong with that. If you don't know the basics of who this \"Reacher\" character is by now, I'm genuinely surprised, but I'll give a quick rundown: Ex-MP Reacher lives by wandering the country. No fixed address. Buys a new set of clothes every time he changes, and throws away the old ones, because having clothes means needing to do laundry, with all that entails. He quit smoking because he didn't want to carry aroun This is the kind of book where you can read 500 pages in a day. And there's nothing wrong with that. If you don't know the basics of who this \"Reacher\" character is by now, I'm genuinely surprised, but I'll give a quick rundown: Ex-MP Reacher lives by wandering the country. No fixed address. Buys a new set of clothes every time he changes, and throws away the old ones, because having clothes means needing to do laundry, with all that entails. He quit smoking because he didn't want to carry around a lighter. He's a hardcore guy in a pulp style. Hijinks ensue. In this book, the hijinks in question revolve around two towns, Hope and Despair. Yes, that's their names. If you want depth, read something else. Booked on a vagrancy charge, Reacher decides that he doesn't like being told what he can and can't do, and Despair will regret messing with him. I found the plot and characters engaging enough to suit my reading needs. Some of the action dragged, but it was easy to breeze through and into the next section. There was just enough depth to make the characters CORRUGATED cardboard cutouts...that's technically three dimensional, right? I would have liked it a bit more if I hadn't figured out the plot a third of the way in, but overall, it was a nice thriller with enough twists and turns. Like a roller coaster; just because I know what's coming doesn't mean I won't enjoy the trip. It was a fun read, and my first Reacher novel read. I plan on reading the rest of them, because I do like me some mindless violence now and then, and Reacher is pretty cool. It's escapist fiction at its finest. ...more Nothing to Lose is a typical Lee Child/Jack Reacher novel. Reacher is pulled into a situation not of his making and now he will be the one to settle it. His personal code deems it must be so. Reacher is passing from the town of Hope, CO into the town of Dispair when he decides to stop at the hardscrabble diner in the main part of Dispair. No one is inclined to serve him and the rest of the diners look aghast at him like he's grown a second head. When what passes for local law enforcement arrests Nothing to Lose is a typical Lee Child/Jack Reacher novel. Reacher is pulled into a situation not of his making and now he will be the one to settle it. His personal code deems it must be so. Reacher is passing from the town of Hope, CO into the town of Dispair when he decides to stop at the hardscrabble diner in the main part of Dispair. No one is inclined to serve him and the rest of the diners look aghast at him like he's grown a second head. When what passes for local law enforcement arrests Reacher for vagrancy, they are naively unaware of the trouble they've bought themselves. Reacher forms an alliance with a sympathetic female law officer from Hope (providing Reacher the novel's love interest) as he seeks to determine why this company town that revolves around a scrap metal recycling plant and is guarded by a Military Police outpost, wants to exclude strangers so aggressively. While Nothing to Lose provides plenty of drama, and lots of opportunities for Reacher to display his superior hand-to-hand combat skills, his courage and his uncannily accurate internal clock (which we're reminded of ad nauseum), it fails to provide a cohesive, action-driven plot. Reacher seems to continually be making another trip into Dispair to tweak the nose of Thurman, the owner of all that is Dispair, and walking out with nothing but a bruise or two to show for his troubles. Nothing to Lose provides a nice dose of distraction for fans of Reacher, but it isn't one of Child's best. ...more Not one of Child's best but still better than what many others are writing. At first I thought the story was going to be a bit corny. The towns of Hope and Despair? Give me a break. Walking diagonally across the U.S.? You must be kidding. But, that's how Reacher is. That's the Persona that Child has created so if I suspend my disbelief and buy into the fantasy, as I have in all the previous books, then I can relax and enjoy. The fact that Reacher would go back to a town that had arrested and depo Not one of Child's best but still better than what many others are writing. At first I thought the story was going to be a bit corny. The towns of Hope and Despair? Give me a break. Walking diagonally across the U.S.? You must be kidding. But, that's how Reacher is. That's the Persona that Child has created so if I suspend my disbelief and buy into the fantasy, as I have in all the previous books, then I can relax and enjoy. The fact that Reacher would go back to a town that had arrested and deported him as a vagrant is totally consistent with his personality and how he moseys through life. Someday he'll have to stop because of age or infirmities but for now, this is the life he's chosen after spending the better part of his life in the military as an Army brat and then as an MP officer. The description of the brainwashed denizens of Despair is a little bit out there but given the the real life events in Jonestown, Guyana, the true believers in Despair don't seem that unbelievable. That along with the metal processing plant and its secrets made the story suspenseful with more than its share of surprises. Personally, I didn't get clear about what was going on much sooner than Reacher did. That's a good thing. The story starts slow but when the plot begins to unfold, it moves pretty quickly. Besides it was fun trying to figure out what was really going on as Reacher was doing the same thing. If you are a Reacher fan, you'll like this story. If you aren't, you might want to make your first Reacher Novel, one of the earlier books. ...more Books in the Lee Child's Reacher series end up competing with themselves. Jack Reacher, as a character, has been created in such a wonderful manner, oozing such charm, and a kind of arrogance coupled with a no-nonsense attitude to bring down the bad guys, that it is difficult to not want to be on those adventurous journeys he so regularly takes. The only problem lies that once you complete one journey, you want the other one to be better and the next one to be even better and so on... Lee Child, Books in the Lee Child's Reacher series end up competing with themselves. Jack Reacher, as a character, has been created in such a wonderful manner, oozing such charm, and a kind of arrogance coupled with a no-nonsense attitude to bring down the bad guys, that it is difficult to not want to be on those adventurous journeys he so regularly takes. The only problem lies that once you complete one journey, you want the other one to be better and the next one to be even better and so on... Lee Child, I feel has delivered that to a large extent. He has grown as an author and along with his books Jack Reacher has grown as a character, almost to assume a larger-than-life role for many readers. Nothing to Lose remains true to those characteristics of Reacher, this time throwing in the admirable character of the lady Inspector Vaughan as an accomplice. Reacher is out to figure out what is going on behind the scenes in the small town called Despair from where he has been thrown out as a vagrant. The book starts off at a much slower pace but keeps on building up to reach a rather pulsating finish. What this book does lack though is that the importance of the on-going crime hits the readers way later in the book and till then it all appears like a relatively mundane problem as compared to the situations Reacher has found himself in other books. But having said that, one still is aroused at each page to know what Reacher will do in the next page, and that is the kind of writing Lee Child excels in... Waiting to read more of this series! ...more", "Title": "Nothing to Lose"},
