{"Comments": "It's become a cliche to love Jane Austen's books. Her oeuvre is so popular that it has inspired a vast amount of fan fiction, much of it crap. I've been a Janeite for about 15 years and have read all of Miss Austen's works (<---B>excepting her Juvenilia, which I'm saving for a rainy day</---B>). I've also picked up dozens of the fan novels in an effort to extend the stay in her world. I say \"picked up\" rather than read, because a great deal of the fanfic is insufferable and must be tossed after the first cha It's become a cliche to love Jane Austen's books. Her oeuvre is so popular that it has inspired a vast amount of fan fiction, much of it crap. I've been a Janeite for about 15 years and have read all of Miss Austen's works (excepting her Juvenilia, which I'm saving for a rainy day). I've also picked up dozens of the fan novels in an effort to extend the stay in her world. I say \"picked up\" rather than read, because a great deal of the fanfic is insufferable and must be tossed after the first chapter.** \"<+++>Longbourn</+++>\" is one of the exceptions. The simple description is that it is a retelling of \"Pride and Prejudice\" from the servants' point of view. But it goes deeper than just a retelling -- <+++>Longbourn</+++> made the Bennet home come alive. For the first time in all of my readings of P&P, I felt as if I lived in the same house as Miss Elizabeth, Jane, Kitty, Lydia, Mary and Mr.<---F> and Mrs</---F>. Bennet. I know what time the housemaids got up to light the fires and draw the water. I know when the cook began preparing the dinner. I know how the linens got washed, and how muddy it was to walk to Meryton to get supplies. I even know a few secrets about the housekeeper that would have surprised Miss Austen. And this is where the two novels diverge -- <---A>Jo Baker</---A> has created full characters out of the servants, who are almost invisible in P&P. The story is mostly told by Sarah, a housemaid who has been working at Longbourn since she was orphaned at age 6. The cook, Mrs. Hill,<---M> thinks of Sarah as family</---M>, and is worried what will happen to the staff if the estate is entailed away to Mr. Collins. I liked having the servant's perspective on this well-known plot line -- it was a good reminder of how many people were actually affected by Mr. Bennet's lack of a male heir. The story picks up quickly when a new footman named James Smith is hired. Sarah thinks James has a secret and is determined to find out about his past. Meanwhile, her head is turned by a handsome servant who works for Mr. Bingley. Sarah, who reminded me a bit of the headstrong Jane Eyre, thinks that life should be something more than just emptying chamber pots every day and always washing other people's linens. If only someone would take notice of Sarah... I should warn diehard P&P fans that if you're hoping to spend more time swooning over Mr. Darcy, you will be disappointed. Aside from Mr. Wickham, who likes to lurk around the servants and tries to seduce a young maid, the men from P&P are only on the periphery of this story. You'll see more of the Bennets as the servants interact with them, but the \"downstairs\" plot takes its own path. Baker's prose is lovely, and I was enchanted with almost all of the book. My one criticism was that too much time was spent on James' back story, and I was anxious to return to Longbourn. But that is a mere quibble in an otherwise wonderful novel. Three cheers for Jo Baker for bringing the Bennet home to life! **In addition to \"Longbourn,\" my recommendations for the best Jane Austen fanfic are Pamela Aidan's \"An Assembly Such as This\" (part I of a trilogy), \"Jane Fairfax\" by Joan Aiken, and Amanda Grange's series of gentlemen's diaries, such as \"Mr. Darcy's Diary,\" \"Mr. Knightley's Diary,\" \"Colonel Brandon's Diary,\" etc. I declare them charming and delightful reads. ...more Unfortunately I found this to be a stuffy contemporary literary novel in historical clothing, with none of the brio of Austen's own style and little insight to contribute about the characters or story of Pride and Prejudice . There's not much logic in how the plot of this book fits in with the above-stairs developments of Pride and Prejudice . The action of Longbourn doesn't consist of previously unseen repercussions of those familiar events, nor does it posit any new motives or influences that pro Unfortunately I found this to be a stuffy contemporary literary novel in historical clothing, with none of the brio of Austen's own style and little insight to contribute about the characters or story of Pride and Prejudice . There's not much logic in how the plot of this book fits in with the above-stairs developments of Pride and Prejudice . The action of Longbourn doesn't consist of previously unseen repercussions of those familiar events, nor does it posit any new motives or influences that provide alternate explanations for them. At times, it feels as though Baker's characters are waiting for something to happen in P&P, which only makes sense if you see the plot of P&P as necessary or guaranteed--which you can't, because the characters in that book are frequently surprised by news, choices, and revelations of the past. Wickham appears here as a scoundrel, which we already knew, and the author seems very pleased with her insight that Mr. Collins and Mary would have made a good match--something that I think every reader of P&P perceives and a luscious bit of permanently unresolved dramatic irony on Austen's part. Baker adds backstory for a few major characters that can't feel consequential because it's entirely unmanifested in P&P. Unlike Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead which you could superficially say interacts with Hamlet the same way this wants to with P&P, this book doesn't provide us with any cleverly interlocking alternate explanations, new plot twists, thematic extension, or characterization. Baker tries too hard to convince us of her commitment to gritty historical realism; her frequent mentions of chamberpots, menstruation, mud, etc. are cloying and to me seem to lack historical logic. Would someone of that period spend so much time thinking about the dirtier aspects of existence, or would they view them as given, as background? I'd much rather read something that also acknowledges the beauty of historical times, like, for example, the passage in Doomsday Book about the snowy medieval Christmas. Notably, Doomsday Book has plenty of gross scenes--the point is that it has both, whereas this book perhaps unconsciously betrays a modern viewpoint by dealing mostly in grime and unpleasantness. Similarly, there are moments where the protagonist, Sarah, acts in bold or independent ways that seem implausible for a character of her station in that period and unjustified by her personality. They seem like things a modern young woman would do, so they only work if you are putting yourself into the story in her shoes. I've complained a lot about this novel's relationship to P&P. Can it be considered successful as a freestanding novel? Yes, somewhat, it's just that then it is a novel in a genre that I almost never enjoy. Several reviewers have said that Baker writes like Austen, which I don't think is remotely true. Austen wrote a brisk drama/comedy of manners; this is a ponderous romance. Austen was matter-of-fact and sometimes pert; this is self-serious and tries to assign mystic import to even prosaic life events. Austen requires you to read between the lines of straightforward-seeming dialogue and descriptions to discover a character's motives or mindset. Baker writes paragraph-long descriptions of roadside foliage that are a single sentence. Austen dealt in interpersonal relationships and power imbalances; Baker is keen on totemic objects like James's collection of seashells. The plot didn't work for me on its own; there were several key moments of this book where something was revealed with great pomp and circumstance that I'd figured out long before, and I honestly couldn't figure out whether Baker meant the scenes as actual plot twists or satisfying resolutions of what the reader had begun to suspect. I found Sarah likable, but there was something so soft-focus and arbitrary about her relationship with James that I didn't care much about them. Obviously I considered this novel thought-provoking enough to finish, but I didn't find it a success. Read it if you like current woman-oriented literary fiction; skip it if you like Austen's wit. Review copy received from Edelweiss. ...more Hoo, boy. Where do I start? Actually, that's easy. Any review of Longbourn should feature this warning right at the top: If you are an Austen purist, this book will give you a stroke and a heart attack and possibly cancer. So there's that. Oh, also: Any novel written by a non-servant is apparently required by law to feature at least one passage in which a character who is a servant will ponder life as a person of leisure and decide, \"Naw. Overrated.\" Yeah. THAT happened. I wanted to adore this book Hoo, boy. Where do I start? Actually, that's easy. Any review of Longbourn should feature this warning right at the top: If you are an Austen purist, this book will give you a stroke and a heart attack and possibly cancer. So there's that. Oh, also: Any novel written by a non-servant is apparently required by law to feature at least one passage in which a character who is a servant will ponder life as a person of leisure and decide, \"Naw. Overrated.\" Yeah. THAT happened. I wanted to adore this book because I'm tired of people talking about how lovely life was in the Regency. No, it wasn't. Not even if you were rich, although that was *miles* better than being poor. Even if you were rich, there was no plumbing, very little in the way of social mobility, and nothing remotely resembling a maxi pad, let alone a tampon. (Not even, in spite of what the author of Longbourn says, any \"napkins.\" Where would you put one? There wasn't anything in the way of underwear as we know it. See Susanne Alleyn's awesome Medieval Underpants and Other Blunders for convincing evidence of that.) There was no reliable birth control, and no quick-and-easy food for those nights when you just don't feel like cooking. Women spent all day preparing or looking after the work of food preparation, and routinely wrote their wills when they became pregnant. There were no no-fault divorces, and very few \"he's TOTALLY at fault\" divorces even if your husband was an adulterous batterer. And -- I'm saving the worst for last here -- there was NO CHOCOLATE. Okay, there was a drink called chocolate, but it was outrageously expensive and it wasn't sweet. I love Austen's novels, but I have no illusions about the era in which she lived and wrote. I worked as a live-in domestic myself, and I'm constantly thinking about the servants who made those leisured lives possible. So I was excited to read Longbourn, a retelling of Pride & Prejudice from the vantage point of one of the Bennet's housemaids. I was sold when I read the pull-quote every review featured: \"If Elizabeth Bennet had the washing of her own petticoats, Sarah often thought, she'd most likely be a sight more careful with them.\" Perfect. Think about that the next time you read the scene in P&P where Lizzy shows up at Bingley's house with her petticoat three inches deep in mud. I admire Jo Baker's determination to show the story from a different angle. Her premise is solid, her prose beautiful. So why am I so put-out by this book? Partly because it's a bummer from beginning to end. It's Les Miserables without the funny musical numbers. I think it's just as dehumanizing to servants to assume their lives are endless misery as it is to ignore them. Yes, this book has a happy ending, technically. But it starts out bleak, it continues dire, and it crosses the finish line with a vague \"So that turned out okay, I guess.\" Speaking of bleak: Anyone who's read Bleak House will probably not find the \"surprise middle\" of Longbourn particularly surprising. Many who have read P&P will find aspects of it offensive. Jo Baker takes a lot of liberties with P&P. I never thought of myself as a purist, but this bothered me. For instance, she insists on following the heavily trod (trodden? trode? whatever) path of Mary Bennet being infatuated with Mr. Collins. Know what it says in the book about that? \"Mary might have been prevailed on to accept him. She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others; there was a solidity in his reflections which often struck her, and though by no means so clever as herself, she thought that if encouraged to read and improve himself by such an example as her's [sic], he might become a very agreeable companion.\" \"She thinks he's a fixer-upper,\" my husband commented when I read this to him. But everybody -- movie-makers, Austen \"sequel\" writers -- somehow turns this into Mary adoring Mr. Collins from afar and longing to have him as her own. And of course Baker follows suit. She also features quotations from P&P at the beginning of every chapter. Except in the flashback section, where they wouldn't make sense. Except I don't think they make sense anywhere. What are they supposed to be? Messages from God? Anyway. Back to the liberties. Mary's in love. Mr. Collins is a really nice guy, not at all pompous or judgmental. Mr. Bennet has a lot of lines, and one of them is cuttingly sarcastic. One. Are you ishing me? Speaking of ish: Baker talks about it a lot. By name. It is, apparently, everywhere in Regency England. You couldn't open your carriage door without smacking into a load of ish. I'm surprised the publisher didn't offer a special scratch-and-sniff edition of Longbourn, just to get the point across. Point being: Wow, you guys, was there a lot of manure in the bad old days. You know what there wasn't? The kind of 21st-century thinking Baker gives her miserable underclass characters. The line about how Miss Bennet could be a little more careful of her things was perfect. But there's no way a teenaged maidservant in the eighteenth century was thinking, \"Really no one should have to deal with another person's dirty linen.\" Really? This little revolutionary decided all on her own not that laundry day sucks -- a sentiment that holds true to this very day -- but that all people should have the doing of their own underthings? Similarly, Mrs. Hill the housekeeper is often burdened by Mrs. Bennet's emotional demands. Mrs. Hill has quite enough work to do to fill her day already without having to offer a shoulder to cry on just when the bread is rising. That works. I love that. This very Mrs. Hill -- overworked, miserable, a character who seems to exist only to be taken advantage of -- is the one who decides near the end of the book that, really, there's not much difference between living as a servant and being a genteel lady. \"The end was all the same.\" I mentioned this is a happy book, right? The writing is very, very good. The author has clearly done her research, and it shows without seeming show-offy. But in the end, this book was just. A. Bummer. ...more You'll think that I'm being silly and hyperbolic when I say books like this are the purpose that historical fiction is meant to serve but I mean it very sincerely. Don't pick this book up wanting to swoon over Elizabeth and Darcy, or expecting the narrative focus to be on the story Austen told in P&P. It's not about that. It's about giving voice to the voiceless, fleshing out the ghosts that would otherwise fade and be shred to pieces before the onslaught of time. Blue coat, black horse: tha You'll think that I'm being silly and hyperbolic when I say books like this are the purpose that historical fiction is meant to serve but I mean it very sincerely. Don't pick this book up wanting to swoon over Elizabeth and Darcy, or expecting the narrative focus to be on the story Austen told in P&P. It's not about that. It's about giving voice to the voiceless, fleshing out the ghosts that would otherwise fade and be shred to pieces before the onslaught of time. Blue coat, black horse: that was Mr. Bingley. The great tall fellow in the green was Mr. Darcy again. They clipped past the orchard, in profile and oblivious to the housemaids: Sarah felt herself fade. She could see the leaves and branches through her hand; the sun shone straight through her skin. And now I can't wait to go back through P&P and ferret out all the glimpses of Sarah and her ilk from which Jo Baker spun this tale. Longbourn is simply tremendous. It's the world of Austen made real, Austen in context , with all the mud and blood and shit that comes with that. And it's so deep and beautiful and heart-stoppingly real that I'm in awe. I didn't expect to feel so strongly about Longbourn when I first picked it up... but it's far and away one of the best books I've read in the past year. Highly recommended. ...more (Reposted from my review at AustenBlog) The publication of Jo Baker\u2019s new novel Longbourn generated the same sort of excitement as the arrival of a single gentleman of good fortune. It has been described as being a cross between Pride and Prejudice and Downton Abbey. When we heard this premise, we were all admiration. What a brilliant idea! Two of the most wildly popular and well-known popular culture properties\u2013now together! It might be the greatest idea since some genius combined chocolate and (Reposted from my review at AustenBlog) The publication of Jo Baker\u2019s new novel Longbourn generated the same sort of excitement as the arrival of a single gentleman of good fortune. It has been described as being a cross between Pride and Prejudice and Downton Abbey. When we heard this premise, we were all admiration. What a brilliant idea! Two of the most wildly popular and well-known popular culture properties\u2013now together! It might be the greatest idea since some genius combined chocolate and peanut butter. The Commercial Publishing Industrial Complex has predictably lost its mind over it; frankly, we are astonished that its publication did not rip open the fabric of the universe, creating a giant black hole that sucked us all into it. While this soundbyte selling point makes it simple for publishers and booksellers, we think it has done the authoress a disservice. We think Ms. Baker was shooting for something less mercenary and more ambitious: the Wide Sargasso Sea of the Jane Austen oeuvre; by which we mean a paraliterature title that strives for literary achievement as well as, or perhaps even more than, popularity. We have long wondered why no one has written such a novel. Sadly, Longbourn did not work for us, either as ambitious literary fiction or as a P&P/Downton mashup. There is nothing of the elegance of Downton Abbey, and a Pride and Prejudice that we do not recognize. The story takes place almost entirely belowstairs at Longbourn, domain of the long-suffering Mrs. Hill; the butler, Mr. Hill; the two maidservants, Sarah and Polly; and the footman, James. The foreground story is their melodramas and heartbreak (and there is a lot of both), while the familiar story of Pride and Prejudice unfolds in the background like a dimly heard radio play. Sarah is pretty much the main character. She is fascinated with one of Bingley\u2019s manservants, a freed slave who impresses her with his sophistication and tells her stories of London. Sarah finds James annoying, and she is convinced he is a Bad Man who will cause trouble and wait a minute, haven\u2019t we read this story before? The link to Pride and Prejudice seems tenuous to us, other than perhaps the romantic triangle. The Bennets could afford more than two maidservants, and it\u2019s silly to say otherwise. The Bateses in Emma could afford to employ a maidservant; surely the Bennets could employ more than two. If Ms. Baker truly wanted to tell the story of the servants of Pride and Prejudice \u2014and link it to the wildly popular Downton Abbey\u2014it would have been better to give the Bennets a fuller complement of servants. If she wanted to write about overworked servants in Austen\u2019s time, don\u2019t give them to the Bennets. Why not the Lucases, for instance? They are certainly involved in the main story; or perhaps another neighbor. If the idea really was that marketable mashup, it would have equal commercial potential marketed as a servant\u2019s story in Jane Austen\u2019s time, set in the world of her novels. We are probably not the audience for this, being on record as unappreciative of Gritty Realism\u2122. We acknowledge that it existed in that time, and we acknowledge that it is present in Austen\u2019s novels if one looks for it; but Austen\u2019s pen famously did not dwell on guilt and misery, and the darker aspects of her world are sketched in lightly, shadowing the background upon which her characters are drawn. Ms. Baker seems to be determined to inform the reader that life in that time\u2014at least for the servant class\u2014was dark, dingy, dangerous, unpleasant, painful\u2014and there is nothing wrong with that, but if some information is enlightening, then too much becomes a blunt object concussing the reader. (One is sometimes truly stunned by the imagery: for instance, militia officers converge on the Phillips\u2019 house like \u201clice on a beggar\u2019s head.\u201d) We struggled through this book, constantly pulled out of it by this determination to dunk Austen\u2019s work in a literary mud puddle. It seems to us a subversion of Pride and Prejudice , not a celebration of it. No doubt that is purposeful, but it does not interest us; and marketing it to Austen fans seems disingenuous. There seems to be a determination to make us think ill of Austen\u2019s characters for committing the sin of making work for the servants. If the somewhat sanitized version of Georgian/Regency England portrayed in many Austen film adaptations is overly romantic, wallowing in filth, poverty, and misery has a romance of its own that is equally dangerous. We still like the idea of a P&P/Downton mashup, but we would have preferred something different: a properly big cast of servants and a jolly, rollicking tale of belowstairs hijinks. There would be work\u2013hard work, sometimes dirty work, and all the squalid details of bodily fluids could have been worked in if absolutely necessary\u2013but more importantly, it would have been fun , and the companion piece that Austen\u2019s \u201clight, bright, and sparkling\u201d masterpiece deserved. Longbourn is ambitious and beautifully written; we wish we could like it, but we cannot. ...more Jane Austen meets Downton Abbey is the crude shorthand, but this novel is so much more. I hardly dare say it (Janeites are a fearsome bunch; such talk could get me lynched): Could this be better than the original? Pride and Prejudice , that is. Perhaps better is not the right word, but fuller : Baker\u2019s is a fully convincing and unbiased vision of early nineteenth-century English life, featuring multiple classes and races \u2013 and it doesn\u2019t airbrush away unpleasant bodily realities. Longbourn is (for Jane Austen meets Downton Abbey is the crude shorthand, but this novel is so much more. I hardly dare say it (Janeites are a fearsome bunch; such talk could get me lynched): Could this be better than the original? Pride and Prejudice , that is. Perhaps better is not the right word, but fuller : Baker\u2019s is a fully convincing and unbiased vision of early nineteenth-century English life, featuring multiple classes and races \u2013 and it doesn\u2019t airbrush away unpleasant bodily realities. Longbourn is (for the most part) meticulously contemporaneous with the action of Pride and Prejudice . A house the size of Longbourn was run by a small band of servants; all Baker has done in the way of invention is to give faces and stories to those previously nameless below-stairs characters \u2013 expanded roles for Mr. and Mrs. Hill (the latter both housekeeper and cook); young maids Sarah and Polly; and a new footman with murky origins, James Smith. Our protagonist, housemaid Sarah, is a feisty heroine from the lineage of both Elizabeth Bennet and Jane Eyre; indeed, the first line is particularly reminiscent of Jane Eyre : \u201cThere could be no wearing of clothes without their laundering.\u201d Like Miss Eyre, Sarah is an eager orphan who turns to books for temporary escape from her troubles; like Lizzie, she faces a similar choice between two very different suitors; and again like Jane, she will set off on a fraught, solitary adventure to secure true love. Baker builds sympathy for her characters by shifting between third person limited perspectives; usually that point-of-view will be one of the servants\u2019, as in Sarah\u2019s view of Jane Bennet: \u201cShe was as sweet, soothing and undemanding as a baked milk-pudding.\u201d But occasionally readers are privy to the thoughts of one of the Bennets themselves; here is Mary, for example: \u201cthe distraction of those silly sisters\u2026If they could but think of higher things, of music, religion, good works, instead of officers.\u201d For the most part, though, we are limited to knowing whatever the servants can overhear or imply. The Bennets\u2019 utter obliviousness to the reality of life for the lower classes is slyly juxtaposed with a growing awareness of the brutality of slavery. Even on the second page Baker shows concern for those \u201cpeople of color\u201d omitted from Austen\u2019s world: \u201cthe sun would be shining on other places still, on the Barbadoes and Antigua and Jamaica where the dark men worked half-naked, and on the Americas where the Indians wore almost no clothes at all.\u201d Footman James is a committed abolitionist, with a copy of Wilberforce by his bedside, and Baker gives a significant role to a new black character, Ptolemy, the Bingleys\u2019 footman (who turns Sarah\u2019s head). Baker expertly mimics Austen\u2019s trademark use of free indirect speech and witticisms. A prime example is when Sarah is sent out in the pouring rain to fetch decorations for the Bennet girls\u2019 dancing shoes (whereas the original text has the anonymous and passive \u201cthe very shoe-roses for Netherfield were got by proxy\u201d). Sarah never has to open her mouth to issue this deliciously snide response: \u201cThe ladies could like the shoe-roses or they could lump them. Indeed, she would rather like it if they lumped them. She rather looked forward to their having to lump them.\u201d The epigraphs heading each chapter come directly from Pride and Prejudice , but I only found one line of word-for-word lifted dialogue in the main text \u2013 eagle-eyed Austenites, correct me if I am wrong, and let me know if you spot the same line I picked up on! [If you search the P&P e-book (free here on Project Gutenberg), you\u2019ll be interested to learn that there are in fact allusions to a Longbourn footman and a serving Sarah, in chapters 7 and 55, respectively.] Where Longbourn diverges most noticeably from Pride and Prejudice is in its unflinching portrayal of the physical reality of early nineteenth-century life: chilblains, scars, lice, reeking chamber pots, animal slaughter, napkins soaked with menstrual blood, even underarm hair ( you mean the Bennet girls had hairy pits?! \u2013 say it ain\u2019t so! ). Even behind the fine appearances of the Netherfield ball guests, all Sarah can see is \u201cthe same old freckles and wrinkles and bad breath and smallpox scars and limping gout...Her envy puffed up into smoke and was gone on the wind.\u201d Nonetheless, I don\u2019t think there\u2019s anything here that will upset Austen lovers, while there is plenty that should draw in new fans. I think Longbourn might particularly appeal to those male readers who have previously professed that Austen isn\u2019t their cup of tea: who are too jaded and knowing, or just too darn cool, for this chick stuff. They will find that there is just the right level of earthiness here to root the romantic plot in reality. Kudos to Jo Baker, and bon app\u00e9tit to all you lucky readers who soon get to encounter this terrific novel for the first time. (A slightly expanded version of this review is at Bookkaholic .) ...more I read five chapters and then I admitted defeat. I threw up my arms through a sea of frothy pink fluff and pushed it aside and emerged, if not a better person, then at least a relieved one with one less cloud in my world. To be fair, I'm not the audience for any kind of romance except perhaps classics. But I am fascinated with Jane Austen and having recently read A.A. Milne's superlative stage play Miss Elizabeth Bennet , I felt I would like to read more books directly descended from Pride and Pre I read five chapters and then I admitted defeat. I threw up my arms through a sea of frothy pink fluff and pushed it aside and emerged, if not a better person, then at least a relieved one with one less cloud in my world. To be fair, I'm not the audience for any kind of romance except perhaps classics. But I am fascinated with Jane Austen and having recently read A.A. Milne's superlative stage play Miss Elizabeth Bennet , I felt I would like to read more books directly descended from Pride and Prejudice . After Colin Firth is it possible to have too much Darcy? Is it possible to have too much chocolate? Is it possible to have too much candy floss? Yes, to the last, sadly it is. And was. DNF. A note on the writing. It wasn't Jane Austen. It wasn't A.A. Milne. It wasn't bad in any way. But it was perfectly one-note, shallow, clear and descriptive and left me in no doubt that what I saw was what I got. That's all. Maybe this is par for the genre. If you enjoy period romances, then you might love the book, this review is my impression and not one that should influence you in any way. ...more The best word to describe this book is unpleasant. It was a very unpleasant reading experience. But I can and will be more specific. First of all, technically, this is a Pride and Prejudice retelling from the point of view of the Longbourn servants. Good idea, right? I sure thought so. And honestly, there are some very good things in here. I was very interested in hearing what kind of daily tasks made the Bennett lifestyle possible. There's also a few great parts where you really see how much th The best word to describe this book is unpleasant. It was a very unpleasant reading experience. But I can and will be more specific. First of all, technically, this is a Pride and Prejudice retelling from the point of view of the Longbourn servants. Good idea, right? I sure thought so. And honestly, there are some very good things in here. I was very interested in hearing what kind of daily tasks made the Bennett lifestyle possible. There's also a few great parts where you really see how much the servants care about each other. But then. First of all, there's a terrible sexual awakening subplot. I'm sorry, if I wanted to read a romance novel, I would read a romance novel. Second, there's a really long flashback sequence about war, which has nothing to do with Pride and Prejudice at all. If you want to write about the horrors of war, that's fine, but don't just say it's a Pride and Prejudice retelling to increase your audience. That's cheap. Third, for someone who says she loves Pride and Prejudice, the author sure spends a lot of time trying to convince readers that all of those beloved characters are d-bags. Seriously, the only one of the Bennett's who comes out looking OK in this book is Mary. Of course, and I'm sure this wasn't intentional, the main character, Sarah, is not a joy to read about either. Stop whining, you whiner! Fourth, the narrative is really all over the place. One paragraph will be from Mrs. Hill's POV, then suddenly we'll switch to Polly, then to James for a second, and back to Mrs. Hill, then maybe one of the Bennet kids will have a say. Get it together, author! Finally, the love triangle is so ridiculous. Tol is clearly more interesting and fun, and the only reason that Sarah prefers James is to make the (really stupid) plot twist towards the end more shocking/meaningful. There you have it. I did not enjoy this book, even though I fully expected to. I'm not sure why it's gotten such good reviews, but take it from me-if you want a good servant story, stick with Upstairs Downstairs or Downton Abbey. ...more I adore Jane Austen, and I was dreading reading this take on Pride & Prejudice from the servants' point of view. I thought it was a crass cash-grab on Baker's part, and that I'd spend the entire novel longing to reread P & P. I couldn't have been more wrong! I got entirely wrapped up in the story of Sarah, a servant at Longbourn, and felt impatient even with brief mentions of favorite characters (Jane, Elizabeth), who seemed selfish, boring, and clueless because of their wealth. Cruciall I adore Jane Austen, and I was dreading reading this take on Pride & Prejudice from the servants' point of view. I thought it was a crass cash-grab on Baker's part, and that I'd spend the entire novel longing to reread P & P. I couldn't have been more wrong! I got entirely wrapped up in the story of Sarah, a servant at Longbourn, and felt impatient even with brief mentions of favorite characters (Jane, Elizabeth), who seemed selfish, boring, and clueless because of their wealth. Crucially, this novel does NOT feel like a gimmick; it's beautiful and literary, and stands on its own--non-fans of Austen will love it too, I think. ...more Three and a Half Stars. In the Author\u2019s Note at the end of Longbourn , Jo Baker writes, One final note: in Pride and Prejudice the footman appears just once in the text, when he delivers a note to Jane (page 31 of Volume One, in my Penguin Classics edition). After that, he is never mentioned again. Well, that is an undeniable fact. But what are we to glean from this tidbit? That Baker found her inspiration from this one tiny glimmer into the world behind the scenes? That Austen was remiss in show Three and a Half Stars. In the Author\u2019s Note at the end of Longbourn , Jo Baker writes, One final note: in Pride and Prejudice the footman appears just once in the text, when he delivers a note to Jane (page 31 of Volume One, in my Penguin Classics edition). After that, he is never mentioned again. Well, that is an undeniable fact. But what are we to glean from this tidbit? That Baker found her inspiration from this one tiny glimmer into the world behind the scenes? That Austen was remiss in showing only the \u201cUpstairs\u201d of early nineteenth century English country life? Much has been written about Jane Austen\u2019s omission of socio-political context in her novels, but in the end we are left with the stories as she chose to tell them. Full stop. In the same author\u2019s note, Jo Baker tells us she has \u201cinterfered only so far as the give names to the unnamed\u2014the butler, footman, and the second housemaid.\u201d There ensued a great spluttering of coffee, coughing, and general wiping up. The plot itself depends upon interferences large and small! Early on Mrs. Hill, the Bennet\u2019s cook and housekeeper, enters Mr. Bennet\u2019s library and closes the door. A central twist of the story is predicated on a very mighty interference, indeed. I\u2019m not convinced that anyone who has read Pride and Prejudice can accurately assess whether Longbourn could stand on its own, a story complete. Well, for heaven\u2019s sake, of course it couldn\u2019t. It wouldn\u2019t exist without Pride and Prejudice . But that\u2019s not really what I mean. I mean that it\u2019s built upon the backs of Austen\u2019s characters. Little has to be done by way of introducing or maintaining this supporting cast, which is what the Bennet femmes et homme and their society neighbors are in this below-stairs account of life at Longbourne. We who know Elizabeth, Darcy and Wickham have already colored between those lines and need little in the way of further fleshing out. For this first half of this novel, I said a resounding \u201cNo. There is no there here.\u201d Longbourn \u2014although far from an Austen pastiche\u2014reads like a meticulously researched and lovingly crafted vignette of servant life in a middle-class Regency home. There seems to be little point beyond showing the difficulties and deprivations of a life in service and to point out that even in Georgian England, people pooped, masturbated and menstruated. Then the novel enters its stride. Although I never lost the twitch of discomfort that Jo Baker was trying to make up for some absence of verisimilitude in the original, the characters begin to live on their own accord, as if the author herself snipped the ties constraining her to Pride and Prejudice . It\u2019s somewhere around the time Wickham ventures into the kitchen to leer at Polly and we see each servant\u2019s response to his trespass that we fully, finally, enter the world of distinct, complete characters who have more to offer than chilblains and chamber pots. Baker won me over, however, with Longbourn's enigmatic footman, James Smith. She creates a haunting portrait of a soldier\u2019s experience during Napolean\u2019s \u201cGuerilla\u201d war in Spain and Portugal. Equally moving, though much briefer, is a recounting of Mrs. Hill\u2019s troubles at Longbourn in the era before she became Mrs. Hill. From these points forward, the characters above stairs become more than ciphers and those below stairs develop backstories and backbones. Jo Baker\u2019s writing, though at times heavy-handed with the metaphors, is lovely. She maintains a formal, dignified diction that feels just right for the period and place, without trying to emulate Austen\u2019s vivacity and wit. She sprinkles in jarring vulgarities and peers inside chamber pots to let us know if they contain solids as well as liquids\u2014all of which seems a bit forced, as if she were trying too hard to distance herself from Austen gentility\u2014but the moments are brief and tolerable. Longbourn is a very engaging and enjoyable read. The quality of writing is such that I will seek out Jo Baker\u2019s other novels and look forward to her next, though I hope she is finished outfitting 19th century classics with 21st century hindsight. ...more Attention anyone who wants to think of Jane Austenland as pretty-pretty with no blood, sweat, sex (in any form at all) and magical elves to do the housework: AVOID THIS BOOK Still with me? This book includes discussions of soiled diapers and menstrual napkins--well,no washing machines, let alone Pampers or Tampax! And there is a mention of underarm hair, something which clearly should shock any modern man or woman of \"normal\" proclivities. Speaking of which, there are sexual practices mentioned in t Attention anyone who wants to think of Jane Austenland as pretty-pretty with no blood, sweat, sex (in any form at all) and magical elves to do the housework: AVOID THIS BOOK Still with me? This book includes discussions of soiled diapers and menstrual napkins--well,no washing machines, let alone Pampers or Tampax! And there is a mention of underarm hair, something which clearly should shock any modern man or woman of \"normal\" proclivities. Speaking of which, there are sexual practices mentioned in this book that include  homosexuality (nothing explicit), masturbation (again, no real details) and out of wedlock sex. This last horror can apparently can produce {gasp!}PREGNANCY! Gee, they never taught me that in Abstinence Education! Plus a certain character already known to be slimy by anyone who has read Austen attempts to molest a young servant. Shocking! How terribly, terribly unlike what went on in 19th century England! And there are servants doing hard, sweaty, smelly, unpleasant work behind the scenes,carefully allowing the Bennetts, the Darcys and the Bingleys to live in their pretty-pretty Austen world. These are the characters this book focuses on. Baker uses the plot and characters of Austen's book as foils for these people. She is clever is leaving Jane, Elizabeth and the other main characters mainly in the shadows. You can see where we are in the plot without seeing most of the Austen plot, and it's fine, because it's Sarah, Polly, the Hills and the other servants who are the full fleshed characters here. This is NOT an attempt at writing pseudo-Austen---and most of those books are spectacular failures. What it is is modern historical fiction, starting with the characters and plot of the original book, but just using them as a jumping off point. You could read this not knowing a jot about Pride and Prejudice and enjoy it just as much. I was going to give this book 4 stars and wanted to give it 4 1/2. But because of the stupid nonsense (including some homophobic crap) I have read among other reviewers here, I am giving this 5 stars. ...more 2.5 \u2022 The premise is interesting. It is. I also enjoyed the first part; but after a while, the story started to drag on and on, and I started to not see the point of it anymore. \u2022 Some of the things that happen are completely -or almost- inconsequential . In addition, the story supposedly focuses on Sarah, one of the two housemaids of the Bennets' household. The thing is, sometimes the focus shifts, at length and in detail, to the Bennets themselves, which, I think, was rather useless if our concern 2.5 \u2022 The premise is interesting. It is. I also enjoyed the first part; but after a while, the story started to drag on and on, and I started to not see the point of it anymore. \u2022 Some of the things that happen are completely -or almost- inconsequential . In addition, the story supposedly focuses on Sarah, one of the two housemaids of the Bennets' household. The thing is, sometimes the focus shifts, at length and in detail, to the Bennets themselves, which, I think, was rather useless if our concern is the below-stairs world. Long story short: the book could have been half of what it actually is. I was bored . I was uninterested. \u2022I found Sarah to be excruciatingly dull . I wanted to care about what happened to her, but I didn't. She gave me no reason to. \u2022 Mrs Hill's secret left me speechless. I loved it, though I didn't love how it was handled because again, Baker's storytelling and I didn't exactly connect. When I started the book, knowing it was about the lives of the servant of Longbourn, I imagined something like this, I think, a plot like the one hidden in Mrs Hill's past. Not that I expected it and wouldn't have been happy with anything else, but it didn't surprise me that something of that sort was at work here. But again, the focus was wrong: it is treated almost as an incidental fact with little importance. I would have loved to dive deeper into Mrs Hill's mind, for example, or to know how James dealt with (view spoiler) [the secret of his birth (hide spoiler) ] throughout his life. \u27bd The potential was all there, as I see it; if only it had been written differently, it would have been a great book. But the way things are, I don't think I'd recommend it. ...more \"What can a woman do, all on her own, and unsupported?\" asks Elizabeth. \"Work,\" the maid answers. I was worried that I wasn't going to be able to keep up with the characters in LONGBOURN without having a re-read of Pride and Prejudice, but luckily there wasn't a need... [image error] LONGBOURN is a novel based on the servants in the beloved Bennet household- I have to say reading about the Bennet family from the point of view of the people waiting on them hand and foot- made them come off quite sp \"What can a woman do, all on her own, and unsupported?\" asks Elizabeth. \"Work,\" the maid answers. I was worried that I wasn't going to be able to keep up with the characters in LONGBOURN without having a re-read of Pride and Prejudice, but luckily there wasn't a need... [image error] LONGBOURN is a novel based on the servants in the beloved Bennet household- I have to say reading about the Bennet family from the point of view of the people waiting on them hand and foot- made them come off quite spoiled and a little less charming than they did in Pride and Prejudice. The main characters in THIS story are: Sarah- A intelligent and bookish servant. Sarah misses the life she had while her parents were still alive, and longs to see the world outside of LONGBOURN someday. Mrs Hill- A loyal housekeeper charged with the day-to-day running of the household, who keeps a watchful eye on all the goings on in the Bennet's household. Mr Hill- The aging butler who isn't able to fulfill his duties quite as much as he used to when he was a younger man. Polly- The youngest female servant. An orphan who has never known any other life other than serving others...but isn't very good at it. and James- The new and mysterious footman. James has piqued the interest of Sarah, but will he let her close enough to learn his secrets? Fans of the novel- Pride and Predjudice, the TV show- Downton Abbey, and the movie- Gosford Park should love Jo Baker's take on the lives of characters who usually stay silent in the back round. I received an advanced reader's copy of this novel from First-Reads. ...more When I first heard about Longbourn - a kind of Downton Abbey meets Pride and Prejudice, telling the stories of the staff serving The Bennet family - I was very excited and couldn't wait to start reading. I was very fortunate to receive an early proof copy a few months back and eagerly began to read while on a break in Devon. I wanted to love it. I ended up feeling the complete opposite... I am a huge fan of Pride and Prejudice. I read it about once a year to enjoy the wit, romance and the cast o When I first heard about Longbourn - a kind of Downton Abbey meets Pride and Prejudice, telling the stories of the staff serving The Bennet family - I was very excited and couldn't wait to start reading. I was very fortunate to receive an early proof copy a few months back and eagerly began to read while on a break in Devon. I wanted to love it. I ended up feeling the complete opposite... I am a huge fan of Pride and Prejudice. I read it about once a year to enjoy the wit, romance and the cast of brilliant characters. I think it's fair to say that most fans of the book enjoy it for the same reason - some escapism into Georgian society. So why did Jo Baker decide to include so much grimness into Longbourn? I can kind of see why. The elegance and gentleness of the Bennet girls is in stark contrast to what the servants have to do on a daily basis - scrubbing soiled clothes and sheets, making soap from pigs fat and plucking chickens. But do we really need to know about Elizabeth Bennet's monthly courses - I think the all round answer is a firm no. So, to the story. It follows maid Sarah, who works for housekeeper Mrs Hill and her husband alongside a younger girl called Polly. The team are joined by a mysterious footman called James, who suddenly appears and there is instant antagonism between him and Sarah. Meanwhile, Sarah meets the charming Ptolemy, a member of Mr Bingley's staff across at Netherfield, who shows an unhealthy interest in Sarah. Sound familiar? The second part of the book, follows James' history serving his country in war and the horrors of what he had to endure. Again, I can see what the author was trying to do, to explore the juxtaposition between life in Meryton and the life of a soldier, but it just sends the novel astray and it never quite comes back to the world of Pride and Prejudice. None of the new characters introduced are likeable and the author does not show much understanding of the staple Pride and Prejudice characters, never quite catching their voices or characters. (Apart from maybe Mrs Bennet, but then she is such a caricature, she is a very easy character to recreate). Every now and again, the author seems to remember the original story and will throw in a reference here and there, but it hardly ever seems authentic. As the books goes on, it just gets more offensive for me. Not only does it not capture the essence of Pride and Prejudice, but it actually tries to rewrite the much-loved characters and their history. This includes - do not read any further if you do not want spoilers - an affair, illegitimate child, a miscarriage, a Bennett son and a gay relationship. Its almost as if the author had a list of controversial plot lines and was ticking them off as she went along. All completely unnecessary and something which could ruin the original novel for fans. Some of the vulgar language was also uncalled for and terms of endearment such as the over-used 'sweetheart' hardly seem Georgian. I have read many a spin-off or version of Pride and Prejudice, and while they seem indulgent, they are usually quite fun, light-hearted and 'fan-girly' - a celebration of Jane Austen's work. But Longbourn just made me a little frustrated and angry and includes none of the reasons why Pride and Prejudiece is such a timeless classic and has such an army of fans. I have heard mixed reviews for Longbourn, so maybe this is just one that will divide people. I would love to see other reader comments! ...more Dirty linen might seem like a unsavory topic in a novel set in Regency England, but when the linen belongs to the Bennet family from Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice it makes for good reading. Jo Baker's Longbourn is told from the perspective of the downstairs staff: two house maids, the housekeeper, her butler husband, and a mysterious, newly-hired footman. By modern standards this might seem like a excessive number of servants, but in Nineteenth Century England, five menstruating daughters, n Dirty linen might seem like a unsavory topic in a novel set in Regency England, but when the linen belongs to the Bennet family from Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice it makes for good reading. Jo Baker's Longbourn is told from the perspective of the downstairs staff: two house maids, the housekeeper, her butler husband, and a mysterious, newly-hired footman. By modern standards this might seem like a excessive number of servants, but in Nineteenth Century England, five menstruating daughters, not to mention a gaggle of Gardner cousins foisted on the Bennet's for weeks at a time, produce a mountain of laundry for the two beleaguered maids. One day a week is dedicated to it and even the family pitches in: they eat a cold buffet because the maids aren't available to serve in the dining room. The servants sell their labor for the security of a warm bed - sometimes only a pallet on the floor - and regular meals and they enact their revenge in startling ways. When Mr. Hill, the butler, discovers a bit of food stuck to the tines of a fork, he gives it some spit and a shine on his vest before placing on the table. These servants depend on each other for kindness and understanding - even sex -although that shared comfort doesn't preclude an occasional boink with one of their \"betters.\" The airing of the family's metaphorical dirty laundry is front and center in this alternate reality. Baker envisions a plausible back story for the Bennet family - a kind of foreshadowing for Lydia's hushed-up fall from grace and a rationale for the troubled Bennet marriage. She basks in the ironic implications of Mr. Bennet's efforts to save his licentious daughter's reputation while remaining indifferent to the needs of his illegitimate offspring. All of Austen's characters look less attractive when they're viewed through the eyes of their servants. To them Lizzy is known more for her soiled petticoats (all those muddy walks!) than her sparkling wit, and Mrs. Bennet isn't just a hysterical blabber mouth, she is also addicted to narcotics for the treatment of her infamous nerves. Two notable exceptions are sycophantic cousin Collins, and Mary, the pedantic middle sister. Here they are portrayed sympathetically which made me reconsider the delight I took in Austen's satirical skewering. Critics have often chastised Austen for ignoring the turbulence of her times. Baker fills that void by bringing the Napoleonic Wars vividly to life. The flogging of a soldier isn't just a juicy bit of gossip to be chewed on by the gentry. In Baker's hands it becomes a powerful symbol for the hardships and injustices endured by the serving class, whose survival depends on the whim of those they serve. We can thank her for imagining fully realized lives for them, and for sharing her vision without detracting from the magic of Austen's masterpiece. Add a star if you are very familiar with Pride and Prejudice and are not afraid to think outside the box. ...more This is an historical novel, a well crafted one, that gives Austen's original a context. Pride and prejudice is vaguely set during the era of the Napoleonic wars, in Regency England. Beyond the necessity of the militia as an essential plot device, there is little to establish a time period or political context. This not a failing : the intent in P & P is to examine, play with, lampoon and explore the personalities, social niceties and constrictions of a certain family, a certain class of peo This is an historical novel, a well crafted one, that gives Austen's original a context. Pride and prejudice is vaguely set during the era of the Napoleonic wars, in Regency England. Beyond the necessity of the militia as an essential plot device, there is little to establish a time period or political context. This not a failing : the intent in P & P is to examine, play with, lampoon and explore the personalities, social niceties and constrictions of a certain family, a certain class of people in a certain size town. And Austen, indisputably, is a witty and observant master of the art. What Baker has provided is the bigger picture. This novel grounds the Bennets. It reinforces the characters Austen carefully constructed, through the fleshing out of their interactions with their servants. It gives life and personality to the nameless, silent cast who ensure that the untidy Lydia is presentable at Meryton, who ensure that food is on the table when Bingley comes to visit, who wait in the rain to bring the ladies home after a ball. It adds another dimension to our knowledge about the Bennet household and the wider world in which they live. It is not a romantic world: it is hard and sad and unfair. While the Bennet girls are constrained by the niceties of expectations about what a woman is expected to be, and how her life should unfold, their servants' lives are subject to the vicissitudes of life. Mrs Hill surrenders a child and submits to a life that will maintain appearances, but ultimately prove soulless. Sarah loses her family before she is added to the Longbourn staff, and then finds herself shunted between households as she seeks to fashion her own life. James Smith endures the evils of the Peninsula Campaign only to be cast in the role of deserter by a villainous sergeant and to suffer accordingly. There is no justice, no equality, no remonstrance. Life is rarely lovely and satisfaction comes mostly from a gruelling job well done, a full belly and a warmish bed. It's a warts and all retelling of the obverse of P & P. The detail is inked in such a way that its inclusion is artless and necessary without appearing to be an obvious history lesson. It is assimilated with the story; it is not heavy handed, and is entirely believable. To ignore the sometimes unpleasant necessities of life is to remain as deluded as Mrs Bennet and her ilk, and while P & P was written for a different intent and an audience who in the initial years of its release, understood the implied realities of country house life, it is an asset for current day audiences to understand what life at Longbourn entailed. Very enjoyable read. ...more I liked P&P but not a huge Jane Austen fan so didn't go into this feeling all precious about its predecessor. I really wanted to enjoy this book but just couldn't. The swearing is totally out of place, the liberties taken with the characters from P&P are unbelievably awful (sorry) basically feels like Jo Baker is trying desperately to be controversial but it doesn't work. The main character is very likeable and if this had been a stand alone novel about servants at the time (minus the swe I liked P&P but not a huge Jane Austen fan so didn't go into this feeling all precious about its predecessor. I really wanted to enjoy this book but just couldn't. The swearing is totally out of place, the liberties taken with the characters from P&P are unbelievably awful (sorry) basically feels like Jo Baker is trying desperately to be controversial but it doesn't work. The main character is very likeable and if this had been a stand alone novel about servants at the time (minus the sweating and poo) it could have worked. The pretty descriptions of little details such as the wind and flowers seem to have been shoehorned in to make the novel Have a more thoughtful feel. It's a real shame so much potential but falls flat on all accounts! ...more There is an ocean of Austen fan fiction out there, and no book is more extended than Pride and Prejudice . We love to read what happens to Elizabeth and Darcy, whether it's her doughty fight against the undead or how they deal with truly-dead bodies at Pemberley. This book would stand with the best of them. Our hopes are dashed and restored and dashed again. We get love, redemption, missteps, the vile Wickham, and not knowing whether there will be a happy ending until the very end. And the writing There is an ocean of Austen fan fiction out there, and no book is more extended than Pride and Prejudice . We love to read what happens to Elizabeth and Darcy, whether it's her doughty fight against the undead or how they deal with truly-dead bodies at Pemberley. This book would stand with the best of them. Our hopes are dashed and restored and dashed again. We get love, redemption, missteps, the vile Wickham, and not knowing whether there will be a happy ending until the very end. And the writing! Jo Baker's cold mornings make my hands hurt just to read them. But this book goes beyond great fan fiction, and here's why: It takes place mostly during the same time period as P&P, but downstairs : it's about the servants. Jane Austen gave us the restrained, arch, inner life of women of heart, soul, and mind, finding their way in a society that devalues them. Jo Baker gives us the struggle, toil, and worry of people with heart, soul, and mind, in a society where even our beloved Elizabeth finds them almost invisible. The human stories are the heart of the book. But Jo Baker also answers questions we may never have thought to ask: when Elizabeth arrives, muddy-hemmed at Netherfield, who cleans her clothes? In a world without indoor plumbing, what happens to the shit? And when Mr Bennet escapes to his library, who has to cope with his wife? The book is structured to parallel P&P; as Baker said in an interview, \"When a meal is served in Pride and Prejudice , it's prepared downstairs in Longbourn .\" For me, she gives just the right amount of detail about housekeeping practices of the early 1800s. I now know that when you slaughter a pig, it's time to make soap. And I've seen it done. But I couldn't possibly do it myself. Another thing: Books in the \"canon\" are necessarily contained. But here, the outside world plays a role. Servants, after all, know things, and are affected by events, which young women are protected from ever hearing about. This expands the scope of the novel. In Mansfield Park , for example, Fanny asks about slavery and is met with stony silence. Here, we learn that one of Bingley's footmen, Ptolemy Bingley, was born a slave\u2014and we readers, with our 21st-century perspective, wonder if he's Bingley's half-brother. In P&P, the officers of Wickham's regiment, quartered at Meryton, flirt and attend balls. In this book, there is a war going on, and it affects our characters even as the Bennet girls are insulated from its horrors. Oh: and we learn seriously juicy backstory about some of our favorite characters. It's a joy to read, an homage, a tour-de-force. If you're an Austin fan (and you should be) it's a great read. ...more Have you ever thought an author was a good writer, but you didn't like the story they were telling? That's how I feel about this book. The author is good at writing (except for some places that had lengthy and very detailed descriptions. I'm not too interested in that, unless it's historical fiction. That's when I want all the nitty gritty details - of the actual events.) I don't like how she made the Bennett family seem shallow and ... I don't know... It just seed like the author wants to knock Have you ever thought an author was a good writer, but you didn't like the story they were telling? That's how I feel about this book. The author is good at writing (except for some places that had lengthy and very detailed descriptions. I'm not too interested in that, unless it's historical fiction. That's when I want all the nitty gritty details - of the actual events.) I don't like how she made the Bennett family seem shallow and ... I don't know... It just seed like the author wants to knock down Austen fans' love for this story. She wanted to put the harsh realities in there and make sure that we understand that they had people slaving away for them and that the Bennett's didn't take much notice, except for Jane, who was always very kind, gentle and sweet. I hoped to like it, but in the end, I didn't. ...more TYPE OF AUSTENESQUE NOVEL: Minor Character, Retelling TIME FRAME: Covers the same timespan as Pride and Prejudice with a couple of months after MAIN CHARACTERS: Sarah (maid), Polly (younger maid), Mr. and Mrs. Hill (butler and housekeeper), James Smith (new, mysterious footman), Ptolemy Bingley (footman at Netherfield) WHY I WANTED TO READ THIS NOVEL: This book was described by many as a cross between Pride and Prejudice and Downton Abbey...enough said! ;) In all seriousness, I love seeing our belo TYPE OF AUSTENESQUE NOVEL: Minor Character, Retelling TIME FRAME: Covers the same timespan as Pride and Prejudice with a couple of months after MAIN CHARACTERS: Sarah (maid), Polly (younger maid), Mr. and Mrs. Hill (butler and housekeeper), James Smith (new, mysterious footman), Ptolemy Bingley (footman at Netherfield) WHY I WANTED TO READ THIS NOVEL: This book was described by many as a cross between Pride and Prejudice and Downton Abbey...enough said! ;) In all seriousness, I love seeing our beloved Pride and Prejudice retold from a different perspective. Meeting and spending time with the servants of Longbourn greatly intrigued me. WHAT I LOVED: Impressions of Mr. Collins and Mr. Wickham: I loved seeing what the servants thought of these two Longbourn newcomers. Mr. Collins is their future master and at first they fear his disapproval. But once they meet him, rather than laugh at his ridiculousness, they feel pity and sympathy towards him and his lack of understanding and guidance. Wickham, on the other hand, they don't give him any sympathy at all! Sarah, James, and Mrs. Hill know he's a rat...they can smell it! Life Downstairs: Working from five in the morning to eleven at night, callouses and chilblains on your hands, never-ceasing list of chores and duties \u2013 Jo Baker did a remarkable job of depicting the life of a gentry servant. The authenticity or her depiction felt like she knew firsthand of their toils. Evocative Prose: This was my first time reading something by Jo Baker, her style of writing is very captivating and descriptive. With such vivid detail and tangible visuals, this novel easily lends itself to being made into a movie. Mrs. Hill: My favorite character in this novel was Mrs. Hill. Working for the Bennet's since their nuptials, she has seen it all, suffered through it all with them. And unknown to mostly all who surround her, she is tormented by her own tragic pain and heartbreak. Such a strong, intelligent, and admirable character. I would have loved to have spent more time with her, seen more of the story from her perspective, and learn more of her thoughts and emotions. WHAT I WASN'T TOO FOND OF: The Portrayal of Elizabeth Bennet: I'm sure growing up with servants to take care of all your needs makes one become accustomed to their services and compliance. While Elizabeth shared her novels with Sarah and often offered her kind words, I was disappointed to see her treat Sarah with some selfish inconsideration and thoughtlessness. Elizabeth's generous heart and sympathetic nature seemed to be missing in this novel. I see Elizabeth being akin to Lady Sybil, not Lady Mary! Our Sojourn into the Napoleonic Wars: About two-thirds through this tale we take a break from present day and travel back two years and experience some time on the battlefront in Spain and Portugal with the Bennet's footman, James. While well-written and depicted in great detail, I must admit I was not very fond of these chapters. Maybe because they were just a tad too dark, too wretched, and too much removed from the world of Jane Austen. Scenes at Pemberley: I don't want to give anything away, but suffice to say Sarah's actions towards the end of the novel and Elizabeth's and Mr. Darcy's response to them didn't ring true. Elizabeth, is again portrayed in an unfavorable light, and the resolution between Sarah and her hero just felt a little hurried and unsatisfying. CONCLUSION: In the end, this story did not feel much like a cross between Pride and Prejudice and Downton Abbey. A more apropos description might be - the darker, grittier, and less \u201csparkling\u201d side of Pride and Prejudice. With Longbourn, Jo Baker bravely picks up her pen and tackles the \u201cguilt and misery\u201d Jane Austen studiously avoided dwelling on in her novels. Austenesque Reviews ...more The good: I found this to be a beautifully written and well-imagined re-telling of Pride and Prejudice . I enjoyed seeing what a servant's day would be like, and the \"behind-the-scenes\" look at a rich family's life. I liked Sarah as a character and it was easy to root for her. The bad: Lots of yucky/evil things were discussed, and although they generally weren't described in gory detail (thank you), it was just too much. The ugly: I understand that servants and soldiers had to deal with dirty and s The good: I found this to be a beautifully written and well-imagined re-telling of Pride and Prejudice . I enjoyed seeing what a servant's day would be like, and the \"behind-the-scenes\" look at a rich family's life. I liked Sarah as a character and it was easy to root for her. The bad: Lots of yucky/evil things were discussed, and although they generally weren't described in gory detail (thank you), it was just too much. The ugly: I understand that servants and soldiers had to deal with dirty and scary things, I really do, and I understand that Jane Austen pretty much ignored all of that. But I feel like Ms. Baker was trying her very best to insert every sort of darkness imaginable here, and it was so much it quickly became unbelievable, almost laughable. We have sex outside marriage; illegitimacy; a child predator; rape/prostitution; murder; homosexuality; underarm hair; terrible language; torture; venereal disease; slavery; drinking; constant mentions of bodily functions and bathrooms; blackmail. Conclusions: I honestly wish that I hadn't read this. The writing was excellent, but the author's choice of focus left me with a bad taste in my mouth. Perhaps that was her point, but I didn't enjoy it, and I wish that she had been more sensitive and discreet, which would have been in better keeping with the time anyway. I received a copy of this book through Goodreads First Reads. ...more I usually avoid Pride and Prejudice sequels, prequels, mashups, and detective novels, because no one gets Austen's sardonic wit, no one. And that includes Jo Baker. The most believable bit in the book was touted in the blurb, the bit about Elizabeth's famous petticoat being six inches deep in mud, which made extra work for the maids. But otherwise the well-known characters are out of focus. I found the most believable moment when Mrs. Hill was anxious to please Mr. Collins, the future landlord. Bu I usually avoid Pride and Prejudice sequels, prequels, mashups, and detective novels, because no one gets Austen's sardonic wit, no one. And that includes Jo Baker. The most believable bit in the book was touted in the blurb, the bit about Elizabeth's famous petticoat being six inches deep in mud, which made extra work for the maids. But otherwise the well-known characters are out of focus. I found the most believable moment when Mrs. Hill was anxious to please Mr. Collins, the future landlord. But Collins himself? While an interesting character, he was not at all the socially awkward, somewhat Aspie Collins of Austen's work. Baker could as easily have make up a gentry family for her tale about hard-working servants and their lives as hidden from their masters. It would have been more believable (the Bennets could only afford two maids? My eyes are rolling out of my head) and perhaps the storyline would not have had to jink about so frenetically to match up with the progression of P&P. It was definitely not helped by an awkwardly stuck-in bit about the Napoleonic war that felt like \"I read this stuff, so by cracky, you're going to, too!\" Otherwise a sympathetic, sensory-rich book that really digs down and wallows in the effluvia of human life without benefit of modern convenience. No doubt about it, being a servant back then was back-breaking work. ...more What a brilliant premise this book has! Did you ever wonder \u2013 when reading Pride & Prejudice - about the lives of the servants toiling away quietly downstairs? No, me either. Jo Baker did wonder, however, and from that imagining has spun a beautiful, intense, heart-wrenching tale. Do not expect the wit and charm of Jane Austen; do not expect the well-beloved characters to be lauded. In fact, most of the cast of Pride & Prejudice come off badly \u2013 some are selfish and narcissistic, others What a brilliant premise this book has! Did you ever wonder \u2013 when reading Pride & Prejudice - about the lives of the servants toiling away quietly downstairs? No, me either. Jo Baker did wonder, however, and from that imagining has spun a beautiful, intense, heart-wrenching tale. Do not expect the wit and charm of Jane Austen; do not expect the well-beloved characters to be lauded. In fact, most of the cast of Pride & Prejudice come off badly \u2013 some are selfish and narcissistic, others merely oblivious. Do expect to have your understanding of the world of Jane Austen turned upside down and inside out, and made richer and truer as a result. Longbourne is driven by a strong sense of social justice, and we see just how hard life in Regency times could be for the poor and the weak. Much as I love Jane Austen, I always wondered why we heard nothing of the political turmoil of her times, nothing about the impassioned debate over slavery, nothing about the Napoleonic wars, nothing about the Luddites and the costs of the Industrial Revolution. Jo Baker has attempted to engage with many of these gaping holes in Jane Austen\u2019s world, and has achieved a work of great beauty and serious intent. Longbourne caused an international bidding war and has already sold film rights, and I can certainly see why. ...more Originally posted on Confessions of an Opinionated Book Geek I did not finish this book. I couldn\u2019t, because I am too big of a Jane Austen fan and this is a cross between fan fiction and a historical soapbox. Everything that could have happened to a lower class person in Regency England happens in this book. It\u2019s filled with so many events, it\u2019s melodramatic. This book did not need to be set in the Bennet household. It could have been any household in any historical time where there was a below st Originally posted on Confessions of an Opinionated Book Geek I did not finish this book. I couldn\u2019t, because I am too big of a Jane Austen fan and this is a cross between fan fiction and a historical soapbox. Everything that could have happened to a lower class person in Regency England happens in this book. It\u2019s filled with so many events, it\u2019s melodramatic. This book did not need to be set in the Bennet household. It could have been any household in any historical time where there was a below stairs, above stairs hierarchy. But, Jo Baker wanted to sell books so she decided to drag Jane Austen into it. PRIDE & PREJUDICE is my all time favorite book and because of that I never should have picked LONGBOURN up, but my curiosity got the best of me. I figured since it wasn\u2019t a sequel or from the eyes of a beloved character, it might be worth reading. It\u2019s not, at least not to me. There is just something very disrespectful about this book.PRIDE & PREJUDICE is 200 years old. But the tone of LONGBOURN is very belittling. The Bennet family has existed for two centuries and in my opinion Jo Baker does not get them. It\u2019s almost as if the author wanted to bring the Bennet\u2019s low. Is PRIDE & PREJUDICE a 100% view of England 200 years ago? No, absolutely not. But it does point at a society where women were unprotected and life without a good marriage was filled with poverty and emptiness and a reputation was all a girl had to recommend herself. Does that make the lives of the upper & middle classes more important than the lives of the lower class? Absolutely not. Was Elizabeth\u2019s marriage to Mr. Darcy more important than the lives of the men who died on battlefields? Absolutely not. But that doesn\u2019t make the lives of women like Elizabeth Bennet any less important. I felt that Jo Baker\u2019s book was set up to make the problems of the Bennet family seem silly and frivolous. I am sure that the sometimes silly and inappropriate behaviors of the Bennet family could make them discourteous or even disrespectful to their servants, but Jo Bakers take does not feel like an Austentale. Almost nothing from the PRIDE & PREJUDICE plot has any real bearings on the tale of LONBOURN which brings me back to my original idea. Servants standing in the rain would have happened when any society family went to a ball during a rainstorm. Not just the Bennet family. I absolutely believe in putting your own twist on things, but be aware and knowledgeable of the tale you\u2019re telling. I feel like this book was written just to be controversial and discussed. The language does not fit and character representations are not accurate. It\u2019s not a homage to the original work or even for the enjoyment of Austen fans. It\u2019s just a gross manipulation and a marketing plan. ...more We all hear of new releases that generate a great deal of excitement in the book community...for me, I was intrigued by the buzz created by Janeites for Jo Baker's Longbourn, a P&P inspired tale told from the servants point-of-view. This could be a most entertaining reading experience! Feeling right at home with the characters and events we all know and love in P&P, I couldn't wait to see how this different perspective would reshape the plot. The truth of the matter is, frankly, the downs We all hear of new releases that generate a great deal of excitement in the book community...for me, I was intrigued by the buzz created by Janeites for Jo Baker's Longbourn, a P&P inspired tale told from the servants point-of-view. This could be a most entertaining reading experience! Feeling right at home with the characters and events we all know and love in P&P, I couldn't wait to see how this different perspective would reshape the plot. The truth of the matter is, frankly, the downstairs world of Longbourn is bleak. Set aside the glamorized and romanticized images of Regency life, because it's going to get ugly. It's endless chores and daily grind, bleeding hands, and chamber pots. It's mending dresses that will never be yours and cleaning muddy shoes. It's sleeping in an old squeaky bed in the cold attic. It's a life where the servants in the underbelly of the house all toil from sun up to sun down. We know that. It is a fact of life at that time. But it makes for very unpleasant reading, and the author seems to take every opportunity to point out the \"odours\" of the times. From the contents of the chamber pots and dirty ladies' underthings, I got it the first time. And enough with the blood, menstrual or otherwise. Ugh. There was a storyline outside of the litany of vile smells.....however, I couldn't get invested in the relationship between Sarah and the footman, and Austen purists will not be overly pleased with the depiction of some of the characters in P&P. Obviously, from a servant's point of view, their interest in pretty dresses and parties is vain and shallow compared to their servants' meagre existence. Which is a long way for me to say I was underwhelmed and disappointed. Definitely not my cup of tea. ...more Jo Baker explores what Pride and Prejudice might look like from the servants' point of view and does a masterful job. Suddenly the life of the Bennets, which seems rather humble when compared to the Bingleys and Darcys, is cast in a different light when seen from the point of view of the people who work day and night to keep the household running smoothly. Baker weaves in and out of the Pride and Prejudice storyline just enough that the reader can mark his/her place in the timeline, before puttin Jo Baker explores what Pride and Prejudice might look like from the servants' point of view and does a masterful job. Suddenly the life of the Bennets, which seems rather humble when compared to the Bingleys and Darcys, is cast in a different light when seen from the point of view of the people who work day and night to keep the household running smoothly. Baker weaves in and out of the Pride and Prejudice storyline just enough that the reader can mark his/her place in the timeline, before putting the focus back on the housemaid Sarah, housekeeper Mrs. Hill, footman James, butler Mr. Hill and young housemaid Polly (who has to go by that name to avoid the confusion of having another Mary in the household). The result is a story all her own, with an impressive depth of insight into how the lives of the Bennets would be seen through the eyes of their servants and what the lives of servants in the Bennet household might be like. This wasn't just a gimmick to reel in slobbering Pride and Prejudice fans who will read anything with Darcy and Elizabeth (we don't see them much, and yes, I am one of those slobberers). It has that connection, and the connection makes it special, but the story stands alone. The writing is wonderful. Here are some of my favorite lines: Lydia needed to be taken out for a wild gallop; she needed someone to throw sticks for her to chase, poor love. So this was the luxury of speed, the ability to compress the world into folds and slip through them like a needle. Work was not a cure; it never had been: it simply grew a skin on despair, and crusted over it. The ladies, who had condoled so thoroughly with her during her time of grief, found it rather more difficult to participate in her happiness, which takes a true and proper friend indeed. Not all of Baker's takes on characters will be popular, particularly (view spoiler) [ favorites like Mr. Bennet and Elizabeth. The way Mr. Bennet handled Margaret's pregnancy and James' disappearances was realistic but not admirable. I personally didn't like how Elizabeth was portrayed as insensitive to Sarah, although I could partially get on board with it. I wasn't convinced by how she acted after she married Darcy, though, and her reaction to Sarah wanting to leave. She didn't seem very Elizabeth Bennety to me, and I refuse to imagine my literary heroine acting that way. Getting Darcy to do her convincing for her when she wanted Sarah to stay? I refuse, Jo Baker. (hide spoiler) ] Wickham is even more of a villain, and I think we see more of him than any of the Bennets, except maybe Mr. Bennet. Loved the scenes between Wickham and James, especially the conversation about cowardice. At the same time, Baker was realistic about what would happen if a footman spoke and acted the way James did to a \"gentleman\" like Wickham. That guy. What a sleezebag. I liked how the author took a passing sentence from the original and made the reader think about what it really meant, for example \"from the day of the invitation to the day of the ball, there was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once. No aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after; -- the very shoe-roses for Netherfield were got by proxy.\" And then we get a scene of Sarah, the housemaid, slogging through the rain to Meryton to get the Bennet girls' shoe-roses. The ending (view spoiler) [ for Sarah is happy but not easy, not the delirious perfection of Elizabeth's and Jane's. I was glad to see her make the choice Margaret (Mrs. Hill) couldn't, and I loved the last scene where it's Polly instead of Sarah hanging the laundry and seeing someone in the distance. Perfect. (hide spoiler) ] The concern the servants had over Mr Collins eventually taking over the household, the way Mary blooms once her sisters are out of the house and she has her parents' full attention, and many more details like these are the reason I was so impressed with this book. Thoroughly imagined and engrossing, this book will be on my mind for a long time. ...more I came to Pride and Prejudice late in the game. Late enough to recognize the constriction of that country life, the importance of the sudden appearance of a wealthy bachelor, the wisdom in making the most of such serendipitous opportunities and, to my dark amusement, the many maternal similarities between Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Kardashian. My eye was not quite as wide to the world when I picked up this novel, and I think it's important to mention that. I would imagine those who had a deeper and mo I came to Pride and Prejudice late in the game. Late enough to recognize the constriction of that country life, the importance of the sudden appearance of a wealthy bachelor, the wisdom in making the most of such serendipitous opportunities and, to my dark amusement, the many maternal similarities between Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Kardashian. My eye was not quite as wide to the world when I picked up this novel, and I think it's important to mention that. I would imagine those who had a deeper and more glorious youthful bond with Austen's masterpiece could find certain canon complaints in Longbourn . Not me. Jo Baker has set her sights on the darker shadings. Here are the low notes of life as it was lived below-stairs in the era of Britain's Bennets. Longbourn marches us straight down to the servants' domain and locks us into the imprisoned souls of those who kept the household running. Central to the story is Sarah, a young maid, orphaned and absorbed into the staff of Mrs. Hill, whose day begins at the crack of dawn pumping and transporting water from the well, chilblains weeping with the effort. Her list of duties is exhaustive and incessant - ever a petticoat of the tromping Lizzie in need of thorough bleaching, Lydia's festive whim for shoe-roses sated, ringlets iron-rendered, dainty dresses laced; fires laid, meals served, chamber pots emptied - even the bloody monthly linens are mentioned. Sarah is tired. Tired and resentful. Small rebellions tremble. The arrival of an itinerant man, quickly employed to supplement the staff, arches a brow. Soon after, the appearance of the devilishly handsome Bingley footman races a pulse. Her work continues - hard labor never at a shortage - though now it is the societal restriction that chafes. Why not me? Why not now? Tales of London sing to her; a touch, a taste, a light flickering in a distant Netherfield window. Baker tweaks a smidgen of backstory, but largely eschews Austen's creations in favor of her own. There is a lovely humanity in this, along with an understanding of the way innocence has a tendency to thwart the uprisings of the young. As far as pacing goes, I took issue only with the length of time spent on military excursion - a little too long there at the end. Still, this is solid work from a solid writer. If your fondness for the original stops an inch or two short of worship, you might consider it. ...more Is my face red. I promoted this book during summer presentations, in spite of the fact I've grown skeptical of any work that claims to reinvent another narrative -- most especially when that involves Austen. However, the hook on this seemed fresh, and the early chapters offered some promise. I even likened it to the model of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead , wherein familiar characters wander in and out of the background as we readers follow a different story with its own perspective. That Is my face red. I promoted this book during summer presentations, in spite of the fact I've grown skeptical of any work that claims to reinvent another narrative -- most especially when that involves Austen. However, the hook on this seemed fresh, and the early chapters offered some promise. I even likened it to the model of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead , wherein familiar characters wander in and out of the background as we readers follow a different story with its own perspective. That turned out to be overly optimistic. Not only is this book wildly uneven and often plodding, it doesn't offer an interesting story -- neither in the new characters nor in the glimpses of Austen's created world. As a matter of fact, the author seems to have delighted in undoing several of those characters, and all without any wit or style. I have no doubt it will do well, especially with the \" Pride and Prejudice meets Downton Abbey \" label. However, it is absolutely the type of book that will be started far, far more often than it will be finished. ...more The question I have is would I have liked Longbourn better, had it not had anything to do with Austen? I love Austen, and Pride and Prejudice is one of my favorite books ever. I was never going to go into an adaptation/retelling/spinoff of this book with an unbiased mind. And there are no such books that I've read that I felt were necessary or which brought anything new to the table. Longbourn on the other hand, had an interesting premise. It's Pride and Prejudice meets Downton Abbey , and even t The question I have is would I have liked Longbourn better, had it not had anything to do with Austen? I love Austen, and Pride and Prejudice is one of my favorite books ever. I was never going to go into an adaptation/retelling/spinoff of this book with an unbiased mind. And there are no such books that I've read that I felt were necessary or which brought anything new to the table. Longbourn on the other hand, had an interesting premise. It's Pride and Prejudice meets Downton Abbey , and even though I loathe Downton , it was a fresh take. But, this fresh take doesn't actually work in the favor of Longbourn . There's not much reliance on Pride and when there is, it's jarring or off a tangent. Jo Baker gets so hung up on the issues, that the plot falls by the wayside. It's like she has a laundry list of things Jane Austen did not address and goes through it in a business-like fashion. The structure of the plot put me in mind of a young child with a movie camera who's only just discovered perspective - even though the main protagonist is Sarah, Baker isn't satisfied with only her perspective. But she doesn't really know how to make a good transition, so flits between a number of people, sometimes within the same paragraph. It's too ADD for me. Add to that a whole lot of knowledge, but a lack of genuine understanding of the issues she makes her characters juggle and there's a bad book. Her Sarah is a bad protagonist, who finds no solace in anything, who constantly whines for more. The more is rather depressing when it is expressed - she doesn't want to work, and she wants a man. She's contemptuous of the Bennett girls who want the same thing, but, in her that is somehow not only ok, but admirable. Would the real servants of the Georgian era even have had the time or the inclination to whine? In Sarah's case, her defense is that she knew that her father was a weaver, a decent profession, before he died when she was six. She knew there was something better. But the girl was then put in the poorhouse and languished there for months before Mrs. Hill plucked her out. So, she also knew much worse than work at the Bennetts. Her ingratitude and selfishness is incomprehensible. Sarah is not exactly the sharpest tool in the shed. She's the only idiot who thinks of Lydia as lucky when she runs off with Wickham, because Lydia gets to be with a man she loves. Sarah knows Wickham to be the lowest of low (Jo Baker's own makeover for Wickham involves him as a pedo), and it's such a narrow, short term view in any case. The squalor that surrounds Lydia and Wickham - laundry and luggage that stink of the rather low places they've sheltered in - is all reduced to whining about the cleaning, not once does our protagonist actually think what it truly means. No one does. The most inexcusable part is that for all the grime and the grit and the so-called realism, Sarah herself is remarkably pristine, never mind her chilblained hands. It's perhaps more universal knowledge that a young woman of no means but beauty all by herself will find herself in a good deal of harm, than the one about young men of good fortune. Yet, Sarah, we're told is off on a wild goose chase all by herself, cutting off contact with everyone that knows and cares for her and comes to no harm whatsoever. If that's not seen via rose tinted glasses, I'm not sure what is. Plot-wise, all that happens is incidental to the \"issues\". Of Sarah's two men, it really doesn't matter which one she chose. Either way, the plot had scope to drop the current narrative thread and talk extensively in flashback about one issue or another - the man she chooses is a deserter from a war that made ill use of common soldiers like him, the one she didn't choose was born a slave and was in manacles for a while before his manumission. So it makes absolutely no difference that her method of choosing involves kissing one then the other, and deciding which is the better kisser (this truly happens). The rose tinted view of Sarah's circumstances continues here as well - both men truly love her and no one takes a stab at her virginity. Poor twelve year old Polly has more attacks on her virtue than Sarah does. How is this charmed life a reality? Baker gives every single one of her new protagonists a more severe problem to deal with than Sarah does, but we're somehow supposed to sympathize with Sarah about her hard life because she works (the same as everyone else, perhaps even less in some cases). Nope. I don't think I would have liked this book any better had it not borrowed and butchered characters from Austen. It's because the book is of its times, and shows zero compassion or tolerance or even understanding that not everyone thought that waiting on their employers, and cleaning up their messes was a job without dignity. This is especially so if they were women sheltered from predatory men, and the alternative was a poorhouse. And in any case, I don't think they'd have much time to woolgather. It brings surface shock - that of menstrual blood and icky diapers - but refuses to dig deeper to get to the bottom of the real problems it fleetingly mentions. If I wanted to know the drudgery in the world of Austen, I would read a non-fiction. At least, I'd be spared the whining. 1 star, lesser if I could've rated it so. ...more I apologize to readers of this review, as you will be scratching your head and thinking, \"huh?\" You will see those four stars, and then read in my review how happy I was to finally finish this book! Huh? I don't get it either. So, I'll just list what I loved and what I did not love, and see if we can figure this out: What I LOVED was learning about the servant class in England during this time (Napoleonic wars). I was blown away, as I hadn't ever really thought about some of the details, like empt I apologize to readers of this review, as you will be scratching your head and thinking, \"huh?\" You will see those four stars, and then read in my review how happy I was to finally finish this book! Huh? I don't get it either. So, I'll just list what I loved and what I did not love, and see if we can figure this out: What I LOVED was learning about the servant class in England during this time (Napoleonic wars). I was blown away, as I hadn't ever really thought about some of the details, like emptying someone else's chamber pots every morning. Hadn't ever thought about skin conditions like chilblains (look it up in Wiki). Hadn't thought about the day-long labor of the servants, and seldom having the freedom to \"do your own thing.\" Or how the lower classes were treated, even by \"good-hearted\" people like the Bennets. The lower classes were like slaves. They were, of course, free to walk away, not chained down physically, and therefore worlds above slaves. But day to day, with the choices they had, they were \"chained.\" I loved how Baker introduced the plight of an African slave who had \"moved up\" to the servant class. We saw Ptolemy's dream and wanted it for him. I was blown away by the story of James, and his stint with the military. I will not give details here other than to summarize with words like \"ordeal,\" and some of the words that come up in the thesaurus: nightmare, trauma, hell (on earth), misery, trouble, difficulty, torture, torment, agony. So I got into the shoes of Sarah and James and the other servants, and could see the world through their eyes and realize the choices they had, which were almost nil. This part about Longbourn I loved and am grateful to have my eyes opened. Having read Longbourn, I can see that TV programs like Downton Abbey, though definitely entertaining, romanticize how things were \"back then\" for the upper and lower classes, and between the classes, sort of making everything pretty and nice. Because of Longbourn, I \"get it.\" The parts I did not love about Longbourn: I was not interested one bit in the stories of the Bennets. I was not interested in a recreation of Pride and Prejudice. Boring. I thought I might croak if I read about one more trip of one of the Bennet daughters. I felt fidgety whenever I read about these events, or their wardrobe and hats with lace, and wanted desperately to return to the downstairs and get more involved with Sarah and James. But then I eventually realized--I had to see things from the upstairs too, in order to \"get it\" about the downstairs people. In many ways, Longbourn is about the plight of women during those times, regardless of their class. The stories of the Bennet daughters were not just silly romance stories, of finding husbands. If they did not marry, what choices did they have? Had the Bennet daughters not married, the Bennets would have faced financial disaster. In the end with this review, I am faced with a quandary: I loved what I learned from reading Longbourn, and yet still felt irritated with the Bennet stories, even though I begrudgingly admit it had to be that way for me to completely understand about James and Sarah. And I cannot bear living without James and Sarah. I love them. Definitely four stars. ...more<---C>Jo Baker</---C>", "Title": "Longbourn"},
