{"Comments": "Posted at Shelf Inflicted It\u2019s been a while since I\u2019ve read a book that left me completely speechless. I am struggling to find words to express how deeply this story affected me. I read a few reviews and decided it wasn\u2019t for me. My closest friend, Mark, died of AIDS in 1995 and I wasn\u2019t in the mood for anything that may trigger sad memories. Nor was I in the mood to read of the painful and joyful reminiscences of a 14-year-old girl who lost her beloved uncle to the disease. I\u2019m so glad Jason\u2019s r Posted at Shelf Inflicted It\u2019s been a while since I\u2019ve read a book that left me completely speechless. I am struggling to find words to express how deeply this story affected me. I read a few reviews and decided it wasn\u2019t for me. My closest friend, Mark, died of AIDS in 1995 and I wasn\u2019t in the mood for anything that may trigger sad memories. Nor was I in the mood to read of the painful and joyful reminiscences of a 14-year-old girl who lost her beloved uncle to the disease. I\u2019m so glad Jason\u2019s review made me change my mind. This story is much more than the deep love <---C>June Elbus</---C> had for her uncle,<---M> Finn Weiss</---M>, who was the only man in her life who understood her completely. It is also about the strained relationship she has with her older sister, Greta, navigating the tumultuous years between childhood and adulthood, and the pain caused by suppressed feelings that result in anger, resentment, and jealousy. I could understand and relate to June in so many ways. She\u2019s introverted, introspective and an outsider, but she\u2019s no pushover. She\u2019s not that interested in what others think of her, often making her own decisions regardless of peer or parental pressure. I believe that perhaps June was born in the wrong city and the wrong time. At nine, she fantasized about time travel. Now, like her Uncle Finn, she is fascinated with the life and art of the Middle Ages and retreats into another world during her solitary trips to the woods, and their visits to the Cloisters. Though Finn\u2019s death has affected June\u2019s entire family in different ways, it is June\u2019s pain that feels the most acute. She was the one who spent the most time with him and connected with him on so many levels. So imagine how she feels when she learns that she wasn\u2019t the only significant person in Finn\u2019s life. June\u2019s friendship with Finn\u2019s partner, Toby, starts tentatively and gradually deepens, as they both share a common grief. They connect through stories about Finn\u2019s life, his art, and the depth of their love for Finn. I listened to Mozart\u2019s Requiem while I was reading, its intensity, ebbs and flows so much like real life, and I understand why it was so meaningful to June and Finn. Because I was thinking of my friend Mark, his passion for life that matched Finn\u2019s, and the devastation I felt when he died, I couldn\u2019t help but find the Requiem overlaid by one of Mark\u2019s favorite songs, Guns in the Sky . Now that I\u2019ve returned this book to the library, I\u2019m feeling a little lonely and sad. I need to have my own copy to highlight meaningful passages and relive those intense feelings. I was a little surprised this was not on the YA shelf at the library. It deals with many adult themes, but the hurt, pain, and love pouring from its pages is beautiful and heartbreaking and will stay with you, regardless of your age. I strongly recommend it to all my young friends. This is easily one of my favorite books. Updated 10/8/13 I now have my own signed copy! ...more When I was in high school, there was this art teacher that nobody liked. She came in to replace another teacher who'd been transferred, and she liked to tell everyone in a really loud voice that (a) our school was a fucking dump and we should feel lucky to have her teaching there, and (b) your art is shit.<---F> You're shit</---F>. You should feel like shit. She was never my actual teacher, so I had more neutral feelings toward her. She did, however, cover my class during my teacher's sick days, of which ther When I was in high school, there was this art teacher that nobody liked. She came in to replace another teacher who'd been transferred, and she liked to tell everyone in a really loud voice that (a) our school was a fucking dump and we should feel lucky to have her teaching there, and (b) your art is shit. You're shit. You should feel like shit. She was never my actual teacher, so I had more neutral feelings toward her. She did, however, cover my class during my teacher's sick days, of which there were many. My suspicions were confirmed. The rumours were true. She was grossly mean. Then again, I don't blame her for hating me. Most of my teachers hated me. I wasn't a very agreeable kid at school, and as an art student, they probably thought me smug. I kind of was. I used to create the most ridiculous and extravagant pieces of art that I ended up burning on a bonfire like a fucking cult leader. I made a life-sized horse and rider out of scrap materials and my own clothes. I made a sword out of firewood and wore down an expensive pair of scissors whittling it. I made a huge black widow spider out of galvanized wire. They told us to take a photograph and make some aspect of it 3D, so I took a whole reel of photographs of my friend's face while she laughed and made a zoetrope with a few scraps of black paper and a lazy susan. One day, I was wandering around the department, looking for a book on Renaissance art that I could use as a reference for a series of watercolour paintings I planned to do, depicting fairytales at their violent roots. (Like, whatever. I liked candy gore.) The bookshelves were in the classroom where the hated teacher - let's call her Ms. S - was currently teaching a grade 10 class. Being the bad bitch that I was, I whipped open the door and strode straight in without knocking. Ms. S didn't look up or even address the fact that I was banging around at the back of the room, pulling the bookshelves out from behind the paper shelves and stacking hardback books noisily on the floor. (I was being an asshole. I was fully aware of this.) While flipping through some shit about medieval art (I hate medieval art) I began to listen to what she was saying. She was talking about the progression of art in the latter half of the 20th century - from postmodern art beginning in the 40s and 50s with Pollock, to jerks signing their names on urinals and juxtaposed shapes (I loathe cubism. Can you tell?) She began talking quite animatedly about the eighties, and her own experiences, and that's when I stopped, grabbed a chair, and listened. That's when she noticed me. Wordlessly, she looked at me, and so did a few of the grade 10 kids. I said nothing, and miraculously, she carried on talking. She said, \"That was around the time when I met my husband. And we were beginning to lose people, our friends, to AIDS.\" I sat for another fifteen minutes or so to listen to what she had to say. The entire class was deadly quiet. She spoke of attending funerals, keeping close to the subject of art, but not so far away that the word lost its meaning. AIDS. I rolled it around for a bit, thinking about how little I knew of it. I was interested, and made a note to myself to do some research. Due to a busy schedule, I forgot about it. Finals started, and I forgot about the teacher that everyone hated, too. A few months later, I graduated, then left school to join the workforce. Circa February 2013, and I'm sitting in McDonald's with some friends. It's freezing outside, but we're eating ice cream. We start laughing about the hokey CPR training we did at school (those fake babies came apart way too easily). One of my friends (safe to say, we no longer speak) said, \"You have to be careful. You can't give CPR to someone who has AIDS or you'll get it.\" Everyone else fell silent. Funny, that; how simply whispering the word can stick a knife through conversation. I looked at the girl and said, \"Excuse me?\" Now, I'd learned a little something since the stint in Ms. S's art room. I'd done some reading. And when the girl repeated what she'd said, I was suddenly appalled. \"Who told you that?\" \"My friend.\" \"Your friend is a liar.\" \"But saliva--\" This is a common argument. But saliva. But sweat. But this, but that. Listen: there's a reason why HIV/AIDS is most commonly categorized as a sexually transmitted disease, or a blood-borne disease. Because those are the ways in which it is caught: blood, semen, vaginal fluid. There is nowhere near a high enough concentration of the disease contained within saliva or sweat or tears for it to be transmitted in this way. I explain this to Girl. Girl asks if I'm sure. I ask her, \"If you were taught that you'll catch AIDS from giving someone who has the disease CPR, would you give them CPR, or would you stand by and let them die?\" \"Uh, yeah. Yeah, I'd do it anyway.\" \"Tell the truth.\" \"Fine. No.\" \"There. You answered your own question.\" As I lay in bed that night, the gravity of what I'd just experienced hit me like a sledgehammer. People were dying from this disease in the eighties, and in 2013, there are still people out there who are being taught to refuse people with HIV/AIDS help. Not even help; just humility. The AIDS \"epidemic\" effectively began in the very late 70s and early 80s - before the Soviet Union collapsed, before the Tiananmen Square Massacre, before the Berlin Wall came down. A generation ago. And yet still - still - it has the power to make young people so uncomfortable that they'll shut up and stare down at their box of McNuggets with faces as red as dragonfruits. And you have to know what everyone wants to say. Everyone wants to say something homophobic. That's the essence of it, isn't it? In the west, this disease hit the LGBTQA+ community the hardest, and for some reason, that doesn't generate sympathy. It generates blame. It's all fine and well to raise your fist and fight for marriage equality in the USA. It's all fine and well to wave a rainbow flag and tell people who belong to the LGBTQA+ community that you have their back. You love them, you accept them. So what's with the silence? What's with shifting in your seat, refusing to make eye contact, whispering the acronym as if it's something shameful? HIV/AIDS was alive back then, it is alive now, and we have the knowledge and understanding not only to give back quality of life to sufferers, but to know that it's not about bad gay people and the bad gay things that they do. We know that anyone can contract this disease. Bad, good, young, old. This disease exists in every corner of the world. We know how to prevent it, and we know that sometimes preventative measures don't work. We know these things because we have to. But what we really ought to know is that no one deserves to be HIV/AIDS positive. That's the core of this worldwide silence: a little bit of homophobia, a little bit of racism, a little bit of straight white privilege, and a whole lot of ignorance. That's the reason why people will shrink back when you speak those words. That's what makes them so fucking uncomfortable. Because deep down, they've been taught that people deserve this disease. For some reason or another. They blame the victim, like they always do. And what of the victim? Maybe they're African, or they're gay, or they have a lot of sex. Maybe they're white and straight and female, but they live in a society that's too mired in misogyny to discuss safe sex positively with young women without yelling \"slut!\" at the top of its lungs. Maybe they live in a world where sex is treated like something shameful, something to remain ignorant about. Maybe they live in a world so blinded by classism, homophobia and sexism that they simply do not have the tools with which to protect themselves. So it's not their fault. Why is that so fucking difficult to grasp? It's not your fault if you have HIV/AIDS. It's not your fault. It's not your fault. It's not your fault. It's not your fucking fault. How many times does it need to be said? It's not your fault. ...more I take one one one cause you left me and Two two two for my family and 3 3 3 for my heartache and 4 4 4 for my headaches and 5 5 5 for my lonely and 6 6 6 for my sorrow and 7 7 for no tomorrow and 8 8 I forget what 8 was for and 9 9 9 for a lost god and 10 10 10 10 for everything everything everything everything this book is everything everything everything everything. i don't even know where to start. you book-criers?? this is for you. i didn't, naturally, but god how i wanted to. this is the most poignan I take one one one cause you left me and Two two two for my family and 3 3 3 for my heartache and 4 4 4 for my headaches and 5 5 5 for my lonely and 6 6 6 for my sorrow and 7 7 for no tomorrow and 8 8 I forget what 8 was for and 9 9 9 for a lost god and 10 10 10 10 for everything everything everything everything this book is everything everything everything everything. i don't even know where to start. you book-criers?? this is for you. i didn't, naturally, but god how i wanted to. this is the most poignant and tender book, full of real (i.e., not schmaltzy manipulative nicholas sparks-style) emotional pull. its focus is june, a fourteen-year-old girl who is a character uncomfortable in her own reality. she would rather live in the middle ages, when magic and science were still intertwined, where the world was hushed and yet majestic. where the forest could envelop and shut out all problems. unfortunately, she lives in westchester in the 80's, and her beloved uncle has just died of AIDS. june is a tremendous character. and so lovingly written. you feel everything she feels: her confusion and her loss and her strength even when she doesn't realize how strong she is being just by going to school and not giving a shit about what her peers think of her in her medieval boots and long skirts. because they are not important. all she cared about in the world was her uncle, and the times they shared listening to the requiem and drinking tea and going to the cloisters and endlessly creating worlds around themselves to the exclusion of all else, including june's sister greta, with whom she used to be extremely close. after finn's death, june is shattered, and no one understands the depths of her pain. until someone does. until june begins to learn about other facets of her uncle's life and meets someone who understands perfectly well the empty space finn's death has left, and the long slow journey towards healing starts with one step, a teapot, and a painting. first novel? how is this possible? there are so very many passages here that i just wanted to eat up. this whole book is just perfect. every character, every moment of clarity, every petty jealous thought and hasty act. every moment when june takes a step back to really see what she has been misinterpreting or overlooking, every confession, every moment she spends with her parents... she is just a marvel of a character. if things went my way, i would be working at a renaissance fair as a falconer. i wouldn't have to worry about climbing career ladders or getting promotions, because falconry's not like that. either you're a falconer or you're not. either the birds come back to you or they fly away. both of her parents are accountants, which means that during tax season, when the events of the novel take place, she and her sister are \"tax orphans,\" taking care of themselves while her parents work long and exhausting hours and are not around to help her through her grief. when her father comes home one evening, tired and sick and worked to the bone: \"well, why do you do it, then?\" i meant it seriously.i really wondered why people were always doing what they didn't like doing. it seemed like life was a sort of narrowing tunnel. right when you were born, the tunnel was huge. you could be anything. then, like, the absolute second after you were born, the tunnel narrowed down to about half that size. you were a boy, and already it was certain that you wouldn't be a mother and it was likely you wouldn't become a manicurist or a kindergarten teacher. then you started to grow up and everything you did closed the tunnel in some more. you broke your arm climbing a tree and you ruled out being a baseball pitcher. you failed every math test you ever took and you canceled any hope of being a scientist. like that. on and on through the years until you were stuck. you'd become a baker or a librarian or a bartender. or an accountant. and there you were. i figured that on the day you died, the tunnel would be so narrow, you'd have squeezed yourself in with so many choices, that you just got squashed. \"why do i i do it?\" my dad said. \"that's a no-brainer. for you. for you and greta and your mother.\" \"oh,\" i said, suddenly feeling immensely sad that somebody would throw their whole life away just to make sure other people were happy. i mean, that is gorgeous. and a coming-of-age realization that doesn't come across as trite and commonplace. and that last sentence will resonate after you finish the book. no doubt. there are so many more passages here that i want to type out, but i think you should just read the book. trust a karen on this one - this is a keeper. i borrowed this from work, but i am just going to buy it instead of returning it. i don't want anyone else touching this copy. this one is mine. a note on the requiem. i spent about 20 minutes digging out my copy of it before sitting down to write this review, i rarely listen to music anymore. but the requiem has to be one of the most perfect musical pieces ever, and it has always shattered me while buoying me up at the same time. and this book is positively dripping with it. it is the perfect musical accompaniment. and it reminded me that this exists: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-Pgqe... which is a cover of part of the requiem that this band played at my store one time, (better than this recording) and i remember i was shelving, walking across the floor with some books, and as soon as i realized what i was listening to, i dropped everything i was holding and just stood there, mesmerized. it is kind of a fantastic interpretation. the version i heard is on this podcast: http://www.podcast.tv/video-episodes/... but i can't figure out how to ffwd to the song, which is the last one they played that night, so someone should do that for me, because i think that version is way superior. but really - read this book, even though this review is completely inadequate at even coming close to what it did to me, you have to. ...more 5 Stars This is my favorite read of the year so far in 2012. Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home is an incredible debut novel, a coming of age story that is masterfully told. Some will view this as a tragedy, as a story of loss and missed opportunities, a story about the hard truths about living. Others will see this as a tale of poignant beauty, a coming of age tale, and story that hits home on the greatest things of life. While it may really hit both spectrums that I just mentioned, it does so in a lyric 5 Stars This is my favorite read of the year so far in 2012. Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home is an incredible debut novel, a coming of age story that is masterfully told. Some will view this as a tragedy, as a story of loss and missed opportunities, a story about the hard truths about living. Others will see this as a tale of poignant beauty, a coming of age tale, and story that hits home on the greatest things of life. While it may really hit both spectrums that I just mentioned, it does so in a lyrical, poetic, and beautiful way. This book theme centers on death and it is magical in that it shows that at the end of the day everyone dies, but as the old clich\u00e9 goes, not everyone truly lives. As June our main protagonist goes through her trials and tribulations, growing up as a 14 year old teenager, the book climaxes as she comes to understand more about herself and about life in general. We the readers are treated to the depth of the title \u201dTell the Wolves I\u2019m Home\u201d. First off, if plan on reading this book you should immediately download Mozart\u2019s Requiem, his final composition ( http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JE2muD... ). It will truly help you appreciate this novel. Mozart\u2019s final masterpiece plays along and captures the beauty and complexity of young June\u2019s life, and maybe a bit of yours too. This is a music piece about death\u2019s door, about God\u2019s deliverance, and about heaven and earth. At times it is simple in its quiet beauty and at others it is harsh and aggressive and all the while it is deep and complex. So too is this coming of age story about a young teenage girl named June. When the lyrics of the song soar over the orchestra you cannot help but feel that you know these words that you feel them, and understand them to their deepest meaning, even though they are sung in Latin, a language that most cannot understand at all. The vocals are magnificent and powerful and they capture the beauty told to us in this wonderful tale. They parallel the stories, and they show depth and complexity. \u201cThe Requiem was a secret between me and Finn. Just the two of us. We didn\u2019t even need to look at each other when he put it on. We both understood. He\u2019d taken me to a concert at a beautiful church on 84th Street once and told me to close my eyes and listen. That\u2019s when I first heard it. That\u2019s when I first fell in love with that music.\u201d Let me talk a little about the characters in this novel. It all starts and center around an amazing young girl named June Elbus. At her heart June is a romantic. \u201cro\u2022man\u2022tic [roh-man-tik] Show IPA adjective 1.of, pertaining to, or of the nature ofromance; characteristic or suggestive of theworld of romance: a romantic adventure. 2.fanciful; impractical; unrealistic: romanticideas. 3.imbued with or dominated by idealism, adesire for adventure, chivalry, etc. 4.characterized by a preoccupation with love orby the idealizing of love or one's beloved. 5.displaying or expressing love or strongaffection.\u201d \u201c\u201cA romantic, you barnacle, not lovey-dovey romantic.\u201d He leaned over like he was about to nudge my shoulder with his, but then he pulled away. \u201cWhat\u2019s the difference?\u201d I asked cautiously. \u201cBeing a romantic means you always see what\u2019s beautiful. What\u2019s good. You don\u2019t want to see the gritty truth of things. You believe everything will turn out right.\u201d I breathed out. That wasn\u2019t so bad. I felt the blood ease away from my face. \u201cWell, what about you?\u201d I dared to ask Finn. \u201cAre you a romantic?\u201d\u201d June has a secret, a huge secret that she believes that no one knows\u2026you see, June is in love with her uncle, her uncle Finn, a homosexual adult that is dying of AIDS. For all 14 plus years June does everything in her power to see her uncle, to be with him, and to keep him for herself. She is ashamed of her feelings, of her wants, and her needs, but cannot be sorry for them. The theme of this book is her growth and development and the understanding of her own self and place. The following quote could be a small spoiler but defines it well\u2026 \u201cAnd then I thought something terrible. I thought that if Finn were still alive, Toby and I wouldn\u2019t be friends at all. If Finn hadn\u2019t caught AIDS, I would never even have met Toby. That strange and awful thought swirled around in my buzzy head. Then something else occurred to me. What if it was AIDS that made Finn settle down? What if even before he knew he had it, AIDS was making him slower, pulling him back to his family, making him choose to be my godfather. It was possible that without AIDS I would never have gotten to know Finn or Toby. There would be a big hole filled with nothing in place of all those hours and days I\u2019d spent with them. If I could time-travel, could I be selfless enough to stop Finn from getting AIDS? Even if it meant I would never have him as my friend? I didn\u2019t know. I had no idea how greedy my heart really was.\u201d Other notable characters are Toby, and Greta, and of course Finn via many backstories. These people make up all of June\u2019s life and we are treated to fully realized characters that are very much people that you may know in real life too. The magic of this book is revealed as June begins to open her eyes. Many great steps forward are made when unforeseen events occur, or when her mischievous behaviors lead to dire circumstances. June and Greta\u2019s lives are changed irrevocably by the death of their uncle Finn and the subsequent events that follow his passing. The novel progresses through June telling us many stories about her and Finn, about her mother, and about her relationship with her older sister Greta. It is exciting to see the changes in her that telling these stories with Toby and with us do for her as a young adult growing up. Couple these fabulous snippets with <---A>Carol Rifka Brunt</---A>\u2019s wonderful vocabulary and literary style, and you have one great piece of fiction. Brunt\u2019s story telling borders on fairy tale style, and I loved it. The ending of this novel is unforgettable. It will crack the hardest stone and melt the largest piece of ice and it will touch you in a way that you won\u2019t soon forget. I loved it\u2026I mean I really loved how the strings of this story were brought together and how they played out as a beautiful musical chord. The end of this book is sure to be a tissue grabbing moment for most. My favorite thing about this book is the fact that this story moved me, I will remember it clearly for a long time and I am truly glad that I read it. It is a must read for literary fans and for anyone that appreciates great writing. This was my favorite read of 2012. ...more The sun kept on with its slipping away, and I thought how many small good things in the world might be resting on the shoulders of something terrible. ~ <+++>Tell the Wolves I'm Home</+++> I don't know how to write a review for this book. I've made a few false starts already. It's always SO HARD to review the exceptional, the beautiful, the sincere and heartfelt. When what you've just read humbles you, when it so keenly reminds you of the raw power of storytelling -- of why we read in the first place -- it The sun kept on with its slipping away, and I thought how many small good things in the world might be resting on the shoulders of something terrible. ~ <+++>Tell the Wolves I'm Home</+++> I don't know how to write a review for this book. I've made a few false starts already. It's always SO HARD to review the exceptional, the beautiful, the sincere and heartfelt. When what you've just read humbles you, when it so keenly reminds you of the raw power of storytelling -- of why we read in the first place -- it can leave you floundering without any words to describe the experience (a cruel irony if there ever was one). I have no words, or I feel like I don't have enough, or know the right ones to use to capture the intensity and sweetness of Tell the Wolves I'm Home . Like Mozart's Requiem , it's meant to be experienced . It's the really funny joke that \"you had to be there\" to find funny at all. I can tell you it's a coming of age story that hits all the right notes regarding that excruciating, confusing transition between childhood and adulthood, from innocence to innocence lost. June is fourteen and bright and funny and loveable, but also fierce and stubborn and selfish. She's prideful and lacks confidence, while at the same time marches to the beat of her own romantic drum. She's learning to love, not just perfection, but flaws and failures -- discovering that real beauty, real love , has scars and history, mistakes and disappointments. There is so much character in this story -- not just June, but her sister Greta, their beloved uncle Finn, and his beloved Toby. Each character is whole with lives and souls to call their own. Their voices are distinct, their points of view crystalline and unique. It makes you care , it makes you feel and cry, and sigh and laugh out loud. There's also a sense of place -- a time really -- that's so vivid it acts as a powerful subtext to the entire novel. June is growing up in the 1980's while her uncle is dying from AIDS. We remember the music, the clothes, the movies and that makes us smile. But then we remember the ignorance and fear, the prejudice and cruelty -- as much a part of the disease as its auto-immune deficiency -- and we weep. Toby and Finn, with genuine humanity, symbolize the tragic loss of so many young men in the early days of AIDS, before anyone really understood what was happening, before anyone had the courage to do anything about it when they finally knew exactly what was happening. Ultimately, this book is about profound loss and the giant grief that accompanies it. It's about finding yourself in that loss, and then finding your way through it. If you've been there, you know. There are no shortcuts. It is what it is and it's you and it. But if we're lucky, if we're really lucky, there will be someone beside us to hold our hand, to pull us in, to catch our tears, to guide us back to the land of the living. This is an emotional story, but it is in no way maudlin or melodramatic. It could be that book, that smacks of manipulation and exploits tragedy for the big win. Tell the Wolves I'm Home is not that book. It is the very opposite of that book. I'm going to end this review with a Hemingway quote that I would like to dedicate to June and Greta and Finn and Toby. \u201cThe world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong in the broken places.\u201d ...more There's this trend of young-adult (themed) novels for them to be predicated on the concept of the child main character being this misunderstood wunderkind that thinks they are universally disliked when in fact they are loved by everyone. It's terribly boring and terribly indulgent. I think it's not a necessary evil or fact of the genre, but just something that occurs as a result of ham fisted characterisation and writing. There are good elements to this book\u2014it explores complex and overwhelming There's this trend of young-adult (themed) novels for them to be predicated on the concept of the child main character being this misunderstood wunderkind that thinks they are universally disliked when in fact they are loved by everyone. It's terribly boring and terribly indulgent. I think it's not a necessary evil or fact of the genre, but just something that occurs as a result of ham fisted characterisation and writing. There are good elements to this book\u2014it explores complex and overwhelming relationships between people in a clever way. It, I think, does a very good job of capturing a socio-cultural point of time. I think it starts to fall down when it tries to become too profound and instead feels mawkish and overdone. The emotional journey the main character undertakes feels predictably on-rails. I think if the book took comfort in a certain superficiality rather than tried to really get to the core of deep, dark emotions it would have been much better. It's a spork book, when I would have been much more happy with either a spoon or a fork. I think you really have to ignore the first page of Goodreads reviews\u2014they are overwhelmingly extreme in their opinions. This book attempts to be beautiful, heart wrenching and so on but it really isn't. It's a decent story with good writing, not this fantastic, vital book. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ The year is 1987 and June has just lost the most important person in her life to AIDS. After the death of her Uncle Finn, June makes an unlikely friend and learns some hard truths about her family and herself. Please note you will NOT get me to change my opinion, so if you just loveloveloved Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home and can\u2019t understand how anyone could not \u2013 you should probably move along. I know I have chosen the road less taken, but Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ The year is 1987 and June has just lost the most important person in her life to AIDS. After the death of her Uncle Finn, June makes an unlikely friend and learns some hard truths about her family and herself. Please note you will NOT get me to change my opinion, so if you just loveloveloved Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home and can\u2019t understand how anyone could not \u2013 you should probably move along. I know I have chosen the road less taken, but I have to own up to the fact that I did not like this book. At all. I think the only reason it received the hype it did was that Carol Rifka Brunt made it take place at the onset of the AIDS crisis. If Finn died of just plain old cancer, no one would have given two shits about this novel. If you liked it, more power to you. As for me, my 1 Star rating, and this review???? Every moment in this book felt forced. Rather just saying we\u2019re in 1986/87, the issue is pushed with horrible \u201cproduct placement\u201d type announcements that are completely unnecessary (i.e., \u201cthe Rubix cube on the dresser\u201d, or \u201cwax on/wax off\u201d, or \u201cTiffany\u2019s new remake of an old classic \u2013 \u201cI Think We\u2019re Alone Now\u201d \u2013 playing on the radio.\" The only thing missing was June walking in wearing her \u201cFrankie Say Relax\u201d t-shirt). Rather than writing a story about familial relationships and how they can disintegrate so easily, the AIDS crisis has been pushed to the forefront as the excuse for bad behavior. Rather than letting June be devastated when her favorite person in the world dies (or making June\u2019s character younger and experiencing \u201cfirst love\u201d with her uncle), instead we deal with a 14 year old and a type of love that pushes toward perversion rather than adoration. I realize (again) that I have taken a very unpopular opinion. But you know what? I can\u2019t remember reading a book where I liked the characters less than this. June is an idiot, Greta is a bully, the mother is a bitch, the father is absentee. The only person I wanted to know anything about was Toby. I want to read Toby\u2019s story. I want to know everything about him in great detail. His childhood, how he fell in love with Finn, how he dealt with having AIDS back when even the President of the United States wouldn\u2019t dare mention the name, what it felt like to get diagnosed with an illness that meant everyone would be terrified of you, and how he managed to survive losing the love of his life. Toby\u2019s story is one that needs to be told \u2013 just not by Carol Rifka Brunt. She\u2019d only fuck it up and make it dirty and horrible. If you loved this book, I\u2019m happy for you and please know I really wanted (expected) to as well. Sadly, it just wasn\u2019t in the cards for me. This is my honest review and ...more Whoever wrote the book blurb should be shot\u2026if it wasn\u2019t for my wonderfully pushy friends I\u2019d have passed and missed out on a fabulous book. There\u2019s an honesty to Brunt\u2019s writing, simple and restrained. Dealing with loss, illicit love, teenage angst & sibling rivalry you\u2019d think it\u2019d be grim but it\u2019s not - pathos nicely balanced with gentle humour. With resentment & envy pulling them apart Brunt portrays a family fracturing at the seams, then chooses the painting of a portrait to draw t Whoever wrote the book blurb should be shot\u2026if it wasn\u2019t for my wonderfully pushy friends I\u2019d have passed and missed out on a fabulous book. There\u2019s an honesty to Brunt\u2019s writing, simple and restrained. Dealing with loss, illicit love, teenage angst & sibling rivalry you\u2019d think it\u2019d be grim but it\u2019s not - pathos nicely balanced with gentle humour. With resentment & envy pulling them apart Brunt portrays a family fracturing at the seams, then chooses the painting of a portrait to draw them back together \u2013 beautiful. It was the painting (and teaching me the meaning of \u2018negative space\u2019) that nailed it for me, that and the look back at AIDS. In the 80's it struck terror when it 1st reared its ugly head, ignorance and fear bought out the worst in people. Yet there\u2019s no feeling of guilt to this \u2013 just the natural sadness of loss. Told through June\u2019s eyes, a 14 year old misfit who thinks she\u2019s \u201ca complete and total waste of space\u201d who achieves self-confidence through caring about others instead of dwelling on herself. \u201cI thought how there was a kind of power in being needed. I could feel it hardening up my bones and thickening my blood.\u201d Worth reading for that\u2026 Why read YA? Been there, done that\u2026 I didn\u2019t till a year ago. As a reminder I guess, of what pure love felt like\u2013 for a best friend, a brother, a lover\u2026Not saying I\u2019d want to go through it again, thought I\u2019d DIE after that 1st guy dumped me. (Ian was his name - the scunner) Makes sense to throw up SOME barriers. And yet, the passion\u2019s still there just deeply repressed. YA novels a nudge - might not be such a bad idea to let it out once in a while for some fresh air:) For the genre of young adult \u2013 5 stars \u201cI used to think maybe I wanted to become a falconer, and now I\u2019m sure of it, because I need to figure out the secret. I need to work out how to keep things flying back to me instead of always flying away\u201d ...more Buddy Read with Murugesh This is such a beautiful story, it touched my heart and also managed to break it into little pieces.... It is about June, a 14 year old who loses her godfather who is also her uncle and maybe her first love to AIDS . This story is set in 1987 and during this time Aids was an unknown factor which people were very afraid of. This is one of the thoughts that June has before her uncle dies and she is spending some time with him knowing he isn't going to survive this. \"Yeah, but Buddy Read with Murugesh This is such a beautiful story, it touched my heart and also managed to break it into little pieces.... It is about June, a 14 year old who loses her godfather who is also her uncle and maybe her first love to AIDS . This story is set in 1987 and during this time Aids was an unknown factor which people were very afraid of. This is one of the thoughts that June has before her uncle dies and she is spending some time with him knowing he isn't going to survive this. \"Yeah, but how do you know that the germs from a kiss can't seep in through the skin of your cheek? How can you be sure they can't somehow swim into your blood right through your open pores?\" I didn't know. And I didn't want to die. I didn't want to turn gray. But I can't really fault what June is feeling as she was just a kid and there was apparently so much hype and incorrect information passed on that even educated adults behaved stupidly. 'After that came a story about a judge in Yonkers who moved his whole courtroom out into the parking lot because the guy he was sentencing had AIDS. \"Fresh air and sunshine,\" the judge said, talking about how he thought it was safer for the court staff not to be in a tight little courtroom with germs like that.' It is about the complicated loving relation that June had with her Uncle Finn and about things that are lost in life that can never come back... 'Not only because Finn had never told me about this guy, but because there was no way to ask him about it. And until then I don't think I really understood the meaning of gone.' This is a story about Toby - a lonely man and June - a weird adorable girl. 'Finn was right. I could tell. Toby had nobody. But it was okay. It was all sealed. He had me now.' But then again this story is not only confined to them but also is about June and Greta, Finn and Dani, Dani and June.... This made me think about my life-partner and what I will do if I ever lose him. It made me think about my sibling and all the lovely childhood days that will never come back. And it made me cry, cry and cry thinking about all the injustice that life deals us with. 'What is it was enough to realize that you would die someday, that none of this would go on forever? Would that be enough?' - This can make you instantly sad when thinking of something happy and instantly glad if having depressing thoughts.... Some people may find this a slow story but according to me this is a story to be savored, read slowly and let the meaning of it all seep into you. 'If you always make sure you're exactly the person you hoped to be, if you always make sure you know only the very best people, then you won't care if you die tomorrow.' Even writing this review is bringing back all the emotions I went through while reading this book. Grab a copy now and do not miss out on reading this one. ...more \u201cThe sun kept on with its slipping away, and I thought how many small good things in the world might be resting on the shoulders of something terrible.\u201d When I was about seven or eight, I was at my friend's house drawing pictures and playing with dolls or whatever we were doing. I don't remember the exact circumstances leading up to what happened, but on this day my friend put her hand underneath my school skirt and touched me. Being older now, I realize it was just childish exploration and tha \u201cThe sun kept on with its slipping away, and I thought how many small good things in the world might be resting on the shoulders of something terrible.\u201d When I was about seven or eight, I was at my friend's house drawing pictures and playing with dolls or whatever we were doing. I don't remember the exact circumstances leading up to what happened, but on this day my friend put her hand underneath my school skirt and touched me. Being older now, I realize it was just childish exploration and that it isn't uncommon, but at the time I pulled back like I'd been burned. I went home shortly after that. This event is not that remarkable. What is remarkable is that I worried about that day for the next four years. That's right - four whole years . Then one day when I was twelve, my mum looked at me and asked me what was wrong. Well, I burst into tears and told her what had happened four years previously. However, my mum just looked relieved and told me: \"That's not that strange. Young children are curious about bodies and sexuality.\" And then I said: \"But... she's a girl. Does that mean... am I... do I have AIDs?\" My mum was shocked. She explained that I couldn't get AIDs unless the other person already had the disease and that I definitely couldn't get it from touching. Or saliva. I'm lucky enough to have a mother who a) I can talk to about anything, and b) is intelligent and open-minded enough to correct my mistaken assumptions about AIDs. But sometimes I shudder to think of how ignorant I could have been if my situation had been different. I shudder to think of where I must have picked up that false information in the first place and how many other ignorant kids (later ignorant adults) believe that kind of crap. This book is so relevant , even today. We're still, as a society, so uneducated about AIDs. Very few schoolchildren are provided with substantial information about where it comes from and what causes it. Still, today, many people believe AIDs is something that gay people created. And many people believe you can catch it by holding hands with someone who has the disease. Tell the Wolves I'm Home deals with an important subject and I'm glad there are books dealing with the subject. But I also think it has many flaws and some things were not handled successfully. Not least of which is that I'm not sure it does anything to challenge the perceived relationship between homosexuality and the disease. There are two main characters who are gay in this book - one dies of AIDs and the other is really creepy. Some people disliked the relationship between June and her Uncle Finn because it becomes apparent very early that June has some kind of crush on him. This didn't bother me. I saw June as a kid, one without any real friends, whose closest relationship was between her and her beloved uncle. Kids are all kinds of weird and many young girls say they're going to \"marry their dad\" - I don't believe it's dangerous or long-lasting. Finn, as the adult, never behaved inappropriately towards June and that's all I really cared about. As someone who grew up very shy, I also liked the exploration of June's shyness. The author captures the feeling very well: I'm okay with one or two people, but more than that and I turn into a naked mole rat. That's what being shy feels like. Like my skin is too thin, the light too bright. Like the best place I could possibly be is in a tunnel far under the cool, dark earth. Someone asks me a question and I stare at them, empty-faced, my brain jammed up with how hard I'm trying to find something interesting to say. But, as well as some of the failures regarding the depiction of homosexuality and AIDs, I thought June was incredibly stupid at times. She receives a note from a man she believes to be a murderer, telling her to meet up with him and not tell any of her family about it. Er... this is about the time that major alarm bells should be going off in your head, June! Instead, she meets with him, goes to his apartment and allows him to lead her into the basement (like the idiots in a good old horror B-movie), pausing at one point to consider that he might be a psycho but brushing it off without good reason. Stupid. Such an important subject matter. Many steps taken in the right direction, but many problems too. ...more When I finished this book, I felt overwhelmed. Like every bit of beautiful writing and bittersweet emotion had filled my heart and made it ready to burst. There are some books that you finish and think \"thank goodness I'm a reader\" or \"thank goodness I got to read this one.\" Tell The Wolves I'm Home is one of those books, and easily the best book I've read in 2012. It's not like the story was a loud one. Our fourteen-year-old protagonist, June Elbus, enjoys spending time in solitude or with her u When I finished this book, I felt overwhelmed. Like every bit of beautiful writing and bittersweet emotion had filled my heart and made it ready to burst. There are some books that you finish and think \"thank goodness I'm a reader\" or \"thank goodness I got to read this one.\" Tell The Wolves I'm Home is one of those books, and easily the best book I've read in 2012. It's not like the story was a loud one. Our fourteen-year-old protagonist, June Elbus, enjoys spending time in solitude or with her uncle Finn instead of hanging out with kids her age. She gets B's in school and has no tremendous talent like her sister, Greta. But she offers some of the keenest and most honest observations I've ever read. I wasn't interested in drinking beer or vodka or smoking cigarettes or doing all the other things Greta thinks I can't even imagine. I don't want to imagine those things. Anyone can imagine things like that. I want to imagine wrinkled time, and forests think with wolves, and bleak midnight moors. I dream about people who don't need to have sex to know they love each other. I dream about people who would only ever kiss you on the cheek. The plot centers on June's struggle to cope with her uncle Finn's death, which was due to AIDS. After receiving a letter from a mysterious man who claims to have had a connection with Finn as well, June decides to meet this person - thus causing a waterfall of events that could hopefully lead her to heal. Every character felt like a real person. I am not exaggerating. This is my 400th review on Goodreads, and out of the 400 books I've read and reviewed, Tell The Wolves I'm Home definitely places in the top 5% for its characters. Like I said, June is not a perfect protagonist. Some readers may even hate her. But all of her feelings - her loneliness, her jealousy, her melancholy - made me want to tell her it would be okay and cry alongside her. Greta, her mom, and her dad each possessed bad personality traits, but by the end, after looking at the full and finished portrait of each character, I came to empathize with all of them. The writing. Carol Rifka Brunt's writing possessed so much pulchritude, I don't think I can describe it. It wasn't bombastic or manipulative, rather, it was thoughtful and breathtaking. Read this: I really wondered why people were always doing what they didn't like doing. It seemed like life was a sort of narrowing tunnel. Right when you were born, the tunnel was huge. You could be anything. Then, like, the absolute second after you were born, the tunnel narrowed down to about half that size. You were a boy, and already it was certain you wouldn't be a mother and it was likely you wouldn't become a manicurist or a kindergarten teacher. Then you started to grow up and everything you did closed the tunnel in some more. You broke your arm climbing a tree and you ruled out being a baseball pitcher. You failed every math test you ever took and you canceled any hope of being a scientist. Like that. On and on through the years until you were stuck. You'd become a baker or a librarian or a bartender. Or an accountant. And there you were. I figured that on the day you died, the tunnel would be so narrow, you'd have squeezed yourself in with so many choices, that you just got squashed. This is one of the first books I'll reference when people doubt the power of realistic fiction. No vampires, no fallen angels, no magical realism - just a simple yet gargantuan story about a girl whose uncle died because of a horrid disease. Tell the Wolves I'm Home will whittle your heart down to nothing, and build it back up stronger than ever before. *review cross-posted on my blog, the quiet voice . ...more Final rating: 5/5 stars First of all: THIS BOOK MADE ME CRY SO FREAKING MUUUUUUUUUUUCH!!! Second: My heart is shattered into million pieces. I was surprised when i saw that this book was shelved as glbt. I didn't expect it though, but now that i have read this book, it makes more sense. It's a passive glbt story. But i highly recommend to everyone to read this one, because it's such emotional roller coaster . I cried in almost every chapter, because most of things that happened were just unfair. Final rating: 5/5 stars First of all: THIS BOOK MADE ME CRY SO FREAKING MUUUUUUUUUUUCH!!! Second: My heart is shattered into million pieces. I was surprised when i saw that this book was shelved as glbt. I didn't expect it though, but now that i have read this book, it makes more sense. It's a passive glbt story. But i highly recommend to everyone to read this one, because it's such emotional roller coaster . I cried in almost every chapter, because most of things that happened were just unfair. The story is about a girl - June - who is struggling to find her own place in people's hearts. She does not have any friends of her own age, she thinks that her sister Greta hates her, and their parents don't give them any necessary attention. The only person who ever saw her as herself, and who loved her, made her smile and cry, was her uncle and godfather Finn. But, fate had other plan for Finn, given that he contracted AIDS. He is dying and June is painfully aware of it. And she thinks her world is shattered when he passes away, until someone shows that she is not the only one who truly cared for Finn. My mother said it [dying] was like a cassette tape you could never rewind. But it was hard to remember you couldn\u2019t rewind it while you were listening to it. And so you\u2019d forget and fall into the music and listen and then, without you even knowing it, the tape would suddenly end. That someone is Toby - Finn's \"secret\" lover. June's mother hates him with passion, thinking that it was his fault that Finn died because of AIDS. And, the thing is - June didn't even knew that he existed. But he is the only person beside her that knew as much as she did about Finn. And then....they begin to meet each other. \u201cFinn didn\u2019t even seem to care that he was dying,\u201d I said. And it was true. Finn was as calm as ever right up to the very last time I saw him. \u201cDon\u2019t you know? That\u2019s the secret. If you always make sure you\u2019re exactly the person you hoped to be, if you always make sure you know only the very best people, then you won\u2019t care if you die tomorrow.\u201d \u201cThat doesn\u2019t make any sense. If you were so happy, then you\u2019d want to stay alive, wouldn\u2019t you? You\u2019d want to be alive forever, so you could keep being happy.\u201d \u201cNo, no. It\u2019s the most unhappy people who want to stay alive, because they think they haven\u2019t done everything they want to do. They think they haven\u2019t had enough time. They feel like they\u2019ve been shortchanged.\u201d ____________________________________________ Characters : ____________________________________________ There are four main characters in this story: June (the narrator), Greta (June's sister), Finn (their uncle and June's godfather) and Toby (Finn's lover). Each one of them was very complex character, including Finn who died early in the story, but we find about him more in the memories of the people who loved him. June is the main character of this story. She is 14 year old girl who is desperate to find someone who understands her. She did find someone, that special person, and it was Finn. His dying struck her hard because she thought that she will have no one else who would truly understand her in that way Finn did. He was to her more than anyone else ever was. In a way, i understand her, because for a long time, i didn't have anyone either. And then, one person changed my life, and that person is now gone. But, then you understand that your life is not defined by just one person, but by others as well. And that is what she needed the most, even though she didn't say it with words, she wanted someone to care for her and to be with her. And most of all - she needed more memories of Finn, and there is only one person who could have given her all of that. And it was Toby. When she began meeting with him, she mentally hurt him on more occasions, and some of those times, she did it on purpose. That is what i disliked about her the most. But toward the end of the book, she got better, and i started to like her. Greta is the agressive, reckless, angry, sarcastic and mean. But, inside, she was never like that. She just wanted some attention from her own sister, who spent more time with their Uncle than she did with Greta. And that hurt her deeply. Because of that she began to hate both Finn and June, because they were never around when she needed them. She just wanted to her sister back to her, but she didn't know how to achieve that. And that put her in a lot of situations that turned out more harmful than good. Finn is a well respected artist, but he quit showing his paintings a long time ago. Before he died, he made a final piece - a picture of Greta and June and called it \"Tell the wolves i'm home\". Just that picture showed how much Finn loved them both, and that picture has a great deal of influence in the story. It is as important as it's characters. We find a lot about him from the stories Finn and June tell each other. Toby is the shadow - no one seems to be noticing him. June didn't even know that he existed. Her mother hates him with passion and blames him for \"killing\" Finn, her only brother. But as the story goes, you notice that there is more to him than it seems, and he is the true gem of this story. Without him, this story wouldn't be as much as heartbreaking as it was. He loved Finn so much - he truly loved him, and to him Finn was his world. Without Finn, he would once again be no one and nobody. But June changes that when she comes into his life,as much as he comes into hers. \u201cI just thought, maybe we\u2019re supposed to try to, you know, move on,\u201d I said. Toby glanced up. I thought he\u2019d looked older when I saw him earlier, but now, without the coat, he seemed younger. Shrunk down to nothing. He cocked his head and stared at me with a puzzled expression. \u201cBut where would we move to?\u201d ____________________________________________ Overall : ____________________________________________ This story was just so beautiful, so heartbreaking and so emotional. Like i said before, almost every chapter made me cry, and the end of the book made me cry a river. But it was worth every tear and every sad feeling that i had while reading it. The magic of this book was that i could connect with every character, to truly understand them. Excuse me while i go cry in the corner, because, even though i have read it hours ago, i still think about this book, and i still feel like crying. And for the end: \u201cYou think there are second chances? Do you? Well, there aren\u2019t. They dart right by, and before you know it . . . before you even know what\u2019s happened they\u2019re just a blur in the distance. And then what? Then what are you supposed to do? Go read this book. Now. This review can be found on my blog: infinity-of-time.blogspot.com also known as... ...more It's the most unhappy people who want to stay alive, because they think they haven't done everything they want to do. My thoughts and reactions have always been mixed when it comes to books which take the reader on a reflective stroll. Fast-paced would never come to mind, nor would action-packed. Words like \"slow\" and \"quiet\" tend to fall more in line with these types of reads. All too often, I find myself wondering what I've gotten myself into when I pick up books such as these. Just about e It's the most unhappy people who want to stay alive, because they think they haven't done everything they want to do. My thoughts and reactions have always been mixed when it comes to books which take the reader on a reflective stroll. Fast-paced would never come to mind, nor would action-packed. Words like \"slow\" and \"quiet\" tend to fall more in line with these types of reads. All too often, I find myself wondering what I've gotten myself into when I pick up books such as these. Just about every single time, I think I might not end up liking the book because the story tends to meander along by taking the scenic route instead of getting right to the point. But then sure enough, by the time I reach the end, I wind up glad that I took the journey. Tell the Wolves I'm Home is set in the 1980's, during a time when AIDS education was minimal and truth was scarce (and girls like me were still using Sun-In to wreck their hair). People were still afraid of the unknown. While moments of fear were touched upon, the tone of the story had less to do with fear of a disease, and more to do with the fear of moving on after loss. The intro chapters of TTWIH made me a little nervous. At first, the writing style read somewhat like a memoir (which would be fine if it was a memoir, but not so much for fiction) and I almost made the decision to quit out. I didn't think I was going to be able to hang with an entire book of \"memories\" about a person who was no longer present. Thankfully, after a few memory recaps in order to set up the main character's mindset, the story decided to travel along and move forward from the past as much as possible. While the past was never far from the surface, it was something which shaped the characters into who they were now, instead of being the sole weight of the story. Was I ever surprised when I realized that the entire crux of the plot was going to revolve around a young teenager and her tentative time spent with the surviving boyfriend of her dead uncle (not a spoiler; he's gone from the start of the book). Odd couple? Absolutely. Yet, somehow it worked. What if everything I loved about Finn had come from Toby? These two characters needed each other in order to move on. In learning to lean on one another, they both discovered their individual value as people. Please promise to take the very best care of my only girl. With so much love my heart might split in two... I was probably one of the rare few who didn't cry while reading this book, but I was still inspired and left emotional by the characters' interactions with each other. Books like this continue to remind me to appreciate what we have while we have it, and to remember to say what we need to say while we still can. ...more All right, enough's enough. I've been hinting about how much I loved (and cried over) Tell the Wolves I'm Home for two years now. Maybe I should actually give this book the review it deserve. Oh, June. She is just the picture of a precocious, reserved, anxiety-ridden teenager. Having been one of those myself, I couldn't help but love her, especially for gems like these: \"Watching people is a good hobby, but you have to be careful about it. You can't let people catch you staring at them. If people All right, enough's enough. I've been hinting about how much I loved (and cried over) Tell the Wolves I'm Home for two years now. Maybe I should actually give this book the review it deserve. Oh, June. She is just the picture of a precocious, reserved, anxiety-ridden teenager. Having been one of those myself, I couldn't help but love her, especially for gems like these: \"Watching people is a good hobby, but you have to be careful about it. You can't let people catch you staring at them. If people catch you, they treat you like a first-class criminal. And maybe they're right to do that. Maybe it should be a crime to try to see things about people they don't want you to see.\" As a girl who had a totally weird crush on her \"cool uncle\" as a child, this examination of how confusing love can be when you're young really hit home with me. Exploring the inner workings of a teenager dealing with multiple kinds of grief is ambitious, and Brunt's writing felt authentic in a way very few books achieve. \u201cI wasn't interested in drinking beer or vodka or smoking cigarettes or doing all the other things Greta thinks I can't even imagine. I don't want to imagine those things. Anyone can imagine things like that. I want to imagine wrinkled time, and forests thick with wolves, and bleak midnight moors. I dream about people who don't need to have sex to know they love each other. I dream about people who would only ever kiss you on the cheek.\u201d I had devoured this book in two days. I wept almost every third page at some discovered beauty, at some poetic turn of phrase, at a beautiful idea or creative turn Brunt took with the narrative. I loved the characters. I felt their pain. I wanted to lift them from the words and put them safely in my pockets. There's so much to explore about this sibling relationships, parental pressure/expectations and AIDS hysteria in the 1980s. but I'd much rather you just read it for yourself. If you like stories about love, grief, families, or being a teenager (or anyone at any age for that matter) trying to survive the messiness of life, I implore you to pick this one up. Its being two year since I've read this one and No other book has come close to invoking the same emotions and turmoil and maybe it'll take a while for another book to match upto this. And that's fine. Meanwhile, I\u2019m going to let June\u2019s wolves howl in my heart as long as they want. ...more My heart is shattered. Review to come. ** Reread August 2013 I am not a reader that willing walks into a tear jerker or an emotionally evocative book knowingly. Why? I am silly sensitive person that gets completely enmeshed in the world created by writers and I can\u2019t let go of that world once I am in it. I walked into Tell The Wolves I\u2019m Home understanding that it was a powerful book dealing with death and grief, but I was not prepared for how it would affect me. The thing I forget about books that make me cry are that those books, when done right and wri I am not a reader that willing walks into a tear jerker or an emotionally evocative book knowingly. Why? I am silly sensitive person that gets completely enmeshed in the world created by writers and I can\u2019t let go of that world once I am in it. I walked into Tell The Wolves I\u2019m Home understanding that it was a powerful book dealing with death and grief, but I was not prepared for how it would affect me. The thing I forget about books that make me cry are that those books, when done right and written by talented authors, also make me hope. Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home left me with hope and filled with a feeling of love for those close to me. Perhaps having grown up during the 1980s and remembering the scare of AIDS during that time period as well, brought the book much closer to my heart. Ms. Rifka Brunt writes about the late 1980s as if it was now, not that she misses the ambience and the cultural differences but what I mean, is that she writes about the 1980s without exaggeration and too much nostalgia. The 1980s just are in Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home, the era gives further depth to the story but the era itself is not raised to a heightened level. At the center of the story is a young girl June, who ranges in age from 12 to 14 in the book, that is an odd ball. Like many teens she feels awkward in her body and socially awkward in her high school. She prefers to run to the woods beyond her house and pretend and imagine. Through her play she transports herself back to the medieval period and becomes someone new. Brunt writes so well that beautiful time when we could so easily trick our minds we were somewhere else and the transition to when we can no longer do this because we know the real world too well. Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home dances around the themes of sibling relationships between adults (June\u2019s mom and her uncle) and during the process of growing up (June\u2019s relationship with her older sister Greta). Anyone with siblings knows that these relationships can be wonderful and rewarding, but may be really challenging and hurtful. Along the path of these relationships, life happens and can alter how siblings treat each other for life. Can siblings change? Will they remain close? Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home opens the relationships up for the readers to see. June\u2019s relationship with her sister Greta drove me to tears more than once, man Brunt captured the pain sisters can cause each other. She wrote perfectly, the pain and jealousy siblings feel not only for each other but because they miss how they were as children. Not to be forgotten, are themes of ostracization and fear. AIDS was relatively new in the late 1980s and the fear was ripe \u2014 so was the embarrassment of association. Sometimes it takes the heart and naivet\u00e9 of a child to over come that fear and reach out to those that need it. This book has everything and just needs to be read. I can be a skimmer, but I did not skim one word in Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home, rather I would reverse and re-read passages again and again. It is an amazing first novel by a brilliant author that I will be watching and waiting for her next effort. I highly recommend this book. To read more of this review and others like it check out: www.badassbookreviews.com ...more Bullet Review: Unpopular opinion time!! I know a lot of people love this book (I don't think I have a single friend who hasn't rated this AT LEAST four stars), but this book is a perfect example of schlocky litfic: 1. A \"quirky older than her age\" protagonist who thinks she's ugly and unloved when she's clearly not. 2. Vile, dysfunctional, borderline abusive relationships within immediate family. 3. Someone who suffers and/or dies from cancer or a disease. 4. ANGST!!! 5. Characters that are meant to b Bullet Review: Unpopular opinion time!! I know a lot of people love this book (I don't think I have a single friend who hasn't rated this AT LEAST four stars), but this book is a perfect example of schlocky litfic: 1. A \"quirky older than her age\" protagonist who thinks she's ugly and unloved when she's clearly not. 2. Vile, dysfunctional, borderline abusive relationships within immediate family. 3. Someone who suffers and/or dies from cancer or a disease. 4. ANGST!!! 5. Characters that are meant to be sympathetic who come across instead as creepy. 6. Absentee parenting. 7. Scenes written for the sake of making you cry. 8. MOAR ANGST!! 9. Deep Life Lessons learned from Art. 10. EVEN MOAR ANGST!!! A shame, because I had a lot of hopes for this book. On the bright side, a scene towards the end saved this from a 1 star rating. But not once was I EVER close to being in tears (I must be a robot or something), and often I found it a struggle to continue to wade through June's selfish, mopey pity-party. Full Review: June Elbus has a close relationship with her uncle, Finn, who is dying of AIDS. After his death, she is approached by Finn's \"special friend\" (boyfriend) and starts up a relationship without her parents' knowledge. Also, her parents are too busy with tax season, her sister, Greta, is a b!tch, and June had a romantic crush on her uncle. I should know better than to read lit fic. Time and time and time again I try to pick up one of these, and I end up depressed and pretty damned disappointed. This time was no different; my Book Club was choosing books and, based on the summary, I thought this would be pretty interesting. I lived in the 80's, but was very young, so I don't remember much of the AIDs epidemic. So the concept of the uncle's boyfriend meeting up with the niece to have a relationship was pretty cool. I didn't realize though that the niece would be FOURTEEN. I didn't realize that the FOURTEEN-year-old niece would be approached by her uncle's boyfriend behind her parents' backs. I didn't realize that said boyfriend would then tell a FOURTEEN-year-old girl NOT TO TELL HER PARENTS about meeting him. And I didn't realize that the FOURTEEN-year-old girl would be able to run all over New York City to meet up with her uncle's boyfriend. Because yeah, June is FOURTEEN when she's doing all this and Finn tells her explicitly NOT TO TELL HER PARENTS. Her parents (conveniently absent through most of the book, being preoccupied with \"tax season\") have no idea where June is; so if June just doesn't come home one night, no one would be able to say where she was or what she was doing. I realize that in my own life, I was EXTREMELY sheltered (I basically didn't leave the house on my own until I started college at 18, and even then, it was straight to classes and back). But is it too much to ask for a FOURTEEN-year-old to give her parents an idea where she is? What's she's doing? Who she's hanging out with? I'm not talking umbilical cord, just an FYI? What kind of failure of parents are these that they NEVER ASK about where FOURTEEN-year-old June is during \"tax season\"?! What was life like BEFORE she was FOURTEEN? Did they frequently leave the two-year-olds in the play pen while they were busy with \"tax season\"?! And I know Toby's not supposed to come across as creepy (at least, that's what I thought - a friend had the alternate idea that maybe that was the point). But a man, twice her age, approaching her (basically stalking - he does appear at her school one day and whisk her away to Playland) and saying, \"Hey, let's hang out - only don't tell your parents. And how about you come down to the basement WHERE THERE IS A CAGE?\" just doesn't sound on the up-and-up. I'm sorry, I want to like Toby, I want my heart to ache for him in his loss, but I just can't get over how an ADULT told a FOURTEEN-year-old to meet up and not tell her parents. I don't care your motivations, you don't tell children, CHILDREN, not to go to an authority figure. Children need to be protected; they are vulnerable. And I don't care that Toby has no one else, lost the love of his life, he shouldn't be stalking June and begging her to hang out with him all the while concealing that knowledge from her parents. She's FOURTEEN after all. Other than Greta (and even that pushed my boundaries more than once), there were no characters I cared about. Most of the characters were pretty flat and unimpressive. June in particular was annoying; I absolutely despised her monologue (though I'll concede that part of this could be due to the obnoxious voice that the narrator used) about how awful her life is, how no one loves her, how she is the ONLY ONE to understand Finn and love him SO DAMN MUCH. I get it, she's FOURTEEN, she doesn't know better - except for when she has these miraculous insights (and can run around without parental knowledge??). Greta is an awful sister; I would very much have loved to beat her over the head. Her behavior is bullying, pure and simple. It's appalling, honestly, how the parents have so little control over this abusive relationship (though this is not necessarily a fault of the author, more of a burst of outrage on my part for how realistic this can be). On the other hand, I totally understood why she behaved the way she did, and wanted to beat JUNE over the head for not getting it (so much for being so \"smart\" and \"adult\" June!!). The parents were so bland and personality-less - of course, it's Mom's fault she has a bad relationship with Finn, because she's homophobic and jealous. Nothing about maybe Finn getting a bit too big of a head and thinking he's so much more important than she is. Finn can do no wrong; he's a rich artist, which I'm not sure how that happened. Everyone loves his work; he devotes his time to help people in jail, and he probably also farts rainbows too. As for Toby - I'm sorry, he's creepy. Like I said above, he approaches June, a FOURTEEN-year-old, and tells her not to tell her parents about him. I get he needs people and interaction, but it's also FRAKKIN' creepy to go around stalking FOURTEEN-year-olds and asking them to keep secrets from their parents. When the story isn't about June whining about how awful her life is or how her parents are always busy, we have ANGST, ANGST, and MOAR ANGST. The book wallows in it, and honestly, it gets exhausting. There are points where I'm pretty sure I'm supposed to side with June, when I most certainly do not (such as when her parents find out about what she's done to the painting). And really, including AIDS and the deaths of a couple of characters just smart of your typical Lit Fic book - \"see how Deep and Important and Dramatic I am!\" That said - I have a ENORMOUS amount of respect because of a scene towards the end of the book. Spoilers ahead. (view spoiler) [June and Greta have the Final Argument, where Greta reveals that her burden isn't so awesome and she always wanted a relationship with Finn, but June shut her out. June also realizes that she's been a jealous, selfish brat. (hide spoiler) ] This gave a LOT of nuance to the two characters, and DEFINITELY improved my opinion of the book - though I still never once was near tears over it. To me, this book is an example of pretty much everything I dislike about reading in general and litfic in specific: flat, unlikeable, unrelatable characters, a story relying mostly on angst, and plot devices tossed in to make it \"gritty\" and \"relevant\" and generate some tears. BUT I am in the minority here; I am the only one of my friends to rate this lower than 4 stars. Many, many people have loved the book and what it means to them. And you know what? That's really great. I'm glad people can look past the problems I had and love this. This book isn't like reading Dan Brown or Nicholas Sparks or EL James. There is a good moral, and the writing isn't terrible (though shame on Brunt for using the \"I blushed so hard, I wanted to faint\" Anita Blakism). It doesn't change my opinion, but I can attest that at least this litfic wasn't a complete waste of my time like some of my other forrays. ...more I have been having a difficult time writing this review. There I said it. Mostly, I think, because this story touched my inner bits. I did not anticipate that, nor did my soft, little underbelly. It is a sad story and I know and confess that for years and years I avoided these kinds of things, I was looking for happy, shiny thoughts, not this, so it is funny then, that it has also brought back memories of the very best chapters of my life. I don\u2019t even know where to begin. This book read me. It is I have been having a difficult time writing this review. There I said it. Mostly, I think, because this story touched my inner bits. I did not anticipate that, nor did my soft, little underbelly. It is a sad story and I know and confess that for years and years I avoided these kinds of things, I was looking for happy, shiny thoughts, not this, so it is funny then, that it has also brought back memories of the very best chapters of my life. I don\u2019t even know where to begin. This book read me. It is strong and tender, quietly whispering, gently hovering; it tells you things you already knew, but needed to hear, out loud. It is a book of sorrow and regret,love and hope, the real, inner voice stuff. This book is beautiful but, more than that, well beyond that\u2026\u2026\u2026 it is also surprisingly joyful and deeply evocative. I was left gasping and glowing in it's aftermath. It is not my book, at all really, but my daughter\u2019s and she will likely think I read it in the rain or snow, but those are just my tears. Prolific tears, who knew. I first heard about this from karen, whose review convinced me to read it, thank you! I shall, however always associate this incredible work with my daughter Arah-Leah, whose very book, I hold within my hands and who lives within the very best chapters of my life. ...more I enjoyed every bit of this book! June is a fourteen year old girl who is kind of on the quirky side. She feels like she doesn\u2019t belong to her time and imagines she\u2019s in the middle ages, she wears medieval boots given to her by her uncle Finn. She also has talent for visual art, but she doesn\u2019t quite believe it. Finn is dying from AIDS when the virus was new and little was known about it. He\u2019s a famous New York artist, and before he dies he wishes to paint a portrait of his nieces, June and Greta I enjoyed every bit of this book! June is a fourteen year old girl who is kind of on the quirky side. She feels like she doesn\u2019t belong to her time and imagines she\u2019s in the middle ages, she wears medieval boots given to her by her uncle Finn. She also has talent for visual art, but she doesn\u2019t quite believe it. Finn is dying from AIDS when the virus was new and little was known about it. He\u2019s a famous New York artist, and before he dies he wishes to paint a portrait of his nieces, June and Greta. Greta is a sixteen year old who is advanced a grade because she is too smart for her own good, and musically talented. But she\u2019s as mean as a snake to June and takes every opportunity to hurt her sister she can get. Toby is Finn\u2019s boyfriend of nine years who has been hidden away from the sisters by their mother (Finn\u2019s sister) and father because they don\u2019t know him, and don\u2019t wish to get to know him. Toby is also has AIDS and forms a friendship with June after her beloved uncle Finn passes away from the disease. This is not easy for June, because she believed she was the only person close to Finn. I can relate with Tell the Wolves I\u2019m Home, especially with the character June. I grew up the odd middle child with a popular, smart older sister who was (and is) as mean as a snake. In Greta\u2019s case, it turns out she has a heart. My sister? Not so much, the older she gets the crueler she gets. I make my living as a visual artist, I have a brother who is gay and has been with his partner for fourteen years. I love his partner as much as any brother and I cannot imagine him being hidden away and never knowing him. How very sad that would be. This is a very touching, coming of age book. ...more 4ish stars. An emotionally-charged, fairly well-written novel evocative of the joys and pains of growing up. Brunt gives us some unconventional characters (June, a socially-awkward teenager in love with her gay uncle who has AIDS, and Toby, her uncle's boyfriend who some have labelled \"creepy\" as he desperately tries to form a bond with June). Sure June makes some stupid decisions, and Toby is kind of strange, but they don't deserve to be given voices any less than Finn, the aforementioned uncle 4ish stars. An emotionally-charged, fairly well-written novel evocative of the joys and pains of growing up. Brunt gives us some unconventional characters (June, a socially-awkward teenager in love with her gay uncle who has AIDS, and Toby, her uncle's boyfriend who some have labelled \"creepy\" as he desperately tries to form a bond with June). Sure June makes some stupid decisions, and Toby is kind of strange, but they don't deserve to be given voices any less than Finn, the aforementioned uncle who is an artistic genius and all-around interesting, compassionate, perfect uncle, or Greta, June's sister who is a musical star and all-around clever, smart, typical older sister. Even so, Greta especially provides some surprises late in the game and even the supporting characters (their parents, a boy from school interested in June) are pretty interesting and occasionally reveal surprising depth. Brunt also paints a decent portrait of New York in the mid-1980s in the middle of the AIDS epidemic. She admirably conveys the attitudes and misconceptions held by people at the time. Other than that, a strong sense of setting is largely absent except for passing mentions of various then-current events. June's narrating voice is inconsistent and wrought with faux-deep wisdom at odds with her 14-year-old actions even if it does make for a lot of lovely, quotable proverbs. The plot builds slowly from an archetypal coming-of-age beginning to a satisfyingly stirring finale. The fourth star is really because the book elicited such an emotional response from me. Not gonna lie, I came pretty close to crying several times. :'( ...more This review has been revised and can now be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud . 4.5/5 stars. I finished this book really fast because it was so good and nothing like I expected. I knew that it was going to be a story about AIDS, but I didn't know that it was told from a child's perspective which - in my opinion - gave the story so much more depth. 14-year-old June is very observant and has the most amazing views on life, but she is also very naive and only gradully realizes what has really been going on with Finn, her beloved uncle who suffers from AIDS. When Finn dies (thi 4.5/5 stars. I finished this book really fast because it was so good and nothing like I expected. I knew that it was going to be a story about AIDS, but I didn't know that it was told from a child's perspective which - in my opinion - gave the story so much more depth. 14-year-old June is very observant and has the most amazing views on life, but she is also very naive and only gradully realizes what has really been going on with Finn, her beloved uncle who suffers from AIDS. When Finn dies (this happens in the beginning and is no spoiler), June learns more and more of the truth and brings the readers with her on her journey of discovery. I don't think I've ever underlined as many phrases as I did in this book. Every second page there seemed to be a beautiful line or an interesting observation on life, or just a curious anecdote from June's life. I loved it, and these hidden but multiple gems kept my interest peaked. Another thing I fell absolutely in love with was the comfy and safe family life we get in this story. June is loved by her family, and even though she feels secluded from everyone, you can feel the family love through the pages. I loved reading about snowy days with cocoa and late night with Trivial Pursuit. It all added to June's narrative voice and sometimes naive, however curious observations on life. This is a beautiful story about how one person can change your life completely. It is also a story about how AIDS was perceived when the disease first became well-known and acknowledged in the 1980s. If you like stories \u00e0 la \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" told from a child's perspective, I cannot recommend this book enough. It definitely took me by surprise and has now become one of my highly regarded comfort reads :) ...more 4.5 Rating! I just finished reading this story--(didn't want to stop) ---so I kept on reading 'before' my normal early morning exercise (walk,yoga, spin, or 'something'). Then...I also just noticed there are 'many' already High rating reviews --(a few low ones)... A few readers thought this book might be better as a Young Adult read. I WAS fully engaged with this story --(yet its not without flaws)... My reason for the high rating was 'pure-involvement' ---I was invested --and I was thinking --I was 4.5 Rating! I just finished reading this story--(didn't want to stop) ---so I kept on reading 'before' my normal early morning exercise (walk,yoga, spin, or 'something'). Then...I also just noticed there are 'many' already High rating reviews --(a few low ones)... A few readers thought this book might be better as a Young Adult read. I WAS fully engaged with this story --(yet its not without flaws)... My reason for the high rating was 'pure-involvement' ---I was invested --and I was thinking --I was touched --I also 'questioned' a few things a few things which were pretty off base ---(but kept forgiving them)... There are main characters --and supporting characters! There is a dominate theme --yet there is many 'sub' themes! I could find much to discuss about with others....(always a good sign of a Fiction book)... Overall: I liked it!!! I pulled a couple of quotes from the book (I haven't seen these in other reviews --so I'll post them).... As they 'both' leave the reader with something to very authentic (as human beings), with thoughts to think about ---(if we are being honest). I am NOT giving away a thing in the story. 1) \"If You were happy, then you would want to stay alive, wouldn't you? You'd want to be alive forever, so you could keep being happy.\" \"No, no. It's the most unhappy people who want to stay alive, because they think they haven't done everything they want to do. They think they haven't had enough time. They feel like they've been short changed\". 2) \"I knew the way hopes could be dangerous, how they could turn a person into someone they never thought they'd be.\" ...more Maalesef herkesin aksine ben bir t\u00fcrl\u00fc sevemedim. Ne hikayenin i\u00e7ine girebildim ne de hikayenin amac\u0131n\u0131 anlayabildim. Kitap boyunca g\u00f6rd\u00fc\u011f\u00fcm tek \u015fey day\u0131s\u0131na saplant\u0131l\u0131 k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck bir k\u0131z oldu. O nedenle okumay\u0131 tercih etmedim ve 300 sayfadan sonra yar\u0131m b\u0131rakmaya karar verdim. Not: 100 sayfa daha tekrar okudum ama sonu\u00e7 yine ayn\u0131 ve maalesef ki kitap okuyamama durumuna kap\u0131lar\u0131m\u0131 sonuna kadar a\u00e7t\u0131m :( Ve 3. Okumada sonu g\u00f6rebildim. \u015e\u00fck\u00fcr. Herkesin sevdi\u011fi be\u011fendi\u011fi kadar sevmedim. Okudu\u011fum en iyi kita Maalesef herkesin aksine ben bir t\u00fcrl\u00fc sevemedim. Ne hikayenin i\u00e7ine girebildim ne de hikayenin amac\u0131n\u0131 anlayabildim. Kitap boyunca g\u00f6rd\u00fc\u011f\u00fcm tek \u015fey day\u0131s\u0131na saplant\u0131l\u0131 k\u00fc\u00e7\u00fck bir k\u0131z oldu. O nedenle okumay\u0131 tercih etmedim ve 300 sayfadan sonra yar\u0131m b\u0131rakmaya karar verdim. Not: 100 sayfa daha tekrar okudum ama sonu\u00e7 yine ayn\u0131 ve maalesef ki kitap okuyamama durumuna kap\u0131lar\u0131m\u0131 sonuna kadar a\u00e7t\u0131m :( Ve 3. Okumada sonu g\u00f6rebildim. \u015e\u00fck\u00fcr. Herkesin sevdi\u011fi be\u011fendi\u011fi kadar sevmedim. Okudu\u011fum en iyi kitap da de\u011fil kesinlikle. Sevgi ve sevginin t\u00fcrlerini ba\u015far\u0131l\u0131 bir \u015fekilde anlatm\u0131\u015f. Fakat \u00e7ok zahmetli bir kitap oldu\u011funu d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcn\u00fcyorum. ...more Complex. Powerful. Poignant. Incredibly sad. Tell the Wolves I'm Home is a beautifully written novel, and I sort of feel guilty for not enjoying it as much as I should have. But I had a hard time connecting with the eighties settings, sadly it's all a little before my time, and everything was just a bit too depressing, so I can't say I had any fun while reading this novel either. But Carol Rifka Brunt does an amazing job writing, setting the mood, crafting June's character. It's surprising, becau Complex. Powerful. Poignant. Incredibly sad. Tell the Wolves I'm Home is a beautifully written novel, and I sort of feel guilty for not enjoying it as much as I should have. But I had a hard time connecting with the eighties settings, sadly it's all a little before my time, and everything was just a bit too depressing, so I can't say I had any fun while reading this novel either. But Carol Rifka Brunt does an amazing job writing, setting the mood, crafting June's character. It's surprising, because even though June's clearly very close with her Uncle Finn, in the grand scheme of things he's still just her uncle, and this book turned out much sadder than many books I've read focusing on the death of a sibling or even a parent. And even more surprising, Brunt does it, not by having June cry or wallow or tell us how empty she feels, but through her actions, and more importantly, through a million anecdotes and personal stories about her and her Uncle Finn. It's all very powerful and very touching. And eventually, I couldn't help but feel for June, and then for Toby, and then even for her sister Greta - it all left my stomach feeling like a pit of despair. Whether or not that's a good thing, I'm not sure. Beyond just the personal touches, Brunt also hits on some important themes. I liked the focus on AIDS, how it was completely unknown at the time, how June wasn't sure if such mundane things such as tears or touch or even a kiss could get her infected, problems we really don't have today. But at the same time, it's kind of hard for me to empathize with June's parents, how they're deliberately cruel towards Toby or tried to keep Finn away from his nieces as he's dying because of that fear, because we know today those kinds of fears are rather irrational, and I really don't remember a time when adults could behave like that. So I ended up really hating June's parents and didn't really feel like they redeemed themselves in the end, which I have a feeling is not what Brunt intended. But I do have a feeling that Brunt intended June's relationships, with Finn, with Tobey, even with Greta, to be very complex, and I loved having to guess and trying to figure out what each of them meant to June. June and Tobey's relationship is definitely the most complex; she starts out thinking he killed Finn, and watching that evolution and how everything plays out gave a purpose to the story, although June and Greta's was wasn't bad either and June and Finn's does get fleshed out via old stories as the plot advances. But I didn't like the ending at all, because when June finally clarifies those relationships, admits her feelings to Toby, I'm left wondering - that's it? It all seemed too simple for how complex those relationships felt to me. Even though I didn't like Tell the Wolves I'm Home as much as I wanted to, this is still the rare book that has stayed with me. I would definitely read it just as a reminder of how powerful a book can be, it's easy to forget that nowadays because most books aren't like this, but this is the rare read I'm still pondering over even now after I've finished. ...more This is me after finishing read this book: I can imagine in my head Carol Rifka Brunt deciding to write a book. I can see her thinking what can I say and write that will leave an impact on my readers. What will make them remember this book straight until they take their last breath. *Scratches Head* that's it's, I'll write about an issue that are real and true to everyone....AIDS and To top it all off I'm going to tell this story in the POV of a fourteen year old girl call June. Be prepared to This is me after finishing read this book: I can imagine in my head Carol Rifka Brunt deciding to write a book. I can see her thinking what can I say and write that will leave an impact on my readers. What will make them remember this book straight until they take their last breath. *Scratches Head* that's it's, I'll write about an issue that are real and true to everyone....AIDS and To top it all off I'm going to tell this story in the POV of a fourteen year old girl call June. Be prepared to have your thought systems shaken and tested. Be prepared to think and over analyzed what you think you know and what you know to be right. Be prepared to cry and cry and cry your eyeballs out, because every character that is revealed you will can't help but relate to their situation/plight. As the story progress and the layers are peeled away we see the raw beauty and fragile intangible lines that connect the people and family and events that unfold. This Eloquently Scripted masterpiece is a must read that will leave you thinking about it for months and years to come. Tell the Wolves I'm Home is a book I personally think that everyone should read and re read time and time again. ...more ''Yaln\u0131zca d\u00fcnyan\u0131n en mutsuz insanlar\u0131 sonsuza dek ya\u015famay\u0131 ister, \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc hayatlar\u0131 boyunca istedikleri hi\u00e7bir \u015feyi yapamad\u0131klar\u0131n\u0131 d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcn\u00fcrler. Yeterince zamanlar\u0131 olmad\u0131\u011f\u0131n\u0131, hayattan paylar\u0131na d\u00fc\u015feni alamad\u0131klar\u0131n\u0131 hissederler.'' *\u00d6n S\u00f6z* Bu kitab\u0131 okumaya ba\u015flad\u0131\u011f\u0131mda, arka k\u0131sm\u0131nda okudu\u011fum \u015feyler haricinde ba\u015fka hi\u00e7bir \u015fey bilmiyordum; ne oldu\u011fu hakk\u0131nda bir fikir edinmek i\u00e7in bakmaya yeltendim, ancak bir farkl\u0131l\u0131k olsun diyen i\u00e7 sesime uyarak son anda vazge\u00e7tim. Bir kitaba ba\u015flamadan \u00f6nce ''Yaln\u0131zca d\u00fcnyan\u0131n en mutsuz insanlar\u0131 sonsuza dek ya\u015famay\u0131 ister, \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc hayatlar\u0131 boyunca istedikleri hi\u00e7bir \u015feyi yapamad\u0131klar\u0131n\u0131 d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcn\u00fcrler. Yeterince zamanlar\u0131 olmad\u0131\u011f\u0131n\u0131, hayattan paylar\u0131na d\u00fc\u015feni alamad\u0131klar\u0131n\u0131 hissederler.'' *\u00d6n S\u00f6z* Bu kitab\u0131 okumaya ba\u015flad\u0131\u011f\u0131mda, arka k\u0131sm\u0131nda okudu\u011fum \u015feyler haricinde ba\u015fka hi\u00e7bir \u015fey bilmiyordum; ne oldu\u011fu hakk\u0131nda bir fikir edinmek i\u00e7in bakmaya yeltendim, ancak bir farkl\u0131l\u0131k olsun diyen i\u00e7 sesime uyarak son anda vazge\u00e7tim. Bir kitaba ba\u015flamadan \u00f6nce di\u011fer insanlar\u0131n okuyaca\u011f\u0131m kitap ile ilgili neler d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnd\u00fc\u011f\u00fc hakk\u0131nda bir bilgi sahibi olmak benim i\u00e7in al\u0131\u015fkanl\u0131ktan \u00f6te refleks haline geldi\u011fi i\u00e7in, bu i\u00e7 sese uymak elbette ki kolay olmad\u0131. Fakat \u015fu an diyorum ki iyi ki de onu dinlemi\u015fim; zira bir fikre sahip olmak i\u00e7in yorumlar\u0131 okusayd\u0131m, biraz teredd\u00fctlerim olabilirdi bu kitap hakk\u0131nda. *Kitap \u00d6zeti* Kitap Finn'in \u00f6lmeden \u00f6nce, June ve Greta'y\u0131 \u00e7izdi\u011fi ve ad\u0131n\u0131 ''kurtlara s\u00f6yle eve d\u00f6nd\u00fcm'' verdi\u011fi portresini yap\u0131m a\u015famas\u0131ndayken ba\u015fl\u0131yor ve as\u0131l hikaye de Finn'in \u00f6l\u00fcm\u00fcnden sonra geli\u015fiyor. Bu pek spoiler say\u0131lmaz \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc okuduktan birka\u00e7 sayfa sonras\u0131nda zaten \u00f6\u011freniyorsunuz bunu ve o zamana kadar da s\u0131\u011f bir \u015fekilde ilerliyor olaylar, sizi daha derin bir hikayenin i\u00e7erisine atmadan \u00f6nce haz\u0131rlanman\u0131z\u0131 sa\u011fl\u0131yor b\u00f6ylelikle. June i\u00e7in amcas\u0131 Finn'in \u00f6l\u00fcm\u00fc sindirmesi zor bir ger\u00e7ek oluyor \u00e7\u00fcnk\u00fc bedeninin her zerresi bu adama hayran. \u00c7izimine, d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnme mant\u0131\u011f\u0131na, konu\u015fmas\u0131na, yapt\u0131\u011f\u0131 her \u015feye ve att\u0131\u011f\u0131 her ad\u0131mda June daha da etkileniyor bu adamdan. Bu y\u00fczden AIDS y\u00fcz\u00fcnden vefat etti\u011finde, ona bu laneti bula\u015ft\u0131ran ki\u015fi olarak d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnd\u00fc\u011f\u00fc Finn'in erkek arkada\u015f\u0131 Toby'den nefret ediyor, \u00f6zellikle de onu kendisinden ald\u0131\u011f\u0131 fikri beynine t\u00fcm\u00f6r gibi yay\u0131l\u0131nca. Ancak Finn'in \u00f6l\u00fcm\u00fcnden sonra June'a bir telefonla ula\u015fan Toby, Finn hakk\u0131nda bildi\u011fi her \u015feyi anlatmak gibi cazip bir fikirle ortaya \u00e7\u0131k\u0131nca, June merak\u0131 ve nefreti aras\u0131nda s\u0131k\u0131\u015f\u0131p kal\u0131yor. Bu teklife bir \u015fans vermek i\u00e7in Toby ile konu\u015ftu\u011funda ise June, asl\u0131nda amcas\u0131n\u0131 neredeyse hi\u00e7 tan\u0131m\u0131yor olu\u015funun verdi\u011fi ger\u00e7ek kafas\u0131na y\u0131ld\u0131r\u0131m h\u0131z\u0131yla d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcp gururu inciniyor ve beynine damlayan hayal k\u0131r\u0131kl\u0131\u011f\u0131 dolu d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnceler sonucu sars\u0131l\u0131yor. Bunun sebebinin ise Toby'nin ona s\u00f6ylediklerinin kendisini \u015fa\u015f\u0131rtmamas\u0131, aksine, duydu\u011fu yeni bilgileri \u00e7oktan biliyor olmas\u0131 gerekti\u011fi oldu\u011funu sanarken; as\u0131l sebebinin Finn'in ona hayattayken g\u00f6sterdi\u011fi d\u00fcnyas\u0131n\u0131n, yalanlar ve utan\u00e7larla el ele tutu\u015fup ona oyun oynad\u0131\u011f\u0131n\u0131 anlamas\u0131. \u00c7\u00fcnk\u00fc June sadece uzaktan bir izleyen olmu\u015f, asla Toby kadar hayat\u0131na yakla\u015famam\u0131\u015ft\u0131. \u0130\u015fte bu anda Toby ile onun aras\u0131nda olu\u015fan dostane ili\u015fkinin k\u0131v\u0131lc\u0131mlar\u0131 yava\u015f yava\u015f alevlenirken, birden kendilerini sevdikleri adam\u0131n ger\u00e7ekten ya\u015fad\u0131\u011f\u0131 hayat\u0131 ve utan\u00e7lar\u0131n\u0131 tekrardan canland\u0131r\u0131rken bulacaklar. *Yorumum* Bu kitapta iki t\u00fcrl\u00fc a\u015fk var. Birinin i\u00e7i hayranl\u0131k dolu, yani merkezi ak\u0131ldan; di\u011ferinin i\u00e7inde ise her \u015feyiyle sevme durumu var, bu da kalpten hissedilen. \u0130kisinin ortak noktas\u0131 ise tamam\u0131yla saf hislerden olu\u015fmalar\u0131 ve al\u0131\u015f\u0131lmam\u0131\u015fl\u0131klar\u0131n \u00fcst\u00fcnde kurulu olmas\u0131. 14 ya\u015f\u0131ndaki bir k\u0131z\u0131n amcas\u0131na duydu\u011fu hayranl\u0131ktan a\u015fka d\u00f6n\u00fc\u015fen hislerini okumak, itiraf etmem gerekir ki pek s\u0131k kar\u015f\u0131la\u015ft\u0131\u011f\u0131m ve normal say\u0131labilecek bir durum de\u011fil. Daha \u00f6nce iyi ki nas\u0131l bir kitap oldu\u011funa bakmam\u0131\u015f\u0131m derken bundan bahsediyordum. Her hal\u00fckarda \u00f6n yarg\u0131ma uyaca\u011f\u0131m\u0131 d\u00fc\u015f\u00fcnm\u00fcyorum; ama kitab\u0131 sonralara atabilirdim ve \u015fimdi bitirdi\u011fim i\u00e7in sevin\u00e7liyim. Parmak bas\u0131lacak ger\u00e7ekler ile donat\u0131lm\u0131\u015ft\u0131 kitab\u0131n her bir yan\u0131 bu y\u00fczden \u00e7ok \u015feye g\u00f6zlerimin a\u00e7\u0131lmas\u0131n\u0131 da sa\u011flad\u0131 ayr\u0131ca bu kitap. 500 sayfa gibi pek de k\u0131sa g\u00f6z\u00fckmeyen bu eseri, tahmin edilenin aksine bir solukta bitiyorsunuz da b\u00f6ylelikle. 14 ya\u015f\u0131ndaki bir k\u0131z\u0131n d\u00fcnyas\u0131ndan olaylar\u0131 izlemek ba\u015fta beni endi\u015felendirse de \u00e7ok ge\u00e7meden bunun bir sorun olmad\u0131\u011f\u0131n\u0131 anlad\u0131m; zira ya\u015f\u0131 daha gen\u00e7 olsa bile olgunlu\u011fu \u015fa\u015f\u0131lacak ve benimsenecek cinstendi. Sonu \u00e7ok etkiledi ve bunun \u00f6tesi duyguland\u0131rd\u0131 da. Bittikten sonra kitab\u0131 haf\u0131zamdan silmek istedim, b\u00f6ylelikle bir daha bu kitab\u0131 okuman\u0131n verdi\u011fi zevki ilk defaym\u0131\u015f gibi tadabilecektim. Benzersiz bir \u015fey okumak isteyenlere kesinlikle \u00f6neririm, zira \u015fu s\u0131ralar bundan daha tabu y\u0131k\u0131c\u0131 bir kitap okumam\u0131\u015ft\u0131m ben. Sizlere de iyi okumalar dilerim! ...more Tell the Wolves I'm Home is a deceptive book. Reading the blurb or a summary and you'd think this was your average 80s or 90s after school special. Teenage girl who doesn't fit in, estranged from her overworked parents and her sister who is more cool than she is and grieving an uncle who died of AIDS, the only person who truly understood her. Surely this won teen fic awards in the 90s and was written by the hip author of time. But despite that premise the book does take off. At the beginning I w Tell the Wolves I'm Home is a deceptive book. Reading the blurb or a summary and you'd think this was your average 80s or 90s after school special. Teenage girl who doesn't fit in, estranged from her overworked parents and her sister who is more cool than she is and grieving an uncle who died of AIDS, the only person who truly understood her. Surely this won teen fic awards in the 90s and was written by the hip author of time. But despite that premise the book does take off. At the beginning I was thinking ho-hum after school special, but about page 50-70 it starts to take off. It becomes more complex. The relationships contain more layers than what you expect and there are deeper tragedies in these peoples lives than the death of an uncle. This book reminds me of two other novels that I have read recently. Firstly 'Among Others' by Jo Walton in that it is written in the first person by a troubled teenage girl. And the characters are wonderful and tragic. It also reminded me a lot of Donna Tartt's 'The Goldfinch' in that it it also contains a troubled teen, but also revolves around an artwork. I won't say more about this artwork because potential spoilers abound. But it is a beautiful addition to the story and is used wisely. The author's descriptions of objects and places also reminded me of Donna Tartt. So overall I greatly enjoyed this read despite my misgivings at the start and I may have even shed a tear or two. And I'd like to thank those who read this on Goodreads and especially Diane for recommending it. It is probably not something I would have picked up for myself in the bookshop. Another winner for Goodreads and the great friends you make on here. ...more Sweet sad story. I just stepped back in time with June to the time this story was set. I was that nerdy girl that just didn't feel like she fit in anywhere. This book will break your heart but then restore your soul. https://bookmonstersblog.com/ Tell the Wolves I'm Home ~..... Meaning ~: \u2192 critics and fans alike in order to do battle with AIDS NO NOT Real wolves like below \u2192 more like next picture :D More like this family fighting *wink* Herewith my review! Prologue OR Chapter 1 It dance around the themes and relationship between siblings and adults. The author portrayed feelings, events, and discriminating stigmas as they were during the 80\u2019s! The 80\u2019s: \u2192 was THE era of Madonna, Cyndi Lauper, and Culture Club t https://bookmonstersblog.com/ Tell the Wolves I'm Home ~..... Meaning ~: \u2192 critics and fans alike in order to do battle with AIDS NO NOT Real wolves like below \u2192 more like next picture :D More like this family fighting *wink* Herewith my review! Prologue OR Chapter 1 It dance around the themes and relationship between siblings and adults. The author portrayed feelings, events, and discriminating stigmas as they were during the 80\u2019s! The 80\u2019s: \u2192 was THE era of Madonna, Cyndi Lauper, and Culture Club too mention a few ;-) 0:10 / 3:55 Culture Club - Karma Chameleon https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JmcA9... Like a Prayer \u2013 Madonna https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDnUI... Cyndi Lauper - Time After Time https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VdQY7... THE MOST HORRIBLE WAS THE \u201cTERROR OF AIDS\u201d I am so relieved that Aids, no longer is a feared disease in today\u2019s age! Can you imagine people walking the halls of hospitals miserably, because no one would touch them, no one there to comfort them as they withered and wasted away? Relationship development This book is set in 1986. The main character June Elbus a 14-year-old teenager, a charmingly stubborn narrator. Her emotional journey from devoted, confused, innocent child to courageous and angry rebel teen will resonate with YA readers. Anyone with siblings knows that these interactions can be wonderful and rewarding, but may be really challenging and upsetting! In this \u201cgem\u201d you will get a look at the interactions of June's mom and her uncle Finn as well the connections between June's and older sister Greta. YA readers will also connect with June's clashed relationship with her 16 years old sister Greta. Along the trail of these relationships, life occurs and can change how sisters treat each other for life. June's relationship with her sister Greta drove me to tears more than once, man Brunt captured the pain sisters can cause each other. The pain and distrustful plot was perfectly written. Can siblings change? Will they remain close? Chapter Development June is the goddaughter of her adored uncle Finn, a famous artist who is dying of aids. As one of his last acts, he decides to paint a portrait of June her sister, Greta. Finn personality is warm, caring, and allows June to be herself. He takes her on trips to the city, operas, art museums etc. Finn was a beautiful person who brought out the beauty in those he affected. Then Finn pass away! June\u2019s accountant parents are buried in tax returns, and her elder sister Greta, with whom she used to be close now treats her viciously. I treasured how young June and her Uncle Finn's lover Toby develop an undisclosed bond, they recreated themselves and memories of Uncle Finn through their connection, Toby who likewise is deeply grieving Finn's death, - \"He was both our first loves\" and that he was because Finn...\"was so beautiful (himself) and patient and so clever and talented.\" Together, maybe they can find a way out of their heartache through an unforeseen bond. To complicate matters, June's mother, jealous of her brother Finn's attachment to Toby, will have nothing to do with Toby, and blames him for Finn's death because Toby also has Aids! A few paragraphs / quotes \u2192 I loved \"Thirteen is the right age for a portrait?\" \"Of course it is,\" he said, turning his squinted eye on me. \"It's the moment right before you slip away into the rest of your life\" \"Other than the green tie at his waist, the only color Finn had was in the little splotches of paint all over his white smock. The colors of me and Greta. I felt like grabbing the paintbrush out of his hand so I could color him in, paint him back to his old self.\" \"But stillness. The best kind of stillness. That's how I remember that night. That's how I always want to remember it\" \"It seemed like life was a sort of narrowing tunnel. Right when you were born, the tunnel was huge. You could be anything. Then, like, the absolute second after you were born, the tunnel narrowed down to about half that size.\" Epilogue! \u2192 Ronald Reagan Why my rating?\u2192 Don\u2019t be foolish read the book!!!! Will I read it again?\u2192 OH YES My feelings while reading this: \u2192 BEAUTIFULLY written - often times I cried out-loud through parts...so very poignant, affectionate, and factual To the Author The author of TELL THE WOLVES I'M HOME is vivid story line she written an intensely poignant without being syrupy or melodramatic read, the plot and characters are both quiet compelling, but the writing is what makes this book persuasively extraordinary, tell the Wolves I'm Home is a restrained yet complex tribute to sisterhood, family, and the many methods love can take! ...more", "Title": "Tell the Wolves I'm Home"},
