{"Comments": "\"Polka will never die!\" Book Twenty-five <+++>Dead Beat</+++> by <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> \"Hell's Bells\" count - 13 While I was on my long commute to work (<---B>not so bad, as it affords me more reading time</---B>), I wondered what the <---C>Harry Dresden</---C> from Storm Front would have made of the Harry Dresden from this book. I imagine he probably would have been scared. And to be honest, I don't think I would be able to blame him. There's necromancy afoot in Chicago, and as much as he doesn't want to be, Harry is in the middle of all of it. He's been charged by on Book Twenty-five <+++>Dead Beat</+++> by Jim Butcher \"Hell's Bells\" count - 13 While I was on my long commute to work (not so bad,<---M> as it affords me more reading time)</---M>, I wondered what the Harry Dresden from Storm Front would have made of the Harry Dresden from this book. I imagine he probably would have been scared. And to be honest, I don't think I would be able to blame him. There's necromancy afoot in Chicago, and as much as he doesn't want to be, Harry is in the middle of all of it. He's been charged by one of the most dangerous vampires in the world, Mavra of the Black Court, to find the missing volume of a series written by one of the most notorious necromancers in human history. When the necromancer Kemmler was alive, it took nearly the entire fighting force of the White Council of Wizards to stop him. Now his disciples are all hunting for the book, trying to be the first one to kill everyone in Chicago and become a god.<---F> It's a mission he can't refuse</---F>. If he should do so, Mavra has evidence in her possession that would destroy the career of one of the people closest to Harry - Lt. Karrin Murphy of the Chicago Police Department. In the previous book, Murphy helped Harry take out a nest of Black Court vampires, killing several humans who had been enthralled to the vamps. These Renfields were human only by technicality, but a photograph of Murphy blowing one's head off would still be damning evidence. Should Harry not do what Mavra wants, the pictures would be released, and the one things that Murphy truly loves would be gone. The point of this book, broadly, is Harry discovering that past actions still have present consequences, and that the choices he has to make are not always good ones. While Harry does save the day, he does so at a cost. Harry has become legitimately scary by this book. His friends and his allies aren't sure about him anymore, either his motives or his sanity. The people who have stood steadfastly by him now find themselves afraid of him, and what he might do. And for good reason, really. Harry's been through a lot in the last few books. He's lost the woman he loves to the Red Court vampires, he very nearly lost his hand fighting Mavra and he's now absolutely terrified of using fire magic as a result. On top of all that, he's discovered that being someone's brother doesn't automatically mean you get to understand them. Or like them. Or be able to live with them. So yeah, Harry's had it rough. With most humans, it's hard to see change from the inside, and I'm sure Harry doesn't think he's changed all that much. He knows he's gotten a little angrier, maybe a little more solitary, but from his point of view it's a logical progression. For people who aren't with him all the time - Billy the Werewolf, Mac the World's Best Tavern Owner, for example, the changes are drastic. And truly frightening. Harry's still a good guy, don't worry about that. He's just not a nice guy. This book is awash in general awesomeness, and introduces a lot of good new characters, both on the good and bad sides. My favorite is Waldo Butters, the Medical Examiner for the Chicago PD. He goes from being a slightly quirky ME who kind of believes in the weird and unusual (he spent 90 days under psychiatric evaluation when he refused to classify vampire remains as human). By the end of the book, he becomes positively heroic, and is a very good avatar for The Reader. We all like to believe that we would take the world of the supernatural, if it existed, in stride, but we probably would have reacted just like Butters did when he first saw things he was not prepared for - denial, disbelief and then abject terror. He comes around, though, as I'm sure all of us would. We also get to meet a few of the remaining Wardens of the White Council. The war has gone very hard on their numbers, and there are very, very few available to fight a group of mad necromancers in Chicago. The Red Court has dealt them such heavy blows that it's not unreasonable to think that there's a mole in the White Council somewhere. Who it is, though, will have to wait for another book. Their numbers have been slashed, and they need every able-bodied magic user they can get. The deal they offer Harry for their assistance is a surprising one, but makes perfect sense. And it will play heavily into the books that follow. There's also one genuine \"Holy Shit\" moment in this book. I won't tell you what it is, because that would just spoil the whole thing. All I can say is that it's at the end of chapter 38. You can't miss it. From here on out, this is going to be a very different series. Bigger, darker, as if that were possible, building on the foundation of the previous books to make something far more elaborate and interesting. I can't wait to see what it ends up being. ---------------------------------------- \"Polka will never die!\" - Waldo Butters, Dead Beat ---------------------------------------- ...more Harry Dresden fans, do you know you can get special Dresden character tea blends like this Butters one ?? Just food, er, drink for thought. Wonder what he tastes like. Corpses?? I'm 100% in love with the audiobooks for this series. James Marsters gets better and better with each book, and I'm addicted to listening to him narrate. His character vocal differentiation is improving with each story, and his inflections are spot on. He is amazing, really amazing. In terms of plot, this one was pretty fr Harry Dresden fans, do you know you can get special Dresden character tea blends like this Butters one ?? Just food, er, drink for thought. Wonder what he tastes like. Corpses?? I'm 100% in love with the audiobooks for this series. James Marsters gets better and better with each book, and I'm addicted to listening to him narrate. His character vocal differentiation is improving with each story, and his inflections are spot on. He is amazing, really amazing. In terms of plot, this one was pretty freaking convoluted. There were dozens of bad guys and insurmountable odds, but Jim Butcher pulled it off in the end. It wasn't my favorite of the series thus far, but I had an excellent time listening. The storyline was unlike any that I've heard before, and it was somewhat brilliant in it's level of complexity. Bring on more Harry Dresden and more polka, please! ...more This had one of the most creative and fun uses of magic I've ever seen without creating an entirely original magic system! Also some serious character development and story progression!! You rock, Jim Butcher! This seventh book in the Dresden Files series, took me on a roller coaster ride tread by many of the fans, yet managed to make the experience nearly pristine and virginal. The book was at first a slow starter, then became a precocious child, then became an overachiever, then, a late bloomer. The entire novel was the work of a workaholic, of that I'm sure. The series follow a formula only in the broadest sense of the word. I wish to tell Jim Butcher to ditch his cliffhangers. I mean, by that, hi This seventh book in the Dresden Files series, took me on a roller coaster ride tread by many of the fans, yet managed to make the experience nearly pristine and virginal. The book was at first a slow starter, then became a precocious child, then became an overachiever, then, a late bloomer. The entire novel was the work of a workaholic, of that I'm sure. The series follow a formula only in the broadest sense of the word. I wish to tell Jim Butcher to ditch his cliffhangers. I mean, by that, his tendency to put Dresden in a dead end and have him rescued by a providential arrival - here, once, by a Deus Ex Mafia. Not all such rescues are humdrum, though. When the hero is saved by Butters, it made for inspired writing. But I leave the benefit of the doubt to the author, who knows about his audience, more than I do, and knows on which side his bread is buttered. Dead Beat is startlingly different in raw ideas, from its precedents. The vampires set the ball rolling, and referee the majority of the death counts, but they are mostly off screen. The one vampire in the book, Thomas, is there, is interesting, but does not help much. There are new and newish characters to make up for that. The Book Of Kemmler is a book within a book. The entire show runs round it. And one of the characters is fiction within a fiction. The best thing about book seven is that the layers that form part of the novel are available at first reading. I took great enjoyment from it. Dresden's hero complex is dealt with, with care, restraint, artfulness, and thoughtfulness. The plot coupons and twists in the book are well timed. I think the reveals, which are different and self sufficient (not depending on previous ones), enhance the craftsmanship of the author, who, in retrospect, I'm seeing growing alongside his main character. All of the annoying twinges of previous books have been erased, at least in my book. If this book were a brochure, I'd buy everything in it. It's that good. ...more The chaotic events in his life may have Harry Dresden feeling Dead Beat ...but his books have never been more energized! As an accountant, when I have a bad day at work, it often means I spent hours poring through various mind-numbingly dull spreadsheets trying to rectify a discrepancy. Now here's Harry Dresden's version of a bad day at work. One of his most dangerous enemies has pictures that could destroy the life of Harry's closest friend and ally. In order to stop the evil vampire-sorceress Ma The chaotic events in his life may have Harry Dresden feeling Dead Beat ...but his books have never been more energized! As an accountant, when I have a bad day at work, it often means I spent hours poring through various mind-numbingly dull spreadsheets trying to rectify a discrepancy. Now here's Harry Dresden's version of a bad day at work. One of his most dangerous enemies has pictures that could destroy the life of Harry's closest friend and ally. In order to stop the evil vampire-sorceress Mavra from releasing the incriminating photos of Special Investigations director Karrin Murphy, Harry must bring Mavra something called \"The Word of Kemmler\". Harry has no idea what The Word of Kemmler looks like or even what it is, all he knows is that he's not the only one trying to find it. Three dark wizards who are more powerful than anything Harry has ever faced before are also seeking The Word and are more than willing to kill Harry if he gets in their way (in fact, at least two of them welcome the opportunity)! Add to that an ongoing war between the wizards' council and the vampire court, and a fallen angel trying desperately to ensnare Harry in her web, and you have the makings of a really bad day at work! Y'know, suddenly being an accountant doesn't seem so bad... I was very exciting going into this book, as I knew that \"Dead Beat\" is where the larger story that was threaded throughout the earlier Dresden Files books really begins to unfold. The first novels of the Dresden Files were more stand-alone stories, with larger themes being introduced as the series went on, but \"Dead Beat\" is where many of those subplots begin to come together to make Harry's adventures one continuing epic drama! The war with the vampiric Red Court that began in \"Ghost Peril\", the debt Harry owes the Faerie courts from \"Summer Knight\", the bond with fallen angel Lasciel from \"Death Masks\", and the revelation of who Thomas is to Harry from \"Blood Rites\", all these events play a major role in this book, and it was a lot of fun to watch something that began as simple supernatural mysteries evolve into something so much more complex. If you read any of the previous six books in the Harry Dresden series, you already know that you can count on plenty of excitement and humor, but this time around it's become apparent that Jim Butcher is truly growing as a writer. His fight sequences are now so beautifully detailed, they rival even R.A. Salvatore's! Also, Butcher really ups the ante in terms of action and suspense. The battles are larger in scale than ever before, including one involving zombies dueling with specters, and the grand finale features what may just be Harry's most epic moment to date. Also, the odds have never been more stacked up against Harry before, which made for a gripping tale. In addition, I noticed even Butcher's prose has matured. One sequence in which Harry describes seeing through the point of view of both predator and prey is so masterfully written, it's actually poetic. And then there's the twist...many an author has stumbled and fallen trying to yank the rug out from under the reader, but Butcher manages to come up with a moment that not only shocked me, but made complete sense when I thought back on previous events. Yes, almost everything I love about the Dresden books was bigger and better... almost ... As much as I enjoyed reading \"Dead Beat\", I found myself rolling my eyes far too many times to give the book a perfect score. For one thing, there's Butcher's annoying habit of turning Harry Dresden into... You know who I'm talking about... that guy ! The one who got a laugh once doing a weak Austin Powers impression and now feels the need to incorporate it into just about every conversation! In all fairness, a lot of Harry's witticisms work, but Butcher has a tendency to overdo it to the point where Harry stops being funny and starts getting annoying, and this book was no exception. Even Butcher himself seems to acknowledge this when he has another character tell Harry, \"You're not nearly as funny as you think you are.\" I'm not trying to bash Butcher, as I really do think most of his humor works, but it does get tiresome when Harry has to be a complete wise-ass in every single situation (even in ones where he should be focusing on trying to save lives)! I had some other minor grievances with this particular story. One was that Karrin Murphy was almost completely absent this time around. Murphy has always been one of my favorite characters, and her chemistry with Dresden worked brilliantly in previous novels, so I thought it was a rather odd choice by Butcher to leave her out of the book...especially considering Harry's whole reason for originally entering into the search for The Word is to protect Murphy's career! With so many things other things going on, Mavra's blackmailing of Murphy becomes little more than an afterthought, and I can't help but feel that this plot point would have been far more effective had Murphy and Mavra actually been in the book for more than a few pages. Instead of Dresden teaming up with Murphy, we get a \"bromance\" between him and medical examiner Butters, but Butters isn't nearly as charismatic as Murphy. Harry's half-brother Thomas is along for the ride as well, but as he doesn't really have much to do with the story and even disappears without a mention for several parts of the book, he doesn't really serve much more purpose than giving Harry a chance to get out a few more quips. Another minor grievance was one too many James Bond moments, where the villains have Harry completely at their mercy but inexplicably give him more than enough time to escape instead of just killing him when they get the chance... Still, even with its minor faults, I would recommend this book to just about anyone who enjoys urban fantasy. If Butcher continues to grow as a writer, I see a lot of five-star reviews for the Dresden books in the future! One last thing, I have a question I want to ask anyone who's read this book...if you haven't read \"Dead Beat\"yet, I urge you not to click on the spoiler, as it could potentially ruin the big twist for you... (view spoiler) [I was convinced that Shiela would actually turn out to be Cowl's assistant Kumori...did anyone else have this same theory, or am I really the only one who fell for this particular red herring?!?\" (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Did I say the last book was the best installment yet? I WAS OBVIOUSLY KIDDING. No, THIS books is the best installment yet. What is it about this series that just keeps getting better and better and better and better? I just adore how the stakes keep getting higher, and how our dear wizard Harry is always overcome with hurdles that even I am biting my nails in suspense, unsure if he'll even come out of it in one piece. And when he does overcome them in unconventional means, I can't help but sigh Did I say the last book was the best installment yet? I WAS OBVIOUSLY KIDDING. No, THIS books is the best installment yet. What is it about this series that just keeps getting better and better and better and better? I just adore how the stakes keep getting higher, and how our dear wizard Harry is always overcome with hurdles that even I am biting my nails in suspense, unsure if he'll even come out of it in one piece. And when he does overcome them in unconventional means, I can't help but sigh in relief and go, \"Damn it, Harry! Stop trying to give me a heart attack!\" I absolutely love this series. There's so much to love about it - from the characters to the little story arcs in every installment, and to the even bigger story that's happening behind the scenes if you take a look at all of the books' stories as a whole. I can't wait for book 8!!! :D ...more 10/30/13: The one with lots of necromancers. Also the one where the series really solidly shifts into higher gear, in my opinion. 8/25/11: I noticed something about this character last night that I think speaks well of Butcher as a writer: he's managed to write a somewhat sexist character but not sexist books. It's not just because the character admits to being somewhat sexist, but because it's just the main character who has those views. The narrative and development of the supporting characters 10/30/13: The one with lots of necromancers. Also the one where the series really solidly shifts into higher gear, in my opinion. 8/25/11: I noticed something about this character last night that I think speaks well of Butcher as a writer: he's managed to write a somewhat sexist character but not sexist books. It's not just because the character admits to being somewhat sexist, but because it's just the main character who has those views. The narrative and development of the supporting characters is actually perfectly decent. It's a fine line, but it's there, and instead of being insulting, it just makes the character deeper. As an example, I read a review here complaining about how the author always comments on women's boobs. But the author never does that - the character does. The dude clearly has a thing about boobs. And that's not the end of the world, because even the characters who look good in tight shirts are rarely depicted as two-dimensional bimbos. Hell, even the bimbos are fairly three dimensional. It's not that uncommon to find books where the entire thing treats women as window dressing, or where everyone (except maybe the bad guys) are wonderfully gender enlightened, but it's kind of interesting to find something more in the middle. It feels real. Thankfully, I find Dresden to be an interesting enough character that his somewhat obnoxious, teenage boy traits don't bother me. I could imagine being friends with him in real life and making fun of him for being a chivalrous ass sometimes, but still liking him. And like I said at the beginning, I think this speaks well of the author. ...more I was not sure whether with book deserves 3 or 4 stars until I was introduced to Butters and Sue. Thanks to Sue, the book has the most epic ending of all Dresden Files books so far; the rating jumped to 5 stars - the highest of all Dresden Files book for me. It starts innocently enough. Mavra, a vampire from Black Court (think Dracula on steroids) who happened to be one of the most powerful Dresden's enemies made an offer to the only official wizard which cannot be refused: find the last book of I was not sure whether with book deserves 3 or 4 stars until I was introduced to Butters and Sue. Thanks to Sue, the book has the most epic ending of all Dresden Files books so far; the rating jumped to 5 stars - the highest of all Dresden Files book for me. It starts innocently enough. Mavra, a vampire from Black Court (think Dracula on steroids) who happened to be one of the most powerful Dresden's enemies made an offer to the only official wizard which cannot be refused: find the last book of the most powerful and crazy necromancer in the history of humanity, or Lt. Murphy would be exposed as a killer (with fabricated evidence). Well, what complicates matter is the fact that the surviving apprentices of the mentioned necromancer are after the book as well. Each one of them, taken individually is much stronger than Dresden who in addition to all the troubles above is haunted by his own demons from material and spiritual planes. Thus the plan is: get the book, give it to Mavra, and avoid getting killed by people who would not think twice about destroying anything and everyone who stands in their way. Sounds simple enough, right? Oh yeah, I almost forgot to mention: polka will never die!!! ...more I have two GR friends who have said that this series gets better and better with each book. I believe that to be true because these books really do get better, probably because I already love the characters. Harry is a great character. He is constantly evolving and I like that I'm learning something new about him with each new book. The new characters are also just as fascinating, as well as the returning ones. I like all the fun twists that keep the story moving, often in unexpected ways. The w I have two GR friends who have said that this series gets better and better with each book. I believe that to be true because these books really do get better, probably because I already love the characters. Harry is a great character. He is constantly evolving and I like that I'm learning something new about him with each new book. The new characters are also just as fascinating, as well as the returning ones. I like all the fun twists that keep the story moving, often in unexpected ways. The world building is also a plus because the author takes his time and gives the reader just what they need to know. And of course, I have to mention the narrator. He does a fantastic job. So 5 stars for this one. ...more This was without a doubt my favorite of the Dresden files. It had everything - especially zombies, and lots and lots of them! This book made me really think about what I like about the Dresden files. The author develops multiple story lines and then weaves them together plausibly - at least as plausible as zombies in present day Chicago. The quest for the book of Kemmlar places Harry in a very bad position. Mavra is threatening to get Murphy arrested. Powerful necromancers are seeking to upend th This was without a doubt my favorite of the Dresden files. It had everything - especially zombies, and lots and lots of them! This book made me really think about what I like about the Dresden files. The author develops multiple story lines and then weaves them together plausibly - at least as plausible as zombies in present day Chicago. The quest for the book of Kemmlar places Harry in a very bad position. Mavra is threatening to get Murphy arrested. Powerful necromancers are seeking to upend the fabric of the universe. And Lasciel begins to exert her influence over Harry. It's about at that point that the Wardens show up. The main knock on the story is that Harry is almost too good. The stakes are raised higher than ever, yet Harry keeps pulling through. Great stuff though. I loved the book. Downgraded to four stars after some reflection. ...more Pretty much on-par with Blood Rites. I had a good time, though definitely felt that it was my second Dresden book in a row. I usually try to break them up because I end up feeling trapped if I read a whole series all together (I'm crazy I know), but even moreso with Harry's constant descriptions of his foibles as if he needs to describe them all to knew people in the 7th installment of the series! Other than that, I had lots of fun and a good break from vampires, which I've felt have been a bit o Pretty much on-par with Blood Rites. I had a good time, though definitely felt that it was my second Dresden book in a row. I usually try to break them up because I end up feeling trapped if I read a whole series all together (I'm crazy I know), but even moreso with Harry's constant descriptions of his foibles as if he needs to describe them all to knew people in the 7th installment of the series! Other than that, I had lots of fun and a good break from vampires, which I've felt have been a bit overused though they still make up a good part of the arc of this book. Funny thing about something that happened later in the book - (view spoiler) [ It was a great addition to have Harry riding a zombie dinosaur (Sue) and that was way better than I ever imagined it could be. After finishing the book, I noticed my son had brought home a book from school, \"A Dinosaur Named Sue.\" That was awesome and some good bonding time talking about my silly fiction book. My son's excited to read about zombie dinosaur's eating zombies when he gets old enough! (hide spoiler) ] There's not much more to say at this point in the series if everything's about the same. Still good and these last two have been an improvement since the first 3 or 4 books. 4 out of 5 Stars (highly recommended) ...more Executive Summary: One of my favorite books in the series. It might possibly have the most memorable sequence of all 14 books thus far. Audio book: James Marsters continues to be excellent as the reader for the audio book. Of particular note, I really enjoy his voices for Butters and Ramirez. Full Review So what a long way we've come. Wizards, Werewolves, Vampires, Fae. What's left? Why Zombies of course.. One of Harry's enemies is back in town and blackmailing him to find something called the Wor Executive Summary: One of my favorite books in the series. It might possibly have the most memorable sequence of all 14 books thus far. Audio book: James Marsters continues to be excellent as the reader for the audio book. Of particular note, I really enjoy his voices for Butters and Ramirez. Full Review So what a long way we've come. Wizards, Werewolves, Vampires, Fae. What's left? Why Zombies of course.. One of Harry's enemies is back in town and blackmailing him to find something called the Word of Kemmler. Harry soon learns that Kemmler was a Necromancer. So what is Harry to do when the undead are chasing him through the streets of Chicago? Just one of the most awesome things in the entire series! Mr. Butcher does an excellent job of writing an entertaining stand alone story, while managing to develop important plot points for the overall story he's telling with the series so far. We are yet again introduced to some important new characters. And while this book lacks the big revelations of the last book, it makes up for it with an extra dose of fun, as well as adding some layers of complexity to the series. Books like this are why it's one of my favorite series. 4.5 stars, rounded down because I'm stingy with my 5 star ratings. ...more The thing I'm really loving about this series is how Butcher manages to produce something new with each successive book while at the same time adding these threads of lore and story that carry over with each new book. While the first several books still felt somewhat episodic, by this book, all those little threads have now cumulated to evolve such a cohesion with the previous books that the depth of plot and character and world building make for some very satisfying and rewarding reading. And I' The thing I'm really loving about this series is how Butcher manages to produce something new with each successive book while at the same time adding these threads of lore and story that carry over with each new book. While the first several books still felt somewhat episodic, by this book, all those little threads have now cumulated to evolve such a cohesion with the previous books that the depth of plot and character and world building make for some very satisfying and rewarding reading. And I'd just be repeating myself to continue praising James Marsters as the Audio narrator. I just can't imagine any other voice for this series - Dresden and Marsters are hand in glove. This episode it's Halloween and Harry battles Megalomaniac Necromancers intent on dominating the universe - plus zombies, plus ghouls, plus a few other nasties. Some things just don't go away when you bury them. A fact that becomes all too apparent to Harry as he struggles to manage the lust and temptation for increased power as he goes up against some of the most powerful wizards he has ever had to face. Of course, Harry is not alone in his struggle. He has Mouse , his trusty Foo dog who would probably be more aptly named Moose. He also has Butters, whose repertoire of undead combating abilities mostly consists of melting away into the background in a quivering mess(unlike Mouse, Butters is aptly named), to his more formidable polka playing abilities - Hey, don't knock it till you've tried it - Polka will never die. 4 stars ...more 4.5 Its the best book in the series so far (and that extra half star is for Butters and Sue)!! With Halloween just days away, Harry finds himself blackmailed by Marva into finding \u201cWord of Kemmler\u201d. But Harry even doesn\u2019t know what \u201cWord of Kemmler\u201d is and what it can do or where to find it. If thats not enough three more wizards/necromancers who are powerful than Harry wants \u201cWord of Kemmler\u201d for themselves. And what follows next is endless action and fun. This book was one hell of a ride right fr 4.5 Its the best book in the series so far (and that extra half star is for Butters and Sue)!! With Halloween just days away, Harry finds himself blackmailed by Marva into finding \u201cWord of Kemmler\u201d. But Harry even doesn\u2019t know what \u201cWord of Kemmler\u201d is and what it can do or where to find it. If thats not enough three more wizards/necromancers who are powerful than Harry wants \u201cWord of Kemmler\u201d for themselves. And what follows next is endless action and fun. This book was one hell of a ride right from the start to the very end. We\u2019ve seen Harry tackling wizards, werewolves, ghosts, vampires and fallen angels; now we see him fighting zombies. With every book each Harry is growing more mature and powerful. But its his enemies who attacks him through his loved ones and Harry is a good man. He can\u2019t see people hurting on his behalf. While in the previous book he fought for his brother, in this he fights to save Karrin Murphy, his best friend. And we also get to know about the ongoing war between the White Council of Wizards and Red Court which gives us some surprises toward the end of the book. This series is getting just bigger, darker and more mysterious with each new addition to the series. ...more So, this audiobook was pretty epic. End review. No, but seriously there's Necromancers, a zombie t-rex, Harry gets a wizardly promotion, there's a weird love triangle going on, although I don't think anyone is actually getting any, Bob gets kidnapped, and then there's the whole Lasciel thing. I loved this installment to bits; there was action to the max, tons of future possibilities open up for this series, and I bow down to James Marsters' grasp of Dresden's character. Butters made for an aweso So, this audiobook was pretty epic. End review. No, but seriously there's Necromancers, a zombie t-rex, Harry gets a wizardly promotion, there's a weird love triangle going on, although I don't think anyone is actually getting any, Bob gets kidnapped, and then there's the whole Lasciel thing. I loved this installment to bits; there was action to the max, tons of future possibilities open up for this series, and I bow down to James Marsters' grasp of Dresden's character. Butters made for an awesome sidekick, and Mouse was something else too. Highly recommended! 4.5 Stars ...more POLKA WILL NEVER DIE!!!!! I love this series. 9.5/10 Awesome, the whole thing was awesome! It\u2019s never going to win any literature awards or be viewed as high brow but on the entertainment scale this is as near to 10 as I\u2019m going to give. The series as a whole has fully developed for me and it now has the feel of joining friends for a beer at the pub and passing tales between one another. The narration is the usual top notch, easy banter style which flows from page to page and picks up the plot and goes from 0-60 before you could put on all y 9.5/10 Awesome, the whole thing was awesome! It\u2019s never going to win any literature awards or be viewed as high brow but on the entertainment scale this is as near to 10 as I\u2019m going to give. The series as a whole has fully developed for me and it now has the feel of joining friends for a beer at the pub and passing tales between one another. The narration is the usual top notch, easy banter style which flows from page to page and picks up the plot and goes from 0-60 before you could put on all your polka gear. For me though this book was pushed from a 8-8.5 out of 10 to 9.5 by two factors. First, the loveable Butters. It was hard for me not to picture some hybrid of South Park Butters and David Cross as this character but that somehow aided things and developed this character in my mind (my slight obsession with Tobias Funke means anything that resembles David Cross is on to a winner). He was a nice foil for Harry with his cowardice and views from a normal/non-wizard perspective adding to the story and then there is the whole Polka thing. This was humorous throughout but then, would you believe it, became an integral part of the plot almost like that Butcher fella knew what he was doing all along. Add in all that and the fact that Mouse was like his guardian angel then you couldn\u2019t help but like all the passages he was in. Second, Sue. I\u2019m going to say absolutely nothing more on the subject other than that was one hell of a way to bring down the curtain on a fine novel. There isn\u2019t really a need to summarise this one, if you have read the series up to this point and enjoyed it then there is plenty of reason to continue as this was the best novel so far in the series for me. If you\u2019re borderline and thinking the series is stale and repetitive, just give this one a go and see what happens from there. If you\u2019ve never read the series, try it but don\u2019t start here as there are plenty of spoilers for previous novels. ...more About halfway through this book, I was finding myself sneaking in chapters when I was supposed to be doing other things. It was very, very bad of me, I know. I've commented on several aspects of the series in reviews of the other books. One of the things I like is that each story is complete, but each builds on the last. This is the first book in the series that really depended on a knowledge of what had gone on before. I do think Butcher does an excellent job of tickling the memory about refere About halfway through this book, I was finding myself sneaking in chapters when I was supposed to be doing other things. It was very, very bad of me, I know. I've commented on several aspects of the series in reviews of the other books. One of the things I like is that each story is complete, but each builds on the last. This is the first book in the series that really depended on a knowledge of what had gone on before. I do think Butcher does an excellent job of tickling the memory about references to past books in just a few sentences. He doesn't go on and on and on about who this person was or what that incident was. As a result, Dead Beat and all the Dresden files book move quickly. The series is really more like a detective thriller series than an urban fantasy series, despite the supernatural beings and magic. While I can't give any one book five stars, I would give the top rating to the series as a whole. This is a series that doesn't seem to be running out of steam (or fresh ideas). It just keeps getting better. ...more I loved this book. It has everything I love and lacks exactly the thing I dislike in this series (Murphy and her self-righteous attitude). I still remember how she ruined the second book for me. It took me quite a while to start reading Dead Beat because of the blurb. Since the starting point is a blackmail connected to Murphy I expected her to play a greater role here. Fortunately that's not the case. Murphy lovers will be disappointed to find that she appears only in two scenes, one in the beg I loved this book. It has everything I love and lacks exactly the thing I dislike in this series (Murphy and her self-righteous attitude). I still remember how she ruined the second book for me. It took me quite a while to start reading Dead Beat because of the blurb. Since the starting point is a blackmail connected to Murphy I expected her to play a greater role here. Fortunately that's not the case. Murphy lovers will be disappointed to find that she appears only in two scenes, one in the beginning and the other in the end. As for the the rest of the book, it is perfect. The antagonists are strong, the mystery, the plot and its pace are perfect. I didn't experience a single moment of boredom. Even the side characters' growth (Butters, for instance) is believable. Thomas is there too. What's not to like? ...more First read: March, 2010. Re-read: May-June, 2013 & liked it even more the second time, upping the rating from 4 to 5 stars. \u201cListen to me,\u201d I snarled. \u201cWe are not going to die.\u201d Butters stared at me, pale, his eyes terrified. \u201cWe\u2019re not?\u201d \u201cNo. And do you know why?\u201d He shook his head. \u201cBecause Thomas is too pretty to die. And because I\u2019m too stubborn to die. \u2026And most of all because tomorrow is Oktoberfest, Butters, and polka will never die.\u201d He blinked. \u201cPolka will never die!\u201d I shouted at him. \u201cSay First read: March, 2010. Re-read: May-June, 2013 & liked it even more the second time, upping the rating from 4 to 5 stars. \u201cListen to me,\u201d I snarled. \u201cWe are not going to die.\u201d Butters stared at me, pale, his eyes terrified. \u201cWe\u2019re not?\u201d \u201cNo. And do you know why?\u201d He shook his head. \u201cBecause Thomas is too pretty to die. And because I\u2019m too stubborn to die. \u2026And most of all because tomorrow is Oktoberfest, Butters, and polka will never die.\u201d He blinked. \u201cPolka will never die!\u201d I shouted at him. \u201cSay it!\u201d (pg. 212) Passages like that are just one reason why I\u2019m addicted to the Harry Dresden books. Jim Butcher has a wonderful sense of humour; and so far he always leaves me wanting more. I don\u2019t want to include too many detailed spoilers in this review, because part of the fun of reading a Harry Dresden novel is wondering where things are going to go next. This one is another winner. Inventive, fun, and at times harrowing. Lots of new developments and further complications. And there\u2019s a lot of heart, too; especially now that Harry has more allies than he formerly did. The Lasciel twists have me a bit worried for Harry, although there seemed to be more hope at the end of the novel than previous events had me thinking might be possible earlier on. The zombie T-rex was insane, brilliant, and hilarious. I usually don\u2019t even like dinosaurs and zombies, but I ate this up. (Pun intended.) Butters has become a really likable and fun character; he\u2019s a great friend for Harry. Having someone around who can sew Harry up is also useful. (Although it turns out there is a reason Harry can take such a beating and not just survive but bounce back. I still wish he didn\u2019t get knocked around quite so much.) As usual, I enjoyed seeing Thomas; he continues to grow as a complex character. Mouse is turning into quite the wonder dog! I liked the new characters Luccio and Ramirez a lot. There were also some very interesting developments involving Warden Morgan. One complaint: Murphy sleeping with Kincaid (!!!) is a dozen kinds of wrong! ...more POLKA WILL NEVER DIE! That alone made this an awesome read for me. (An inside joke for those who have already read the book, but then again most of my reviews are meant for post-read discussion anyway.) The Dresden Files has always had a great cast of supporting characters, and Dead Beat is no exception. I like how they switch around between novels too. For example, not a lot of Murphy and Michael in this book, but we get to explore Butters and Thomas more deeply. We see (yet again) the brilliance POLKA WILL NEVER DIE! That alone made this an awesome read for me. (An inside joke for those who have already read the book, but then again most of my reviews are meant for post-read discussion anyway.) The Dresden Files has always had a great cast of supporting characters, and Dead Beat is no exception. I like how they switch around between novels too. For example, not a lot of Murphy and Michael in this book, but we get to explore Butters and Thomas more deeply. We see (yet again) the brilliance of Harry's dry humour, and perhaps the best use of hyperbole? Yes, yes I think so. Dead Beat felt a little like \"the conversation book\" to me. Harry seemed to jump from one conversation to the next, with lengthy bits of dialogue with various secondary characters. Luckily, I think Jim Butcher is a master a dialogue, and James Marster is an excellent narrator, so a win on all accounts. Last thing\u2014I'm starting to see a theme present in each of the Dresden books. (Keep in mind this is just my own theory). The last one was family, and this one was fear . We'll see if I can continue these one-word summations with the rest of the series. ...more I could mention what every other review has mentioned as a reason to read this book. I could point out that Harry is an everyman, and he is not really special in the way that other female paranormal characters tend to be (he's not the most powerful whatever, he's not the only something). I could point out his reactions are full of everyday common sense. I could point out that Butcher makes excellent use of pop culture. I could point out that Butcher's excellent charaziation extends to dog and ca I could mention what every other review has mentioned as a reason to read this book. I could point out that Harry is an everyman, and he is not really special in the way that other female paranormal characters tend to be (he's not the most powerful whatever, he's not the only something). I could point out his reactions are full of everyday common sense. I could point out that Butcher makes excellent use of pop culture. I could point out that Butcher's excellent charaziation extends to dog and cats. But forget all that serious stuff. You need to read this book for the following reasons: 1. Dinosaur Sue 2. \"Polka will never die\" is a great battle cry. 3. Polkenstein. 4. Dinosaur Sue 5. Who doesn't like Ramirez? 6. Vader Syndrome 7. The Hobbit Or There and Back Again as summoning tool. 8. A vampire making pancakes. 9. Nice commentary on life and death. 10. And Dinosaur Sue (who really does deserve the three mentions) ...more If you've seen my reviews of previous Dresden Files novels, you pretty much already know what I think of this book. I'm worried I might start boring people because my adores and complaints don't change from novel to novel, and your eyes will start glazing over as I launch yet again into the usual blah blah awesome world-building blah blah laugh-out-loud snarky humor blah but DAMN could he stop being sexist and calling it chivalrous blah blah oh and please , people are not that skeptical when it c If you've seen my reviews of previous Dresden Files novels, you pretty much already know what I think of this book. I'm worried I might start boring people because my adores and complaints don't change from novel to novel, and your eyes will start glazing over as I launch yet again into the usual blah blah awesome world-building blah blah laugh-out-loud snarky humor blah but DAMN could he stop being sexist and calling it chivalrous blah blah oh and please , people are not that skeptical when it comes to the supernatural blah blah AWESOME FIGHT SCENE blah oh, Harry, you drive me crazy but you're always worth it in the end. So I'll just add that this is a series you really should try to read in order, because Butcher is terrific when it comes to past events coming back to haunt us in the present. This becomes clearer with every new Dresden book. Even well-intentioned actions and words are not without consequence, something I wish people in general and writers in particular would remember more often. Also, even if you've read these books in print, do check out the audio editions, because James Marsters narrates and nobody is gay or straight enough to be able to resist his charms. (Okay, I admit I'm still waiting for confirmation from lesbians on this. I do already know straight guys who fan-girl all over his voice.) Also also, \"Butters\" is apparently the surname of choice when it comes to making sure that everyone will know, before he says a word or does a thing, that a male character is not even a tiny bit \"manly.\" First Southpark; now the Dresden Files. Which kind of makes me feel bad for all the real-world men surnamed Butters, but I also kind of think it's funny. Which I'm sure makes me bad. Tl;dr: Read these books. ...more Can you hear that? It's the sound of Jim Butcher swinging and sending one out of the park. I have to wonder if the author can really keep upping his game this way? Dead beat was anything but a dead beat, and was packed with everything you could hope for and more. There were Zombies, Dinosaurs, Vampires, Faeries, Necromancers, Demons, Goblins, Damsels in distress, Ghouls and even cats & dogs. And as expected - ROCK/Harry Dresden/HARD PLACE. Dresden is getting more and more fleshed out as a chara Can you hear that? It's the sound of Jim Butcher swinging and sending one out of the park. I have to wonder if the author can really keep upping his game this way? Dead beat was anything but a dead beat, and was packed with everything you could hope for and more. There were Zombies, Dinosaurs, Vampires, Faeries, Necromancers, Demons, Goblins, Damsels in distress, Ghouls and even cats & dogs. And as expected - ROCK/Harry Dresden/HARD PLACE. Dresden is getting more and more fleshed out as a character, with the grey areas he has to navigate getting even grayer and murkier, but how long can he stay true to what he believes is right? I'm really rooting for some kind of holiday for the guy, as the hits just keep on coming faster and faster - not to mention the turbulence of his love life. I hope there is a silver lining somewhere, but as Harry likes to say: \"Every silver lining has a dark cloud.\" ...more 5 Stars Dead Beat, number 7 in the Harry Dresden series is the best so far. This is a surprise to me as I loved the last book Blood Rites. I have a love for pretty much everything Urban Fantasy, but Dresden is often too PG nature for me. Harry is simply too good of a guy bordering on goodie goodie. I have really enjoyed the series up to this point but want it to be a bit darker, scarier, and less clean. For a while it was only Butcher's writing and Dresden himself that kept me even the slightest 5 Stars Dead Beat, number 7 in the Harry Dresden series is the best so far. This is a surprise to me as I loved the last book Blood Rites. I have a love for pretty much everything Urban Fantasy, but Dresden is often too PG nature for me. Harry is simply too good of a guy bordering on goodie goodie. I have really enjoyed the series up to this point but want it to be a bit darker, scarier, and less clean. For a while it was only Butcher's writing and Dresden himself that kept me even the slightest bit interested in the Urban Fantasy genre. This book centers on necromancy and the undead. There are several major plot twists, series and game changers, and opened up secrets. These surprises are incredible and they are the best thing about the series to date. As with all of the Dresden Files it is the magic of Butcher's story telling that make these must reads. He makes each of them fast paced and action packed with very little down time. They all add back story to our hero wizard and develop the world even more. Butcher writes these books flavored with humor and wit and one liners. This was an easy read that I loved from the first page. Dead Beat is the darkest story to date and we now see a truly different Harry Dresden. He has come to accept his place among the White Council. He is OK with Murphy. He now feels right in his protection of his brother. Harry is a changed man, a bit more cynical and also scary. But he is better for it. I loved this book and series. ...more 4.5 stars ZOMG! :D Another great installment in the series. These books are gradually getting darker, which seems hard to imagine when you think that the first one started with a murder by ones heart exploding out of their chest in a black magic rite, but they are. Harry's getting a little fuzzy 'round the edges, and he's being pushed in directions he's been determined to never go out of necessity. Does that make him bad, or just human? I'm not sure, but I love him either way. AND! This book had 4.5 stars ZOMG! :D Another great installment in the series. These books are gradually getting darker, which seems hard to imagine when you think that the first one started with a murder by ones heart exploding out of their chest in a black magic rite, but they are. Harry's getting a little fuzzy 'round the edges, and he's being pushed in directions he's been determined to never go out of necessity. Does that make him bad, or just human? I'm not sure, but I love him either way. AND! This book had ZOMBIES. Yet again Butcher rocks my socks with his unique spin on been-there-done-that stuff. He gave me absolutely the best of both worlds with his zombies - relentless, killer, is-that-what-my-tibia-looks-like fucking zombies, but with a different purpose and focus. His take on necromancy and control was awesome. Loved it. LOVED IT. ...more \"Because Thomas is too pretty to die. And because I'm too stubborn to die. And most of all because tomorrow is Oktoberfest, Butters, and polka will never die.\" This must be my favourite Dresden book yet. The formula is the same. Action packed, as usual. The plot is convoluted to say the least, as Harry moved back and forth between encounters with known characters and new ones. There are a dozen villains (really, a lot of them) but the main antagonists of this book actually impressed me this time: \"Because Thomas is too pretty to die. And because I'm too stubborn to die. And most of all because tomorrow is Oktoberfest, Butters, and polka will never die.\" This must be my favourite Dresden book yet. The formula is the same. Action packed, as usual. The plot is convoluted to say the least, as Harry moved back and forth between encounters with known characters and new ones. There are a dozen villains (really, a lot of them) but the main antagonists of this book actually impressed me this time: scary, scary necromancers and their zombie minions. If you stuck to Harry Dresden until book six, do keep going! There is a moment near the end that screams \"this is going to be a different series from now on\". Just remember people, Polka will never die!! ...more I am quite worried about Harry his future. I hope he made the right decision... Can't wait to start the next! The one where it really starts to get good. Has several priceless scenes, especially in the last third, that had me re-reading this book. Best dinosaur scene ever.", "Title": "Dead Beat"},
