{"Comments": "Reading this book is a horrible mistake.<---F> It made me insane</---F>. Overall, I think this book has one humongous mistake. A very huge irredeemable mistake. We are fooled thinking that this book is about how insanity evolved. \"Do not judge the book by its title\", that is more aptly appropriate than the original quotation. We expect to read about insanity and maybe read what author has to say about it and about all its possible forms and appearances throughout time, of how it grows and instills itself to one Reading this book is a horrible mistake. It made me insane. Overall, I think this book has one humongous mistake. A very huge irredeemable mistake. We are fooled thinking that this book is about how insanity evolved. \"Do not judge the book by its title\", that is more aptly appropriate than the original quotation. We expect to read about insanity and maybe read what author has to say about it and about all its possible forms and appearances throughout time, of how it grows and instills itself to one, of what it does and what it is capable of becoming. This book has made a very unforgivable mistake... Instead of the \"<+++>Evolution of Insanity</+++>,\" this book should be correctly titled as \"The Evolution of Genius!\" I love it. I loved it the first time I read it and I know I will love it the next time I will read it. I love the complexity of the book. Some stories may be somewhat shallow,<---M> some are deeply profound</---M>, some are lamentable, some are funny, some are spicy and ironic, some are mundane, some are exceptional but most of all, every story is a jewel. This book is a veritable treasure box. I have never read such a powerful short story collection. This book transcends every genre I ever loved and known. It can be described closest as post-modern, but then there are elements of magical realism, of fantasy, of horror, of realism, of parodies and of excitingly innovative ideas. i cannot put this book in the shelf of fiction or non-fiction. I rather put copies of this in a pedestal behind the bookstore's window for all to see if I were a shop owner. This book is definitely beyond any classification. <---A>Haresh Daswani</---A> speaks of truth, and lies, and creatively made up half-truths and half-lies but most of all, it shows you how diverse the universe is. This book commits the totality of the cosmos with its myriad instances, its plenty characters, the multiple emotions that it shows and make us readers feel - the love, the terror, the hatred, the disgust, the outrageousness, and many more. I cannot help but surmise how can a writer this good have escaped me for years. I love weird books, strange literature that goes beyond normal mainstream and popular plots. I love innovation and postmodernism. Some writers I love are Jeanette Winterson, John Fowles, Haruki Murakami, Julian Barnes and now, I am a big fan of Haresh Daswani for sure. He can be ranked with this great writers because the scope of this book is exceptional and beyond comprehension. Before reading this, I must advise that the reader must be open-minded and wise enough, and prepare himself for anything. I admit there are some parts which I did not get immediately, there are parts which reveal themselves upon the first glance and there are even ones which are harder to decipher. But nevertheless, I will struggle to see all the secrets of this books. The author has many things to tell us and I would be a willing ear to all of it. This book may be as complicated as House of Leaves by Mark Danielewski but this one is more readable and enjoyable. A lot better! You will be totally mad and stupid if you miss the chance to read this. This is not the evolution of insanity as it states, rather it is the story of the evolution of a great writer's mind. The stories are representative of his skill as a storyteller, or a liar, or a religious figure of truth, whatever he may be in your eyes after you put this book down. You will surely not stop thinking of this long after you finish this. I am excited just thinking of rereading this again. But this time, I want to relish the magnificence of each story. I will read it in a non-chronological manner, the way Aesop's fables must be read. This book must be read for enjoyment. It also must be read to learn things. I also must be read to discover the universe with new eyes. This book changed me. It made me want to be a better writer who could make something even one-fourth of this. I am sure as a reader or a fellow author, this book would surely leave an impact to you. It will always leave a place in your heart and your mind, and of course, irrevocably it will make vibrations on your soul that will forever resonate with the whole creation. So put me now in a strait jacket or inject me with tranquilizers. I have to somehow stop raving about this book! ...more <+++>Evolution of Insanity</+++> is a book consisting of a great number of short stories, which, on a first look, don't seem to have much in common. Some are darker than others, some are funny and some are sad, like my favourite one, the protagonist who commits suicide because they cannot live up to their own expectations and would rather sink into their own despair than allow themselves to be as they are. As the reader progresses through the book, they'll start to realise the stories are all interlinked, Evolution of Insanity is a book consisting of a great number of short stories, which, on a first look, don't seem to have much in common. Some are darker than others, some are funny and some are sad, like my favourite one, the protagonist who commits suicide because they cannot live up to their own expectations and would rather sink into their own despair than allow themselves to be as they are. As the reader progresses through the book, they'll start to realise the stories are all interlinked, giving the impression of moving from one book character to the next, from one life experience to another. This is a book that hasn't been done before, a remarkable book with surprising depth, beautiful writing, and certainly no dumbed down language to allow it to fit into a genre. When it comes to the language, I'd call it literary; the voice, however, is sharp and educated with plenty of humorous layers to it. The stories are connected in their depth and ability to link reality with fiction, dreams and mysticism with satire and belief, lifestyle and choice with art, and many, many more. It is a philosophical read, and while I'm into all that is philosophical, I often find philosophical books bordering on the boring side. Evolution of Insanity kept me reading from one tale to the other, wondering what would come next. I particularly liked the observational nature of the tales and how they brought to light all that is dark, hidden and twisted in human nature, giving insight into the various facets of humanity in a unique way. I was astounded at the immense creativity and diversity of this book, and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a bit of dark fiction with plenty of humour and excellent writing. ...more Haresh Daswani has a fascinating story-telling style that engages the reader from the very first page. He shows quite a gift for creating rather ordinary people in somewhat odd situations. It's that twist of just a bit odd that brings a unique, life-like quality to each story. His descriptions of both the character and the environment are impeccable. You don't just read the story, you experience the story. That takes talent. I'd love to have his talent for description. Most fascinating of all is Haresh Daswani has a fascinating story-telling style that engages the reader from the very first page. He shows quite a gift for creating rather ordinary people in somewhat odd situations. It's that twist of just a bit odd that brings a unique, life-like quality to each story. His descriptions of both the character and the environment are impeccable. You don't just read the story, you experience the story. That takes talent. I'd love to have his talent for description. Most fascinating of all is how Daswani weaves extraordinary philosophical ideas into these ordinary --- almost unassuming --- characters and settings. You're not expecting it to be as profound as it turns out to be. That's a big plus in my book. If that weren't enough, Daswani's sense of brevity is uncanny. The story is not so long that it interest is lost, yet short enough to leave the reader wanting more and pondering what happens next. This collection of short stories is highly entertaining, thought-provoking, insightful and funny. Best of all, they are stories very well told. I would read more of his stories any time. ...more First of all, I would like to thank the author of this book, Mr. Haresh Daswani, for giving me a copy of this book, and the opportunity to read it and give my thoughts about it. And now, for the review. Obviously, I would not be thanking the author as publicly if I had not enjoyed this book. It is witty, entertaining, filled with crackling anecdotes, and hilarious commentary. Best of all, it is fraught with intelligent observations of how we humans live. Let me go so far as to say that this book i First of all, I would like to thank the author of this book, Mr. Haresh Daswani, for giving me a copy of this book, and the opportunity to read it and give my thoughts about it. And now, for the review. Obviously, I would not be thanking the author as publicly if I had not enjoyed this book. It is witty, entertaining, filled with crackling anecdotes, and hilarious commentary. Best of all, it is fraught with intelligent observations of how we humans live. Let me go so far as to say that this book is best read when you are in your most intellectual mood, as it would dare you to think beyond the words of what is written and delve into the author's mind about how he views things. In a way, I felt that this was not just a book created from the author's imagination, but a reflection of how the author views the world. One would laugh at the humor-filled statements, the comic scenes and settings, but once one understood the essence of such remarks, one could not help but nod and say, \"Yes, that is quite true. Why did I not think of that myself?\" Or maybe even add one's own ideas, maybe disagree with what has been said? Either way, one is challenged to agree or refute the author's ideology and rationalize one's own beliefs. Reading through Daswani's book, I could not help but be reminded of those times in Philosophy class in college. His writing makes the reader think that they are having a conversation with someone else, probably a very favorite teacher, a smart friend, or better yet, the author himself. Which reminded me of those times when we studied Socrates and how he conducted his discussions with his students. Now I am not saying that Daswani is a modern-day Socrates, but what he talked about in this book could spark a lively debate in any Philosophy class and if I were still in college right now, I'd probably bring Evolution of Insanity to school and make our professor torture the whole class with intense conversations about the things talked about in this book. Which is not to say that this book is only good for super-intelligent conversations or musings. You can also read this solely for its entertainment value, and probably use a few lines from this book as your new joke or ice breakers. The possibilities are endless. His writing style is also one for the books. In one chapter, he would go all narrative-like and describe in witty detail a funny story and in another, he would abandon all thought for story-telling and write ideas, observations in prose - straightforward and directly addressing readers, oftentimes even issuing a challenge. Simply put, this book is a good one to have on your shelf to read during moments of boredom, moments of severe bursts of intellect, moments of good conversations, and practically any moment that you would prefer to read. Which, in my case, is very often. ...more I don't know author Haresh Daswani; I've never met him. But I bet that among his friends he's the storyteller, the one they wait for to liven up their nights, the one that can make any story seem interesting - from a trip to the grocery to a night out at the clubs. This collection of short stories runs the gamut, from poignant to poetic to darkly humorous. Daswani plays with words like a child plays with toys - each story is different, each character a surprise. He takes small moments and puts the I don't know author Haresh Daswani; I've never met him. But I bet that among his friends he's the storyteller, the one they wait for to liven up their nights, the one that can make any story seem interesting - from a trip to the grocery to a night out at the clubs. This collection of short stories runs the gamut, from poignant to poetic to darkly humorous. Daswani plays with words like a child plays with toys - each story is different, each character a surprise. He takes small moments and puts them under a microscope; he looks at life and questions why. His perspective varies as well - from first person to second to third. There's some deep thoughts here, some solid creativity. But just when you think Daswani is taking himself too seriously, he throws in a wink and a nod to let you know he's not. His characters are memorable - funny, sad, puzzled and argumentative - often finding themselves in fairly desperate straits. I'll admit - this isn't the type of book I normally pick up - my books are usually far more straightforward whodunits and mysteries. But part of reading is expanding your comfort zone, trying new things. In this case, it was fun to try something new. ...more Kaleidoscope. A kaleidoscope is made up of small colored pieces. And when they are turned and given a different angle, they jell into one beautiful scene. That is what I would associate Haresh\u2019s book with. Like a kaleidoscope, Evolution of Insanity is made up of different pieces, each a unique reflection of the author\u2019s wild imagination. Each story piece has an exceptional storyline that would simply leave the reader in questioning awe, wondering where in this world could Haresh have possibly pi Kaleidoscope. A kaleidoscope is made up of small colored pieces. And when they are turned and given a different angle, they jell into one beautiful scene. That is what I would associate Haresh\u2019s book with. Like a kaleidoscope, Evolution of Insanity is made up of different pieces, each a unique reflection of the author\u2019s wild imagination. Each story piece has an exceptional storyline that would simply leave the reader in questioning awe, wondering where in this world could Haresh have possibly picked up that twist. The variety of themes of the short stories also makes up the pieces of the kaleidoscope. The themes run a wide range \u2013 from spirituality to philosophy to life to beauty \u2026 of girls. All with profundity wrapped in wit and dry humor. These short stories put together in one book reveal the beauty of a kaleidoscope. P.S. Caution: Read at your own risk. This book is not for the faint-hearted. You must have your mind so open, your heart so universal, your humor so flexible, and your imagination so border-free to take utmost pleasure from reading this book. ...more \"True curiosity comes forth in further pursuit of understanding and knowledge. Go ahead, take the first sip.\" The above line, written by Daswani himself from the short story Kripaal, offers a great teaser to the consciously written prose, Evolution of Insanity. In his book, Daswani offers a compilation of short stories, though more essay format, writings and, often times, ramblings of a writer that took painstaking care to use his words to interpret, rather sculpt, an intricate description of str \"True curiosity comes forth in further pursuit of understanding and knowledge. Go ahead, take the first sip.\" The above line, written by Daswani himself from the short story Kripaal, offers a great teaser to the consciously written prose, Evolution of Insanity. In his book, Daswani offers a compilation of short stories, though more essay format, writings and, often times, ramblings of a writer that took painstaking care to use his words to interpret, rather sculpt, an intricate description of struggle, life, God, and many other concepts. This is definitely not light reading, and one can find themselves, and they should, contemplating the meaning behind, motivation behind and thought process behind each tale. There is very little material that offers up what this book delivers. From a writer's lament to philosophical conversations, Evolution of Insanity is brimming with thought provoking ideas, philosophical insights and strong prose. Go ahead, take the first sip and read this book. ...more The Evolution of Insanity is a collection of tales, stories, and fables about a variety of beings. Imagine for a moment you are able to stop and listen, see, witness and understand a segment of the lives of a collection of beings - Gods, godlike, god hating and god wannabes, the dead, the living, the fictional, the alien, male, female, the young and the old. Stories that would have you believe that Santa was killed, \"tongue in cheek\" stories, stories intermingled with intellectual descriptions of The Evolution of Insanity is a collection of tales, stories, and fables about a variety of beings. Imagine for a moment you are able to stop and listen, see, witness and understand a segment of the lives of a collection of beings - Gods, godlike, god hating and god wannabes, the dead, the living, the fictional, the alien, male, female, the young and the old. Stories that would have you believe that Santa was killed, \"tongue in cheek\" stories, stories intermingled with intellectual descriptions of body functions, of the human despair and condition. Stories like the one about a long suffering psychiatrist finding his \"emotional wastebasket\", Adam and Eve personas, Herman of whom we all know one of, the passing of the torch of thoughts and observation as depicted in \"London in the Mind\". Stories that enlighten us about the complexities of the interrelationships between the opposite sexes. Haresh Daswani is a complex writer who writes with intellectual wit and philosophy interlaced with humor. \u201cWe are all insane who hide in rooms further making us insane\u201d. A great read! ...more I have always been interested in books that deviate from the typical writing styles present in most literary pieces. Books that feature intellectually stimulating themes and an equally rousing writing style are my weaknesses. Give me the promise of these things and I will surely devour that book until my curiosity is sated. I think this is one of the reasons why I have always loved reading transgressive fiction and post-modern books. In many ways, Mr. Haresh Daswani\u2019s book, The Evolution of Insa I have always been interested in books that deviate from the typical writing styles present in most literary pieces. Books that feature intellectually stimulating themes and an equally rousing writing style are my weaknesses. Give me the promise of these things and I will surely devour that book until my curiosity is sated. I think this is one of the reasons why I have always loved reading transgressive fiction and post-modern books. In many ways, Mr. Haresh Daswani\u2019s book, The Evolution of Insanity, gave me my much needed doze of intellectual stimulation through the interesting ways he worded his anthology and the eerily realistic plot points that will surely leave you thinking. If I was given a dollar for every utterance of \u201cOo nga noh!\u201d I would\u2019ve been a rich girl by now. I remember the countless of times I stopped reading because I was bombarded with mind numbing bouts of self realization after reading a particularly sharp and moving line. I would then continue reading only to stop and ponder some more\u2026 it\u2019s truly an eye opener! Mr. Daswani\u2019s witty writing style gives the reader a better experience of what it is like to find sanity in the \"insane\" and vice versa. I love how both subtlety and bluntness played with each other fairly well in this book. If Chuck Palahniuk and Paulo Coelho made a novel together, I bet it would be just like Mr. Daswani\u2019s The Evolution of Insanity\u2026an intellectually filling piece packed humor, wit and philosophy. Truly, this book kept its promise\u2026 it sparked my interest, fueled my fascination to continue reading and left me wanting for more. ...more Haresh\u2019s novel combines narrative styles as short passages to uncover the center of madness. His work shifts from the poetry of T. S. Eliot, Cervantes, Joanne Greenberg and Willkie Collins. A vast and impressive number of arrows in Daswani's quiver lead the narrative. The reader shifts from reading as a careful annotator to racing through popular fiction. The writing is literary, meaty and puts a blanket over you to read on to the finish. Bravo and six stars out of five for Haresh Daswani\u2019s Evolu Haresh\u2019s novel combines narrative styles as short passages to uncover the center of madness. His work shifts from the poetry of T. S. Eliot, Cervantes, Joanne Greenberg and Willkie Collins. A vast and impressive number of arrows in Daswani's quiver lead the narrative. The reader shifts from reading as a careful annotator to racing through popular fiction. The writing is literary, meaty and puts a blanket over you to read on to the finish. Bravo and six stars out of five for Haresh Daswani\u2019s Evolution of Insanity You ask me, how can a novel walk through The Waste Land, read as Fast as I never Promised You a Rose Garden and have the mourning ache of The Woman in White? It is here. I highly recommend you read it and the answer is in The Evolution of Insanity. When Cervantes set out to draw Don Quixote did he fall in love with his breath? I'm smitten. ...more What Mr. Daswani has written isn't a collection of short stories, so much as essays, meditations on the miniscule and the mighty, the sacred and the mundane. His words are a rolling litany of the kinds of thoughts that we have sometimes, when the courage to be quiet comes over us and the moment to moment perception of our experiences coaleces into a harmony. This isn't a book to be read straight through. Its Bukowski-esque ravings are best taken one at a time, then digested slowly. It's a work th What Mr. Daswani has written isn't a collection of short stories, so much as essays, meditations on the miniscule and the mighty, the sacred and the mundane. His words are a rolling litany of the kinds of thoughts that we have sometimes, when the courage to be quiet comes over us and the moment to moment perception of our experiences coaleces into a harmony. This isn't a book to be read straight through. Its Bukowski-esque ravings are best taken one at a time, then digested slowly. It's a work that challenges the reader, dizzies them, and makes no apologies. His essence of True Spirituality was especially engrossing, even for an atheist like me. If you're up to the challenge, if you're not afraid of losing your mind a bit, then you don't want to miss this book. ...more This author has a wonderful way of making you think about, and observe, your world around you. I felt like I was in Chicago, and though I have only spent a few months there, I have watched a lot of thses types of antics go on around me. If we could slow our world down, and really pay attention, what would we see? And would the seeing bring us closer to understanding? Or would it bring us closer to our own insanity--and there is where you find, The Evolution of Insanity. I have not enjoyed reading This author has a wonderful way of making you think about, and observe, your world around you. I felt like I was in Chicago, and though I have only spent a few months there, I have watched a lot of thses types of antics go on around me. If we could slow our world down, and really pay attention, what would we see? And would the seeing bring us closer to understanding? Or would it bring us closer to our own insanity--and there is where you find, The Evolution of Insanity. I have not enjoyed reading something so much in my life. I believe we'll be listening to Heresh Daswani on great talk shows, like Chicago on NPR, showing his delightful insights, for many years to come. I easily gave this book 5 stars ...more Very well written with a high proficiency level. Four stars only as I thought the stories were random rather than see a connection like another reviewer. I liked how the author explored humanity and how well he brought across his observations. This was a good read for a short story collection, and this is coming from someone who doesn't usually read short stories. I would read more by this author to see what he can come up with in full-length fiction. This book is a collection of short stories, some are very short indeed. Haresh Daswani has a great sense of description and his stories bare this out. He establishes the plot in each story and moves it along very well. The stories are unusual. However, the author pulls you into each one because you don't know what to expect. It's a goodread. I found this book very interesting, but also very hard to stay attentive to. The style is not typical of readings I have done, and while that intrigued me, it made it difficult to hold on to the thread of what the author was conveying. Perhaps a more erudite reader with sophisticated skills would gain more from this book. I thank the author for making it available to me. Ordinary with somewhat of a humorous twist. This book of short stories is one that I could relate to at times, and then it took me to a different space. Haresh has his own unique style of writing, and a gifted one at that. Interesting and enjoyable! This is a fascinating book. The author circumvents traditional word usages and grammar to convey particular meanings into a series of short stories and reflections. There is an excellent darkly comic sense running throughout. It is highly original; I haven\u2019t read much experimental writing recently, and I found it intriguing and challenging. Having a bizarre sense of humour myself, I really enjoyed the strangeness of this series of sketches of particular instances of \u2018The Evolution of Insanity\u2019. This is a fascinating book. The author circumvents traditional word usages and grammar to convey particular meanings into a series of short stories and reflections. There is an excellent darkly comic sense running throughout. It is highly original; I haven\u2019t read much experimental writing recently, and I found it intriguing and challenging. Having a bizarre sense of humour myself, I really enjoyed the strangeness of this series of sketches of particular instances of \u2018The Evolution of Insanity\u2019. The expected doesn\u2019t happen. This can be ridiculous, as in the case of the confrontation between a cynic who runs a cult and his disillusioned disciple, or very sad, as in the story of the man whose ex-girlfiiend Alice thinks she has incontravertable evidence that he loves her still. It\u2019s difficult to choose a quote out of a wealth of them, here are a few of my favourites: On the question of why aliens haven\u2019t landed on Earth; - \u2018Is it possible that in their search of intelligent beings they have decided ot skip our world?' Or, there is some facetiousness that made me laugh out loud, and is typical of the quirky humour; - 'Dave has not said much this time around, which is unfair, for he is another popular fictional character and part of his obligation in his contract in all short stories is to have a line or two to provide, and give insight...'\" The bit about an author losing control of his/her character, and having a conversation with it really struck home as that's what I'm writing about at the moment, talk about synchronicity. For all the humour, there are deep undertones running through this: 'Removal of boundaries is a very vital point to enlightenment, which encourages an open and curious mind...Boundaries require guards are effective only if they have weapons...' There\u2019s a particularly fascinating insight into Lucifer. The originality is remarkable, and I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to read something out of the ordinary that challanges set assumptions. ...more As is indicated from the offset, Evolution of Insanity is more focused on the whole of the work rather than its individual parts. While each story works well on its own, it\u2019s when they\u2019re brought together under the same umbrella that the cohesion is apparent. London in the Mind calls, \u201cBeauty, could only exist, if its creator has put effort to make it beautiful.\u201d Which seems to be a call to the creator himself. A call that is emphasized by Robert\u2019s frustrations in the following story. A writer t As is indicated from the offset, Evolution of Insanity is more focused on the whole of the work rather than its individual parts. While each story works well on its own, it\u2019s when they\u2019re brought together under the same umbrella that the cohesion is apparent. London in the Mind calls, \u201cBeauty, could only exist, if its creator has put effort to make it beautiful.\u201d Which seems to be a call to the creator himself. A call that is emphasized by Robert\u2019s frustrations in the following story. A writer that seeks to portray something beautiful but is constantly tormented by his own limitations as well as the distractions of the world around him. All of which seems to mirror the conflicts in the writing process of Haresh M. Daswani himself. Some of the pieces, like Terminal Thoughts at Ten in the Evening, read more like extended poems than short stories. Others still are meditations on the blessings of the world that surround us or on the recent economic struggles that the world has endured. The \u2018voice\u2019 varies from clinical to poetic and from formal to vulgar. Which makes for variety, but some of which does make for awkward reading. This awkwardness comes across mostly in the first two stories, but quickly disappears after that. A particular favorite of mine was Meditating Lord Nocturne. The imagery was well developed without being too flowery, while thelanguage remains graceful. ...more Evolution of Insanity was nothing I had expected. It totally opened my eyes. Darwani takes you on a journey of many intriguing tales. Each tale includes unique characters and settings. Although these characters are fictitious, you can\u2019t help but wonder if the author has ever come across someone like them before. He paints a perfect picture of each distinctive lives and their struggles, observations and thoughts. This story enlightened me in many different ways. Sometimes I felt sorry for the cha Evolution of Insanity was nothing I had expected. It totally opened my eyes. Darwani takes you on a journey of many intriguing tales. Each tale includes unique characters and settings. Although these characters are fictitious, you can\u2019t help but wonder if the author has ever come across someone like them before. He paints a perfect picture of each distinctive lives and their struggles, observations and thoughts. This story enlightened me in many different ways. Sometimes I felt sorry for the characters, sometimes I was humored, and there were times when I thought if such person can exist. As each story ends, I couldn\u2019t wait to read the next. Every story draws you into the character\u2019s lives as if you were right there observing them. I would love to hang out with Haresh and just listen to his story all day. I bet he has tons to tell and each just as amazing as the other. This is not the type of book I would just pick up and read, but I\u2019m glad I did. ...more Haresh Daswani is not your usual author, and it is no surprise he\u2019s written a pretty unusual book. The title \u201cEvolution of Insanity\u201d is an exercise in truthful advertising. Either Daswani is nuts or he\u2019s operating on a level way up there in the stratosphere. The book is a collection of short chapters that contain virtually no dialogue. The descriptions of simple things take on a kind of poetic oscillation that are always moving and impossible to pin down. This book abandons standard narrative Haresh Daswani is not your usual author, and it is no surprise he\u2019s written a pretty unusual book. The title \u201cEvolution of Insanity\u201d is an exercise in truthful advertising. Either Daswani is nuts or he\u2019s operating on a level way up there in the stratosphere. The book is a collection of short chapters that contain virtually no dialogue. The descriptions of simple things take on a kind of poetic oscillation that are always moving and impossible to pin down. This book abandons standard narrative structure and embraces a James Joyce type stream-of-consciousness that will make you sometimes smile and sometimes scratch your head. I liked it. It felt fresh and different from the norm, even if I don\u2019t feel smart enough to understand all of it. ...more Evolution of Insanity is a compilation of musings packaged as short stories that range from poetic in tone to very dark. The stories initially appear to have little in common. As you move deeper into the book, however, you find that all the stories are carefully interwoven. Each tale is populated by original characters and the author deftly offers insights into the feelings, thoughts, and challengers of their quotidian lives. Haresh Daswani\u2019s writing style is refreshingly different and his philo Evolution of Insanity is a compilation of musings packaged as short stories that range from poetic in tone to very dark. The stories initially appear to have little in common. As you move deeper into the book, however, you find that all the stories are carefully interwoven. Each tale is populated by original characters and the author deftly offers insights into the feelings, thoughts, and challengers of their quotidian lives. Haresh Daswani\u2019s writing style is refreshingly different and his philosophy on the current state of the human condition is thought provoking and highly entertaining. I love this book. ...more Evolution of Insanity is a collection of short stories that reveals (<---B>in a very creative way</---B>) the author's interesting perspective on human nature, the nature of inspiration and the art of crafting a story. My personal favorites from the collection are Sand, The Story of Ernest and Cosmic Violet. I absolutely love the author's style of storytelling and the way he uses humor to convey complex observations. I also see where the book is a platform to share some philosophical information, but not in Evolution of Insanity is a collection of short stories that reveals (in a very creative way) the author's interesting perspective on human nature, the nature of inspiration and the art of crafting a story. My personal favorites from the collection are Sand, The Story of Ernest and Cosmic Violet. I absolutely love the author's style of storytelling and the way he uses humor to convey complex observations. I also see where the book is a platform to share some philosophical information, but not in a preachy manner\u2026it is classy and very well done. Overall this book gets two thumbs up from me and I would certainly recommend it to my friends (in fact I have already). ...more Now for a review from a self diagnosed reader with ADD. I like that this book has a bunch of short stories, so I read a chapter a day like a bedtime story. Thats all I can take. A person with ADD needs to know what it is he's reading and with each short story being different it makes it easy to get through the book. Easy, but harder if that makes sense! A touch of humor is added to this book which is great. A good book for those who struggle with reading books, a chapter a day is a great way to g Now for a review from a self diagnosed reader with ADD. I like that this book has a bunch of short stories, so I read a chapter a day like a bedtime story. Thats all I can take. A person with ADD needs to know what it is he's reading and with each short story being different it makes it easy to get through the book. Easy, but harder if that makes sense! A touch of humor is added to this book which is great. A good book for those who struggle with reading books, a chapter a day is a great way to get back into reading. ...more I have actually given up on this - such a shame as the ideas/concepts are interesting and, at times, really funny. However, the lack of editing and the many, many typos etc have made it a very difficult read for this one - I have made it about half way through and will, at some point, go back to it. As I said, a shame, but the poor/lack of editing detracts from the text. Rather odd, but one might expect that from the title. BUT intersting. Evolution of Insanity is a unique collection of short stories that range from intellectual, philosophical, humorous, dark, insightful and poetic. All of them are told from a very interesting and creative viewpoint. To read Evolution of Insanity is to admit that the world is not perfect, to learn to adapt to the reality of the world and to see just where your own behaviour could be construed as insane, or even offensive to someone with a perspective necessarily different from your own. I thought Evolution of Insanity would be a novel, or at least a set of linked stories with an overall arc, but it seems to be a collection of the Haresh Daswani's storeis, essays and poems. While there is no story link, the in To read Evolution of Insanity is to admit that the world is not perfect, to learn to adapt to the reality of the world and to see just where your own behaviour could be construed as insane, or even offensive to someone with a perspective necessarily different from your own. I thought Evolution of Insanity would be a novel, or at least a set of linked stories with an overall arc, but it seems to be a collection of the Haresh Daswani's storeis, essays and poems. While there is no story link, the individual entries are linked by Daswani's wry humour and razor-sharp observations. The entries in the book include short stories (some very short), absurdist observations of the vagaries of everyday life; observations on social trends; essays on religion, life and people; and even a few poems. I have to admit, I was put off at first by the large number of grammatical, punctuation and typographical errors. But these are more than offset by the humour and underlying honesty of the work. That's what I mean by accepting imperfection: there is much to enjoy in this book. I found myself smiling, even laughing several times; but more often, I found myself recognizing the characters as people I had met in my own life. Some of it is absurd, sure. But it's all grounded in Daswani's ability to see what people are really doing, and analyzing so accurately the often twisted thought process behind those actions. Ultimately, it makes us question how logical or straightforward our own thought processes and actions are. Do I do those things? Do I stare at inanimate objects for inspiration while writing about something completely different, like the author in the first vignette? Grammatical problems aside, Daswani's book is enjoyable and interesting. You cannot stop reading it once you stop. So maybe the best description is subversive and addictive. No. It's a positive force in the world. Just buy it, read it and let the rest of the world know what you think ...more I haven't started reading the book yet, so this is just a grumpy review of the ebook file I downloaded from goodreads: The author is listed as unknown and the title is listed as a numerical sequence, and I can't figure out how to change these settings. Then, once on my e-reader, the chapters listed in the table of contents only link to page one, not the chapter head. In fairness, the in-text table of contents lists the page of each chapter, making it easier to jump the page. And then apostrophes I haven't started reading the book yet, so this is just a grumpy review of the ebook file I downloaded from goodreads: The author is listed as unknown and the title is listed as a numerical sequence, and I can't figure out how to change these settings. Then, once on my e-reader, the chapters listed in the table of contents only link to page one, not the chapter head. In fairness, the in-text table of contents lists the page of each chapter, making it easier to jump the page. And then apostrophes showed up as question marks. I know it's not really a big deal, but the file quality is something I would expect from a torrent, not a product that I actually paid for. grumpy grump grump. :( but less grumpy if someone could advise me to change the offending settings? Google has been of no help. ...more If the experience of ADHD was written down, it would be this book. I really liked the first few stories but the lack of cohesion between them somehow baffled me and made me decide not to finish this book.<---C>Haresh Daswani</---C>", "Title": "Evolution of Insanity"},
