{"Comments": "You know that game you can play where \"The Karate Kid\" becomes a lot funnier if you just imagine that Mr. Miyagi is stoned the whole time? You don't? Well, now you do. Anyway,<---M> I've devised my own little game</---M>, and I play it every time I read a <---A>Lee Child</---A> thriller. I imagine that his hero, <---C>Jack Reacher</---C>, has Asperger's Syndrome. Before any of you \"psychologists\" out there jump all over me -- no, all the pieces don't fit -- but his obsessive tendencies, his refusal to own any possessions, his rootlessne You know that game you can play where \"The Karate Kid\" becomes a lot funnier if you just imagine that Mr. Miyagi is stoned the whole time? You don't? Well, now you do. Anyway, I've devised my own little game, and I play it every time I read a Lee Child thriller. I imagine that his hero, Jack Reacher, has Asperger's Syndrome. Before any of you \"psychologists\" out there jump all over me -- no, all the pieces don't fit -- but his obsessive tendencies, his refusal to own any possessions, his rootlessness, and the amount of time he lavishes on noticing small, precise, exact details add up to someone who is very, very different from most everyone else on planet earth. I'm actually not a big fan of DSM classifications, so maybe diagnosing Jack Reacher on the autism scale is a waste of time. Still, his brain does work in a strange and particular way. When someone pulls a gun on him, the reader is not only going to find out that it's a Ruger Speed-Six .<---F>357 Magnum, but also that the </---F>.357 Magnum was invented in 1935, and that \"magnum\" is Latin for \"big.\" When Jack Reacher is riding a subway car, he's not only going to describe the size of the car, the other passengers, and the sounds of the train going through the tunnels and the brakes screeching, he's also going to let the reader know that he's on car number 7622, which is an R142A model, which is the newest on the MTA transit system, and that it was built in Kobe, Japan, by Kawasaki. He's also going to assign his fellow passengers numbers and spend an inordinate amount of time describing to the reader exactly where they are sitting in relation to him. In fact, Reacher spends so much time over the course of the first several chapters describing his exact surroundings on the subway (<---B>where he thinks he's spotted a female suicide bomber</---B>) that I was surprised when things came to a hasty conclusion and he was off on adventures through New York City and down the eastern seaboard to Washington, D.C. I actually think Lee Child's thrillers work best when he embraces the fact that his protagonist is somewhat odd (although I'm not sure he realizes just how odd he is). They don't work so well when he spends time trying to build romantic relationships for Reacher (as in Tripwire ) because they're never believable. At least in <+++>Gone Tomorrow</+++> , the only sex scene is mercifully brief and in keeping with his character. (\"It was all good. Then we passed some kind of a threshold and got into it harder. A short minute later we were completely out of control.\" Done.) Of all the Jack Reacher thrillers I've read so far, I'd classify them as either \"not so good\" or \"pretty good,\" and this one falls firmly in the region of \"pretty good.\" It frequently approaches \"damned good,\" but not quite often enough for me to bump my rating up from three stars to four stars. Oh, and in my last review of a Reacher thriller -- 61 Hours , the book published right after this one -- I was left with a single burning question. Does the homeless Jack Reacher ever brush his teeth? Well, <+++>Gone Tomorrow</+++> finally answered my question. Several times in the book he mentions the folding toothbrush he carries with him everywhere. So I can cross that off my list of burning questions. ...more This one's hard to review because any little detail I reveal might turn out to spoil a surprise for someone. I will say this was an exciting, satisfying read. Much more like his earlier Reacher books that got us hooked. Once you get past a certain point in the book, there's no good stopping point. You just have to keep reading right on through. Don't expect perfect plausibility. It's a thriller, so let yourself go and enjoy! There are even a few good laughs along the way. The thing about the rub This one's hard to review because any little detail I reveal might turn out to spoil a surprise for someone. I will say this was an exciting, satisfying read. Much more like his earlier Reacher books that got us hooked. Once you get past a certain point in the book, there's no good stopping point. You just have to keep reading right on through. Don't expect perfect plausibility. It's a thriller, so let yourself go and enjoy! There are even a few good laughs along the way. The thing about the rubber gardening clogs had me cackling. Jack Reacher witnesses a late-night tragedy involving a woman on a New York subway. He is approached by various people who know he was a witness. They ask him questions that make no sense to him, and he decides to figure out why the woman did what she did on the subway. Stubborn and arrogant as ever, Reacher refuses to back off regardless of the danger level. It's an elaborate cat and mouse game through the streets and subways of New York City. Who's the cat and who's the mouse remains to be decided as the story progresses. There's only one small thing left unrevealed at the end that I really wanted to know. We can only hope it will be revealed in a future installment. ...more This book was brilliant. I couldn\u2019t put it down. The action was there right from the beginning and didn\u2019t let up throughout the whole story. The plot was fast paced, which made it a real page turner. The main character is one of those people that you can\u2019t help but like, despite the fact that he\u2019s a killer. The characterisation of Reacher is in-depth and gives the book real integrity. Having read Killing Floor - which introduced Jack Reacher - but nothing in between, I liked how the character ha This book was brilliant. I couldn\u2019t put it down. The action was there right from the beginning and didn\u2019t let up throughout the whole story. The plot was fast paced, which made it a real page turner. The main character is one of those people that you can\u2019t help but like, despite the fact that he\u2019s a killer. The characterisation of Reacher is in-depth and gives the book real integrity. Having read Killing Floor - which introduced Jack Reacher - but nothing in between, I liked how the character has developed between the two books. I liked the length of the chapters. They were relatively short, which meant that each part of the book could be digested in smaller chunks and it made it easier to come back to after a break. There were a couple of twists in the book that kept my interest, and I thought they added to the plot \u2013 sometimes twists can seem contrived, but not in this case. I liked the plot subject - I can't actually say anything about it, as that would give away details, but suffice to say it's very relevant and I liked Child's take on it. A great book, definitely one I\u2019d recommend to fans of fast-paced thrillers. I\u2019ve only read one other Lee Child book (and enjoyed that one too as it happens), but I\u2019ll definitely be reading the previous books in this series. ...more I was on page 369 before I realized that one of the characters in this novel by Lee Child was named Lee. Yes, yes, it was her last name, but she is constantly referred to as Lee, and yet I didn't notice till I was more than halfway through the book. I usually notice that type of author hilarity fairly quickly, but not this time. THAT'S how completely immersed I was in the action. This book is utterly absorbing. I am amazed at Child's ability to keep the pace break-neck and the turns switch-back I was on page 369 before I realized that one of the characters in this novel by Lee Child was named Lee. Yes, yes, it was her last name, but she is constantly referred to as Lee, and yet I didn't notice till I was more than halfway through the book. I usually notice that type of author hilarity fairly quickly, but not this time. THAT'S how completely immersed I was in the action. This book is utterly absorbing. I am amazed at Child's ability to keep the pace break-neck and the turns switch-back and the dialogue and narratorial commentary tongue-in-cheek. I was on a roller-coaster on a ride I did not want to end, and so I read this 500+-page novel in the course of two days, basically in about nine hours. I was not happy when the novel was over, yet I am gleeful that I have the next novel in the series on my \"To-Read Shelf.\" I am going to savor the anticipation and NOT start the book for at least a week as I enjoy the post-novel glow. If you want to read a thrilling thriller; read this one--or any other Jack Reacher novel. I've read six now, and every one was a great pleasure. If you've never read a Jack Reacher novel and only saw poor little Tom Cruise trying not only to fill but actually walk in Reacher's very large ass-kicking boots, then I envy you (although I'm sorry to hear you wasted money on the movie when you could have bought two of the novels)--you have sixteen or seventeen hits of bliss ahead of you in novel-sized installments. Go ye forth and enjoy. ...more I hate subways. They are a claustrophobic and xenophobic nightmare. Underground tin cans bulleting through tunnels, stuffed wall-to-wall with sweaty, grumpy people. Not my idea of fun. After reading Lee Child's 13th book in his Jack Reacher series, \"Gone Tomorrow\", I hate them even more. Reacher has a talent for finding trouble. One could argue that trouble finds him, but half the time he does most of the footwork. In this case, a simple subway ride turns into a violent roller-coaster with geo-po I hate subways. They are a claustrophobic and xenophobic nightmare. Underground tin cans bulleting through tunnels, stuffed wall-to-wall with sweaty, grumpy people. Not my idea of fun. After reading Lee Child's 13th book in his Jack Reacher series, \"Gone Tomorrow\", I hate them even more. Reacher has a talent for finding trouble. One could argue that trouble finds him, but half the time he does most of the footwork. In this case, a simple subway ride turns into a violent roller-coaster with geo-political ramifications. Reacher finds a seat in a random subway car at 2 a.m. Besides himself, there are five other passengers. By pure luck, one of the passengers is a woman named Susan Marks. Based on his military knowledge and experience, Reacher is aware of the Israeli counterintelligence checklist for identifying a suicide bomber. There are eleven indicators. Ms. Marks exhibits ten of them. To say more would spoil the fun and suspense of this novel, which builds to a terrifying crescendo. It is, also, probably the most violent of the Reacher novels thus far, so a word to the squeamish: if this were a movie, you would probably have to cover your eyes through nearly a third of it. ...more I like the Reacher series. When I\u2019m done with one, I\u2019m eager for the next. This was good. STORY BRIEF: While riding on a subway train, Reacher sees Susan Mark kill herself. He is questioned by the cops, the feds, and a group of mercenary security guards. These groups and others think Reacher knows more than he says, and they follow him, pressure him, and try to hurt him to get information. This makes Reacher want to retaliate. So now he is now on the trail to find out what\u2019s going on. REVIEWER\u2019S OP I like the Reacher series. When I\u2019m done with one, I\u2019m eager for the next. This was good. STORY BRIEF: While riding on a subway train, Reacher sees Susan Mark kill herself. He is questioned by the cops, the feds, and a group of mercenary security guards. These groups and others think Reacher knows more than he says, and they follow him, pressure him, and try to hurt him to get information. This makes Reacher want to retaliate. So now he is now on the trail to find out what\u2019s going on. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: Some of the other Reacher stories didn\u2019t have the thriller element. They were solving a mystery with some action. I prefer thrillers like this one - meaning we are in the heads of the bad guys and watch them as they try to hurt Reacher and others. I enjoy the series. You need to suspend disbelief at times. This is almost like a comic book super hero. I have these short bursts of laughter when I hear some of Reacher\u2019s macho dialogue. It\u2019s fun. I like hanging out with him. NARRATOR: The narrator Dick Hill was very good. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 14 hrs and 13 mins. Swearing language: I don\u2019t recall any. Sexual language: none. Number of sex scenes: one referred to not shown. Setting: current day mostly New York City with a little in Washington DC and North Carolina. Book copyright: 2009. Genre: mystery suspense thriller. Ending: feel good and satisfying. THE SERIES: Following is a list of the Jack Reacher books in order with my ratings. All the books could be read as stand-alones, but I\u2019d recommend reading them in order, maybe saving the lower rated ones for last. 4 \u00bd stars. Killing Floor (#1) 4 stars. Die Trying (#2) 4 stars. Tripwire (#3) 2 \u00bd stars. Running Blind (#4) 4 stars. Echo Burning (#5) 3 \u00bd stars. Without Fail (#6) 4 stars. Persuader (#7) 3 stars. The Enemy (#8) 4 \u00bd stars. One Shot (#9) 3 stars. The Hard Way (#10) 3 \u00bd stars. Bad Luck and Trouble (#11) 2 stars. Nothing To Lose (#12) 4 stars. Gone Tomorrow (#13) 3 stars. 61 Hours (#14) 4 \u00bd stars. Worth Dying For (#15) 4 stars. The Affair (#16) 4 \u00bd stars. Second Son (short story at the end of the \u201cThe Affair\u201d) ...more This is the 13th novel in the Jack Reacher series. I have found the series to be very enjoyable but as with any series some stories are better than others. This is one of the better ones. When the novel opens Jack Reacher is in New York City riding a subway at 2AM. He is observing the few other passengers in the subway car. There are five. Four look okay. The fifth doesn't. She raises a red flag in Reacher's mind. When he was an MP and in Israel he was made aware of a list of physical and behavio This is the 13th novel in the Jack Reacher series. I have found the series to be very enjoyable but as with any series some stories are better than others. This is one of the better ones. When the novel opens Jack Reacher is in New York City riding a subway at 2AM. He is observing the few other passengers in the subway car. There are five. Four look okay. The fifth doesn't. She raises a red flag in Reacher's mind. When he was an MP and in Israel he was made aware of a list of physical and behavioral characteristics that suicide bombers exhibit. Susan Mark, the fifth passenger, is showing signs of many of the items on the list. But the timing is wrong. It is 2AM. There are only six passengers on car. The subway platforms have few, if any, passengers. Reacher approaches her to try and assist and access the situation. The result is disastrous. Susan Mark is not a suicide bomber but she does commit suicide. A comment by one of the investigating NYPD officers causes Reacher to question himself and how he handled the situation. The cast of characters in this thriller is large and diverse. NYPD appear eager to close the case without investigating. Reacher is repeatedly and emphatically warned off the case by the FBI and Department of Defense / Homeland Security. There is a former Delta Force officer now running for the U.S. Senate. Then there is the beautiful and mysterious woman and her mother with a fantastic story. The problem? Everyone is lying to Reacher. No one is telling the truth. Of course tell Reacher to drop it and leave it alone and he will do the opposite. This is a story of choices made and actions taken in the past and their impact on today. In this case the trail leads back to the Soviet war in Afghanistan in the 1980s. Sometimes our friends become our enemies. Sometimes our enemies become our friends. Who was Susan Mark and what secret did she take to her grave? One thing is sure ... Jack Reacher is not going to be scared off. Not by the FBI. Not by the Department of Defense and Homeland Security. And certainly not by a beautiful woman and her mother. ...more One of the best Reacher books yet - I'm giving it 5 stars just because how he dealt with the evil doers. No condescending bullshit, the author knew the reader wanted to see the villains suffer - I certainly did, after having nightmares reliving \"that scene\" - so he had Reacher go all out crazy on them. I applaud you, Mr. Child! As usual, Reacher is minding his own business - this time in the subway - when he sees a situation and gets involved. Soon enough, he's looking for answers even though the One of the best Reacher books yet - I'm giving it 5 stars just because how he dealt with the evil doers. No condescending bullshit, the author knew the reader wanted to see the villains suffer - I certainly did, after having nightmares reliving \"that scene\" - so he had Reacher go all out crazy on them. I applaud you, Mr. Child! As usual, Reacher is minding his own business - this time in the subway - when he sees a situation and gets involved. Soon enough, he's looking for answers even though the Police, the Feds and pretty much everybody and their dog tells him to forget about it. For the first half of the book, there's a lot of investigation and setting the stage for the second half, which is high octane and full of action. I like Reacher in New York. A few of the books are set in the City, but this is the one where he spends most time on the ground. Mr. Child captured the spirit of the people - that scene in Union Square was priceless - and did great research. I'm very familiar with Union Square/Gramercy so it gave me a thrill to imagine Reacher moving from place to place (I even used to shop early in the morning in that Food Emporium, so now I have this image of Reacher evading the cops by pretending to grocery shop.) Dick Hill has become the voice of Reacher and his performance with \"that scene\" was masterful. You could feel Reacher shutting down to control his emotions but you could still feel his impotence and his rage. It gave me chills. The denouement was all that that it should have been. The villains PAID and it wasn't pretty or quick. I had a particular wish and Reacher obliged me. It was awesome. After so much violence, you would think I'd spend a second night in a row having nightmares but instead, I slept like a baby. I guess I felt more secure knowing Reacher had taken care of business. ...more Typically I devour a \"Jack Reacher\" novel. His quick wit, logistical and deductive reasoning abilities make for an likeable, deadly, eccentric hero. \"Gone Tomorrow\" however, was somewhat disappointing. Instead of being enthusiastically pulled more and more into the story, I had to push myself to read through dead spots and a couple totally unnecessary graphically gruesome ramblings. Also, Reacher's famous wit seemed sparse and somewhat flat. Overall though, a viable, intelligent, solid plot...ju Typically I devour a \"Jack Reacher\" novel. His quick wit, logistical and deductive reasoning abilities make for an likeable, deadly, eccentric hero. \"Gone Tomorrow\" however, was somewhat disappointing. Instead of being enthusiastically pulled more and more into the story, I had to push myself to read through dead spots and a couple totally unnecessary graphically gruesome ramblings. Also, Reacher's famous wit seemed sparse and somewhat flat. Overall though, a viable, intelligent, solid plot...just not a Lee Child home run. ...more A mystery/thriller with a plot about terrorists, in both the past and present. The first half of the book was mostly solving the mystery. The second half was mostly action and dealing with the bad guys. One plot point was partially unresolved, which disappointed me a bit. Maybe it gets addressed in a later book in the series? A quick read that held my interest. I like the Jack Reacher series but my goodness this was tedious. I kept putting it down and not wanting to go back to it. Reacher is on a New York train when he sees a woman who meets all the usual requirements for a suicide bomber but when he sticks his snout in, the woman whips out a gun and kills herself. Everyone else on the train car disappears and he is left to explain what happened. Immediately he is hassled by the feds, the NYPD, and some mysterious foreign guys in cheap suits with phony I like the Jack Reacher series but my goodness this was tedious. I kept putting it down and not wanting to go back to it. Reacher is on a New York train when he sees a woman who meets all the usual requirements for a suicide bomber but when he sticks his snout in, the woman whips out a gun and kills herself. Everyone else on the train car disappears and he is left to explain what happened. Immediately he is hassled by the feds, the NYPD, and some mysterious foreign guys in cheap suits with phony business cards and two weird female leaders- a mean old hag who is from the middle east and loves to slice people open and skin them and a model worthy beauty named Lila who is even meaner than the hag. Eek! So Reacher is in the middle of the mess because they all want a certain federal file that the dead woman lifted (she works for the Dept of Defense) and has on a flash drive and everyone- including a former military guy who had done an illegal mission in Lila's country and who is running for political office- thinks the dead woman gave it to Reacher. Soon he is involved in intrigue and is being chased by the police, feds, and international murdering terrorists. Somehow this is just , I don't know, blah. He has his usual roll in the hay once with a female detective for no apparent reason (there is nothing in it for her). ...more I'm a big Jack Reacher fan even though he is a totally ridiculous fantasy of a man. Jack is homeless but not broke. He travels with a fold up toothbrush, an ATM card and an expired passport. He has no suitcase. Just buys new clothes when the old ones get dirty. That's the fun part of the character. A sort of paladin who stumbles into mysteries which he must solve with brain and brawn (Jack is a huge guy who pretty much never loses a fight even against four or five experienced fellows). And, in e I'm a big Jack Reacher fan even though he is a totally ridiculous fantasy of a man. Jack is homeless but not broke. He travels with a fold up toothbrush, an ATM card and an expired passport. He has no suitcase. Just buys new clothes when the old ones get dirty. That's the fun part of the character. A sort of paladin who stumbles into mysteries which he must solve with brain and brawn (Jack is a huge guy who pretty much never loses a fight even against four or five experienced fellows). And, in every novel in this series he manages to get laid. That was pretty much the weak part of Gone Tomorrow, already number one on the best seller list. Lee Child sort of phoned in the sex scene because, I suppose, it is obligatory that the ladies just can't resist our Jack. Gone Tomorrow is very contemporary with references to the Patriot Act, Guantanamo, and shadowy defense department figures. There's a politician with a past, bad guys and girls and Jack Reacher to sort it all out. Not the best in the series but, as always, a good read. Finished it in a twenty four hour time frame. Warning: Jack always kills a lot of people. ...more I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social con I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies. He embraces it. Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values. He defends those he loves, those he does allow into his world, with a loyalty bar none while never letting go of the notion that he is alone and being perfectly comfortable with that. I read one, and within two months read all 15 books with an appetite that couldn't get enough. Enough said, HR ...more Gone Tomorrow (Jack Reacher, #13), Lee Child We all know that Jack Reacher is a psychopathic loner wandering aimlessly across America working out childhood conflicts by breaking bones. While he is socially isolated and eschews attachments he has a strange habit of instantly involving himself in conflicts which do not involve him, thus presenting the opportunity to inflict excess violence on his newly discovered foes. What more could you ask for? We tend to overlook his manifest faults because the writing is so good, and the foes so evil, i We all know that Jack Reacher is a psychopathic loner wandering aimlessly across America working out childhood conflicts by breaking bones. While he is socially isolated and eschews attachments he has a strange habit of instantly involving himself in conflicts which do not involve him, thus presenting the opportunity to inflict excess violence on his newly discovered foes. What more could you ask for? We tend to overlook his manifest faults because the writing is so good, and the foes so evil, it is after all fiction, and fiction well done. The plotting is wonderful, as the Jack slowly but unerringly works out the nature of the evil and corrects it. The problem is that at the start of the story Jack makes his commitments before he can know who is evil, or what evil lurks in the heart of men. In fiction this is fine since the deus ex libre knows how it will turn out and to whom morality leads. In real life it would not be so simple, and errors would be made. Gone Tomorrow, follows in the Reacher tradition, but inserts uncertainty from which fears flow. Set in a post 9/11 world, with flash backs to the cold war, Jack finds himself engaged in a conflict with no moral foundation. There are no sides aligned with justice. Indeed the lack of a morality is the moral. The story involves the soviet invasion of Afghanistan, in an attempt to export ideology which is morally bankrupt. This is followed by American covert action pay back for Vietnam. Twenty years latter come the blow back. Destruction of the Soviet Union and coarsening of life in America. In the end we are left with specific unknowns, including what the book was ostensibly about. Jack may or may not have been on the right side in this one, we are left guessing. Or, more likely the story is about how there is not right side in a compromised, morally declining society, and that is why Jack is left out in the cold. Always entertaining, it is worth the read, and the questions it asks. ...more This was the first Reacher novel I read, and after reading it I had to read every single one of them, so now I am caught up. Why do I love Reacher? For a few reasons. First, because he seeks justice no matter what, and it is fascinating to see a character in action who follows that ALL THE WAY to its conclusion - which can get to some very unexpected places. Second, because watching him solve the mystery and do the deductions and bring obscure knowledge to bear is what every mystery reader has l This was the first Reacher novel I read, and after reading it I had to read every single one of them, so now I am caught up. Why do I love Reacher? For a few reasons. First, because he seeks justice no matter what, and it is fascinating to see a character in action who follows that ALL THE WAY to its conclusion - which can get to some very unexpected places. Second, because watching him solve the mystery and do the deductions and bring obscure knowledge to bear is what every mystery reader has loved about mysteries since the Sherlock Holmes novels (maybe before)? And finally, I enjoy the tactics, strategies, and details about combat that Child uses. Quibbles? I have only one. (SPOILER ALERT). I've written about, and studied, Afghanistan and South Asia, and have been there a few times. I have also written about the war on terror and US foreign policy in the region. Lee Child has these events in the background of the book, but the Afghanistan he is writing about is truly unrecognizable for someone who knows the real thing. That doesn't detract from it as a novel. Indeed, it is a pattern in the Reacher novels - to have over-the-top villains who are extraordinarily depraved only makes Reacher and his allies more courageous in facing them and more righteous in meting out justice to them. It is a thriller after all, and the world of thrillers is a more dangerous one than real life, most of the time. So I think that in fiction of this kind, where and how to depart from realism is an interesting question. Child's choices lead to thrilling fiction, so I can't complain too much (which is why it's only a quibble). And now, back to waiting for September when the next Reacher novel comes out! ...more I really enjoyed this book. Probably the best Jack Reacher yet. I had issues with a couple of the first Reacher novels, and the later ones too - mainly because Reacher tends to talk and think more than act in them. This one has just the right balance of mystery and suspense - Reacher has to figure out what's going on and why and the process is as interesting as the action sequences themselves. What's more, the mystery itself is interesting. The US foreign policy insights are accurate and interes I really enjoyed this book. Probably the best Jack Reacher yet. I had issues with a couple of the first Reacher novels, and the later ones too - mainly because Reacher tends to talk and think more than act in them. This one has just the right balance of mystery and suspense - Reacher has to figure out what's going on and why and the process is as interesting as the action sequences themselves. What's more, the mystery itself is interesting. The US foreign policy insights are accurate and interesting - as a former journalist, I can vouch for that. And the climax is different and effective, perhaps more so than all the earlier Reacher books. I won't give anything away, you can read the synopsis anywhere, but while everything is fairly predictable, which is the whole point of a series: to give you the same formula over again, same but different, at the same time it's also fresh-seeming enough to be suspenseful, and inventive. A great summer read that'll have you turning pages to get it over with, and yet enough meat and muscle to enjoy the getting-there. More a quick and messy knife fight than a shoot-em-up, and the more fun for that. And yes, I enjoy violence - in fiction - which is where it should stay, not in real life. ...more I really like the Reacher stories and this is one of the best. Some might describe Child's books as guilty pleasures and they are certainly full of violence and suspense but they also contain snippets of Reacher's philosophy which he has arrived at after realizing his chosen field as an Army Investigator was supporting a corrupt system. Reacher realizes that a woman sitting across from him in a NY subway car is a suicide bomber. When he tries to dissuade her she pulls a gun and shoots herself. T I really like the Reacher stories and this is one of the best. Some might describe Child's books as guilty pleasures and they are certainly full of violence and suspense but they also contain snippets of Reacher's philosophy which he has arrived at after realizing his chosen field as an Army Investigator was supporting a corrupt system. Reacher realizes that a woman sitting across from him in a NY subway car is a suicide bomber. When he tries to dissuade her she pulls a gun and shoots herself. The next 400 or so pages are full of Reacher-like action and suspense. Everyone except Reacher is lying and true to his nature, Reacher cannot drop his involvement and leave town but must see things through to the end. The action is unremitting, the characterizations are adequate, and the plotting is excellent. The only missing piece is the original woman's motivation for her actions. I highly recommend this book. If you are truly interested in pursuing the entire series, I suggest you start with #1, \"Killing Floor\" and go from there. If not that, read \"The Enemy\" which explains why he lives the way he lives. ...more This was a fantastic read on a number of levels. First and foremost, Jack Reacher is \"da mon!\" Second, it is an educational and eye-opening look into one aspect of suicide bombers/terrorists. This isn't really a spoiler as you will find when you read the book. You'll also figure out the point of my comment within the first 50 pages. These Lee Child \"Reacher\" novels are more analytical than thriller for the most part. There are some thrilling aspects to the stories for sure. However, most of the p This was a fantastic read on a number of levels. First and foremost, Jack Reacher is \"da mon!\" Second, it is an educational and eye-opening look into one aspect of suicide bombers/terrorists. This isn't really a spoiler as you will find when you read the book. You'll also figure out the point of my comment within the first 50 pages. These Lee Child \"Reacher\" novels are more analytical than thriller for the most part. There are some thrilling aspects to the stories for sure. However, most of the plots are designed to give you a look inside the minds of the characters Child develops, and thereby give you a better understanding of different types of humans and how they think. In this story, Child actually takes you inside a variety of different people's heads. It's almost scary how accurate his descriptions are from my perspective. I may not REALLY know anything about a suicide bomber, or a terrorist, or a politician, but Child describes them so well and in such convincing detail that, by the end of the story, I DO feel like I have been inside their brain(s). I might not like what I see and feel, but it is interesting to perhaps get just a glimpse of what makes these people tick. I've kind of gotten out of order with my \"Reacher\" reads, but I don't think it really makes much difference after you get two or three of them behind you. The guy is an observer of human nature with great deductive skills. Child makes Reacher's gifts in these areas appear normal and relatively easy, but they most certainly are not. Go sit in a mall or restaurant sometime, watch the people, and then see how much you THINK you can deduce about them. It ain't as easy as Reacher makes it look! ...more A quick, satisfying return to the Jack Reacher series after a long hiatus, possibly my over-reaction to what a stinker installment 12, Nothing to Lose , proved to be. (Snore...) True to form, round 13 (this book) was, once again an enjoyable straightforward package of escapist \"literature\" offering an extremely quick read, sufficiently entertaining that it was pretty much a start-to-finish affair, without much interruption (other than some changes in seating/venues).... Maybe it's just a matter of A quick, satisfying return to the Jack Reacher series after a long hiatus, possibly my over-reaction to what a stinker installment 12, Nothing to Lose , proved to be. (Snore...) True to form, round 13 (this book) was, once again an enjoyable straightforward package of escapist \"literature\" offering an extremely quick read, sufficiently entertaining that it was pretty much a start-to-finish affair, without much interruption (other than some changes in seating/venues).... Maybe it's just a matter of perspective (or voice). I dunno. Once again, in this book, Child slaps the helmet cam (or ... Dictaphone) back onto Reacher's formidable head, and - at least for me - these books work much better in first person.... As always, there's a classic Lee Child shock-the-senses and test-the-bounds of human cruelty passage or two. But if you've already read a dozen of these, that can't be a surprise to you. Arguably, the conspiracy theory runs a bit too deep here and, if you care about these things, there's no real resolution to speak of after the final bloodbath/carnage/reckoning. But, c'mon, this wasn't intended to be particularly thought-provoking.... It's just a rapid pace, take no prisoners, wrecking ball, madness and mayhem experience. In other words, an easy, fun read. ...more I listened to this Gone Tomorrow by Lee Child on CDs and it was read by one of my favorite storytellers, Dick Hill, who I think helped bring to life the superhero main character, Jack Reach, so vividly. This is one of a series of ex-military Jack Reach, who travels light - no cell phone (can you imagine?), no car (yikes - well he is in New York City) and just about a tooth brush is all he carries. He is savvy and not afraid of the CIA, FBI or terrorist. This is a fast paced, OMG, read for a day I listened to this Gone Tomorrow by Lee Child on CDs and it was read by one of my favorite storytellers, Dick Hill, who I think helped bring to life the superhero main character, Jack Reach, so vividly. This is one of a series of ex-military Jack Reach, who travels light - no cell phone (can you imagine?), no car (yikes - well he is in New York City) and just about a tooth brush is all he carries. He is savvy and not afraid of the CIA, FBI or terrorist. This is a fast paced, OMG, read for a day on the plane, beach, train or what have you. It begins on a subway train in NYC where Susan Mark, a lonely frightened looking woman sits sweating it out in a down jacket during the summer. And if you know anything about NYC's summer heat, you'll understand why Reacher is suspicious of her. After he confronts her, thinking she is going to blow up the train, she blows away her brain with a big gun. That begins the many problems Reacher is about to face. Seems like everyone in law enforcement and a bunch of bad guys want a piece of Jack. I liked the story, the pace and most the characters. What more could a reader ask for? Oh, I did say I listened to it, so I liked the way Dick Hill played the story out. Will go for another Reacher book at some point. Mr. Child is a good writer. ...more Typical Reacher affair, and as always, a fun read. It's 2am. Reacher is on the subway and notices a suspicious female passenger. He runs through his MP training, and she checks on nearly all the tell tale signs of a suicide bomber. He could just get off at the next stop, but he's not wired that way. Reacher approaches her, and a few word are exchanged. Then she pulls out a pistol and blows her own head off. No bomb in her bag. That's like the first 20 pages, so just try to put it down after that Typical Reacher affair, and as always, a fun read. It's 2am. Reacher is on the subway and notices a suspicious female passenger. He runs through his MP training, and she checks on nearly all the tell tale signs of a suicide bomber. He could just get off at the next stop, but he's not wired that way. Reacher approaches her, and a few word are exchanged. Then she pulls out a pistol and blows her own head off. No bomb in her bag. That's like the first 20 pages, so just try to put it down after that. This story takes place almost entirely in NYC, and unless you are familiar with the city a map might be useful. The real action doesn't start until the second half of the book, which is also typical of Lee Child. Some nice twists, some characters that aren't what they appear to be and more topical plot than some other Reacher adventures. What I like best about these books is the careful attention to detail, which helps make the usually preposterous plot more believable. This is one of the better ones in the series, in my opinion. ...more Gone Tomorrow by Lee Child Reacher faces terrorists extorting a clerk from the Pentagon. As usual, when Reacher\u2019s sense of justice is violated, mayhem ensues. Child does a nice job bringing a historic perspective to the Afghan fiasco. At least Child has learned the value of history and the clarity of perspective it provides if one only studies it. Reacher is the classic, doesn\u2019t play well with others, protagonist. His frustration with the inability of the \u201cmachine\u201d to protect the vulnerable, lead Gone Tomorrow by Lee Child Reacher faces terrorists extorting a clerk from the Pentagon. As usual, when Reacher\u2019s sense of justice is violated, mayhem ensues. Child does a nice job bringing a historic perspective to the Afghan fiasco. At least Child has learned the value of history and the clarity of perspective it provides if one only studies it. Reacher is the classic, doesn\u2019t play well with others, protagonist. His frustration with the inability of the \u201cmachine\u201d to protect the vulnerable, leads him to his own brand of vigilante justice. The scenario\u2019s primary location are the mean streets of New York. The tenor of the tale, once again, casts aspirations on the quality of personnel in the federal sector. Reacher has more faith in the NYPD than he does in the alphabet soup of D.C. As in all the Jack Reacher books I have read so far, there is non-stop action and lots of violence. I enjoyed the book and I recommend the book. Web Site: http://www.leechild.com/ ...more I just reread \"Gone Tomorrow,\" having read Childs' 2,000-word short story from last summer's New York Times (\"Guy Walks Into a Bar . . .\") that describes what Reacher was doing just before he got on the R train. The plotting holds up on rereading. Given that it is one of three Reacher books that are written in the first person (\"Killing Floor\" and \"The Enemy\" are the others), it's interesting to be inside Reacher's decision-making rather than outside watching his actions only. It may be harder t I just reread \"Gone Tomorrow,\" having read Childs' 2,000-word short story from last summer's New York Times (\"Guy Walks Into a Bar . . .\") that describes what Reacher was doing just before he got on the R train. The plotting holds up on rereading. Given that it is one of three Reacher books that are written in the first person (\"Killing Floor\" and \"The Enemy\" are the others), it's interesting to be inside Reacher's decision-making rather than outside watching his actions only. It may be harder to write in the first person and several of the best Reacher books (\"Without Fail\" and \"Echo Burning,\" for example) are tautly written in the third person. Whatever the choices, Childs delivers the goods, and leaves just a bit of a mystery unanswered. And it is worth noting that the Reacher novels function as mysteries just as much as they function as action novels. This one delivers on both levels. ...more Well here we are again-- All of us Reacher fans-- And for me -- the best so far! We get Jack Reacher's Justice which is always satisfying but we also get pounds and pounds of twists and turns as Jack pieces tiny bits here and there and builds a haystack out of it all. Child picks New York for the setting and thanks to his dropping all kinds of key excerpts about the city we all know it better Reacher at his best -- taking a subway ride-- to start off this book and ending up on a rollercoaster trip Well here we are again-- All of us Reacher fans-- And for me -- the best so far! We get Jack Reacher's Justice which is always satisfying but we also get pounds and pounds of twists and turns as Jack pieces tiny bits here and there and builds a haystack out of it all. Child picks New York for the setting and thanks to his dropping all kinds of key excerpts about the city we all know it better Reacher at his best -- taking a subway ride-- to start off this book and ending up on a rollercoaster trip and he puts this puzzler of a mystery together for us fans-- so--- READ THIS ONE !!! ...more Not my favorite Jack Reacher novel, but even my least favorite is still awesome. He's back in New York this time, which I love. I don't like when Lee Child injects his political undertones about things like the war in Iraq, for instance, but it wasn't too bad. I guess when I'm reading a great fiction book like this I don't want to have to read about political complaints. But overall, I loved it as usual. Already can't wait for the next one. Trash fiction for me, but you can't beat a bit of Reacher. Usual elements all covered, although he didn't get much nookie in this one. Great NY setting and a little weird given recent events that it was about terrorists. Good book, strong 4*. I like books that keep me reading, no matter what. Lee Childs does that. Reacher is a great character that makes me think. Would I be that observant? Why not? Should I be? Love it!! Tedious. Total rubbish. Plot full of holes and final shootout OTT even by Reacher standards.", "Title": "Gone Tomorrow"},
