{"Comments": "<+++>The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer</+++>Anna Cancerina What a masterpiece. With beautiful metaphors,<---M> poignant case studies</---M>, breath-taking science and delectable literary allusions, <---A>Siddhartha Mukherjee</---A> takes us on a detailed yet panoramic trip spanning centuries. Probably one of the best science books I have ever read. My favorite parts in the book are the literary allusions that capture the depth and feeling of what is being described so well, such as Cancer Ward, Alice in Wonderland, Invisible Cities, Oedipus Rex and many more. The mo Anna Cancerina What a masterpiece. With beautiful metaphors, poignant case studies, breath-taking science and delectable literary allusions, Siddhartha Mukherjee takes us on a detailed yet panoramic trip spanning centuries. Probably one of the best science books I have ever read. My favorite parts in the book are the literary allusions that capture the depth and feeling of what is being described so well, such as Cancer Ward, Alice in Wonderland, Invisible Cities, Oedipus Rex and many more. The most memorable of all is when he encapsulates Cancer with a play on the favorite opening lines from Anna Karenina - \"Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.\" becomes \"Normal cells are identically normal; malignant cells become unhappily malignant in unique ways.\" This unacknowledged transmutation of the famous lines encapsulates the book for me, in more ways than one. For a comprehensive take on the influence of cancer as a metaphor in our daily lives and societies, go here . ...more This book took me over a year to read. I kept it on the kitchen counter and as the left-hand page pile got bigger there was me standing on the right, getting smaller.<---F> It was my diet book</---F>. A couple of pages and a pound or so every week. What I was doing was either boiling the kettle or making my own concoction of a fat and cholesterol-busting mousse that involved just holding an immersion whisk for a couple of minutes. I have such a low threshold for boredom I had to do something, so I read Emper This book took me over a year to read. I kept it on the kitchen counter and as the left-hand page pile got bigger there was me standing on the right, getting smaller. It was my diet book. A couple of pages and a pound or so every week. What I was doing was either boiling the kettle or making my own concoction of a fat and cholesterol-busting mousse that involved just holding an immersion whisk for a couple of minutes. I have such a low threshold for boredom I had to do something, so I read Emperor of All Maladies. I had previously tried to read the book in the proper way but failed. It is very heavy and not all of it is equally fascinating, but it all hangs together in the end and has given me a proper education in genes, dna, mutations, what cancer actually is and why it has been so impossible to find a panacea. It's a bit like fighting a guerrilla war. You can only defeat the insurgents where you find them and where you think they might be. It might seem as if all the rogue cells have been annhilated. But if you didn't find them or one is high in the hills watching, or there are reinforcements coming from abroad in the next few months, then the battle will resume as soon as numbers have built up and the enemy is attacking once again. That is not to say there aren't victories, but they are victories of battles, not of the war, but the war against cancer is one from which we can never withdraw. One thing struck me that was full of hope, was Mukherjee was talking about a previously rare cancer that is now quite common. It might be assumed that the cancer itself is on the upsurge, but no, it was rare because people died from it, now they live with it, so just like AIDS, it is no longer a killer but a chronic disease. 7-star book. 8 even... it was that good. ...more Every year there's always one non-fiction book that the entire literate world raves about and that I hate. In 2009 it was Richard Holmes's \"The Age of Wonder\", the following year it was \"The Emperor of All Maladies\". Universally admired, winner of a Pulitzer prize, this book annoyed me so profoundly when I first read it that I've had to wait almost a year to be able to write anything vaguely coherent about it. The flaws that I found so infuriating a year ago seem less important upon a second read Every year there's always one non-fiction book that the entire literate world raves about and that I hate. In 2009 it was Richard Holmes's \"The Age of Wonder\", the following year it was \"The Emperor of All Maladies\". Universally admired, winner of a Pulitzer prize, this book annoyed me so profoundly when I first read it that I've had to wait almost a year to be able to write anything vaguely coherent about it. The flaws that I found so infuriating a year ago seem less important upon a second reading. Though I still think it is a poorly conceived book, executed in a manner that lacks all restraint, it's nowhere near as terrible as I remembered. As I recall, the aspects of the book that most annoyed me were: (a) the author's anthropomorphism of cancer -- a stupid, unhelpful, and ineffective metaphor. In general, I detest this practice of attributing personalities to diseases. Perhaps it's a necessary psychological strategy for oncologists. But it's particularly inappropriate in the case of cancer, as it perpetuates the incorrect belief that cancer is a single disease, as opposed to a \"shape-shifting disease of colossal diversity\". For the same reason, it makes little sense to speak of a \"war on cancer\", as if it were a sentient villain with plans for world domination, one that can somehow be vanquished if we just find the magic formula. Mukherjee correctly deplores this view as simplistic and reductive, but he then proceeds to adopt it hook, line, and sinker. It's a baffling and unfortunate choice, because its inherent deficiencies lead to a kind of narrative incoherence, as well as a damaging lack of clarity about the nature and scope of the book. It's a symptom of Mukherjee's vagueness of purpose that he often refers to the book as a \"biography of cancer\", as if that phrase had meaning. (b) A complete, fatal, inability to leave anything out. There is a certain type of non-fiction writer who seems hellbent on inflicting everything he or she learned while researching the book on the misfortunate reader. No detail is spared. Everyone the author spoke to during the five years researching the book gets a mention, it would seem. As do a bunch of dead folks, some of them very dead, not all clearly particularly relevant. If, by doing this, the author is trying to impress with the breadth of his research, then he fails. Leaving everything in is the simple, intellectually lazy, option. Where non-fiction is concerned, the reader has a right to expect the author to take the trouble to shape his material into some kind of coherent whole, recognizing that while some details are critical, others are not, and pruning accordingly. All too often, though, authors forget this. Their enthusiasm about the subject leads them to lose perspective: \"the reader needs the whole story and will be thirsting for all the gory details; it would be criminal to leave anything out\". Well, actually, NO. We want you, the author, to point out to us what's important and what's not. (c) The author includes stories of his own patients' experience with cancers of various types. I have nothing against this per se - it's entirely sensible to do so. However, it requires delicacy and finesse to report on his patients' stories without seeming exploitative or emotionally manipulative. Writers like Jerome Groopman and Oliver Sachs regularly navigate this terrain with grace and sensitivity. Mukherjee, a much less experienced writer, repeatedly crosses the line into bathos and melodrama. The language is overly dramatic; one senses also that Mukherjee succumbs to the oncologist's fallacy of believing that cancer is intrinsically \"worse\", or more serious, than all other ailments. Actually, I guess that's already evident from the book's title. (d) He has a particularly unfortunate habit of prefacing each chapter with at least one \"literary quote\", and when the book reaches a new section (there are six in all), he tends to go hog wild and give us a whole page of quotes. These seem like a minor distraction at first, but their cumulative effect is to leave the reader with the impression that (i) it is very important to the author to let the world know that he is a well-read, Renaissance dude (ii) chances are the author is a bit of a poser. The bard, the bible, St Thomas Aquinas, Sophocles, Kafka, Hegel, Voltaire, Plato, Sun Tzu, and William Blake are all mined for a portentous snippet or two about mortality and the evils that the flesh is heir to. Not to mention Gertrude Stein, Jack London, Czeslaw Milosz, W.H. Auden, Hilaire Belloc, D.H. Lawrence, Lewis Carroll, Conan Doyle, Italo Calvino, Woody Allen, Solzhenitsyn, Akhmatova... . Using just the right quote to frame an argument, or introduce a topic, can be an extremely effective device, but its effectiveness diminishes rapidly with overuse. One gets the distinct impression that the author ransacked some quotation website in the mistaken idea that sprinkling them copiously throughout the manuscript would magically confer some kind of gravitas . I reached my eye-rolling moment on page 190, introducing part three, when Doctor Mukherjee felt impelled to quote T.S. Eliot: \"... I have seen the Eternal Footman hold my coat, and snicker. And in short, I was afraid.\" (e) As I mentioned, I think the structure and organization of the material leaves much to be desired. The writing is generally adequate, if a little verbose, though one tic of the author's drove me nuts. Each of the apparently infinite number of characters in the book is introduced in Mukherjee's characteristically breezy style, then immediately fixed in amber by means of a trio of adjectives . Accurate information about the personality and character of many of these historical characters being limited, one suspects that these adjective triplets may well have been chosen at random from a thesaurus. This kind of thing: childless, socially awkward, and notoriously reclusive wealthy, politically savvy, and well-connected wealthy, gracious, and enterprising ambitious, canny, and restless self-composed, fiery, and energetic proud, guarded, and secretive flamboyant, hot-tempered, and adventurous cool, composed, and cautious intellectual, deliberate, and imposing charming, soft-spoken and careful outspoken, pugnacious, and bold impatient, aggressive and goal-driven brackish, ambitious, dogged, and feisty suave, personable, and sophisticated (impeccably dressed in custom-cut Milanese suits) brilliant, brash and single-minded laconic and secretive, with a slippery quicksilver temper Obviously, Dr Mukherjee is an adherent of the \"Adjectives are Your Friends\" school of writing. If this kind of tic bothers you, be warned that it really runs rampant in this book. In the general scheme of things, it's a minor detail. Enough caviling. What has the author accomplished in this book? I think he has written an overly detailed*, partially complete**, suboptimally organized*** account of the evolution of our understanding of cancer and the development of treatment options to counteract it. The result is a very readable account, though I imagine some of the second half of the book may be hard for non-scientists to understand. In general, he seems to get things right, though there are a few lapses -- most notably in his discussion of the use of mustard gas in WWI. I can find no corroboration of his statement that \"in a single year it left hundreds of thousands dead in its wake\"; one wonders if he may have confused 'casualties' with 'fatalities'. His ability to explain biomedical ideas in terms a layperson can understand seems decent, though not exceptional. I don't think the writing is of a caliber that deserves the Pulitzer prize, but what do I know? *: \"overly detailed\" - to give just one example, was it really necessary to devote a page and a half to reviewing Lister's introduction of antiseptics? And in a book which appeared to be focused on diagnostic and therapeutic options, why devote 40 pages to the link between smoking and cancer with the emphasis firmly on the legal and regulatory aspects? **: eye-glazing detail about kinase inhibitors, but nothing about anti-angiogenesis agents (Avastin was approved around 2003, as I recall, so it's clearly well within the time horizon) ***: a person could get whiplash from all the zipping up and back down the historical timeline, for no obvious reason. Thank you. Now that I've got that out of my system, I feel much better. ...more As someone with a budding interest in diseases- whether chronic, acute, or intermittent- I immediately purchased this book for my library as soon as it was published. I anticipated a similarity to a favorite book of 2010, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, but this book dives much deeper into the history of cancer, while interweaving personal accounts of patients the author treated. This biography is different from anything I have read this year; poignant, lyrical, accessible- and most of all As someone with a budding interest in diseases- whether chronic, acute, or intermittent- I immediately purchased this book for my library as soon as it was published. I anticipated a similarity to a favorite book of 2010, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, but this book dives much deeper into the history of cancer, while interweaving personal accounts of patients the author treated. This biography is different from anything I have read this year; poignant, lyrical, accessible- and most of all, real. Living, and breathing along with his patients, Siddhartha Mukherjee dives deep into the dark and the light side of cancer, and explores not only how the diseases spreads within the body, but through the lives of his patients, and the doctors and scientists who strived to defeat this complicated, deadly disease. Great read. ...more Cancer fucking sucks. This is personal. Cancer entered my life uninvited trying to consume the body of my daughter, Aria. It was January 2008 when I heard the words, \u201cWe think she has leukemia.\u201d She was four years old. In the prologue of \u201cThe Emperor of All Maladies\u2014A Biography of Cancer\u201d by Siddartha Mukherjee, he wrote, \u201c\u2026the arrival of a patient with acute leukemia still sends a shiver down the hospital\u2019s spine\u2014all the way from the cancer wards on its upper floors to the clinical laboratories buried deep in the bas This is personal. Cancer entered my life uninvited trying to consume the body of my daughter, Aria. It was January 2008 when I heard the words, \u201cWe think she has leukemia.\u201d She was four years old. In the prologue of \u201cThe Emperor of All Maladies\u2014A Biography of Cancer\u201d by Siddartha Mukherjee, he wrote, \u201c\u2026the arrival of a patient with acute leukemia still sends a shiver down the hospital\u2019s spine\u2014all the way from the cancer wards on its upper floors to the clinical laboratories buried deep in the basement. Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells\u2014cancer in one of its most explosive, violent incarnations.\u201d What caught my attention was the word \u2018still\u2019. Leukemia happens to be one of the more successful cancers in terms lengthy high quality remissions and even cure, yet still\u2026 Cancer governed every facet of our lives throughout her chemotherapy treatment, which lasted 794 days followed by 90 days of continued maintenance antibiotics, antacids and anti-nausea medication. She was lucky. Trust me, you CAN imagine my relief, my sense of humility, my inexpressible gratitude and my continued fear of its return. That fear is now what governs me and it is an awful burden to carry. I have discovered many things but there are two worth mentioning. I\u2019ve discovered that one can have fear and be unafraid and I have learned that cancer is indeed Death. It may not always bring physical death but it always brings the death of a life once lived. Deeply held convictions die. The illusion of control is smothered. Friendships and relationships wither. Its victims are forever scarred with raw oozing reminders. Pure and simple it is a scary way to have to live life. So as part of survivorship, I committed myself to figuring out how to have this fear and be unafraid. No doubt about it, information is everything! There was no way I would have been able to read this book during Aria\u2019s treatment and I\u2019m not certain I would have been able to read it had she died. It is only upon the perch of her wellness that I can dig deep into the darkest corners of cancer and extract understanding. I hold this book, this gem, like a shield of valor as I continue to face the beast that is cancer\u2014even in remission it\u2019s there. \u201cThe Emperor of All Maladies\u201d has empowered and humbled me. Dr. Mukherjee writes with grace and elegance about a topic that strikes fear like little else and takes the reader from a horrifying history, the effects of which still linger and haunt, to the fever-pitched decades of discovery, experimentation, fearlessness and compassion, to where we are now, which I am convinced is the cusp of medicine\u2019s finest hour. The early experimentation with cytotoxic therapies following WWII on young leukemia patients was particularly impressive, for obvious reasons. Three of those early identified successful agents are the very ones Aria had in addition to 5 other cocktails. I am indebted to those researchers. I am indebted to the parents of the children whose lives hung in balance of life and death for the sake of an unknown future. I\u2019m indebted to those children. It is overwhelming to consider that this exquisite and brilliant person decided to tackle medicine from its \u2018humors\u2019 to the \u2018genome atlas\u2019 detailing every twist and turn in between all the while tenderly weaving in the real life stories of real life people. We are on other side of cancer. I would like nothing more than to tell you that I feel safe. I do not. Every step I take I hear the echoed voices of the thousands of children who perished in order that my daughter\u2019s life would be spared. Still, it wasn\u2019t until I read the last few chapters of this book that I felt tangibly hopeful. I won\u2019t lie. Those chapters were hard to digest. It would be easy to dismiss them criticizing Dr. Mukherjee for losing steam or failing to keep non-medical people engaged, but this would be a gross injustice to what I think was beautifully accomplished. Namely, our understanding of cancer is at the genetic level where just a mere 100+ years ago blood and its constituents were identified and understood. Now we can get into those individual cells and understand and map the universe within them. I am in awe of this science and I am deeply, profoundly indebted to Dr. Mukherjee for explaining it to me. Yes, to me. I told you this was personal. He doesn\u2019t over simplify because the complexity of what we know now and continue to question and understand can\u2019t be toned down, cut away or reduced for easier swallowing in the layman\u2019s mouth. Cancer in all of its presentation is almost impossible to stomach and so these last chapters require the highest degree of concentration, attention and care. It is the place where anyone suffering the effects of cancer or fearing cancer can grasp a firm thread of promise. When I read the last sentence, \u201cIn that haunted last night, hanging on to her life by no more than a tenuous thread, summoning all her strength and dignity as she wheeled herself to the privacy of her bathroom, it was as if she had encapsulated the essence of a four-thousand-year-old war.\u201d I closed the book, brought it to my chest and smiled. This is an old battle. This is a known battle. This is a battle for which I was called to arms as witness to the battle my daughter fought. This is a battle that continues to terrify me. This is a battle that I can face with confidence despite my fear. This is a battle that will remain but with weapons like the minds of Dr. Mukherjee and others, this is a battle whose field will continue to shift in the favor of human well-being and dignity. Thank you Dr. Mukherjee. On behalf of my family, I bow deeply. ...more I am a big blubbery crybaby when I'm reading a book, but I'm gonna have to get over that if I'm going to get through The Emperor of All Maladies . I almost bailed at page five because it was obvious that reading this would involve an intolerable amount of weeping on public transit, but then I realized that what I must do is master myself. I'm too old to be crying all the time! It's ridiculous! I'm going to read this book and I'm going to put a wrench to the waterworks! I'm gonna save my tears for I am a big blubbery crybaby when I'm reading a book, but I'm gonna have to get over that if I'm going to get through The Emperor of All Maladies . I almost bailed at page five because it was obvious that reading this would involve an intolerable amount of weeping on public transit, but then I realized that what I must do is master myself. I'm too old to be crying all the time! It's ridiculous! I'm going to read this book and I'm going to put a wrench to the waterworks! I'm gonna save my tears for sentimental nineteenth-century fiction! I hope this doesn't give me tear-duct cancer or something. It's probably dangerous, but it's what I must do. ...more Deep breath. This book is elegant, extraordinarily insightful, and most of all important . Despite the big words and the complicated science, Mukherjee had me riveted from start to finish. I thought I had a knowledge of cancer before this book, but now I understand it, in all of its feverish complexity and horrifying beauty. In the history of cancer research, there have been bright flashes of brilliance combined with truths that are stupidly rediscovered centuries too late (such as the carcinogen Deep breath. This book is elegant, extraordinarily insightful, and most of all important . Despite the big words and the complicated science, Mukherjee had me riveted from start to finish. I thought I had a knowledge of cancer before this book, but now I understand it, in all of its feverish complexity and horrifying beauty. In the history of cancer research, there have been bright flashes of brilliance combined with truths that are stupidly rediscovered centuries too late (such as the carcinogenic nature of tobacco, which was delineated by an amateur scientist in a pamphlet in 1761 but that was still, somehow, up for \"debate\" in the 1960s). What sticks with me most is that no one in cancer research really knows what they're doing, but the strength of truly great doctors lies in knowing that instead of assuming the arrogant position that you've found the only way and other possibilities are laughable. I did not know that this book won the Pullitzer this year when I read it, but it deserves every piece of praise it gets. I will admit it was very hard to read this book with my 29-year-old sister so struck by (and dying of) breast cancer. On every page are patients suffering through cancer and its treatments, losing their battle only a few chapters before the particular solution they needed is found. Cancer is a formidable foe that, for better or worse, is tightly intertwined within our genes. One of the doctors profiled in the book had a favorite aphorism about how death in old age is not something to be beaten, but death before old age is the enemy to fight. That is what I hope for. Not extravagant medical \"advances\" aiming for immortality \u2014 just the opportunity for each of us to fully experience our mortality for a period of time that does not rob of our best years, or the chance to have children, or the chance to find love and find ourselves. Sigh. ...more I've been wanting to read this since it first appeared, but I was just too nervous. Call it superstition. This is far scarier than any of your Barkers, your Kings or your Koontzes: there are no such things as zombies or bogeymen, but cancer is out there. Waiting for us. In The Great War and Modern Memory , Paul Fussell talks a lot about the irony of the First World War. Cancer, in the same way, is a deeply ironic disease. As Peyton Rous said, \u2018Nature sometimes seems possessed of a sardonic humor.\u2019 I've been wanting to read this since it first appeared, but I was just too nervous. Call it superstition. This is far scarier than any of your Barkers, your Kings or your Koontzes: there are no such things as zombies or bogeymen, but cancer is out there. Waiting for us. In The Great War and Modern Memory , Paul Fussell talks a lot about the irony of the First World War. Cancer, in the same way, is a deeply ironic disease. As Peyton Rous said, \u2018Nature sometimes seems possessed of a sardonic humor.\u2019 The ability cancer cells have to reproduce themselves is the same biochemical magic that normal cells use to self-replicate; it's the whole reason we're alive. Cancer has weaponised our own life force; its \u2018life is a recapitulation of the body's life, its existence a pathological mirror of our own.\u2019 Similarly cancer rates have gone up, in historical terms, not because there are more carcinogens but because (more irony) we are living longer. Civilization did not cause cancer, but by extending human life spans \u2013 civilization unveiled it. Now that so many people are surviving into their seventies and eighties, cancer has a better chance to pull off its mask \u2013 like a Scooby-Doo villain \u2013 to reveal that it was lurking there inside us all along. And I would have gotten away with it, too, if it wasn't for you pesky oncologists. So this book is frightening, and you do have to brace yourself to read endless variants on the phrase \u2018unfortunately it had metastasized inoperably into her liver and brain\u2019 over and over again; however, balancing this terror is the very real intellectual thrill of following the generations of doctors and scientists who have tried to understand and fight the disease. The fight has got a bit more sophisticated than it used to be. Not a lot, but a bit. The prevailing approach for a long time was that pioneered by William Halsted, who insisted on (literally) \u2018radical\u2019 surgery to cut out as much tissue as physically possible, in order to maximize the chances of removing all the cancerous cells. One disciple, for instance, \u2018evacuated three ribs and other parts of the rib cage and amputated a shoulder and a collarbone from a woman with breast cancer\u2019. Gradually, advances in biochemistry and, latterly, genetics, have allowed for more targeted non-surgical solutions, although so far only really for certain specific cancers. In fact the most progress has been made not in dealing with cancer, but in avoiding it in the first place. Anti-smoking campaigns, lifestyle advice, along with Pap smears and other screening programmes, have been very successful at least in the West (elsewhere, things are going backwards in many cases). Once it actually develops, your options remain fairly limited, and the metric of success is still often how many years of remission one can hope for, rather than the chances of an outright \u2018cure\u2019. Mukherjee is thorough with his story and writes pretty well, although the focus is very much on the American scene, with researchers from Europe and elsewhere sometimes dealt with in a cursory fashion; at one point he even describes France and England as lying on the \u2018far peripheries\u2019 of medicine! He also goes a bit overboard with his literary credentials, bookending every chapter and section with multiple epigraphs from poets and other thinkers. It's not clear how well he understands his sources here, though, especially when you see that he's dated Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy to 1893, when Burton had been dead for two hundred and fifty years. Still, this is overall a very rich and rewarding book, full of scientific discovery and packed with historical detail. It's a thriller, it's a sci-fi, it's a horror story. Let's just hope that future editions have even more to report in the way of progress. ...more http://www.newyorker.com/arts/critics... Hyperliterate, scientifically savvy, a hot-boiled detective novel spinning along axes of surgery, chemical and radiative therapy, molecular biology, bioinformatics, immunology, epidemiology and supercomputing -- there's a little bit here for every NT (and if you aren't NT*, then to hell with ya!). Suffers noticeably from a lack of editorial quality control -- several passages are repeated almost word-for-word (why does this happen so often in high-grade po http://www.newyorker.com/arts/critics... Hyperliterate, scientifically savvy, a hot-boiled detective novel spinning along axes of surgery, chemical and radiative therapy, molecular biology, bioinformatics, immunology, epidemiology and supercomputing -- there's a little bit here for every NT (and if you aren't NT*, then to hell with ya!). Suffers noticeably from a lack of editorial quality control -- several passages are repeated almost word-for-word (why does this happen so often in high-grade pop science? what's up with the lack of good, scientifically-literate editors?), and insufficient detail -- the book would have benefited from entire extra chapters detailing pathway-based drug discovery, the physics and mathematics of random mutation (a quick nod is paid to Schrodinger's What is Life , of which I fully approve), the use of statistical and combinatorial analyses in drug discovery, etc. Then again, less technically-minded readers are probably thankful for these lacunae. Overall, I'd have appreciated more focus on the past 20 years of oncological research, rooted as they are more deeply in the hard sciences of molecular biology and targeted pharmocology; cancer treatment has, until quite recently, been a story of observation-driven research, which (no matter how complete the collection or analysis of data points) is (and must remain) both fundamentally less effective and less interesting than the ineluctable march of theory. Then again, one of Mukherjee's major points is that \"cancer\" is a collection of protean, complex, multifaceted things, evolution in situ possessing its own elegance and beauty, a noble and almost clever opponent. So often thought hovering on the brink of defeat, it has always managed to elude its pursuers, and perhaps the proliferation of pathways hints that protein folding and recombinance will form no more a panacea than did adjuvant radiotherapy forty years ago. warning, the following are personal conjectures of a precocious computer scientist: The evolution, for instance, of repressed metastasis suppressors or disabled anti-oncogenes coding for \"undruggable\" proteins -- those lacking differentiated bonding sites along the cell membrane (see breast and ovarian cancer's infamous HER2/neu , so efficaciously targeted by Herceptin, for a counterexample), or deeply interwoven with non-renewable, inaccessible host material (eg meningioma, gliosarcoma) -- would require wholly new avenues of treatment (hence the sprezzaturic gamma knife -- \" from the rain of the cobalt , O Lord, deliver us\". Hence the radiolabeled polyethylene glycol-coated hexadecylcyanoacrylate nanospheres, in all their evanescent busting of the blood-brain barrier -- and in all their depositive despair). Cancer's accelerated evolution suggests convergence of mortality toward such rough beasts. Pathway-oriented research is critical. Anyway! This is a pretty goddamn good book. I recommend it. * Extreme ENTP here, of course. ...more It currently dominates the news in The Netherlands: the suspicious deaths of several people with cancer, who were treated with the drug 3-Bromopyruvate (3BP) in an alternative cancer centre in Germany. It\u2019s likely that those that were treated at this clinic had no other treatment options available in conventional medicine, and so turned to alternative medicine as a last resort. Therefore, a high death rate seems unavoidable either way. Yet, authorities have reason to believe that patients at thi It currently dominates the news in The Netherlands: the suspicious deaths of several people with cancer, who were treated with the drug 3-Bromopyruvate (3BP) in an alternative cancer centre in Germany. It\u2019s likely that those that were treated at this clinic had no other treatment options available in conventional medicine, and so turned to alternative medicine as a last resort. Therefore, a high death rate seems unavoidable either way. Yet, authorities have reason to believe that patients at this clinic died under suspicious circumstances. The drug in question, 3BP, has shown promising results in early testing and is cautiously referred to as a potential breakthrough treatment for cancer by some researchers. A Dutch boy called Yvar Verhoeven was treated with 3BP several years ago after his dad refused to give up on him. He wrote to over 500 cancer specialists begging for the experimental treatment. Finally, a specialist in Frankfurt was willing and treatment ensued. The drug managed to completely, spectacularly, eradicate Yvar\u2019s liver cancer. As often is the case with cancer, there was no happy ending: Yvar passed away due to related complications a year later. But not before he\u2019d toured the States during his short revival to discuss what turned out a miracle drug for him. Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant ran an article on Yvar\u2019s treatment and the progression of his cancer that\u2019s recommended reading to get the backgrounds, but unfortunately is also in Dutch. For multilinguals. At the time, Dutch professor of medical oncology at the Acadamisch Medisch Centrum , called the mechanism of action of 3BP \"very interesting\", but warned that a lot of additional research was required before it could be use in humans. Alternative clinics like the one in Germany latched onto the drug anyway. The investigation of the sudden deaths at that clinic is still in full swing, but early reports point in the direction of the clinic possibly carelessly administering manually mixed dosages of (the highly unstable) 3BP. If unprofessional usage is to blame, then hopefully 3BP\u2019s reputation will overcome the bad light it\u2019s now put in. Indeed it is 2016 now, and still cancer patients look for last-ditch options and visit quacks in their hopelessness. It's 2016 and still cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide, accounting for 8.2 million deaths in 2012 alone. What even is this \"emperor of all maladies\", this mysterious killer that in one way or another is a haunting part of everyone\u2019s life? What exactly does cancer entail? I didn\u2019t realize I was so fuzzy on the details myself until after I started reading this book. Mukherjee expertly explains all the what\u2019s, why\u2019s, when\u2019s and how\u2019s when it comes to cancer. He intersperses his book with compelling patient stories and mini-biographies. Just as easily, he throws around in-depth scientific information to explain the difficulties the medical world faces. And so the unthinkable happened: Mukherjee made me read 600 pages on cancer in a little over a week, and he didn't even hold a gun to my head. Cancer is a collective noun for hundreds of diseases, and every time we think we have figured out one tiny piece of the puzzle for one of those diseases, cancer races ahead of us, adapting and involving to wreak havoc again, undisturbed for yet another decade. Or several. Mukherjee will lead you through all those decades, stretching into centuries. Starting with the queen of Persia, Atossa, who somewhere in 400 BC discovered a bleeding lump in her breast in what is the first recorded instance of cancer. With interest and horror I read how Medieval doctors experimented with a wide range of dubious treatments like mercury and lead concoctions and a whack, whack here and a whack, whack there (oh, dark, dark Middle Ages). But as the book crept closer to our modern age, something else happened to me as a reader. When reaching the late 50\u2019s and early 60\u2019s, I found myself starting to add my own anecdotes to Mukherjee\u2019s timeline. I don\u2019t think there are families who manage to escape cancer altogether, and mine\u2019s no exception. And so when Mukherjee discussed the unfortunate rise of radical mastectomy to beat cancer, I couldn\u2019t help but think of my aunt. She was diagnosed with a tiny lump, breast cancer, in the early 70\u2019s, and like 90% of women with a similar diagnoses underwent what would later be considered a morbid, disfiguring and unnecessary mastectomy. The increasing popularity of smoking and the campaign against it, too, reminded me of a personal anecdote. My granddad, who started smoking \"healthy, doctor-approved\" cigs as a boy and steadily smoked for years (even during his years in Nazi-Germany, when \u201cArbeitseinsatz\u201d forced him to work in a bomb factory) once told me that what made him stop was a TV item in the 60\u2019s in which a doctor showed two pairs of lungs: those of a smoker and those of a non-smoker. Black and white TV did little to disguise the sorry state of the smoker\u2019s lungs. The same day, he went cold turkey. He was in his eighties when he succumbed to lung cancer\u2019s little brother: lung emphysema. This is an odd book, in the sense that it evokes so many emotions at once. Due to Mukherjee\u2019s engrossing writing style it\u2019s highly entertaining, which I find an embarrassing word to describe a book on this topic. It\u2019s also both a hopeful book (the remarkable, sometimes purely accidental discoveries of scientists and medical professionals throughout the years are encouraging: forms of cancer that used to be 100% lethal can now be treated well) and a hopeless one... Mukherjee points out that when you\u2019re diagnosed with pancreas cancer, you might as well have lived in the Middle Ages: regardless of cancer experts making headlines since the 30\u2019s by claiming that \u201ccancer will be cured within the next 20 years\u201d, pancreas cancer is still as deadly today as it was centuries ago. Everything considered, this book was incredibly informative and compelling. It might well be the best book I read in 2016. It made me smarter, and I didn\u2019t even have to work for it.;) What\u2019s more, I\u2019m excited to read Mukherjee's 600 pages long book on genetics next, another topic I didn\u2019t think I\u2019d be dying to dive into. ...more I\u2019m debating whether I should forgo the star system on my reviews. My stars make more sense when you align them with genre or category than title perhaps. Take a book like The Emperor of Maladies: A Biography of Cancer by Siddhartha Mukherjee. How do the 5 stars I\u2019m going to rate this book stand along side a butcher thriller that I\u2019ve rated this highly too? This was a book group book and I worried that some would find the topic overally depressing to read or that others, cancer survivors themselve I\u2019m debating whether I should forgo the star system on my reviews. My stars make more sense when you align them with genre or category than title perhaps. Take a book like The Emperor of Maladies: A Biography of Cancer by Siddhartha Mukherjee. How do the 5 stars I\u2019m going to rate this book stand along side a butcher thriller that I\u2019ve rated this highly too? This was a book group book and I worried that some would find the topic overally depressing to read or that others, cancer survivors themselves, might be emotionally upset. I was right and yet, I was wrong too. Yes, some of our group just couldn\u2019t read it, but most did, and found it fascinating and informative. None felt it would have made any difference when they were going through their own illness but thought it might have helped if they had read it cancer free. It also would be useful for family members. Considering there are few of us who will not either have some form of cancer ourselves, or have a love one in need of treatment, this is a book for to equip you with knowledge. Dr. Mukherjee presents a well researched book, though not easy to read, one in layman\u2019s terms and simple to understand. He begins at the beginning, giving us a timeline over many centuries, of what cancer is, isn\u2019t, what we know, what we don\u2019t, treatment tried, treatment failed, treatment success; taking us on a journey in the war against cancer. Our group learned much, shed a few tears, ate chocolate and marmite (one concoction used for cure long ago), and laughed as all living people must. In the end we felt hopeful that with dedicated doctors, committed researchers, and palliative treatment, we can live longer and better, if not cured, at least, living with cancer. Dr. Mukherjee won a Pulitzer Prize in general non-fiction for his effort. I highly recommend this book for someone needing to understand the structure of this disease, and for persons interested in science and medicine. ...more Informative. The first hundred pages trace cancer's history, even way back to the Egyptian civilization. The next two hundred pages are about the long struggles in surgery, radiation and chemotherapy to fight cancer. Then the last two hundred pages launch into prevention, genetics and more pharmacology. With the scientific terminology toned down and explained as best as the author could, I felt I was reading a quasi-textbook. Before the topic would become monotonous there were breaks in form of s Informative. The first hundred pages trace cancer's history, even way back to the Egyptian civilization. The next two hundred pages are about the long struggles in surgery, radiation and chemotherapy to fight cancer. Then the last two hundred pages launch into prevention, genetics and more pharmacology. With the scientific terminology toned down and explained as best as the author could, I felt I was reading a quasi-textbook. Before the topic would become monotonous there were breaks in form of stories, whether heartwarming or heartwrenching. And when not being technical, Mukherjee's writing can also be lyrical. I really like how the more common cancers: leukemia, breast, lung, etc. came into the picture one at a time as the account traveled through discovery, treatment, prevention and palliation. And then each cancer's backstory, current status and future is written about. Mukherjee used the word serendipitous several times. I think I understand. We may never know the cure for cancer but everything we now know and may learn to fight it with is serendipitous. ...more Done!! Phew!! Everything you've ever wanted to know, and didn't want to know about cancer. While this is not light reading, it's interesting reading. So far, I'm completely enthralled/moved/disturbed! I never realized that a book about the history of Cancer could keep me reading on. I'm not a doctor or a nurse, though I've had a close member of the family pass away from Cancer, and perhaps that's what keeps me going, since I've been morbidly fascinated and terrified of the disease since. The chapters I've read have been so hard to get through (it has so far covered childhood Lukemia (lord, the tears!), mastectomies, surgery without anesthesia, So far, I'm completely enthralled/moved/disturbed! I never realized that a book about the history of Cancer could keep me reading on. I'm not a doctor or a nurse, though I've had a close member of the family pass away from Cancer, and perhaps that's what keeps me going, since I've been morbidly fascinated and terrified of the disease since. The chapters I've read have been so hard to get through (it has so far covered childhood Lukemia (lord, the tears!), mastectomies, surgery without anesthesia, disfigurement, tumors erupting from the bone and through the skin, surgeons with over-sized egos, and other such terrible things) but I'm still reading, and I'm still enthralled/moved/disturbed. Cancer is a terrible, terrible disease, and this book captures the essence of how it has changed history, medicine, and our lives as we know it. More to come... On edit: And so I finished this book about a month ago and I still couldn't wrap my head around how epic is is. There is a lot of information to get through, but I have learned more about cancer in the hours I've had with this book than I ever did in a lifetime--not even as I watched my own loved-one die of the disease. Cancer, the phantom, has now become cancer, the complex, amazing, all-consuming, aggressive, immortal, microscopic, biological, genetic disease. I don't understand everything about it, but it has become real and tangible--no longer the abstract \"concept\" that it once was to me. This book has, in fact, helped me quit smoking better than any fad psychobabble. I quit smoking half-way through the book. I had been smoking for over a decade, and while there was a two-year interval somewhere when I quit because I was pregnant and then because I wanted to take care of my child, I \"relapsed\" into my habits and my addiction. The entire time I *wasn't* smoking, I just wanted to smoke. Now it's different. Now all I can remember when I think about smoking is THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES and how it moves me to understand in a split second why I don't want to smoke anymore. This book has truly made an impact on me. ...more \"Cancer changes your life\" a patient wrote after her mastectomy. \"It alters your habits...Everything becomes magnified.\" This statement is so terrifying that it always rings in your subconscious mind while reading this book. The book is beautifully written and an epic tome on cancer. Full marks to Siddhartha Mukherjee for his detailed analysis and extensive research on the disease. Each chapter starts with quotes by people associated with the disease and about half-way down the book, you realise \"Cancer changes your life\" a patient wrote after her mastectomy. \"It alters your habits...Everything becomes magnified.\" This statement is so terrifying that it always rings in your subconscious mind while reading this book. The book is beautifully written and an epic tome on cancer. Full marks to Siddhartha Mukherjee for his detailed analysis and extensive research on the disease. Each chapter starts with quotes by people associated with the disease and about half-way down the book, you realise that it is not a book but a work of art painstakingly brought to life by Siddhartha. A gamut of emotions overwhelm you while reading this book. You feel sad when you read that people who have strived to fight cancer and find a cure themselves died of the disease (ironic isn't it ?). You will be horrified to learn that mastectomies (or for that matter, surgeries) were performed on patients without anaesthesia in the 18th century. You will feel the unbearable and mind-numbing pain of patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiation. You feel happy when patients are cured and do not relapse . You feel a sense of despondency and helplessness when doctors break the news of diagnosis of the disease to their patients, especially so, when it has reached a stage beyond cure. You feel gloomy for patients clamouring for a ray of hope to find a cure. Folks, it would be apt if you read on kindle. There are medical terms / jargons used which might require a dictionary / wiki to refer to. The book is a heavy read. It took me two months to finish this. It has been a wonderful journey!! ...more This was a mammoth undertaking of research and writing. As a survivor/thriver, I found the book fascinating - and glad I live in the age I do. I think those who read this should also read \"Anticancer: A New Way of Life\" by Dr. David Servan-Shreiber. He's a two-time survivor who uses science to show how we can avoid/mitigate cancer, and it shows a side of the disease that isn't covered in this outstanding work. I first heard about this book a year back and was sure I would never read it. Medical non-fiction is not something I want to wrap my head around. So finally when I did pick it up from the library it was because a young acquaintance was undergoing chemotherapy and I thought it was perhaps \"important\" to understand cancer. I am surprised at what a gripping read the book turned out to be. I ran through the initial 100 or so pages that chronicle the first instances of cancer in history. Mukherjee's I first heard about this book a year back and was sure I would never read it. Medical non-fiction is not something I want to wrap my head around. So finally when I did pick it up from the library it was because a young acquaintance was undergoing chemotherapy and I thought it was perhaps \"important\" to understand cancer. I am surprised at what a gripping read the book turned out to be. I ran through the initial 100 or so pages that chronicle the first instances of cancer in history. Mukherjee's ability with words is obvious from the very first page. He makes the whole guided tour of cancer a fascinating one. At the same time, there is an emotional undertone to the whole story. There is the evil enemy cancer and there are the good guys........a mixed bunch of chemists, biologists and doctors who are fighting valiantly against a seemingly undefeatable evil. The personality of each of these contributors to the fight against cancer, is charmingly analysed by the writer and is one of the things I especially liked about the book.But after a fortnight and with more than half the book left, I realised I was losing the thread because of the numerous people and events that had been explained. So I actually (and geekily) made notes at the back of the book in pencil so that the basic developments would be clear to me. It still took me another month or so to complete the book. I cried, felt triumphant and figuratively bit my nails as I waited for some sort of denoument. The cure of course was never coming but I still felt there SHOULD be something. Mukherjee makes this whole labyrinthine journey seem like some Greek adventure. In the end, a basic understanding of the disease was all that decades of research arrived at. However, with an opponent as formidable as that described by the writer, this was as good a climax as those I have come across in any good thriller. The book reads like a dedication to all those who lost their lives to the disease and to those who made it their live's purpose to vanquish it. There is a strong \"personal\" sense to the writing that elevates the book. It is definitely among the most significant books that I have ever read. quotes from the book: \"I explained the situation as best as I could.......And it is - I paused here for emphasis, lifting my eyes up - often curable. Curable. Carla nodded at that word, her eyes sharpening..........We spoke for an hour, perhaps longer. It was now nine thirty in the morning. The city below us had stirred fully awake. The door shut behind me as I left, and a whoosh of air blew me outward and sealed Carla in.\" \"Nature,\" Rouss wrote in 1966 \"sometimes seems possessed of a sardonic humour.\" And the final lesson of Rous sarcoma virus had been its most sardonic by far. For nearly six decades, the Rous virus had seduced biologists - Spiegelman most sadly among them - down a false path. Yet the false path had ultimately circled back to the right destination - from viral src toward cellular src and to the notion of internal proto-oncogenes sitting omnipresently in the normal cell's genome. In Lewis Carroll's poem, when the hunters finally capture the deceptive snark, it reveals itself, not to be a foreign beast, but one of the human hunters sent to trap it. And so it turned out with cancer. Cancer genes came from within the human genome. Indeed the Greeks had been peculiarly prescient yet again in their use of the term oncos. Cancer was intrinsically \"loaded\" in our genome, awaiting activation.We were destined to carry this fatal burden in our genes - our own genetic \"oncos\". ...more This magisterial history of cancer won a 2011 Pulitzer Prize, though not for History (that went to a new book about the Civil War) or, as Mukherjee more whimsically categorizes his own book, Biography (that went to a biography of George Washington); instead, he won in the General Nonfiction category, which, though prosaic, is certainly appropriate for a work of scientific journalism. The Emperor of all Maladies reminded me most of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks , the previous year\u2019s popular This magisterial history of cancer won a 2011 Pulitzer Prize, though not for History (that went to a new book about the Civil War) or, as Mukherjee more whimsically categorizes his own book, Biography (that went to a biography of George Washington); instead, he won in the General Nonfiction category, which, though prosaic, is certainly appropriate for a work of scientific journalism. The Emperor of all Maladies reminded me most of The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks , the previous year\u2019s popular science blockbuster, with both focusing on bringing complicated science to laypeople through the life stories of ordinary individuals. What Mukherjee has achieved in less than 500 pages is truly remarkable: a fairly comprehensive history, from ancient Egypt to the present day, of the discovery of cancer, its different manifestations, its causes, and the development of treatments ranging from radical surgery to sophisticated pharmaceuticals. That he manages this without alienating people who come to the material with no more knowledge than one could glean from newspaper articles and high school biology is impressive. Only in the last third of the book did I find the science stretching the limits of my imaginative capacity and my memory of AP Biology and Genetics classes, as he goes into details of oncogenes, tumor suppressors, retroviruses, etc. I managed to stay just the right side of comprehension, but I can guess that others with less patience or brain power to devote to their chosen leisure reading might have started skimming or, worse, given up. When meditating on cancer there is a fine line between depression and hope, and Mukherjee proceeds carefully to prove that there is reason for both. On the negative side, it seems likely that in the near future one in two men and one in three women in America will suffer from some form of cancer in their lifetime. All the 1950s talk about a \u2018magic bullet\u2019 to cure cancer has fizzled; there are so many disparate types of cancer that it seems impossible that there could one day be a panacea. Furthermore, the search for environmental and manmade carcinogens faces ongoing resistance from lobby groups. The most discouraging sections of the book were about smoking and the nation\u2019s reluctance to warn of the high risk of lung cancer. And it wasn\u2019t just the tobacco industry that opposed measures such as strongly-worded warning labels on cigarette packets; doctors, politicians, and smokers in general (who formed more than 40% of the population at the height of smoking\u2019s appeal in the 1940s-1950s) denied the truth that was in front of their eyes. However, this book offers the reader plenty of reasons to be hopeful. Mukherjee follows the treatment trajectory of a number of his patients, including Carla Reed, a young mother with leukemia. Her story opens the book and, as Mukherjee reveals in the last chapter, he assumed his book would also finish with the end of her story \u2013 her death. But this was not the case; instead, he comes to a close with an anecdote about going to visit Carla on the fifth anniversary of her remission, to celebrate her new chance at life. My overwhelming sense from this book is that most cancers are indeed treatable, and new medications and procedures are being developed all the time. When cancer affects us \u2013 because, for our families if not for ourselves, it is a question of when, not if \u2013 there should be no cause for despair. The \u2018biography\u2019 of cancer probably does not have an end point, but there is every chance that we can live long lives alongside it. ...more In 2001, I suffered from increasing shortness of breath over a period of several weeks. At first I thought I was just out of shape, then I thought it was a recurrence of childhood asthma, then I went to the clinic of the university where I was attending grad school at the time to get chest x-rays, and the next day someone was sent to pull me out of class and tell me I should go see a doctor like, now. They thought I had pneumonia, but in fact, it turned out to be a grapefruit-size tumor pressing In 2001, I suffered from increasing shortness of breath over a period of several weeks. At first I thought I was just out of shape, then I thought it was a recurrence of childhood asthma, then I went to the clinic of the university where I was attending grad school at the time to get chest x-rays, and the next day someone was sent to pull me out of class and tell me I should go see a doctor like, now. They thought I had pneumonia, but in fact, it turned out to be a grapefruit-size tumor pressing against my lungs. It was Hodgkin's Lymphoma. The Emperor of All Maladies , by research oncologist Siddhartha Mukherjee, is a biography of cancer \u2014 its appearance throughout history, starting with a mention by the Egyptian physician Imhotep, circa 2600 B.C., and Queen Atossa of Persia, who underwent what was probably the first recorded mastectomy in history, our growing understanding and misunderstanding of the nature of this dreaded mutant cellular monster, which is really an entire family of monsters, all uniquely and spitefully different, and the eternal search for a \"cure.\" Mukherjee is an engaging writer, mixing history and social commentary, from a fairly detached perspective, with very detailed explanations of the biochemistry and genetics of cancer and its treatments. He does this in an accessible way, but this is definitely a \"sciencey\" book which will require you to draw on at least your high school-level biology and chemistry. Even if the chapters on researching the origins and cellular makeup of cancer make your eyes glaze over, though, the contemporary history of cancer research, mixed with some of Mukherjee's own cases, will keep you focused on the relevance of the topic. I suppose the weakness of the book (and the reason why it only got 4 stars) is that denseness - while Mukherjee is a good writer, at times it was like reading abstracts from a medical journal. But for anyone who's had a brush with cancer, first, second, or third-hand, there's plenty to find interesting. Cancer isn't a single disease, and there will probably be no single \"cure for cancer.\" Oncologists seem to be moving towards a model similar to that of AIDS treatment \u2014 many forms of cancer are becoming something that, while not yet, \"curable,\" are no longer inevitably terminal either. Something manageable. Not all of them, but some of them are cancers you \"die with\" rather than \"die of.\" And then there are the success stories. By the time of my diagnosis in 2001, Hodgkin's Disease was one of the \"good cancers\" \u2014 easily treatable, with a five-year survival rate of better than 90%. \"Easily treatable,\" is relative of course \u2014 chemo and radiation still sucked. I understand treatment for Hodgkin's has continued to improve in the last fifteen years or so, and now they are working on administering smaller doses. I have been cancer-free for almost fourteen years now. The Emperor of All Maladies was an informative account of how medicine got to where I could say that. ...more I am not sure what to say about this book except that I think it\u2019s a masterpiece. Though I took over five months to read it, I found everything about it fascinating. I have to say that I felt an urgency to read this book before receiving a cancer diagnosis. My mother died of cancer before my twelfth birthday, and ever since then I\u2019ve enjoyed reading books about cancer (fiction, biographies, general non-fiction, medical textbooks, all of them) and have been terrified about getting it. In fact, wit I am not sure what to say about this book except that I think it\u2019s a masterpiece. Though I took over five months to read it, I found everything about it fascinating. I have to say that I felt an urgency to read this book before receiving a cancer diagnosis. My mother died of cancer before my twelfth birthday, and ever since then I\u2019ve enjoyed reading books about cancer (fiction, biographies, general non-fiction, medical textbooks, all of them) and have been terrified about getting it. In fact, with my genes and some of my behaviors/environments, it\u2019s amazing I\u2019ve made it at least this far cancer free. I have a feeling if/when I get cancer, I won\u2019t be as addicted to cancer themed books, at least not for entertainment purposes. In 1965 my uncle, a doctor, said he thought that in a decade there would be a cure, and that nobody would die from cancer. Was he ever wrong! And the author of this book does a masterful job of explaining why, and why cancers are so complicated. I enjoyed the quotes that started off each chapter, and how they stem from both science and literature. I admired how cancer is covered from the very personal (the author\u2019s thoughts and perspective, and stories of a very few patients he\u2019s known), the historical all the way through history, the research and its successes and failures, to date, the science, the various cancers touched on, so many aspects, and that\u2019s very fitting for this subject, a biography of cancer. I would have liked a bit more on the individual patients, but since I wouldn\u2019t want any cuts in the other portions, we\u2019d most likely be talking about a 1,000 page book; actually, that would have been fine with me. This book is definitely for laypeople, but for me it helped to have a bit of medical/oncology background/experience; it\u2019s not necessary though. I often love books by doctor writers and I\u2019ll definitely read (almost) all other books this author writes. He\u2019s an excellent writer, I love his writing style, and he made every aspect of this subject so interesting. I didn\u2019t thoroughly read the notes pages 473-532 or the index pages 545-571, but I read everything else. Highly recommended for anyone interested in cancer. ...more This is an elegant, well-written book. Parts of the book read like a detective story, and are very engrossing. However, I really take issue with the short shrift that the book gives to research on cancer prevention. Now, the author readily admits that big strides toward conquering cancer will not occur by only finding cures--prevention is just as important. But, while the book has several chapters on the connection between smoking and lung cancer, no attention is paid to research related to othe This is an elegant, well-written book. Parts of the book read like a detective story, and are very engrossing. However, I really take issue with the short shrift that the book gives to research on cancer prevention. Now, the author readily admits that big strides toward conquering cancer will not occur by only finding cures--prevention is just as important. But, while the book has several chapters on the connection between smoking and lung cancer, no attention is paid to research related to other important lifestyle changes in preventing cancer. For example, a large body of research, both epidemiological and experiments with laboratory animals, have found strong connections between nutrition and cancer prevention. It simply stuns me that in a huge, comprehensive book like this, absolutely zero attention is paid to this very important topic. ...more This book is subtitled \u201cA Biography of Cancer.\u201d Mukherjee is an oncologist at Columbia University, and he writes well; the text reads less like a history than as a novel. Yet Mukherjee is scrupulously factual. This history, with a few gestures toward the confusions and mysteries of cancer and treatment in the 19th century and first half of the 20th century, really begins with the research of Sidney Farber at Boston Children\u2019s Hospital in the late 1940\u2019s, when Farber began approaching the treatme This book is subtitled \u201cA Biography of Cancer.\u201d Mukherjee is an oncologist at Columbia University, and he writes well; the text reads less like a history than as a novel. Yet Mukherjee is scrupulously factual. This history, with a few gestures toward the confusions and mysteries of cancer and treatment in the 19th century and first half of the 20th century, really begins with the research of Sidney Farber at Boston Children\u2019s Hospital in the late 1940\u2019s, when Farber began approaching the treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with anti-folates. To me, as a pediatrician, Farber\u2019s name is legendary, as is that of Louis Diamond who worked with him. About twenty years later, when I was just an intern, prospects for these children were marginally better, but the outcome of their courses were often heartbreaking. The cases that Mukherjee describes affected me markedly as I read about them; they were so nearly the same as those children I cared for. \u201cTo name an illness is to describe a certain condition of suffering \u2013 a literary act before it becomes a medical one.\u201d With the naming, with the diagnosis, begins a seemingly inexorable process of evaluation, treatment, and waiting. As Mukherjee states, \u201cThe only way out would be the way through,\u201d a statement and fact that hauntingly remind me of Dante\u2019s journey through the Inferno, probably an apt metaphor. Reading this book makes me want to return to a reading of medical and surgical pioneers whom Mukherjee mentions \u2013 Vesalius, Galen, Hippocrates, Virchow, Baillie, and even the author of the ancient Edwin Smith papyrus, all works that I read many years ago when in the thrall of reading original works in the history of medicine. The books are still on my shelves, and I itch to reopen them. Equally fascinating is the only gradual application of true scientific principles to cancer therapy, the surge in the use of controlled studies and statistical analysis that we so much take for granted today. Too often grand theorizing, anecdotal descriptions, and reliance on the word and reputations of authoritative physicians guided therapy. Mukherjee traces cancer treatment from doing nothing (because there seemed nothing to do), to surgery, on to the application of radiation to tumors, and then to the introduction of chemotherapy and beyond. The story is one of science \u2013 sometimes methodical, sometimes serendipitous \u2013 human egos and personalities \u2013 sometimes arrogant, sometimes humble \u2013 and politics \u2013 often driven by simplistic notions and individual agendas. It is a fascinating story, fascinatingly told. (Sometimes I wished for more of the perspectives of the patients themselves.) When discussing the political initiatives and maneuverings with regard to legislation funding \u201cthe war on cancer,\u201d Mukherjee provides important insights as to how a national mood can drive legislation; during the fifties and sixties the national threat was seen as external, fueling the Cold War and its responses, whereas by the seventies the locus of anxieties was more internal \u2013 political cynicism, spiritual rot, etc \u2013 and the focus on cancer as an ultimate threat burgeoned. I was pleased to see that Mukherjee has included information about the history of hospice and palliative medicine; I had not known that the first hospice program in the US was launched in 1974 at the Yale-New Haven Hospital, just five years after I graduated from the Yale School of Medicine. Preventing cancer attracted more interest during the past thirty years or so. Often these investigations required the method of statistical correlation, tobacco smoking and lung cancer being a case in point. Mukherjee is not shy about outlining the strategies and deceptions of the tobacco industry to escape culpability and regulation, and he is equally forthright about acknowledging the resistance on the part of patients to quitting smoking, all leading to a continuing exposure on the part of millions of future patients to a potent carcinogen. Infectious agents also \u2013 viruses and bacteria \u2013 were found to be related to the development of cancer. What was really needed, however, was a better understanding of carcinogenesis, why and how cancers develop. With the recognition that early diagnosis and the institution of earlier treatment was important in curing cancer, a new emphasis on early detection through screening procedures developed \u2013 Pap smears for cervical cancer, mammograms for breast cancer. At the same time, in the 1980\u2019s, with the onset of the AIDS epidemic and further chemotherapeutic advances with a variety of cancers, oncologists pushed for ever more aggressive treatment regimens, often combined with bone marrow transplants. Complicating this period, rife with both unwarranted optimism and vigorous skepticism, were the appearance of shoddy scientific studies and even cases of researcher fraud, often accompanied by the relaxation of FDA oversight in the release of drugs being used. Eventually the realization came that cancer was a variety of diseases, each requiring different understandings and treatments. Attention by necessity turned back to basic science, the study of fundamental mechanisms, back to the cancer cell itself. I found Mukherjee\u2019s discussion of virology, retroviruses, and oncogenes especially clear and interesting. The genetics of cancer is absolutely fascinating, with new knowledge, new drugs, and new insights appearing all the time. \u201cMedicine begins with storytelling. Patients tell stories to describe illness; doctors tell stories to understand it.\u201d Mukherjee has captured these stories into a compelling and sensitive narrative. Now retired, I have less immediate access to information at the frontiers of medical knowledge and research. But information is increasingly all around us, in the print media, on the internet. Granted, much of this information is sensationalized and unreliable, but nevertheless there are many sources which present good science, carefully reviewed and reported. I shall be reading these sources now more diligently. Mukherjee\u2019s book reads like a thriller, a thriller chock full of frustrations, coincidences, missed chances and brilliant insights. It is gripping at the same time that it is deeply humane. It enables the reader to understand current articles and scientific findings in a fresh way, putting current research into a comprehensible context. The journey is fascinating and ongoing. And, perhaps above all, it brings one back again and again to the lives and experiences of those who have encountered and lived with cancer in its many forms. It was a privilege to have read this book, and I am grateful to Mukherjee for it. ...more Sigh. I really wanted to be intellectual enough for this book. I loved walking around with it, carrying it into my pediatrician's office -- see, doctor? I may be a lowly layperson, but I too can read doctor books! (He didn't notice.) And for the first 100 pages, I was excited. Yes! I can like this! It's interesting and engaging, and I'm learning a lot! But at 150 pages, my attention started to flag, and so did my enjoyment. Thank God, I'm just not that curious about cancer. Not enough to slog thro Sigh. I really wanted to be intellectual enough for this book. I loved walking around with it, carrying it into my pediatrician's office -- see, doctor? I may be a lowly layperson, but I too can read doctor books! (He didn't notice.) And for the first 100 pages, I was excited. Yes! I can like this! It's interesting and engaging, and I'm learning a lot! But at 150 pages, my attention started to flag, and so did my enjoyment. Thank God, I'm just not that curious about cancer. Not enough to slog through 500 pages about it. All that detail, much of which felt repetitive after a while -- yet another misunderstood scientist with some personality quirks, lots of failures and then discovery, recognized or maybe not recognized until after his death, names of chemicals, cellular action, whatever whatever. Basically, I had a stack of more appealing (and way shorter) books on my nightstand calling out to me, and my ego finally lost the war because life is too short. I'm giving it three stars because I recognize its greatness, and it probably deserves more than three. I'm just not the right audience. ...more International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) released a report on February 4th, 2015 stating that in 2012 an estimate of 8.2 million deaths were due to cancer. In 2030, this number is expected to rise to 13 million people around the world (mostly in economically developing countries). Cancer is expected to surpass heart disease to become the most common cause of death in coming years. It is against this backdrop that I started this book, the colossal significance of cancer baffled me and International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) released a report on February 4th, 2015 stating that in 2012 an estimate of 8.2 million deaths were due to cancer. In 2030, this number is expected to rise to 13 million people around the world (mostly in economically developing countries). Cancer is expected to surpass heart disease to become the most common cause of death in coming years. It is against this backdrop that I started this book, the colossal significance of cancer baffled me and I wanted to know the whole story. What is cancer? Cancer is not one disease but many diseases. We call them all \u201ccancer\u201d because they share a fundamental feature: the abnormal growth of cells. Beyond biological commonalities, there are cultural, political and psychological themes that justify a unifying narrative. Siddhartha Mukherjee describes our interaction with cancer through a narrative that relies heavily on metaphors. Cancer is our own living system gone amok. It pits us against our very own selves and in this war the line between friend and foe, us and them, is almost nonexistent. A civil war right in our blood and flesh, annihilating the very body that it feeds on, this is a story of betrayal and desecration. Mukherjee writes with the flair of a poet and exuberance of a historian. Starting from the great Egyptian physician Imhotep, he illustrates the confusion that has surround cancer ever since. From the stretcher of renaissance surgeons to the modernized clinics of oncology, from proponents of radical mastectomy to the advocates of intensive chemotherapy, the story of cancer is deeply humane and utterly tragic. For the author too, the story is a very personal one, it is his way of empathizing with all those who are fight this disease. There are multiple narratives that go side by side, scientific evolution is a slow process and unfortunately there is never a paucity of hurdles that halt scientific advancement. Scientists and surgeons tried to fight cancer with surgical knife, high frequency radiation and toxic chemotherapies it has been tiresome but rewarding struggle. Mukherjee meticulously describes this struggle with a focus on USA, where major research was being carried out, and educates the reader not only about the scientific but the political and cultural struggle that had to fought by victims of cancer. This book is full of technical and scientific details, and written for serious readers who want to understand the nature and character of this malady. I loved the literary approach and the historical struggle between science and society, the politics involved and the sheer magnanimity of some individuals who dedicated their entire lives for this cause. But the fight goes on, and there is no respite yet. As the authors puts it \u201cIn Lewis Carroll\u2019s \u2018Through the looking glass\u2019, the Red Queen tells Alice that the world keeps shifting so quickly under her feet that she has to keep running just to keep her position. This is our predicament with cancer: We are forced to keep running merely to keep still.\u201d Cancer is always changing itself; it recurs in different shapes and invades our body from within with utmost precision and secrecy. But we have to keep fighting, fiercely and courageously. Here is a poem that kept coming to my mind all the while I was reading this book\u2026. It is deeply reminiscent of the struggle agianst this \u201cEmperor of all Maladies\u201d. Do not go gentle into that good night, Old age should burn and rave at close of day; Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Though wise men at their end know dark is right, Because their words had forked no lightning they Do not go gentle into that good night. Good men, the last wave by, crying how bright Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay, Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight, And learn, too late, they grieved it on its way, Do not go gentle into that good night. Grave men, near death, who see with blinding sight Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay, Rage, rage against the dying of the light. - Dylan Thomas ...more A terrific, comprehensive look at the history and mechanics of cancer, starting at Imhotep and ending at the no-longer-quite-literal bleeding edge of science. Mukherjee is an engaging and very careful writer; you get the sense that he pored over each sentence to make it as clear as possible. It worked, too. For we book nerds, he's scattered references to a wonderful variety of books throughout: Herodotus, Italo Calvino and Joan Didion all make their way in here, as well as this sentence, to which A terrific, comprehensive look at the history and mechanics of cancer, starting at Imhotep and ending at the no-longer-quite-literal bleeding edge of science. Mukherjee is an engaging and very careful writer; you get the sense that he pored over each sentence to make it as clear as possible. It worked, too. For we book nerds, he's scattered references to a wonderful variety of books throughout: Herodotus, Italo Calvino and Joan Didion all make their way in here, as well as this sentence, to which he adds no comment: \"Normal cells are identically normal; malignant cells become unhappily malignant in unique ways.\" How great is that? You know how sometimes you read a book like this and your impression is, \"Here's an average scientist who's a pretty good writer, so I guess he's doing an okay job at conveying basic information to a lay person like me\"? That's not the impression you get here. You feel like you're in the presence of a rare brain here.* You should know ahead of time that this is not a quick read. It's dense; Mukherjee has a lot of information for you, and he means to put it all down. I read this at about half my usual reading pace. You should be prepared for a commitment. Also, it's kindof a bummer. It turns out that cancer is bad for you. But it's absolutely worth it. The book, not cancer. Cancer: bad. My book club ran a poll recently about the best book of the 21st century thus far, and Emperor of All Maladies was the only nonfiction finalist. I thought it was an interesting choice. Now I totally get it. Cancer is a modern disease**; this book, laying out what we thought we knew and what we now know we don't, feels like it describes where the world is now in a peculiarly fitting way. I loved it. * By the way, check out his sources occasionally as you go. You'll be amazed at how many of them are primary: he seems to have personally interviewed practically everyone. ** Modern largely because, as Mukherjee points out, people used to die before they got a chance to develop it. ...more From even the minor irritation of the common cold to a sprained muscle, anything that affects our normal body functioning is always something we grumble about or wish away quickly. These little imbalances of the bodily functions fade into obscurity when a human being comes face to face with the non-contagious, lethal killers. A harmless looking lump somewhere in the body, a little pain while swallowing food or water are all precursors of the most dreaded aberration of them all : Cancer. Siddhart From even the minor irritation of the common cold to a sprained muscle, anything that affects our normal body functioning is always something we grumble about or wish away quickly. These little imbalances of the bodily functions fade into obscurity when a human being comes face to face with the non-contagious, lethal killers. A harmless looking lump somewhere in the body, a little pain while swallowing food or water are all precursors of the most dreaded aberration of them all : Cancer. Siddhartha Mukherjee explores this elusive, advanced and highly adaptable predator in this exhaustive volume. The most humbling experience in my life was a visit to the most renowned Cancer ward in Kerala. The person I went to meet was a bubbly, cheerful and exuberant young girl in her early 20's and had just joined for her studies to become a staff nurse when she had frequent bouts of exhaustion that left her helpless. One test lead to another and finally the horrific realization hit the family : it was cancer of the lungs and slowly moving into a malignant phase. A few hours before we were visiting, the girl tried to leap out of the window in a desperate attempt to take her own life but was restrained by the hospital staff. Bitter and downright acerbic she refused to see anyone including her parents during that day. All that I could do was to stay outside the room with her blank looking parents and a few other acquaintances. What shook me most was the sights around me : little children who have no inkling of why they are there, the relatives with their expressions of equal parts despair and hope and the hospital staff who go about their duties briskly. It took me a while to recover and I have always looked at health a little more reverently from then on. These lines were not meant to convey a touch of melodrama but the way this book looked at the disease reminded me of that evening. After finishing the book, I spent a little time scouring the internet for reviews and a lot many reviewers called it a detective story. There is a lot of truth in this for this is a slow unfolding of the engima surrounding Cancer through the decades. But I felt this to be more of a horror story for at least until the late 80's till humanity figured out the basis of carcinogenesis, treatment was little short of butchery. You simply cannot read of the surgical procedure like radical mastectomy without cringing in your seat ! But no matter how horrific they were, each of these treatment methods had a part to play in understanding this monster. As much as this is a story of a disease, its victims and survivors, it is also a story of gigantic mistakes, unbelievable arrogance and egoes of men that sacrificed hundreds of lives in the name of medical practice. Mukherjee is a wonderful storyteller for his prose is not cut and dried like non fiction and flows like good fiction is supposed to, effortless and easy to comprehend. It is a poignant, moving, horrifying and brilliant history of the most powerful disease man has ever encountered. As two reasearchers said Cancer is a distorted version of our own selves. Undoubtedly, this distorted twin of ours is far more advanced and versatile entity than we ever will be ! The points of contention I had was that while a lot of attention and detail is given to Leukemia, Breast and Lung Cancer the other forms of the disease like Brain Tumor is just hinted upon. To be fair to the author, such a discussion would also have resulted in a book more than a thousand pages big. Also missing is that pivotal part on Cancer prevention. Which are the do's and dont's for a normal human being to avoid carcinogens and lead a reasonably safe life ? This again is barely touched upon here. A solid five stars and highly recommended. For want of a better classification - This is a magesterial work ! ...more Medicine begins with storytelling. Patients tell stories to describe illness; doctors tell stories to understand it. Science tells its own stories to explain diseases. The story of one cancer's genesis \u2013 of carcinogens causing mutations in internal genes, unleashing cascading pathways in cells that then cycle through mutation, selection, and survival \u2013 represents the most cogent outline we have of cancer's birth. The Emperor of All Maladies is a book of stories: author and cancer physician/rese Medicine begins with storytelling. Patients tell stories to describe illness; doctors tell stories to understand it. Science tells its own stories to explain diseases. The story of one cancer's genesis \u2013 of carcinogens causing mutations in internal genes, unleashing cascading pathways in cells that then cycle through mutation, selection, and survival \u2013 represents the most cogent outline we have of cancer's birth. The Emperor of All Maladies is a book of stories: author and cancer physician/researcher Siddhartha Mukherjee states that his intention with this book was to write the \u201cbiography\u201d of cancer, and to achieve this, he looks back to the earliest account of the disease (found on a forty-five-hundred-year-old Egyptian papyrus), traces the standards of care for the afflicted through the millenia, and along the way, provides biographies for the cancer physicians/researchers who sought \u201cthe\u201d cure, and intermittently, shares the details of his own patients' battles. This is a lot of information, and while I appreciate the ambition of Mukherjee's project, it didn't quite synthesise into a cohesive whole for me. Sometimes dull and frequently overwritten, I also found much fascinating in this book and am happy to have picked it up. Normal cells are identically normal; malignant cells become unhappily malignant in unique ways. As I noted recently when I reviewed Mukherjee's The Gene , I was interested in reading Emperor in order to have information to combat those conspiracy theorists who blithely aver that \u201cthey\u201d have found the cure for cancer and are suppressing it \u201cfor profit\u201d. If nothing else, this book makes it clear that cancer is no one thing (other than out-of-control cell growth, various cancers present in wildly different ways), with no one cause (we learn of the HP virus that causes cervical cancer, the environmental origin of mesothelioma, the dizzying variety of genetic and environmental factors that can trigger breast cancers), and no one cure applies to every case. It was interesting to learn of the evolution of cancer cures \u2013 from surgery to radiation to chemotherapy to today's gene-targeting medicines \u2013 and that a combination of these techniques still makes for best practises. Learning the stories of the people who dedicated their professional lives to the development of these techniques \u2013 researchers who often succumbed to cancer themselves \u2013 it's impossible to imagine that any of them, rushing to make advances and being the first to publish results, would be capable of suppressing \u201cthe\u201d cure under orders from some mysterious \u201cthey\u201d; research builds upon previous research in such a way that even if one lab is somehow gagged, another will eventually make the same links. As for the researchers, these were some of my favourites: Andreas Vesalius \u2013 the sixteenth century anatomist who made the first thorough study of the human body and failed to find the \u201cblack bile\u201d that Galen had imagined as the cause for cancer in ancient Rome, and which physicians had accepted as fact for centuries; Sidney Farber \u2013 the researcher turned clinician who essentially invented chemotherapy to battle childhood leukemia (and I know that Mukherjee wanted me to be equally interested in Mary Lasker \u2013 the socialite who partnered with Farber to push for national funding for the \u201cWar on Cancer\u201d \u2013 but her story felt peripheral to me); Barry Marshall \u2013 so convinced that stomach cancer is caused by an infection that he created a broth of the bacteria from a patient's stomach, drank it, and gave himself a precancerous ulcer (which was then cured with antibiotics; which is today's standard of care in early stage stomach cancer); Cecily Saunders \u2013 the British physician who created the field of palliative medicine in response to the terminal patients who weren't of much interest to those oncologists who were fighting only for victories in the war on cancer; George Crile \u2013 who fought back against the idea of the radical mastectomy as the only cure for breast cancer (and the related stories of generations of surgeons removing ever more muscle and bone during mastectomies to prevent relapse, those same generations of women who helplessly submitted themselves to the scalpels and advice of their well-intentioned doctors, and the link between the rise in political feminism and the birth of medical feminism, The fact that one of the most common and most disfiguring operations performed on women's bodies had never been formally tested in a trial stood out as even more starkly disturbing to a new generation of women ). I was fascinated by how so many specific cures were invented through the back door, as it were \u2013 \u201cHey, I've incidentally created an antifolate in the lab, anybody need that?\u201d \u201cOver here!\u201d \u2013 and as we have only recently been mapping the human genome, the future of gene-targeting cures sounds exciting (and especially as there are apparently all of these synthesised molecules awaiting a purpose). For example: In 1993, researcher Brian Druker (with others) isolated a transgenic molecule \u2013 a chemical kinase inhibitor derived from sea bacteria, of all things \u2013 that would turn off the cancer causing mutation in CML (a rare form of leukemia), but when the astonishing results were presented to the executives of the drug company where he worked, they weren't excited to spend 100-200 million dollars on years of clinical trials for the benefit of the few thousand Americans afflicted with CML each year. Eventually, the company allowed Druker to do a very small scale trial, and as patient after patient went quickly into complete remission \u2013 and as the dawn of the internet chatroom alerted other sufferers to the existence of this miracle treatment \u2013 \u201cGleevec\u201d rapidly made the jump to market, where it is today considered the cure. (And perhaps not incidentally, people with CML need to be on Gleevec for the rest of their lives to remain cancer-free, so in this case, \u201cthe cure for cancer\u201d is certainly in a drug company's best long-term interest.) So, much was interesting, but in a long book, I grew to resent those parts that weren't so interesting (for me anyway): there could have been less about the missteps and deadends in cancer research; the battle with tobacco companies to acknowledge their contribution to lung cancer is well known and unnecessary (and covered at length here); the drawn out history of funding for (American) cancer research didn't pique my interest; and while I understand the connection between the AIDS activists of the 1980's and later terminal cancer patients \u2013 people on the brink of death shouldn't be forced to wait for a decade of safety trials before being offered a new medicine; they are more than willing to be the trial if it offers any hope at all \u2013 the foray into AIDS felt off-topic. Mukherjee certainly has a talent for explaining science to the layperson, but with his jumps forward and backwards in time, I'd say he has less skill with putting it all in historical perspective (I had to keep doing this for myself, \u201cAh, he's talking about the Fifties again, when this research was going on over there and this political pressure was affecting things here\u201d.) And he frequently overwrites the prosey bits: when I'm concentrating to follow the science, I don't want to be slowed down by trying to parse out, \u201cWomen wrote to their surgeons in admiration and awe, begging them not to spare their surgical extirpations, as if surgery were an anagogical ritual that would simultaneously rid them of cancer and uplift them into health\u201d . Ultimately, I do understand cancer better now \u2013 its history, its variety, its methods and weaknesses \u2013 and I do believe I have what I need to combat the conspiracy theorists; so mission accomplished. As for the future of cancer, this thought was sobering: Perhaps cancer, the scrappy, fecund, invasive, adaptable twin to our own scrappy, fecund, invasive, adaptable cells and genes, is impossible to disconnect from our bodies. Perhaps cancer defines the inherent outer limit of our survival. As our cells divide and our bodies age, and as mutations accumulate inexorably upon mutations, cancer might well be the final terminus in our development as organisms. We're all going to die of something. And as the population ages \u2013 having (in the West) mostly eliminated the historic midlife killers like cholera, typhus and tuberculosis \u2013 we're more and more likely to die of some form of cancer; even if that cancer is controllable and our deaths are delayed by decades, some novel mutation in our aging cells will likely make us vulnerable to some other form. I can make peace with that knowledge and am glad to have read the book that taught me this. ...more Solid, sweeping, informative, and uplifting. Like Gawande, who influenced him, the author is a rare practicing physician who has great writing talent. He covers well the bases on the history of cancer science and treatment while rendering the enlightening personal experiences of his own patients and the political context of the enterprise. Written with a journalist's flair for story and drama and an educator's gift for conveying complex scientific and medical issues for the layman and savvy read Solid, sweeping, informative, and uplifting. Like Gawande, who influenced him, the author is a rare practicing physician who has great writing talent. He covers well the bases on the history of cancer science and treatment while rendering the enlightening personal experiences of his own patients and the political context of the enterprise. Written with a journalist's flair for story and drama and an educator's gift for conveying complex scientific and medical issues for the layman and savvy reader alike. His insider's insight and perceptions on the key breakthroughs and disappointments in the progress in both prevention and treatment realms made this relatively lengthy read worth the effort. ...more Sometimes I'll get excited when I read science-related articles that suggest that some time in the future, we will know so much about our body that we'll be able to cure anything that's wrong, and replace anything that's old and worn down. Some have even suggested that immortality is an actual possibility. Heart not working? 3D-print a new one. Brain shutdown? No big deal. It's hard not to believe this when constantly confronted with sensational articles that come out on an almost daily basis: 10 Sometimes I'll get excited when I read science-related articles that suggest that some time in the future, we will know so much about our body that we'll be able to cure anything that's wrong, and replace anything that's old and worn down. Some have even suggested that immortality is an actual possibility. Heart not working? 3D-print a new one. Brain shutdown? No big deal. It's hard not to believe this when constantly confronted with sensational articles that come out on an almost daily basis: 100% Effective Ebola Vaccine Found. Enzyme Created that Changes Donated Blood Into Universal Type. HIV Pill Found to be 100% Effective in Trials. Extrapolated over time, why WOULDN'T we cure everything in the next 10,50,100 years? But then you have something like cancer. Cancer is, well, it's a son of a bitch. There's a haunting passage in the very last pages of this 600+ page book that suggest maybe cancer is the great equalizer. Maybe it's nature's way of saying, \"that's it, you've lived long enough. This is the limit.\" Cancer is embedded into our very genes. Even if nothing external gives it a helping hand, there's still a possibility of one cell copying information wrong, and boom, there it is. And guess how many cells are in your body? 37.2 trillion, in a constant state of flux, death, and multiplication. It's easy to see what makes finding a universal \"magic cure\" seem so impossible. It's also freaked me out a little, and now every time I have a headache, I'm worried it's a tumor. That feeling of inevitability is an interesting note to end on, because most of the book strikes a pretty optimistic tone. Mukherjee takes us through the history of cancer research, and doesn't leave a single thing out. Hundreds of doctors and surgeons are named, each doing their own part to build on our knowledge base. Huge breakthroughs are made. Many speeches are given at medical conferences that leave the audiences \"shocked to their core.\" Frustration is undoubtedly expressed, but it always seems like the next big discovery comes right around the corner. I was utterly shocked to learn that most of cancer research in general is barely 100 years old. In 1975, people still thought the best solution to breast cancer was to perform extremely radical surgery that essentially removed the entire top half of your body. In fact, the genetic aspects of cancer weren't even discovered until the 90s. I mean, I was alive in the 90s! It's kind of heartening to know that we will still learn so much more about the disease in the coming decades. The first 400 pages are extremely readable -- and utterly engrossing. Only in the latter stages (when genetics come into play), do things get a little harder to understand, but it's definitely not overwhelming. As a non-doctor layperson, I learned an incredible amount of things from this book. I found myself Googling certain things to find out more, and for me that's always the sign of a complete state of being absorbed in a book. The only parts that really took me out of it were the brief sections where Mukherjee talks about his own patients. He seemed to want to insert little anecdotes from his own experience to make some kind of poignant, emotional point, but these were placed so randomly that they had almost no effect. He also kept referring to them by their first names (which were made up names anyway), and I could never remember who he was talking about because the last time he mentioned them was many pages ago. All in all, if you have even a passing interest in understanding more about cancer, I can't recommend this highly enough. It took me quite a long time to get through, but I was never bored. If anything, I was overwhelmed with new information that I wanted to know about. Apparently this was also made into a PBS film, that I will be checking out immediately. ...more<---C>Siddhartha Mukherjee</---C><+++>The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer</+++>", "Title": "The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer"},
