{"Comments": "<+++>On the Other Hand: The Little Anthology of Big Questions</+++>Q: ? A: ! I am going to post this review in informal language : Hi Renee ,<---M> Oh my god</---M>, My Goodness, this book is just awesome... Really, I have been smiling for the past four nights due to your book. I have been having the most vivid dreams.<---F> I have been</---F>.......well, it is quite hard for me to explain how I have felt. I think I can't just say everything, it will take me much more to write in words what I feel. I don't know any British Slangs are, but your books is really sky rocketing...xD! Really, I am really I am going to post this review in informal language : Hi Renee , Oh my god, My Goodness, this book is just awesome... Really, I have been smiling for the past four nights due to your book. I have been having the most vivid dreams. I have been.......well, it is quite hard for me to explain how I have felt. I think I can't just say everything, it will take me much more to write in words what I feel. I don't know any British Slangs are, but your books is really sky rocketing...xD! Really, I am really happy I read this book....... You are really a strong character, you are. I am not praising your writing style or choice of words, it is just what you have written. I felt as if a play is being run before me of which I am an integral part. Many questions, unanswered are still zooming in my mind...... This is not a self help book, by my foot, it isn't. It is a self realisation book... I believe so..... The way you own up for you life, the self confrontation , it is just awesome.... The best chapters are - Open-mindedness, Interaction and Right & Wrong. Especially the Realisation of Page 26 - 27 is quite interesting. And I will wind up saying, I look forward to reading all of your books. Note to other buyers : You will get a lot out of this book, just make sure you pass it on to others :) ...more This is a book you should definitely buy, if you are interested in finding more about yourself as a person and about the world around you, if you are interested in raising questions, given the fact that sometimes you will not find answers or you will find many answers for the same question.It is a heart to heart talk between author and reader.I found out so much about myself from this book, i found so many of my thoughts here, thoughts i was not completely aware of.I love the author,s style of w This is a book you should definitely buy, if you are interested in finding more about yourself as a person and about the world around you, if you are interested in raising questions, given the fact that sometimes you will not find answers or you will find many answers for the same question.It is a heart to heart talk between author and reader.I found out so much about myself from this book, i found so many of my thoughts here, thoughts i was not completely aware of.I love the author,s style of writing, the way she talks to the reader, sharing her personal life experience, her ideas, her soul.This book is about life, about questions, about who we are, about our actions.Despite the fact that this book has only 136 pages, it covers many topics completely:the world, society, rules, open-mindedness, interaction, what is truly important and what is not, different views on things, time, right, wrong, light, shadow, visible, invisible, awareness, where we truly are, curiosity and confusion, our mind, change, information, evolution of technology and how it affects us all, comfort, security, absurdities, fears, actions, freedom, definition of ourselves.This book is a completely different view on things, it is about re-thinking on everything that we are, that society is.I enjoyed this book so much, i say it again, it is so easy to read but read it carefully, so you can truly understand what the author has to say.I read it quickly but i forgot to change my status here in goodreads, after i finished it reading.I give it 5 stars, because i found myself in this book, it gave light to my eyes, i received answers, also i realized there are so many more questions to be raised.Life is a rollercoaster.This review is entirely objective, but thank you Renee Paule again for allowing me to have this book, now i understand everything. ...more An interesting read that may challenge many cherished beliefs. Candid in her approach, the author pulls no punches as she invites you to think about life. Exposing her vulnerability with her frank openness about her past experiences that led her to the questions raised in this book. Like the blurb says \u2026 it's not for the faint hearted. : On The Other Hand: The Little Anthology of Big Questions (Paperback) I have struggled to write this review. First, I found the book difficult to digest... I chewed over it, slowly. The author rather sternly points to the importance of 'being prepared to be brutally honest'... My core-beliefs are not in alignment with some of her assertions and I struggled at times with the seemingly, to me, relentless questions. (As a beloved friend of mine will atest, erotemes are not my favourite punctuation!) So : On The Other Hand: The Little Anthology of Big Questions (Paperback) I have struggled to write this review. First, I found the book difficult to digest... I chewed over it, slowly. The author rather sternly points to the importance of 'being prepared to be brutally honest'... My core-beliefs are not in alignment with some of her assertions and I struggled at times with the seemingly, to me, relentless questions. (As a beloved friend of mine will atest, erotemes are not my favourite punctuation!) So, I would say if you enjoy analytical and 'why' exploration, you are in for a treat, however you may need to push yourself to wade in deeper if you prefer a gentler and sweeter approach to your 'wake-up calls' :) The actual body of work Renee has created makes sense, and much is in complete alignment with my own realisations. With personal courage she challenges so many of Society's sacred cows, and I would happily stand shoulder to shoulder with her in this. 'Culture' is part of the inheritance we are 'passing on' to the next generation. Before that, Renee would like us to question what exactly is IN that parcel; What if it's just a junk box full of 'Rules and Regulations'? I love the original art work of the quirky young Miss seated on her books, cosy in a sweater decorated with a reflected question mark. Another delight is the \"Who am I\" poem ; \".....go IN, and find, the greatest prize\" Wise words indeed! A beautifully shared insight on practically everything you could think of, why not try it, and see if you agree too? ...more First of all, I must declare an interest in this book as I know the author very well and I edited the book for her. I have not and will not be paid for my services in any way. This book stands on its own merit and needs no props or bias. It is from this standpoint that I am pleased to write my review. ***** If you are looking for answers to the questions in this book you will be disappointed; there are no `answer pages' at the back. Rather, the author invites you to think about life by taking anot First of all, I must declare an interest in this book as I know the author very well and I edited the book for her. I have not and will not be paid for my services in any way. This book stands on its own merit and needs no props or bias. It is from this standpoint that I am pleased to write my review. ***** If you are looking for answers to the questions in this book you will be disappointed; there are no `answer pages' at the back. Rather, the author invites you to think about life by taking another look at it. This is not an easy-street-read pandering to the masses. The overriding theme of this book is that we are responsible for ourselves and the things that happen to us; not a popular concept in this `there, there' placating world where we point the finger everywhere but at ourselves. This book points no fingers but looks at the human race, as a whole. With that thought in mind the book asks: \"Why do we do these things?\" The book \"... explores these facets with some bold and frank questions that can make for uncomfortable reading.\" and states: \"Be prepared ... old beliefs are hard to eliminate and to let go of. I write nothing you have to believe. I ask you to believe nothing. I do try to show you that Humanity created this world and only Humanity can dismantle it\". If you are prepared or want to make changes to your life then I recommend this work. By the time you are done reading it you may have a whole new perspective on the world we all have to live in. ...more Exploring difficult concepts in a simple way can be a hard task. But this book puts things simply and clearly. Easy to understand, yet interesting, this book made me think about my life. It challenges 'conditioned' perceptions and encourages you to question your own reason for existence; not always easy to face. Every chapter explores significant life topics about things we prefer not to think about. I keep slipping back and I\u2019m going to read it again. Love it. This book encourages you to look deep into yourself for answers to some thought provoking questions raised by the author. Advocating neither science nor religion this book makes you stop and actually think about things, in a way that may never have occurred to you before. It doesn't preach or condemn but asks you to think independently , prodding you to come up with answers to previously never thought of questions. A compulsive and stimulating read that grabs your attention and simply refuses to l This book encourages you to look deep into yourself for answers to some thought provoking questions raised by the author. Advocating neither science nor religion this book makes you stop and actually think about things, in a way that may never have occurred to you before. It doesn't preach or condemn but asks you to think independently , prodding you to come up with answers to previously never thought of questions. A compulsive and stimulating read that grabs your attention and simply refuses to let go! A must read. ...more on the other hand: the little it's my first english book review. well, i got this book cause i win book giveaway from renee. thanks before :* ok timw to review, i think it's amazing book. i love to read this book, this book will make you understand yourself. sometime you was confuse who are you, and what you really want. many thing you think when you wanna do something. you should read this book. i rate this book 5 stars cause it's really great book :D. thanks renee :* This book is simply different It's not like any other philosophical book which usually contain difficult words and definitions or any other self help book in which the author gives his own answers to readers. Miss Ren\u00e9e \" Here \" asks questions and assists in their revival and answering these questions is up to you. If I have a T-shirt and I have a double and you want a t shirt so bad I can give you one but Is it going to fit your size? It may be yes or no the answer to this question The same goes w This book is simply different It's not like any other philosophical book which usually contain difficult words and definitions or any other self help book in which the author gives his own answers to readers. Miss Ren\u00e9e \" Here \" asks questions and assists in their revival and answering these questions is up to you. If I have a T-shirt and I have a double and you want a t shirt so bad I can give you one but Is it going to fit your size? It may be yes or no the answer to this question The same goes with self help books as the answers of the author don't always suit you. That's why miss Ren\u00e9e leave us to find our own answers by posing the appropriate questions I highly recommend this book as it's really efficient and interesting Check out my review of this book if you want: https://boookuniverse.wordpress.com/?... ...more This is a book I could just not put down! The author encourages us to think outside the box and not just accept the way things are just because of our circumstances. The book asks us probing questions we would rather not think about, questions about who we are and where we are going. Asking ourselves these questions and really pondering upon them is the only way that meaningful change can take place within us. In short, there is a better way of looking at life and the universe and I would encour This is a book I could just not put down! The author encourages us to think outside the box and not just accept the way things are just because of our circumstances. The book asks us probing questions we would rather not think about, questions about who we are and where we are going. Asking ourselves these questions and really pondering upon them is the only way that meaningful change can take place within us. In short, there is a better way of looking at life and the universe and I would encourage anyone to read this book if they truly want answers. ...more Not your run of the mill self help book, 'On The Other Hand' challenges your thought process and encourages you take a look at the world from a different perspective. This is Renee Paule's first book in which she shows an uncanny mastery of this challenging subject. I got this book as a Goodreads Giveaway. First I would like say thanks to the author <---A>Ren\u00e9e Paule</---A> who kindly sent it to me. To be sincere it took me a time to read it. Sometimes to read so strong truths can be a hard, but as you are reading you realize that really we all need to confront them, if indeed we want to be better as persons, as human beings. As I was reading the book I start feeling a certain clarity, an awareness. I admire the author sincerity on her past and how she was capable of re I got this book as a Goodreads Giveaway. First I would like say thanks to the author Ren\u00e9e Paule who kindly sent it to me. To be sincere it took me a time to read it. Sometimes to read so strong truths can be a hard, but as you are reading you realize that really we all need to confront them, if indeed we want to be better as persons, as human beings. As I was reading the book I start feeling a certain clarity, an awareness. I admire the author sincerity on her past and how she was capable of recovering from her difficulties to be a better person. This book encourage me to judge less the others and to focus in being a better person every day. ...more Check out the complete review at Views She Writes - WordPress Reviews Books which give something to think are always something which I enjoy reading. After reading \u201cJust around the bend\u201d, although it was the second book, I was sure \u201cOn the other hand\u201d would be amazing. And the book not only kept up with the expectations, but it also surpassed it. Renee challenges the way you think about daily activities. It is a fresh outlook to various things happening around us which we ignore most of the times. Check out the complete review at Views She Writes - WordPress Reviews Books which give something to think are always something which I enjoy reading. After reading \u201cJust around the bend\u201d, although it was the second book, I was sure \u201cOn the other hand\u201d would be amazing. And the book not only kept up with the expectations, but it also surpassed it. Renee challenges the way you think about daily activities. It is a fresh outlook to various things happening around us which we ignore most of the times. Right from the catchy titles of the chapters to the absorbing matter written in all the chapters, The book goes from very light subjects like Open mindedness and interaction to very heavy topics like Fear of Dying and Who am I? in a very smooth flow. The language is kept very simple for anyone to understand. The words touch your mind in a spark kind of way. The struggles Renee has yet again created a brilliant book filled with creative thoughts about our lives. I hope for everyone to read it and enjoy the thought process that happen with the book. 5 stars for the complete package ...more 'On the other hand' is a book unlike most I have read for a long time. In the Socratic tradition of asking questions, this book is sort of a series of questions to ask yourself to understand your true self. At the face of it, the book may seem like a difficult read as the relentless and unending series of questions and no obvious answers seems to be coming from the author herself. The questions also zoom in and zoom out in a bit of unstructured way. But what is most remarkable for me about this b 'On the other hand' is a book unlike most I have read for a long time. In the Socratic tradition of asking questions, this book is sort of a series of questions to ask yourself to understand your true self. At the face of it, the book may seem like a difficult read as the relentless and unending series of questions and no obvious answers seems to be coming from the author herself. The questions also zoom in and zoom out in a bit of unstructured way. But what is most remarkable for me about this book is actually Renee's own background and how she has managed to stay so positive, curious, and open-minded despite that. In essence, that's the true testament to the power of this book. ...more A compelling and thought provoking read. Renee Paule serves up a range of insightful thoughts that offer the reader the chance to challenge their preconceptions, and look at life from a different perspective. Most definitely not your run of the mill self help book. <+++>On the Other Hand: The Little Anthology of Big Questions</+++> This book is like a slow incubator, fiercely honest. Why we do what we do and why do we feel comfortable doing it? Rules, traditions? On the Other Hand raises more questions than it answers. Recommended to teenagers and young adult. I received a free copy of this book as a Goodreads giveaway This turned out to be a rather different book to what I had expected and was not quite as easy a read as I had imagined. Challenging and thought-provoking, I found it needed a higher level of focus and concentration than I had anticipated. It took me a while to get through it and found it easier to digest and understand when I read it during the day without distractions. On the whole a good read, although it won\u2019t suit everyone, especiall I received a free copy of this book as a Goodreads giveaway This turned out to be a rather different book to what I had expected and was not quite as easy a read as I had imagined. Challenging and thought-provoking, I found it needed a higher level of focus and concentration than I had anticipated. It took me a while to get through it and found it easier to digest and understand when I read it during the day without distractions. On the whole a good read, although it won\u2019t suit everyone, especially if you don\u2019t like thinking. ...more<---C>Ren\u00e9e Paule</---C>", "Title": "On the Other Hand: The Little Anthology of Big Questions"},
