{"Comments": "This is one of my top-ten favorite books of all time. An extremely compelling memoir, well-written, poignant but not maudlin or precious. I've read it twice and feel another reread coming on. The brutal honesty in this story is startling, and Fuller does not set out to insert political or social critique into her story. This is probably unsettling for readers who come face-to-face with her family's colonialist attitudes and expect to hear her criticize and critique them. However, I prefer that Fu This is one of my top-ten favorite books of all time. An extremely compelling memoir, well-written, poignant but not maudlin or precious. I've read it twice and feel another reread coming on. The brutal honesty in this story is startling, and Fuller does not set out to insert political or social critique into her story. This is probably unsettling for readers who come face-to-face with her family's colonialist attitudes and expect to hear her criticize and critique them. However, I prefer that Fuller let the story stand on its own. The book doesn't set out to dissect \"Issues,\" but rather to tell one particular- and it is a particularly heartbreaking, frightening, disturbing, visceral, and funny one- story. ...more I almost gave this book four stars because it was very well-written and evocative. But I just never felt much of a connection to the book or to any of the characters. The author's writing skill made it a pleasant enough read - at least, pleasant enough to finish. But it definitely wasn't a can't-put-it-down kind of book. If I had to give concrete criticisms of the book, the main one would be that she doesn't develop any characters outside of her immediately family (in fact, it seemed her family I almost gave this book four stars because it was very well-written and evocative. But I just never felt much of a connection to the book or to any of the characters. The author's writing skill made it a pleasant enough read - at least, pleasant enough to finish. But it definitely wasn't a can't-put-it-down kind of book. If I had to give concrete criticisms of the book, the main one would be that she doesn't develop any characters outside of her immediately family (in fact, it seemed her family didn't have any substantial relationships with anyone,<---M> other than each other)</---M>, and even those characters could use a bit more context. (Why were they in Africa? I mean, what really motivated them to keep slogging it out in Africa, really? Where did their racism come from? How did she feel about their racism? How did her parents meet and what ties did either of them have to Africa before deciding to raise their kids there? What motivated them to raise children in a country in which a civil war was raging?) On the other hand, she writes terrific dialogue and her sensory descriptions of Africa made me feel like I was there. ...more The memoirs of the childhood of a white girl (Alexandra, known as Bobo), raised on African farms in the 1970s and 1980s, along with her sister, Van(essa). But it's not a gilded, ex-pat life: her parents lose their farm in forced land distribution, after which they are itinerant farm managers, who move where the work is, often to disease-ridden and war-torn areas. They also have their own problems with bereavement and alcohol. It is perhaps closer to misery lit, although the tone is mostly light, The memoirs of the childhood of a white girl (Alexandra, known as Bobo), raised on African farms in the 1970s and 1980s, along with her sister, Van(essa). But it's not a gilded, ex-pat life: her parents lose their farm in forced land distribution, after which they are itinerant farm managers, who move where the work is, often to disease-ridden and war-torn areas. They also have their own problems with bereavement and alcohol. It is perhaps closer to misery lit, although the tone is mostly light, and the worst episodes glossed over. It is told in a chatty and slightly childish and rambling style (she is a child for most of the book), mostly in the present tense. This means the precise sequence of events is not always clear, but overall, it is an endearing insight into some troubled lives and times. It does rather fizzle out at the end, though. QUOTIDIAN DANGER The opening is a startling demonstration of how mundane life-threatening danger can become. \"Mum says, 'Don't come creeping into our room at night.' They sleep with loaded guns beside them...<---F> 'Why not?' 'We might shoot you</---F>.'\" Not very reassuring to a small child who might want a parent at night. By the age of 5, all children are taught to handle a gun and shoot to kill. There are many more examples throughout the book. For instance, the parents buy a mine-proofed Land Rover with a siren \"to scare terrorists\", but actually its only use is \"to announce their arrival at parties\". At the airport, \"officials wave their guns at me, casually hostile\". IDENTITY AND NOT BELONGING The Fullers are white and apparently upper middle class, but heavily in debt (though they manage to pay school fees). Mum says \"We have breeding... which is better than having money\", and they're pretty bad at managing what little money they do have. Often, they live in homes that are really dilapidated and lacking basic facilities. Bobo feels neither African (where she spends most of her childhood) nor British (where she was born). At a mixed race primary school, she is teased for being sunburnt and asked \"Where are you from originally ?\" and when at a white school that then admits African children, learns what it is like to be excluded by language (they talk Shona to each other). She is also very aware of her family's thick lips, contrasting with their pale skin and blonde hair. RACE One aspect that some have objected to is the attitude and language relating to the Africans. However, as I read it, Fuller is merely describing how things really were: casual, and sometimes benevolent racism were the norm. As a small child, she resists punishment by saying \"Then I'll fire you\", which is awful, but reflects a degree of truth, and similarly, her disgust at using a cup that might have been used by an African is a learned reaction. However, as she grows older and more questioning, it's clear she is no racist. It would be very sad if fear of offence made it impossible to describe the past honestly, though the list of terms by which white Rhodesians referred to black ones might be unnecessary. I suppose you could argue she should have done more to challenge the views around her, such as when Mum is bemoaning the fact that she wants just one country in Africa to stay white-run, but she was only a child at this point. In her parents' defence, they treated their African staff pretty well, including providing free first aid help, despite the fact they were so short of money they had to pawn Mum's jewellery to buy seed each year, then claim it back if the harvest was good. \"When our tobacco sells well, we are rich for a day.\" Only a day. What to make of an observation like this? \"Africans whose hatred reflects the sun like a mirror into our faces, impossible to ignore.\" There is beautifully written passage describing driving through a European settlement and then Tribal Trust Lands: \"there are flowering shrubs and trees... planted at picturesque intervals. The verges of the road have been mown to reveal neat, upright barbed-wire fencing and fields of army-straight tobacco... or placidly grazing cattle shiny and plump with sweet pasture. In contrast, the tribal lands \"are blown clear of vegetation. Spiky euphorbia hedges which bleed poisonous, burning milk when their stems are broken poke greenly out of otherwise barren, worn soil. The schools wear the blank faces of war buildings, their windows blown blind by rocks or guns or mortars. Their plaster is an acne of bullet marks. The huts and small houses crouch open and vulnerable... Children and chickens and dos scratch in the red, raw soil and stare at us as we drive thought their open, eroding lives.\" Those are not the words of a racist. DEPRESSION, TRAUMA, ALCOHOLISM There are some very dark episodes (including deaths), and at one point, even the dogs are depressed, and yet the book itself is not depressing. For instance, the four stages of Mum's drunken behaviour in front of visitors is treated humourously. More troublingly, a victim of a sexual assault is just told not to exaggerate, and the whole thing brushed away. There is equally casual acceptance of the children smoking and drinking from a young age. There is fun, but also a lack of overt love, particularly touching (the many dogs are far luckier in this respect!); aged only 7, Bobo notes \"Mum hardly even lets me hold her hand\". That is a legacy of multiple hurt and grief - and the consequent problems. Then there is a life-changing tragedy, for which Bobo feels responsible: \"My life is sliced in half\". Afterwards, \"Mum and Dad's joyful careless embrace of life is sucked away, like water swirling down a drain.\" A later tragedy has more severe consequences, and these passages are described more painfully: * \"In the morning, when she's just on the pills, she's very sleepy and calm and slow and deliberate, like someone who isn't sure where her body ends and the world starts.\" * \"When Mum is drugged and sad and singing... it is a contained, soggy madness\" but then \"it starts to get hard for me to know mere Mum's madness ends and the world's madness begins.\" * \"She hardly bothers to blink, it's as if she's a fish in the dry season, in the dried-up bottom of a cracking river bed, waiting for rain to come and bring her to life.\" * \"Mum smiles, but... it's a slipping and damp thing she's doing with her lips which looks as much as if she's lost control of her mouth as anything else.\" * \"Her sentences and thoughts are interrupted by the cries of her dead babies.\" * \"To leave a child in an unmarked grave is asking for trouble.\" * She is grieving \"with her mind (which is unhinged) and her body (which is alarming and leaking)\". OTHER QUOTATIONS * A new home \"held a green-leafy lie of prosperity in its jewelled fist\". * When they stop a journey at a fancy hotels, the opulence is unfamiliar: \"the chairs were swallowingly soft\". * \"The first rains... were still deciding what sort of season to create.\" * \"It is so hot outside that the flamboyant tree outside cracks to itself, as if already anticipating how it will feel to be on fire... swollen clouds scrape purple fat bellies on the tops of the surrounding hills.\" * Captured wild cattle give \"reluctant milk\" and even after adding Milo milkshake powder, \"nothing can disguise the taste of the reluctant milk\". * A German aid worker \"is keen on saving the environment, which, until then, I had not noticed needed saving\". * The ex-pat lives were typically \"extra-marital, almost-incestuous affairs bred from heat and boredom and drink.\" When they go to England for good, they remember Africa with \"a fondness born of distance and the tangy reminder of a gin-and-tonic evening\". ...more Whenever I read an autobiography, I compare my childhood experiences with those of the author. What was happening in my life at that age? How would I have behaved under those circumstances? With this book, the comparisons were difficult to make. I can't imagine growing up amid so much tumult and violence and uncertainty. Not to mention numerous inconveniences and an abundance of creepy and dangerous vermin. I'm glad I didn't grow up in a place where terrorists were so common that they were refer Whenever I read an autobiography, I compare my childhood experiences with those of the author. What was happening in my life at that age? How would I have behaved under those circumstances? With this book, the comparisons were difficult to make. I can't imagine growing up amid so much tumult and violence and uncertainty. Not to mention numerous inconveniences and an abundance of creepy and dangerous vermin. I'm glad I didn't grow up in a place where terrorists were so common that they were referred to as \"terrs.\" And scorpions were so common that they called them \"scorps.\" And I'm quite grateful that my first day of school photo does not feature me clutching an Uzi for protection. Alexandra \"Bobo\" Fuller writes about her experiences in a strangely unsentimental, matter-of-fact way. Be it fear, fun, or heartbreaking loss, all is recorded with equal detachment. Maybe it's just her writing style, but I wondered if a young life filled with danger and uncertainty and pain taught her not to feel anything too deeply. If Fuller's family and friends are any indication, it would appear that white people can only cope with African life through heavy boozing. Full-grown adults with families drink like college boys on a bender! I guess it helps them handle the stress and loneliness and tolerate the intense heat. But it made me a little queasy thinking about the hangovers they must have suffered. I did like the story about the exploding Christmas cake, though. Nothing like a little flambe to brighten your holiday. HA! For me the book was both informative and entertaining. Also quite sad at times, but never melodramatically so. It opened my eyes to still more of the complexities that are the very definition of Africa. The residual colonial attitudes were also quite a revelation to me. The writing is excellent, if a little disjointed at times. It's written mostly in present tense, the curse of my existence. If not for that, I might have gone with five stars. ...more What a fantastic read! <---A>Alexandra Fuller</---A> took me on an amazing journey through her younger years growing up in Africa as a poor white girl. Her parents are expats from Britain who moved in the late 60's to work as farm managers. This memoir details her life from that time right up to the late 90's, a time period when Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) was at war fighting for independence from Britain. I found it fascinating to not only read of the hellish conditions, but also how this young girl named Bobo, What a fantastic read! Alexandra Fuller took me on an amazing journey through her younger years growing up in Africa as a poor white girl. Her parents are expats from Britain who moved in the late 60's to work as farm managers. This memoir details her life from that time right up to the late 90's, a time period when Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) was at war fighting for independence from Britain. I found it fascinating to not only read of the hellish conditions, but also how this young girl named Bobo, deals with so many challenges. She brought me right into her world, one more concerned with family, and her daily life. Only a child can see the humor in situations that would scare the crap out of me. So this was not a somber read at all. As a kid, you have no idea your parents are racist, so it can be uncomfortable to read of this families ideas of blacks, but also deeply informing. Truly, this memoir has it all, a family on the wrong side of history, a mothers mental health issues, constant loss, death, relocating, and a vivid picture of the land. The descriptions of the land were so dynamic and realistic I will never forget them. I became a part of this book, such a rare feeling! ...more I totally, TOTALLY loved this book!!!!! I know I tshould think a bit before I write something, but I am carried away by my emotions. I love the family, all of them. How can I love them, they are so very far from any way I could live my own life, but nevertheless I love them to pieces. Their lives are hard, but they get through, one step at a time. They know what is important. They don't demand too much. Oh the mother, my heart bled for her. I know she is manic, but who wouldn't be - living throu I totally, TOTALLY loved this book!!!!! I know I tshould think a bit before I write something, but I am carried away by my emotions. I love the family, all of them. How can I love them, they are so very far from any way I could live my own life, but nevertheless I love them to pieces. Their lives are hard, but they get through, one step at a time. They know what is important. They don't demand too much. Oh the mother, my heart bled for her. I know she is manic, but who wouldn't be - living through what she does?! Africa is hard, but on the other side I grew to truly love it. OK, I couldn't live there but this author made me love Africa and that is strange because it has so many problems, there is so much wrong, so much that has to be fixed. The dialog is beautiful: Mum has been diagnosed with manic depression. She says. 'All of us are mad,' and then adds, smiling, 'but I am the only one with a certificate to prove it.' The photos are straight from the family album. You see the kids, the one's that survive, growing up. I dye Mum's hair a streaky porcupine blonde and shave my legs just to see if I need to. Vanessa experiments with eye shadow and looks as if she has been punched. I try and make meringues and the resulting glue is eaten clench-jawed dutifulness by my family. Mum encourages me not to waste precious eggs on any more cooking projects. I learn what I hope are the words to Bizet's Carmen and sing the entire opera to the dogs. ..... I smoke in front of the mirror and try to look like a hardened sex goddess. Vanessa declares, hopelessly that she is thinking of running away from home. I stare out at the nothingness into which she would run and say, 'I'll come with you.' Mum says, 'Me too.' And then when the author gets married, on the way to the ceremony, sitting in the car with her father who is now driving and has just handed her a gin and tonic to combat both nerves and a persistent case of malaria, her father says, \"You're not bad looking once they scrape the mud off you and put you in a dress.\" This family is so real. You learn to love Africa, despite all its troubles. As the tension builds in the novel the author knows when it has reached the breaking point and throws in some humor. As in life, when times are bad, you pick up the pieces, take a deep breath and go one. What other choice do you have? And of course you learn about Rhodesia, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi. ...more The first few lines are gripping, to say the least. Mom says, \"Don't come creeping into our room at night.\" They sleep with loaded guns beside them on the bedside rugs. She says, \"Don't startle us when we're sleeping.\" \"Why not?\" \"We might shoot you.\" \"Oh.\" Just a taste of what life was like for young Alexandra \"Bobo\" Fuller. Living in a house with no electricity, Fuller recounted how she and her sister employed the \"buddy system\" to use the bathroom at night. One girl used the toilet while the other he The first few lines are gripping, to say the least. Mom says, \"Don't come creeping into our room at night.\" They sleep with loaded guns beside them on the bedside rugs. She says, \"Don't startle us when we're sleeping.\" \"Why not?\" \"We might shoot you.\" \"Oh.\" Just a taste of what life was like for young Alexandra \"Bobo\" Fuller. Living in a house with no electricity, Fuller recounted how she and her sister employed the \"buddy system\" to use the bathroom at night. One girl used the toilet while the other held a candle high to check for \"snakes and scorpions and baboon spiders.\" \"I have my feet off the floor when I pee.\" Um...baboon spiders? Eek! In 1974, when many white residents were fleeing Africa, Fuller's parents bought a farm smack dab in the middle of twin civil wars in Rhodesia and Mozambique. They erected a huge fence, topped by barbed wire, and adopted a pack of dogs. They drove around in mine-proofed Land Rovers. Mama was packin' an Uzi. Fuller's Mum is really the star of this show. Alcoholic and racist, she bemoaned, \"Look, we fought to keep ONE country in Africa white-run...\" Her attitudes seem shocking today, but were sadly shared by many at the time. She had an abiding respect for Africa, but not its people. This is a gritty, \"warts and all\" memoir. Fuller's early years were anything but dull. But be warned... if tales of irresponsible parenting and child endangerment drive you up a wall...you should probably stay FAR away from THIS book. ...more A well-written memoir that was fascinating if only because the author is exactly my age, born the year I was born, and lived a life so very different from my own. As she described each stage of her upbringing, I found myself thinking about what I had been doing at that same age and marveling that the two of us could possibly have occupied the same world at the same time. I envy her when I should probably not -- her life has clearly not been easy, but it has been rich with experiences. The other A well-written memoir that was fascinating if only because the author is exactly my age, born the year I was born, and lived a life so very different from my own. As she described each stage of her upbringing, I found myself thinking about what I had been doing at that same age and marveling that the two of us could possibly have occupied the same world at the same time. I envy her when I should probably not -- her life has clearly not been easy, but it has been rich with experiences. The other reason I really enjoyed this book was the sometimes startlingly candid and dispassionate voice of the narration. There's a lot of beauty in this prose...even the most terrible parts of her story are beautifully rendered. Her style shows a restraint that I fully appreciate (others may find it disquieting). She unflinchingly describes her life and does not apologize for it nor cheapen it by gaudily harping on lessons she has learned. She gives the reader credit for being able to figure it out. Sometimes quite funny. Often very sad. In the end, uplifting and powerful. Good stuff. ...more As an avid reader, it often surprises people when they learn that I rarely re-read books. I know that a lot of people find great enjoyment from repeat readings, discovering new layers to the story and gaining a better understanding of the book. I look at it a bit differently. There are so many wonderful books out there and I'll never be able to read them all. Usually when I choose to re-read a book I feel like I'm wasting time that could be devoted to reading a new book. My reason for sharing th As an avid reader, it often surprises people when they learn that I rarely re-read books. I know that a lot of people find great enjoyment from repeat readings, discovering new layers to the story and gaining a better understanding of the book. I look at it a bit differently. There are so many wonderful books out there and I'll never be able to read them all. Usually when I choose to re-read a book I feel like I'm wasting time that could be devoted to reading a new book. My reason for sharing this is simple... I have read <+++>Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight</+++> not just once, not just twice, but three times! There is no stronger endorsement I personally can give. Alexander Fuller takes risks with her writing and grammar. I found myself marveling at her bravery. It's always risky to deviate from standard writing format. Some people can be put off immediately, but I found it charming. The ingredients necessary for a great memoir are all present. The reader is transported back in time. I felt as if I were in Africa, experiencing Alexander's life for myself. She doesn't shy away from showing her family for who they are, warts and all. The book cycles from heartbreaking episodes to moments of crystal clear beauty and life affirming incidents. It's a very sensual book, her sharp prose conjuring up the sights and smells of the African countryside so vividly that I actually missed it when the book was over. Hence the duplicate readings. I wanted to go back, even though I knew I'd have to experience the heartbreak again, because it was a place I wanted to visit one more time. ...more 4.75 What makes <+++>Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight</+++> an outstanding memoir was Fuller's interesting choice to tell the story of growing up as an \"expat-like-us\" in Africa from a child's POV and the fact she did not tie herself to recounting her childhood in a linear manner. The latter was effective since Fuller doesn't get bogged down in the day-to-day mendacity that is life and she can focus on events and stories that give a full picture to growing up (white) in Africa. Her choice to use a child 4.75 What makes Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight an outstanding memoir was Fuller's interesting choice to tell the story of growing up as an \"expat-like-us\" in Africa from a child's POV and the fact she did not tie herself to recounting her childhood in a linear manner. The latter was effective since Fuller doesn't get bogged down in the day-to-day mendacity that is life and she can focus on events and stories that give a full picture to growing up (white) in Africa. Her choice to use a child's POV is incredibly clever since it allows her to touch on issues like racism, post-colonialism, and dysfunctional family dynamics without needing to present apologies, excuses, or really any editorializing and that let's her experience shine through. What makes Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight an outstanding book is Fuller's feel for language. Her feel for dialogue (naturally reconstructed, but incredibly realistic) is outstanding and her rendering of a child's understanding of language is superb. She is also a hell of a writer. My only complaint was the ending -- it was far too abrupt. We suddenly jump ahead to her wedding, which wouldn't be horrible, except that suddenly 10 years (or something) have passed since the last event she recounts and since none of the memoir is written from an adult perspective, this relatively short portion is jarring. ...more An autobiography about growing up in colonial Rhodesia (present-day Zimbabwe). Two things made me curious about this book: it's from the perspective of the child of colonialists, and the events are fairly recent as it takes place in the 1970's-1990's. The voice is that of a relatively innocent young girl (as innocent as you can be in midst of war and dire economic circumstances) and she's allowed to tell her childhood as she saw it, good and bad. I've had fairly mixed feelings about this book: I w An autobiography about growing up in colonial Rhodesia (present-day Zimbabwe). Two things made me curious about this book: it's from the perspective of the child of colonialists, and the events are fairly recent as it takes place in the 1970's-1990's. The voice is that of a relatively innocent young girl (as innocent as you can be in midst of war and dire economic circumstances) and she's allowed to tell her childhood as she saw it, good and bad. I've had fairly mixed feelings about this book: I would like to know how she as an adult views her racist parents, who despite poverty and alcoholism still viewed themselves as superior purely based on their race, eg that it was natural and proper for them to have servants. When did she come to realize that the rest of the world doesn't necessarily share that view? Did it ever occur to her while growing up? On the other hand, I was pleased that she allowed any afterthoughts or afterconstructions to be kept out...it is meant to be a childhood memoir. I do hope she writes another, a more reflective book later on. ...more \u201c I am African by accident, not by birth. So while soul, heart, and the bent of my mind are African, my skin blaringly begs to differ and is resolutely white. And while I insist on my Africanness (if such a singular thing can exist on such a vast and varied continent), I am forced to acknowledge that almost half my life in Africa was realized in a bubble of Anglocentricity, as if black Africans had not culture worth noticing and as if they did not exist except as servants and (more dangerously) a \u201c I am African by accident, not by birth. So while soul, heart, and the bent of my mind are African, my skin blaringly begs to differ and is resolutely white. And while I insist on my Africanness (if such a singular thing can exist on such a vast and varied continent), I am forced to acknowledge that almost half my life in Africa was realized in a bubble of Anglocentricity, as if black Africans had not culture worth noticing and as if they did not exist except as servants and (more dangerously) as terrorists. \u201d I picked up this book several years ago with the hope that it might help me make sense of my own relationship to Africa \u2013 the strong but confusing bonds that arise from childhood immersion and are easily discounted among adults but can never quite be brushed aside. At first, it seemed that the entire book and the author herself would have laughed mockingly at that quaint desire for commonality. Alexandra Fuller\u2019s African childhood was much more eventful and harrowing than my own: growing up a desperately poor farmer\u2019s daughter in the epicenter of the Rhodesian war for independence, with Uzis a more common accessory than handbags, and a dysfunctional, alcoholic, supremacist, emotionally remote family, before bouncing around ex-British colonial East Africa as tenant farm managers. I don\u2019t enjoy immersing myself amid characters that are depressed, lost, or unmoored, so there were a couple of points where I might have abandoned the book had it not been for the funny, personable dialogue of the children trying to make sense of their conditions and the emotions of the adults. But then I realized that the book is a love letter. By opting not to romanticize her family life, Fuller allowed her Mum, Dad, and older sister to shine as \u201chard-living, glamorous, intemperate, intelligent, racist, \u2026 taciturn, capable, [and] self-reliant.\u201d Their frequent moves and their physical and racial isolation force the family to learn to accommodate each other\u2019s flaws/quirks, and they become very tight-knit because of (not in spite of) their individual eccentricities. They love each other not because they as individuals are sympathetic, but because together they survived both Africa and a tumultuous family life. Had Fuller chosen to whitewash or idealize her family life, she would have deprived them of this shared experience and been left with a cardboard cutout of the real thing. It\u2019s also a love letter to the land, using words far more poignant and evocative than those that Margaret Mitchell puts in Scarlett O\u2019Hara\u2019s mouth. Given the surface-level dissonance of a white family claiming an African identity, Fuller works hard to demonstrate how their roots, their loyalty, even their identities are all inexorably bound to the earth. Her descriptions of sounds, smells, and miscellaneous details were truer than true and made me ache with memory. The rainy season that brought with it gray solid sheets of water which rendered roads as thick and sticky as porridge. Weekend holidays on the shores of Lake Malawi running wild with expats-like-us while burning to a crisp. The mosquito coils, the baobab trees, the explosion of day birds, the greasy fish stews over rice, the smells of black tea, cut tobacco, fresh fire, old sweat, young grass. Hauntingly evocative. In her epilogue (well, the \u201cReader\u2019s Guide\u201d published at the end of the Random House edition), Fuller recounts how she repeatedly tried to write a fictionalized version of her childhood, failing in part because her adult values demanded that she \u201cwrite into full life the voices of the black men, women, and children who had been silenced by years of oppression,\u201d even though her childhood had included no such voices. In the end, she opted to write her life exactly as it had been, racist elements and all, and included a suggested reading list at the end for the \u201cpowerful, beautiful, often sly and funny literature of black Africa.\u201d Though criticized by some other reviewers, this choice to consciously stare everyday white supremacy straight in the face, instead of caricaturizing it or demonizing it, strikes me both as brave and as an important contribution to post-colonial storytelling. ...more I read an article by a book reviewer a little while ago in which they talked about how sick they were of \"growing up in fill-in-the-blank\" books and wished people would be more original. I think that's incredibly misguided. Growing up isn't a cliche, it's just something that happens a lot that's important. So people are going to write about it, and good for them. They don't usually write about it this well though. This is one of those books that tops out on many different levels at the same time- I read an article by a book reviewer a little while ago in which they talked about how sick they were of \"growing up in fill-in-the-blank\" books and wished people would be more original. I think that's incredibly misguided. Growing up isn't a cliche, it's just something that happens a lot that's important. So people are going to write about it, and good for them. They don't usually write about it this well though. This is one of those books that tops out on many different levels at the same time- the language is beautiful, the dialogue is great, the people come alive for you, it's hilarious, it's sad, it's beautiful, and it deals with the subject of entrenched racism incredibly well, by simply telling the truth about how people were and what people did, without ever stretching to make a political point. It's fantastic, and I'd recommend it to anybody. ...more This is the second book I've read by fuller and I just love her writing style and the story she has to tell. Growing up in the 70's as ex-pats in a country still fighting for it's own independence. Where it's normal to live carrying guns and needing escorts just to go to the local village, in case you drive over landmines or get assaulted. And then to have to grow up in a family as unusual as alexandra's is just such a fascinating story. A mother who is heartbroken from a loss of a child, who dr This is the second book I've read by fuller and I just love her writing style and the story she has to tell. Growing up in the 70's as ex-pats in a country still fighting for it's own independence. Where it's normal to live carrying guns and needing escorts just to go to the local village, in case you drive over landmines or get assaulted. And then to have to grow up in a family as unusual as alexandra's is just such a fascinating story. A mother who is heartbroken from a loss of a child, who drinks to forget, who fights tooth and nail for her family. A dad trying to keep it all together through farming but who is restrained by political changes going on at the time. And two young girls growing up in a changing Africa. It's a brilliant story. ...more I read this book (well, most of it, I admit, I didn't finish and didn't want to) while in training as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Namibia, Africa. I found the writing to be disjointed and the colonial attitudes to be far to accurate. I might have liked it better before going to Africa, before seeing first-hand what various colonizing governments did to people, but maybe not. I might have liked it better if she told her memories in order, rather than jumping around so I had some clue as to where a I read this book (well, most of it, I admit, I didn't finish and didn't want to) while in training as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Namibia, Africa. I found the writing to be disjointed and the colonial attitudes to be far to accurate. I might have liked it better before going to Africa, before seeing first-hand what various colonizing governments did to people, but maybe not. I might have liked it better if she told her memories in order, rather than jumping around so I had some clue as to where and when she was. When I left Africa, I left the book behind for someone else to read (reading material is in short supply for PCV's) and didn't mind a lick that I hadn't finished it. ...more An insanely good read that I had on my bookshelf since I bought it 14 years ago. A memoir about an African childhood--a white girl of low-income farmers that are determined to eek out a living because they love Africa. In the late seventies, early eighties, through much upheaval in several countries. Enjoyed it so much I bought another copy for my niece, who will be traveling to Africa next summer on a fellowship to treat diseases. Really loved it. Her writing is beautiful, descriptive. You can smell and taste Africa; sometimes you can even smell and taste blood and liquor. I would have never have dreamed of reading a book about Africa; the country just never appealed to me. But my friend, who is a teacher, and who lives part time in Africa teaching English at a school she had started, recommended it. It is a true story of a white girl growing up in Africa during the civil war, and it smacks of colonialism and racism, both of which I disli Her writing is beautiful, descriptive. You can smell and taste Africa; sometimes you can even smell and taste blood and liquor. I would have never have dreamed of reading a book about Africa; the country just never appealed to me. But my friend, who is a teacher, and who lives part time in Africa teaching English at a school she had started, recommended it. It is a true story of a white girl growing up in Africa during the civil war, and it smacks of colonialism and racism, both of which I dislike. So I decided to give it a try, and I am glad that I did. It begins in Rhodesia in 1976. Alexandra's parents go to bed at night with guns near their bed, the fear of terrorists is great. The girls take a flashlight to the loo in the night and have fears of snakes, scorpions, baboon spiders, and anything else that may be lurking. Then when they rush back to their bed they take a flying leap from the floor onto the bed because of the fear that a terrorist might be hiding under the bed and just might grab their legs. In my childhood, when I got up in the middle of the night, I would run through the kitchen turning on the lights on the way to the bathroom, and when I returned to my room I would also take a flying leap onto my bed. My fears were not of terrorists but of the bogyman. I knew the bogyman wasn't real, but they knew the terrorist was. The book was hard to enjoy at times since my mind was often on the children, and I kept questioning the parent's reason for bringing them to Africa during such a turbulent time. Then my mind would wander to America, and how parents took their kids across it in covered wagons, and how dangerous that was because sometimes entire families were killed or died from starvation or other causes. I justified Alexandra's parents in this way. Alexandra's mother was an alcoholic, and in time she lost her mind slowly as she lost one child after another. The girls, even at a young age, lived in fear for their lives. It seemed that they were too young to even have to be thinking about death. But they all saw death in many different ways, some deaths being too horrible to have been inscribed into their minds. The slashing of bodies is not a pretty sight. How much can a parent really protect their children? Life on this planet is never without dangers; some people are just more lucky than others to live a life where they have few fears. I look back on my life and realize that there were many times that I could have been killed by something I had done when I was young and wandering the countryside by myself. Life can be so horrible that it is no wonder that many dream of heaven, but Alexandra still dreams of Africa. ...more I am a white South African so in a way I could relate to Fuller. I am currently living in the Netherlands, so reading about the beauty of Africa truly made me feel homesick. I thought this book was going to be about Africa and how she came to see that the White people in Zimbabwe were in fact the 'bad guys' in the war but instead it was really about her family surviving in Africa. I DID enjoy some parts of the story, I thought her family were colourful and although it was a bit dark at times, hu I am a white South African so in a way I could relate to Fuller. I am currently living in the Netherlands, so reading about the beauty of Africa truly made me feel homesick. I thought this book was going to be about Africa and how she came to see that the White people in Zimbabwe were in fact the 'bad guys' in the war but instead it was really about her family surviving in Africa. I DID enjoy some parts of the story, I thought her family were colourful and although it was a bit dark at times, humorous too. I did however, feel that she should have written about how she came to see how racist her family was and how she isn't racist (or is she still?), but there was nothing about that at all. I understand the use of offensive words for effect, but it was excessive and there was no one who berated her for using them. The black people were mere backdrop characters with no personality and were just their servants. It was a little too white african for me to bear, and I am a white African! I know that a lot of white Africans are terrible racists and have servants and are so prejudiced but if she showed us that some white africans (the narrator, perhaps) redeems themselves through seeing black people as human then it would have been a better, more poignant book. Instead there is NO message or moral to the book whatsoever. So although it was good in some parts, it was quite disappointing. ...more \u201cI lie with my arms over the cat, awake and waiting. African dawn, noisy with animals and the servants and Dad waking up and a tractor coughing into life somewhere down at the workshop, clutters into the room.\u201d Another in my 52 Books Around the World Challenge, Don\u2019t Let\u2019s Go to the Dogs Tonight is exactly the kind of book I have been hoping for in my quest to immerse myself in another country. Ms. Fuller grew up in Africa, the opening lines of the book taking place in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). \u201cI lie with my arms over the cat, awake and waiting. African dawn, noisy with animals and the servants and Dad waking up and a tractor coughing into life somewhere down at the workshop, clutters into the room.\u201d Another in my 52 Books Around the World Challenge, Don\u2019t Let\u2019s Go to the Dogs Tonight is exactly the kind of book I have been hoping for in my quest to immerse myself in another country. Ms. Fuller grew up in Africa, the opening lines of the book taking place in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). There is such a sense of place in this memoir, you can see it, smell it, taste it. And be horrified by it. And be in awe of it. And yet, it is not just about Africa. It is about a young girl living, coming of age, and finding out where she belongs. Because a white girl in Africa does not really belong there, and she knows it. But on the other hand, it is home, and even when she is grown and lives an ocean away, her soul longs to return there. It is also about the struggles of one very dysfunctional family. Gun toting, racist, imperialist, daily drunken stuporish, impoverished farmers are Alexandra\u2019s parents. And she loves them, as most children love their parents. Her descriptions are haunting and loving at the same time. Truly glad to have read this book. ...more I read \"Cocktail hour under the tree of Forgetfulness\" first, and found this book too repetitive - although it was written first. I loved Cocktail hour more. However, I enjoyed Alexandra Fuller's candor, honesty, wit and great writing style as usual. I somehow had enough now for a while of all the hardship, tragedy, hurt, and everything else related to the wars in Africa and everywhere else. I have experienced much the same as Alexandra Fuller, being part of the revolutionary times, the same wars I read \"Cocktail hour under the tree of Forgetfulness\" first, and found this book too repetitive - although it was written first. I loved Cocktail hour more. However, I enjoyed Alexandra Fuller's candor, honesty, wit and great writing style as usual. I somehow had enough now for a while of all the hardship, tragedy, hurt, and everything else related to the wars in Africa and everywhere else. I have experienced much the same as Alexandra Fuller, being part of the revolutionary times, the same wars, as she did. I can probably write my own version of it as well, but I don't want to. She says in \"Cocktail hour under the tree of Forgetfulness\" : \" No one starts a war warning that those involved will lose their innocence - that children will definitely die and be forever lost as a result of the conflict; that the war will not end for generations and generations, even after cease-fire have been declared and peace of treaties have been signed.\" I have read quite a few war-related memoirs lately and it is getting to me. I need some balance now. Besides, reading all the books about war, including the Second World War, the Holocaust events, the French Revolution, Africa and Asian wars, we can conclude that nobody should complain since the person standing next to you might have had it much worse (a thought from \"Small Island\" written by Andrea Levy). I will definitely find her other books to read, she's worth it! I just need a break right now. ...more Alexandra Fuller was just three when her parents moved from England to what was then Rhodesia. They bought a farm and stubbornly fought to eek out a living in an environment hostile in more ways than one. Fuller's prose is simple and compelling, addressing with equal clarity the tangible richness of growing up in the African landscape and the perpetual instability brought on by having hard-drinking, openly racist parents who were fighting on the losing side of Zimbabwe's war of independence. Her Alexandra Fuller was just three when her parents moved from England to what was then Rhodesia. They bought a farm and stubbornly fought to eek out a living in an environment hostile in more ways than one. Fuller's prose is simple and compelling, addressing with equal clarity the tangible richness of growing up in the African landscape and the perpetual instability brought on by having hard-drinking, openly racist parents who were fighting on the losing side of Zimbabwe's war of independence. Hers is a unique view into a moment of history, made accessible and almost normal-seeming by the perspective of an uncensoring child. Given the gravity of the events surrounding the Fullers, it's not surprising that their lives are often touched by the kind of tragedy those in more developed places believe they are immune to. Because of this, the story isn't always an easy one to read. But I was never tempted to put the book down because at its core its a story of survival, and I was deeply moved by the intensity with which they managed to do that. ...more There are many reviews that summarize this book, so I won\u2019t repeat them. I found this book slightly anti-African. It left me feeling like; couldn't the British have left Africa alone and let them have their own country? It does not seem right for there to be a British Africa. Seems unnatural. I suppose American Indians may have felt the same way about the early colonists, as well. This was no Out of Africa. Now that was a great book and memoir. Different time period and location, of course. No o There are many reviews that summarize this book, so I won\u2019t repeat them. I found this book slightly anti-African. It left me feeling like; couldn't the British have left Africa alone and let them have their own country? It does not seem right for there to be a British Africa. Seems unnatural. I suppose American Indians may have felt the same way about the early colonists, as well. This was no Out of Africa. Now that was a great book and memoir. Different time period and location, of course. No one reading this book is going to want to jump on a plane and travel Africa. It is an interesting read in light of the present political situation in Zimbabwe with regards to Robert Mugabe. He came into power around 1980 (?)as a hero. Now he seems like a crazy man. This family, the Fullers, live a life on the fringe of mania. So much sadness and 'unsafeness', yet there is a wild excitement of living this African life, struggling to survive with; war, the earth, the political upheaval, and daily living. ...more Alexandra \u201cBobo\u201d Fuller's Don't Let's Go To The Dogs Tonight depicts her childhood experiences growing up white in Africa during the Rhodesian civil war. Her life is an amalgamation of what most people would consider unusual circumstances. Bobo, as Alexandra is called growing up, has one sister, her three other siblings die, two at childbirth, and another drowned in a pool. I found the book engaging and enjoyed reading it. While it was not a page turner that I couldn't put down, each time I did Alexandra \u201cBobo\u201d Fuller's Don't Let's Go To The Dogs Tonight depicts her childhood experiences growing up white in Africa during the Rhodesian civil war. Her life is an amalgamation of what most people would consider unusual circumstances. Bobo, as Alexandra is called growing up, has one sister, her three other siblings die, two at childbirth, and another drowned in a pool. I found the book engaging and enjoyed reading it. While it was not a page turner that I couldn't put down, each time I did pick it up I enjoyed discovering more about her unusual childhood. Many of her stories intrigue me because they are unlike anything that I have ever experienced. For example, she blames herself for the drowning of her sister Olivia which made her mom start to go crazy. She also described the attack of their African maid. \u201cViolet has been sliced, like rashers of bacon, all the way up her thighs, across her belly, her arms, her face\u201d (121). There seemed to never be a dull moment in the Fuller house which made the book interesting. I found this memoir particularly intriguing because of Fuller's location and sense of self. As a white girl living in Rhodesia, \u201cI say, 'I'm African.' But not black\u201d (Fuller, 10). One theme in the book is how she sometimes describes things as the black way or white way. Her parents were racists who were fighting \u201cto keep one country in Africa white-run\u201d (19). Although she lived in Africa it was not until she was over ten years old that she got to meet and eat lunch with, Africans who were not her nannies, cooks, or maids. Therefore, she inherited her parents' way of looking at Africans. Bobo describes her sister \u201cVanessa gets her cat-hooded, African deadpan, not-listening eyes\u201d (74). I think that Fuller's objectives were to share her personal experiences growing up. Even through Africa ruffed her up and provided her with a childhood lifestyle that many grownups could never imagine, she still writes this book as a love story about Africa and her mother. For me, she was successful with her objectives in writing the book. Her use of anecdotes and descriptive language gave me a taste for her unusual life in Africa. I loved Alexandra Fuller's use of descriptive language. This technique lends itself well to memoirs because it helped connect the reader to her Africa. Always using descriptive language, Fuller describes Africa in a matriarchal way: \u201c...is her smell; hot, sweet, smoky, salty, sharp-soft. It is like black tea, cut tobacco, fresh fire, old sweat, young grass\u201d (130). I enjoyed how she was able to intersperse some humor. \u201cI wanted to say, 'Dad was only joking about shooting him. And don't be touchy about being called a baboon. I'm their kid and they call me Bobo. Same thing'\u201d (158). When describing this book to others I realized how depressing many aspects were and it was little bits of humor that made it still enjoyable to read. The evidence that she used to support her claims was persuasive. However, it is impossible for it to be unbiased because it is her memoir and based on her biases and experiences. This is not a bad thing. While she does intersperse a few historical paragraphs throughout the book like the excerpt of Kenyan history and Jomo Kenyatta the, rest is reflecting on her life in Africa. If you want to read an unbiased book, then I suggest that you look outside of the memoir section. ...more If anyone has ever read Isak Dinesen's famed memoir, Out of Africa and enjoyed it, they will surely like Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood. The story line of both memoirs have many parallel components, perhaps with the sole exception being the writing style. Alexandra Fuller's memoir is written in an almost rough, edgy and choppy manner with a halting abruptness to it. Even so, it does not diminish the quality of the work; rather, it enhances the depictions of the fiery or If anyone has ever read Isak Dinesen's famed memoir, Out of Africa and enjoyed it, they will surely like Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood. The story line of both memoirs have many parallel components, perhaps with the sole exception being the writing style. Alexandra Fuller's memoir is written in an almost rough, edgy and choppy manner with a halting abruptness to it. Even so, it does not diminish the quality of the work; rather, it enhances the depictions of the fiery orange and arid African landscapes that are filled to the brim with a sundry lot of wild and dangerous animals, never mind the people and the assorted tribal clans. The jagged writing is almost done deliberately in order for the words to coalesce with the stop-and-go and often turbulent yet loving upbringing that she and her elder sister Vanessa (Van in the book) experienced. Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight is not a memoir in the sense that it is peppered with memories of games of cricket, safaris and a life of African luxuriance. It is not. It is a memoir of perseverance and surviving while struggling first in a war torn country, then having siblings pass away, then coping with a mother's unstoppable grief compounded with temporary alcohol induced madness and lethargy to a whole gamut of happenings that plague the family from one dilapidated African farm to another, from one African country to another, all in the beleaguered search to find a place of stability whereby all of the Fullers could finally call one location home and thus have roots established. Her depictions of Rhodesia, the Rhodesia Bush War, Malawi, Zambia, the house staff, the beloved dogs are acute and transportive, a reader can almost smell and taste what she is recalling. Though there is a lot more in the book than what I have hinted at, the best element of the work is the family themselves. They are colorful characters who are earthy, hardworking and true. Despite all their hardships, the family unit always remained intact. They could all easily have split apart. Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight is laced with hilarious stories, beautiful animals, gracious Africans-and sometimes not-booze, poker, war, ethnicity, travels, heat, doubt, tenacity and childlike wonder and fear. It is a memoir that encapsulates so much. It has a punch to it. Upon finishing it, it made me kind of think to myself, I would like to go to Africa, too, one day. An exceptional memoir and highly recommended. ...more \"But then I notice that it is the deep-black-sky quiet time of night, which is the halfway time between the sun setting and the sun rising when even the night animals are quiet - as if they, like day animals take a break in the middle of their work to rest.\" p. 4 This is one of those books that has been on my TBR list for a long time. Many people had told me how good it is and I am glad that another friend prodded me to read something by Fuller. My friend was extolling the virtues of Fuller's lat \"But then I notice that it is the deep-black-sky quiet time of night, which is the halfway time between the sun setting and the sun rising when even the night animals are quiet - as if they, like day animals take a break in the middle of their work to rest.\" p. 4 This is one of those books that has been on my TBR list for a long time. Many people had told me how good it is and I am glad that another friend prodded me to read something by Fuller. My friend was extolling the virtues of Fuller's latest memoir, but I felt I needed go back to her first book. It took me awhile to understand Fuller and her family. There is so much in this tale that is foreign to me. Fuller grew up in a land that was not hers, but that imprinted itself on her. Her family endured hardship I can't even imagine, but that contributes to her love of Africa. She has to reconcile her parents' view of the countries they lived in with the views of the Zambians, Zimbabweans and the Malawi peoples. What makes this book remarkable is that I feel like Fuller has helped me understand her world. She has made me care about all the people in this book and some of them are not very likeable. This is one of the things I want from my reading. To enter a world that I know nothing about and learn about the world and myself from the reading. Fuller does this admirably. I will be visiting with her again. If you like learning about other peoples lives or how history impacts individuals, I suggest you spend time with Fuller. She is an excellent storyteller. ...more A wonderfully written, inspiring tale of an unconventional childhood and life in Africa. I was particularly struck by the author's notes at the end of the book where she writes that she started out with 8 or 9 failed attempts to write a fictional novel based on her family and youth. I'm very glad she chose to tell her life story as it happened. It is heartbreaking and unforgettable. If nothing else, I have taken away from Alexandra Fuller's book a sense that one can do anything in this world as A wonderfully written, inspiring tale of an unconventional childhood and life in Africa. I was particularly struck by the author's notes at the end of the book where she writes that she started out with 8 or 9 failed attempts to write a fictional novel based on her family and youth. I'm very glad she chose to tell her life story as it happened. It is heartbreaking and unforgettable. If nothing else, I have taken away from Alexandra Fuller's book a sense that one can do anything in this world as long as you have the love and support of those around you. It's also a reminder that every family is like a fingerprint\u2014\u2014completely unique and different from the one next to it. And no family in this world is perfect (or even close), but when there is genuine affection for one another, hope is never lost, even when circumstances have taken a nose dive. There is much to be learned from her story, which she has written with stunning clarity and purpose. I originally bought this book for my sister, and now I have come to love it as my own. ...more Deciding to read more memoirs again, I picked up Alexandra Fuller\u2019s Don\u2019t Let\u2019s Go to the Dogs Tonight (first read about 6 or 7 years ago). I enjoyed this book. Fuller\u2019s memoir quickly draws the reader into her girlhood growing up in Africa with candor and humor. Fuller weaves her story back and forth between an intimate portrait of her family and the violence surrounding them. Violence is not just a backdrop; this violence, and the lack of political stability in the countries she grows up in, s Deciding to read more memoirs again, I picked up Alexandra Fuller\u2019s Don\u2019t Let\u2019s Go to the Dogs Tonight (first read about 6 or 7 years ago). I enjoyed this book. Fuller\u2019s memoir quickly draws the reader into her girlhood growing up in Africa with candor and humor. Fuller weaves her story back and forth between an intimate portrait of her family and the violence surrounding them. Violence is not just a backdrop; this violence, and the lack of political stability in the countries she grows up in, shapes her family (and contributes to her mother\u2019s descent into alcoholism and madness). It doesn\u2019t sound like there should humor here, but Fuller pulls it off without sounding callous and even with a certain amount of warmth. ...more Wow, this is one of the best memoirs I've read in a while! Funny, dark, and searingly honest. Alexandra Fuller (known as \"Bobo\") grew up in Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia, the child of gregarious, charming, heavy-drinking, and deeply racist parents of British descent. What I loved about this book was how richly Ms. Fuller paints the picture of her family and the segregated life of her childhood. There is little political commentary here, and no indictment of colonialism - yet, there is no softenin Wow, this is one of the best memoirs I've read in a while! Funny, dark, and searingly honest. Alexandra Fuller (known as \"Bobo\") grew up in Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia, the child of gregarious, charming, heavy-drinking, and deeply racist parents of British descent. What I loved about this book was how richly Ms. Fuller paints the picture of her family and the segregated life of her childhood. There is little political commentary here, and no indictment of colonialism - yet, there is no softening of the harsh realities of racism, either. Bobo's voice is brutally honest and darkly self-deprecating, and her story is heartbreaking and hilarious. I mean, dang, what a great little book! Highly recommended. Memoir-lovers, check this one out! ...more Since I think I am the last of my group of friends to read this book, it hardly seems necessary to review. All I need to say is the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is that I don't care for present-tense writing. Everything else? Perfect. The tone of this memoir of \"an African childhood\" is set in the very first lines: Mum says, \"Don't come creeping into our room at night.\" They sleep with loaded guns beside them on the bedside rugs. She says, \"Don't startle us when we're sleeping.\" \"Why not?\" \"We might shoot you.\" \"Oh.\" \"By mistake.\" \"Okay.\" As it is, there seems a good enough chance of getting shot on purpose. \"Okay, I won't.\" Dangerous, slightly insane, quite funny. That's her childhood in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). My first impression The tone of this memoir of \"an African childhood\" is set in the very first lines: Mum says, \"Don't come creeping into our room at night.\" They sleep with loaded guns beside them on the bedside rugs. She says, \"Don't startle us when we're sleeping.\" \"Why not?\" \"We might shoot you.\" \"Oh.\" \"By mistake.\" \"Okay.\" As it is, there seems a good enough chance of getting shot on purpose. \"Okay, I won't.\" Dangerous, slightly insane, quite funny. That's her childhood in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). My first impression of her family? Well, I thought it proof that parents are put here on Earth to completely embarrass their children. I know this. Yet I thought Alexandra Fuller's parents really took the prize and it was a good thing she had such a great sense of humor. Fuller doesn't pull any punches--not about the violence, corruption and poverty she often saw in Africa, nor her parents' racist views nor her mother's alcoholism. Yet Fuller said in an afterword that this story \"unfurled as a love story about Africa and my family.\" And by the end I absolutely saw that. Despite mercilessly (and often hilariously) exposing her parents flaws, there's evident affection and respect there, and gradually I began to see why. At the same time, this was just a joy to read. Fuller has a sharp wit, and an eye for details that bring South Central Africa to life--the sounds, the smells, the wildlife, the clashes between her little Eurocentric colonial world and that of native Africans and the ability to reacquaint you with the mindset of childhood. Part travelogue of Zimbabwe, Malawi and Zambia, part history of the waning of the colonial era, part affecting coming of age tale, I was hooked from the beginning and never was there one paragraph I wanted to skip over. I was completely charmed. ...more<---C>Alexandra Fuller</---C>", "Title": "Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight"},
