{"Comments": "These were characters you could really sink your teeth into, and for some reason most of them reminded me of my estranged uncle. I loved the prose, the road trips and the mystery that surrounded this book. Each chapter will leave you wishing for more, but you will have to wait. Read this book before they make it into a movie and ruin it. <---A>Dan Chaon</---A> 's <+++>Await Your Reply</+++> is literary fiction/psychological mystery with identity theft, missing persons and internet scam all rolled into one. A major theme is the enduring discussion of what subsumes the identity of 'self'. I am mindful that to say too much about the plot would constitute a spoiler. The bare bones of the story are: Miles is on a seemingly never-ending search for his ingenious but schizophrenic identical twin, Lucy has just abandoned her real life and is about to embark on a Dan Chaon 's <+++>Await Your Reply</+++> is literary fiction/psychological mystery with identity theft, missing persons and internet scam all rolled into one. A major theme is the enduring discussion of what subsumes the identity of 'self'. I am mindful that to say too much about the plot would constitute a spoiler. The bare bones of the story are: Miles is on a seemingly never-ending search for his ingenious but schizophrenic identical twin, Lucy has just abandoned her real life and is about to embark on another and Ryan has just discovered his whole life has been built on a lie. The novel is punctuated into chapters which deal with each of these characters; it carefully metes out suspense wherein these lives will intersect thus providing the compulsion to see what proves to be a truly unsettling finale. Chaon is a masterful writer; his prose is even, refined and never heavy-handed. This novel is a disturbing, intriguing and compelling read; if it is indication of Dan Chaon's talent, then I definitely want to read more. 4 \u2605. ...more Are writers as a breed more inclined than most to think about identity? It seems like they would be. They\u2019re always trying to get inside characters\u2019 heads. In the case of this particular author add the fact that he grew up as an orphan and maybe it makes sense he\u2019s so good at depicting the mutability of self. In the three different storylines the key figures show both the ability and proclivity to change. It quickly becomes apparent (<---B>and thus does not qualify as a spoiler to mention</---B>) that identi Are writers as a breed more inclined than most to think about identity? It seems like they would be. They\u2019re always trying to get inside characters\u2019 heads. In the case of this particular author add the fact that he grew up as an orphan and maybe it makes sense he\u2019s so good at depicting the mutability of self. In the three different storylines the key figures show both the ability and proclivity to change. It quickly becomes apparent (and thus does not qualify as a spoiler to mention) that identity theft is the main theme. Part of the process is reinventing a new person and another part is dispensing with the old one.<---F> Both offer drama</---F>. One of the more interesting,<---M> though not altogether convincing</---M>, elements of the book was the stark contrast between identical twin brothers. It didn\u2019t seem plausible that one could be so conventionally nice and easily led while the other was so wickedly smart and potentially unbalanced. The differences made for plenty of conflict, though, which we all know from Writing 101 is a good thing. I won\u2019t say anything about the three separate plots or how they tie together, but I will say that it was cleverly done. The writing was excellent throughout. I liked it well enough that I\u2019ll probably try another Dan Chaon book some day, that is, assuming this wasn\u2019t some one-off under a nom de plume. ...more This is a book that begs the question 'Who would you be if you weren't who you are?' We're talking mass quantities of identity theft here, folks. Reinventing oneself has never been easier with the advent of the internet. Fine writing, taut pacing, and questionable characters make for a good story. Ah, 'the grotesque performance of privilege.' Just throwing that last in there because it was so tasty to read. Dan Chaon's novel was reviewed and touted as being a \"book for our age\", giving us the quintessential text on \"identity in the 21st century\" and so on and so forth. The theme of the book intrigued me- identity theft in an age of exponentially boosting computer bureaucracy and the separation from the tangible personhood. Or at least that is what I thought the theme would be. It turned out to be nothing so thrilling or philosophical as that, opting instead to take the low road and use the premise Dan Chaon's novel was reviewed and touted as being a \"book for our age\", giving us the quintessential text on \"identity in the 21st century\" and so on and so forth. The theme of the book intrigued me- identity theft in an age of exponentially boosting computer bureaucracy and the separation from the tangible personhood. Or at least that is what I thought the theme would be. It turned out to be nothing so thrilling or philosophical as that, opting instead to take the low road and use the premise in a very literal manner. No metaphysical turmoil and no existential conundrums to be found within these pages that isn't expressly laid out for the reader in very literal terms. He doesn't allow us to come to our own conclusions or lead us to his, but instead spoon feeds us up until his Sixth Sense styled ending where we are supposed to gasp and be shocked. I wasn't impressed with the author's style, finding it vague and often ambivalent to it's own self, offhand and slight as if it were completely disinterested in the telling of the story. And that came through in spades because it made me feel disinterested. The book is filled with flat, two-dimensional characters, suffering from a severe lack of characterization. Instead of utilizing character actions to give us a sense of self and identity, we are subjected to all sorts of impertinent and unnecessary back stories (however a person can be defined by their pasts, but Chaon uses these stories more as filler in an already thin novel, and it is a stretch to see how these interludes in any way affect the story he is trying to tell). In a story about identity, shouldn't the characters identities and characteristics be the strongest points of the novel? Not here. Not in this book. Instead, Chaon sees himself as a clever master of plot, giving us weak characters in order to drive the story home. And instead of a thrill-ride as some called it we got a lazy Sunday drive to the church social. The book is thin- in it's plot, it's theme and it's characters- a literary anorexic. Added: I would rather not dwell on what would make re book better, but talk about it's theme (which it didn't convey at all in any real sense). However, I am a little too tired to write about it in any real way at the moment. ...more This book was a bit of a disappointment. It came highly recommended from a number of sources and was described as a face-paced thriller of psychological suspence. ??? It does start off with a thriller-esque vibe as one character is rushed to the hospital, his severed hand on ice. From there it turns swiftly into a fine example of a MFA thesis project-cum-blog, with much meandering pondering on the meaning(less) of life, the lack of direction in the Generation Y population, the uselessness of colleg This book was a bit of a disappointment. It came highly recommended from a number of sources and was described as a face-paced thriller of psychological suspence. ??? It does start off with a thriller-esque vibe as one character is rushed to the hospital, his severed hand on ice. From there it turns swiftly into a fine example of a MFA thesis project-cum-blog, with much meandering pondering on the meaning(less) of life, the lack of direction in the Generation Y population, the uselessness of college and the pros and cons of identity theft. Reading this book was a lot like sitting next to a stoned grad student at a coffee house while waiting for an Alanis Morrisette cover artist to take the stage. The only forward momentum of the story came from wanting to know how the disparate characters come together in the denouement. Unfortunately as a long-time thriller reader I was able to see the answer through the literary mechanics so the middle third of the book was mostly an exercise in tedium as I felt the author trying to monkey with the audience and create a false tension. I'm honestly very glad this book appeals to so many people because it seems like a personal tale for the author and judging from the endnotes was the product of a very difficult and emotional time for him. I want the book to be a success so that he can have a sense of good come out of that hard time. I just can't honestly recommend this book as a good thriller or suspense novel. ...more The characters in Dan Chaon's novel \"Await Your Reply\" are all dealing with identity issues. Some of them have been forced to change their identity, some willingly change their identity, and others have no identity unless its in relationship to another person. \"Await Your Reply\" has all the elements of a noir thriller: characters with shady pasts, long cons, femme fatales, mafia hit men, amateur detectives. It has several mysteries working at once, although at the outset, the reader intuitively k The characters in Dan Chaon's novel \"Await Your Reply\" are all dealing with identity issues. Some of them have been forced to change their identity, some willingly change their identity, and others have no identity unless its in relationship to another person. \"Await Your Reply\" has all the elements of a noir thriller: characters with shady pasts, long cons, femme fatales, mafia hit men, amateur detectives. It has several mysteries working at once, although at the outset, the reader intuitively knows that there is only one mystery at the heart of the novel that will connect all of them. There is, of course, the plot twist at the denouement---one that clever readers may have already guessed at long before but is still somewhat jarring. Still, even with all the elements of a noir thriller, Chaon's novel isn't the flash-bang type of thriller. This is not the Lee Child or Michael Connelly type of thriller, with exciting shoot-outs, car chases, steamy bedroom scenes, or even somewhat tidy endings. There is not a lot of action in Chaon's novel. There is some suspense, but it is more psychological and cerebral than physical. Arguably, there isn't a whole hell of a lot of closure in the end. None of these are, in any way, negatives, by the way. Chaon isn't going for a traditional noir thriller, so his overturning of our expectations is par for the course. There are essentially three stories in \"Await Your Reply\". In one, a young boy named Ryan is on the lam with his father, a small-time hustler who is trying to educate his son on the art of the long con. In another, a teenager named Lucy has run away from home with her high school history teacher, Mr. Orson. In the third story, a man named Miles searches the country for his long-lost twin brother, Hayden. The stories alternate evenly between the three. As the novel progresses, it becomes clear how the stories are inter-connected and how the lives of the characters are intertwined, but it is never entirely clear as to what is actually happening until the very end. Of course, even the end leaves more questions than it answers, but Chaon isn't setting out to answer all the questions. Human behavior and motivations are too messy and complicated to figure out. Sometimes, we all do and say things for reasons that are unclear even to ourselves. In the end, a police report or a detective's findings may figure out the who, what, and how, but the why is oftentimes forever a mystery. ...more The story starts with three seemingly unconnected narratives. First, that of Ryan, who in the opening scene is being rushed to the hospital with his detached hand. Then also Lucy, recent high school grad running away with her history teacher. Finally, there's Miles, searching for his missing twin brother. What propels you through the book is wanting to find out how these three connect up. I had some guesses, some right, but didn't get quite how all they all fitted till the end--the author says i The story starts with three seemingly unconnected narratives. First, that of Ryan, who in the opening scene is being rushed to the hospital with his detached hand. Then also Lucy, recent high school grad running away with her history teacher. Finally, there's Miles, searching for his missing twin brother. What propels you through the book is wanting to find out how these three connect up. I had some guesses, some right, but didn't get quite how all they all fitted till the end--the author says it was the same for him, that he wrote it with those first scenes and characters in mind, then wrote them trying to figure out how they connect--maybe that helped in keeping the sense of mystery, although in the end it does fit so nicely with such a firm click there's a sense of inevitability. Besides the mystery, the theme of identity keeps recurring in this novel in interesting ways as both the key to the mystery but in a way that also has you turning in your mind what makes up your own identity. The way identity theft in the information age plays into this makes this a very contemporary novel, one that couldn't have been written ten years ago. Although Lucy and Ryan have less than nice aspects to their characters, I did come to care for them (and Miles) and that was another source of suspense as you watch them get deeper into what you worry cannot end well. The prose is elegantly clean and sucked me in. One of those novels you better pick up when you can clear some hours to spend--because you won't want to put it down. ...more This is an odd book. It's well written, interesting, and the characters are very well drawn. But it's confusing and has the worst ending of any book I think I have ever read. It is mostly concerned with identity theft. Most of the characters are involved with various scams to empty people bank accounts. There are some Russians who come into it (no explanation what that's all about). The main villain is the schizophrenic twin brother of one of the main characters who has spent his life trying t This is an odd book. It's well written, interesting, and the characters are very well drawn. But it's confusing and has the worst ending of any book I think I have ever read. It is mostly concerned with identity theft. Most of the characters are involved with various scams to empty people bank accounts. There are some Russians who come into it (no explanation what that's all about). The main villain is the schizophrenic twin brother of one of the main characters who has spent his life trying to track him down. The villain twin switches identities at the drop of a hat - in fact through most of the story you have no idea that he's one of the main characters who has assumed the identity of one of the more sympathetic characters. If this review seems confused, it's because the book is confused. What ever happened to telling a straight story - this this this and then that happened and that resulted in.... Evidently the trend is to confuse the reader so completely her has no idea what he's reading. But not every author is John Fowels or every book the Magus. Maybe this was only part one of the book and he'll come back and tell us what the Russians had to do with it and what happened to Rachel and how Lucy got out of Africa..... Although I doubt if I'll read anything by him again. You only get one chance. ...more Await Your Reply examines the question of identity in old and new ways. Throughout the book there's a philosophical undercurrent dealing with that ancient question of what constitutes a \"self.\" The plot ties into that question using the more recent issue of identity theft, which allows people to erase their life histories and \"be\" an entirely different person. The exploration of these themes was, for me, the most appealing thing about the book. The switches and stumbles of the characters made me Await Your Reply examines the question of identity in old and new ways. Throughout the book there's a philosophical undercurrent dealing with that ancient question of what constitutes a \"self.\" The plot ties into that question using the more recent issue of identity theft, which allows people to erase their life histories and \"be\" an entirely different person. The exploration of these themes was, for me, the most appealing thing about the book. The switches and stumbles of the characters made me think deep thoughts. Who are you, really, if you strip away all identifying markers? Are you still the same person if you abandon all the touchstones of your selfhood? Would I want to walk away from my entire life? Just ditch everyone and everything, like these characters do? (The answer is NO . I gotta be me, for better or worse.) The story and its resolution (or lack of one) was a bit of a let-down. The writing is excellent. The characters are original and well defined. But as I began reading, I felt like I'd been duped. It's supposed to be a novel. In reality, it's three fragmented novellas that are supposed to converge and never quite do so in any satisfying way. You get alternating chapters of the three stories, which appear to be unrelated for most of the book. The connection is revealed (sort of) by the end. But it seemed to me that Chaon had a superb idea for an elaborate plot and couldn't quite find a way to bring it to a grand conclusion. All my cluck-clucking aside, I do recommend reading the book. It's interesting and thought provoking, and at times humorous. I loved the irony of identity thieves having their stolen identities stolen from them. My big crack-up moment was when Ryan says: \"What do you mean, 'stolen' your identity? Which one?\" ...more (4.5 stars) If you haven't already made acquaintance with Dan Chaon's work, do so. Like yesterday. Might as well start with Await Your Reply a taut thriller with a focus on identity: Identity theft, mistaken identity, multiple identities. Three seemingly separate disparate stories, weave back and forth and comprise a tapestry of wackitude you're not soon to forget. The ending was not quite as satisfying as I'd hoped, but I'm giving the guy the benefit of the doubt as much of his repertoire seems (4.5 stars) If you haven't already made acquaintance with Dan Chaon's work, do so. Like yesterday. Might as well start with Await Your Reply a taut thriller with a focus on identity: Identity theft, mistaken identity, multiple identities. Three seemingly separate disparate stories, weave back and forth and comprise a tapestry of wackitude you're not soon to forget. The ending was not quite as satisfying as I'd hoped, but I'm giving the guy the benefit of the doubt as much of his repertoire seems to lie in short-story writing (where success isn't measured by endings); not to mention he wrote this while is longtime wife (an author herself, who served as his copy editor) was dying of cancer. I can't possibly imagine churning out something as hauntingly beautiful as this while enduring such wretchedness. Oh, and if you're not hooked by the first three pages, I'd be stunned. Best novel start ever . Really. ...more Effortless, ...like drinking a clear glass full of cool water... his words glide along the pages and tell their story with grace and precision. This is a story that grabs you softly, but before you realize it, you cannot put it down. The characters are diverse and complicated in their seeming simplicity. Mr. Chaon manages to let us peek into their inner lives, and, in doing so, we find bits and pieces of ourselves. He is extremely adept at allowing us to step into present day reality, while not bei Effortless, ...like drinking a clear glass full of cool water... his words glide along the pages and tell their story with grace and precision. This is a story that grabs you softly, but before you realize it, you cannot put it down. The characters are diverse and complicated in their seeming simplicity. Mr. Chaon manages to let us peek into their inner lives, and, in doing so, we find bits and pieces of ourselves. He is extremely adept at allowing us to step into present day reality, while not being bombarded by the very technology that he uses to ensnare us in the end. From the opening page until the very last, there is no doubt why 'Await Your Reply' was on every respected Top Book List in 2009. ...more This book is mediocre, but not a waste of time. It is a quick and easy read, so the short time that it takes to read it doesn't feel like a waste (and the predicibility of the plot sppeds things along too). AYR is the story (actually three stories) of people who abandon their identities, whether for financial gain, the sheer joy of manipulating others, or a complete disgust with true identity. My biggest complaint about this book is that it tries to be suspenseful, but it fails miserably in its This book is mediocre, but not a waste of time. It is a quick and easy read, so the short time that it takes to read it doesn't feel like a waste (and the predicibility of the plot sppeds things along too). AYR is the story (actually three stories) of people who abandon their identities, whether for financial gain, the sheer joy of manipulating others, or a complete disgust with true identity. My biggest complaint about this book is that it tries to be suspenseful, but it fails miserably in its efforts. When it comes to the craft of creating suspense, I've been spoiled by Robert Ludlum and his ability to create an unshakable paranoia (Osterman Weekend, to name one example), where the author lulls the reader into trusting certain characters, then exposes the deception of those same characters by tying together hints that were there from the very beginning, until the reader is suspicious of absolutely every character. I could tell that Chaon was trying to do exactly that in AYR, but he just doesn't have the technique that Ludlum has. I'm glad I borrowed this book from the library because it is not a keeper. ...more MY FAVORITE BOOK. I find that I can relate to this story :-) Every time I read this book, I pick up more details. \"I myself, from the very beginning, Seemed to myself like someone's dream or delirium Or a reflection in someone else's mirror, Without flesh, without meaning, without a name. Already I knew the list of crimes That I was destined to commit.\" - ANNA AKHMATOVA, \"Northern Elegies\" (as quoted in Await Your Reply) --------------------------------------------------- \"First say to yourself what yo MY FAVORITE BOOK. I find that I can relate to this story :-) Every time I read this book, I pick up more details. \"I myself, from the very beginning, Seemed to myself like someone's dream or delirium Or a reflection in someone else's mirror, Without flesh, without meaning, without a name. Already I knew the list of crimes That I was destined to commit.\" - ANNA AKHMATOVA, \"Northern Elegies\" (as quoted in Await Your Reply) --------------------------------------------------- \"First say to yourself what you would be; and then do what you have to do.\" -EPICTETUS (as quoted in Await Your Reply) --------------------------------------------------- Pirates, Magicians, Hypnotists - this is exactly my kind of book :-) I can not get enough of this. (view spoiler) [ As soon as I saw a severed hand on page one, I knew I was gonna love this book. (hide spoiler) ] From page one: (view spoiler) [ \"On the seat beside him, in between him and his father, Ryan's severed hand is resting on a bed of ice in an eight-quart Styrofoam cooler.\" (hide spoiler) ] My favorite passage in the book (I love this stuff :-): (view spoiler) [ The pirates would kiss Hayden, and sometimes they would cut off a hank of hair - \"as a reminder of yer kisses, me lad\" - and one of them even cut off a piece of his earlobe. This particular pirate was Bill McGregor, and he was the one Hayden feared the most. Bill McGregor was the worst of them - and at night when everyone else was asleep, Bill McGregor would come looking for Hayden, his step slow and hollow on the planks of the deck, his voice a deep whisper. \"Boy,\" he would murmur. \"Where are you, boy?\" After Bill McGregor cut off the piece of Hayden's earlobe, he decided that he wanted more. Every time he caught Hayden, he would cut a small piece off of him. The skin of an elbow, the tip of a finger, a piece of this lip. He would grip the squirming Hayden and cut a piece off of him, and then Bill McGregor would eat the piece of flesh. (hide spoiler) ] In the Acknowledgements, the author writes: This book pays homage, and owes a great deal, to many fantastic and better writers who inspired me, both in childhood and beyond, including Robert Arthur, Robert Bloch, Ray Bradbury,Daphne du Maurier, John Fowles, Patrica Highsmith, Shirley Jackson, Stephen King, Ira Levin, C.S. Lewis, H.P. Lovecraft, Vladimir Nabokov, Joyce Carol Oates, Mary Shelley, Robert Louis Stevenson, Peter Straub, J.R.R. Tolkien, Thomas Tyron, and a number of others. One of the fun things about writing this book was making gestures and winks toward these writers that I've adored, I hope that they - living and dead - will forgive my incursions. ...more You Remind Me of Me is one of my all-time favorites, so maybe I expected too much. But this one relatively disappointed me. Yes, it moves along at a decent clip, and I enjoyed the gradual unfurling of all the personalities. But even I saw the \"twist\"/connection coming about halfway through, and if Credulous, Gullible I can pick it up that easily, believe me, it's probably too obvious. The characters are pretty unlikable and in some cases frustrating throughout. The one thing that is staying with You Remind Me of Me is one of my all-time favorites, so maybe I expected too much. But this one relatively disappointed me. Yes, it moves along at a decent clip, and I enjoyed the gradual unfurling of all the personalities. But even I saw the \"twist\"/connection coming about halfway through, and if Credulous, Gullible I can pick it up that easily, believe me, it's probably too obvious. The characters are pretty unlikable and in some cases frustrating throughout. The one thing that is staying with me: the poignancy of the only two times that Hayden deceives for the benefit of anyone but himself or his wallet -- the vain attempt to attract Dylan's violence onto himself instead of on Ryan, and his leaving the \"suicide note\" in the hope of \"freeing\" Miles to stop seeking him. A morbid irony in the fact that the only significant time he tells the truth (\"Jay is in Russia\") he is so savagely (indirectly) punished for it. I agree with the comparison to Pulp Fiction, but only to an extent. The novel ends \"feeling\" relatively okay - closure, and even a measure of peace for Ryan - while in fact Hayden/Mike/Jay/George/David is (I assume) coming to a violent end in the hotel room in Ivory Coast. Pulp Fiction is the opposite - you leave with a sense of unremitting bloody gloom - and yet when you piece together each storyline it turns out they have (chronologically) ended on \"up\" notes. Lucy walking around with new clothes and a new identity on, with $150,000 in cash on her back, failing to just take off, seemed a little untrue to her character, especially in the face of her growing discontent with and even fear of George/David. How could she be so stupid and passive? Are we to believe that George/David was that mesmerizing and charismatic? That plotline seemed to go to pains to show her disillusionment, and then at the moment that you are itching for her to take off... she never does. The only reason she leaves with the money, ultimately, is that she has no CHOICE. That was not satisfying to me. ...more So impressed was I by Chaon's You Remind Me of Me, that I absolutely had to read more by the author and this one didn't disappoint. It actually impressed further, terrific sophomore accomplishment. Chaon revisits the same themes from his debut here, themes obviously dear to his heart, like adoption, relationships between brothers and most importantly the nature of identity. That's what Await Your Reply is about really, a quest for identity, stolen, invented or otherwise, a meditation on the conc So impressed was I by Chaon's You Remind Me of Me, that I absolutely had to read more by the author and this one didn't disappoint. It actually impressed further, terrific sophomore accomplishment. Chaon revisits the same themes from his debut here, themes obviously dear to his heart, like adoption, relationships between brothers and most importantly the nature of identity. That's what Await Your Reply is about really, a quest for identity, stolen, invented or otherwise, a meditation on the concept of it, how solid or how malleable it really is and what remains as a constant when all the superficial aspects are changed around. That need for connection, to be loved and accepted for who you are, even if you're not sure who that is. The real star here is the actual structure of the novel itself, three parts...first one where the reader is introduced to three distinct storylines and their denizens, second where the reader starts suspecting the connections between the characters of being less that casually tenuous and third one where, stunningly, surprisingly, all is revealed and like a magic trick done well, it leaves the reader properly amazed. Yeah, it's that kind of book, it's that good, that interesting, that original. Chaon characterizes his works as ghost/supernatural sort of things, where the supernatural elements remain behind the curtain. And it really works too, there is a hypnotic quality to his writing, a mesmerizing tint to his narrative. And so if you identify as a reader of quality literature or want to be one (since apparently the difference is negligible with strong enough intent between what is and what can be) this book is really a must. Highly recommended. ...more Wow! This novel blew me away. I read it for a reading group and it was my pick, but it turned out to be different and very much more that I thought it would be from the blurbs I had seen. Yes, it includes identity theft as a plot point, but actually it is about identity: how do we get our identity as a person, how do we become confused about it, lose it, change it? While identity is a timely concept and the story is modern, somehow Dan Chaon also makes it universal, timeless and personal to the Wow! This novel blew me away. I read it for a reading group and it was my pick, but it turned out to be different and very much more that I thought it would be from the blurbs I had seen. Yes, it includes identity theft as a plot point, but actually it is about identity: how do we get our identity as a person, how do we become confused about it, lose it, change it? While identity is a timely concept and the story is modern, somehow Dan Chaon also makes it universal, timeless and personal to the reader. Then about halfway in, I realized I was reading a sort of hybrid thriller and a mystery, so had to search back in my memory for clues I hadn't spotted as clues. Very tricky, Mr Chaon. There are three story lines, each with its own main character, but whenever I put the book down, I could only remember one or at most two of the characters. I began to feel a little bit concerned about my short term memory and went through my daily activities with anxiety and other creepy emotions. Turned out there was a very good reason for all that, which I can't mention because it would be spoiler material. I don't imagine I will ever forget this book although someday I would like to reread it. The atmosphere of our oddly over-connected but disconnected modern culture which the author has created just out of those common elements of plot, character and description made me look at several aspects of my life in a completely new way. Now that is some righteous fiction! ...more E-e-r-i-e. It is irresponsible to tell you much more than that, because this book hinges on the reader's simultaneous suspicion and disarmament at every twist and turn. Much of the book is necessarily circumspect, which made me feel distant and dislocated during the first 2/3 of the story. And although a lot of it takes place in wide open, (and often) desolate places, I felt a contraction of space and time, and a reader's claustrophobia. The narrative edges collapsed into a flat darkness, and I E-e-r-i-e. It is irresponsible to tell you much more than that, because this book hinges on the reader's simultaneous suspicion and disarmament at every twist and turn. Much of the book is necessarily circumspect, which made me feel distant and dislocated during the first 2/3 of the story. And although a lot of it takes place in wide open, (and often) desolate places, I felt a contraction of space and time, and a reader's claustrophobia. The narrative edges collapsed into a flat darkness, and I frequently wondered where I am, where this is going. But an ominous atmosphere of mendacity and a disjointed, shadowy sense of the sinister pervaded. Alternating chapters distinguish the storylines. In the opening pages, we encounter a disturbing and unusual scene of vague, escaped violence and torment, as Ryan and his father are headed to the hospital. In the next chapter, we are introduced to recent high-school graduate Lucy and her lover, George, who was her twelfth-grade history teacher. They are headed toward a new life, far away from where they were teacher and student. Subsequently, we join Miles, a lonely man obsessed with the disappearance of his twin brother. These disparate narratives continue to alternately build with greater complexity and with mounting tension. All will be revealed by the closing pages, although the journey there is often ambiguous. I often felt restive and off-kilter while turning the pages, anxious for the story to become more transparent. I suspect that this was the author's intent, as these holes in our comprehension actually add weight and dimension to the story by giving it greater immediacy and urgency. Our participation as a reader is paramount to the theme of the story. I don't want to explain too much more, because I do not want to dilute the reader's tension and uncertainty. What I can say is that the question of identity, in its many guises, is the thing we are chasing, while it chases us. Dan Chaon delivers this dark and dire tale with a cagey cachet. I am confident it will inspire lively discussion and debate between readers. ...more I loved, loved, loved this novel--and not just because I know the writer. Really, I'm actually pretty hard on books written by people I know; I'm like that teacher who, when her son takes her class, is especially strict and unimpressed. I think it's just that I don't want to go easy on a book just because I know its author. I put up defenses, and of course my expectations are high. Anyway. This novel is gorgeous and riveting, and weird in that Dan Chaon way we've all come to know and love. It ma I loved, loved, loved this novel--and not just because I know the writer. Really, I'm actually pretty hard on books written by people I know; I'm like that teacher who, when her son takes her class, is especially strict and unimpressed. I think it's just that I don't want to go easy on a book just because I know its author. I put up defenses, and of course my expectations are high. Anyway. This novel is gorgeous and riveting, and weird in that Dan Chaon way we've all come to know and love. It makes you paranoid, in a good way, and you have to stop to think about what identity means, what a soul is, and what it means to love someone--but all in a wonderful, not-stoner way. I could not put this novel down. I loved how it played with genre conventions, and how dark it was, and how playful it was, too (there are magicians, and well-placed exclamation points!) Dan's skill for storytelling has just gone bonkers in this book. There are three narratives that wrap around each other in such ingenious ways. Wow. I'm interviewing Dan for The Millions, and I'll post that when it comes out--late August probably, when the book is released. My favorite novel of the year so far! ...more This book is c-r-e-e-p-y because you realize just how real the situations the characters find themselves in can be. Dan Chaon is an amazing writer and I found this book to be a fantastic, quick read, that I probably need to read over again in order to ensure I didn't miss any of the nuance. This book tells three parallel stories: Lucy, who flees her Ohio town with her high school teacher; Ryan, a college student struggling with the pressures of being who his parents want him to be, who finds out This book is c-r-e-e-p-y because you realize just how real the situations the characters find themselves in can be. Dan Chaon is an amazing writer and I found this book to be a fantastic, quick read, that I probably need to read over again in order to ensure I didn't miss any of the nuance. This book tells three parallel stories: Lucy, who flees her Ohio town with her high school teacher; Ryan, a college student struggling with the pressures of being who his parents want him to be, who finds out a secret about his life; and Miles, who has spent years running all over the place in search of his twin brother Hayden, who disappeared years ago but keeps telling him where he is and then eluding him. How these characters interact is one of the things that makes this book so creepy, and the fact that the story has at its premise identity theft (and how easy it is to pull off) is the other. As the book ultimately unfolded, I found myself a little confused, but it didn't detract from the power of this book. I'd also recommend reading Chaon's \"You Remind Me of Me.\" Fantastic!! ...more I thought this book was pretty engaging, and I am waffling between three and four stars. I usually don't see the twist coming but I got it pretty much immediately with this one. The alternating storylines sort of made each one shallower than I wanted it to be, I think. Like I just wanted him to kick it up a notch, because the premise of each of the three stories is so rich. Because actually, not much really happens in each of the three plotlines; each of the characters is on the edge on somethin I thought this book was pretty engaging, and I am waffling between three and four stars. I usually don't see the twist coming but I got it pretty much immediately with this one. The alternating storylines sort of made each one shallower than I wanted it to be, I think. Like I just wanted him to kick it up a notch, because the premise of each of the three stories is so rich. Because actually, not much really happens in each of the three plotlines; each of the characters is on the edge on something at the beginning, and most of the book is made up of elaborate backstories to explain how they got there. And then the thing happens and the book is over. If that makes any sense. Also at times I thought it was repetitive, like he thought you would forget details from the last time he was on that storyline. That being said, I definitely thought about this book after I was done. It left a lingering feeling of creepiness, and it did have some really incredible moments. My Goodreads reviews are always specific criticism and vague praise. The end. ...more Apparently, there are two reactions to this book--you either love it or hate it. I certainly didn't hate it, but my overall assessment couldn't be described as anything more than lukewarm. There are six main characters (actually less or more depending upon how you interpret the plot...can you see why I was frustrated???)...let's just say there are ostensibly six characters in this novel: Ryan & Jay; Lucy & George; Miles and Hayden. Keeping that many plots and balls juggling in the air is Apparently, there are two reactions to this book--you either love it or hate it. I certainly didn't hate it, but my overall assessment couldn't be described as anything more than lukewarm. There are six main characters (actually less or more depending upon how you interpret the plot...can you see why I was frustrated???)...let's just say there are ostensibly six characters in this novel: Ryan & Jay; Lucy & George; Miles and Hayden. Keeping that many plots and balls juggling in the air is difficult, and it's a hallmark of a good novelist that s/he can do it skillfully while maintaining your interest. But it didn't really work here in my opinion, even after the author eventually (another critique...he keeps the reader guessing far too long) plays his hand, so to speak. I think this was just a plain ol' case of me not warming to any of the characters, which is hardly surprising, given the author's argument...which is essentially very nihilistic. Doesn't make for cheerful reading. ...more The concept behind this book is pretty genius. When I first started reading, I thought it would a \"novel\" in the same vein as many critically acclaimed books these days -- a series of faintly interconnected stories with great description but little plot. However, the plot of Await Your Reply was so fantastic as to set it apart, and satisfy on all fronts. For most of the book, each chapter rotates between three different characters and plots. It's not clear how they relate together, or whether the The concept behind this book is pretty genius. When I first started reading, I thought it would a \"novel\" in the same vein as many critically acclaimed books these days -- a series of faintly interconnected stories with great description but little plot. However, the plot of Await Your Reply was so fantastic as to set it apart, and satisfy on all fronts. For most of the book, each chapter rotates between three different characters and plots. It's not clear how they relate together, or whether they're occuring simultaneously. But rather than this being a source of disappointment or lack of interest, it builds intrigue -- it soon becomes clear that, since each story contains characters with false identities, there will be a connection. But Chaon never hits you over the head with it. The reader is allowed to be curious, given just enough information to pique her interest and enough surrounding plot to keep the puzzle from dominating the forefront of her mind. Once it all started coming together for me, I felt I needed to take a moment and think through all I'd learned, all the little breadcrumbs Chaon had left for me (though I had at first been less interested in the crumbs than the decadent stories that they fell from). When I continued, Chaon rewarded the time that I had spent contemplating the rich characters that he had created. Slow-building yet suspenseful, Await Your Reply is a brilliantly-crafted story that will keep my mind occupied for some time. This may be the rare book that you complete only to begin anew. ...more This novel has been described as the lives of three different people and how they interconnect. The first person we meet is Ryan, who can answer to several different last names. He was born to an unwed mother and adopted. He considers his whole life a lie and leaves Northwestern University after using his tuition money for other purposes. He reunites with his biological father who is running a money scam. Lucy Lattimore lost her parents in an automoblile accident while she was in high school. She This novel has been described as the lives of three different people and how they interconnect. The first person we meet is Ryan, who can answer to several different last names. He was born to an unwed mother and adopted. He considers his whole life a lie and leaves Northwestern University after using his tuition money for other purposes. He reunites with his biological father who is running a money scam. Lucy Lattimore lost her parents in an automoblile accident while she was in high school. She has been brought up by her sister. Lucy runs away with her History teacher, George Orson. Lucy finds that George is not who he says he is, and claims to have a lot of money. The money is part of a deal set up in Nigeria. We've all heard that one, haven't we. Miles Cheshire spends most of life looking for his \"lost\" twin brother, Hayden. Hayden has had psychological problems since he was born. Miles has the ability to move from place to place and has had several jobs over the last ten years. Miles now thinks he has a good lead as to where Hayden is. I found this to be a very laborious read that did not keep my interest and failed to maintain continuity. When I did get to the end of the book, I felt I spent a lot of time trying to figure out these people's lives and was not sure where the book had taken me. The reason I was attracted to this book was that I had heard some things about it and it supposedly was getting good reviews. As always, there is the possibility that I missed the entire concept of the book. ...more Listen Goodreads, get with the program and allow half-star ratings--I'd really like to give AWAIT YOUR REPLY 3.5 but just can't bring myself to give it a full 4. It's interesting to read this because I was JUST having a conversation with a coworker (and later a follow-up conversation with my boyfriend) about how contemporary writers find it difficult to incorporate computer use/the internet use into their novels. Is this because, what with technological updates happening roughly every millisecon Listen Goodreads, get with the program and allow half-star ratings--I'd really like to give AWAIT YOUR REPLY 3.5 but just can't bring myself to give it a full 4. It's interesting to read this because I was JUST having a conversation with a coworker (and later a follow-up conversation with my boyfriend) about how contemporary writers find it difficult to incorporate computer use/the internet use into their novels. Is this because, what with technological updates happening roughly every millisecond, novels that are written for a computer savvy crowd will be dated within a matter of months? Something for book club discussion. Anyway, I don't want to reveal much about the plot because the way the story unfolds is what makes this novel interesting. I will say that around page 80 I still found myself waiting for something to happen, and the book is only a hair over 300. I've never read Chaon (how the heck do you pronounce his last name again??) before but would certainly consider reading another of his. I thought this one was simultaneously readable and insightful. ...more Best novel I've read in a Long Time! This stories weaves through the lives of various characters who are all touched by loss, longing, insanity and the nebulous nature of personal identity. It's rather like Malick's film BADLANDS but with mind games, twisted affinities and schizophrenia replacing the gunslinging. It's a thrilling, passionate, romantic and gothic novel full of suspense and surprise. I'd recommend it. Miles is searching for his brother who has been missing for ten years. Lucy has run off with her high school history teacher. And Ryan has just discovered his whole life has been a lie. Three people who never meet but are connected nevertheless. This is one of those books that as soon as you're done you immediately want to reread. Highly recommended. A brilliant book. It's both beautifully crafted and extremely suspenseful. Without being heavy-handed, it also offers a really interesting meditation on identity. This book has been discussed and reviewed in almost every newspaper and magazine from the most prominent in the country to your everyday bloggers like myself. It was also on numerous top ten lists for 2009. Clearly, it has something about it that attracts readers and I just had to know what that was. Unfortunately, I was a bit disappointed because after all of the rave reviews I found this book to be a bit lacking. Of course the plot was compelling, the issues addressed were extremely intriguing This book has been discussed and reviewed in almost every newspaper and magazine from the most prominent in the country to your everyday bloggers like myself. It was also on numerous top ten lists for 2009. Clearly, it has something about it that attracts readers and I just had to know what that was. Unfortunately, I was a bit disappointed because after all of the rave reviews I found this book to be a bit lacking. Of course the plot was compelling, the issues addressed were extremely intriguing and thought provoking, and the narration was exceptional. Still, I found something about it to be dull. Basically, there are three stories that all revolve around the same theme: identity and its fluidity. The first story is that of a college dropout named Ryan who is introduced to the reader as his hand is being cut off by a mobster of some sort who is after his father. The reader soon finds out that Ryan and his father have had a troubled past that has just recently been revealed to Ryan. The second storyline follows that of Miles who is trying to track down his long lost brother. Miles believes that his brother is a paranoid schizophrenic or something of the sort and only receives sporadic correspondence from him. Yet, whenever he does receive one of his brother's cryptic letters, Miles spends weeks and months trying to locate his brother. It is one of these trips that opens Miles' section. Lastly, is the storyline that revolves around Lucy and her boyfriend (and high school teacher) George. Lucy has little family and finds solace in George's affections. It is for this reason that the two decide to run away together and start a new life. Each of these story lines runs independently throughout the book until the finally all come together in the last few pages. Yet, an observant reader could easily see their connection much earlier. I thought that each story as extremely compelling. The characters were well developed and the atmosphere was perpetually heavy. The majority of the novel read like a thriller which made me speed through it in only a couple of days. Once I got to the end, I was a bit unsatisfied. All of the events that I predicted had some to fruition and I felt that there was little surprise or intrigue towards the novel's conclusion. The overall story was unique in that it dealt with issues of identity theft and fraud. While centuries of writers have written of issues involving identity, this book delves into the modern issues of identity and how easy it has become to manipulate one's identity using technology. Though I don't believe it was one of the best of 2009, I did find it to be extremely interesting and it raised questions that I think people will continue to battle with for decades. www.iamliteraryaddicted.blogspot.com ...more I'm still not sure how I feel about this head trip of a book. In some ways it was immensely satisfying and rewarding, particularly for the dedicated Chaon reader who sees his persistent preoccupations (brothers, twins, family, identity, disassociation) rise to the surface in a slightly different format. In other ways, it seems totally unresolved in a way that's hard to explain without using a sexual metaphor: big buildup, no release. For me, anyway. What I absolutely loved: the echoed phrases and I'm still not sure how I feel about this head trip of a book. In some ways it was immensely satisfying and rewarding, particularly for the dedicated Chaon reader who sees his persistent preoccupations (brothers, twins, family, identity, disassociation) rise to the surface in a slightly different format. In other ways, it seems totally unresolved in a way that's hard to explain without using a sexual metaphor: big buildup, no release. For me, anyway. What I absolutely loved: the echoed phrases and life histories that traced a fluid line through the novel. This is hard to explain to anyone who hasn't read it, and talking about it may spoil the experience for others. I found it a masterful tease and it gave me a mighty headache. One might think a mighty headache isn't a great thing to have while reading a novel, but I like puzzles (see also: my reviews of Jonathan Ayecliffe's The Vanishment and Heidi Julavitz's The Uses of Enchantment). The problem is, this particular puzzle may not be very hard to solve. It's laid out brilliantly but I'm wondering if it might be missing a layer. The ending is too neat. Unless it's not. There are 3 sets of characters in this book - one person looking for another; two people traveling together; two people pulling off a con. One of these things is not like the other, and I think that might be the key to the book's twist, but I'm still riddling it out. If you like Dan Chaon, read this book. If you like the theme of identity and the concepts of starting over and being someone else, you'll probably enjoy this. Much food for thought. ...more<---C>Dan Chaon</---C>", "Title": "Await Your Reply"},
