{"Comments": "<+++>The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red</+++>If ever there was a book that had me enthralled from cover to cover and constantly saying to myself \"OMG...<---F>WTF\" (yes</---F>...I'm sorry, my thoughts were quite that profane as I read it and for the sake of some of our viewers I've not spelt out the phrases), this was it. Trying to recall the movie I had watched depicted after Stephen King's version I can't quite place the two together. While I believe the movie was quite scary, reading the diary was far more dark and it wasn't that graphic. Chills were If ever there was a book that had me enthralled from cover to cover and constantly saying to myself \"OMG...WTF\" (yes...I'm sorry, my thoughts were quite that profane as I read it and for the sake of some of our viewers I've not spelt out the phrases), this was it. Trying to recall the movie I had watched depicted after Stephen King's version I can't quite place the two together. While I believe the movie was quite scary, reading the diary was far more dark and it wasn't that graphic. Chills were felt as I read her (Ellen) diary and imagined the days with her through her life at Rose Red. The thought of one being trapped within their own home to lose all she loved due to a \"house's\" jealousy feels so horrendous. And like a mother who could never leave her child she remained in even more pain waiting for her lost daughter to come back to her. I could hardly imagine the horror it must have been to watch things change before one's eyes as the plants,<---M> stain glass window in the tower</---M>, and hallways seem to have done. OK...if you don't want to be spoiled...don't read any further. If you do, it's not my fault as I warned you... I was so impressed (sounds so odd after reading the tragic events at Rose Red) that I had to read more into it from the Beaumont University Site mentioned in the book where they supposedly (key word here) included some of the deleted diary pages, pictures, and more details of Reardon's research. If you'd like to read more then you'll need to visit The Beaumont University's Paranormal Studies Program pages. But in further reading and going through links looking for those mentioned \"deleted entries\", I discovered that many links were going nowhere. I did however get through to the HistoryLink.org site. It's here that I found out that it was all indeed a \"hoax\" for this fiction story. Haha at me for actually forgetting I picked up a book of FICTION!! What does that say about the book?! It got me so it was GOOD!! LOL Will it get you?! Hopefully I didn't kill it too much for your imagination. Apparently it got to a lot of readers with some getting downright mad. So it duped many. Remember I got \"duped\" too. Big whoop...in my eyes it means it was a good book!! My thoughts are that books of FICTION are supposed to be entertaining...what do you expect when you find the book in the HORROR section?! Hello... ;-) ...more Is this story true? No, Rose Red does not exist. However...The story was partially based on the story of Sarah Winchester who continued to build her house until she died. Sarah Winchester was very superstitious and that thought the victims that had died at the hand of Winchester rifles would one day come back to haunt her, so the house was build with doors to no where, steps that lead up to ceilings and went no where, in her vain attempt to protect herself. You can tour this house the Stephen Kin Is this story true? No, Rose Red does not exist. However...The story was partially based on the story of Sarah Winchester who continued to build her house until she died. Sarah Winchester was very superstitious and that thought the victims that had died at the hand of Winchester rifles would one day come back to haunt her, so the house was build with doors to no where, steps that lead up to ceilings and went no where, in her vain attempt to protect herself. You can tour this house the Stephen King found such inspiration from to this day. After learning the truth I still think its one of the better done stories of Kings writings. ...more This was a book that I picked up and started reading essentially because it happened to be right there in front of me. I couldn\u2019t tell you what compelled me to finish it, obviously I had NOTHING better to do and looking back that\u2019s kind of sad. The only good thing I can say is that the book initial had an idea with potential, but unfortunately that potential was ignored and wasted. The story went on and on, but never had any points that I found memorial or crucial. If there is a climax it was to This was a book that I picked up and started reading essentially because it happened to be right there in front of me. I couldn\u2019t tell you what compelled me to finish it, obviously I had NOTHING better to do and looking back that\u2019s kind of sad. The only good thing I can say is that the book initial had an idea with potential, but unfortunately that potential was ignored and wasted. The story went on and on, but never had any points that I found memorial or crucial. If there is a climax it was totally over my head, or just so lame that it wasn\u2019t worth registering. All the main characters were boring, clich\u00e9, unbelievable and flat. The only person in the entire book that I had any interest in at all was the Chinese mystic and she was only there on a couple of pages. (If she had been in the book any more then that I probably would\u2019ve hated her too.) I can\u2019t fathom why someone took the time to waste ink on this novel. My guess is the author really wanted to try to practice writing erotic fiction. It was a bad try. The lesson that the author needs to learn is that gratuitous (yet completely uninteresting) sex does not a good story make. Oh, I should mention that this is suppose to be a ghost/haunted house tale, but you forget that because any of the supernatural episodes have no power to intrigue or hold you in any kind of suspense. Lame book. ...more This combination of history, the paranormal and the power of the human mind, is a really great story with more to it than meets the eye. I really loved this book. I recieved my copy as a surprise gift from my husband and I read it right after I watched the series on TV. The book is very well written and is just like a diary. It complaments the movie very well if you have seen the movie by all means read this companion book. A mysterious and haunting spirit lurks within the walls of Rose Red, the setting for Stephen King's upcoming ABC miniseries tie-in by the same name. Built on a Native American burial ground in early 20th-centu I really loved this book. I recieved my copy as a surprise gift from my husband and I read it right after I watched the series on TV. The book is very well written and is just like a diary. It complaments the movie very well if you have seen the movie by all means read this companion book. A mysterious and haunting spirit lurks within the walls of Rose Red, the setting for Stephen King's upcoming ABC miniseries tie-in by the same name. Built on a Native American burial ground in early 20th-century Seattle, the mansion which is constantly under construction sets the scene for a multitude of inexplicable disappearances and ghastly deaths. While moody oil tycoon John Rimbauer refuses to acknowledge that the house has a mind of its own, his young wife, Ellen, dramatizes these eerie events with great detail in her diary, often personifying the house as if it were a living being. (Or, perhaps, a non-living being?) While the evolution of Ellen's character from innocent and submissive to frighteningly powerful is a slow process, the language and questioning nature of her entries entice the reader as the mystery of Rose Red is brought into full bloom. Ellen also reveals frustration and disappointment with her marriage namely her husband's unfaithfulness and alarmingly frequent involvement in voyeuristic activities as well as a growing confusion about her sexual identity and attachment to her friend and African handmaid, Sukeena. In addition to extensive dialogue that makes the diary seem a tad more like a novel than someone's personal confessions, Ellen's entries are accompanied by a handful of explanatory notes put in by the \"editor\" and supposed professor of paranormal studies, <---A>Joyce Reardon</---A>. The people mentioned in the diary, as well as Reardon, are all characters in Rose Red, which was created directly for television by the bestselling author. As to who penned the actual text of the diary? That remains as much of a mystery as Rose Red herself. ...more About the only thing positive I can say about this book is that the premise is interesting. Of course, the idea of a house that is (view spoiler) [ itself an evil entity isn\u2019t original, but the notion that the house\u2019s owners are also its servants who feed it until they are themselves absorbed (hide spoiler) ] is pretty fun. The execution is lacking, though. I finished the book out of mild curiosity to see how the story played out and because I needed the Supernatural bingo square for the 2016 Hall About the only thing positive I can say about this book is that the premise is interesting. Of course, the idea of a house that is (view spoiler) [ itself an evil entity isn\u2019t original, but the notion that the house\u2019s owners are also its servants who feed it until they are themselves absorbed (hide spoiler) ] is pretty fun. The execution is lacking, though. I finished the book out of mild curiosity to see how the story played out and because I needed the Supernatural bingo square for the 2016 Halloween Bingo. This book was written as a movie tie-in, intended to serve as a prequel and Blair Witch style marketing hype. It refers to supplemental materials on a now-defunct website for the fake university that the fake author supposedly taught at. I suppose this is one of the downsides to the multimedia book idea that I enjoyed with Night Film. The book is forever, but the online supplementals are transient and render the book itself forever incomplete. On a side note: I see that I originally rated this book 4 stars when I read it eleven years ago. Funny how our tastes and judgement change over time. ...more No, it's not great literature...but it has a certain charm. Loosely based on the mythos surrounding the Winchester House, this mock-up period ghost/possession/haunting was first published to accompany a (rather meh) miniseries called 'Rose Red.' I watched said miniseries & wasn't terribly impressed by the acting or the campy FX...but the 'background' of Rose Red intrigued me enough to read this a few weeks later. In retrospect, I should have waited; my opinion was colored by the show, & No, it's not great literature...but it has a certain charm. Loosely based on the mythos surrounding the Winchester House, this mock-up period ghost/possession/haunting was first published to accompany a (rather meh) miniseries called 'Rose Red.' I watched said miniseries & wasn't terribly impressed by the acting or the campy FX...but the 'background' of Rose Red intrigued me enough to read this a few weeks later. In retrospect, I should have waited; my opinion was colored by the show, & I caught myself looking for key objects & foreshadowing that linked to the screen story, rather than simply enjoying the book for what it was. Now, many years later, I can say I liked the book & couldn't care less about the occasional stylistic wobble or how it ties into a junky miniseries--rather, it's a fun Edwardian spoof with an extremely unreliable narrator & a creepy setting. 3.5 stars overall. ...more First I would like to point out that while Stephen King was responsible for the miniseries, which takes place after the events of this book, he is not the author of this book, which becomes quickly apparent as you read. It lacks King's style, and I'm surprised that any fan of his would think this was the case more than five pages in. The actual author (according to wikipedia, and the author's own site) is Ridley Pearson. He's apparently a really real person, with his own list of books on amazon. First I would like to point out that while Stephen King was responsible for the miniseries, which takes place after the events of this book, he is not the author of this book, which becomes quickly apparent as you read. It lacks King's style, and I'm surprised that any fan of his would think this was the case more than five pages in. The actual author (according to wikipedia, and the author's own site) is Ridley Pearson. He's apparently a really real person, with his own list of books on amazon.com and everything. Given the attempted ARG elements that accompanied the promotion of these materials, I can see where it got confusing for some people. Now, on to the review of the book itself: This started out as a decent story, (one I've been meaning to read since seeing the television miniseries when it originally aired just about ten years ago, at the time of this writing. I don't remember much about the series, except that at the point it had aired, I was well versed enough in Kingology to predict every single turn of the plot, much to my family's annoyance.) and I was really gripped by the beginning of it. However, as it the book goes on the diary gimmick of it feels very much tacked on, with conversations related a touch too precisely, and obvious \"writer tricks\" stuck into the narrative, spoiling the illusion of an actual journal. Additionally, while the story shies away from the big obvious scares; leaving you with mysterious disappearances and a dearth of any kind of gore, it doesn't provide scares in any significant other ways, either. The fact is simply that if you're going for moody and atmospheric frights, a diary style presentation simply doesn't work as well. It puts the author into a catch-22; if he tries to make it sound like a diary, he's going to lose the sense of atmosphere, as most people don't add descriptive passages to their journals, a necessary technique to build mood and eeriness. If on the other hand, he tries to evoke the mood properly, he loses the real \"diary\" feeling. There are cases where an author has been able to pull this kind of thing off, but it's a fine line to walk. Additionally, as the story moved on, the characters became more and more exaggerated, to the point that it began to feel cartoonish. I'm all for having the characters change and grow and so on, but this really got ridiculous. This also happened with the plot, which seemed like it was trying for subtle strangeness in the beginning of the book,, and then just got completely insane later on, and not in a good scary way. By the end, nothing anyone was doing made any sense. There were a few characters in the story who didn't undergo this bizzarre transformation, but we don't see enough of them for them to really get interesting. Promising characters are tossed aside too soon, and as the narrator's madness grows, we start to wonder where all of her former friends and her family are in all this. I mostly gave this two stars based on the novel's very strong and interesting start (if not for that it would most definitely have been a one star book). Make no mistake, the first half of this book is pretty good. The exotic locales, the protagonist's strange husband, and Ellen's internal life are all very real and fascinating. It just doesn't keep up this pace, and devolves slowly into nonsense. A final note: Certain parts of the book were \"edited out,\" and placed on a website somewhere, for reasons I don't truly understand. Supposedly, this is because the fake researcher who found this fake diary thought they were too juicy for the public (so she put them on the internet..? Oh... kay. That makes sense I guess?). The problem is, it seems the site has been abandoned, and the excerpts are now gone, with no mirror of them in sight. I was promised debauchery, and it seems that now I will never get it. Though from what I could gather off related sites, this debauchery includes sex scenes with an icicle, which sounds... uncomfortable to say the least, so perhaps it's better I can't find them. ...more Perfect creep-fest story to go along with the dark and stormy nights that we've been having! So, I'll have to admit, first of all, that I really thought Stephen King wrote this. I felt like such a putz when it was pointed out that he did not. At least I can breathe a sigh of relief, because this was not up to King's usual level. Duh! This diary entry book tells the story of <---C>Ellen Rimbauer</---C> and her life at the mansion Rose Red. The story actually begins on the day footings are being laid for the mansion's foundation, and then follows Ellen and John Rimbauer on their year long honeymoon aro So, I'll have to admit, first of all, that I really thought Stephen King wrote this. I felt like such a putz when it was pointed out that he did not. At least I can breathe a sigh of relief, because this was not up to King's usual level. Duh! This diary entry book tells the story of Ellen Rimbauer and her life at the mansion Rose Red. The story actually begins on the day footings are being laid for the mansion's foundation, and then follows Ellen and John Rimbauer on their year long honeymoon around the world, with their eventual return to the completed Rose Red. We are shown early on what sort of man John is, and that Ellen, despite being a bit non-conventional, is going to accept this behaviour, not only for the benefits of his wealth, but for the chance at children and a family. A well respected family. Ellen Rimbauer is an infinitely fascinating character to me, almost from her first diary entry at 19. She is writing in 1902, but her inner feelings, thoughts, desires, are so out of step with the times that I couldn't wait to see what she would do with them. Turns out...nothing. Well, nothing, except marry a womanizing pig, albeit a rich one, contract syphilis from his easy ways, and then spend the rest of her life punishing him for it by spending his money on the never ending expansion of Rose Red. I'm sure it's meant to be ambiguous, but it was never clear who or what exactly was \"haunting\" Rose Red. The fact that she was haunted was undeniable. She also needed \"feeding\" and was able to help herself in that regard. Many women disappeared and many men died within her grounds. Many of the women actually seemed to disappear in defense of Ellen Rimbauer or her honor, so even from the beginning the house seemed protective of, if not loving, of her. How was this relationship fostered? That's one question I would really like an answer to. I own this book, but audio-ed it this time. I found many of the editorial notes amusing, especially on the audio. The diary entries are supposedly edited by Joyce Reardon, PH.D. as she is using them for her thesis. Where omissions are made, they are explained as unneccesary, repetitive, or in one large chunk, as too \"risque\". The book leaves it at Reardon's explanation, but the audio goes on to say that the edited entries can be found on a website for Beaumont University by entering a particular URL. I wonder how many listeners tried to read those edited entries since it was made clear they were not only sexual in nature, but downright deviant! ...more This book really held my attention. I even thought it was real. I was very disappointed when I discovered the truth. The movie is stupid, so if you've seen it, don't let it play a role in your decision to read this book. I finished this book over a period of four days and really disliked every minute of it. Okay, I'm exaggerating a bit, but this book is neither sexy nor scary. In fact, it's quite cliche and boring most of the time. The main character was barely fleshed out, and let's not get started on the background characters. They barely even exist! After finishing this book I found out it was made into a television series by Stephen King. The cinematography looked stunning and intriguing, yet one part of me t I finished this book over a period of four days and really disliked every minute of it. Okay, I'm exaggerating a bit, but this book is neither sexy nor scary. In fact, it's quite cliche and boring most of the time. The main character was barely fleshed out, and let's not get started on the background characters. They barely even exist! After finishing this book I found out it was made into a television series by Stephen King. The cinematography looked stunning and intriguing, yet one part of me tells me it suffers the same problems as this book does. Either way, I don't recommend this book for horror fans or King fans. The TV series looks a bit more promising. ...more This was a lesson in what constitutes progress. Found this on a rainy day in Venice Public Library and decided it might be sort of time-capsule creepy, a mouse-hole view into another era. If I had had any idea whatsoever that this was in fact a companion novelization to a popular Stephen King miniseries ... it would've remained on the shelf. But on this day I needed something to read, and my holds had yet to appear in the arrivals stack. Nothing about cover, flyleaf notes, or interior designations This was a lesson in what constitutes progress. Found this on a rainy day in Venice Public Library and decided it might be sort of time-capsule creepy, a mouse-hole view into another era. If I had had any idea whatsoever that this was in fact a companion novelization to a popular Stephen King miniseries ... it would've remained on the shelf. But on this day I needed something to read, and my holds had yet to appear in the arrivals stack. Nothing about cover, flyleaf notes, or interior designations indicate that it was anything other than a 1902 diary, brought to light as historical artifact. So it was chosen the old fashioned way, without resort to pre-release info, review-page or online investigation. We now forget how valuable those guidelines can be for choosing books. A few pages in, I wagered that the \"actual diary excerpts\" guarantee here was fake, but things proceed slowly enough in the initial chapters for that to stay a non-issue. After some chapters had passed, though, there was ample reason to think that this was all phony. Most conspicuously Our Heroine, who is shockingly worldly and composed for a blushing Edwardian teenage bride. Considerations of corporate responsibility in the world markets, and an amazing openess to other cultures, combined with a virtual Our Bodies Our Selves enlightenment on things feminine conspire to give the game away. By the middle of the book I realized I was thinking of her as some kind of turn-of-the-century Sarah Palin, all at once conversant on any theme that arises, and yet-- so permanently clueless. This was once a tiny little penny-candy sitting on some counter of future delights, an unopened Bazooka Bubble Gum of a good idea. As it is, it's a black gooey blob on the underside of lost endeavors. But who really wrote this, who reworked it into senseless oblivion, and who really cares---- will all have to remain unanswered. If I were a nine-year old girl in some pre-internet culture, who had never read any worthwhile fiction, I would love this book. As it actually stands, well ..... no. ...more As haunted house books go, this one had an interesting premise but I didn't find the story interesting. The biggest problem was the narrator, for me. The diary conceit is always difficult to pull off, perhaps especially when the book's set in the past. Ellen Rimbauer was, for me, an annoying combination of self-conscious historical voice and modern novel habits. For instance, I'm not going to say what a teenaged bride at the turn of the century would or wouldn't possibly know about, she did seem As haunted house books go, this one had an interesting premise but I didn't find the story interesting. The biggest problem was the narrator, for me. The diary conceit is always difficult to pull off, perhaps especially when the book's set in the past. Ellen Rimbauer was, for me, an annoying combination of self-conscious historical voice and modern novel habits. For instance, I'm not going to say what a teenaged bride at the turn of the century would or wouldn't possibly know about, she did seem to have the standard interest in recording bodily functions, sex crimes and pretty much anything to do with sex. Although she says over and over she never wants anyone to read the diary, she still feels the need to explain things to herself she would presumably already know. For instance, if you've bought a set of autographed books by Jack London, you would think you would know who Jack London was and not have to remind yourself he's a clever new writer. There's of course also a lot of very self-conscious references to past events and people innocently mentioned with no idea they will one day be household names. Ellen occasionally takes time out of living a life that seems like would make her conservative to express concern for less privileged people or note how she's much more comfortable with them than she was at first. This is especially uncomfortable given that her \"best friend\" is her maid, a magical negro that she brought home from her honeymoon. Serious magical negro trope going on. Presumably the idea was inspired by the Winchester Mystery house, but the idea of an ever-growing house that eats people is a more interesting idea than the tale of the abusive marriage it reflects here, imo. ...more I skimmed through the first few pages because the prose was overwrought and extremely melodramatic. It reminded me of the sort of thing someone who has never read a romance might write thinking this is the way it's done. Purple prose, fluttering hands, and swooning galore. Blech. Okay, I'm revising my first impression of this book because last night I zipped through 3/4's of it without taking a break, getting bored, or skimming. I haven't done that in YEARS. Something about this story fascinates I skimmed through the first few pages because the prose was overwrought and extremely melodramatic. It reminded me of the sort of thing someone who has never read a romance might write thinking this is the way it's done. Purple prose, fluttering hands, and swooning galore. Blech. Okay, I'm revising my first impression of this book because last night I zipped through 3/4's of it without taking a break, getting bored, or skimming. I haven't done that in YEARS. Something about this story fascinates me. It's not frightening or overly gory but it is filled with a nice sense of impending dread, a creeping ugliness and an increasingly jaded, frustrated and angry heroine. Ellen's ideal marriage soon turns out to be a huge disaster once she realizes he's a monster, sexual deviant and possible murderer. She develops a close bond with her beautiful servant Sukeena who is strong, unafraid and possess powerful knowledge. Before long Ellen longs more for the touch of her friend Sukeena than the monstrous hands of her once perfect husband. Her feelings, her anger and her thoughts of revenge are realistic to me. Interesting stuff and I'm glad I continued reading past the insipid beginning. Later I finished and, in the end, was a bit disappointed. Big chunks of the so-called diary were removed by Dr. Reardon to spare us gentle reader's the shocking sexual revelations within. I smell a cop-out on the part of the writer here . . . Dr. Reardon directs nosy reader's to a website in order to read these passages. Note to other readers: Don't waste your time with the website because it contains absolutely nothing of substance. Not that I checked or anything ;) ...more OK, first it needs to be understood that The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer is not a real diary. It was written by Stephen King to hype his Rose Red movie. That's right. It's a gimmick. Now, I'm not necessary opposed to a gimmick if it's well done. (See my review of Heat Wave.) However, King didn't even put any real effort into the writing of this. It felt like King punched this out on his computer in about an hour, then decided to turn it into a diary, so he took what he already wrote, chopped it up i OK, first it needs to be understood that The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer is not a real diary. It was written by Stephen King to hype his Rose Red movie. That's right. It's a gimmick. Now, I'm not necessary opposed to a gimmick if it's well done. (See my review of Heat Wave.) However, King didn't even put any real effort into the writing of this. It felt like King punched this out on his computer in about an hour, then decided to turn it into a diary, so he took what he already wrote, chopped it up into sections and put date entries at the beginning of each section. First, there is too much description to be a diary. Minute descriptions of incidental characters and off-hand mentions of artwork. A technique people employ when writing for others, not for themselves. The other glaring problem is that \"Ellen\" chronologically contradicts herself. (i.e: She first complains that John Rimbauer has not yet proposed, then in the same entry describes his proposal.) While the story was just barely interesting enough to finish once I started reading it, it's not worth starting. ...more I got half way through and since reading is a joy to me and something I do for relaxation and fun I could not read any more. It was truly awful. If I run out of toilet paper I know what to reach for. The premise was ridiculous and the long long description of life with her terrible sexually deviant husband was mind numbing. Really I don't have anything good to say about the book except it looked intriguing from the front cover. Good job I got it at goodwill for $1 or I'd have another regret to a I got half way through and since reading is a joy to me and something I do for relaxation and fun I could not read any more. It was truly awful. If I run out of toilet paper I know what to reach for. The premise was ridiculous and the long long description of life with her terrible sexually deviant husband was mind numbing. Really I don't have anything good to say about the book except it looked intriguing from the front cover. Good job I got it at goodwill for $1 or I'd have another regret to add to the regret I have over the hours of my life I can't get back. ...more No wonder it read like Fiction - it is fiction! LOL Apparently it was written by Stephen King, which also explains why I devoured it in one sitting. He's one of my favourites. I'm now left wondering who wrote the online blog about the subsequent investigation that I read a few months ago. It didn't read like King at all, and was pretty incomplete. A horror of a house, reminiscent of the one in the Flowers in the Attic series. I thought this was written by Stephen King, and was confused by the odd style. Once I discovered it wasn't by him, I was both annoyed and relieved. This book absorbed my attention but at the same time felt poorly written and Ellen was working my last nerve. Every diary entry began the same way: \"Oh my! I simply cannot write about the events of tonight/today/last month/breakfast! But I shall must up the courage and do so for pages and pages!\" This diary belongs in everyone's personal library. It amazes me that this diary was found at an estate sale in the summer of 1998. It is quite revealing of the past. The diary will take you into the mind of a woman who found herself in a torrid relationship with a wealthy man in the early 1900s. She forced herself to love this man. I would definitely give this book a solid B as it is a GOOD form of reading a womans' thoughts almost a century ago. The romantic woman, Ellen, was in the forefront fo This diary belongs in everyone's personal library. It amazes me that this diary was found at an estate sale in the summer of 1998. It is quite revealing of the past. The diary will take you into the mind of a woman who found herself in a torrid relationship with a wealthy man in the early 1900s. She forced herself to love this man. I would definitely give this book a solid B as it is a GOOD form of reading a womans' thoughts almost a century ago. The romantic woman, Ellen, was in the forefront for the benefit of women, having some power at that time. Ellen was in touch with her sexuality and even found pleasure with her chambermaid, Sukeena. The relationship with her husband was much more physical and forceful (and she learned to enjoy it at times--yipes!). The mysterious events at Rose Red (their home) make one wonder about the supernatural. The wonders of a seance and disapperances of people are only a small part of the reminiscences by Ellen. I found the diary format quite fascinating, superstitious and easy to read. I especially liked how I had to refer to a website for the \"steamy & provocative\" missing excerpts/entries that were not suitable to be printed in the book! A few lines that captured me were: Dare I write this, when writing seems so final an act? We live under a magnifying glass. All children spend time in their make believe worlds. Oh, if that's not the pot calling the kettle black! While John lifts the skirts of his dockside whores he condemns Douglas for taking up with his pale young men. No walls exist between Sukeena and me. In just seven short years my life has so drastically changed to where even I do not recognize it. We're all afraid of something, dear. Never fear the truth. It's the only real passport you have to reach new levels of understanding. You may find it corny, but the truth can set you free. ...more Considering this was written as promotional material for a TV movie, there's actually something to The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer . There's not a lot to it, but it's not bad by any means. There are a lot of clich\u00e9s here (all of them, in fact), but who doesn't love a good haunted house book? The tone is inconsistent and the story doesn't make a lot of sense, but you've got a philandering oil baron husband, a psychically-sensitive housewife, a spooky African housemaid with powers, a Chinese medium with Considering this was written as promotional material for a TV movie, there's actually something to The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer . There's not a lot to it, but it's not bad by any means. There are a lot of clich\u00e9s here (all of them, in fact), but who doesn't love a good haunted house book? The tone is inconsistent and the story doesn't make a lot of sense, but you've got a philandering oil baron husband, a psychically-sensitive housewife, a spooky African housemaid with powers, a Chinese medium with broken English, an Indian burial ground... the book relies on racial stereotypes of the time (early 1900's), which is a little gross but lends it authenticity. The house eats women and kills unfaithful men, and there are implications that the forces at play are something more than the Native Americans whose graves were disturbed, but nothing is really fleshed out. The house changes shape sometimes. Sometimes there are ghosts but other times there are visions. Sometimes the house is the whim of Ellen Rimbauer, sometimes it is not. You just sort of have to go with it. ... now that I think about it, the book was kinda bad. But there is something readable and blithely enjoyable about it. I can't put my finger on what I found so appealing because when I think back critically, all I have is downsides. There are a couple moments when the author breaks the diary-style in a jarring way with \"I would later come to realize...\" phrases and the like. If you're writing this in 1907, how do you know what you will come to realize many years from now? That's a pretty bad mistake. Anyway I've got two TV movies to watch (Rose Red, for which this was written, and The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer, which I suppose was made after the success of Rose Red.) They're probably terrible good too. ...more Got this book at a library sale because I was in the mood for true!hauntings and/or Victorian spiritualism, and got neither. I was a little disappointed to find out it wasn't a true account, but that didn't ruin the book for me; lots of creepy-haunting books aren't true accounts. However,I didn't think this book was particularly scary or creepy; it was a fairly run-of-the-mill fictional haunting with some lesbianism thrown in for omgsoshocking!!1!! value. I didn't think the book felt like a diary Got this book at a library sale because I was in the mood for true!hauntings and/or Victorian spiritualism, and got neither. I was a little disappointed to find out it wasn't a true account, but that didn't ruin the book for me; lots of creepy-haunting books aren't true accounts. However,I didn't think this book was particularly scary or creepy; it was a fairly run-of-the-mill fictional haunting with some lesbianism thrown in for omgsoshocking!!1!! value. I didn't think the book felt like a diary at all, and the language doesn't feel like the diary of a woman of that time period, either. I don't think this kind of format has to be presented in strictly period language, but here there's only the most perfunctory effort. It reads as terribly modern, and I found that distracting. Sukeena is very much cast as the Magical Negro, and I had issues with the descriptions of her - they're very exoticizing, and she doesn't really have any personality beyond \"dangerous\" or \"sensual\" or \"protective\". For all that Ellen says they're \"friends\", she constantly refers to Sukeena as \"my maid\" and only seems to deal with Sukeena in relation to what Sukeena can do for her - supernaturally, physically, sexually. That's...not really what I consider a friendship. I'm not saying that a white woman of the early 1900s wouldn't have radically different views towards black people in general, but it's poorly-done. And there's no real motivation for Sukeena to a) be so loyal to Ellen, and indeed, b)have come to America in the first place. ...more I went back an re-watched \"Rose Red\" recently (on VHS no less! Recorded straight from the magic talking box! Remnant of an ABC in whose programming only lawyers existed!), a mini-series remembered fondly by myself and about five other Americans, and decided to read (or, more accurately, listen) to this book. I found myself very pleasantly surprised by this lil' story, a nice spooky tale to enjoy of an evening, particularly for Winchester Mystery House enthusiasts such as myself. Nothing terribly I went back an re-watched \"Rose Red\" recently (on VHS no less! Recorded straight from the magic talking box! Remnant of an ABC in whose programming only lawyers existed!), a mini-series remembered fondly by myself and about five other Americans, and decided to read (or, more accurately, listen) to this book. I found myself very pleasantly surprised by this lil' story, a nice spooky tale to enjoy of an evening, particularly for Winchester Mystery House enthusiasts such as myself. Nothing terribly deep, nothing terribly innovative, but an oddly soothing, almost old-fashioned, haunted house tale. *I feel like I should also qualify my positive review, after reading many very negative ones, thusly: this book is what it is: a fun, if somewhat silly, ghost story in the tradition of \"The House On Haunted Hill\" and other Vincent Price gems. This is a good book to listen to; it might be less entertaining to read. It is, to me painfully obviously, NOT an actual diary of an actual Edwardian lady, this broad is way too open-minded and saucy in her writings to be real, but it is an enjoyably campy take on what an anonymous writer writing a fake diary as a companion to a Stephen King mini-series would think an Edwardian lady's thoughts would be like. Don't overthink this thing and you might just enjoy the ride. ...more You all remember the popular Stephen King mini-series that aired earlier this year on ABC under the auspicious title of Rose Red: the story of a group of \u201cgifted people\u201d who, with the help of Joyce Reardon, venture into the old abandoned mansion known as Rose Red, where within they come in contact with the supernatural, though in no way that has ever been televised before. But what happened to the former occupants of the house? The ghosts that now dwell within, what were their lives like? Well h You all remember the popular Stephen King mini-series that aired earlier this year on ABC under the auspicious title of Rose Red: the story of a group of \u201cgifted people\u201d who, with the help of Joyce Reardon, venture into the old abandoned mansion known as Rose Red, where within they come in contact with the supernatural, though in no way that has ever been televised before. But what happened to the former occupants of the house? The ghosts that now dwell within, what were their lives like? Well here\u2019s your answer. For the first time ever the diary of Ellen Rimbauer has been released to the public, giving her life story and how it was fraught with pain and loss, and how Rose Red eventually drove her insane. My only suggestion to the read would be: it\u2019s okay to leave the light on if you want to. Originally published in July/August 2002. For over 500 book reviews, and over 40 exclusive author interviews (both audio and written), visit BookBanter . ...more When I last reviewed a book in diary form - Stray - I mentioned, that it's not my favourite type of narrative and here's a very good example of why this is. Ellen's superficial and self absorbed ramblings are simply annoying. I couldn't stand her and since it's her diary there is no escape. And if you skip pages of details about wardrobe or her feeling sorry for herself because her husband isn't treating her well (a man she only married because of his money and social status, mind you) there just When I last reviewed a book in diary form - Stray - I mentioned, that it's not my favourite type of narrative and here's a very good example of why this is. Ellen's superficial and self absorbed ramblings are simply annoying. I couldn't stand her and since it's her diary there is no escape. And if you skip pages of details about wardrobe or her feeling sorry for herself because her husband isn't treating her well (a man she only married because of his money and social status, mind you) there just isn't enough story left to make this a good book. I have to admit it was probably my mistake to read this now and not while I was watching the TV show. It might have made more sense in that context and I might have enjoyed it more. Who knows. ...more The book was SO much better than the mini series! The details in the book, & the complete spookiness & shocking details come across as a REAL diary. If it hadn't been written by Stephen King, you'd think it could have been a real experience. This was completely awesome. I love Stephen King anyway, but this little book is quite possibly the least sensationalized & most realistic thing he's ever done. I HIGHLY recommend it as a read. Preferably at night, when you're home alone, & i The book was SO much better than the mini series! The details in the book, & the complete spookiness & shocking details come across as a REAL diary. If it hadn't been written by Stephen King, you'd think it could have been a real experience. This was completely awesome. I love Stephen King anyway, but this little book is quite possibly the least sensationalized & most realistic thing he's ever done. I HIGHLY recommend it as a read. Preferably at night, when you're home alone, & it's storming.....I guarantee you can't stop turning the pages. ...more This poor book. It tried so hard and fell so flat. It's touted as based on real events from a real diary from the real live past, but I think you'd have to be pretty gullible to think it was anything but fiction. It wasn't compelling enough for you to suspend belief, nor realistic enough, nor period enough. It flopped as a horror novel and couldn't even rise to the occasion to be a sex novel (though I think it might have wanted to be one if it couldn't succeed on the horror front). Flop, flop, f This poor book. It tried so hard and fell so flat. It's touted as based on real events from a real diary from the real live past, but I think you'd have to be pretty gullible to think it was anything but fiction. It wasn't compelling enough for you to suspend belief, nor realistic enough, nor period enough. It flopped as a horror novel and couldn't even rise to the occasion to be a sex novel (though I think it might have wanted to be one if it couldn't succeed on the horror front). Flop, flop, flop, yet I read it from cover to cover. I guess there is that. ...more picked up at the thrift store. eh, one of those \"it's really a true story... see, we made a website to prove it!\" ala Blair Witch Project. Fake diary of woman living in house she thinks is possessed - like many other \"diary\" books this one doesn't ring true as being someone's private writings nor does the style/language fit the time frame. It goes back to the thrift store for someone else to pick up for 50cents http://labaldatorcida.blogspot.com.es... This turned out as a huuuuuge disappointment.<+++>The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red</+++>", "Title": "The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red"},
