{"Comments": "<+++>The Genetic Lottery (<---B>Egalia, #1</---B>)</+++>A thought provoking dystopic novel. Short but fast-paced making for an exciting read. Gets more exciting with each chapter, unpredictable plot with enjoyable ending. Hope the author will publish a sequel soon ! Very worth it for just 99 cents ! Fast-paced quick read. Very interesting concepts exploring genetic selection, money and power.<---F> Did not expect the end</---F>. Looking forward to the next one! It was a very quick read but it was quite a compelling read. I loved the twists towards the end. The book challenges one's beliefs about money, power, politics and trust and I think this book did a good job of keeping me guessing about who was the true protagonist of the whole story. I think the transitions between storylines and the dialogue could have been a little bit smoother but outside of that I do like how the stage is set for a sequel while bringing some sort of closure to this particula It was a very quick read but it was quite a compelling read. I loved the twists towards the end. The book challenges one's beliefs about money, power, politics and trust and I think this book did a good job of keeping me guessing about who was the true protagonist of the whole story. I think the transitions between storylines and the dialogue could have been a little bit smoother but outside of that I do like how the stage is set for a sequel while bringing some sort of closure to this particular story. ...more Goh fails to properly introduce you to the world and plunges you right into the story. I had so many questions just from page one. She introduces new elements like a side note which makes for some rather chaotic storytelling. Her style of writing tells me rather than shows me the story and I was growing increasingly frustrated with how fake the characters seemed. New characters are introduced, given no personalities and then promptly discarded once their purpose had been fulfilled. This concept Goh fails to properly introduce you to the world and plunges you right into the story. I had so many questions just from page one. She introduces new elements like a side note which makes for some rather chaotic storytelling. Her style of writing tells me rather than shows me the story and I was growing increasingly frustrated with how fake the characters seemed. New characters are introduced, given no personalities and then promptly discarded once their purpose had been fulfilled. This concept had potential. The execution was poor. I powered through the book because it was fairly short despite how much I cringed whenever someone in the book talked. Or did anything really. I just sat there thinking to myself that I'm pretty sure no actual people behave this way. The plot twist was also predictable and the attempt at cliffhangers was severely lacking. There were also multiple inconsistencies and fallacies in the story itself that irked me to no end. The beginning of the story would establish one thing but then later the story would do a full 180 and negate that previous statement. I wanted to like this book, this is the kind of book I love reading but this world was not a believable world, let's leave it at that. ...more I love the fast-paced storyline and how it keeps me guessing who is the antagonist the entire time. Lots of twists and turns guaranteed! It also makes you think deeper about current technological/corporate/societal/political issues and some of the \"futuristic\" elements in the story is creepy but at the same time very plausible in the future as well. Kudos to the author's imagination! It was a clever concept about the future and the fast pace story had me hooked. I really liked the attention to detail with the way of life like the pods for transportation and the nutrient pills instead of actual food. I did NOT see the twist coming at the end, revealing who Alex really was and his true motives. Would definitely recommend and will be reading the next in the series! Short but nice indeed. It opens up interesting topics about ethic and technology, first of all the importance of feelings: they come first power and money? And why? Can't wait for read the second book! Badly in need of editing. If I were still a young English student, I'd be writing papers about the themes of the stories that naturally bubble up out of the zeitgeist. For some years now, pessimistic, dystopian stories and stories about apocalypses have been bubbling up on both sides of the Atlantic. One could debate whether these stories are written for a receptive market or whether there is something about our times that leads authors to write this kind of story. I'm a zeitgeister. I think writers write these stories b If I were still a young English student, I'd be writing papers about the themes of the stories that naturally bubble up out of the zeitgeist. For some years now, pessimistic, dystopian stories and stories about apocalypses have been bubbling up on both sides of the Atlantic. One could debate whether these stories are written for a receptive market or whether there is something about our times that leads authors to write this kind of story. I'm a zeitgeister. I think writers write these stories because they feel that they must. This story is not notable for polished narrative, but the author does have sensitive fingers on the pulse of the zeitgeist. ...more<---A>Allison Goh</---A><---C>Allison Goh</---C><+++>The Genetic Lottery (Egalia, #1)</+++>", "Title": "The Genetic Lottery (Egalia, #1)"},
