{"Comments": "Re-read January, 2014 with Jeannette and Diane Lynn: Actually a better read the second time around, (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [as I was able to watch for the myriad clues Kearsley had laid down throughout the storyline that culminated in her cool twist at the end. (hide spoiler) ] Great story; warm and wonderful characters. I cried again this time around, which is always a bonus feature :D Original Review: How does she do it? No, seriously, how does <---A>Susanna Kearsley</---A> manage to engage me, move me to tears and surp Re-read January, 2014 with Jeannette and Diane Lynn: Actually a better read the second time around, (view spoiler) [as I was able to watch for the myriad clues Kearsley had laid down throughout the storyline that culminated in her cool twist at the end. (hide spoiler) ] Great story; warm and wonderful characters. I cried again this time around, which is always a bonus feature :D Original Review: How does she do it? No, seriously, how does Susanna Kearsley manage to engage me, move me to tears and surprise me time and time again with her brillant writing skills? Frankly,<---M> I have no answers</---M>, except to say that Kearsley's stories speak directly to my heart in a way no other writer since M.M. Kaye , Mary Stewart or Daphne DuMaurier has done. The worlds she pens are grounded in the every day realities of modern life, but brushed with the magic of possibilities of lives redeemed, transformed, or made complete by the convergence or confluence of time slip or time travel. That meeting of past and present lives is full of historical adventure and romance, and usually offers the reader a nice surprise twist by the end (not to mention a few tears along the way). The emotional appeal and impact of <+++>The Rose Garden</+++> is further strengthened by the fact that the main character, Eva, has suffered the loss of her beloved sister at the beginning of the novel. Her coming to terms with that loss, and where she belongs in the world, is an ever present fixture throughout the book. Fans of Kearsley will know that she lost her own sister not long ago, so the feelings expressed and felt by Eva are no doubt culled in some part from the writer's own experience, and will certainly resonate with those of us who too have lost people we love. There are some minor quibbles I have that make the story less then a \"perfect book\": the love story (which read in places like a cheesy romance novel), the novel's pacing (which alternated between smoothly flowing and engaging to slow and boring, IMO - sorry!) the time travel aspects (which were pulled off fairly well, but it still wasn't possible to suspend disbelief 100% of the time) and the somewhat abrupt ending (could we not get a little epilogue or something??) However, as my 5 stars will attest, it was the \"perfect book\" for me, and certainly now becomes my second favorite Kearsley after Mariana , which still holds top spot. <+++>The Rose Garden</+++> resonates with haunting passages reminiscent of du Maurier's novel, Frenchman's Creek , lyrical place descriptions worthy of Mary Stewart , and the hallmark emotional punch of Kearsley's own style, which is in a class all it's own. Thank you, Susanna, for another winner! Now please write faster... ...more I find it difficult to rate this novel. On one hand, I was sufficiently engaged by the narrative and the characters to read it in two or three sittings. On the other hand, it requires a massive suspension of disbelief, which at times I found difficult to sustain. The heroine is Eva Ward, who after the death of her much loved sister, travels from the United States to Cornwall to scatter her sister's ashes near Trelowarth House, where she and her sister spent their childhood summers. Family friend I find it difficult to rate this novel. On one hand, I was sufficiently engaged by the narrative and the characters to read it in two or three sittings. On the other hand, it requires a massive suspension of disbelief, which at times I found difficult to sustain. The heroine is Eva Ward, who after the death of her much loved sister, travels from the United States to Cornwall to scatter her sister's ashes near Trelowarth House, where she and her sister spent their childhood summers. Family friends - rose grower Mark and his sister Susan - still live in the house and their artist stepmother Claire lives in a cottage on the estate. Eva inexplicably finds herself time-travelling back to Trelowarth House as it was in 1715, where she encounters the smuggling Butler brothers and their Irish friend Fergal O'Cleary and becomes caught up in an aspect of the 1715 Jacobite rebellion. The rebellion is the event around which the 1715 part of the narrative revolves, but it's not really the point of the novel. Rather, this is a romance between Eva and Daniel Butler, a couple separated by time. I'm not sure whether I like the novel because I have some (very distant) Cornish ancestry, because I've been to Cornwall and can picture the landscape in my head or because I love Daphne du Maurier's descriptive writing and I strongly feel the possibly unconscious influence of Frenchman's Creek on Kearsley's writing. It may be a combination of all of those factors. In addition, I like Kearsley's prose and her ability to describe landscape. However, even the strengths of the novel don't completely hide its weaknesses. One of them is Kearsley's attempt to provide scientific support for the idea of time travel. As I recall, she did the same thing with the concept of genetic memory in The Winter Sea . This is neither helpful nor necessary, particularly in the case of this novel, as Kearsley refers to Stephen Hawking in support of an assertion that time travel is possible. This is problematic because Hawking, as far as I know, believes that forward time travel may be possible, but not backward time travel. If you're writing a work of the imagination, then whether or not time travel is actually possible is beside the point and references to science only draw attention to the implausibility of the concept. And implausible it is, because in this novel time travel seems to happen randomly with no persuasive explanation for why it only happens to Eva (view spoiler) [and, as it happens, to one other character (hide spoiler) ] .* Speaking of implausible, something that really struck me was just how incurious those 18th century men seem to be. A young woman materialises in the house and announces she's from 300 years in the future and virtually the only reaction is \"You're from the future? Right then, you'd best pop on this frock 'cos you look a bit funny and why don't you pretend you can't talk so that people don't notice your funny accent. Now, what'll we have for supper?\" I think not. Another problem is the fact that not a lot actually happens. Eva is sad, she goes to Cornwall, she travels back and forward in time.<---F> She falls in love</---F>. When back in 1715, she's a woman, so she can't really do very much except wait around for things to happen. That said, there's a bit more action in the last quarter of the novel and a nice twist at the end, part of which I had anticipated, but elements of the twist still took me by surprise. I know that I'm being nit-picky about a book which I actually enjoyed reading. Overall, I would have preferred a little more depth and a little less fluff. But this does not pretend to be great literature. It's pure escapism and a pleasant way to spend a few hours. And it made me want to go back to Cornwall, which is no bad thing. This is in 3-1/2 star territory, but creeping up towards four. I liked it more than The Winter Sea and Season of Storms , but not as much as Every Secret Thing . I'm still waiting for the Kearsley novel which will blow me away. *An explanation of sorts is provided, but it's very weak. ...more 4.5 stars 'Whatever time we have,' he said, 'it will be time enough.' When Eva Ward's sister dies she returns to Cornwall to scatter her ashes, to the place where they had spent their happy childhood summers, Trelowarth House. The gardens at Trelowarth have for generations grown roses and been tended by generations of Halletts, with Eva's friends Mark and his sister Susan Hallett now in charge of the house and gardens. It is on her first morning there that Eva begins to experience a series of stran 4.5 stars 'Whatever time we have,' he said, 'it will be time enough.' When Eva Ward's sister dies she returns to Cornwall to scatter her ashes, to the place where they had spent their happy childhood summers, Trelowarth House. The gardens at Trelowarth have for generations grown roses and been tended by generations of Halletts, with Eva's friends Mark and his sister Susan Hallett now in charge of the house and gardens. It is on her first morning there that Eva begins to experience a series of strange events, voices and hallucinations that she puts down to grief and stress at the recent loss of her sister. But when these hallucinations continue and grow ever clearer, Eva realises that what she is experiencing is real, and that somehow she is able to move back and forth through time. In 1715, Daniel Butler is the resident of Trelowarth House with his brother Jack and his friend Fergal. Daniel is a free-trader, although the law calls him a smuggler. But Eva has landed in a dangerous era. The 1715 Jacobite Uprising was not restricted to Scotland. James Stuart had his supporters in Cornwall as well. And Daniel is caught up in the intrigue of the times. As Eva continues to travel between her own time and the past she becomes increasingly attracted to Daniel. But with no say over how or when she travels through time, Eva wonders how this will all end and if she could ever have a future with Daniel. In the past. Like Susanna Kearsley's other novels I've read, this story has a gothic feel, not darkly gothic but hauntingly beautiful. She brings the story alive incorporating details of 18th century life such as food and cooking, running a household, clothing, sailing; and setting her story around real historical figures who were instrumental in the Jacobite Uprising in Cornwall. Susanna Kearsley effortlessly draws all the threads of her story together at the end, weaving the sub-plots into an integrated whole. Characters, remarks, events that seem incidental to the story become important later on. There is something so masterful and yet deceptively simple about Susanna Kearsley's prose. Her writing is like the little black cocktail dress - simple, classic, elegant. When Eva tries to understand what is happening to her, Daniel explains - 'When I meet a wind I cannot fight,' he said, 'I can do naught but set my sails to let it take me where it will.' Beautifully crafted, Susanna Kearsley has written another romantic historical fiction as fine as 'Mariana' and 'The Winter Sea'. At the conclusion of 'The Rose Garden' I was left with a sense of deep satisfaction. This is romantic historical fiction at its best. 4.5 stars ...more To me, a good time travel yarn must display a certain amount of plausibility. I found this vital element lacking in \"The Rose Garden.\" Daniel and Fergal should have been shocked by a woman from the future suddenly appearing out of thin air; they should have been questioning her about her strange appearance, what time period she came from, and what it is like in the future. Instead, they're pretty much blas\u00e9 about this mysterious phantom woman. Fergal is a little taken aback at first but any misg To me, a good time travel yarn must display a certain amount of plausibility. I found this vital element lacking in \"The Rose Garden.\" Daniel and Fergal should have been shocked by a woman from the future suddenly appearing out of thin air; they should have been questioning her about her strange appearance, what time period she came from, and what it is like in the future. Instead, they're pretty much blas\u00e9 about this mysterious phantom woman. Fergal is a little taken aback at first but any misgivings he has are short-lived. Before you know it, he's behaving like a mother hen towards this poor girl from the future. The author attempts to explain this scenario by depicting Daniel and Fergus as \"scientific types.\" Well, scientifically-minded or not, most people would be slightly freaked out by something like this happening. This scenario is not even remotely believable. Although I thought the writing was good and I enjoyed reading the descriptions of Cornwall, I thought the characters were flat and uninteresting. This is the first book by Susanna Kearsley I've read. Not sure I'll venture to read \"Winter Sea.\" ...more I find it interesting that Susanna Kearsley's books are compared to works by Daphne du Maurier, Mary Stewart, and Diana Gabaldon, some of my favorite authors. Kearsley certainly has du Maurier's talent for sense of place and Stewart's mix of romance and suspense, however I'm not so sold on the Gabaldon comparison though both do deal with time-travel. Gabladon's books are dense and history-heavy (something I happen to love) and while this may be historical fiction it's of a much lighter variety. I find it interesting that Susanna Kearsley's books are compared to works by Daphne du Maurier, Mary Stewart, and Diana Gabaldon, some of my favorite authors. Kearsley certainly has du Maurier's talent for sense of place and Stewart's mix of romance and suspense, however I'm not so sold on the Gabaldon comparison though both do deal with time-travel. Gabladon's books are dense and history-heavy (something I happen to love) and while this may be historical fiction it's of a much lighter variety. This book is romantic with just enough suspense and explanation behind the time-travel to make it a thoroughly enjoyable and satisfying read. For me, it would have come in at 4 stars (being a bit light in the historical element with a few references that had me raising my eyebrows) except I loved the time-travel twist at the end--that pushed it almost to 5 stars. A perfect \"escape\" book. ...more 3.5 stars out of 5 I keep seeing it everywhere... \"If you enjoyed Outlander , you'll love The Rose Garden \" Ok...me, me, me!!! I loved Outlander and the entire Outlander series. So, that means I'll love this book right? Wrong. I didn't LOVE it. I liked it. It was good but not outstanding (the way Outlander was). It was interesting but not interesting enough to warrant the comparison to Outlander. Hold up, don't get me wrong here. This book was good. I thought the beginning was excellent. I thought the 3.5 stars out of 5 I keep seeing it everywhere... \"If you enjoyed Outlander , you'll love The Rose Garden \" Ok...me, me, me!!! I loved Outlander and the entire Outlander series. So, that means I'll love this book right? Wrong. I didn't LOVE it. I liked it. It was good but not outstanding (the way Outlander was). It was interesting but not interesting enough to warrant the comparison to Outlander. Hold up, don't get me wrong here. This book was good. I thought the beginning was excellent. I thought the ending was satisfying. It was the middle that made the book just good but not great. My experience with Susanna Kearsley consists of The Winter Sea & this book. Both books I absolutely adored at the beginning. Both books I loved the ending. Both books I almost stopped reading in the middle out of pure boredom. Notice a pattern? Yup, the author has a tendency to drag the middle portion of her books to the point of book-stopping-boredom. I've learned in my vast Kearsley reading experience to read through the boredom so that I can be rewarded with a fantastic ending. It would be nice if her books didn't bore me at all in the middle but I can't have everything! Ok. I\u2019ve said a lot without saying one word about the actual story. (it\u2019s a talent of mine) The Story- The story is actually really simple- Girl\u2019s sister dies. Girl goes back \u201chome\u201d to scatter sister\u2019s ashes. Girl time travels. Girl falls for guy back in time. What to do? What to do? That pretty much sums up the plot. What saves the simple plot is the characters. They are well written and even the minor characters are interesting. Overall- Good but not great. Definitely not Outlander. Good book to read in between books in the Outlander series! ...more Where to begin? If you have read a Susanna Kersley's book before you would know that she writes her stories in dual time. You have the present where the story begins and the past where the actual story takes place and she will find one way or the other to get you there. In Winter Sea she brought us to the past by introducing a character who had the memories of one of her ancestors, in Marianna it was reincarnation and in the Rose Garden there is actual time travel to the past. Now why exactly on Where to begin? If you have read a Susanna Kersley's book before you would know that she writes her stories in dual time. You have the present where the story begins and the past where the actual story takes place and she will find one way or the other to get you there. In Winter Sea she brought us to the past by introducing a character who had the memories of one of her ancestors, in Marianna it was reincarnation and in the Rose Garden there is actual time travel to the past. Now why exactly only the main character and some other character seems to suffer from this particular problem is not sufficiently explained even though the author did mention something about a calling and need that is so great that it transcends time. That combined with the corresponding geographical location VOILA!! you have instant time travel. So there is Eva losing her sister and best friend Katrina to some illness in the present. Who travels to Trelowarths, a place where she and her sister spent time in their childhood, to scatter her ashes. While staying at Trelowarths Eva gets transported to the past to the year 1715 where she meets Danial Butler a smuggler who lived at Trelowarths at that time. Boy meets Girl and the story takes on...Of course this book cannot be classified as straight romance as there is a lot of history thrown in to the mix, which is highly accurate. In all the Susanna Kearsley book I have read the past is always centered around the failed Jacobite revolution of 1715. Even though each and every one of the protogonist does not suffer a sad ending due to the same it nevertheless it does not amount to a satisfying read knowing that all the planning and preparation is going for a failed cause( that is if you are a fan of happy endings). In fact I think this book along with the two books mentioned above should be termed as series reads because the background for the story is same, only the characters and places differ. The same formula borders on to predictabilty that one suffers only when one is acquainted with the author's other works. As a stand alone novel The Rose Garden is an interesting read. The author has a gift with words that helps to create vivid images for the reader. The descriptions are endless and detailed about every other irrelevant thing in this book except the description of the main character. Even now after finishing the book I still don't know what the main character Eva looks like. Was she tall? What was the color of her hair? her eyes?. The author leaves this entirely up to the readers descretion but frankly I found it very difficult to read on without having any idea about whom to place in the scenarios. The character development was good though unbelievable at times. The truth is, it is hard to believe that both the characters have fallen head over heels in love only after a few encounters. I don't think there were enough exchanges between them to warrent such an outcome and that too when Daniel Butler was supposedily suffering from the lose of his beloved wife. On the whole The Rose Garden is a fascinating read if you have not much experience with the author's other novels but even then it does not fall short of a good read. I would recommend this book to people who are in to time travel fiction. ...more A delightful blend of romance, time travel and historical fiction that actually reminded me a bit of one of my favorite books Outlander . A quick and easy read that brought the handsome Daniel Butler and charming Fergal of the late 1700's to life to join Eva in a mysterious adventure. Loved it! Red is the rose that in yonder garden grows Fair is the lily of the valley Clear is the water that flows from the Boyne But my love is fairer than any. Come over the hills, my bonnie Irish lass Come over the hills to your darling You choose the rose, love, and I'll make the vow And I'll be your true love forever. 'Twas down by Killarney's green woods that we strayed When the moon and the stars they were shining The moon shone its rays on her locks of golden hair And she swore she'd be my love forever. Choru Red is the rose that in yonder garden grows Fair is the lily of the valley Clear is the water that flows from the Boyne But my love is fairer than any. Come over the hills, my bonnie Irish lass Come over the hills to your darling You choose the rose, love, and I'll make the vow And I'll be your true love forever. 'Twas down by Killarney's green woods that we strayed When the moon and the stars they were shining The moon shone its rays on her locks of golden hair And she swore she'd be my love forever. Chorus It's not for the parting that my sister pains It's not for the grief of my mother 'Tis all for the loss of my bonny Irish lass That my heart is breaking forever. Chorus Thought most of this fit the spirit of the book nicely. Not in the proper headspace for a review (our cat Goldy died today, such a sweetie ).. I may update later with some quotes from the story buy I do highly recommend it m ...more I didn\u2019t have to read much of this to realise that Susanna Kearsley\u2019s work is going to be the perfect replacement for the comfort reading I got all the way through in the last two or three years (Mary Stewart\u2019s romance/adventures). It has the same sense of place, the beautiful descriptions of landscape, and the same sort of heroine: female, curious, about to be swept up in bigger events than she\u2019d ever have expected. And better: this is explicitly fantastical, where most of Mary Stewart\u2019s books I didn\u2019t have to read much of this to realise that Susanna Kearsley\u2019s work is going to be the perfect replacement for the comfort reading I got all the way through in the last two or three years (Mary Stewart\u2019s romance/adventures). It has the same sense of place, the beautiful descriptions of landscape, and the same sort of heroine: female, curious, about to be swept up in bigger events than she\u2019d ever have expected. And better: this is explicitly fantastical, where most of Mary Stewart\u2019s books were more mysteries, sometimes with hints at fantasy. And better again, whew, we don\u2019t have first cousins getting married at the end. It does start off with kind of a slow pace, and Eva is only rarely involved in actual action, despite the backdrop of free trading and other such types of derring-do. And it is indeed a romance, so the ending is a happy one for most of the characters (though there\u2019s a sadder note, too, with Eva\u2019s sister\u2019s husband; I was glad there was some closure at the end of story with him as well, even if it was a sadder story), and there\u2019s plenty of romance going on \u2014 not just for Eva, but in the background. And yeah, I think Fergal and Daniel take the time travelling woman a little too lightly. They\u2019re curious, but not curious enough to feel realistic. They both just decide to protect her right away. But I enjoyed it anyway: it has a great atmosphere, and the writing flows well. It\u2019s a bit like The Time Traveler\u2019s Wife, I guess, in that I wouldn\u2019t want to examine how the timeline works too closely lest it fall apart, but it was the ideal fluff, and it had enough substance that I cared about the characters. ...more I would really have loved to give this 3.5 stars. www.theultimatebooknook.blogspot.com After reading The Winter Sea, I knew I had to read more by that author, so I picked this book up. I wanted to love it as much as I did The Winter Sea but sadly I didn't. It was still enjoyable and very well written, it just didn't have the enchantment that The Winter Sea did. Kearsley is a fantastic writer. She brings you into these worlds and makes you feel them. She can bring out so many emotions in just one boo I would really have loved to give this 3.5 stars. www.theultimatebooknook.blogspot.com After reading The Winter Sea, I knew I had to read more by that author, so I picked this book up. I wanted to love it as much as I did The Winter Sea but sadly I didn't. It was still enjoyable and very well written, it just didn't have the enchantment that The Winter Sea did. Kearsley is a fantastic writer. She brings you into these worlds and makes you feel them. She can bring out so many emotions in just one book. You are sad, then happy and in love. You laugh and cry and feel every moment of the story. Very few authors can do that. Once again, Kearsley found a way to weave past and present together in an incredible way. It amazes me, the inventiveness she uses to put these stories together. Just like with the other book, I was much more into the past's story line than the present's. It is probably the hopeless romantic in me, since this is where the love story happens. The Rose Garden sagged a little in the middle. I found myself skimming parts trying to find where the story was going to pick up again. But, the plot twist at the end made up for that. I just felt the ending was too rushed. I wanted to know more. I wanted the loose ends to be tied up a bit better. I can't say much without giving parts of the story away but if you read it, I'm sure you will understand. In the end it was a good book, just a bit disappointing. I wanted more out of the story. I will be reading more by Ms. Kearsley, though. I can't wait to see what else she has in store for me. ...more Recently divorced and at loose ends in life, Eva Ward accepts the task of scattering her dead sister\u2019s ashes at their childhood home in Cornwall. Eva settles in for a long stay at Trelowarth house, but in true Kearsley fashion things start going bump in the night \u2013 and Eva is walking a path in the present one moment and the is next she\u2019s stepped into the past \u2013 1715 to be exact. She\u2019s soon involved up to her neck with brothers Daniel and Jack Butler, Both smugglers like any good Cornishman, but Recently divorced and at loose ends in life, Eva Ward accepts the task of scattering her dead sister\u2019s ashes at their childhood home in Cornwall. Eva settles in for a long stay at Trelowarth house, but in true Kearsley fashion things start going bump in the night \u2013 and Eva is walking a path in the present one moment and the is next she\u2019s stepped into the past \u2013 1715 to be exact. She\u2019s soon involved up to her neck with brothers Daniel and Jack Butler, Both smugglers like any good Cornishman, but they\u2019re also plotting with the Jacobites and things get a bit complicated at times\u2026 \u201cIt was not the best of places I could be.\u201d So as not to spoil I won\u2019t reveal anymore, but fans of Kearsley should enjoy this a lot. This was a nice blend of time travel, romance, mystery and political intrigues. The time travel is handled nicely and is believable, although there was an unexpected twist at the end that took me by surprise \u2013 not 100% sure if I bought into that one. I liked watching the relationship grow between Eva and Daniel, but at the same time I didn\u2019t find as much sizzle off the page chemistry I\u2019d normally like to see. This is a book best to cuddle up with on a quiet weekend alone, and I mistakenly read it mid-week when my concentration wasn\u2019t at its best. My bad. Kearsley fans will love this to bits, but while I enjoyed this it wasn\u2019t quite up to par with The Winter Sea. 4/5 stars. Many thanks to Sourcebooks for an advance copy. ...more Romance,historical fiction,fantasy? All genres fit this story. A young woman grieving the death of her sister finds comfort in the rambling old house on the Cornish coast, full of happy memories of summers past. All is not as it seems though, as Eva finds herself hopscotching between the present and the distant past of the 1700s. In the present,she is helping her childhood friends hang on to the family estate fallen on hard times. In the past she is introduced to the early residents, Daniel and Romance,historical fiction,fantasy? All genres fit this story. A young woman grieving the death of her sister finds comfort in the rambling old house on the Cornish coast, full of happy memories of summers past. All is not as it seems though, as Eva finds herself hopscotching between the present and the distant past of the 1700s. In the present,she is helping her childhood friends hang on to the family estate fallen on hard times. In the past she is introduced to the early residents, Daniel and Jack Butler and their friend Fergal. There she is caught up in the world of smugglers, free traders as they call themselves. Romance, danger and high seas adventure combine to leave Eva's head spinning as she tries to maintain her grip on her senses. I found the story engaging and the characters easy to like or dislike as the case may be. I liked the fact the Eva's time travel was unpredictable and frequently inconvenient. This led to some terrific humor that only added to the strength of the story.I appreciate the way this author spins her story web,leaving the reader happily encased til the story's end. ...more In all honesty, I didn't think I was going to like this book at first. It started promising, but then just kept dragging on and on and ooonnnn with flowery descriptions and melancholy reminiscences until I wanted to scream, \"Get on with it! \" But then, right around chapter 8, things finally started getting interesting. Once I'd made it to chapter 10 or so, I couldn't put it down. It won't be everyone's cup of tea, but I love time travel stories and this one hits the mark pretty well. My favorite c In all honesty, I didn't think I was going to like this book at first. It started promising, but then just kept dragging on and on and ooonnnn with flowery descriptions and melancholy reminiscences until I wanted to scream, \"Get on with it! \" But then, right around chapter 8, things finally started getting interesting. Once I'd made it to chapter 10 or so, I couldn't put it down. It won't be everyone's cup of tea, but I love time travel stories and this one hits the mark pretty well. My favorite characters were Daniel and Claire, and the twist at the end is just completely cool. I can't even really find words to describe it. Just...neat. This book made my night. I hope it makes yours. ...more That twist! Brilliant! And so cleverly done. I didn't see it coming at all, but the foundation for it had been subtly built throughout the book without my noticing at all. It all just fit so seamlessly into the story. You know when some detail of a book so obviously sets up some plot point later in the book? This was the opposite! I could have wished for the ending to be a bit more flushed out (I love a good reunion scene), but other than that, this was well written, intriguing, character-driven, That twist! Brilliant! And so cleverly done. I didn't see it coming at all, but the foundation for it had been subtly built throughout the book without my noticing at all. It all just fit so seamlessly into the story. You know when some detail of a book so obviously sets up some plot point later in the book? This was the opposite! I could have wished for the ending to be a bit more flushed out (I love a good reunion scene), but other than that, this was well written, intriguing, character-driven, and unpredictable. Since this was my first Kearsley I didn't know whether a happy ending was inevitable, so I was more anxious than usual during the last 20%, but that just made it more suspenseful and exciting. Time travels are usually hit or miss for me, but this was a different take on it since Eva traveled back and forth throughout the book rather than being stuck in one time period. I would say the majority of the book took place in the present and I loved the scenes from the past, so I could have spent hours longer on that, but small quibble. When you love a book, don't you always wish there was more? Can't wait for my next Kearsley! ...more A comfortable, easy to read book containing romance, time travel, history and a lot of detail about the Cornish coast. I love Cornwall and, like the main character in the book, I used to holiday there. It is a delightful place but to my shame I never felt any magic when I crossed the Tamar. Perhaps that's just me. Anyway this was a pleasant enough story to while away a few hours. It was odd that Daniel was so totally unfazed when a strange woman kept popping up in his house and then disappearing A comfortable, easy to read book containing romance, time travel, history and a lot of detail about the Cornish coast. I love Cornwall and, like the main character in the book, I used to holiday there. It is a delightful place but to my shame I never felt any magic when I crossed the Tamar. Perhaps that's just me. Anyway this was a pleasant enough story to while away a few hours. It was odd that Daniel was so totally unfazed when a strange woman kept popping up in his house and then disappearing again but at least she was clothed (remember The Time Traveler's Wife ?). ...more The Rose Garden is a sweet historical romance that's not especially deep but is warm, light and generally happy. It is set in the cosy atmosphere of Cornwall in southern England, complete with its peculiar Brontean landscape and its changing weather, friendly people who are so easy to like, ancient customs and traditions and the long history that has matured the whole package like good wine. Time travel takes us right back into history and is necessary for the development of the story, though it The Rose Garden is a sweet historical romance that's not especially deep but is warm, light and generally happy. It is set in the cosy atmosphere of Cornwall in southern England, complete with its peculiar Brontean landscape and its changing weather, friendly people who are so easy to like, ancient customs and traditions and the long history that has matured the whole package like good wine. Time travel takes us right back into history and is necessary for the development of the story, though it interferes very little and is more romantic than scientific. It facilitates the characters' meeting and nothing more. The romance is sweet and ... romantic , and the characters almost live things in the right order, just a day or so out. It was a relief to find no description at all, and without it the atmosphere and storyline hold perfectly. This is a good book to give a bit of comfort when needed, a light and warm pick-me-up that is a pleasant read from beginning to end. ...more Not as rich as The Winter Sea - with a few very similar characters (oh, hello handsome overly confident man who rents cottages!) but all in all still a sweetly magical story. I like the way she integrates her history lessons, and I love her ode to her childhood Cornwall, enough to overlook some plot annoyances. (view spoiler) [It drove me a little crazy that she didn't explore the places where she detected changes in the landscape often, ie, the woods, etc., to actively try to get back to the pas Not as rich as The Winter Sea - with a few very similar characters (oh, hello handsome overly confident man who rents cottages!) but all in all still a sweetly magical story. I like the way she integrates her history lessons, and I love her ode to her childhood Cornwall, enough to overlook some plot annoyances. (view spoiler) [It drove me a little crazy that she didn't explore the places where she detected changes in the landscape often, ie, the woods, etc., to actively try to get back to the past, especially when she felt she urgently needed to! She just sort of moped about it. (hide spoiler) ] Also, the ending was sweet, but abrupt. ...more I discovered Susanna Kearsley\u2019s stunning work this year through her \u2018Winter Sea\u2019 novel and fell in love with her prose, impeccable story weaving and evocatively unique plots so much so, that I back ordered as many of her books as I could find! And, I continue to devour them happily and greedily. So I was thrilled to discover her newest release, \u2018The Rose Garden\u2019 this month! Her books almost defy categorization because they are haunting time travels woven between historical and contemporary time p I discovered Susanna Kearsley\u2019s stunning work this year through her \u2018Winter Sea\u2019 novel and fell in love with her prose, impeccable story weaving and evocatively unique plots so much so, that I back ordered as many of her books as I could find! And, I continue to devour them happily and greedily. So I was thrilled to discover her newest release, \u2018The Rose Garden\u2019 this month! Her books almost defy categorization because they are haunting time travels woven between historical and contemporary time periods placing them as paranormals. But whatever their \u2018category\u2019 the feelings they evoke and read they provide place them at the top of any list as far as I\u2019m concerned. Like \u2018The Winter Sea\u2019, Kearsley laces the right touch of paranormal with possibility to heighten the sensuous characters so perfectly drawn that their depth and personality allow them to practically leap off the page and take you with them on the journey as centuries melt into one another and the reader becomes deliciously immersed in the tale no matter what the time period and, with minimal effort at doing it. Kearlsey\u2019s \u2018The Rose Garden\u2019 delivers on all accounts with a haunting, atmospheric and romantic story in Eva Ward whose return to the home, Trelowarth, she loved during childhood summers on the Cornish coast brings to life the past and lights her future path. Following the death of her sister Katrina, Eva decides to scatter her ashes in the one place they both felt they truly belonged. Staying with friends Mark and Susan and their step-mother Claire, who have decided to open a Tea Room, she spends the summer helping her friends launch their new venture. And, discovering the voices and hidden pathways of the home and grounds that lead her back three centuries to Jack and Daniel Butler \u2013 original owners of Trelowarth. Somehow, Eva has become an unwitting time traveler whose vistas melts and shifts to reveal a new setting. Well-known and respected smugglers and Jacobites, the Butler brothers operate \u2018The Sally\u2019 a ship conducting trade and are hunted by the evil Constable Creed whose sister, Anna was Daniel\u2019s late wife. Attended by loyal, family friend Fergal, Eva learns the ways of 1714 and wins the heart of Daniel whom she comes to love. But her involuntary shifts between the centuries mean she must discover the meaning behind them, how to help the Butlers and decide where she truly belongs. Thanks to the staunch Claire whose own secret helps Eva unlock the mystery, finding happiness in the right century may be possible. The poetic descriptions and settings coupled with the lyrical prose are so captivating as to weave a web around readers from which there is no desire to escape. Conflict and tension go hand-in-hand between the centuries, their characters and sub-plots delivering a page-turning read in which we keep wondering how this is going to work. All of which is heightened when Daniel pronounces to Eva, \u201cWhatever time we have,\u201d he said, \u201cit will be time enough.\u201d We can feel Eva\u2019s confusion, love, despair and excitement over leaving and returning to Daniel, her time period adjustments and aching for resolution. Clever plot twists and details are elegantly peppered into the story (look for the dagger and watch the plumber) and provide a richly satisfying and provocative story you\u2019ll hate to put down. Curling up with one of Susan\u2019s books is like being under a warm blanket with a cuppa tea before a roaring fire ready to have her tale whisk you away as she does Eva. Run to the bookstore, your Kindle or Nook and purchase this luxurious read that gets A+ in delivering everything you could ever want in a read! ...more First Sentence: I lost my only sister in the last days of November. After the death of her sister, Eva travels from Los Angeles to Cornwall, where they spent summers as children, to scatter her sister\u2019s ashes and find a bit of peace among old friends. She doesn\u2019t expect to, without any warning, find herself transported back to the 18th century, become involved with Jacobite supporters, smugglers and a man to whom she is very attracted. But traveling back-and-forth through time isn\u2019t easy\u2014how does First Sentence: I lost my only sister in the last days of November. After the death of her sister, Eva travels from Los Angeles to Cornwall, where they spent summers as children, to scatter her sister\u2019s ashes and find a bit of peace among old friends. She doesn\u2019t expect to, without any warning, find herself transported back to the 18th century, become involved with Jacobite supporters, smugglers and a man to whom she is very attracted. But traveling back-and-forth through time isn\u2019t easy\u2014how does one explain jeans\u2014and deciding where truly belongs is hardest of all. Ms. Kearsley\u2019s very compelling voice and opening draw one into the story from the first sentence. She knows how to touch your emotions while offsetting that with wonderful situational, dry humor. Ms. Kearsley is very good at giving you the sense of the paranormal with the normal. She shifts time in a way I\u2019ve not previously encountered, which was both interesting and intriguing. However, the problem with writing time travel is developing a explanation for why it happens, and that was never convincingly done, as opposed to in her prior book \u201cThe Winter Sea. There is a very good sense of place and time and both periods of the story. Considering the limited locale in which she was working, this was significant to the enjoyment of the story. You are given a full sense of being there. The plot was intriguing and well done with a fascinating and seamless incorporation of history into the story. .\u201d Ms. Kearsley provided an interesting perspective on being in the past and knowing about those who had no idea they would be known through history. The book begins with shades of it being a gothic, but then moves into romance and was, at times, a bit trite, but with a very good plot twist at the end. \u201cThe Rose Garden\u201d is an enjoyable read but a bit disappointing as one has come to expect a bit more depth from Ms. Kearsley. THE ROSE GARDEN (TT/Rom-Eva-Cornwall, England-Cont/1700s) \u2013 Good Kearsley, Susanna \u2013 Standalone Allison & Busby Ltd, \u00a92011, UK Trade Paperback \u2013 ISBN: 9780749009519 ...more I tend to stay away from time travel stories ever since I read The Time Traveler's Wife . Don't know why, but that book rather ruined the whole phenomena for me. Thankfully, this book has rekindled my fire! The Rose Garden is part romance, part time travel mystery, part historical adventures and part pure whimsical magic. And somehow Kearsley managed to wrap them all together into a really well written piece of art! Eva's sister has just died, and in order to 'bring her where she belongs' she ret I tend to stay away from time travel stories ever since I read The Time Traveler's Wife . Don't know why, but that book rather ruined the whole phenomena for me. Thankfully, this book has rekindled my fire! The Rose Garden is part romance, part time travel mystery, part historical adventures and part pure whimsical magic. And somehow Kearsley managed to wrap them all together into a really well written piece of art! Eva's sister has just died, and in order to 'bring her where she belongs' she returns to their childhood summer spot of the Cornish wilds of England. But while dealing with her grief there, she manages to slip between the veils of time about 300 years into the past. While drifting in between with no logic that she can grasp, Eva ends up falling in love with a smuggler who is living in the house back in the early 1700's. She's torn between staying with him and staying in her time, but realizes that there is ultimately nothing keeping her in the present. Or is there? She has very good friends and perhaps a love interest there as well. Not to mention a really great future in her career. And yet is love worth leaving your own time for? The things that got me the most in the book were the heart-wrenching details of love (hopeless romantic here) and the nifty sci-fi time travel bits. At first I wanted to figure out the logic of it all as well, and was planning on writing a pretty scathing review tearing the logic to shreds, but by the end of the story it all made perfect sense. Now, as a California girl, I'd love to go visit this rough and tumble coast and see it's magic firsthand. Definitely dropping by one day! ...more I thought this book was beautifully written. I know others have criticized the book, saying that it's not believable. To this I say, reading any fiction book or watching any movie that isn't a documentary requires suspension of belief. If you can't suspend your belief then you should stick to reading & watching non-fiction. On that note, let me get on with this review. Several things I liked about this book. Eva is a normal woman who finds herself in extraordinary circumstances. Somehow she I thought this book was beautifully written. I know others have criticized the book, saying that it's not believable. To this I say, reading any fiction book or watching any movie that isn't a documentary requires suspension of belief. If you can't suspend your belief then you should stick to reading & watching non-fiction. On that note, let me get on with this review. Several things I liked about this book. Eva is a normal woman who finds herself in extraordinary circumstances. Somehow she finds herself traveling to the past when she's at Trelowarth. She meets several people while in the past but it's Daniel Butler who catches her eye. The beginning of the book practically made me cry. The way Kearsley wrote about the loss of Katrina (Eva's sister) was very touching. The descriptions of the landscape of Cornwall were also lovely. Daniel's character isn't drawn in too much detail. But what we do know about him is that he's a steady, intelligent man. I actually liked that Eva's physical looks weren't minutely described. For me the book was more about Eva's inner journey. So the way she looked wasn't so important. Fergal was a hoot. And Creed was a creep. There are some poignant ideas about death, love & time in this book that I thought were sufficiently deep to keep my interest. The pacing between the different times was a little uneven though. When Eva first travels back in time it's as if things got interesting right away. But in her own time things were a bit more hum drum. Which is probably another reason why Eva began to associate more with the past than her present time. In any case, I do think this book was well written. I will definitely take a look at Kearsley's other books in the future to see if I like them as much. ...more 4 stars This is the second Susanna Kearsley book I\u2019ve read and she\u2019s quickly becoming a favorite of mine. Her writing style is simply beautiful and has a definite talent for writing fascinating stories. I\u2019m not usually a fan of wordy books but she does such an amazing job of describing the simplest of things you can\u2019t help but love it. One of my favorites: \u201cAnd at the window of the room the cold November rains slid down the glass and cast their shifting shadows in a room that could no longer hold t 4 stars This is the second Susanna Kearsley book I\u2019ve read and she\u2019s quickly becoming a favorite of mine. Her writing style is simply beautiful and has a definite talent for writing fascinating stories. I\u2019m not usually a fan of wordy books but she does such an amazing job of describing the simplest of things you can\u2019t help but love it. One of my favorites: \u201cAnd at the window of the room the cold November rains slid down the glass and cast their shifting shadows in a room that could no longer hold the light.\u201d Rose Garden tells the story of Eva and her struggles to cope with the death of her sister Katrina. Katrina had requested to be cremated and have her ashes scattered; Eva decides it would be most fitting for her to scatter them where the two of them once belonged: Cornwall, England. She travels there and stays with her two childhood friends Mark and Susan. During her first night there, she wakes to the sound of two men having a conversation only to find there weren\u2019t any men in the house. She then begins to see things that others cannot and is unable to explain it. When she finds herself thrown back in time, she meets Daniel Butler, a man who was a part of the Jacobite Uprising. Knowing what she does about the outcome of said event, she finds it difficult to not disclose information to him that could essentially change the future. The more time spent with Daniel, the closer she becomes to him, as she finds herself bonding with him as two people who have both lost loved ones. Eva\u2019s only concern is for her inability to control when she goes back in time and how the two of them can ever have a life together based on this instability. Lovely novel. I\u2019ll definitely be picking up more of her books in the future. ...more Let the new faces play what tricks they will In the old rooms; night can outbalance day, Our shadows rove the garden gravel still, The living seem more shadowy than they. William Butler Yeats, The New Faces Page 41: \u2018Ever try to hold a butterfly? It can\u2019t be done. You damage them,\u2019 he said. \u2018As gentle as you try to be, you take the powder from their wings and they won\u2019t ever fly the same. It\u2019s kinder just to let them go.\u2019 In order to avoid repeating what has been said before by other reviewers, I woul Let the new faces play what tricks they will In the old rooms; night can outbalance day, Our shadows rove the garden gravel still, The living seem more shadowy than they. William Butler Yeats, The New Faces Page 41: \u2018Ever try to hold a butterfly? It can\u2019t be done. You damage them,\u2019 he said. \u2018As gentle as you try to be, you take the powder from their wings and they won\u2019t ever fly the same. It\u2019s kinder just to let them go.\u2019 In order to avoid repeating what has been said before by other reviewers, I would add the historical background that provides the basis for this story. In 1715, Trelowarth was the home of the Jacobites which plans were to defeat King George I and put in his place the catholic claimant of this throne, James Stuart. The Jacobite rising of 1715 is often referred to as The Fifteen . There is an interesting book on this subject written by Daniel Szechi . And don't forget to mention also another book with the same historical background written by Anya Seton, namely Devil Water . ...more I found this book disappointing especially after reading The Winter Sea. Even though I liked some of the characters, Claire especially, and even though S. K's has some beautifully written lyrical passages, I never really became fully engaged in the story. I thought the time travel aspect was not at all believable. There has to be some plausibility in this type of story in order to suspend belief, and it never happened for me. Also it became really confusing at the end, there were too many people I found this book disappointing especially after reading The Winter Sea. Even though I liked some of the characters, Claire especially, and even though S. K's has some beautifully written lyrical passages, I never really became fully engaged in the story. I thought the time travel aspect was not at all believable. There has to be some plausibility in this type of story in order to suspend belief, and it never happened for me. Also it became really confusing at the end, there were too many people who time traveled with too many time paradoxes. The ending was not very emotionally satisfying and too abrupt, again probably because I was not sufficiently engaged enough to care what happened to Eve. The best thing about it were the descriptions of Cornwall. ...more \u201cI\u2019d never seen him smile like that. I knew that for my whole life I\u2019d remember it, as I\u2019d remember everything about this moment---the angle of the sunlight spilling through the bedroom window and the even warmer light in Daniel\u2019s eyes. And how his touch felt, gentle on my face. \u201c Whatever time we have ,\u201d he said, \u201c it will be time enough .\u201d 3.5 stars I think the one thing that kept me from DNF-ing The Rose Garden is that my mind kept going back to an interview Susanna Kearsley gave where she basicall \u201cI\u2019d never seen him smile like that. I knew that for my whole life I\u2019d remember it, as I\u2019d remember everything about this moment---the angle of the sunlight spilling through the bedroom window and the even warmer light in Daniel\u2019s eyes. And how his touch felt, gentle on my face. \u201c Whatever time we have ,\u201d he said, \u201c it will be time enough .\u201d 3.5 stars I think the one thing that kept me from DNF-ing The Rose Garden is that my mind kept going back to an interview Susanna Kearsley gave where she basically said that her books can take time to get into but once they take hold of you, it\u2019s impossible to put them down. Now I know, and she knew as well, that that\u2019s not always the case because yes, this book had a very slow start and would definitely not be everyone\u2019s cup of tea. In fact it was so slow going at first that I walked away after about the sixth chapter. Later on though, I picked it up again right where I had left off what happened next could only be described as a magical reading experience. Okay first I\u2019ll say that the story is told 100% from the perspective of the heroine, Eva. This was both good and bad. Bad because much like the book itself, I couldn\u2019t really connect with her at first. Good because as I went on this very strange and wonderful journey with her, she began to feel more like a friend. I can\u2019t say I identified with her or everything she had been through, but I really did come to like her as a person. Her little quirks were particularly endearing such as her face giving away every single one of her emotions and even googling \u2018time travel\u2019 and questioning whether she was losing her mind. Relatable or not, at the very least Eva as a character was tangible which is always a plus for me. Daniel too was a struggle to feel out at first as well. But I think a lot of that was because I was seeing him through Eva\u2019s love glazed eyes. And I\u2019ll admit, I really couldn\u2019t blame her for falling so quickly. Daniel was a strangely beautiful character. He read people, Eva especially, quite easily and possessed a logical way of thinking; I love those types of heroes. Which would explain why he didn\u2019t freak the fuck out when this woman dressed in bizarre clothing appeared one night in his bedroom. His easy acceptance of Eva\u2019s time traveling story may have rubbed some the wrong way but given the further glimpses of Daniel\u2019s character we\u2019re given as the story went on, it made sense to me and honestly I really liked that he believed Eva unconditionally. This moment marked the beginning of their budding love in my opinion, and also my love of the book as well. The romance was...okay. Not bad, just...okay. It definitely could have been stronger. I liked both characters so that obviously helped, but I do wish their falling had had a greater emotional impact on me. I believe the overall lukewarmness of the romance had less to do with a lack of chemistry (because Eva and Daniel definitely had that) and more to do with the fact that the love story wasn\u2019t wholly central to the plot. Still, Eva and Daniel had a lot of feels inducing moments. Their first kiss for example was a showstopper that left me breathless. (view spoiler) [And when Eva disappeared right after she and Daniel were married, it nearly broke my heart and definitely had me shedding more than a few tears because I felt every ounce of pain their separation caused to them both and IT HURT (hide spoiler) ] . Just the idea of two people loving each other so much that they literally defy time to be together is enough to leave you awestruck, at least that was the case for me. One of the main themes of the book deals with grief and loss, and how they can affect people in different ways. At the start, Eva was unanchored. Lost adrift in a sea of sadness over the death of her beloved sister. Eva\u2019s whole purpose of returning to Cornwall, the sight of many happy summers gone, was to spread her sister\u2019s ashes in a place where she felt most at home. Still, even after saying her final goodbye, Eva felt out of step with the rest of the world and she didn\u2019t understand why. Then she slowly began to discover who she was, what she needed and, ultimately, where she belonged after traveling back in time. As she alternated between the two eras, so alike in some ways and vastly different in others, she eventually came to realize that the modern day no longer felt like home. Eva slowly realizing that perhaps the reason why she had become disconnected from the present was because she actually belonged in the past was gradual, but poignant. This did read as a little too convenient and unrealistic especially with the revelations that came at the end but hey, it\u2019s a fantasy that\u2019s more or less grounded in reality and I\u2019ve always liked those contrasting themes. I have to say that Kearsley\u2019s writing style really captivated me the more of it that I read. She had a way of taking the most minute, mundane details, which I ordinarily would have found super boring, and making them significant and over time it felt like I was watching a movie, rather than just reading a book. The smallest of moments held great power that evoked an emotional response in me I was not expecting. I\u2019m not sure how she did this, but she did. Also the way in which she brought the Cornish setting to life, in effect turning it into a character of itself, was masterfully well done. While the premise was wonky, the pacing slow and the romance a tad on the insta-spectrum, I really enjoyed this book. It is however a hard book to recommend I think. If you like VERY slow burners and/or fusion Korean dramas, I think you\u2019d like this. OH! And I can\u2019t end this review without a proper shoutout to Fergal who was hands down the single best character of the book. ...more Buddy read with Jeannette and Hannah Eva Ward has returned to Trelowarth House to scatter her older sister Katrina\u2019s ashes. Trelowarth being the family\u2019s summer home in Cornwall back when they were children. Eva is alone now, both parents killed in an accident, only sister Katrina recently passed away, and no long term or serious relationships for Eva. Kind of a lost soul, not sure what she will do next. She is truly without roots. Eva fits right back in with her friends at Trelowarth, like she h Buddy read with Jeannette and Hannah Eva Ward has returned to Trelowarth House to scatter her older sister Katrina\u2019s ashes. Trelowarth being the family\u2019s summer home in Cornwall back when they were children. Eva is alone now, both parents killed in an accident, only sister Katrina recently passed away, and no long term or serious relationships for Eva. Kind of a lost soul, not sure what she will do next. She is truly without roots. Eva fits right back in with her friends at Trelowarth, like she had never been away all these years. Then strange things start to happen... I love the romance, history and descriptive writing of this story by Susanna Kearsley. The historical romance is always a winner. SK can set up a scene like few authors can. Her descriptions of Cornwall, the coast, Trelowarth House, and the cottage are well done. I can \u201csee\u201d the sun glittering on the water and the fishing boats bobbing. I also like the way SK brings in other books, mentioning the reclusive Mr. Badger from The Wind and the Willows and Omar Khayyam's Moving Finger I do have three little nitpicks, which really didn\u2019t detract from the story, hence the five stars. First, the bit where Stephen Hawking was talked about was unnecessary, imho. Second, the two main guys from 1715 were a bit too accepting of a woman from the future. Although one was intrigued by her blue jeans with a zipper! And third, I would have liked a little more, the story just ended too abruptly. (view spoiler) [I would have liked to hear how Fergal got out of the situation he was left in. I really liked Fergal, the \u201cbig brother.\u201d I also would have liked to see a little more with Daniel and Eva at the end. (hide spoiler) ] But who am I to second guess an author who can tell a great story. She made me laugh, she made me cry, and I fell in love with these characters. I actually enjoy the slower pace of Susanna Kearsley\u2019s writing. It gives me time to get to know everyone as the story builds layer upon layer. ...more Guh, I loved this book. I've pretty much prepared that I will be flailing whenever I finish a Susanna Kearsley novel in the future. And the sad thing is, I've to wait awhile to flail again, because I've pretty much finished all of her books. Blah. The Rose Garden was a different type of time-slip novel than the ones I've read previously. Eva travels to Cornwall to spread her sister's ashes where they spent their summer as kids. Staying with old friends, in the house that her sister and her used Guh, I loved this book. I've pretty much prepared that I will be flailing whenever I finish a Susanna Kearsley novel in the future. And the sad thing is, I've to wait awhile to flail again, because I've pretty much finished all of her books. Blah. The Rose Garden was a different type of time-slip novel than the ones I've read previously. Eva travels to Cornwall to spread her sister's ashes where they spent their summer as kids. Staying with old friends, in the house that her sister and her used to stay in every summer, Eva starts hearing voices and seeing things. Eva thinks she's losing it, even when she finds herself in a different time \u2013 300 years in the past. Soon, she realizes she's completely sane and has found a way to travel back and forth through time, only she can't control it. The difference is: when Eva goes back to 1715, she's still herself, still dressed in her modern clothing. She'll just be walking along a road or hallway and POOF she's back in time. There is no sign that she's gone back, only when she notices that things are different does she realized what happened. When she comes back to the present day, no one has missed her, because no time has gone by for them. However, when she goes back, days have gone by for those folks. Eva doesn't understand it, but goes with the flow, until all she desires is to stay in the past with Daniel Butler, a Jacobite who lived in Cornwall in 1715. This book had some serious twists, which I'm coming to expect from Susanna Kearsley. I did not see anything coming. I had a few guesses a head of time time, but none turned out to be right. I was torn between taking my time and savoring the story or just devouring it. I chose the latter. I loved it; I never wanted it to end, but I wanted to know what happened. Completely engrossing, gorgeous, strong story this was and I just loved it. ...more This is the third I've read of Susanna Kearsley's books in quick succession. I was a bit worried that I'd find it followed the same pattern as the other two, but she actually varied it quite a bit and most of the action took place in the past, whereas Sophia's Choice/The Winter Sea and Marianna were more evenly split so it didn't feel at all formulaic. Once again, what I loved about the book was the way she handled the time travel, the parallels she drew between the past and the present, and the This is the third I've read of Susanna Kearsley's books in quick succession. I was a bit worried that I'd find it followed the same pattern as the other two, but she actually varied it quite a bit and most of the action took place in the past, whereas Sophia's Choice/The Winter Sea and Marianna were more evenly split so it didn't feel at all formulaic. Once again, what I loved about the book was the way she handled the time travel, the parallels she drew between the past and the present, and the way she made it seem natural, the completion of a cycle rather than something from science fiction. And I loved the way she handled the history, although in this case I felt there could have been more - we didn't really get much of the actual Jacobite uprising (or lack of) and this was one of the (minor) things that disappointed me. The book opens with the death of the heroine Eva's sister. I was crying within two pages, and the haunting, poignant emotions of how Eva dealsi with the loss of Katrina is a thread running through the book that really adds to the emotional tension. Daniel, the hero from 1715, has also lost someone close (his wife) and has a huge emotional gap that Eva could fill, but we never really got to know enough of him, we never got to really understand him as much as I would have liked, and in fact got more insights about him from one of the key secondary characters, Fergal. As a result he was a slightly remote hero, and I wasn't as engaged as I could have been with his fate. On saying that, I couldn't put this book down. Susanna Kearsley tells a compelling story in an enthralling way, and I'm already wondering which of her back catalogue I'm going to read next. ...more Once again, Susanna Kearsley has secured her place in my top favorite authors. Although a little slow going at first, Kearsley paints a grand landscape of a quaint seaside village in Cornwall, all down to rock, foamy seas, and lush hillsides. Very reminescent of DuMaurier's style in the opening of 'Rebecca'. The details arent what pulled me into the story but it helped me understand why the characters loved it so. I would say that the author has a good deal of her heart there as well. The notion Once again, Susanna Kearsley has secured her place in my top favorite authors. Although a little slow going at first, Kearsley paints a grand landscape of a quaint seaside village in Cornwall, all down to rock, foamy seas, and lush hillsides. Very reminescent of DuMaurier's style in the opening of 'Rebecca'. The details arent what pulled me into the story but it helped me understand why the characters loved it so. I would say that the author has a good deal of her heart there as well. The notion of time travel is an exciting one. Surround this with loss, love, suspense, history, family, a smuggler's ship, betrayal, tomfoolery, mystery, and a surprise twist in the end...well, you cannot go wrong. The sweet and quiet of our two main characters had me swooning. These two, deep feeling, yet also amiable and giving nothing away on the surface. The author's writing afforded the reader a slow simmer that one prayed would happily boil over. Kearsley does not disappoint. Without spoiling it for you, I really liked the end. Really, really. The reader is left, not with a neatly wrapped package and tidy bow, but more of a happy, bottomless grab bag of possibilities. In other words, a sequel could easily be written (Hello, Ms. Kearsley!)...and one I would no doubt purchase in a hurry. ...more<---C>Susanna Kearsley</---C>", "Title": "The Rose Garden"},
