{"Comments": "Sometimes when I recommend a book that I've enjoyed, I worry about talking it up too much,<---M> getting people's expectations impossibly high</---M>, but that's not something I worry about with <---A>Brady Udall</---A>y's <+++>The Lonely Polygamist</+++>. This book really knocked my socks off--it was a book I couldn't put down while I was reading it, and can't stop thinking about now that I've finished it. The novel is about a large polygamist family (redundant?) circa 1978 that is spiraling out of control. The narrative mainly foc Sometimes when I recommend a book that I've enjoyed, I worry about talking it up too much, getting people's expectations impossibly high, but that's not something I worry about with Brady Udally's <+++>The Lonely Polygamist</+++>. This book really knocked my socks off--it was a book I couldn't put down while I was reading it, and can't stop thinking about now that I've finished it. The novel is about a large polygamist family (redundant?) circa 1978 that is spiraling out of control. The narrative mainly focuses on three characters--Golden Richards, the patriarch of the family who is secretly working on the construction of a brothel in Nevada, but telling his family it's an old folk's home; Trisha, the fourth and newest wife, who has recently lost a child; and Rusty, the one kid in the family who can never do anything right, who has tragically smelly feet and a secret penchant for trashy romance novels. When I heard that Brady Udall was working on a novel about polygamists, I was skeptical. I enjoyed his first book, The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint, but thought that a novel about polygamists would either be really creepy or really condescending.<---F> This book is neither</---F>. The characters are sympathetic and endearing, in spite of their many flaws, and the polygamy thing ends up being a really smart, backdoor way to write about Mormon experience--families, faith, and belonging to a socially weird religion all taken to their most extreme manifestation. It also has the gravitas of a Great American Novel--at six hundred pages, it covers a lot of ground, from nuclear testing to disco fever. In the way it was structured, the book reminded me a bit of Catch-22. The first half of the novel is very, very funny. I laughed out loud in parts. The second half of the novel, though, becomes more and more serious as it progresses, without becoming heavy-handed. The book ends up being heartbreaking in the best possible way, with just a hint of hope. I highly recommend this book. It was an immersive, captivating reading experience. This is a book on par with such 21st-century masterpieces as Michael Chabon's The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, Marilynne Robinson's Gilead, and Cormac McCarthy's The Road. http://everydayireadthebooks.blogspot... ...more As I sit down to write this review, I find myself thinking there is no way that I can possibly describe this book: the banalities I usually employ...couldn't put it down...feel so lame because this book was so good, but I'll try. I started out convinced that I would not like any of the characters -- the polygamist husband in particular, but also, the wives. However, the author's painstaking portrayal of the complex emotions that animate each of the spouse's reasons for participating in this lifes As I sit down to write this review, I find myself thinking there is no way that I can possibly describe this book: the banalities I usually employ...couldn't put it down...feel so lame because this book was so good, but I'll try. I started out convinced that I would not like any of the characters -- the polygamist husband in particular, but also, the wives. However, the author's painstaking portrayal of the complex emotions that animate each of the spouse's reasons for participating in this lifestyle made it impossible to dismiss any of them, although I ultimately ended up finding the husband (Golden) somewhat pathetic. In fact, I didn't like Golden for most of the book, then the story of his daughter Glory's death and funeral is revealed, and it just broke my heart for him. Similarly, the author makes you love Rusty (one of the young boys) with all your heart, even though he's kind of gross and maddening the way I imagine young boys can be at times. Finally, the chaos caused by and interactions among the 28 children (yes 28) is hilarious without being ridiculous; I would imagine anyone coming from a large family would recognize some of the descriptions as right on the money. What I came away with is that this author really cared about these characters -- which was particularly important I think because the fundamentalist Mormons could easily be reduced to caricatures. I read an article that explained how the author made it a point to visit with one of these communities for an extended period, and to me, it shows in the way he humanized his characters. There were also times throughout the book when I would wonder what is the point of including this storyline, and then boom, the author would do something incredible with it. One example is a lengthy section describing a night where Golden and two women who will ultimately be his wives live through a night of bomb detonations and radiation fallout: then the story of what happens to one of the girls, Nola, that night unfolds, giving a whole new dimension to this loud, wise-cracking, seemingly self-confident woman in a way that strikes a chord with the vulnerable part of every person. Another thing about this author that simply amazed me was how he artfully manages to make the reader feel profound sadness, and in the next instant, laugh out loud. In sum, for me, the range of emotions this book evoked was simply overwhelming. The author's observations about how love and loss are always intimately connected rang all too true, and the end of the book contains one of the most moving accounts of death that I have ever read. ...more I picked up this novel because it was on a list of 10 best fiction novels of 2010. I hope that is not the case, here, or fiction is in a sad state. The novel is okay; its not great. Udall works very hard to make Golden, his protagonist, a suffering hero with whom the reader should feel compassion. But, the guy is really a wimp. Yes, he takes responsiblity for his family of 4 wives and 25 children and, yes, he's grieving the loss of his disabled daughter who died on his watch but...a lot of these I picked up this novel because it was on a list of 10 best fiction novels of 2010. I hope that is not the case, here, or fiction is in a sad state. The novel is okay; its not great. Udall works very hard to make Golden, his protagonist, a suffering hero with whom the reader should feel compassion. But, the guy is really a wimp. Yes, he takes responsiblity for his family of 4 wives and 25 children and, yes, he's grieving the loss of his disabled daughter who died on his watch but...a lot of these situations find him; he is not really the driver of his life. He is a man to whom things happen to, not a person who makes things happen. Hence, his house is in disarray; his kids are messed up; his business is failing. With 28 children and 4 women, this novel had a lot of potential. Instead, Udall focuses on the one male and one of his emotionally suffering sons. The women are flat, which is disappointing. And, in a novel where there is very little action/plot, you need to have strong chracter - characters with whom you want to know about and follow. I just don't think that Udall was successful in creating that type of character in his protagonist. ...more Slightly grudgingly, just 'coz I hate bandwagons - literary and otherwise - I'll say that this book deserved all the hype it received. Here are five things it did well that so many books crash and burn trying to do: No. 5: It surprised me - overall (I don't know what I was expecting of a book about polygamous marriage, but I'm pretty sure it wasn't this) and in the individual details. There are a couple of twists in characters and plots that I really didn't see coming. No. 4: It built character th Slightly grudgingly, just 'coz I hate bandwagons - literary and otherwise - I'll say that this book deserved all the hype it received. Here are five things it did well that so many books crash and burn trying to do: No. 5: It surprised me - overall (I don't know what I was expecting of a book about polygamous marriage, but I'm pretty sure it wasn't this) and in the individual details. There are a couple of twists in characters and plots that I really didn't see coming. No. 4: It built character through scene and dialogue in ways that felt natural and real (after my recent experience with Shriver's So Much For That , I needed this). Some reviewers have taken Mr. Udall to task for focusing on so few characters and leaving the remainder as caricatures, but I disagree. If you think about the secondary characters - June, Trish, Leo, even Glory, while 'sketchy' they were remarkably varied, and I'd say pretty well fleshed out beyond being mere plot devices (they had their own stories to tell, right? While also being critical to the Golden/Rusty plotline). I'll give you Huila as perhaps the least successful character in that regard. But overall, I thought the secondary characters and plot(s) successful in their own right while also adding dimension to and resonating with the main story beautifully. No. 3: It presented a unique point of view, which -- if Udall were less deft or compassionate; if it was more the central focus instead of the milieu -- could have been reality TV voyeurism that emphasized their otherness instead of docudrama empathy-building. Because of the essential humanity of each individual character, \"they\" (as in, fundamentalist Mormons engaged in plural marriage) were not a monolithic block of \"others\" (I take liberties to assume most of the 12 of you reading this are not involved in plural marriages - have I got that right?). Rather, they were individual characters whom we not only felt for , but felt like. They were us - or any other large family with its politics, petty squabbles, constantly shifting alliances and power dynamics. And she (or he) was me, in her or his insecurities, feelings of being inadequate or unloved or unsure or angry or sad or scared or lonely. In this sense, the docudrama isn't an apt metaphor. The plural marriage and fundamentalism were really just setting, context for the story of the family and the individuals in it. No. 2: It was a great story . In my Goldilocks evaluation, it had just enough depth and complexity to satisfy, not too much to overwhelm or frustrate. It had these strange details that seemed like asides (an ostrich named Raymond; picnics disrupted by atom bomb tests; a Mescal-swilling Mexican who provides guidance and support at just the right moment), and which could have been too much, too incidental, too over-the-top but instead added texture to the fabric of the story and were in some ways essential elements without which the whole thing could have fallen apart. It hit the sweet spot, at least for me, and in that regard I'd probably suggest a comparison with Chabon's The Yiddish Policemen's Union or The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier Clay or Eugenides' Middlesex . If you liked them, you'll probably like this. It carried me along with its twists, turns, segues, digressions, highs and lows. No. 1: And speaking of highs and lows: lots of reviewers have commented on this, and I have to say it's the dominant literary feature that gives this book its charm and its power. It's tragicomic in the most complete and classic sense. It is crazy funny, absurd, slapstick, rollicking good fun, while simultaneously - in the same paragraph or within one page - also poignant, devastating, heartbreaking and achingly sad. And the sadness is founded on a kind of \"alone in a crowd\" isolation that is just always so ... so ... I don't know what the word is. Familiar? Essential? Human? Interestingly, it was not just Golden Richards, the titular lonely polygamist, who was lonely - it was all of them. All of them, in their own ways, which is the loneliest thing of all, isn't it? ...more I\u2019m always eager to read a book with local ties. As the title of BYU graduate Brady Udall\u2019s most recent novel, The Lonely Polygamist, suggests, his critically acclaimed work most definitely has themes central to Utah history and culture. I picked up this book wondering how successful Udall would be in making his central character, Golden Richards, a husband to four and father to twenty eight, who still manages time to develop an extra marital relationship, at all likeable. Udall succeeds admirab I\u2019m always eager to read a book with local ties. As the title of BYU graduate Brady Udall\u2019s most recent novel, The Lonely Polygamist, suggests, his critically acclaimed work most definitely has themes central to Utah history and culture. I picked up this book wondering how successful Udall would be in making his central character, Golden Richards, a husband to four and father to twenty eight, who still manages time to develop an extra marital relationship, at all likeable. Udall succeeds admirably in creating Golden and his other characters. I came to like Golden, and pity him too, even while finding him immensely frustrating at times. The story is told from three viewpoints, those of Golden, his fourth wife Trish, and one of his sons, eleven-year old Rusty. Trish is well-drawn and relatable, but it is Rusty who steals the show (and stole my heart). I challenge any reader to get through this book without tears and without wishing you could give Rusty a much-needed hug. Bottom line: Udall succeeds in making the sprawling Richards family and their many struggles (some of them tragic) seem familiar, even in their oddity. This book could also be titled The Accidental Polygamist. Golden doesn't have your typical Mormon Fundamentalist background (he's originally from the south and has no Mormon pioneer heritage) and he just kinds of ends up a polygamist (read the book to find out how). We\u2019ve all heard the sordid stories about polygamous groups (for example Warren Jeffs and crew), and even those of us (like me) with polygamy in our family history can find it all quite disturbing and foreign. While Udall\u2019s story is full of trauma and tragedy, Golden and his clan don\u2019t seem much akin to what we\u2019ve seen in the news (even though Udall spent time among polygamous families while researching this book). I think this makes the story feel much more universal. One final note, again for sensitive readers: There is a fair amount of obscene language throughout, although I personally would call this more of a PG-13 than an R-rated book. ...more I need to stop forcing myself to continue reading a book even though I'm certain I don't like it. By the time I stop reading the books - unfinished, of course - I'm shocked by the amount of time I wasted reading something I don't enjoy. I found The Lonely Polygamist intensely boring. I suppose I liked some of the characters. I felt for Trish and Rusty, and Golden wasn't an entirely unenjoyable person to read about, but they were all so dull! If any of these people were real, I don't think I could I need to stop forcing myself to continue reading a book even though I'm certain I don't like it. By the time I stop reading the books - unfinished, of course - I'm shocked by the amount of time I wasted reading something I don't enjoy. I found The Lonely Polygamist intensely boring. I suppose I liked some of the characters. I felt for Trish and Rusty, and Golden wasn't an entirely unenjoyable person to read about, but they were all so dull! If any of these people were real, I don't think I could hold half of an interesting conversation with them. I found myself trudging along, despite the intensely easy writing, and wanted to be doing something other than reading, which I very rarely feel. So I skipped to the end, something I can honestly say I have never done before, discovered that everything is hunky-dory in the end, which I expected, and put it in my i-don't-needto-hang-on-to-this-book pile. Now it's time to cozy up with Cracking the New GRE. That one's sure to be a page-turner. ...more This book's strong points: really stellar writing, vividly believable but out-there characters, a set of perspectives that pops the story into three dimensions, nuclear blasts, an evil ostrich, a satisfying ending that isn't really a happy ending, great lists, shockingly accurate fundie-plyg portraits--think bolo ties--, character archs for all, a carrot-on-a-stick narrative structure that keeps us drooling along behind, trying to figure out where we've been and where we're going, some serious g This book's strong points: really stellar writing, vividly believable but out-there characters, a set of perspectives that pops the story into three dimensions, nuclear blasts, an evil ostrich, a satisfying ending that isn't really a happy ending, great lists, shockingly accurate fundie-plyg portraits--think bolo ties--, character archs for all, a carrot-on-a-stick narrative structure that keeps us drooling along behind, trying to figure out where we've been and where we're going, some serious goofiness, some weird shiz, romance novels, a cathouse, jolly mexicans, evil pimps, hormonal pre-teens, and bits that made me cry. As for the premise: take what you think about a plyg family. Now invert it. Voila! Domineering fundie patriarch? No! He's a bumbling pawn! Whimpering naive abused wives looking for escape? Nu-uh. Try worldy women seeking escape from the sour wickedness of gentile life. And dead-eyed drone children? Nope again. Willful, lonely, hungry little people, pissed at their 25th-hand clothes and lack of attention, trying to be good, sort of, sometimes. The characters are pushed to the extreme edge of personality-- bordering on cartoonish. The patriarch Golden is such a dim desperate doofus and the wives are so 1. rigid 2. jolly 3. crazy 4. sad. BUT it totally serves the story, serves the setting. This family, 28 living kids and four wives, is just any ole family writ large. That's the real gift of this story and this family-- it's us. No, we might not be fundamentalists sharing a husband with sister-wives. But we do grieve, shut down, try to escape, long to be included, stray from the straight and narrow, make cataclysmic mistakes, and fiercely love our kids. What a great author to plop us down in the craziness, and then make it human for us. Fantastic! Three cheers! I can't wait to read his next stuff. ...more \"How does a shy, lonely boy from the backwaters of Louisiana become an apostle of God, the husband to four wives, the father to twenty-eight children? Easier than you think.\" Golden Richards is a man who never quite takes charge of his life, and this is the result. And THEN he has an affair. My goodness, what next? This is a captivating novel, funny, touching, and full of believable, all-to-human people. Especially funny and moving is Rusty, the son of wife three (Rose-of-Sharon, who secretly read \"How does a shy, lonely boy from the backwaters of Louisiana become an apostle of God, the husband to four wives, the father to twenty-eight children? Easier than you think.\" Golden Richards is a man who never quite takes charge of his life, and this is the result. And THEN he has an affair. My goodness, what next? This is a captivating novel, funny, touching, and full of believable, all-to-human people. Especially funny and moving is Rusty, the son of wife three (Rose-of-Sharon, who secretly reads romance novels and ends up in a mental hospital with a breakdown from all the chaos)a boy who tries to define himself in a humorous and ultimately tragic way. (It is a credit to author Udall that he embues so many of the twenty-eight children with individual personalities). After finishing \"The Lonely Polygamist\" I read Brady Udall's earlier \"Miracle Life of Edgar Mint\". Love this writer. Brady, keep writing. ...more I finish \"train-wreck\" novels like this and wonder why I do this to myself. Unpleasant life events happening to unsympathetic people, utterly foreseeable and just as utterly impossible to avert. I come away feeling slightly soiled, not exactly wanting those hours of my life back so much as reminded that I really am not part of mainstream literature's target audience. The novel is well-written, and I understand why it has gotten the reviews it has - deservedly so. But I didn't care for it, and am I finish \"train-wreck\" novels like this and wonder why I do this to myself. Unpleasant life events happening to unsympathetic people, utterly foreseeable and just as utterly impossible to avert. I come away feeling slightly soiled, not exactly wanting those hours of my life back so much as reminded that I really am not part of mainstream literature's target audience. The novel is well-written, and I understand why it has gotten the reviews it has - deservedly so. But I didn't care for it, and am sad it is taking more than Margaret Atwood 's excellent The Year of the Flood to take the mild slimy feeling away from my mind. ...more Finally! I've had this for several years and couldn't make it fit a challenge, so I was delighted to get to it. I didn't choose this because of \"polygamist\" in the title, but because I read Udall's first novel The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint . I thoroughly enjoyed it and had picked it up because it was included in a list of books with great opening lines. Apparently Udall has a talent for great first lines. To put it as simply as possible: This is the story of a polygamist who has an affair. I wasn Finally! I've had this for several years and couldn't make it fit a challenge, so I was delighted to get to it. I didn't choose this because of \"polygamist\" in the title, but because I read Udall's first novel The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint . I thoroughly enjoyed it and had picked it up because it was included in a list of books with great opening lines. Apparently Udall has a talent for great first lines. To put it as simply as possible: This is the story of a polygamist who has an affair. I wasn't very far into it when I realized that Udall writes of his Mormon heritage in much the same way that Louise Erdrich writes of her Native American heritage. No one is perfect and unblemished. At about the same time, I made a comparison of Udall's humor with that of Richard Russo. His characters are trying to get through life the best they can. We know people like them. They make mistakes - usually with the best of intentions. Before we read that delightful first sentence, we are provided with a family group sheet. Golden Richards is the father with 4 wives and 28 children. Fortunately, we don't have to remember all of them. This is Golden's story and we know him thoroughly. We also know Rusty, his 11-year old son, intimately, as we do Trish, wife #4. The other wives are important with good characterizations. The other children, with the exception of Glory, make cameo appearances. Thinking of Glory, the child with whom Golden had a very special relationship, will still bring tears to my eyes. Udall isn't all humor. Some lives are harder than others. Udall has a collection of short stories I haven't read, but it's been 5 years now since he published a novel. If a release were announced today, I'd pre-order it. 5 stars for this one. ...more Golden Richards has four wives, twenty-eight children, three homes and a failing construction business. He takes a job in Nevada, building a brothel and telling his wives that he is constructing a senior citizen center. Golden, who had a very lonely and isolated childhood, is now separated from his family and sinking into confusion. He develops an attraction for a woman that he sees near the construction site and this complicates an already complicated life even further. Meanwhile, his family is Golden Richards has four wives, twenty-eight children, three homes and a failing construction business. He takes a job in Nevada, building a brothel and telling his wives that he is constructing a senior citizen center. Golden, who had a very lonely and isolated childhood, is now separated from his family and sinking into confusion. He develops an attraction for a woman that he sees near the construction site and this complicates an already complicated life even further. Meanwhile, his family is gradually disintegrating, and Golden seems powerless to do anything about it. One of the children, eleven-year-old Rusty, is especially lonely as well, as is Golden's fourth wife Trish, who is contemplating abandoning her husband and the polygamist lifestyle. These are brilliantly drawn characters in an excellent book. By turns it is heartbreaking and hilariously funny. In particular, the child, Rusty, is a character that will stay with readers for a long time to come. Every time he appears you want to reach into the book and adopt him, but at the same time, his hilarious antics and his exceptional voice leave you practically rolling on the floor with laughter. This is really an outstanding book that leaves you rooting for all these characters, and for this admittedly dysfunctional family as they struggle against seemingly impossible odds to survive both as individuals and as members of a loving family that only wants to live happily ever after. ...more This was the rare occasion when I basically skimmed the last 150 pages just to find out a few key plot points, rather than actually reading, because I was excruciatingly BORED while reading this book. The hero, despite having 4 wives, is completely uninteresting -- a hulking cipher as blank as his improbably shut-in childhood without friends or education. If he had one wife, instead of 4, this tale of a middle-aged schlemiel who has no will, no agency, no real yearnings (other than to get with t This was the rare occasion when I basically skimmed the last 150 pages just to find out a few key plot points, rather than actually reading, because I was excruciatingly BORED while reading this book. The hero, despite having 4 wives, is completely uninteresting -- a hulking cipher as blank as his improbably shut-in childhood without friends or education. If he had one wife, instead of 4, this tale of a middle-aged schlemiel who has no will, no agency, no real yearnings (other than to get with the charmingly tongue-tied brown-skinned wife of his boss (a walking racist cliche)) would never have been published. Absent polygamy, no one would bother dragging through 600 pages of this book -- the male mid-life crisis of incompetence, loneliness and lust has been done to death by far better writers. It's the titillation of fundamentalist polygamy (how does it really work? is it sexy or sinister?) that makes people pick up this book -- but that gimmick is just that -- a gimmick. None of the wives become more than window dressing and 27 children is 26 more than Udall can even be bothered trying to depict. YAWN! ...more I've been interested in polygamy for a long time, way before popular Big Love hit the small screen. I read quite a few books on the subject, mostly non-fiction - Escape , Under the Banner of Heaven , Shattered Dreams: My Life as a Polygamist's Wife , etc. - and have a certain image of a polygamous man in my mind, specifically, he is a selfish, power-hungry sexist pig who takes advantage of his women and neglects his children. It seems Brady Udall 's goal was to break this stereotype in his book and I've been interested in polygamy for a long time, way before popular Big Love hit the small screen. I read quite a few books on the subject, mostly non-fiction - Escape , Under the Banner of Heaven , Shattered Dreams: My Life as a Polygamist's Wife , etc. - and have a certain image of a polygamous man in my mind, specifically, he is a selfish, power-hungry sexist pig who takes advantage of his women and neglects his children. It seems Brady Udall 's goal was to break this stereotype in his book and I guess he succeeds. Somewhat. Golden Richards is a 45-year old husband to 4 wives and father to 28 children. His life is in shambles - his construction business is on a verge of bankruptcy, his family is falling apart, he is consumed by grief, shame and secrets he has to keep. He is lonely even though he is surrounded by his huge family. Feeling completely lost, Golden finds himself involved in an affair and starts thinking about maybe abandoning his life-style, maybe starting fresh. A tragic event turns Golden's world upside down and forces him to finally make decisions about his life and the future of his family. Udall definitely succeeds in his portrayal of a polygamous family, all is there - power struggles among the wives, jealousy, neglected children, financial difficulties, constant demands for secrecy. And why wouldn't Udall succeed? The writer is a part of this world himself. Being raised a Mormon, he has a first-hand knowledge of polygamy. But what surprised me the most is that the author made me feel sorry for Golden - something I never thought would happen. I feel sorry for this man who became a polygamist mostly at the insistence of his first wife, who tries to be fair and is infinitely unhappy because he must spread his affection and love so thinly, ultimately not giving anyone enough and not being close to anyone. Why 3 stars then? For one, the book is in a dire need of editing. At some point I found myself skipping entire chapters which had too little bearing on the story. 100-150 pages could have been easily cut out. And secondly, the ending is completely unsatisfying, unrealistic and inconsistent with the real-life accounts I've read, all too tidy and pseudo-happy. Ultimately, very little changes in Golden and in his family life IMO. I suspect Udall was compelled to end the book this way because of his personal beliefs, but for most of us, people who do not believe in polygamy, this conclusion is too wishy-washy and hard to come to terms with. The Lonely Polygamist is not a bad book, a little heavy and boring in parts. People who want to read it because they are fans of Big Love will be disappointed - not much scandal, sex and pure entertainment in it. ...more Brady Udall has proved to me his ability to draw real and multi-dimensional characters who pulse with courage, fear, doubt, and all the flaws that make our heroes humans. While I'm not completely seduced by the entire package, Udall's strengths as an empathetic observer of the human condition outweigh the book's technical complaints. First off, I wasn't really excited to pick up another book about polygamy. Why is this topic so popular right now? Can I blame reality tv? Fortunately, this book do Brady Udall has proved to me his ability to draw real and multi-dimensional characters who pulse with courage, fear, doubt, and all the flaws that make our heroes humans. While I'm not completely seduced by the entire package, Udall's strengths as an empathetic observer of the human condition outweigh the book's technical complaints. First off, I wasn't really excited to pick up another book about polygamy. Why is this topic so popular right now? Can I blame reality tv? Fortunately, this book doesn't dwell on the weirdness of Mormon fundamentalism, which I really didn't have the stomach for. Polygamy is something taken for granted as the location of the story, and of all of it's characters, of course weird in their own ways, are weird because every family is weird, and not weird for particular religious beliefs that I, as a reader, might have been forced to cull through. Thank you for that. These are regular people, either born into their situations, or clinging to it as the better alternative than their past lives. The juxtaposition happens when the patriarchal polygamist is attracted to a woman completely outside the polygamist circle, and through his and her perspectives we have a nice little lesson on how we camouflage our desires for autonomy and absolution from regret by seeking same in another and calling it love. I think I was supposed to like Trish a lot more than I did. She was the most accessible character for the average reader, being newest to the family and having experienced a monogamous relationship in the past. But I was really disappointed in her final outcome, and felt Udall may have unintentionally justified some bad ideas. I say anymore and I'll spoil it. Other than great characters, the most descriptive word for this book is \"long.\" My god, 599 pages. Granted, a family of 30-some, and all their affiliated relationships, it takes a while to wrap it all up. And though I couldn't tell you exactly where, some editing is in order. But I did like this book, and in the last 200 pages I can even say I loved it. ...more Done, done. Finally done. Am still processing how I feel about this one, but my gut reaction is: it was okay. At times it was fascinating; the polygamist life seems so closed and taboo that you almost can\u2019t help but get drawn in by the idea of the story. But for me, sticking with Udall through all 600 pages was an arduous journey. Udall doesn\u2019t vilify polygamists; he also doesn\u2019t embrace them. And perhaps that is where I found much of the difficulty with The Lonely Polygamist ; there wasn\u2019t a str Done, done. Finally done. Am still processing how I feel about this one, but my gut reaction is: it was okay. At times it was fascinating; the polygamist life seems so closed and taboo that you almost can\u2019t help but get drawn in by the idea of the story. But for me, sticking with Udall through all 600 pages was an arduous journey. Udall doesn\u2019t vilify polygamists; he also doesn\u2019t embrace them. And perhaps that is where I found much of the difficulty with The Lonely Polygamist ; there wasn\u2019t a strong pull either way. I didn\u2019t much care about the people in two of the three main storylines. Golden Richards, \u201cthe lonely polygamist,\u201d is going through a mid-life crisis of sorts \u2026 only his involves four wives and a couple dozen children, not to mention a failing business that exists in the shadow of his larger-than-life (deceased) father. His fourth and youngest wife, Trish, struggles with loneliness and her position as the \u201cnewest\u201d wife---and the only wife to have just one child (obviously not a favored position in polygamist families). And as one of Golden\u2019s many children, Rusty is an 11 y/o boy who simply wants to be noticed over the cacophony of voices and needs that swirl around the burgeoning Richards family--and to be heard he acts out in bigger and bigger ways. It was Rusty\u2019s storyline that I followed with the most interest, perhaps because the life as a polygamist child is not something you choose; you\u2019re born into it and there you shall stay until you\u2019re old enough to make the choice to break away. Rusty\u2019s struggle for a place and a voice was heartbreaking at times, and that\u2019s when I liked the book the most: when it was able to break my heart a little \u2026 to make me feel something for the characters. Unfortunately the book wasn\u2019t able to do it often enough for me to feel much more than ambivalent about the whole thing. ...more It started off so well! I was really enjoying the writing style. Then I got busy and the book was due at the library and I forgot about it. Then I bought it at the airport. The cashier at Powells was giggling as rang it up, she thought it was so funny (the book, not me. Although I was wearing my yellow glasses). I get it, there are some odd characters and an ostrich and way too many children. I didn't like any of the characters. Golden seems mildly retarded and I am appalled that he had 28 childr It started off so well! I was really enjoying the writing style. Then I got busy and the book was due at the library and I forgot about it. Then I bought it at the airport. The cashier at Powells was giggling as rang it up, she thought it was so funny (the book, not me. Although I was wearing my yellow glasses). I get it, there are some odd characters and an ostrich and way too many children. I didn't like any of the characters. Golden seems mildly retarded and I am appalled that he had 28 children. Some people might describe it as side-slappingly funny drama. I thought it was sad and annoying. Do you like naked toddlers? I don't. Do you like dogs that pee on rugs? Again, not into it. Do you like moral and judgemental little girls? Well, yes. But they didn't give Faye much to do. There's a bit of violence, I guess. Some coyotes die. That made me sad. I was curious why people liked it. I am afraid of Utah and dislike people who over-populate. Also, the characters didn't give me reasons to root for them. I should probably try his other book and see if I like it more. ...more This book was a HUGE disappointment. It got rave reviews in Newsweek, which prompted me to buy it. It was way too long, it dragged and there was just nothing interesting about it. The main character, Golden, is a loser. No two ways about it. Worse, there's nothing sympathetic about him. There's a lot of dishonesty, unhappiness, dissatisfaction, abandonment, anxiety, adultery, mental health issues, jealousy, and just plain anger and negativity. The reviewer said this book was darkly humorous. I chuc This book was a HUGE disappointment. It got rave reviews in Newsweek, which prompted me to buy it. It was way too long, it dragged and there was just nothing interesting about it. The main character, Golden, is a loser. No two ways about it. Worse, there's nothing sympathetic about him. There's a lot of dishonesty, unhappiness, dissatisfaction, abandonment, anxiety, adultery, mental health issues, jealousy, and just plain anger and negativity. The reviewer said this book was darkly humorous. I chuckled maybe twice. Such a horrible disappointment this was. Ugh. And **SPOILER ALERT** a grown woman giving a 12-year old boy sponge baths in the hospital until he orgasms is just ucky. And she does it more than once. The kid is in a coma and he has more personality than any other character. Skip it unless you want something to help you sleep. ...more This book was undoubtedly an interesting portrait of a dysfunctional family, but the whole subject of polygamy was rather strange. The main character seemed to be more concerned with \"keeping the family together\" than he was about how his quadruple marriages affected the well-being of his children. Brady Udall's novel \"The Lonely Polygamist\" is one of those pieces of fiction where you stare at the jacket summary and think: \"Okay, Big Shot. You mean to tell me that you have written a story about a man, his four wives, 28 children and mistress? I dare you to pull off this circus stunt without burying me beneath a 2 ton clown car filled with the note cards I'll be forced to keep to differentiate these characters.\" Friends, he succeeds. First Udall weeds the crops, probably realizing that manag Brady Udall's novel \"The Lonely Polygamist\" is one of those pieces of fiction where you stare at the jacket summary and think: \"Okay, Big Shot. You mean to tell me that you have written a story about a man, his four wives, 28 children and mistress? I dare you to pull off this circus stunt without burying me beneath a 2 ton clown car filled with the note cards I'll be forced to keep to differentiate these characters.\" Friends, he succeeds. First Udall weeds the crops, probably realizing that managing the ticks and clacks, hair color and hobbies of 34 characters would be like separating pieces of pudding. He boils it down to the patriarch Golden, a quiet gentle giant who is feeling the weight of supporting this menagerie and their three homes with his failing construction business; Trish, the hot pants newbie to the wife fest, with a colorful past, and a creepily religious daughter from a previous marriage; Rusty, an 11-year-old misfit, a horn dog who curiously tests his sisters' underwear, and is referred to as the family terrorist; Beverly, the first wife on the block, who is a regimented wealth of graphs, maps and flow charts, and signs that remind family members to wife their feet, remove their shoes, not sprinkle when they tinkle, etc. The rest of the fold is in the periphery, with a few recurring names and groupings: Pet, Fig Newton, The Three Stooges, The Twins. Golden has taken a long distance assignment to build a brothel for a sort of mafia-esque character in Nevada. (He tells his family and the other members of the church council that he is building a church). He spends most of his work week living out of an airstream camper near the work site, sort of celebrating the reprieve from the chaos of home. One day he spots a woman bathing in a small body of water, and he falls in love with her, returning often to wait for her and/or spy on her. Shortly after his boss man, the bipolar and decently armed Ted Leo shows him an area filled with abandoned hubs in the middle of the desert, an abandoned something that no one else seems to know about, Golden realizes that he is lusting over Ted Leo's wife Huila. Uh oh. Back at home, Rusty's social awkwardness keeps landing him in solitary lock up. And sister wife Trish is reading Cosmo for sex tips involving minty gum. Beverly has a nagging cough, another wife hopeful is waiting in the wings. Rusty has befriended an outsider with a secret stash of gun powder, and has big plans to rearrange the family dynamics -- perhaps even bone his sexy aunt Trish. The main characters pasts are also revealed in brief satellites dropped into the main plot.Golden's lonely childhood -- which eventually sent him looking for his lost father and joining into the polygamist fray. Trish, who was part of a plyg family growing up, until her father died and the wives scattered. There is also a story involving the death of Glory, who was the physically handicap daughter of Golden and Beverly. And another death, baby Jack, who was born of Golden and Trish baby batter. This is a really nice story, something that could have loomed large and imposing, but it seems to have been written carefully but in a way that looks easy. There is an on-running sub sub sub plot involving the old gum-caught-in-pubic hair trick that is a little tiring, and a few Huhs? in terms of character continuity. But for the most part, \"The Lonely Polygamist\" is a satisfying simmer of a read and a nice take on a non-traditional family that seems pretty freaking traditional from up close. ...more As hard as it may be to believe, Golden Richards is lonely. Golden has four wives and 28 children, but he's never been lonelier in his life. He is mired in a controversial construction job that, if discovered, could bring disgrace to him and his family; he knows his wives and children are looking to him more and more for guidance but he can't avoid them quickly enough; he is still mourning the loss of one of his daughters several years ago; and he has begun a tantalizing flirtation with Huila, a As hard as it may be to believe, Golden Richards is lonely. Golden has four wives and 28 children, but he's never been lonelier in his life. He is mired in a controversial construction job that, if discovered, could bring disgrace to him and his family; he knows his wives and children are looking to him more and more for guidance but he can't avoid them quickly enough; he is still mourning the loss of one of his daughters several years ago; and he has begun a tantalizing flirtation with Huila, a Guatemalan woman who doesn't know about his real life. He is so afraid of letting everyone down but wants nothing more than to run away and avoid the crushing responsibilities. The Lonely Polygamist is a humorous, heartbreaking, frustrating and beautifully written novel that looks at the realities of polygamy through the eyes of Golden; Trish, his fourth wife; and Rusty, one of his sons, who doesn't quite fit in and wants to be unique, not just one of 28 children. Brady Udall has done a terrific job creating compelling characters and a story that provides deep perspectives into what has brought Golden to this lonely crossroads in his life. While sometimes Golden is a little too passive and you want to react to him the way his wives want to, at his core you see that this is a man desperate for love and approval who is fearful of making a wrong turn but unsure what else to do. The literary world has billed this book as the next Great American Novel. I don't think it's quite at that level, but it is a really well-written book with a lot of heart, one that is definitely worth reading. ...more It always amazes when a book is populated with characters that I find annoying or distasteful, yet I'm satisfied with my reading experience by the time I finish. I like a book with colorful characters with a few flaws, but I usually would like to root for at least one of them. In The Lonely Polygamist by Brady Udell, I found myself wanting to to line up every character, every single character, and just do a running slap until I ran out of faces. Still, I don't regret a minute of the reading expe It always amazes when a book is populated with characters that I find annoying or distasteful, yet I'm satisfied with my reading experience by the time I finish. I like a book with colorful characters with a few flaws, but I usually would like to root for at least one of them. In The Lonely Polygamist by Brady Udell, I found myself wanting to to line up every character, every single character, and just do a running slap until I ran out of faces. Still, I don't regret a minute of the reading experience. The novel details the life of Golden, an almost reluctant polygamist, his four wives, and 28 children. He's too meek to really be the patriarch of such a clan, so the children run wild while his wives brood over his continuous, seemingly willful absence. As the story progresses, the reader learns the secret history of the family and each member's struggle for control over their own lives in a world where little individuality is accepted. As much as I wanted to punch literally everyone in it, the book offers an interesting view into the dynamics of a plural marriage. Imagine Big Love in novel form and you pretty much have it. Polygamy is such an exotic phenomenon, yet it exists in our own backyards. If I met a polygamist family, I would have so many questions that would probably be too rude to say out loud: What keeps it all together? How do the children get the individual attention that they need and deserve? How does the arrangement stay vital? So many questions, but no polygamists to ask. ...more During the first couple of chapters, I laughed with delight at the wit of the writing. But then that wit either disappeared or was overshadowed by a lot of things that bugged me. The history of Golden doesn't match up at all with who he is during the present action of the book. I just couldn't see him as a believable character after that. I don't know a lot about polygamist fundamentalists, but it seemed like the tobacco, alcohol, and swearing don't match up. I also didn't find the common assump During the first couple of chapters, I laughed with delight at the wit of the writing. But then that wit either disappeared or was overshadowed by a lot of things that bugged me. The history of Golden doesn't match up at all with who he is during the present action of the book. I just couldn't see him as a believable character after that. I don't know a lot about polygamist fundamentalists, but it seemed like the tobacco, alcohol, and swearing don't match up. I also didn't find the common assumptions about polygamists to be realistic: for example, the father forgetting his kids' names? Every father does that now and then, but I can tell you that my grandparents on both sides know the names of every one of their 30+ grandchildren. The boy Rusty's constant wish for a \"regular family\" also doesn't seem realistic. What is a regular family? To him, it's what he has experienced. My last complaint is the focus on sex. How do I explain? The focus in this book didn't seem to be in the right place. I think a polygamist family would look at sex as a good bond between husband and wife and useful for making children, but Udall's writing about it made it seem more like a dirty, forbidden thing that everyone wants anyway, such as the young boy fantasizing and constantly sexually excited. Anyway, to summarize, the delight of the first few chapters was quickly disappointed. P.S. Correct me if I'm wrong, but cleavage at a polygamist wedding? Yeah right. ...more I have gotten in the habit of not reading reviews or even the blurbs on the book jacket because I like for the story to unfold without my brain saying, \"But when is that going to happen...\" 300 pages into this book, I thought that all of those reviews and blurbs that I didn't read must say \"this book is about a lonely polygamist. Nothing more, nothing less.\" When I got to page 602 (the end), I thought, \"Wow. That book was named well but I could have just stopped at the title.\" Because that is it I have gotten in the habit of not reading reviews or even the blurbs on the book jacket because I like for the story to unfold without my brain saying, \"But when is that going to happen...\" 300 pages into this book, I thought that all of those reviews and blurbs that I didn't read must say \"this book is about a lonely polygamist. Nothing more, nothing less.\" When I got to page 602 (the end), I thought, \"Wow. That book was named well but I could have just stopped at the title.\" Because that is it. The book is about a lonely polygamist. It is not a sad book, nor is it a funny book; neither good, nor bad. There is so much more promise in the title than the book realizes. So take my advice, read the title and then move on. Unless you want to read 602 okay pages instead of just a witty, descriptive three words. On Goodreads, two stars means \"It was okay\" and that is as much enthusiasm as I can muster. If I could rate just the title, I might go with \"really liked it (4 stars)\". ...more A family drama, laced with comedy, but still heartbreaking - I found The Lonely Polygamist a most pleasant surprise. Golden Richards is the Lonely Polygamist and as he stumbles about trying to do right by his family (4 wives, 28 children), his struggles do not seem that different from anyone else's. While they may not be different, they are compelling. You will find yourself flying to the end of this book (it is a big one - 600 pages) just to find out what happens to all the characters. Udall do A family drama, laced with comedy, but still heartbreaking - I found The Lonely Polygamist a most pleasant surprise. Golden Richards is the Lonely Polygamist and as he stumbles about trying to do right by his family (4 wives, 28 children), his struggles do not seem that different from anyone else's. While they may not be different, they are compelling. You will find yourself flying to the end of this book (it is a big one - 600 pages) just to find out what happens to all the characters. Udall does a great job of creating a number of characters, all of whom you feel vested in. This is one of the best books I have read in quite a while! ...more The first thing that catches your eye is the title: The Lonely Polygamist? Talk about an oxymoron. But it's actually a perfectly succinct way to describe one man's rise and fall (or is it fall and rise?) within a small community of polygamist Mormons. And it's a very powerful, literary read. Brady Udall's novel focuses on three characters (and thank goodness, since the cast encompasses nearly 30 people!): Golden, husband to four wives and the lonely polygamist of the title; Trish, Golden's fourth The first thing that catches your eye is the title: The Lonely Polygamist? Talk about an oxymoron. But it's actually a perfectly succinct way to describe one man's rise and fall (or is it fall and rise?) within a small community of polygamist Mormons. And it's a very powerful, literary read. Brady Udall's novel focuses on three characters (and thank goodness, since the cast encompasses nearly 30 people!): Golden, husband to four wives and the lonely polygamist of the title; Trish, Golden's fourth and youngest wife; and Rusty, son #5 and the \"weird kid\" of the family. Chapters alternate between the three of them, and span from Golden's and Trish's dysfunctional childhoods to the present day. Each character also has their own arc, from Trish moving forward from past hurts and finding her place in the family to Golden fleeing his family through his attraction to another woman (and its unpredictable aftermath) to Rusty trying to find his place in the world through acting out. Though Golden's is ostensibly the main story, and takes up the most pages, I thought Rusty's was the most heart-wrenching. Now, it would have been easy for Udall to simply villanize the polygamists--but it also would have made a boring and one-dimensional book. I think he instead paints a really nuanced and fair-handed picture of how the polygamist lifestyle affects different people. Trish, for example, craves the noise, the warmth, the constant presence of other people; throughout most of the book, Golden is trying to escape from those same exact things; and it's the noise and stress that makes Wife #3, Rose-of-Sharon, break down. Most of the kids don't seem troubled by having 12 brothers, but lack of attention and care makes an outcast and a troublemaker out of Rusty. Instead of sharp, black and white judgements, The Lonely Polygamist takes the harder, but ultimately more rewarding, tack of making us feel what Golden's family feels about their lifestyle and draw our own conclusions. Udall treats everyone gently and with respect--even when you just want to shake Golden until he makes a decision, damnit. The novel also goes in completely unexpected places--at least, I was surprised by what happens to Golden and Rusty by the story's end. It's a page-turner in the best sense. How will Golden handle his attraction to Huila? Will Trish leave the polygamist life behind? Does Rusty find a way to fit in without alienating everyone around him, or is he doomed by the limitations of the church? The Lonely Polygamist is a perfect example of readable, moving literary fiction--well-crafted, thoughtful, funny, emotional--and I highly recommend it. I received this book as an ARC from W.W. Norton, through the LibraryThing Early Reviewers Program. The Lonely Polygamist comes out May 3, 2010. Bookwanderer Rating: Four and a half out of five stars Bookwanderer Tagline: Four wives, 20+ kids, one husband, and a lot of family drama. ...more The Lonely Polygamist is one of the longest books I have read in quite some time. I have a theory that when I am wanting to read really long books, I am trying to fight off my inevidable death (How can someone die while in the middle of a book?). This in nonsense, and I know it, but most of the time I avoid reading anything this long. The 600+ pages breeze by, and the story, though a little underwelming, is quite an intersting cache of characters. You have four wives and 20+ kids, you have a fir The Lonely Polygamist is one of the longest books I have read in quite some time. I have a theory that when I am wanting to read really long books, I am trying to fight off my inevidable death (How can someone die while in the middle of a book?). This in nonsense, and I know it, but most of the time I avoid reading anything this long. The 600+ pages breeze by, and the story, though a little underwelming, is quite an intersting cache of characters. You have four wives and 20+ kids, you have a fireworks maker, you have a renegade 12 year old, you have a brothel owner, you have an ostrich, and you have God, of course. All of these things work together into a mesh that becomes a tangle and this tangle is not really as important or as good it could be, but it still becomes a pretty decent story. Some of the best parts of this book are the symbols. Particually windows. There is an sense of sadness that comes when the characters look out of or in to windows. This sadness is fraut with desire, desire to run away but the panes of glass are keeping them prisoner, making them deal with the problems in their lives. The worst part about this book is Golden Richards, the husband, liar, cheater, loser of the bunch. He is a big bumbling wimp, and there is really no reason why any of the women should be attracted to, let alone married to him. He seems more like the guy who got a lucky break, found a wife, found three more wives, and does not know what to do with himself. He is such an dolt that it is more likely that he would not try to run from his family, but to his family, since those are the only people who, most likely, care about him. If he were a person in my life, I would see him as he is, a man who has alot, but is too stupid to figure it out. In some moments of his story, I want to punch him in the face. Not because of anger but because someone needs to. In all, I find that The Lonely Polygamist does has some merit, maybe literary, maybe to shed some light on the secrecy of plural marriage, but to say this is the best book I've ever read or that I would read it again is far from the truth. ...more From the start, I figured I'd probably hate this: 600 pages of what seemed to probably be a \"Big Love\" knock-off, a mopey Mormon philander-y tale. Brady Udall's book, though, made me a believer (of his talent, anyway): it was a breezy, incredibly warm and poignant story of love and loss and familial dysfunction and reconciliation that had me alternately laughing uproariously and weeping uncontrollably. The title is slightly misleading: \"The Lonely Polygamist\" implies it's primarily about one lone From the start, I figured I'd probably hate this: 600 pages of what seemed to probably be a \"Big Love\" knock-off, a mopey Mormon philander-y tale. Brady Udall's book, though, made me a believer (of his talent, anyway): it was a breezy, incredibly warm and poignant story of love and loss and familial dysfunction and reconciliation that had me alternately laughing uproariously and weeping uncontrollably. The title is slightly misleading: \"The Lonely Polygamist\" implies it's primarily about one lonely head of a polygamist family. This is partially true; indeed, Golden Richards, with 4 wives and 28 children (give or take) is certainly a lonely guy. If the book stopped right there, it might've turned out to be the painful slog I'd anticipated. The story is related through three primary protagonists, all with the purpose of giving the complete picture of the very extended Richards family: Golden himself, a shlubby oafish guy who seems to have found himself with this enormous family (fraught with the responsibilities attached with it) by sheer happenstance; Trish, his youngest wife, who is is easily just as lonely as her husband, who grapples with feelings of loss and abandonment by the choices she's made in marrying into the Fundamentalist Mormon way of life; and Rusty, one of the umpteen kids of Golden's, who feels lost in the shuffle and acts out accordingly (earning the moniker \"the Family Terrorist\" by one of his moms) and brings some much needed comic relief to the fore just by demonstrating his pre-teen hormonal pratfalls and efforts at attention-seeking. I'm not exactly sure why I loved this book as much as I did, but it was very much in sync with my spirit of late. It is rare, though, when I read a 600-page book and NEVER ONCE look to see how many pages I have left (the book-reading equivalent of glancing at your watch while watching a long movie). I loved it, and (in light of its rather low Goodreads cume rating of 3.5) would hope I'm not alone in this estimation. ...more I was curious to see how Udall, who I could tell was a Mormon based solely from his last name (is that bad of me? oh well), would handle a novel about Mormon fundamentalist polygamists. I grew up a Utah Mormon, and my recollection of the polygamists is....well, I didn't have much of a recollection beyond that they were kind of like the oddball, embarrassing cousins everyone tried to pretend were not related to us. Mainstream Mormons are not the most upfront about acknowledging the existence of t I was curious to see how Udall, who I could tell was a Mormon based solely from his last name (is that bad of me? oh well), would handle a novel about Mormon fundamentalist polygamists. I grew up a Utah Mormon, and my recollection of the polygamists is....well, I didn't have much of a recollection beyond that they were kind of like the oddball, embarrassing cousins everyone tried to pretend were not related to us. Mainstream Mormons are not the most upfront about acknowledging the existence of the polygamists and the connections between the two communities, is what I'm saying. I finished the book last night, and my verdict is that he handled the sprawling Richards family with sensitivity and imagination. Instead of making them into caricatures - the downtrodden wives, the dominating patriarch, the hordes of squalid children - Udall turns your expectations on their heads and offers up a family in which the patriarch is a bumbling doofus, the family is a tapestry of alliances and divisions, and the wives are the competent glue that keeps the whole clan together. I thought this was kind of a funny critique of patriarchal systems, in which the father figure is invested with all power and authority as God's representative on earth, even if he is a total dope, while the women are subservient to the patriarch in all things, even if they could crush him with their blistering intellect and titanium will. Obvious, sure, but then the fact that such a belief system persists in about a zillion different manifestations tells me that even the most obvious, bone-headed critique is still necessary. As a result, Golden could be quite annoying, so passive and baffled by the world around him, but I think that's realistic, because seriously, there are people on this planet who are just like that. I know it would be nice if all characters in all books could be likeable at all times, but the truth is, people just aren't that way. The good news is that people can change, and that sometimes it takes unimaginably painful events to force that change, which is something that is reflected in this book. I will say that I didn't love the ending, and that's because I was absolutely rooting for a particular outcome involving Trish. (I won't say any more so as to avoid spoiling.) The third perspective, that of Rusty, the outcast 11-year-old boy, crushed me. And...how to put this delicately, there was an exchange of sorts between Trish and Rusty toward the end of the book that had me seriously sketched out. Anyone else who has read this book, you know what I'm talking about? That's a pretty minor critique, though. Ultimately I found this to be a very enjoyable read, with the right mix of literary quality, in terms of writing and character development, and flat-out good storytelling. It's been a while since I read a literary novel that had me wondering what was going to happen next and how the hell the characters were going to get themselves out of whatever mess they'd gotten themselves into. ...more I loved this book on many different levels. Yes, it is about polygamy--fascinating in and of itself--but polygamy is merely the backdrop, or mechanism, for achieving its deeper themes. Artfully written, it speaks to the loneliness and isolation of the human condition. Loss, grief, identity, love, redemption--they're all in there. The main character, Golden Richards, is not so likeable, but his journey is definitely interesting. All the characters, in fact, are interesting and unique, if not downr I loved this book on many different levels. Yes, it is about polygamy--fascinating in and of itself--but polygamy is merely the backdrop, or mechanism, for achieving its deeper themes. Artfully written, it speaks to the loneliness and isolation of the human condition. Loss, grief, identity, love, redemption--they're all in there. The main character, Golden Richards, is not so likeable, but his journey is definitely interesting. All the characters, in fact, are interesting and unique, if not downright hilarious. They stand as true individuals, which seems paradoxical in a book about communal living. Their stories are woven together flawlessly in a page-turning narrative. The story evolves from the absurd, the uncomfortable, and the irreverent into a serious, moving reading experience. The writing is funny, poignant, and engaging. (Can I use any more adjectives in this review? I don't think so.) I would not necessarily recommend this book to most of my friends on Goodreads because it definitely has some strong content and a bit of strong language. To me, none of it was gratuitous so it didn't bother me. The sexual situations weren't about sex in the physical sense, but rather about intimacy and vulnerability. While I know these sections of the book would make a lot of people uncomfortable, I do not believe the author's intent was to arouse or excite. It was gritty--very HUMAN--which isn't to everyone's taste, but I was OK with it. Overall, I came away with a deeper appreciation of the richness of the human experience. ...more Golden Richards has 4 wives and 28 children. He's overwhelmed by what he has wrought. Strung out by trying to support his huge brood, confused over which wife he's supposed to spend the night with, and in need of chanting a mantra to remember the kids' names. (Hey - I only have two kids and I can't keep their names straight!) He's a lonely man. His fourth wife, Trish is lonely too. Still stinging over the recent death of a child, she is unsure how to reconnect with her mostly absent husband. Rusty Golden Richards has 4 wives and 28 children. He's overwhelmed by what he has wrought. Strung out by trying to support his huge brood, confused over which wife he's supposed to spend the night with, and in need of chanting a mantra to remember the kids' names. (Hey - I only have two kids and I can't keep their names straight!) He's a lonely man. His fourth wife, Trish is lonely too. Still stinging over the recent death of a child, she is unsure how to reconnect with her mostly absent husband. Rusty, Golden's son #5, aka \"The Family Terrorist\", is very lonely. He waits by the window, counting passing headlights, waiting for his father to return home and pay him the slightest bit of attention - heartbreaking! The book focuses mainly on these three characters, though most members of this vast family suffer some form of loneliness. Children misbehave, knowing that parental reprimands are better than no attention. The wives hold bi-weekly summits/complaint sessions just hoping to be noticed. Despite the sad undertones, this book is in no way depressing. Rusty and Golden continually bumble into hilarious situations and supporting characters provide comic relief. Rusty, in particular, is one of the most endearing and memorable characters I have encountered in modern fiction. The ending was not what I was expecting, but I found it quite satisfying. This book is a keeper. Beneath all the tabloid sensationalism that first draws your attention, it is basically just a great story about an American family. ...more<---C>Brady Udall</---C>", "Title": "The Lonely Polygamist"},
