{"Comments": "I honestly don't have the luxury of time to read novels as much as I want to because pre-med is draining the life out of me. That being said, I carefully choose the novels that I read because a bad novel would make me avoid reading even more. <+++>Everlost</+++> is one of those novels that destroys the reading slump. It also makes you want to read despite the draining day you've just had. My trust in the YA genre is slowly growing again. <+++>Everlost</+++> is about being in a state of limbo. The catch though is that I honestly don't have the luxury of time to read novels as much as I want to because pre-med is draining the life out of me. That being said, I carefully choose the novels that I read because a bad novel would make me avoid reading even more. Everlost is one of those novels that destroys the reading slump. It also makes you want to read despite the draining day you've just had. My trust in the YA genre is slowly growing again. Everlost is about being in a state of limbo. The catch though is that it only works on kids. Anyone above the age of fifteen would just continue on in their journey to wherever they are destined to go. It may sound interesting, but Everlost is not a nice place to live in. There are rules that you need to follow if you don't want to end up falling, or being stuffed in a pickle barrel. There are people you need to avoid messing with, or your already miserable life will become even worse. It's a matter of survival and finding a way to escape the place. Allie and Nick are the main characters in the novel. They are not related, but they did arrive at Everlost at the same time. For every person there is a different personality. One of the two is a hard headed kid who would stop at nothing for answers, and the other is a easy-go-lucky kid who'd rather follow the rules. It's interesting how different the two of them are but I still learned to like them both. The characters in the novel are pretty good. You wouldn't expect such developed characters in a YA novel, but Everlost managed to deliver what it promised. Even the villains are interesting, and the usual corny ones.<---F> The plot itself is also great</---F>. I liked the flow of the story and how the first book ended. it's a trilogy so it's normal to have a slight cliffhanger coming from the first book. Everything wrapped up nicely though, and the author managed to fill in the plot holes in this novel. Most would wrap things up in the last book, but Shusterman knows how to write. I saw reviews stating that this book is far too similar to some other YA books. Luckily for me,<---M> everything seemed new to me</---M>, and nothing felt like something I've read before. 4.5/5 stars. One of the best YA novels I've read ever. Highly recommended if you want a short but great read. Can't wait to read the second novel. ...more Everlost reminded me of several books I felt rather lukewarm about - Elsewhere , Lord of the Flies and Gone . It deals with afterlife (<---B>specifically, the limbo between life and death</---B>) and kids behaving badly when left on their own. I can see why fans of Unwind would be underwhelmed by Everlost . I was too, a little. It is a good book, but it is clearly a children's book. There are no adults in it, the characters are all under 15. Even when the story handles very serious matters (that scared and creep Everlost reminded me of several books I felt rather lukewarm about - Elsewhere , Lord of the Flies and Gone . It deals with afterlife (specifically, the limbo between life and death) and kids behaving badly when left on their own. I can see why fans of Unwind would be underwhelmed by Everlost . I was too, a little. It is a good book, but it is clearly a children's book. There are no adults in it, the characters are all under 15. Even when the story handles very serious matters (that scared and creeped me out BTW), it does so in a manner suitable for children - the villains, the torture devices (a pickle barrel?) and violence are of a milder type. Even though I knew from the get-go Everlost would never be one of my favorite books, once I made a decision to stick with the story anyway, I came to like it a lot and even developed a good amount of affection for its characters. Shusterman's vision of mid-existence struck my imagination. The boredom, uneventfulness, the obliteration of one's identity - DEPRESSING! If this is what being stuck in a limbo would be, I don't see how it is better than hell. For those who dropped the book early on asked me if it gets better, here is my answer - it doesn't really. But I eventually got interested enough in the story to want to read the sequels and to see how it all ends. I just wish this series was written with an older set of characters and gorier details to go along with already sufficiently disturbing and mature concept. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Let me begin by saying that . . . . Nope. When I saw Will\u2019s review and that Everlost was written by Shusterman I was all in. Unfortunately I was still floating on an Unwind high and failed to pay attention to the fact that this wasn\u2019t quite going to push the envelope like that one did. What we have here is an unfortunate meet and greet between Nick and Allie . . . When they \u201cwake up\u201d they discover something new about themselves . . . Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Let me begin by saying that . . . . Nope. When I saw Will\u2019s review and that Everlost was written by Shusterman I was all in. Unfortunately I was still floating on an Unwind high and failed to pay attention to the fact that this wasn\u2019t quite going to push the envelope like that one did. What we have here is an unfortunate meet and greet between Nick and Allie . . . When they \u201cwake up\u201d they discover something new about themselves . . . They\u2019re also left with the question of whether or not they made it to heaven . . . Okay, not really, but it is a state of limbo. The remainder of the story is a quest to find others like themselves and a way to possibly make it back home. As I said before, Everlost was extremely tame compared to my previous Shusterman experience. However, it was still a pretty decent read. If you or your children enjoyed Miss Peregrine , this might be a selection for you. ...more I swear on my dog's life that <---A>Neal Shusterman</---A>'s Everlost is pure awesomeness. Kids who die go to a sort of place but not a place existing between life and death called Everlost. If they stay there instead of passing on, they have to stay in areas called \"dead spots\", where a significant death has happened. (Main kids Allie and Nick's car accident took place by a forest that has burned down. Sometimes a spot is massive, such as the entire city of Atlanta (seen in the second in the Skinjacker tril I swear on my dog's life that Neal Shusterman's Everlost is pure awesomeness. Kids who die go to a sort of place but not a place existing between life and death called Everlost. If they stay there instead of passing on, they have to stay in areas called \"dead spots\", where a significant death has happened. (Main kids Allie and Nick's car accident took place by a forest that has burned down. Sometimes a spot is massive, such as the entire city of Atlanta (seen in the second in the Skinjacker trilogy, Everwild). These spots are what is still real to the kids, and the \"live\" spots they will sink right through if they stay there for any time. [I loved the details, like Shusterman thought of everything.] Food passes through if it had some special meaning to a person, like birthday cakes. That doesn't happen often. Fortune cookies are everywhere (there's more to this I shall say nothing about, lest I become too spoilerific), however. (Shusterman put a lot of thought into realizing the world of Everlost. The detail is half the fun.) Kids who have made their er living in Everlost trade in a black market (there's no law but it still feels black market all the same. Probably 'cause the trading gets dirty) of rare goods such as food, or vehicles that have passed through (one character drives the Hindenburg. I must say I enjoyed the way he played with disasters from the past). Every kid has a coin on them (representing the payment to pass on). If they have no unfinished business, their coin will take them back. An older kid Mary Hightower (her name comes from her dominion of the world trade center) thinks she knows what is best for everyone else, and it is in her best interest to keep kids from passing on. She loves to be needed. One way she does this is ensure that kids forget themselves by installing them in meaningless routines (she'd get along great with The Terrible Trivium from The Phantom Tollbooth). The coins? Mary Her High and mighty Highness has them throw away in a wishing well. (Evil isn't she.) Mary Hightower is one of my favorite villains of ya fiction. She means well, but lord is she infuriating. Mary Hightower publishes manifestos to lead lost kiddos to her cause. Her propaganda is far reaching. The lost kiddos have to remind themselves constantly of themselves. Most cannot remember their old names for long, let alone what they really looked like. They become what they feel like they look like, and that can lead to becoming something of a darker nature. If they can't remember themselves, they'll be in Everlost forever (under that hoity toity Mary Hightower? Yikes!). The other baddie of the book is the monster McGill, another Everlost legend, with a decidedly less than friendly reputation than that of Mary Hightower. There is more to Everlost than the inhabitants will have Nick and Allie believe. (It's a bit like prison in that the worst part is the other inhabitants. The whole black market thing put me immediately in mind of prison. Something might be wrong with my mind.) I enjoyed their story in this bizarre little death world. Nick is determined to stop Mary Hightower (too bad he's also in love with her). Allie wants to see her family again, and is still stuck to her old life. Their friend Leif from the forest is something like one of Peter Pan's Lost Boys. I wouldn't lie where this little guy is concerned. (Even if he is a ventriloquist pooter. The crafty little devil blames me for all his farts, from silent but deadly to the musical variety.) ...more \u201cBut we can't choose what we forget. The more we try to forget something, the more we end up remembering it.\u201d I should've read Everlost before. Even I idolized and worshipped Neal Shusterman, I stalled myself to read this book because I thought I will not enjoy an afterlife novel. Guess, I was wrong. I really did enjoy reading this one. Everlost is a limbo between life and death. It's where the dead children go. No adults. Just children up to the age of 14. It's like the afterlife but it is not \u201cBut we can't choose what we forget. The more we try to forget something, the more we end up remembering it.\u201d I should've read Everlost before. Even I idolized and worshipped Neal Shusterman, I stalled myself to read this book because I thought I will not enjoy an afterlife novel. Guess, I was wrong. I really did enjoy reading this one. Everlost is a limbo between life and death. It's where the dead children go. No adults. Just children up to the age of 14. It's like the afterlife but it is not? As a novel, Everlost is a fun but haunting one. Fun because there's a great adventure and mysteries to solve. Haunting because it reminds us about the complexity of life and death and everything in-between. It looks like a book about children playing and doing stuff but it's actually a dark one that convey lessons and realization about existing and not existing. Seriously when I think about it, I got scared of what is waiting for me in the other side or is there really a destination after all of these? What is the feeling of being stucked in a miserable place? Yep, I got scared with those thoughts. Anyway, I liked how the characters had grown into me, major or minor. Their characterization had been developed so well, I ended up liking them all and very much anticipating what they will do in the sequel. The world-building were superb also. I pictured it fine in my mind and found it truly interesting and disturbing. Shusterman described the Everlost like it was real. But, he left some mysteries to be pondered upon. There are still holes to fill and questions to answer about this bizarre world of the dead children. As a whole, Everlost is an engrossing read. It captures the child in me and makes me appreciate the fun, adventure, dread, hopes, dreams and worry and everything else experienced by the characters. It lures me to an intriguing and haunting world without having me oriented to what I will stumble upon. And it makes me think about life and death and to what will happen next. ...more Well there's one lesson I learned from this book, never teach your kids to stay put when they get lost. This book taught me the importance of trying to find your way to where you're going no matter what the challenges or obstacles you're faced with. I picked up Everlost because I was captivated by Shusterman's book Unwind. It's good, just not Unwind's caliber of great. This story is about two souls, Allie and Nick, that are in a fatal car accident. Upon their death and on their way to the 'light Well there's one lesson I learned from this book, never teach your kids to stay put when they get lost. This book taught me the importance of trying to find your way to where you're going no matter what the challenges or obstacles you're faced with. I picked up Everlost because I was captivated by Shusterman's book Unwind. It's good, just not Unwind's caliber of great. This story is about two souls, Allie and Nick, that are in a fatal car accident. Upon their death and on their way to the 'light' they collide and lose course, ending up in an intermittent state of existence, a land called Everlost. Through their adventure in Everlost they come across other souls, as well as monsters, haunters and all things slightly bizarre. Their journey to get where they need to go is one of struggle, frustration, and ultimately accomplishment. I rooted for the two main characters all the way through to the end. This book had the feel of a dead man's version of Peter Pan and The Lost Boys. I enjoyed it, but it was a little too young for my reading preference. There are some great lessons though that anyone can pull from the book including, the responsibility of power, what is truly important in life, what happens after death and the meaning of friendship, loyalty and choices. If you enjoy adventure, fantasy, with a sprinkle of science fiction, you'll enjoy this book. If I had the option to give it three and a half stars, I would. It's a good book, just maybe for a younger crowd. ...more \"There's no easy way to tell new arrivals to Everlost that, technically, they are no longer alive.\" If you like ghost stories and chocolate, you will love this book. First, I'll say that I love the cover. It's simple, different and I just adore it. Now, Everlost had me hooked from the first chapter. It was an amazing attention getter. Two children die in a car accident. Yes. And the story was just so intriguing and crazy. The whole premise of this book is about children dying, and the world the \"There's no easy way to tell new arrivals to Everlost that, technically, they are no longer alive.\" If you like ghost stories and chocolate, you will love this book. First, I'll say that I love the cover. It's simple, different and I just adore it. Now, Everlost had me hooked from the first chapter. It was an amazing attention getter. Two children die in a car accident. Yes. And the story was just so intriguing and crazy. The whole premise of this book is about children dying, and the world they get lost in; the world between Earth and heaven/hell, Everlost. So, Nick and Allie are stuck in Everlost and just want to find a way home. The book follows their trials and errors in trying to do so. It was pretty easy reading, but the plot was intricate. I just felt like it was slow in places and I think some more action would have helped a lot. This wasn't as thought-provoking and gripping as Unwind but it does challenge a little. 3.5 stars ...more I'm having a hard time trying to determine how I feel about Everlost. After reading and greatly enjoying \"Unwind\", I was eager to read another book Shusterman had written. On the one hand, as an adult reading it, I definitely found the writing style geared for juvenile readers around the age of 10-13 (which is who the book is marketed for). On the other hand, I also continually wondered at the appeal to these same readers based on the way Shusterman presented his ideas on the afterlife of dead c I'm having a hard time trying to determine how I feel about Everlost. After reading and greatly enjoying \"Unwind\", I was eager to read another book Shusterman had written. On the one hand, as an adult reading it, I definitely found the writing style geared for juvenile readers around the age of 10-13 (which is who the book is marketed for). On the other hand, I also continually wondered at the appeal to these same readers based on the way Shusterman presented his ideas on the afterlife of dead children. Personally, I would have been disturbed at that age to read about dead children wandering around in another dimension and not being \"where they were supposed to be\". Even as an adult, I was creeped out by some of the visuals and ideas that this book forced me to explore regarding the afterlife. Books on death for young adults aren't necessarily a bad thing at all, I'm just on the fence as to whether Everlost is one of the better examples a kid in that age range could read. I think that I would have had less ambivalence about Everlost had it been written for an older juvenile reading audience and contained an older group of characters in the book. Little lost dead kids are just...wrong, somehow. ...more Everlost is a book that is written about the in-between stage of life and death. Not all souls leave the living world and head straight to heaven or hell. Some get stuck in this world known as Everlost and these souls that are trapped here are known as Afterlights. I found the book captivating in the beginning portions and the plot was magnificent. I liked the excerpts that were written at the ends of each chapter. It gave more details on the Everlost world. The Everlost world is a place that is Everlost is a book that is written about the in-between stage of life and death. Not all souls leave the living world and head straight to heaven or hell. Some get stuck in this world known as Everlost and these souls that are trapped here are known as Afterlights. I found the book captivating in the beginning portions and the plot was magnificent. I liked the excerpts that were written at the ends of each chapter. It gave more details on the Everlost world. The Everlost world is a place that is jam-packed with mystery and the depth of unknown is unimaginable. Even those who claim to be experts in the world take refuge and hide out in their own safe haven; avoiding the dangers that lurk in Everlost. Everlost is filled with Monsters, Haunters, Finders and Gangs. Everyone who is trapped in Everlost wander aimlessly in search of a purpose or safety. The story follows the main characters Allie and Nick who are Greensouls ; new souls that have arrived in Everlost. Being Greensouls, they're unaware of the dangers that lurk in Everlost. They find another Afterlight named Lief and they seek out to find out more about the new world that they're in. This adventure leads them in meeting monsters, haunters, finders and also brings them to find true love. The adventures in the book were rather thrilling at points but after a certain point it just got repetitive for me. The same sinking to the centre of the earth ordeal, the same routines that they carried out and the whole pickle barrel torture thing was just....... I don't have any words for that. Seriously, you're a ghost that is also skilled with some magic and you torture your victims by locking them up in a pickle barrel? Ghosts can't feel pain and they can't die. I was just confused by it. I was like WHAAAAAAAAAT?! I also wished for mature characters. I could not relate to the main characters in any way as all the characters in this book were of ages 15 and below. Why don't any adults make it to Everlost? The whole love that bloomed in the book also was a little shrilling. I just don't like it when my mind processes the thought of 14 year olds kissing. I just feel a disgusted when I do that. Other than these few flaws, I found the book enjoyable and the creativity displayed in this book is brilliant. Creating an entire new world and having it being written with such poise is truly outstanding. Everlost is a scary place to end up in if you're unsure of any of the dangers that lurk. I will definitely read up the following books in the skinjacker series as I am curious in reading their new adventures. ...more Addicting, creative, fascinating tale that weaves something that could have been either cliched or overly creepy into something brilliant and original. Allie and Nick are dead, killed instantly in a car crash that involved their respective family's cars. According to the laws of the universe, they should have crossed over. But the thing is, not all children cross over. Some trip, stumble, or resist the journey into the light...and end up in Everlost, just like Allie and Nick have. Everlost is a b Addicting, creative, fascinating tale that weaves something that could have been either cliched or overly creepy into something brilliant and original. Allie and Nick are dead, killed instantly in a car crash that involved their respective family's cars. According to the laws of the universe, they should have crossed over. But the thing is, not all children cross over. Some trip, stumble, or resist the journey into the light...and end up in Everlost, just like Allie and Nick have. Everlost is a between-place, and Shusterman throws it wide open in amazing, utterly commendable style. Rarely does an author have the talent to make a world their own so fully, as well as flesh the characters that inhabit it. There are rules to be followed, monsters to be feared, leaders to be looked to. It is a full and fascinating world in its own right. Allie and Nick are different from most Afterlights; they're not content simply to wander eternally, forgetting their lives and falling into ruts of endless patience. They want answers, they want life, and they refuse to take no for an answer. But their quest will take them into the heart of New York and up and down the East Coast as they become enmeshed among Everlost's most well-known characters; Mary Hightower, who zealously protects the Afterlight children who come under her care; the Alter Boys, a rough and tumble gang who only respect might; the Haunter, who knows all kinds of tricks for interacting with the living; and the McGill, the horrific monster whose very name terrifies everyone who hears it. And the further the two go, the more they realize what powers they possess, and how they fit into the grand scheme of Everlost. Weaving all these and more together, and exploring their relationships, their motivations and personalities, and in the end their destinies, Shusterman has truly made a stunning beginning novel to this trilogy. None of Everlost's components are heavy-handed or ridiculous. Any religious or scientific quarrels are neatly circumvented, as reaching the afterlife beyond Everlost is simply referred to as \"getting where you're going.\" Real world places, things, and events are cleverly and tastefully referenced, often in unexpected and amusing ways (I especially found the significance of the Twin Towers to be creative and well-handled, and keep an eye out for a hilarious Amityville Horror reference.) All in all, I can't wait to return to Everlost in the sequel. ...more 3-3.5 stars Similar to Neal Shusterman's other books, this one has a very unique and thought-provoking concept. Unfortunately, this one put me at a bit of a disadvantage as a reader due to my own personal reasons. Not long after picking up Everlost, I had a moment of pure, terrible clarity in facing my biggest fear: death. It still terrifies the wits out of me to think about for too long, but after that I couldn't pick this up for several weeks. So already partway into the book, I was battling wi 3-3.5 stars Similar to Neal Shusterman's other books, this one has a very unique and thought-provoking concept. Unfortunately, this one put me at a bit of a disadvantage as a reader due to my own personal reasons. Not long after picking up Everlost, I had a moment of pure, terrible clarity in facing my biggest fear: death. It still terrifies the wits out of me to think about for too long, but after that I couldn't pick this up for several weeks. So already partway into the book, I was battling with my own thoughts as I read. It got distracting and I often had to set the book aside in favor of something that wouldn't leave me shaking. Several months later, I'm proud to say I've finished the book. It turned out to be not as good as I'd hoped, but not quite what I had expected either. For that, it gets a middle-ground rating. I honestly don't know if it would have gotten a higher rating had I not had that episode early on. By the end of the book things really picked up and we finally got some answers in this hazy, purgatory-like world. I'll probably finish the trilogy, but it's not a huge priority right now. As it is, I'm glad to be finishing 2015 with a read I'm proud I got through. ...more I imagine the center of the Earth must be a crowded place by now, but perhaps it is the spirits of those of us residing there that keep the Earth alive and green. It's really hard to find a good young adult novel. That's the genre I read most. However, it is also the one that displeases me most, because almost all of its books contain the same repetitive, tediuos and boring story that it's focused on a chicl\u00e9 teenage romance. Neal Shusterman has done that weird thing: he wrote a young adult boo I imagine the center of the Earth must be a crowded place by now, but perhaps it is the spirits of those of us residing there that keep the Earth alive and green. It's really hard to find a good young adult novel. That's the genre I read most. However, it is also the one that displeases me most, because almost all of its books contain the same repetitive, tediuos and boring story that it's focused on a chicl\u00e9 teenage romance. Neal Shusterman has done that weird thing: he wrote a young adult book that doesn't fit into that category; whose characters are atractive and well-developed. An unpredictable and adventurous first book on a series. I'm a huge fan of this author. Ever since the Unwind Distology finished, I\u00bfve wanted to read more from Shusterman -- and so I did. I started with Bruiser , and it became one of the most wonderful stories I've read. And then I picked Everlost up, thinking it wouldn't be as good as Bruiser . Once again, I was wrong. What I like about Shusterman is how well he knows what's he's writing about. His books handle very polemic and serious matters, but he knows exactly how to give you a new sort of perspective with his stories. He provides us with reflexions about life and death. There are mysteries in Everlost. Some of them are wonderful, and others scary. They should all be explored, though- perhaps that's why we're here: to experience the good and the bad that Everlost has to offer. Credit for: One: Creativity and originality. Life and Death. What happens when we die?, \u00bfwhere do we go? That's something I hadn't read before. Two: Main Characters. I loved Allie, Nick and Lief, though they don't compare to Connor, Risa and Lev. What I like about them is the fact they're not completely good or bad people. They're all in a intermedial point, where you don't know whether they'll become the villains or the heros. Three: The story of Everlost is nostalgic, but also moving and funny, because its characters are kids. Kids who are struggling with the place they find themselves at. It can be said, then, that Everlost is heaven...for the places that deserve a share of forever. It might be disturbing to read about dead children who are trying to get their lives back, but Everlost is more than that: it is a imaginitive story about what might lie between life and death; a thought-provoking, memorable and magical book. ...more Actual Rating: 3 stars! For the first half of this book I wasn't really enjoying it. I was just kind of reading and hoping I would start enjoying it more soon. I'm really glad I finished this and did not give up on it. This book reminded me of Percy Jackson and the Lighting Theif, with the quests and adventurous feel to the story. It also reminded me of Shusterman's Unwind series. I really liked the Unwind series but I was not happy with how similar it felt to this series. Nick, Allie, and Leif re Actual Rating: 3\u00bd stars! For the first half of this book I wasn't really enjoying it. I was just kind of reading and hoping I would start enjoying it more soon. I'm really glad I finished this and did not give up on it. This book reminded me of Percy Jackson and the Lighting Theif, with the quests and adventurous feel to the story. It also reminded me of Shusterman's Unwind series. I really liked the Unwind series but I was not happy with how similar it felt to this series. Nick, Allie, and Leif reminded me of Risa, Connor, and Lev. And even the pacing of the story felt similar to Unwind to me. So yeah, this was my main annoyance with the book. I kind of like the side characters in this book more than the main characters, to be honest. They were more interesting to me. And I really became wrapped up in the story when we meet (view spoiler) [ The McGill. He was so creepy and fascinating! I was completely surprised by the twist of him being Mary's brother but I absolutely love it!! I'm a bit surprised he seems like he's making an effort to be a decent guy and is helping Allie. I kind of thought he would just disappear and reemerge sometime in the next book, so it'll be interesting to see what role he plays in the next one. (hide spoiler) ] Speaking of Mary, daaaamn. I love the character transformation she makes throughout this book. Little by little we learn more about her and...let's just say the next book should be good. I was also a bit surprised by what happens to Leif, but it definitely makes sense and I'm glad it happened. He was kind of getting on my nerves there at the end lol. I was pretty nervous I would have no interest in continuing this series (especially since I bought the whole box set before reading the first one) but I liked this. The idea of Everlost is very good. I've even caught myself thinking randomly if I'd be satisfied spending eternity wearing the outfit I picked for the day lmao. I definitely liked this enough to continue but not quite yet. ...more Wow, this one took me by surprise. I've read Neal Shusterman before, but that didn't leave me prepared for this. There are lots of books out there that have takes on the afterlife, but I think this one is my favorite so far. There's a sense of mystery and discovery that some other great afterlife versions lack. By the end of the book, I didn't feel like I knew everything about the afterlife, but that I was willing to keep reading to find out more. One of the author blurbs on the book describes i Wow, this one took me by surprise. I've read Neal Shusterman before, but that didn't leave me prepared for this. There are lots of books out there that have takes on the afterlife, but I think this one is my favorite so far. There's a sense of mystery and discovery that some other great afterlife versions lack. By the end of the book, I didn't feel like I knew everything about the afterlife, but that I was willing to keep reading to find out more. One of the author blurbs on the book describes it as beautifully written, and it truly is. A great cast of characters, and a storyline that is both satisfying and leaves me wanting more. This is how to write the first book in a series! ...more Now, I do not usual have any interest in books that start off with \"so our protagonist is dead\" because existential angst featuring teens is more drama than I can possibly find entertainment value in BUT if you're gonna give me a mystery land and the characters problems beyond being deceased, then you have my attention! 3.5 stars An interesting spin on the afterlife from a teen perspective. The protagonists are stuck in a kind of in between place. Well written and the teen heroes are less annoying and better written than many others I've read. Their decisions for the most part make sense. I enjoyed it but think I would have liked it more when I was 12;) 3.5 stars Plot- 7/10 Characters- 7/10 Writing- 7.5/10 World Building- 9.5/10 TOTAL- 7.4/10 Quickie Review (no spoilers)- Neal Shusterman wowed me with Unwind. I seriously loved that book; the action, the great characters, and the scary, almost 1984-esque world building captivated me. So I went into Everlost with very high expectations, and I expected Neal Shusterman to deliver again. I was disappointed. Now, 3.5 stars is by no means bad. But I guess I was expecting a bit more from the same author who 3.5 stars Plot- 7/10 Characters- 7/10 Writing- 7.5/10 World Building- 9.5/10 TOTAL- 7.4/10 Quickie Review (no spoilers)- Neal Shusterman wowed me with Unwind. I seriously loved that book; the action, the great characters, and the scary, almost 1984-esque world building captivated me. So I went into Everlost with very high expectations, and I expected Neal Shusterman to deliver again. I was disappointed. Now, 3.5 stars is by no means bad. But I guess I was expecting a bit more from the same author who wrote Unwind. I think the biggest problem for me with this book was that I am NOT part of the target audience for this book. Basically, I'm too old to be reading it. The number one issue I had with this book was the juvenility (is that a word?) of a number of factors. To start with, the writing was juvenile. The sentences were simple, a bit choppy, and the sentence structure was lacking in variety. Even though the main characters are 14-15, the almost childish writing lent itself to 11-12 year old readers, and for me, it kind of detracted from the book. While we're on the topic of writing, another thing that really got to me was the narrating. Now, I had a friendly argument with another person who I was reading this with (Everlost was a buddy read with 3-4 other people), but one of the problems I had was the narrator. In my opinion, the narrator's job is very much like that of a sports umpire in that their job is to do their job and nothing else. The less attention is paid to you, the better. In a buddy read discussion, I brought up the narrator of Gone by Michael Grant as a comparison. The narrator of Gone simply tells the story. The narrator never mentions or introduces himself/herself, and focuses entirely on the characters of the novel. This helps to make the reader feel very close to the characters and as if they are in the story with them. However, the narrator of Everlost was a bit more... shall we say, prominent. The narrator was almost like a storyteller in that his/her presence was noticeable, and I as a reader could tell that someone was actually telling us the story. I found this to detract from the book, as I felt more detached from the characters and their journeys with a more in-your-face narrator. Now, this is PURELY personal preference. Other people who read this with me liked the narrating style of this book. It just didn't work for me. Another minor problem that I had with the narrating was that the character perspective changed sometimes without any warning or notice. Usually there's some kind of page break when the perspective changes, but in this book, the narrator would kind of jump back and forth between the thoughts of different characters in a particular scene without any warning. It was a bit disorienting and a bit confusing. The other issue I had with the book was the characters. Nick was practically useless throughout most of the book. He was just... there to pis off Allie with his stubbornness and his naivety. He finally did something about 250 pages in, and at the end, he AT LAST seemed to find a true purpose for himself. Hopefully this leads to a lot of character development in the next book. Allie REALLY annoyed me early on in the book. So she ignores the warnings of Mary to go find some creepy dude named HAUNTER (warning bell number 1) and drags her friends along with her. She's stupid enough to believe the HAUNTER will give her what she wants and let her go, EVEN THOUGH no one has returned from a visit to his lurking place. She gets her friends trapped and then has the NERVE to beg Mary to essentially sacrifice her hundreds of kids to attempt a futile rescue of her friends. Wow. She redeemed herself at the end, though, so that's what matters. Mary was an interesting character, though I have no idea why she so strongly insists on people staying in Everlost. She figures to be a major part of the second book, but I question her motives. Why is it so important for her to lead people in Everlost? Why can't she just \"get where she's going\" too? Hmm. I thought the McGill was a good villain- smart enough, complex, and thoroughly disgusting. (view spoiler) [ I thought his conversion to nice Mikey was a bit quick and hard to believe, so we'll see where that leads. (hide spoiler) ] The plot was excruciatingly slow for the majority of the book. Really, it was sluggish and slow for the first 250 pages. The last 50 pages were, however, exciting and full of twists. And you know what they say. It's not how you start, it's how you finish. And even though Everlost wasn't consistently plotted, it certainly finished strong. I want more action and drama in the next book. The BEST part of this book was easily the world building. If there's one thing Neal Shusterman is good at, it's creating a complex, detail-oriented world. He did it in Unwind, and he did it in Everlost. The idea of a world trapped between life and death was really interesting, and some of the details (the dead spots, the skinjacking, the Chinese restaurants [LOL!], and the crossing buildings/vehicles) were all really interesting, and my curiosity about this world was what kept me reading. I also enjoyed the little tidbits from Mary's book at the end of each chapter- they were a fun way of slowly unraveling the details of Shusterman's created world. I think that the main reason why I didn't enjoy Everlost as much as I wanted to was that I wasn't the target audience for this book. The book as a whole struck me as a bit juvenile, but I could see how it would appeal to readers slightly younger than me. Even though Everlost began with a whimper, and even though I did find that there were numerous flaws, it did end strongly, and left me with enough curiosity as to what will happen next that I might just end up reading the second book. ...more wow, I think I may have to come back and re-review. This is one that kind of sinks in. I would read a part and think \"what the HECK did I just read?\" but then I'd read another book or go about my day - but it would keep popping into my head - where the story was going, who the McGill was....just all sorts of random thoughts. It's a great story, just not at all like anything I've read before or what I thought it would be. but I know I liked it Book Review by Sam May Death. It is one concept that quiets, that disturbs and is a source of anxiety for many. Cultures have each made distinct views on death from reincarnation to spending eternity in the Underworld. Nick, a pessimistic fourteen-year-old, knows these ideas very well, but he never had an opinion of his own. In Everlost, by Neal Shusterman, both Nick and Allie experience death for themselves; they throw each other off the right track and end up in a mid-zone--Everlost. After und Book Review by Sam May Death. It is one concept that quiets, that disturbs and is a source of anxiety for many. Cultures have each made distinct views on death from reincarnation to spending eternity in the Underworld. Nick, a pessimistic fourteen-year-old, knows these ideas very well, but he never had an opinion of his own. In Everlost, by Neal Shusterman, both Nick and Allie experience death for themselves; they throw each other off the right track and end up in a mid-zone--Everlost. After understanding some of this world, both characters simply want to be where they belong. Unfortunately, they can't stay in the living world long or actually be alive, but they also cannot reach the fullness of death, so they both try to settle into a place inhabited by many misplaced souls--a reminiscence of the Twin Towers. Then Allie sees that there is more than the mindless routines the other souls had fallen into, bringing herself and Nick into worse danger. While Everlost was intriguing and captivating with its characters and themes, the plot made the book less desirable. This book is certainly worth reading, but it also wasn\u2019t the best fantasy novel I\u2019ve ever read. As a whole, the novel was very character oriented, focusing on the characters, their changes or their lack of changes. The first two major changes occur because of a very direct event. Lief and Nick are both trapped inside of barrels filled with pickle brine. Lief found a state where he \u201cfelt as if he was the entire universe, and nothing, at the same time. So glorious was this sensation of timelessness\u201d (pg. 141). He was able to find total peace and contentment while he was previously bratty, self-focused and annoyed. Nick was changed as well, but he found something much different. He \u201ccame to realize that he had spent far too much time complaining and worrying\u2026. If he ever managed to get out of that barrel, he knew he would be a better person\u201d (pg. 164). The book also goes on to explain that, because of this, he became less fearful--if not fearless--and bold in his actions. The last and most interesting character was a minor antagonist called the McGill. He says, \u201c\u2018But I\u2019d rather play it safe. I was a monster for thirty years, so I\u2019d say I need thirty years of good deeds to wipe the slate clean.\u2019\u201d (pg. 305). The McGill had literally been in the form of a monster for thirty years but had been forced into changing back to his original state--a normal, pre-teen boy. After his physical transformation, he had the internal change of heart that was described in the quote. Many characters in the story were developed and experienced many changes, making them realistic. Additionally, themes were intricately woven into the story by characters\u2019 thoughts and dialogue. One good example is portrayed in a conflict between Mary, the leader of the souls inhabiting the Twin Towers, and Nick. Mary believes that the children stuck in Everlost should simply stay where they are. The narrator says, \u201cMary knew it was the simple rule that every mother tells her child: If you're lost, stay put\u2026. just because you see a light, it doesn't give you permission to cross the street\u201d. Normally this logic would work. But all rules have exceptions. Just because a rule works in one place certainly doesn't mean that it stand in a completely different realm. Sometimes rules must be broken for progression to take place. Controversially, Nick decided that every person had the right to take the risk. The narrator, through Nick\u2019s dialogue, said, \u201c\u2018maybe that is your job\u2026. But now I think I have a job too. And my job is to help those same lost souls get where they're going\u2019\u201d. Nick was referring to Mary's job as aiding spirits to adjust to Everlost here, and this is the center of the conflict. He believed that he was meant to give the new-coming souls the knowledge to make the choice--that every person could choose, not just one. These and many more themes all contributed greatly to the story, inspiring thought and creating intrigue. Despite these good elements in the novel, the plot was the least interesting portion of the story. The main problem was that the center conflict was weak and almost forgettable. Finding what actually was the main problem was difficult because it's only really expressed in this quote. On page 25 it says, \u201cCertainly the boy called Lief had adjusted, so couldn't they? But then, that wasn't the real question. The question was, did they want to?\u201d. Overall, the issue is simply that Nick and Allie both wanted a place to be where they felt they belonged. This idea is lost beneath an onslaught of minor plots that take over the story. The largest one is saving Lief and Nick. After they were both captured by first the Haunter, which was Allie\u2019s fault, Allie goes to Mary and says, \u201c\u2018I know. I\u2019m sorry, and you can punish me in any way you like, but right now we have to rescue Lief and Nick\u2019\u201d (pg. 130). In response, Mary denies her and she is left with little to do. From this point, the issue actually becomes worse when Lief and Nick are taken from the Haunter to the McGill. After Allie goes aboard his ship, she realized that \u201cThe McGill did not play games, and truly intended to toss her over. The best she could do was to stall with hopes of finding some way to bargain for the lives of Nick and Lief\u201d (pg. 186). This is the subplot that really distracted the book from the main problem because too much of the book was devoted to it; had the main plot been brought up more in these subplots, it would\u2019ve been better. Overall, the plot itself was weak and definitely the least exciting part of the book. In all honesty, this really was a good book and definitely worth reading because of the characters and themes and is very worth reading, but, because of the plot issues, I still stand with my 3.5 rating of the novel. ...more Reviewed by Karin Perry for TeensReadToo.com Nick and Allie never would have met had their parents' cars not collided on a hairpin turn one day. If only Nick's parents had not hit a piece of steel lying in the road which caused them to blow a tire and head into the oncoming lane of traffic directly in the path of Allie's father. The accident happened so fast that neither felt any pain. The only recollection they have is of landing on the ground in the woods and feeling very tired. What happens to Reviewed by Karin Perry for TeensReadToo.com Nick and Allie never would have met had their parents' cars not collided on a hairpin turn one day. If only Nick's parents had not hit a piece of steel lying in the road which caused them to blow a tire and head into the oncoming lane of traffic directly in the path of Allie's father. The accident happened so fast that neither felt any pain. The only recollection they have is of landing on the ground in the woods and feeling very tired. What happens to children when they get knocked off track on their \"way to where they are going?\" Neal Shusterman has created the Everlost. A place where children end up if they get thrown off track on their way through the tunnel of light. When Nick and Allie landed in Everlost they slept for nine months before waking up. They were greeted by an eleven-year-old boy named Lief. Lief had been in the forest for a very long time; so long, in fact, he didn't actually remember his name. He made one up when the two asked him what it was. When you are in Everlost, you are considered an Afterlight. You have a slight glow about you all the time and you have to be very careful where you walk. You are only safe on things or places that have crossed over to Everlost. Otherwise the Afterlight will sink into the ground and go straight to the middle of the Earth and wait there until the end of time. Nick and Allie had to learn the tricks to living in Everlost pretty quickly if they wanted to stay aboveground. They had to get used to walking amongst the living and the feeling of things passing through them. Not knowing what else to do, Allie and Nick decided to go home and Lief decided to go with them since he hadn't left the forest in about a hundred years. They fashioned \"snow shoes\" to make it easier to walk on the ground so they wouldn't sink. When they got as far as New York, they found quite a surprise. Standing in the distance, glowing with the radiance of an Afterlight, stood the Twin Towers. They would forever stand in the Everlost because of the terrible tragedy that took place on 9-11-2001. There they met a large group of children living there and being cared for by a young lady named Mary Hightower. Mary Hightower considered herself the authority of all things in Everlost. She authored many books on different subjects in order to assist new Afterlights in making the transition from the living world. Nick and Allie had different opinions of Mary. Nick almost immediately fell in love with her; Allie considered most of the things she said malarkey. Eventually, Allie decided to go her own way and convinced Nick and Lief to come with her. It didn't turn out to be a very good idea. While they were searching for someone they thought might be able to teach them new skills to use, they met with some mean people. Nick and Lief were sealed in old pickle barrels that were still filled with the brine and then taken prisoner by the monster of Everlost, the McGill. After some clever thinking on Allie's part and Mary showing up in the Hindenburg, the McGill is overthrown and many Afterlights are rescued. Everyone plans to go back to the Twin Towers until Nick makes a very important discovery. He thinks he knows how to \"get people to where they are going.\" This doesn't sit well with Mary. She likes her role as caretaker of the lost souls and doesn't want them leaving. This puts Nick and Mary on the opposite ends of the issue. Meanwhile, Allie is content and the McGill receives redemption. Neal Shusterman has created a never-before-seen world that includes adventure and fantasy. The reader won't want the story to end. EVERLOST wraps up nicely, yet there could easily be a sequel. ...more Reread - 6/19/15 I don't have much to add on this reread. I enjoyed it as much the second time around. Having finished all three, it was good to see what a command Shusterman had over his overall story and characters from the very start. The introduction of each major character also gives the spine and motive of that character. Its all very well thought out and extremely well done. I've read a bunch of Shusterman since first having read this, and I still think this series is his best work. ORIGINA Reread - 6/19/15 I don't have much to add on this reread. I enjoyed it as much the second time around. Having finished all three, it was good to see what a command Shusterman had over his overall story and characters from the very start. The introduction of each major character also gives the spine and motive of that character. Its all very well thought out and extremely well done. I've read a bunch of Shusterman since first having read this, and I still think this series is his best work. ORIGINAL REVIEW Here's a kid's book that dabbles a bit in epistemology, the foundations of faith, and the creation of legends, and all without being either ponderous or pretentious. The basic story is pretty simple. Allie wants to go home. She needs to go home to find out whether her parents died in the same car accident that she died in. She and Nick, a kid in the other car in the crash, wound up in a world that's not the living world and not truly the afterlife. They saw the light at the end of the tunnel, but never got there and are now in a world that shadows the living world, and is populated only with lost kids from about 5 to 15 years old. Most of this world is insubstantial, ghostly if you will, and they are in constant danger of sinking through the insubstantiality and getting sucked into the center of the Earth. But some dead places have strong substance to them in this world. That would include places where people actually died, and then things that got killed in the real world to which people had a strong attachment. (Pompeii would be a good example of the first. And a destroyed 57 Chevy convertible might be a good example of the latter.) The kids don't really know how this world works, and so they learn about it mostly through experience and rumor. This constantly creates the question of how a character knows what he thinks he knows. And then there is the overriding question of whether this place is there eternity, or whether its possible either to go back to the living world, or go on to the next (assuming there is a next). And out of both of these concerns come the legends of monsters: The McGill, The Haunter, The Sky Witch, and finally the Chocolate Ogre. The writing is crisp and fast paced. There are parts of the book that are terrifying, even though these kids can no longer be physically hurt. And the characters are distinct and fairly well drawn. Overall, I thought this a very solid book, and I'm looking forward to the rest of the series. ...more I've gone back and forth and back and forth on my rating for this one. The story is a three, but it's Shusterman and his use of language to evoke feelings is so well done. The writing is wonderful; some of the descriptions of things in Everlost brought tears to my eyes. I want to like it more than I do. So, for that reason, I'm giving it the benefit of the doubt with a four star rating. This one starts out with a bang, but then winds down and meanders for a long time. I found myself finding lots o I've gone back and forth and back and forth on my rating for this one. The story is a three, but it's Shusterman and his use of language to evoke feelings is so well done. The writing is wonderful; some of the descriptions of things in Everlost brought tears to my eyes. I want to like it more than I do. So, for that reason, I'm giving it the benefit of the doubt with a four star rating. This one starts out with a bang, but then winds down and meanders for a long time. I found myself finding lots of things to do instead of finish the book. I've read Shusterman before and was expecting something much more compelling. Allie and Nick are in a car accident and wake up in Everlost, a place for those who don't go into the light and move on. And I think perhaps the story rolls out so slowly because it is at the pace of the characters awakening to the world as they now see it. They don't really know exactly what's going on or quite where they are and it's the story of how they learn that makes up most of this book. The mythology of Everlost is well developed and makes sense as it's presented. The rules on how/why an object from the living world can be in Everlost is explained clearly. The rules on how life is there; sinking, sleeping, breathing, etc are also rational. There don't seem to be any plot holes from any of this which makes the story stronger as I wasn't busy thinking, no wait, that doesn't seem right. The book excerpts from Mary and later from Allie added a lot to the story, were amusing and also moved the plot forward by presenting some of the rules of Everlost and those characters thoughts. Shusterman writes great characters. Each one is clearly defined and the different ways that they grow and change are interesting. He makes you care about the characters, the things they are hoping for and there are philosophical questions in here, too, but in such a way that you aren't hit over the head with them. The last few chapters do ramp up the story somewhat and definitely made me eager to read the next in the series. So, while it's a bit slow going, I'd still say put it on your to-read list. ...more I would probably give this 2.5 stars. It was...odd. Very odd. I think what probably bothered me is that it truly is meant for a juvenile audience and yet some disturbingly dark things are going on here. The premise of the story is a little like Peter Pan's lost boys. Children who are supposed to make it into the after life are knocked off course and sent into the land of Everlost. Nick and Allie are new to Everlost, and they discover it is a strange place where they may be doomed to spend eterni I would probably give this 2.5 stars. It was...odd. Very odd. I think what probably bothered me is that it truly is meant for a juvenile audience and yet some disturbingly dark things are going on here. The premise of the story is a little like Peter Pan's lost boys. Children who are supposed to make it into the after life are knocked off course and sent into the land of Everlost. Nick and Allie are new to Everlost, and they discover it is a strange place where they may be doomed to spend eternity in a life of repeated routines. And then Nick discovers how he can free himself and others. But will he be stopped before he can accomplish his task? So what troubled me? Some of the disturbingly dark things were treated as you might expect with a juvenile novel. And quite frankly, \"skin jacking\", i.e., possession, isn't really a juvenile subject. I wasn't afraid while I listened along to the story, but I cringed at the thought of a young person reading about possession in such a light hearted way. And I guess that's what prevents me from wanting to read more. I admit to some curiousity as to the character arc of two of the main players in the story, but when a book is aimed at what I think are basically children and then treats such subjects like they are everyday/funny/juvenile, I'm a little put off. I probably would not have read the book had it been an actual \"horror\" novel. It's rare that I read horror stories, and only mild gothic ones at that. If Shusterman wanted to write that story, that's his perogative. Actually, I wish he wold have done that, and then marketed to the appropriate audience. There is nothing wrong with Shusterman's story telling ability. There is nothing overtly offensive, I suppose. It just didn't sit quite right with me, and so I don't think I'll be finishing this series. ...more For starters, let me say that 1) I listened to the audiobook narrated by Nick Podehl (whose voice acted as a great soporific as I was trying to drive across the US with my family - thankfully the rock we took in the windshield outside of Denver kept me awake) and 2) I'm not the biggest fan of children's books, and this is definitely a children's book. I found the central conceit intriguing: Those who die, but don't get \"where they're going\" find themselves in limbo. The rules are different here. For starters, let me say that 1) I listened to the audiobook narrated by Nick Podehl (whose voice acted as a great soporific as I was trying to drive across the US with my family - thankfully the rock we took in the windshield outside of Denver kept me awake) and 2) I'm not the biggest fan of children's books, and this is definitely a children's book. I found the central conceit intriguing: Those who die, but don't get \"where they're going\" find themselves in limbo. The rules are different here. Pain doesn't exist, adults are nowhere to be seen, and fortune cookies *always* tell the truth with 100% accuracy. The execution (pardon the pun), however, I found lacking. The book was slow at the start. Too slow, with too many stops and asides to explain the setting and the rules of Everlost. I really didn't feel strongly about the characters, except for a minor character by the name of Pinhead, who seemed the most \"layered\" character of the bunch. Frankly, I'd love to hear a story set in Everlost from Pinhead's POV. I wanted perspective, so I asked two of my kids, age 16 and 13, what they would give it on a 5 point scale and was asked if they could use a 10 point scale. \"Sure,\" I said. My 13 year old gave it a 7. Not a ringing endorsement from him (he's more of a biblioholic than I am!). My 16 year old declined to give it a score, but said \"It's pretty funny, but I can't tell if it was trying to be funny or not.\" \". . from the mouths of babes . . .\" ...more 3.5 Stars \u201cThere are mysteries in Everlost. Some of them are wonderful, and others scary. They should all be explored, though- perhaps that's why we're here: to experience the good and the bad that Everlost has to offer.\u201d Everlost is a great story full of imagination and an abundance of different characters including Pirates, Collectors of kids, a monster and a haunter. This is a great book for middle grade and young adults alike. There are so many interesting things and action throughout it kee 3.5 Stars \u201cThere are mysteries in Everlost. Some of them are wonderful, and others scary. They should all be explored, though- perhaps that's why we're here: to experience the good and the bad that Everlost has to offer.\u201d Everlost is a great story full of imagination and an abundance of different characters including Pirates, Collectors of kids, a monster and a haunter. This is a great book for middle grade and young adults alike. There are so many interesting things and action throughout it keeps your attention. Neil Shusterman has an uncanny imagination and the new world he has brought to life is a very different take on what happens after you die. Nick and Allie didn\u2019t quite make it to where they were supposed to go after they died, instead they end up in Everlost an in-between place. Lief has been alone in the forest they wake up in and bands with them for a journey to discover the mysteries of Everlost. It is interesting all the different things that end up in Everlost things that were once loved and died or were ruined including a few significant disasters of history. I really enjoyed how the author let us in on some of the mysteries of the world by reading excerpts from books written by Mary Hightower self-proclaimed expert on Everlost. This is different from most MG/YA books in that the world is one between life and death but it is an adventure all the same. ...more I have spent two days wandering through Neal Shusterman's latest two novels, and I am still a bit lost in them. I read them out of order, reading his newest book, Unwind, first. Enjoying that book so much, I wondered whether or not Everlost would disappoint me. Shusterman admits that he is a weird man who writes about weird things, and no one does it better, I should have trusted him more. When two teens, Nick and Allie, die in the same car accident, their journey into the white light of the after I have spent two days wandering through Neal Shusterman's latest two novels, and I am still a bit lost in them. I read them out of order, reading his newest book, Unwind, first. Enjoying that book so much, I wondered whether or not Everlost would disappoint me. Shusterman admits that he is a weird man who writes about weird things, and no one does it better, I should have trusted him more. When two teens, Nick and Allie, die in the same car accident, their journey into the white light of the afterlife is interrupted and they are plunged into the world of ghosts, Everlost. Just like Allie does, I thought of Wendy and the Lost Boys is a macabre version of Peter Pan. Everlost is a place full of rules and mysteries and discovering how to \"survive\" in Everlost is Nick and Allie's challenge. Even though they are dead, there is always something worse... The book started to drag about a third of the way in, but it picked up fast, and never lost its momentum. Everlost is a great book about friendship, honor, and destiny. If you loved Unwind or Gabrielle Zevin's Elsewhere, Everlost is your kind of book. ...more If you look at this book as having a new, creative setting (earth for the lost souls of children who somehow got knocked out of the tunnel after they died) it's a cute story. However, if you read the book and think it's proposing doctrine about the afterlife, you're not going to like it. And I admit that as a parent it was hard to read about the spirits of children sinking to the center of earth where they would be trapped until the earth exploded. Surely God isn't as disorganized or uncaring to If you look at this book as having a new, creative setting (earth for the lost souls of children who somehow got knocked out of the tunnel after they died) it's a cute story. However, if you read the book and think it's proposing doctrine about the afterlife, you're not going to like it. And I admit that as a parent it was hard to read about the spirits of children sinking to the center of earth where they would be trapped until the earth exploded. Surely God isn't as disorganized or uncaring to let large amounts of children just wander the earth getting trapped by such things. Ditto for the evil spirits of bad children who trap people in pickle barrels or hang them upside down in pirate ships. But taken as a purely fictional setting--very creative. ...more Ali and Nick collide in a car crash that kills them both and they find themselves unexpected companions in Everlost, the place where children go after they die. They soon meet Leaf, who's been there too long. The adventure takes off as they must learn the strange rules of this world and protect themselves from not so nice residents. This is a wonderful adventure, that I really enjoyed. It was more MG and therefore not my preferred genre. I found the kiss scene to be not so compelling, and the pa Ali and Nick collide in a car crash that kills them both and they find themselves unexpected companions in Everlost, the place where children go after they die. They soon meet Leaf, who's been there too long. The adventure takes off as they must learn the strange rules of this world and protect themselves from not so nice residents. This is a wonderful adventure, that I really enjoyed. It was more MG and therefore not my preferred genre. I found the kiss scene to be not so compelling, and the pacing was a little slow for me at times. However, this was a delightful adventure with characters who grow and encourage the reader to cheer for them. I really loved the end of this book and love the twists. ...more This book is about Allie and Nick journey through the world of everlost. They die in a car accident only they don\u2019t reach where there are supposed to and instead get stuck in the eternal world of everlost. First thing to keep in mind while reading the book is that one shouldn\u2019t compare it to unwind, or you would be bitterly disappointed. It's nowhere near it in terms of emotional depth and characters. But the book in itself has a very very interesting concept. Neal Shusterman is a very creative a This book is about Allie and Nick journey through the world of everlost. They die in a car accident only they don\u2019t reach where there are supposed to and instead get stuck in the eternal world of everlost. First thing to keep in mind while reading the book is that one shouldn\u2019t compare it to unwind, or you would be bitterly disappointed. It's nowhere near it in terms of emotional depth and characters. But the book in itself has a very very interesting concept. Neal Shusterman is a very creative author, and I loved his idea of everlost. Twin towers crossing over inn this world, the sinking to the bottom and even McGill\u2019s character were interesting.Loved the climax. Overall quite an enjoyable read, and I am planning on reading the next part. ...more I've had this on my shelf for a while now and I'm glad for the Pick Five thread in my YA group, otherwise I would have probably just kept pushing this off. I really liked it. Oddly enough I wasn't quite into Mary, but I automatically felt something for The McGill. I suppose that is backwards, but there seemed to be something vulnerable about him. I also really really liked Lief. And Nick. Great book. I can't wait to read the next one.<---C>Neal Shusterman</---C>", "Title": "Everlost"},
