{"Comments": "I must have larceny in my heart because whenever I see an armored car, I always have that brief moment of idle thought where I wonder how much cash it\u2019s carrying and if I could come up with a plan to rob one and get away with it. Apparently I should have been born in the Charlestown area of Boston because hijacking armored trucks used to be a major pastime of some it\u2019s residents. Set in the mid-\u201990s, Doug MacRay is a former hockey star who blew his chance at going pro and is now a recovering alco I must have larceny in my heart because whenever I see an armored car, I always have that brief moment of idle thought where I wonder how much cash it\u2019s carrying and if I could come up with a plan to rob one and get away with it. Apparently I should have been born in the Charlestown area of Boston because hijacking armored trucks used to be a major pastime of some it\u2019s residents. Set in the mid-\u201990s, Doug MacRay is a former hockey star who blew his chance at going pro and is now a recovering alcoholic. He\u2019s also the brains of a crew that has had a good run of looting banks and armored cars. Doug is smart enough to realize that between the gentrification of Charlestown and the new anti-theft technologies being introduced that the days of old school armed robbery are numbered. Doug longs for something more than stealing and the Town lifestyle. However, his fellow thief Jem is determined to keep Doug around for good by getting him to start drinking with the boys again and pushing Doug to renew the relationship he used to have with Jem\u2019s sister. While robbing a bank,<---M> Doug\u2019s crew ends up taking the manager</---M>, Claire, as a hostage. Doug becomes infatuated with Claire, and starts following her around after the robbery. He eventually manages to worm his way into her life. He knows it\u2019s stupid, especially with eager FBI agent Frawley keeping tabs on her, but Doug has convinced himself that a life with Claire is the motivation he needs to finally get his act together and get out of Charlestown.<---F> This novel functions on two levels</---F>. Part of it is a razor sharp heist story with Doug and his crew trying to outwit Frawley and the cops. The other part is a character study of a guy struggling to break the old ties that are holding him back but can never quite manage to shake himself free. The backdrop is also interesting because Charlestown was once the home to various Irish mob connections and a hotbed of armed robbery, but now it's about to be changed forever by the coming of the yuppies. Setting it in the \u201890\u2019s, when both the cops and the smarter robbers realize that new technology is about to change their game forever also gave the story the feeling of being the end of an era. Great action, believable characters, solid writing and a rich setting made for one terrific crime novel. *A Few Notes About the Movie Version* Originally published as <+++>Prince of Thieves</+++> , this is the second crime novel adaptation that Ben Affleck has done as a screenwriter and director. While I didn\u2019t like it quite as much as Gone, Baby, Gone , it\u2019s still a very good flick with great performances. Affleck has a knack for making the changes necessary to condense a novel into a film while keeping the tone and major themes intact. He also showed a surprising flair for big action sequences, including one of the more exciting chase scenes I\u2019ve seen in recent memory. You won\u2019t see a better movie with a van load of nuns toting automatic weapons. ...more <+++>Prince of Thieves</+++> , the 2004 heist novel by <---A>Chuck Hogan</---A> that served as source material for The Town starring Ben Affleck and Jeremy Renner, is the best book I've given up on and had to rate with one star since joining Goodreads. It does not make me a happy man to do this and would recommend the book to anyone hooked by the synopsis who hasn't seen the movie. I have seen the movie and trying my damnedest, could find no compelling reason to stay in this taxicab. Let me off here, driver. Hogan's writ Prince of Thieves , the 2004 heist novel by Chuck Hogan that served as source material for The Town starring Ben Affleck and Jeremy Renner, is the best book I've given up on and had to rate with one star since joining Goodreads. It does not make me a happy man to do this and would recommend the book to anyone hooked by the synopsis who hasn't seen the movie. I have seen the movie and trying my damnedest, could find no compelling reason to stay in this taxicab. Let me off here, driver. Hogan's writing crackles, his research is impeccable and his attention to detail knocked my socks off. The author earned his lunch money here. Of course, I love reading a good caper and the novel takes off like a shot with a bank heist in the shadow of Fenway Park in Boston. In the middle of this, Doug looked at the manager lying behind the second teller's cage. He knew things about her. Her name was Claire Keesey. She drove a plum-colored Saturn coupe with a useless rear spoiler and a happy-face bumper sticker that said Breathe! She lived alone, and when it was warm enough, she spent her lunch hours in the community gardens along the nearby Back Bay Fens. He knew these things because he had been following her, off and on, for weeks. Hogan does his homework with everything in, off and around the high-powered hold-ups. But when the masks come off, the story sets off on a slow train to Nowhere, getting mired in boilerplate melodrama about a criminal with a moral conscience who can be redeemed by the power of love, in this case, a bank teller his crew actually took hostage. The main character, in addition to being stuck with one of the blandest names in the English language -- Doug -- is a Gary Stu through and through, the sort of character Chuck Hogan might imagine himself being if he had to earn a living outside the law. Doug is passive, a nice guy, observing all the animal life in the jungle, thinking ahead to his next step, but thinking about things is not a substitute for doing things. In between the heists, there's a lot, and I mean a lot , of jocular male bonding in the Old Neighborhood, with fighting Irish slamming back beers and talking about the good times. If you've seen one bar in the Old Neighborhood tale, you've seen them all. I had to stop reading because I felt I'd seen this all before. Same old self-destructive childhood pals, same old girlfriend who wants to get back together, same old aspirations to break free to someplace better. Same old, same old. Hogan's a good writer, I just wish I didn't have to read his book. Over three days, I kept trying to plow through Prince of Thieves , which has the unpleasant characteristic of being about so little and at 400 pages, taking so incredibly long to finish. Abandoned. ...more Before he was a terrible actor and a mediocre comedian, Dane Cook was an above-average comedian. Back then, he had a funny bit about what all men wanted: a pet monkey, and to participate in a heist. I\u2019ve never wanted a monkey; I\u2019m too realistic for that. They smell, they fling their feces, and there\u2019s always the possibility they will tear the flesh from your still-living face. A heist, though\u2026That\u2019s a little more interesting. There is something undeniably seductive about the planning, intricacy, Before he was a terrible actor and a mediocre comedian, Dane Cook was an above-average comedian. Back then, he had a funny bit about what all men wanted: a pet monkey, and to participate in a heist. I\u2019ve never wanted a monkey; I\u2019m too realistic for that. They smell, they fling their feces, and there\u2019s always the possibility they will tear the flesh from your still-living face. A heist, though\u2026That\u2019s a little more interesting. There is something undeniably seductive about the planning, intricacy, and payoff of a well-executed heist. That said, I won\u2019t be quitting my day job. Usually, when I think of the heist genre, I think of movies. Heists lend themselves to films, from great movies (<---B> Heat </---B>), chatty movies ( Heist ), confusing movies ( Mission: Impossible ), and disappointing movies ( The Score ). When I picked up Chuck Hogan\u2019s Prince of Thieves , I wondered if the heist genre could translate to the page. The answer: sort of. I\u2019m calling Prince of Thieves a heist story because \u2013 despite Hogan\u2019s aspirations for a psychological thriller \u2013 it relies on every heist clich\u00e9 in the book. It has a crook with a heart of gold named Doug MacRay. Doug was a former hockey star who threw away his career because of alcohol and a bad temper. Now he\u2019s in AA and there are numerous scenes in the book with portentous discussions about addiction (rather than adding complexity, these scenes were awfully preachy). Oh, did I forget to mention this about Doug? He\u2019s looking for one last score . His band of merry men include the psychopath (Jem), the tech guy (Dez), and the fourth leg, who\u2019s there to balance the table (Gloansy). These guys are childhood friends from the Charlestown area of Boston, which forces you to compare this book, unfairly to Dennis Lehane\u2019s Mystic River . According to Hogan, the Charlestown area, or \u201cThe Town\u201d as it\u2019s called by its untraveled citizens, is the armored car and bank robbery capitol of America. Or at least it was in the 90s, when this book is set (in case you forget it\u2019s set in the 90s, there are dozens of 90s pop culture references strewn throughout). Facing off against this crew is \u2013 you got it \u2013 a dogged law enforcement officer. In this case, it\u2019s FBI Agent Adam Frawley. Also thrown into the mix is a local gang leader who runs a floral shop, and Jem\u2019s sister, Krista, who is in love with Doug. Also, there\u2019s Clare Keesey. She\u2019s the branch manager at a bank that the crew hits early in the book. They take her as a hostage, and then let her go. And then Doug starts dating her. This isn\u2019t really a clich\u00e9, I suppose, it\u2019s just ridiculous. Prince of Thieves goes to great lengths trying to make us believe this relationship, but it fails. You know how they say you can\u2019t start a relationship based on a lie? Well, that\u2019s true, especially when the lie is \u201cNo, I totally didn\u2019t take you hostage in that bank heist I pulled off!\u201d Unfortunately, this relationship is the bedrock of the book, because it\u2019s where Doug gets his motivations. Accordingly, Doug\u2019s actions towards the end of the book veer towards \u201chuh?\u201d As if this wasn\u2019t bad enough, Hogan half heartedly adds a further complication to the Doug/Clare relationship. That comes from Agent Frawley, who decides he wants to date Clare as well. Insert eye roll. Overall, I really disliked the way that Hogan treated Frawley in the book. He\u2019s supposed to be the hero, or at least, a likeable foil. Instead, the things he does makes him an ass. Part of his catalogue of misdeeds includes breaking and entering, illegal search and seizure, and dating a material witness. The only thing he doesn\u2019t do is use the US Constitution as a napkin to wipe his mouth after breakfast at a local Dunkin\u2019 Donuts. The defense of a book like this is that it\u2019s supposed to be \u201cfun.\u201d Most of the time, when I hear that, I assume that \u201cfun\u201d is a euphemism for intellectual laziness, or dearth of creativity, or crap story punctuated by explosions. But Prince of Thieves isn\u2019t supposed to be fun, I don\u2019t think. It actually reaches for seriousness, darkness, and resonance; it just fails. That\u2019s not to say Prince of Thieves is without merits. (Though its title is without merit). The best character is The Town itself. Hogan invests a great deal of time explaining its history, geography, and effect on its residents. Some of the most fascinating scenes explores the gentrification of such an old, immigrant-based working class neighborhood. In those scenes, I would compare this favorably to Richard Price\u2019s Lush Life . Furthermore, Hogan is a talented writer. There are some groaner lines, to be sure, but he does a pretty good job with the dialogue, and I enjoyed the witty banter between the four old friends. I also appreciated the fact that Hogan didn\u2019t dwell on the last big score. There isn\u2019t a scene in which the main character lays everything out, and explains how they\u2019re going to have to simultaneously reroute the computers, switch out the tapes on the security cameras, and tango across a room full of laser beams. Instead, you don\u2019t find out how they\u2019re carrying out the heist until they\u2019re doing it. The heist story is a closed universe. It is a house already built. Once inside, you can change the furniture, paint the walls, add a deck, but you have to stay within the structure. That means one of two things: your protagonist is riding off to the sunset, or he\u2019s going to the grave. In Prince of Thieves , you can sense Chuck Hogan straining at these limitations, without ever managing to exceed them. ...more I prefer to read the book and then watch the movie, but sometimes when watching a movie my favorite title credit will flash onto the screen: based on a the book ABC by 123. \"There's a book?\" I always silently exclaim. If I like the movie--and sometimes if I don't like the movie--I'll seek out the book. I expected to like the movie the Town in a \"wow, this is a really bad movie but I like it\" sort of way. However, it turned out to be quite gripping and I really did like it. The book turned out to I prefer to read the book and then watch the movie, but sometimes when watching a movie my favorite title credit will flash onto the screen: based on a the book ABC by 123. \"There's a book?\" I always silently exclaim. If I like the movie--and sometimes if I don't like the movie--I'll seek out the book. I expected to like the movie the Town in a \"wow, this is a really bad movie but I like it\" sort of way. However, it turned out to be quite gripping and I really did like it. The book turned out to be even better. As the main character in the movie, Ben Affleck seems to have it all together: robbing the banks, romancing the kidnapped teller, keeping his bank robber friends in line, attending the AA meetings. However, the book's main character is much more doubtful and flawed. It's much more of an examination of character flaws through the recovering alcoholic lens than I expected. There were also some great descriptive passages, one of which I meant to excerpt here but forgot and returned the book. Like the movie, my expectations for the book were low and I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. ...more Fantastic crime thriller. Memorable characters galore and Hogan made me feel like I was a part of \"The Town.\" The raw emotion can be felt on every page. Excellent novel Crooks, thieves, heists, jobs, getaways, cuts, cops, drugs, temptations, and loves. Chuck Hogan\u2019s The Town has it all and more! A dark, suspenseful, action packed tale about friendship and loyalty in a world filled with crime, betrayal, and \u201cif only\u201d dreams. So far this year, no audio book has been able to hold my attention until this story read by\u2026.wait for it\u2026Mr. Donnie Wahlberg! The man has been in my life, heart, and ears for years, but this was just a brand new bag of love! It was kismet! Eff Crooks, thieves, heists, jobs, getaways, cuts, cops, drugs, temptations, and loves. Chuck Hogan\u2019s The Town has it all and more! A dark, suspenseful, action packed tale about friendship and loyalty in a world filled with crime, betrayal, and \u201cif only\u201d dreams. So far this year, no audio book has been able to hold my attention until this story read by\u2026.wait for it\u2026Mr. Donnie Wahlberg! The man has been in my life, heart, and ears for years, but this was just a brand new bag of love! It was kismet! Effing perfect! Let\u2019s face it the man was made to read, perform, and bring this Boston based book to life. :) I\u2019ll cop to it right now though, I might be a tiny bit (hehe) biased here. I\u2019m a life long New Kids on the Block fan, who was born and raised in Massachusetts. Yeah, alright, perhaps more than just a tiny bit biased. ;) haha\u2026. Mr. Wahlberg brought all of these characters\u2014Doug, Jem, Gloansy, Dez, Claire, Krista, and more\u2014to life with such force and energy. Each character came alive with different accents and voices. Jem\u2019s voice coiled in my gut with tension while Krista\u2019s creeped down my spine like nails on a chalkboard! Wahlberg dazzles here bringing Boston and Hogan\u2019s world alive. Some scenes left me breathless, not moving just waiting for every word. Hanging on his every word. I could not stop listening! The transition between discs was taut, suspenseful and addictive. Never stopped until I hit the end. To have Boston\u2019s own New Kid read this story, was hands down the best audio book experience in my life. ...more Engrossing. Engaging. Wonderful character development and dialogue. The ending is tragic/sad. I grieved and cried too much. STORY BRIEF: Doug\u2019s mother left or disappeared when Doug was in first grade. After that his father went to jail. Doug has lived with the Coughlans ever since. Doug went to jail for a year or so for beating up someone. Now he is 32. He robs banks and armored trucks with his friends, Jem Coughlan, Gloansy, and Dez. The book opens with a bank robbery. The guys are wearing masks. Engrossing. Engaging. Wonderful character development and dialogue. The ending is tragic/sad. I grieved and cried too much. STORY BRIEF: Doug\u2019s mother left or disappeared when Doug was in first grade. After that his father went to jail. Doug has lived with the Coughlans ever since. Doug went to jail for a year or so for beating up someone. Now he is 32. He robs banks and armored trucks with his friends, Jem Coughlan, Gloansy, and Dez. The book opens with a bank robbery. The guys are wearing masks. As they leave Doug takes the bank manager Claire with them. About an hour later he lets her go. Doug can\u2019t get Claire out of his mind. He follows her and watches her. Finally he takes a chance and talks to her. They go out together/date a few times. He wants to change his life and be with her. Frawley is the local bank robbery coordinator for the FBI. He believes the four guys are guilty of multiple robberies, but so far he can\u2019t prove anything. He and his guys follow them. He talks to Claire more than once. He too is having feelings for Claire, but they do not go out together. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: This is a tragedy. I cried a lot and hard afterwards. I don\u2019t know if I can recommend it unless you\u2019re up for that - grieving for someone who is good, who wants to do better, who is trying, but he doesn\u2019t know how. I fault his parents. They didn\u2019t give him love, support, and guidance. He made bad choices. He grieves for his mother. He grew up with no one loving him. The only time he felt peace, love, and acceptance was while on a job with his bank robber friends. This book reminds me a little of Romeo and Juliet, but modern, better, different. The lovers are from different worlds and can never be together. Even if Doug gave up his life of crime, there is a chance he would go to jail for past crimes. He can never tell Claire about his criminal activities, because she could be charged as an accomplice. He wants a life with Claire, someone good, not the types of people he grew up with and is surrounded by. I don\u2019t want to mislead by overstating the Romeo and Juliet comparison. Only a small amount of time is spent showing Doug and Claire together. Most of the time the story is about Doug, his thoughts, actions, and feelings. In his mind Claire is the focal point for change. Most of the story is enjoyable and engaging, with anticipation. It\u2019s the last half hour that is unsettling and becomes tragic. Doug believes the coming job will go bad, yet he continues with it. He makes choices which he knows will not be a happy ending. This story had wonderful character development. Wonderful dialogue. I was engrossed in the characters and the lives they lived. I felt part of it. I enjoyed this all the way through until the end. Excellent plotting and events. This author is a good storyteller. I was rooting for Doug. I wanted to see him change his life. The day after reading this, I\u2019m still crying. I don\u2019t like books that make me grieve and cry, so I\u2019m hoping I can get this out of my mind. I want to forget about it. It hurts. I suppose it makes one appreciate their own life more, not having problems from a criminal life. This was made into a movie called The Town with Ben Affleck which I did not see. I hear the movie had a happier ending, a different ending. NARRATOR: The narrator Richard Ferrone was excellent. At times he had a touch of Christian Slater to his voice. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 16 hrs and 9 mins. Swearing language: strong, including religious swear words. Sexual language: none. Sex scenes: one scene was referred to, no details shown. Setting: 1996 mostly Boston area, Massachusetts. Book copyright: 2004. Genre: relationships, crime, suspense, tragedy. Ending: Grief and sadness. ...more The worst part of this book was I had the movie tie-in cover so everytime I picked the thing up I had to look at Ben Affleck's face. Worse than his face (which is bad enough), but his profile, framed in some type of thought-provoking prose which, for me, is a disturbing image. Other than that, I thought this was a pretty good character-driven crime story, but it didn't have the hard edge I was hoping for. Characters were well developed for the most part, but were a little caricaturish and they l The worst part of this book was I had the movie tie-in cover so everytime I picked the thing up I had to look at Ben Affleck's face. Worse than his face (which is bad enough), but his profile, framed in some type of thought-provoking prose which, for me, is a disturbing image. Other than that, I thought this was a pretty good character-driven crime story, but it didn't have the hard edge I was hoping for. Characters were well developed for the most part, but were a little caricaturish and they lacked the depth and dimension to really make me care about them other than the central character, Doug McRay, so I never really felt much for them, especially Claire, who I really should have had feelings for, and Frawley, the FBI agent. Frawley was really the most upsetting character in the book for me because as an FBI agent, he was supposed to be \"the good guy\" and he was anything but. I don't mind crime stories from the point of view of the criminal and I don't mind when authors glamorize their villainous main characters, but I don't like it when the chief protaganist is someone working on the side of the law and the reasons why he's acting worse than the criminals aren't made clear. The robberies in the story were interesting to read about and well plotted, but they all came off too quickly. Yes, I'd recommend this book because it was entertaining and a fast read, but after everything's said and done, there really isn't much here. The best part of the book for me was that my impression of Ben Affleck is so different than the Doug MacRay charcter that I had no problem keeping images of Ben Affleck out of my mind while reading so the story was never tainted with thoughts of B.A. I actually liked Doug MacRay and, in case you can't tell, I'm not too crazy about Ben Affleck. ...more Yeah, I liked this. The writing was spry for the most part, a gold nugget of a phrase every other page or so made me smile throughout. Charlestown's hard, blue-collar roots are undergoing a gentrification and to his own surprise, so is bank robber Doug MacRay. Newly sober and newly burdened by a heavy conscience, he sees what his hard life of crime and dead-ends has done to him, and wants to change. Change comes in the form of bank manager/hostage, Claire. Pursuing her offers him new hope: she's Yeah, I liked this. The writing was spry for the most part, a gold nugget of a phrase every other page or so made me smile throughout. Charlestown's hard, blue-collar roots are undergoing a gentrification and to his own surprise, so is bank robber Doug MacRay. Newly sober and newly burdened by a heavy conscience, he sees what his hard life of crime and dead-ends has done to him, and wants to change. Change comes in the form of bank manager/hostage, Claire. Pursuing her offers him new hope: she's the ideal, that etheral something just out of his grasp, something pure he wishes he had, wishes he was. She has no clue of his real identity and Doug is able to form a a slow-moving romantic relationship with her as he tries to extract himself from his crew and thug lifestyle. Unfortunately, the FBI is hot on his trail. Agent Frawley was my favorite character, hard, singleminded, and unapologetic for it. But it's to Hogan's credit that Doug was so well-crafted, vulnerable even, that I rooted for him and not Frawley the whole way. Not the ending I wanted, and when Doug drank that beer something in me wailed, and I knew this wasn't gonna be pretty. ...more I seen this on my which list on amazon and had to get it!(I got the Version The Town movie cover paperback one) it's was only $3 and I could not pass it up... I was going for \"The Strain\" trilogy books (i only need book 2-3, Ihave the 1st on the E-book) but this and I had to get another thing while I was at it.. But boy am I glad I did! This was a riveting book. It had everything! Bank Robbery, Long time friends at the end of there friendships, A \" I Always Get My Man FBI Agent, Un-knowing beau I seen this on my which list on amazon and had to get it!(I got the Version The Town movie cover paperback one) it's was only $3 and I could not pass it up... I was going for \"The Strain\" trilogy books (i only need book 2-3, Ihave the 1st on the E-book) but this and I had to get another thing while I was at it.. But boy am I glad I did! This was a riveting book. It had everything! Bank Robbery, Long time friends at the end of there friendships, A \" I Always Get My Man FBI Agent, Un-knowing beautiful lusted after Bank Manager, drug/alcohol addicted sister, the crummy old Irish \"Hear No Evil, See No Evil, SEPEAK TO NO ONE!!!! Mentality\" Boston area!!! It was a brilliant book. I was very happy with this choice, I usually do not divulge the book much for everyone who is interested s sake but if you seen the movie..... WOW YOU ARE IN FOR A SUSPENSE RIDE!!! It's the movie but 100x better and with more action and inside info!!!! It's basically THE MUST READ THIS YEAR!!! Go get it now!!!!! ...more That'll teach me to read a book that's soon-to-be a major motion picture written by and directed by and starring Ben Affleck. Bank robber tale of one of the robbers pursuit of love of one of the bank tellers! The movie The town, is based on this book! excellant gritty Boston Crime drama- far deeper and more touching then your typical thriller- READ THIS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I wasn't planning to read this book. I found it on sale at a bookstore so I bought it. I saw the movie and I thought it was good. At first, there were loads of things I wasn't yet familiar with (such as the details of bank robbery, armored trucks, hockey, Irish community etc.) It was predominantly a male thing. But as I kept on reading, I learned a lot about such things. The writer is so skilled and left no detail to chance and I was very fond of the protagonist; an antihero but the sort of man I wasn't planning to read this book. I found it on sale at a bookstore so I bought it. I saw the movie and I thought it was good. At first, there were loads of things I wasn't yet familiar with (such as the details of bank robbery, armored trucks, hockey, Irish community etc.) It was predominantly a male thing. But as I kept on reading, I learned a lot about such things. The writer is so skilled and left no detail to chance and I was very fond of the protagonist; an antihero but the sort of man who was internally beautiful & very interesting. An emotional and cautious guy with a tough shell. This is a story about a man named Doug, who used to be a hockey star in his community. His father was a bank robber too but now in jail and his mother was said to have left them when he was a kid. Doug also have spent time in jail and when he got out, he became a full time robber along with his three friends. He was also a recovering alcoholic and was determined to avoid alcohol and start a new life. The story started with the four friends robbing a bank where he met the love of his life named Claire Keesey. She was a bank manager. She was exactly what Doug needed in his life; a good girl. Doug was a smart and cautious man. He would spend time researching and covering their tracks. In this job, he stalked Claire for a few weeks prior to the robbery. Then he fell in love with her. After the robbery, Claire was traumatized and Doug appeared to be the knight in shining armor when in fact he was the cause of it. There were lots of conflicts and anxieties that had to be dealt with including the detective working on the case who was also interested in Claire. This detective could not be taken lightly because he was a good one and stubborn as well. He was to the police what Doug was to robbery. The detective,whose aim was to solve the case and catch the criminals, seemed to be the villain instead and the robber was the hero. Although the book was very good, I actually thought that Ben Affleck's decision to change the ending was better than it had been originally. I didn't particularly like that Claire seemed to have lost her trust and affection for Doug. Doug died bleeding in front of Claire and she seemed to have claimed her freedom at that very moment. Doug was foolish to give in to that one last job. Oh well, there are probably things that a man has to do and be a man. Doug was that lonely man you wish you had known and became friends with. He was surrounded by people who could not help him to change what he was and be what he wanted to be. He had that one last chance to start a new life, but ties with friends and brotherhood were hard to break. He had a chance to claim his own freedom but he gave in to the needs and demands of others. Such a lonely story. That's why I like Ben Affleck's movie because at the end, Doug became free and there was so much hope. There was so much future for him. ...more Took awhile cause I wasn't sure what to write about this book... I had a good time reading this...the novel opened quietly but with a bang as well. Jem had me groaning and wanting to smack him from the beginning, you can tell from the small glimpse there he's a little off balance. I wouldn't call this a \"slow paced\" novel, to me its more \"steady\"... it lets events unfold without rushing things and you get a glimpse into everyone's lives and heads. You root for them even though you know that somet Took awhile cause I wasn't sure what to write about this book... I had a good time reading this...the novel opened quietly but with a bang as well. Jem had me groaning and wanting to smack him from the beginning, you can tell from the small glimpse there he's a little off balance. I wouldn't call this a \"slow paced\" novel, to me its more \"steady\"... it lets events unfold without rushing things and you get a glimpse into everyone's lives and heads. You root for them even though you know that something has to give... Frawley and Dino were interesting guys, passionate and dedicated to their jobs, as they get closer to apprehending the foursome, you cross your fingers they won't get caught but at the same time I was secretly hoping Doug and Dez would get away.. I figured Jem was heading down a more slippery slope than the others. Frawley is a good man, but there were a few times I just wanted to shake and smack him for some of his actions... he wants to protect Claire and is fond of her, he sees her and Doug together (its in the summary so techinally not a spoiler haha)... he lets his humiliation override his professionalism at times, I kept waiting for him to cross more over the line and was crossing my fingers he wouldn't do something he'd regret. Doug and Claire are a sweet couple, it made me smile to see them together but there's a cloud over them with the secrets Doug is keeping from her and you know its gonna catch up with them... Krista I didn't like much throughout the book, and I was with Doug over Jem trying to push them together all the time.. rolling my eyes and gritting my teeth with Doug. She grows a little bit at the end but it was hard for me to tell if she was still being genuine or not. There was sort of an undercurrent (right word?) between her and Jem at times that made me wonder *shudders* but who knows? The ending beginning after the final scene of the book, shows a bit of a carefree part before everything goes downhill... the last line with a sort of passing thought from Doug kinda makes you smile. I think this is more for the patient reader, if your expecting a fast paced novel then this may not be for you (though I could be wrong). Loved Mr Hogan's writing style, its great when an author can create a setting/atmosphere and make you feel your living it right alongside the people in the book :). This still didn't turn out how I wanted haha, but I really did enjoy this book... *waves bye* ...more Rating: 9/10 Pages: 384 I couldn't put this book down. I was pissed John had me read it as it was so stressful. You love hte main character, Doug, but he is definitely flawed. At the end, his epiphany was well done. The other characters, his gang, are so programmed to have a chip on their shoulder as suburbia takes over their run down area. His interests in being better, bigger than that are enticing, and yet you can see he will always fall short. You feel trapped like he does, and his friends rea Rating: 9/10 Pages: 384 I couldn't put this book down. I was pissed John had me read it as it was so stressful. You love hte main character, Doug, but he is definitely flawed. At the end, his epiphany was well done. The other characters, his gang, are so programmed to have a chip on their shoulder as suburbia takes over their run down area. His interests in being better, bigger than that are enticing, and yet you can see he will always fall short. You feel trapped like he does, and his friends really, really hold him back. It is so well done, you understand their actions, and why they don't look further than the next step. Claire was an interesting character, and you feel for her. One of the few hitches I had is yes, she is traumatized, but then is kind of flippant. But for her character, it fits, but personally I wouldn't have reacted. Good thing I wasn't the bank manager, I guess! Jem was a great character, and as he spirals out of control, it becomes very interesting. He does good things, and then is a shit show. He was believable, but tragic. This book is so well done, I finished it in several days because I was so enticed with the characters. but it is like watching a new friend slowly lay on the tracks of a railroad. But I guess that means that Hogan is that good at his writing. Kind of almost \"where the red ferns grow.\" You find yourself wound up and can't stop it. This book was right before everything changed over the technology and it even talks about that. The last of the bank robbers that break in and take physical money. And all the pro moves--leaving the dye packs, watching guards, etc., that really was fascinating and a different world to read about. Great book, but i left with a smile because I loved it, but not because everyone ends up in a cottage, by a river all happy. Definitely a huge statement on the way the poor are trapped and truly how class does affect America. ...more I thank Ben Affleck's movie 'The Town' for two things: Ray Lamontagne and his beautiful song 'Jolene' which became one of my dearest. And although I\u2019ve never been Bob Dylan\u2019s lyrical sadness type of listener, this is perfect. It makes the same goose skin effect like when I listen to Tracy Chapman's 'Fast car' and Springsteen\u2019s 'River' (although Joshua Kadison's 'Jessie' as well fits into this storytelling category). Second reason why I thank Ben Affleck is his idea to adapt this book into a movi I thank Ben Affleck's movie 'The Town' for two things: Ray Lamontagne and his beautiful song 'Jolene' which became one of my dearest. And although I\u2019ve never been Bob Dylan\u2019s lyrical sadness type of listener, this is perfect. It makes the same goose skin effect like when I listen to Tracy Chapman's 'Fast car' and Springsteen\u2019s 'River' (although Joshua Kadison's 'Jessie' as well fits into this storytelling category). Second reason why I thank Ben Affleck is his idea to adapt this book into a movie, which I think is his best movie, and because by adapting it I had a chance to hear about 'Prince of thieves' and then buy it and read it (hear it). Well, it\u2019s no wonder I liked it. For me, it\u2019s just one of those books that I easily got attached to, that are somehow life connected but as well not at all connected with my life. It had that vibrant pulse and broken characters that I enjoy reading about. It\u2019s easy literature, an average reader is not going to linger on it for ages and it won\u2019t make the Earth pause its rotation for one second because my heart skipped a beat but it will make me feel good about myself after reading it, and it will make me go out on the balcony and have a glass of wine and it will make me feel happy, knowing that there are things in life \u2013 books in my life. ...more Borrowed from my host, I began this book on a long weekend, hoping I would finish it. I COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN! The story is so compelling and each character, especially the main ones: Doug, Jem, Clair and even Frawly, the FBI agent, were believable to their roles. Growing up with a \"hood\" with \"hoods\" I got right into the scene and Hogan does justice to his characters and setting. As a reader (the viewer) I was there in every movement and thought. Of course from early on in the story as Doug, a l Borrowed from my host, I began this book on a long weekend, hoping I would finish it. I COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN! The story is so compelling and each character, especially the main ones: Doug, Jem, Clair and even Frawly, the FBI agent, were believable to their roles. Growing up with a \"hood\" with \"hoods\" I got right into the scene and Hogan does justice to his characters and setting. As a reader (the viewer) I was there in every movement and thought. Of course from early on in the story as Doug, a leader of the bank robbers, progresses toward self-awareness and the limitations in life, I knew how it'd have to end. I as right and still I was disappointed that I had to be. I totally see this as a movie, that's how Chuck Hogan created it. You like cops and robbers? Then you'll like this. Warning: strong language could be a turn off but true to day and age the story takes place. The Skye in June ...more I waited longer than I'd intended to write up this review, so it'll be severely abbreviated, but there's still plenty of talking points: 1. Once the action mounts in this book and you know various parties are on a collision course, you can't bear to put it down. This is true all the way through its conclusion, when I was still unsure of how things would be resolved. 2. Thank God I hadn't seen the movie adaptation of this, because the detail Hogan puts forth in his exploring the various elements of I waited longer than I'd intended to write up this review, so it'll be severely abbreviated, but there's still plenty of talking points: 1. Once the action mounts in this book and you know various parties are on a collision course, you can't bear to put it down. This is true all the way through its conclusion, when I was still unsure of how things would be resolved. 2. Thank God I hadn't seen the movie adaptation of this, because the detail Hogan puts forth in his exploring the various elements of robbery takes me on a ride. It almost makes Prince of Thieves read like a textbook for larcenists. 3. Particularly on my end, the pop culture references throughout the book do a great job of dating the narrative. Various events frame the time period and put you wholly into the environment. 4. At first, I didn't think the ending was what I wanted, but upon reflecting, I realized that it was tremendously poetic. The conclusion brings to light themes that were not so apparent originally, and that's what makes Prince of Thieves a definite re-read. ...more I saw the movie, The Town, a few years ago and got the book after I learned the movie was based on a book. The movie was great, the book is even better. You get so much more depth with the characters and the plot. With the book, you can dwell on the inner life and struggle in Doug; the obsession of the FBI agent pursuing him; and the thoughts and reactions of Claire -- the woman caught up in the middle of it all. It always amazes when an author can make a sympathetic hero out of a character that I saw the movie, The Town, a few years ago and got the book after I learned the movie was based on a book. The movie was great, the book is even better. You get so much more depth with the characters and the plot. With the book, you can dwell on the inner life and struggle in Doug; the obsession of the FBI agent pursuing him; and the thoughts and reactions of Claire -- the woman caught up in the middle of it all. It always amazes when an author can make a sympathetic hero out of a character that should be a bad guy. Hogan does just that, I kept hoping and looking for a way for Doug to get out; you want him to get away with it all even though you know he shouldn't and he can't. Hogan gives a haunting portrayal of Charlestown adapting to the changes in the 90s--which also mirror the changes in Doug: it wants to move forward but can't or doesn't know how and so does it what it knows best even if that is wrong. The book was also wonderfully nostalgic for me as someone who lived in Boston in the 90s. I loved reading the names of the old banks and places no longer there. ...more The main reason I picked this book up was because I read the Del Toro/Hogan collaboration The Strain, but then I saw the movie The Town and thoughts it was the cat's pajamas. The movie was so interesting and enjoyable that I had to read the book. This book did not disappoint in any way, shape, or form. I do not want to give too much away, but if you've seen the film, you're in for a treat, because even thought the film takes form from the book, the book is it's own entity. The characters are mor The main reason I picked this book up was because I read the Del Toro/Hogan collaboration The Strain, but then I saw the movie The Town and thoughts it was the cat's pajamas. The movie was so interesting and enjoyable that I had to read the book. This book did not disappoint in any way, shape, or form. I do not want to give too much away, but if you've seen the film, you're in for a treat, because even thought the film takes form from the book, the book is it's own entity. The characters are more lively, the story is a bit darker, The Florist is not that big of character (a change I appreciated in the movie, and god rest Pete), and the outcome is very different, and well received in the book. Again, this is a heist story and a love story, and it does both stories very nicely. Hogan definitely has his thumb on the culture of the bank job and the story of love. Props to the man. ...more This was the book that dove me into the literature world. Chuck Hogan's best asset as a writer is his depth and detail into each character as if you know each person in the novel personally. An aspect of writing that is difficult to obtain, but Hogan is one of the best. The story is thrilling, sincere, and will leave you satisfied at the end. Hogan also has a way of shyly putting in short, significant lessons that make you even more root for the main character, Doug. I have read the rest of Chuc This was the book that dove me into the literature world. Chuck Hogan's best asset as a writer is his depth and detail into each character as if you know each person in the novel personally. An aspect of writing that is difficult to obtain, but Hogan is one of the best. The story is thrilling, sincere, and will leave you satisfied at the end. Hogan also has a way of shyly putting in short, significant lessons that make you even more root for the main character, Doug. I have read the rest of Chuck Hogan's novels and I was not disappointed one bit (I haven't read The Strain trilogy yet) and I can't wait for his next novel. All in all, this novel is fast-paced, suspenseful, and an enthralling love story of a thief and his Town. ...more This book was pretty much what I hoped it would be: a fast-paced, easy read. I did think that it dragged in some parts, but overall it was a fun read. It takes place in Charlestown, a section of Boston, and revolves around four bank thieves. Boston is really its own character in the book and it seems to be going through the same changes that Doug is, who the main character. Both The Town and Doug are trying to clean up their act, but just can't seem to get away from a life of crime. Besides Doug This book was pretty much what I hoped it would be: a fast-paced, easy read. I did think that it dragged in some parts, but overall it was a fun read. It takes place in Charlestown, a section of Boston, and revolves around four bank thieves. Boston is really its own character in the book and it seems to be going through the same changes that Doug is, who the main character. Both The Town and Doug are trying to clean up their act, but just can't seem to get away from a life of crime. Besides Doug, the characters tend to be a little one-dimensional and I was a little disappointed by the end, but I would definitely recommend it to anyone who enjoys crime novels. ...more My first Chuck Hogan book, which I'd been eyeing when it first came out a few years ago, but never got around to picking up. So, when I heard the Ben Affleck movie THE TOWN (which I haven't seen yet) was adapted from this book, I had to give it a try. Really enjoyed Hogan's characters--more so Duggy, Jem, and the rest of their bank robbing crew than the victim/love interest Claire, who seemed thinly drawn by comparison (probably because we didn't get into her head until her POV scene at the end? My first Chuck Hogan book, which I'd been eyeing when it first came out a few years ago, but never got around to picking up. So, when I heard the Ben Affleck movie THE TOWN (which I haven't seen yet) was adapted from this book, I had to give it a try. Really enjoyed Hogan's characters--more so Duggy, Jem, and the rest of their bank robbing crew than the victim/love interest Claire, who seemed thinly drawn by comparison (probably because we didn't get into her head until her POV scene at the end?). The detail on Boston was great, as were all the tactical and anecdotal insights on heisting. Very entertaining overall. I will be reading more from this author. ...more WEW! That was an emotional roller coaster! I've been the movie the town and didn't know that it was based off of a book so when i came across this one at my local used book store in audio i was like HECK YES! It didn't disapoint! Great look at street life and the mechanics of robbary but also the characters involved, the main character Doug, you just wanted to shake him and wake him up! And tell him to go with his gut and that it was going to be okay if he would just do what he knew was right!! Lo WEW! That was an emotional roller coaster! I've been the movie the town and didn't know that it was based off of a book so when i came across this one at my local used book store in audio i was like HECK YES! It didn't disapoint! Great look at street life and the mechanics of robbary but also the characters involved, the main character Doug, you just wanted to shake him and wake him up! And tell him to go with his gut and that it was going to be okay if he would just do what he knew was right!! Loved the realism to this book. Loved the raw emotion. I felt like I was really involved in this and like it was really happening. Well done Hogan! ...more I picked this up because it's been re-released under the title \"The Town\", the name of the new Movie directed by Ben Affleck. The cast is superb, but I wanted to read the book before the movie - and I was not disappointed. Chuck Hogan writes the most tortured - yet understandable - bank robber you'll ever meet. And it doesn't stop there - the entire crew is nuanced and grabby - you don't want to get invested in them, but you do. Overall, I loved the story - the only complaint was that because of I picked this up because it's been re-released under the title \"The Town\", the name of the new Movie directed by Ben Affleck. The cast is superb, but I wanted to read the book before the movie - and I was not disappointed. Chuck Hogan writes the most tortured - yet understandable - bank robber you'll ever meet. And it doesn't stop there - the entire crew is nuanced and grabby - you don't want to get invested in them, but you do. Overall, I loved the story - the only complaint was that because of the movie previews, I knew some of the circumstances around the ending. If you're goin to read it, skip the trailers...otherwise, worth a read. ...more I thought this book was damn good when I read it back in the day. I watched Affleck's film adaptation this evening, and I've gotta say, it wasn't bad at all. If I hadn't read the book, I probably would have enjoyed it more, but oh well. Dat car chase w/the nun masks was intense! Anyways- back to the novel. This book got me into the crime/heist book scene, which I'm forever grateful for- as that led me to the true crime genre. It also gave me some fun ideas to test out while playing GTA! Thanks, Ch I thought this book was damn good when I read it back in the day. I watched Affleck's film adaptation this evening, and I've gotta say, it wasn't bad at all. If I hadn't read the book, I probably would have enjoyed it more, but oh well. Dat car chase w/the nun masks was intense! Anyways- back to the novel. This book got me into the crime/heist book scene, which I'm forever grateful for- as that led me to the true crime genre. It also gave me some fun ideas to test out while playing GTA! Thanks, Chuck! ...more Great heist novel about a guy who's a pro at stealing money from various guarded places. In-depth description of the armored car gives you a much deeper respect for why it's so hard to hijack one. Main character is seeking redemption, but his 'friends' hold him back every step of the way.... The struggle is compelling, and although he's a criminal, I found myself cheering for him every step of the way. I must admit that I loved the movie madly, and was incredibly disappointed with the book. There was very, very little character development, and the main character wasn't particularly likeable. I found the opposite to be true with the film. This is one of the very, very rare instances where the movie is exponentially better than the book! The Town is a much better title than The Prince of Thieves - in my opinion. Mostly because the story is as much about Doug MacRay's surroundings as it is about Doug himself. Prince of Thieves just kinda sounds corny anyway :P Anyhow I wanted to read this one because I absolutely loved the movie and I have heard good things about Chuck Hogan; this book did not disappoint!<---C>Chuck Hogan</---C>", "Title": "Prince of Thieves"},
