{"Comments": "It's weird how I find the most difficult books to review are those that I knew were going to be amazing... and yep,<---M> this was amazing! I mean</---M>, what do you say that actually means anything? I could ramble on about fantastic writing, brilliant characters, excellent plot, this would all be true but the words are so empty and don't convey what I love about this series. They don't say how this intricate fantasy world pulls you in with it's politics, it's culture and it's superstitions. It's like the e It's weird how I find the most difficult books to review are those that I knew were going to be amazing... and yep, this was amazing! I mean, what do you say that actually means anything? I could ramble on about fantastic writing, brilliant characters, excellent plot, this would all be true but the words are so empty and don't convey what I love about this series. They don't say how this intricate fantasy world pulls you in with it's politics, it's culture and it's superstitions. It's like the excitement of walking through a wardrobe into the strange land of Narnia and not knowing what's around every corner, but needing to find out. There is no map provided in these books (<---B>at least not in my editions</---B>) but the parts of the world that we have explored so far are completely imaginable to me. I can imagine Attolia by the coast and picture the mountains running through this world that forge geographical, political and cultural boundaries. Am I starting to waffle? That's because I am in love with this series; is this how Romeo felt? \"Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.\" Okay, all right, I'm stopping before it gets even weirder. I don't understand how so many authors can write in 1st person and still fail to create characters that interest me as much as <---A>Megan Whalen Turner</---A> does so easily in her 3rd person perspective. Perhaps it is that she only reveals what is absolutely necessary and the characters we think we know can so easily surprise us. This book is told from the point of view of Costis (an Attolian soldier) who is assigned to be the King's lieutenant and witnesses much of the goings on around the palace. I'm starting to think that this is ultimately the more effective way to tell a story. Well, Wuthering Heights was told entirely from the point of view of secondary characters, for one! The story was excellent, I loved visiting <---C>Eugenides</---C> again and seeing how far he has come and how much he is still the same little devil we met in book one. This is a novel full of palace politics, new friendships, conspiracies, assassins and a dash of romance. I wasn't sure how the relationship between the new King and the Queen of Attolia would work out, but Turner handled it perfectly and the chemistry between two such unlikely companions was very exciting to read. Oh and, of course, this is Megan Whalen Turner so you can be sure that nothing is as it seems... ...more If I tell you that each book in this series just gets more and more exceptional, will you believe me? Or will you believe that I, like Eugenides, am simply telling you a version of the truth to get you to do what I want you to do? (In this case, to get you to read these books yesterday). Both things are true, by the way. <+++>The King of Attolia</+++> is even better than its predecessor and I will tell you anything to get you to read these books.<---F> Yesterday</---F>. Plus, check out my favorite cover of the three. L If I tell you that each book in this series just gets more and more exceptional, will you believe me? Or will you believe that I, like Eugenides, am simply telling you a version of the truth to get you to do what I want you to do? (In this case, to get you to read these books yesterday). Both things are true, by the way. <+++>The King of Attolia</+++> is even better than its predecessor and I will tell you anything to get you to read these books. Yesterday. Plus, check out my favorite cover of the three. Look at the feather scar on his cheek. Her hand on his shoulder. His grip on the sword. So awesome. Eugenides has just embarked upon his self-imposed life of exile in Attolia. And to any and all onlookers, he is ill at ease in his new home. The queen appears to despise him, the court thinks him an idiot of epic proportions, and the guard are ready to murder him on their queen's behalf. The story follows a young lieutenant named Costis who is having a shockingly bad day. In a fit of righteous indignation, he hauled off and punched the king in the face in front of several witnesses, including the captain of the guard. Certain he will hang in the morning, Costis is shocked and discomfited to find himself assigned to be the king's personal assistant. Forced to serve the man he hates, Costis soon finds himself on the receiving end of a most unorthodox education of a lifetime. Through his eyes, the reader gets an intimate, exquisitely poignant look at the relationship between the King and the Queen of Attolia. This third installment is the big payoff in many ways. The Thief set up the key characters, briefly sketching out their backgrounds and motivations--all against a background of a grand quest--and it did it with humor and style. The Queen of Attolia delved into the complicated psyches of the two main players, word by artfully chosen word, making your heart ache for them, ensuring you fall in love with them. The King of Attolia cements the whole gorgeous package. This is where Eugenides comes into his own. This is where you realize he's smarter than you. And so is Megan Whalen Turner . And you wouldn't have it any other way. This book is the real deal. Every scene is choice. Every sarcastic exchange. Every vicious riposte. Every hidden glance. It's a rereader's paradise and, as Oscar Wilde said, \"If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all.\" The King of Attolia is so worth it. I can already tell I will be reading about these characters for the rest of my life. ...more With this book Megan Whalen Turner has cemented herself as one of my all-time favorite writers. I absolutely loved \"The Queen of Attolia\" and \"The King of Attolia\" is a remarkable follow-up. Eugenides, the famous Thief of Eddis, is now the King of Attolia. He is married to the woman he loves but he doesn't enjoy the power that comes with it. Gen is despised by Attolians, they think him a lazy fool and a treacherous abuser of their Queen. But of course, things are not at all what they seem to be.. With this book Megan Whalen Turner has cemented herself as one of my all-time favorite writers. I absolutely loved \"The Queen of Attolia\" and \"The King of Attolia\" is a remarkable follow-up. Eugenides, the famous Thief of Eddis, is now the King of Attolia. He is married to the woman he loves but he doesn't enjoy the power that comes with it. Gen is despised by Attolians, they think him a lazy fool and a treacherous abuser of their Queen. But of course, things are not at all what they seem to be... The book is almost entirely written from the POV of Costis, an ordinary guard who at the opening of the book physically assaults the King. Instead of being executed, Costis is pardoned by Eugenides and soon even becomes one of his closest attendants and a center of various court intrigues. Slowly Costis, and we together with him, starts learning who his new King really is, the nature of Gen's relationship with his Queen and his schemes that are intended to reshape the landscape of Attolian politics. As Turner's previous book, \"The King of Attolia\" is filled with political intrigues and power play, this time almost exclusively within the Attolian court. Another excellent addition - Turner's examination of royal power and the nature of loyalty to the superiors - a very skillful and clever touch. The characters (I am mostly talking about Gen and Irene) still remain almost anonymous to us (as they are to Attolians), the narration is not overburdened with their emotional turmoils, but whatever we get a glimpse of - for instance, Gen's complicated relationship with his wife (we all know their history and they both are not quite over it) - is touching and deep. What else can I say? \"The King of Attolia\" is another masterful novel by Megan Whalen Turner. I expect I will enjoy \"A Conspiracy of Kings\" just as much. ...more Buddy Read with some series fanatics at Buddies Books & Baubles This series isn\u2019t your typical sort of fantasy. Most of the book is more intellectual than actionable in that I spent most of the time trying to figure out the subtle interactions between Eugenides and the Queen of Attolia. After a few books shown from the PoVs of Eudenidies and The Queens it was interesting that most of this book was shown from the perspective of Costis a member of the Attolian guard. At first I didn\u2019t really un Buddy Read with some series fanatics at Buddies Books & Baubles This series isn\u2019t your typical sort of fantasy. Most of the book is more intellectual than actionable in that I spent most of the time trying to figure out the subtle interactions between Eugenides and the Queen of Attolia. After a few books shown from the PoVs of Eudenidies and The Queens it was interesting that most of this book was shown from the perspective of Costis a member of the Attolian guard. At first I didn\u2019t really understand what the author was doing, but then it made perfect sense. It was a much more interesting story to see how everyone else in Attolia perceived Gen and try to figure out what he was really up to. If we got the story from his perspective then the mystery of it wouldn\u2019t have been half as entertaining. I almost feel bad for Costis caught in whatever game Gen is playing. \u201cDon\u2019t hang Teleus. But I don\u2019t see how you can hang Costis if you won\u2019t hang his superior officer.\u201d The queen turned back to face him. \u201cI could hang you,\u201d she said. Eugenides looked up at her. \u201cYou missed your chance for that,\u201d he said. The queen lifted a hand to briefly cover her eyes. \u201cIt is remarkable how you cloud my otherwise clear vision,\u201d she said. \u201cWhat is it you propose?\u201d \u201cI propose that you let me trade him to Teleus. His life in return for Teleus\u2019s good behavior.\u201d AND LET THE GAMES BEGIN\u2026..The people of Attolia have made sure that Gen does not feel the least bit welcome in their country. Most of the time they like to refer to him as a jumped-up barbarian goatfoot and play little vengeful tricks on him in order to chip away at his resolve and respect. It was so weird to see what they thought of him since we know how deadly he truly is. The gods above knew that the king could be laid out by a toddler with a toasting fork. What hope had he against an assassin, trained as a sword is sharpened, honed to one purpose, to murder? I really enjoyed trying to figure out myself what game he was playing and why he was pretending to be so much less than he was. While I was certain there was something up I struggled to put the clues together. Everyone thought that they were getting the best of Eugenides, when he was really maneuvering them to move to the steps of the dance he set in motion. We get little glimpses of Gen and the Queen together and it made it all the more special to also see those through Costis\u2019s eyes. There aren\u2019t a lot of them as this is not a romance per say but the moments we get really are pretty beautiful and spectacular because there aren\u2019t a lot of them. \u201cTell me you won\u2019t cut out my lying tongue, tell me you won\u2019t blind me, you won\u2019t drive red-hot wires into my ears.\u201d After one moment of gripped immobility, the queen bent to kiss the king lightly on one closed eyelid, then on the other. She said, \u201cI love your eyes.\u201d She kissed him on either cheek, near the small lobe of his ear. \u201cI love your ears, and I love\u201d\u2014she paused as she kissed him gently on the lips\u2014\u201cevery single one of your ridiculous lies.\u201d There are a few moments of action in the book. But for the most part it is a political maneuvering conspiracy and most of the fun was in the revelation of clues and the big reveal of why Eugenides would put up with so much for so long. There was a great sword fight towards the end and I enjoyed the reason behind it and why it finally happened. It was great to see Gen finally figure out his place in Attolia and claim it in true Thief fashion. ...more Best book in the series alert! Best book in the series alert! So this is totally the best book in the series so far. Loooooved it. I don\u2019t know if I\u2019ve ever read a story before that had a romance like this that was so subtle, and yet so freakin complicated . I can\u2019t help but feel a little uncomfortable about the relationship, but at the same time I am deeply moved by it. There\u2019s no way to forget the past, not for these two, not with the harsh reminder they must live with every day -- but the way t Best book in the series alert! Best book in the series alert! So this is totally the best book in the series so far. Loooooved it. I don\u2019t know if I\u2019ve ever read a story before that had a romance like this that was so subtle, and yet so freakin complicated . I can\u2019t help but feel a little uncomfortable about the relationship, but at the same time I am deeply moved by it. There\u2019s no way to forget the past, not for these two, not with the harsh reminder they must live with every day -- but the way they do live with it touched me and had me rooting for them with all my heart. (view spoiler) [ Forgetting Costis standing nearby, forgetting possibly that anyone or anything else in the world existed, the king said shakily, \u201cTell me you won\u2019t cut out my lying tongue, tell me you won\u2019t blind me, you won\u2019t drive red-hot wires into my ears.\u201d After one moment of gripped immobility, the queen bent to kiss the king lightly on one closed eyelid, then on the other. She said, \u201cI love your eyes.\u201d She kissed him on either cheek, near the small lobe of his ear. \u201cI love your ears, and I love\u201d--she paused as she kissed him gently on the lips--\u201devery single one of your ridiculous lies.\u201d (hide spoiler) ] Introducing a new POV through guardsman Costis was a brilliant move on Turner\u2019s part. We as readers already know what to expect from Eugenides (view spoiler) [(nothing is as it seems on the surface, nothing is an accident, not when Gen is involved.) (hide spoiler) ] , so watching the story unfold through this new character\u2019s eyes was a treat and it was great seeing how his perspective of Gen changed throughout the book. My favorite part: \u201cYou drop your point in third.\u201d (view spoiler) [I LOVED the fight scenes at the end!! I was waiting and waiting throughout the whole freakin book for Eugenides to show ALL those motherfuckers what a badass swordsman he really was. The way it played out was fantastic, I loved every single second of it! (hide spoiler) ] ...more Sometimes I just can't even with this series. Gen, Gen, Gen, only the most fully awesome, amazing, charming, sneaky little devil that you can't help but love. (That love that borders on if you were a real person, we would be total besties except only in my mind cause you're way too awesome to hang out with the likes of me. I'd probably end up being something closer to your stalker.) Attolia, whom we are getting lovely emotional growth from. More on her in the future..... Read the books, I beg of Sometimes I just can't even with this series. Gen, Gen, Gen, only the most fully awesome, amazing, charming, sneaky little devil that you can't help but love. (That love that borders on if you were a real person, we would be total besties except only in my mind cause you're way too awesome to hang out with the likes of me. I'd probably end up being something closer to your stalker.) Attolia, whom we are getting lovely emotional growth from. More on her in the future..... Read the books, I beg of you! The writing is so brilliant. The plot\\twist absurdly good. The characters perfectly flawed. Everything about this is wonderful. I had some trepidations about this one (as did quite a few others). I mean, Costis?? NOT Gen's POV?? What is this trickery? But it ended up being a brilliant move on MWT's part. It gave us an unique perspective of Gen, seeing him as others saw him and not how he saw himself. I wouldn't have this book written any other way. Not even to \"see\" Gen's thoughts. So to you, MWT: Fan Cast: I actually screamed when I saw this. I can't believe I never even thought of Katie McGrath before!! She's frelling perfect for the role!! Katie McGrath as Attolia Aneurin Barnard as Eugenides The source for this beauty. Fanmix - 1. The Thief - Attolia ...more An awesome, awesome book! Sweet revenge. When you have a protagonist so much superior mentally and physically than anyone else, yet was taken as a fool and belittled by everyone, it was the COOLEST thing to see him finally reveal his true self, making everyone realize they'd been played all along. Turner was a genius. Her intelligence and imagination made Eugenides a truly brilliant character. \"...if Attolia could look like a queen, then Eugenides was like a god revealed...\". Furthermore, Turner An awesome, awesome book! Sweet revenge. When you have a protagonist so much superior mentally and physically than anyone else, yet was taken as a fool and belittled by everyone, it was the COOLEST thing to see him finally reveal his true self, making everyone realize they'd been played all along. Turner was a genius. Her intelligence and imagination made Eugenides a truly brilliant character. \"...if Attolia could look like a queen, then Eugenides was like a god revealed...\". Furthermore, Turner made the story that much more interesting by telling it from a third party point of view. The illusion and misconception at the beginning; the subsequent intrigues; and finally the awe, everything was revealed gradually. I was giddy with anticipation reading and guessing Eugenides's maneuvers. I'd had such negative feeling about cutting off Eugenides's hand in the last book that I didn't believe the series and the romantic relationship could recover from that. However, in this book, everything made sense, their relationship flourished. I actually felt Eugenides's losing one hand was essential to the story's perfection. Not many authors could've pulled this off and Turner did it beautifully. Last but not least, the book is a perfect example of \"show, not tell\". Nothing was told outright to the readers, everything was observed through other people's eye, yet we still got a clear picture of the characters and felt close to them. It was in turn heartwarming, sweet, and heartbreaking, while the story always absorbing. A solid, deserving 5-star. ...more I'm not a mystery reader, and I've never fully appreciated whodunits, so by rights I should have been irritated with the Attolia books rather than enthralled by them. Unguessable twists and turns are the hallmark of the series: the reader can't possible figure out exactly what is going on because we don't have the information necessary, but we're haunted by the certainty that something more is going on than what the other, non-trickster characters are seeing. This was a sick-day reread for me, a I'm not a mystery reader, and I've never fully appreciated whodunits, so by rights I should have been irritated with the Attolia books rather than enthralled by them. Unguessable twists and turns are the hallmark of the series: the reader can't possible figure out exactly what is going on because we don't have the information necessary, but we're haunted by the certainty that something more is going on than what the other, non-trickster characters are seeing. This was a sick-day reread for me, and I was just as captured by it this time, even knowing the upcoming twists (those that I could remember, anyway). Eugenides, the Thief of Eddis, has acceded to the throne of Attolia. He sleeps through official meetings, plays the fool, and generally convinces his attendants, Guard, and other members of the court that he is either weak or a buffoon. Most of the narrative is from the perspective of Costis, an honorable guard who's fallen into the unenviable role of being Gen's lackey. He's not the brightest, and his opinion of Gen is nearly as contemptuous as everyone else's, at least in the beginning. What makes the book interesting is that the reader knows better. The King of Attolia is, IMO, the absolute best of the three books. What makes it so excellent is that Megan Whalen Turner's sleight-of-hand with the plot mirrors the complexity of the relationship between the new King and the Queen. Even through the cloudiness and uncertainty of the plot, there are glimpses of powerful emotion that kept me hanging on to every word and possible clue. The backstory of their relationship -- the Queen's torture of Gen, the uncertain coercion of their marriage -- plays a huge role, coloring every important element of the story. There's been a lot of discussion about whether the narrative gaps in this book are an intentional plot tool or due to its being a sequel. Many people believe it could stand alone. I think it's clear that the narrative gaps are a tool, but I think the whole emotional web that gives the book such intriguing weight is dependent on the The Queen of Attolia . (I think The Thief serves primarily to show that Gen is more than he appears.) I heard a rumor that a fourth book is on its way, and as there were several Sounis-related loose ends that weren't tied up in this book, I'm hopeful! These keep getting better and better. Please write more! ...more How can it be possible to love a book , and , a series this much ??!! I love ,, love ,, absolutely and completely love this series, my love grows more and more with every book. I feel like I'll never ever again enjoy a book unless it's written by Megan Whalen Turner and have Eugenides in it. And if you are waiting for a proper review, sorry .. don't, am only using this space to show how much I love this series and this book , if I can!! This is my favorite book in one of my favorite fantasy series. It starts out a little bit slow, although it's fun watching for all the clues in the text that I missed the first time I read it. But the second half of this book: it is completely made of awesome. I love every single page of it. Full review to come, after it's posted on www.fantasyliterature.com . July 2015 reread with the Buddies Books and Baubles group. Prior review: This book is just so brilliant and well plotted. I've noticed that of This is my favorite book in one of my favorite fantasy series. It starts out a little bit slow, although it's fun watching for all the clues in the text that I missed the first time I read it. But the second half of this book: it is completely made of awesome. I love every single page of it. Full review to come, after it's posted on www.fantasyliterature.com . July 2015 reread with the Buddies Books and Baubles group. Prior review: This book is just so brilliant and well plotted. I've noticed that of all the books on my \"Favorites\" list, this one has the highest overall average rating, and it's for a very good reason. I can't think of anyone I know who wouldn't enjoy this book and its plot twists. Presumably if you're reading this review you've already read (or are thinking of reading) the first book in the series, The Thief , which is also a wonderful book, though I found it a little slower than this one. You really do need to read The Thief and The Queen of Attolia to understand and appreciate The King of Attolia , though. Personally I didn't like the 2nd book in the series (or the 4th, for that matter) nearly as well as the 1st and 3rd, but they're all worthy books. So go plow through the 2nd book, if only so you can get to this 3rd one in the series. It should not be missed. ...more 4/5 Stars Sometimes, if you want to change a man\u2019s mind, you change the mind of the man next to him first.\u201d The Skinny: Gen has gotten what he \u2018wanted\u2019; he is now the King of Attolia. It quickly becomes evident that while Gen got something he desired, that something was not to rule a Kingdom of people. Thrown into a life where the majority of his subjects despise him, Gen must try to come into his own. It appears as though Gen is royally sinking in his attempt to rule, but as is always the case 4/5 Stars Sometimes, if you want to change a man\u2019s mind, you change the mind of the man next to him first.\u201d The Skinny: Gen has gotten what he \u2018wanted\u2019; he is now the King of Attolia. It quickly becomes evident that while Gen got something he desired, that something was not to rule a Kingdom of people. Thrown into a life where the majority of his subjects despise him, Gen must try to come into his own. It appears as though Gen is royally sinking in his attempt to rule, but as is always the case with the thief, things are never what they appear. The Review: Unlike in The Thief, The King of Attolia is not told from Gen\u2019s point of view. This story focuses primarily on Costis, a member of the Attolian guard. Gen is still very much a part of this story, but Costis really takes center stage. It was interesting to see many of Gen\u2019s interactions and schemes from more of an \u2018outsiders\u2019 point of view. I found myself on the edge of my seat, because it was harder to discern what Gen was thinking and what his plans were because I was \u2018not in his head\u2019. At times this was also aggravating because I was wondering why the hell he was saying/doing certain things. Costis, one of the main characters in this book, was not really likable at first. I can attribute this 100% to the fact that he did not like Gen (whatever, people!) I suppose he cannot really be blamed for disliking the king, because Gen acted pretty damn foolish for a good portion of the book (always whining, falling asleep during meetings, and such). But as I got to know Costis as a character, he began to grow on me. Where everyone else took Gen\u2019s silly behavior at face value, Costis began to see the gaps. By the end, Costis was unflinchingly loyal to the king and he had redeemed himself in my eyes. Because you\u2019re a jumped-up barbarian goatfoot who abducted the Queen of Attolia and forced her to accept you as a husband and you have no right to be king, was Costis\u2019s thought. Aloud, he said, \u201cI don\u2019t know, Your Majesty.\u201d Gen, ohhhh Gen. Like I stated previously, Gen frustrated me in this novel. At times I was left wondering why he was acting like such a dunce. Without giving too much away \u2013 I should have realized that Gen always has something up his sleeve (I SWEAR I\u2019m not making a handless joke\u2026*wink*). The true beauty of this story, besides the twists and turns which are always top-notch, is the evolution of the relationships between characters. There is a huge change in the relationship between Costis and Gen. It was such a slow transformation between the two, that I can\u2019t exactly say what the actual turning point was. I just know that it was very fulfilling to see the pair go from hatred to something else. There was also a deepening marriage between Attolia and Gen. Their relationship might go down as one of my favorite romances because of the simple understanding they created between one another. Attolia understood Gen and he got her. I don\u2019t really know how else to describe it. Lastly, the development of Gen\u2019s subejcts feelings towards him was drawn out, yet amazing. I wanted to laugh at all of them by the end of the story. How could they have doubted the beloved Gen?! It was a kiss between a man and his wife, and when it was over, the king closed his eyes and rested his forehead against the hollow of the queen\u2019s shoulder, like a man seeking respite, like a man reaching home at the end of the day. Overall: This is a definite thinker of a book. Little things that appear inconsequential at first, end up leading to, or being, bigger things. While not full of fast-paced action, this story holds its own because of the development of the characters and the intricate plot. ...more I almost didn\u2019t read this book. If I didn\u2019t already own it (I ordered it at the same time as The Queen of Attolia), I probably wouldn\u2019t have. Because while I quite enjoyed the first book in this series, the second book didn\u2019t live up to the hype by a long shot, and I was expecting this one to be even worse. One of my main problems with The Queen was how removed the reader is from the main characters, so when I found out that The King of Attolia is actually focused on the perspective of a new, so I almost didn\u2019t read this book. If I didn\u2019t already own it (I ordered it at the same time as The Queen of Attolia), I probably wouldn\u2019t have. Because while I quite enjoyed the first book in this series, the second book didn\u2019t live up to the hype by a long shot, and I was expecting this one to be even worse. One of my main problems with The Queen was how removed the reader is from the main characters, so when I found out that The King of Attolia is actually focused on the perspective of a new, somewhat peripheral character, I was less than enthusiastic to read it. I didn\u2019t want to go through another book where I was even more cut off from the central characters and the heart of the story. Luckily for me, I did already own this book, because I read it and I loved it. Having Costis, a secondary character for all intents and purposes, filter events through his interpretation and limited knowledge actually makes the removed nature of the narrative seen in the previous book work really effectively here. He\u2019s close enough that you get a lot of Gen and even a decent amount of Attolia, but removed enough from the main plot that there are plenty of twists and the fact that there are twists is plausible. Whereas in The Queen (and even The Thief, to an extent) I found it difficult to stomach not having known important facets of the main character\u2019s feelings and personality for the bulk of the story, it was much more palatable in The King to know as much as Costis, and learn information as he did. The reader is still very much a bystander, as in the previous books in the series, but here you are also immersed in the narrative via Costis. I really liked Costis and his budding bromance with Gen. I was frustrated with Gen at first, but I should have known better. There's always more to him than meets the eye, the clever devil. He's such a brilliant character and definietly a highlight of this series. I also really like Irene as a character - she's so complex and interesting, and her relationship with Gen is fascinating and lovely. I wish there were more scenes between the two of them - we only really see what Costis sees - but what is there is amazing and powerful. It was worth reading this series for this book alone. ...more Okay, this book. It snuck up on me with all its cleverness and wit and romance while I wasn't paying attention, and suddenly I\u2019m having a full-body moment of squee flail, like you do. Which would have been fine if I hadn\u2019t been moving very fast on a treadmill at the time. Things got a bit hairy for a second there. This book is like \u2013 and I\u2019m just going to say \u2018no really\u2019 preemptively here \u2013 this book is kind of like Dorothy Dunnett \u2019s Lymond Chronicles if they were little young adult fantasies. No Okay, this book. It snuck up on me with all its cleverness and wit and romance while I wasn't paying attention, and suddenly I\u2019m having a full-body moment of squee flail, like you do. Which would have been fine if I hadn\u2019t been moving very fast on a treadmill at the time. Things got a bit hairy for a second there. This book is like \u2013 and I\u2019m just going to say \u2018no really\u2019 preemptively here \u2013 this book is kind of like Dorothy Dunnett \u2019s Lymond Chronicles if they were little young adult fantasies. No really! It\u2019s the quality of ruthlessness to self that they prize in their hero, who will use his history, his known character flaws, his disability in service to his political ends. They\u2019re not particularly alike in any other respect, but there\u2019s some fundamental accord there. Anyway. I think the best word for this book is indulgent . But in the good way where you\u2019re grinning the whole time, and maybe wriggling a bit, and it\u2019s not actually so much about suspending disbelief anymore as meeting the books halfway because this you will indulge. This pushed my buttons so hard with its outsider POV on a beloved character, and its story of personal reconciliation to political power (I, uh, have a thing for that as I\u2019m sure absolutely no one has noticed *cough*), and its continuing attention to the aftermath of violence. Ah. ...more Buddy read with my girls at Buddies, Books, & Baubles. I kept putting off starting this one. I think it was because I just couldn't warm to Attolia, at all, so I wasn't sure I'd enjoy this book. I'm so happy that I was dead WRONG! I was hooked my the second chapter & started binge reading until 3 in the morning. I couldn't figure Gen's motives for most of the book. I only knew he wanted to be underestimated. I didn't understand what he was doing with Costis beyond securing the Captain of t Buddy read with my girls at Buddies, Books, & Baubles. I kept putting off starting this one. I think it was because I just couldn't warm to Attolia, at all, so I wasn't sure I'd enjoy this book. I'm so happy that I was dead WRONG! I was hooked my the second chapter & started binge reading until 3 in the morning. I couldn't figure Gen's motives for most of the book. I only knew he wanted to be underestimated. I didn't understand what he was doing with Costis beyond securing the Captain of the Guard. I mean, it didn't earn him any loyalty. I was in the dark about Attolia & Gen, what was going on? I LOVE BEING KEPT GUESSING! This is my most favoritest book evah in The Queen's Thief series. Excellent plotting and storytelling. I put these books on both my middle grade and young adult shelves, it's hard to believe they're classified as middle grade. Megan Whalen Turner made it onto my favorite authors shelf, that woman can write! I very highly recommend this series. Most of my GR friends rated the first book lower than the rest. I was opposite, I rated the second book slightly lower because Attolia was hard for me to appreciate. I still feel a bit like I don't know her. Gen is such an excellent, intriguing character, he could carry the series alone if he had to. I think I'd probably laugh harder at his antics if I reread the first book, The Thief, knowing his secrets. When he gets his master-thief-mojo on, he's stinkin' incredible! His grandfather was not wrong when he said that a thief's greatest weapon is his mind! I want to know if Sophos is alright. I loved him in the first book and really want him and Eddis to make each other happy. Please, don't let him be dead. ...more Can I please give this book 6 stars?!!!! Just when I thought that the Queen's Thief series couldn't get better, Megan Whalen Turner stuns me with THE KING OF ATTOLIA! (view spoiler) [At the end of THE QUEEN OF ATTOLIA Gen found himself in a dilemma. All he wanted was to marry the Queen. However, he forgot to factor in that he would have to become King. He never wanted to rule a country. Gen had outwitted himself. THE KING OF ATTOLIA picks up soon after Gen and Irene were married. The people of Att Can I please give this book 6 stars?!!!! Just when I thought that the Queen's Thief series couldn't get better, Megan Whalen Turner stuns me with THE KING OF ATTOLIA! (view spoiler) [At the end of THE QUEEN OF ATTOLIA Gen found himself in a dilemma. All he wanted was to marry the Queen. However, he forgot to factor in that he would have to become King. He never wanted to rule a country. Gen had outwitted himself. THE KING OF ATTOLIA picks up soon after Gen and Irene were married. The people of Attolia have not embraced him as their King. In their eyes he was the \"goatfoot\" thief who had forced their Queen into marriage. Gen's behavior in court did nothing to endear him to his subjects. If he wasn't looking thoroughly bored, he was acting like a total fool. However, we all know that Gen is anything but a fool. Something's up, and that something keeps us guessing throughout the book. (hide spoiler) ] There were so many things that made THE KING OF ATTOLIA impossible to put down. MWT made the brilliant decision to tell the story from the point of view of Costis, one of the Queen's Guards, who is forced to spend most of his time with Gen while acting as his bodyguard. When the story began Costis's opinion of Gen reflected that of the Attolian people. (view spoiler) [He had little respect for the unworthy idiot who married his Queen (hide spoiler) ] . Much of the story unfolded through his mis interpretations. There was no way Costis could know that Gen was a master of deception. The intricate plot was full of political intrigue while Gen and Attolia attempted to keep one step ahead of the devious barons who would stop at nothing to steal the throne. Just about every character plots and schemes their way through the book. TRUST NOBODY . Most of the story takes place in the palace and it's grounds, thus there is no need of a map *smiles* Tempting as it is, I will refrain from gushing over Gen. We all know that he is pure awesomeness!(gushing, sorry!) In THE KING OF ATTOLIA Gen evolved from a clever little thief into a cunning man. It was also fascinating to learn more about Irene. And brave, loyal Costis! Even Relius had a fascinating story. Nobody is better than MWT in her ability to use simple gestures and looks as subtle hints. She has a gift for creating witty dialogue which never borders on silliness. She can make me feel every possible emotion imaginable. The twists and turns in her intricate plots keep me guessing until the very end. I expect to be gushing more in the future. First Read January 20 2013 Reread July 29 2015 ...more I loved this book, as I did the previous one, but then, I was kinda expecting to anyway, what with Turner's turn of phrase, heh. This is a short review, because there is no more to gush about than there already was in the previous books. Gen was smart and outwitted everyone, woo! As if we didn't see that coming. But it was still fun to watch him trip up the members of the Attolian court. The love between the queen and the king was a lot more tender in this story, although I was a little disappoi I loved this book, as I did the previous one, but then, I was kinda expecting to anyway, what with Turner's turn of phrase, heh. This is a short review, because there is no more to gush about than there already was in the previous books. Gen was smart and outwitted everyone, woo! As if we didn't see that coming. But it was still fun to watch him trip up the members of the Attolian court. The love between the queen and the king was a lot more tender in this story, although I was a little disappointed to find that the wedded Queen of Attolia kind of fades into the background. That was one of my few gripes with this novel, that someone so fiery and used to holding the reins suddenly just became this supportive wife who only flew into a rage in defense of her husband and was all to eager to see him take over her power. Uh-huh, I liked Irene better when she was chopping off people's hands and spitting in the Mede's face. Also, very little magus, Eddis or Sophos, all of whom I'm hoping return with a bang in the fourth book! To be honest, although I thoroughly enjoyed the third book, the second one was more breath-taking. But since Megan Whalen Turner has a great gift for storytelling, the third book in the King's Thief series was pretty damn un-put-downable too! ...more Oh god oh god oh god oh god. Why do I have to ship Gen and Costis so hard? Why? It's not even feasible. This book didn't have an interesting plot, in my opinion. Does it matter? Nah. Did I still enjoy the hell out of it? Yup. Am I dying to read the last volume? Absolutely. \"Let me arrest him, and I will drag the proof out of him.\" The queen shook her head. \"Why not?\" Teleus asked helplessly. \"Because the king will not quit, Teleus,\" said Ornon as he joined them. \"You must have noticed,\" he said. \" Oh god oh god oh god oh god. Why do I have to ship Gen and Costis so hard? Why? It's not even feasible. This book didn't have an interesting plot, in my opinion. Does it matter? Nah. Did I still enjoy the hell out of it? Yup. Am I dying to read the last volume? Absolutely. \"Let me arrest him, and I will drag the proof out of him.\" The queen shook her head. \"Why not?\" Teleus asked helplessly. \"Because the king will not quit, Teleus,\" said Ornon as he joined them. \"You must have noticed,\" he said. \"He whines, he complains, he ducks out of the most obvious responsibility. He is vain, petty, and maddening, but he doesn't ever quit.\" Ornon shrugged. \"Ever.\" ...more I. Love. This. Book. So. Much. Eugenides is back, and he's just as clever, sneaky, and conceited as ever! He is now the King of Attolia--well, in name, that is. Nobody wants to accept this queen-stealing, one-handed boy as king, especially Costis, a member of the queen's guard. But Costis learns that there is much more to this king than meets the eye... Edit to add: just re-read it for the umpteenth time. Still made of awesome. Oh my word. Megan Whalen Turner rewards devoted fans of this series by presenting a third installment that is suspenseful, plot-twistingly smart, and surprisingly romantic. When you read or reread MWT\u2019s books, you never do so with the intention that you\u2019ll completely understand how these characters\u2019 minds work. That\u2019s what I admire so much about this series\u2014even if, at times, I do not completely like the books. Do you know the difference? Eugenides and Attolia are not entirely likable: they\u2019re ea Oh my word. Megan Whalen Turner rewards devoted fans of this series by presenting a third installment that is suspenseful, plot-twistingly smart, and surprisingly romantic. When you read or reread MWT\u2019s books, you never do so with the intention that you\u2019ll completely understand how these characters\u2019 minds work. That\u2019s what I admire so much about this series\u2014even if, at times, I do not completely like the books. Do you know the difference? Eugenides and Attolia are not entirely likable: they\u2019re each way too clever, powerful, manipulative, and ruthless for me to actually want to be friends with them. I related most to something that Costis\u2019 friend Aristogiton said regarding loving the queen: he would follow her to the ends of the earth and give up his life for her, but he would never for anything be her lover or partner. Eugenides and Attolia clearly work together, yet we readers, just like pretty much all Eddisians and Attolians, cannot precisely describe how . In a ways, Megan Whalen Turner\u2019s unique narrative style allows this distant admiration of the two main characters. Instead of giving us the point of view of the narrator\u2014and furthermore, in MWT\u2019s case, the narrator(s) and main characters aren\u2019t necessarily one and the same!\u2014MWT often gives no character \u2019s point of view: the \u201cnarrator,\u201d the flimsy definition of which is just the character whose reactions might have been mentioned first in each scene, is simply an outside observer like us readers. The result is that THE KING OF ATTOLIA read like a true \u201cnovelization\u201d of a movie or TV show\u2014because, just like when you watch movies or TV, you see the actions and characters\u2019 reactions, but never entirely get their thoughts on matters, so you have kind of the same thing going on in KING. It\u2019s a rare occurrence in literature, and does nothing to help you better comprehend Eugenides, Attolia, and others, but it\u2019s precisely how MWT manages to keep readers on their figurative toes throughout the entire book, even if all the little action going on is confined within palace walls. The series stumbled for me a bit with The Queen of Attolia , because I thought that MWT\u2019s unique narrative style didn\u2019t work quite as well when the plot revolved around a multi-country war, but KING pulled me right back in by focusing more on characters and their relationships with one another. Like I mentioned earlier, KING rewards devoted fans of the series by the very fact that it keeps us out of the minds of the beloved main characters, making it so that the allure of the enigmatic continues to surround them even as we read more about them. I thought I had figured Eugenides out after accompanying him through two books, but that was not the case, and it delighted me all the more that I was never able to pin what I know down enough to successfully make any predictions about plot or character at all. THE KING OF ATTOLIA is a literary feast for the intelligent, for sure. Megan Whalen Turner keeps you on your toes right from the start, and continues to do so all the way to the end, where she still succeeds in shocking you. What a book. What an accomplishment. ...more I was prepared to like The King of Attolia , even love it. What I wasn\u2019t prepared for the feelings that occurred while reading it. I was constantly doused with a sense of anticipation, giddiness and frustration. It made me want to simultaneously devour this book and draw it out. Having read predecessors The Thief and The Queen of Attolia , it\u2019s safe to say that I was fairly engrossed in the world Megan Whelan Turner has created prior to reading this installment to her series. I have come to know th I was prepared to like The King of Attolia , even love it. What I wasn\u2019t prepared for the feelings that occurred while reading it. I was constantly doused with a sense of anticipation, giddiness and frustration. It made me want to simultaneously devour this book and draw it out. Having read predecessors The Thief and The Queen of Attolia , it\u2019s safe to say that I was fairly engrossed in the world Megan Whelan Turner has created prior to reading this installment to her series. I have come to know the kingdoms of Sounis, Eddis and been privy to glimpses of Attolia. I\u2019ve learned about their mythology and religion, and remained in awe of Turner\u2019s ability to create such an intricate world filled with multi-dimensional characters. I even came to care and root for a character that I initially found arrogant and a bit annoying (I\u2019m talking about you Eugenides). But even though Turner was able to implement all these success into enjoyable reads, I still doubted her. I doubted her because she included a romance that I couldn\u2019t fully buy into and it wasn\u2019t until I was mid-way through The King of Attolia that I realized that I had been had. I couldn\u2019t believe, that I, a fairly astute reader, had been played, just as many of the characters in this series are played, and you know what? I loved it! I loved that Turner built in a plot point that would allow readers to feel exactly as so many of the characters often feel within this story, not through them, but with them. If that isn\u2019t brilliant writing, I don\u2019t know what is. I\u2019m not going to summarize the plot, the blurb and several other better reviewers than I have already done so. All I\u2019ll say is this\u2026.Megan Whalen Turner is an author to respect, this series is one to read and re-read. These characters will engrain themselves into your heart and you will burst with pride at their successes. Everything about this series is clever, intricate and wholly entertaining. Read it, I promise you won\u2019t be sorry. ...more Clever and Cunning, The Thief is King No one said marriage is easy. The one between Eugenides, the spy/thief of Eddis and his sworn enemy the queen of Attolia seemed doomed from the start, a marriage of political convenience, imposed on Attolia by their rival kingdom. For how could the thief possibly love the queen responsible for the loss of his hand? But Eugenides is anything but predictable and has married the queen for love, even if by doing so he must leave his beloved Eddis behind. As the t Clever and Cunning, The Thief is King No one said marriage is easy. The one between Eugenides, the spy/thief of Eddis and his sworn enemy the queen of Attolia seemed doomed from the start, a marriage of political convenience, imposed on Attolia by their rival kingdom. For how could the thief possibly love the queen responsible for the loss of his hand? But Eugenides is anything but predictable and has married the queen for love, even if by doing so he must leave his beloved Eddis behind. As the third book in this excellent series starts, Eugenides is stranded in the Attolian palace. Ridiculed by the Attolian courtesans, despised by the Queen guards and his own attendants, he endures their daily pranks, pretending to be a guileless idiot while weaving a web of intrigue to gain his queen\u2019s heart and bring his enemies to their knees. If only he lives long enough. Cleverly plotted and beautiful written, the story moves at a fast pace to a satisfying conclusion that answers many questions while posing new ones, Is the Queen pregnant as her fainting may suggest? Where is Sophos, the heir of Sounis? Would he marry the Queen of Eddis? Would the political situation in a not distant future set Eugenides against his cousin, the queen of Eddis? The only thing I know for sure is that I\u2019m impatiently waiting for the King\u2019s return. ...more 4.5 King of Kings stars. Another excellent addition to The Queen's Thief series. I'm without words. this book is fan-freaking-tastic! My most favorite so far. This series is addicting. Original post at One More Page I did say that when I finished The Queen of Attolia , I cannot not pick up the next book, right? And that is very true -- soon as I finished that book, I immediately picked up The King of Attolia to know what happens next. Because really, after you're done with Queen , how could you not want to know? I'm going in circles, I'm sorry. Spoiler warning for The Thief and The Queen of Attolia from this point forward. Seriously, don't say I didn't warn you if you read on Original post at One More Page I did say that when I finished The Queen of Attolia , I cannot not pick up the next book, right? And that is very true -- soon as I finished that book, I immediately picked up \ufeff The King of Attolia to know what happens next. Because really, after you're done with Queen , how could you not want to know? I'm going in circles, I'm sorry. Spoiler warning for The Thief and The Queen of Attolia from this point forward. Seriously, don't say I didn't warn you if you read on and haven't read the first two books. So there is a new king in Attolia after years of not having one. But the Attolians aren't rejoicing because they do not believe in the king. The scheming people who want to remove the queen think it's easy to get rid of the king, too, while the loyal ones to the queen believe that the king is a fool. Reminiscent of school bullying, the Attolian court make life for the new king hard with various pranks and mockeries. But those pranks are nothing compared to an assassination attempt at the king. In the middle of all of this is Costis, a simple guard who did the wrong thing to the wrong person at the wrong time. This makes him an unwilling companion to the king, and privy to his personal moments with the queen. His contempt for the king soon fades away, when he realizes what we readers have known or a long time: that the king, Eugenides, the Thief of Eddis, is smarter and more cunning than everyone in the Attolian court combined. That, and he loves the Queen of Attolia and she loves him back. Again, I must say: Megan Whalen Turner is a genius . Or a GENius , because Eugenides is a genius. After reading the first two books in the series, I already know what Eugenides is capable of, so it felt like I was in on a big secret as I read the book. I felt sorry for Costis, but I was amazed at how the events unfolded. MWT is amazing with hiding things from the reader, and making us wonder about the schemes and secrets of her characters. We know that Eugenides is smart, but why does it feel like he's being beaten? What is the queen doing? Where is Eddis? But as good as she is with hiding things from the reader, she's also extremely skilled in revealing it bit by bit, and convincing readers of how it was all planned all along when we get to the end. It makes for a very, very satisfying read, and it made me fall in love with the series and the characters as I go on. The best part of this book, IMHO, was the romance. The romance took me by surprise in The Queen of Attolia , and a part of me had a hard time believing it. In The King of Attolia , this romance was proven. I don't think I fully understood how it came to be, but in the end, I was definitely convinced that these two people really love each other. (view spoiler) [My favorite scene (may be slight spoilery): After one moment of gripped immobility, the queen bent to kiss the king lightly on one closed eyelid, then on the other. She said, \"I love your eyes.\" She kissed him on either cheek, near the small lobe of his ear. \"I love your ears, and I love\" -- she paused as she kissed him gently on the lips --\"every single one of your ridiculous lies.\" (p. 218) Ah. <3 (hide spoiler) ] I think this is my favorite of all the books so far. The King of Attolia had me snickering, sighing, giggling and sighing again with satisfaction when I was done. I think this may be my favorite book in the series. I can't wait to get my hands on A Conspiracy of Kings . :) Oh, and you know what? I think this book will also make for very good rereading. I look forward to that, too. :) \"Am I king?\" ...more In a GR thread devoted to kid and YA books that we've loved, I mentioned the 2 Attolia books. When hunting for the link, I was so excited to find that a 3rd book had been written since the time I had raced thru the first 2, and drove out of my way to pick it up from the library branch that had it on the shelves instead of waiting for my requested copy to be sent to my local branch. It was worth it in every way! I had a perfect Saturday, curling on the couch reading this. And when I was done, I w In a GR thread devoted to kid and YA books that we've loved, I mentioned the 2 Attolia books. When hunting for the link, I was so excited to find that a 3rd book had been written since the time I had raced thru the first 2, and drove out of my way to pick it up from the library branch that had it on the shelves instead of waiting for my requested copy to be sent to my local branch. It was worth it in every way! I had a perfect Saturday, curling on the couch reading this. And when I was done, I went back to reread my favorite parts. *sigh* The only problem with it is that I finished in several hours! At first I was disappointed to find that the POV was thru the eyes of a new hostile character, but a few pages in I realized it was a perfect way to see how Gen is reacting to the unwanted burden of being king. These books are enthralling, and what's most exciting now is that while this book has a definite ending, Turner has left the door open for a possible continuation. Soon, Megan, please! ...more Eugenides is now officially one of my favorite characters ever. I shall post a review soon because I think this is a series that more people should be picking up. YES! That is all. If you\u2019ve read The Thief, Gen won\u2019t have you fooled in this book, but it sort of doesn\u2019t matter because the point of view character is Costis, a young soldier in the ranks of Attolia\u2019s guard, and he is completely taken in by Gen. As are most Attolians. It\u2019s a joy to watch Gen fooling the characters around him in just the way the reader is fooled when reading The Thief \u2014 and to try and keep up with the way he\u2019s thinking, why he\u2019s doing what he\u2019s doing, etc. It doesn\u2019t gloss over the problems inher If you\u2019ve read The Thief, Gen won\u2019t have you fooled in this book, but it sort of doesn\u2019t matter because the point of view character is Costis, a young soldier in the ranks of Attolia\u2019s guard, and he is completely taken in by Gen. As are most Attolians. It\u2019s a joy to watch Gen fooling the characters around him in just the way the reader is fooled when reading The Thief \u2014 and to try and keep up with the way he\u2019s thinking, why he\u2019s doing what he\u2019s doing, etc. It doesn\u2019t gloss over the problems inherent in the situation: the difficult relationship between Irene and Gen, the difficulty of getting her Attolian subjects to accept him, Gen\u2019s continuing issues with being so closely watched over by the God of Thieves\u2026 It keeps all the balls in motion, hinting at the further difficulties that will arise as Gen really becomes Attolia\u2019s king, while delivering a more or less satisfying storyline for Costis as well. He\u2019s a bit bland (not to mention easily fooled, at least from the reader\u2019s point of view, and not that perceptive), but his growing loyalty to Gen works well. Pacing-wise, I think this might be the most successful so far, but I don\u2019t have recent enough memories of The Thief to be sure. But really, I just enjoy the heck out of Gen making his own way through life, and darn how Eddis or Attolia or the gods think he should go about it. Originally posted here. ...more I am reading these way too fast. But they're just so damn good. Like The Queen of Attolia , The King of Attolia is another masterfully spun tale by Turner, this time in Attolia's capital city instead of Eddis, and in a supposedly time of peace rather than war. The focus of the story is shifted here with new characters, looking on at Gen as he resists and ultimately accepts his new role. Though I love the intricacy of the story, and how it's always the simple things that come back to tie everything I am reading these way too fast. But they're just so damn good. Like The Queen of Attolia , The King of Attolia is another masterfully spun tale by Turner, this time in Attolia's capital city instead of Eddis, and in a supposedly time of peace rather than war. The focus of the story is shifted here with new characters, looking on at Gen as he resists and ultimately accepts his new role. Though I love the intricacy of the story, and how it's always the simple things that come back to tie everything off, somehow the story didn't seem as focused as its predecessor, nor as intense. At this point though, Turner can do no wrong. And even though, her series is labelled as middle grade/young adult, it definitely is just as enjoyable for adults. ...more Nothing is at it seems. Eugenides is now the king of Attolia but he tries hard not to be..or is he? He is not loved and he is the focus of pranks from his own guard. Although the story is from the pov of Costis we learn a lot about the mysterious ways of the king. At the same time we can see how Costis's feelings change from hateful to respectful. Eugenides is one of the most interesting characters ever created in my opinion and I think this the best book so far in the series.", "Title": "The King of Attolia"},
