{"Comments": "Here's a fun joke you can play on someone! Loan them your copies of the Twilight books. Now, if you've chosen to play this joke on someone capable of experiencing love, wait for them to breathlessly return them to you. Then, when they ask you what other books you like, loan them the <---C>Sookie Stackhouse</---C> novels.<---F> Check in with them periodically</---F>. Smile and nod when they compare Bill to Edward. Bide your time. Wait until they've gotten through the first three books, and then ask them what they thought Here's a fun joke you can play on someone! Loan them your copies of the Twilight books. Now, if you've chosen to play this joke on someone capable of experiencing love, wait for them to breathlessly return them to you. Then, when they ask you what other books you like, loan them the Sookie Stackhouse novels. Check in with them periodically. Smile and nod when they compare Bill to Edward. Bide your time. Wait until they've gotten through the first three books, and then ask them what they thought of the part where Sookie was finger-banged by a manticore. Watch their face fall as they realize how plausible what you have just suggested sounds, based on what they have read. What makes this even better is that,<---M> as they continue through the books</---M>, they'll wish you had been telling the truth. These books are trash. Wet trash on a hot day. I can not, however, bring myself to stop reading them. The box set is like a fresh pack of cigarettes, and you only go through them faster as you go along. You know they're bad for you and you want to quit and all of your friends are encouraging you to stop, but late at night before you curl into bed, you take a few more drags from the next chapter. I blame that horrible mixed metaphor on the fact that I'm midway through book 6, and it's starting to affect my brain. ...more Fairy Dust (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ I have no idea how Sookie worked out who killed Claudette. (hide spoiler) ] Dracula Really quite odd. (view spoiler) [ not sure how Sookie got away with killing that vamp, no matter how annoying he was! (hide spoiler) ] One Word Answer Short story about Hadley's death, and I didn't like the one word answer when two questions were asked! Which question was she answering? Lucky Okay story, not sure why they thought themselves lucky though. Gift Wrap (view spoiler) [ not impressed. W Fairy Dust (view spoiler) [ I have no idea how Sookie worked out who killed Claudette. (hide spoiler) ] Dracula Really quite odd. (view spoiler) [ not sure how Sookie got away with killing that vamp, no matter how annoying he was! (hide spoiler) ] One Word Answer Short story about Hadley's death, and I didn't like the one word answer when two questions were asked! Which question was she answering? Lucky Okay story, not sure why they thought themselves lucky though. Gift Wrap (view spoiler) [ not impressed. What kind of great-grandfather gets his great-grandaughter a one night stand for Christmas? And how unlike sookie was it to actually partake? (hide spoiler) ] 6.5 out of 10 [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Bizarrely, this book of short stories made me think less of every character appearing in them. Fairy Dust: Not very illuminating. I guess Claudine was the only good one of those triplets. The mystery was pretty dim, including Sookie's eureka moment. Dracula Night: I did not need to see Eric starring in \"The Great Pumpkin\". On top of that, why on earth would Eric worship Vlad Tepes, who died in 1476? He's half Eric's age. And claiming Tepes created a Golden Age for vampires seems ridiculous. Bullsh Bizarrely, this book of short stories made me think less of every character appearing in them. Fairy Dust: Not very illuminating. I guess Claudine was the only good one of those triplets. The mystery was pretty dim, including Sookie's eureka moment. Dracula Night: I did not need to see Eric starring in \"The Great Pumpkin\". On top of that, why on earth would Eric worship Vlad Tepes, who died in 1476? He's half Eric's age. And claiming Tepes created a Golden Age for vampires seems ridiculous. Bullshit. One Word Answer: This should've been a scene in a larger book. Same as Fairy Dust, in that it's a totally tertiary situation that gets rushed through. Only useful as backstory for the series, where Hadley becomes more important. I do not understand the pivotal \"you knew she was in there the ENTIRE TIME!\" discussion. Why is this important. I do not know. Lucky: Probably the best out of all of them - I liked the idea that magic has consequences. Even small local magic. Gift Wrap: EW. EW! ---spoilers--- In one story, Jason gets semi-slandered, Sookie replays the first chapters of Book 4 with a total stranger, and Niall proves to be some sort of supernatural pimp. EW. Just stupid. So Sookie finds a man nearly dead in the woods, then defends him from a pack who show up to get him back, and then she has sex with the injured stranger. And the next morning, the \"injured were\" and the \"pack leader\" chat about how Niall arranged this all as a Christmas present for Sookie. You know - adventure and then random sex. THIS IS GROSS. This is gross, and I think less of EVERYONE INVOLVED. GROSS. Ahem. There's no good reason to read this. I thought I was missing something by sticking to the series, so I picked this up from the library. NOPE! NOT MSSING ANYTHING! Blech. ...more I felt cheated by this one. Somehow, these stories left me with the feeling that I just read a short advertisement for the Sookie Stackhouse series. I mean, Harris spends so much time explaining every single stinking detail of Sookie, her life, her friends in Bon Temps and the surrounding area, that very little story is left for the actual ... well, the actual story itself. And the stories don't really hold up well on their own. I mean, they fit nicely into the context of the larger series ~ if I felt cheated by this one. Somehow, these stories left me with the feeling that I just read a short advertisement for the Sookie Stackhouse series. I mean, Harris spends so much time explaining every single stinking detail of Sookie, her life, her friends in Bon Temps and the surrounding area, that very little story is left for the actual ... well, the actual story itself. And the stories don't really hold up well on their own. I mean, they fit nicely into the context of the larger series ~ if you already know and like the characters or want to get to know them better. But a short story should be it's own little mini-novel, right? These just don't read that way. Harris really overdid the explaining in these. She should have spent more time on content, less on the explaining of every aspect of Sookie's life. If the writing was good enough, the stories would work anyway. And the reader will be inspired to read the series ... in order ... and learn that Sookie considers her telepathy to be a disability, or that vamps came out after the mass production of Japanese synthetic blood... or any number of things that Harris needs to stop writing for the hundredth time. If a person picks up a series in the middle, it serves them right for being confused. And if a short story is good ... not everything needs to be explained. It doesn't. Ok ~ done with the rant ;) ...more Rating: three and a half smiley stars of five The Publisher Says : New York Times bestselling author <---A>Charlaine Harris</---A> has re-imagined the supernatural world with her \u201cspunky\u201d ( Tampa Tribune ) Southern Vampire novels starring telepathic waitress Sookie Stackhouse. Now, for the first time, here is every Sookie Stackhouse short story ever written\u2014 together in one volume. Stories include \u201cFairy Dust,\u201d \u201cOne Word Answer,\u201d \u201cDracula Night,\u201d \u201cLucky,\u201d and \u201cGiftwrap.\u201d My Review : How fun. Sookie Stackhouse in s Rating: three and a half smiley stars of five The Publisher Says : New York Times bestselling author Charlaine Harris has re-imagined the supernatural world with her \u201cspunky\u201d ( Tampa Tribune ) Southern Vampire novels starring telepathic waitress Sookie Stackhouse. Now, for the first time, here is every Sookie Stackhouse short story ever written\u2014 together in one volume. Stories include \u201cFairy Dust,\u201d \u201cOne Word Answer,\u201d \u201cDracula Night,\u201d \u201cLucky,\u201d and \u201cGiftwrap.\u201d My Review : How fun. Sookie Stackhouse in short tales that are placed within the Sookie-verse in gaps between the books. I think Harris has a superb grasp of what her readers expect and so has made her fortune with this clever, amusing set of tales. She delivers consistent and coherent world-building entries into the developing canon of stories. She makes certain her books have all the elements that have caused these otherwise slight stories to rocket to the top of the heap: Sex, spooks, sex, a likeable heroine, sex, and romantic entanglements. And sex. I will never offer these books as evidence of the cultural superiority of the Western world, but I also won't keep 'em behind the other books on the bookshelf, embarrassed to have anyone see that I read Charlaine Harris. I think her writing is perfectly adequate, but not much more than that; her imagination is the thing that makes her books worth reading. She's created an internally consistent and very plausibly presented alternate world, and in a lot of ways a world that I'd prefer to live in, if I could find a way there. The stories are fun by themselves; but my favorite one is the obligatory Christmas tale in which Sookie's newly discovered great-grandfather Niall the faerie king gives her the single most wonderful, thoughtful, and unusual gift I've ever heard or thought of. I won't give it away, but...like, wow. Recommended for fans of the series. Not a place to start. ...more Yippee!!!! The library finally has 4 copies, at least, and I've dropped to #3 on the waiting list :):) Oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah! I've had the email It's sitting waiting for me. Just in time for the long weekend :) :) Oh dear. It's too quick to read! Read one before I went to sleep last night. Another one in the middle of the night when I was awake and bored. Arrrgggh. If I let myself pick it up again I'll be finished it today! Sigh. And so it was. Over quickly. Too quickly. and now there'll be this extende Yippee!!!! The library finally has 4 copies, at least, and I've dropped to #3 on the waiting list :):) Oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah! I've had the email It's sitting waiting for me. Just in time for the long weekend :) :) Oh dear. It's too quick to read! Read one before I went to sleep last night. Another one in the middle of the night when I was awake and bored. Arrrgggh. If I let myself pick it up again I'll be finished it today! Sigh. And so it was. Over quickly. Too quickly. and now there'll be this extended wait till May, was it? Arrrggghh!!! Only 5, or was it 6 stories. And only a mouthful each. So to speak! ...more Fairy Dust is a short story in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. Claudine, the only fairy that Sookie has ever met, comes into the bar with a request for help. And while fairies are notoriously bad tippers, Sookie will get paid for using her telepathic powers, so she agrees. They go to Claude\u2019s house (Claudine\u2019s brother, identical, who knew?) where Sookie, in her unique way, questions three of Claude\u2019s work colleagues at the exotic dance club, Hooligans. Fairy Dust is a short story in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. Claudine, the only fairy that Sookie has ever met, comes into the bar with a request for help. And while fairies are notoriously bad tippers, Sookie will get paid for using her telepathic powers, so she agrees. They go to Claude\u2019s house (Claudine\u2019s brother, identical, who knew?) where Sookie, in her unique way, questions three of Claude\u2019s work colleagues at the exotic dance club, Hooligans. Claude and Claudine are certain that one of the three murdered their triplet (yes, there were three of these beautiful people!), Claudette. The culprit is uncovered, revenge is extracted, and the reader learns a bit about the fairies in the Sookieverse. A small but enjoyable dose of Sookie. ...more I am not a particular fan of short stories, so read this just for the sake of completeness after finishing the Sookie novels. In the collection of five stories, I found \"One Word Answer\" the most interesting especially with the mention of Marie Laveau, an actual person in the history of New Orleans who also appears in Barbara Hambly's Benjamin January series. Featuring Amelia and a brief appearance by Bob, \"Lucky\" was an enjoyable and cute read. 3.5 stars. I thoroughly enjoyed this collection of short stories, so much so that I was about to give it 4 stars. I think my enjoyment has a lot to do with the fact that I didn't have to pay $23.95 to read it. As a free offering, it's a great entertainment. In no way is Charlaine Harris is a great short story writer or a writer period, and yet her books are like crack to me - can't get enough of them, even though I know they are not good in any literary sense. Yes, some of the stories suffer from 3.5 stars. I thoroughly enjoyed this collection of short stories, so much so that I was about to give it 4 stars. I think my enjoyment has a lot to do with the fact that I didn't have to pay $23.95 to read it. As a free offering, it's a great entertainment. In no way is Charlaine Harris is a great short story writer or a writer period, and yet her books are like crack to me - can't get enough of them, even though I know they are not good in any literary sense. Yes, some of the stories suffer from too abrupt resolutions (\"Dracula Night\" and \"One World Answer\") or lack of any kind of conflict (\"Gift Wrap\"), but I didn't care, I enjoyed the characters, new and old, the breeziness of the narration, and Sookie herself, whom I now find to be amusingly overconfident in her own intelligence. Also, it turns out she is quite tartier that I originally thought, based on the events of \"Gift Wrap.\" All in all, this book is a nice entertainment, especially for Sookie enthusiasts and series completists. Wouldn't care to pay a hard cover price for it though. ...more Another fun read. If you haven't read any Sookie Stackhouse before, this isn't a great introduction. Harris relies on the books for the world setting, but does fill in enough details to keep the chronology within the series correct. \u201cFairy Dust\u201d is after the events in \"Dead to the World\" & is pretty good. It's a murder mystery with Claudine & Claude in it. \u201cDracula Night\u201d happens before \"Dead as a Doornail\" & was probably my least favorite story of the bunch. It takes place mostly in Another fun read. If you haven't read any Sookie Stackhouse before, this isn't a great introduction. Harris relies on the books for the world setting, but does fill in enough details to keep the chronology within the series correct. \u201cFairy Dust\u201d is after the events in \"Dead to the World\" & is pretty good. It's a murder mystery with Claudine & Claude in it. \u201cDracula Night\u201d happens before \"Dead as a Doornail\" & was probably my least favorite story of the bunch. It takes place mostly in Fangtasia with Eric & Pam. I just can't see Eric quite that far out there. \u201cOne Word Answer\u201d takes place after \"Dead as a Doornail\" & fills in more about Hadley, although the story takes place in Sookie's yard. I enjoyed it. \u201cLucky\u201d happens after \"All Together Dead\" & was another mystery that was fun, but I like Amelia. \u201cGift Wrap\u201d happens before \"Dead and Gone\" & might be my favorite. It's quite a bit different than most of the stories. ...more Wow. This book was lame. No new story, just five stories already published in other short story collections. Two-page illustrations in front of each story and really big font to make you feel like you actually read a book instead of a glorified Sookie Stackhouse brochure. I'd only read one of the stories before, unfortunately for me it was apparently the best of the bunch. \"Gift Wrap\" was plain awful. \"Fairy Dust\" is unimpressive (ooh, Sookie's so clever and uses her extreme cleverness to solve Wow. This book was lame. No new story, just five stories already published in other short story collections. Two-page illustrations in front of each story and really big font to make you feel like you actually read a book instead of a glorified Sookie Stackhouse brochure. I'd only read one of the stories before, unfortunately for me it was apparently the best of the bunch. \"Gift Wrap\" was plain awful. \"Fairy Dust\" is unimpressive (ooh, Sookie's so clever and uses her extreme cleverness to solve crime!) \"Lucky\" trots out the uneducated idea of Limited Good and pretends like it's legitimate. Bo-ring. This book is a shameless attempt to milk money out of fans of the Stackhouse series. Good thing I got it from the library. Take that Ace Books suckas! Alternatively, may I suggest you get your fix by reading Many Bloody Returns, which includes the only good story from this collection, and also introduced me to the fun fiction of Jim Butcher & Rachel Caine. ...more I don't know how to rate these novels - my husband told me to start a 'guilty pleasures' book shelf and put them on there and rate them accordingly, but I'm not ready to start making separate shelves yet! They're totally trashy & when I read the first one I originally thought \"this is so poorly written & trashy, who reads these?\" Quickly I was sucked in and read every single last page of every single book in the series along with a short stories book. (I mean, it only take a brief evenin I don't know how to rate these novels - my husband told me to start a 'guilty pleasures' book shelf and put them on there and rate them accordingly, but I'm not ready to start making separate shelves yet! They're totally trashy & when I read the first one I originally thought \"this is so poorly written & trashy, who reads these?\" Quickly I was sucked in and read every single last page of every single book in the series along with a short stories book. (I mean, it only take a brief evening to read one!) I'm anxiously awaiting the next book in the series, number 11 I think? For literary merit I'd have to give them 1-2 stars, but I'm giving them 4 because I'm being honest with myself and everyone else & not being ashamed of the fact that these are very entertaining books. (Especially if you're into poorly written smut, like me. :)) Oh yeah, I have a total CRUSH on Eric - boo Bill, YAY ERIC! Here's hoping Sook chooses wisely! (The short stories are definitely not as good as the books in the series, but worth reading because they fill in a lot of gaps.) ...more <+++>A Touch of Dead</+++> is an omnibus of five short stories in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. Fairy Dust: Claudine, the only fairy that Sookie has ever met, comes into the bar with a request for help. And while fairies are notoriously bad tippers, Sookie will get paid for using her telepathic powers, so she agrees. They go to Claude\u2019s house (Claudine\u2019s brother, identical, who knew?) where Sookie, in her unique way, questions three of Claude\u2019s work colleagues at <+++>A Touch of Dead</+++> is an omnibus of five short stories in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris. Fairy Dust: Claudine, the only fairy that Sookie has ever met, comes into the bar with a request for help. And while fairies are notoriously bad tippers, Sookie will get paid for using her telepathic powers, so she agrees. They go to Claude\u2019s house (Claudine\u2019s brother, identical, who knew?) where Sookie, in her unique way, questions three of Claude\u2019s work colleagues at the exotic dance club, Hooligans. Claude and Claudine are certain that one of the three murdered their triplet (yes, there were three of these beautiful people!), Claudette. The culprit is uncovered, revenge is extracted, and the reader learns a bit about the fairies in the Sookieverse. A small but enjoyable dose of Sookie. Dracula Night: Eric invites Sookie to celebrate Dracula Night at his nightclub, Fangtasia. Dress-code cocktail wear, so she buys a new dress, pink with sequins. She\u2019s quite amazed at Eric\u2019s almost groupie-like hope that Prince Dracula himself might grace their humble club, and consequently, his judgement is a little off. But Sookie has her finger on the pulse, and takes the necessary action, although this draws the ire of the club\u2019s patrons. A mini-dose of vampire fun. One Word Answer: Whilst Sookie is doing some evening yard work with Bubba the Vampire, visitors arrive in a fancy black limo. The passenger brings news of the death of Sookie\u2019s cousin Hadley, and a legacy coming her way. But Sookie is interested in how her cousin met her end, something that, apparently, the vampire limo driver knows more about. Sookie is grateful that her talent for telepathy allows her to keep a poker face when the full story is revealed. Bubba shows some initiative when it matters. Sookie\u2019s enigmatic one word answer may not please all readers, but is guaranteed to bring a smile to most. Lucky: Sookie and her current houseguest, Amelia Broadway, get a visit from Insurance agent, Greg Aubert. He\u2019s worried that someone has been going through his files. With a combination of spells and psychic talents, Amelia and Sookie find out just who has been in Greg\u2019s office, and quite a bit more besides. A vampire refugee is discovered, and Sookie is tempted by a puppy. A nice little interlude between Sookie instalments. Gift Wrap: Alone on Christmas Eve and feeling sorry for herself, Sookie takes a walk in the woods behind her house, checking if there is any sign of what caused the noise that briefly woke her in the night. A naked, injured and definitely gorgeous man is not what she expected to find, but unable to ignore someone in need, Sookie takes him back to her house. The remainder of her evening is also quite unexpected, though hardly unwelcome. And the surprise guest who shares her Christmas Dinner is perhaps the most unexpected of all, but one who ensures that Sookie\u2019s Christmas is indeed a happy one. A sweet and funny dose of Sookie. ...more A Touch of Dead consists of 5 short stories that fall in various places in the Southern Vampire Series, featuring heroine Sookie Stackhouse. I absolutely love that Harris has collected up all of the Sookie short stories into one volume. Now I really wish all the other series that I read would do the same thing! The stories in A Touch of Dead fall in various places throughout the Sookie novels, and are thoughtfully put in chronological order in the collection. Some give us a little more back-stor A Touch of Dead consists of 5 short stories that fall in various places in the Southern Vampire Series, featuring heroine Sookie Stackhouse. I absolutely love that Harris has collected up all of the Sookie short stories into one volume. Now I really wish all the other series that I read would do the same thing! The stories in A Touch of Dead fall in various places throughout the Sookie novels, and are thoughtfully put in chronological order in the collection. Some give us a little more back-story about events that we\u2019ve read about in the series, while others just tell a fun little Sookie side-story. The stories in the order the occur in Sookie\u2019s life are \u201cFairy Dust\u201d (from Powers of Detection), \u201cDracula Night\u201d (from Many Bloody Returns), \u201cOne Word Answer\u201d (from Bite), \u201cLucky\u201d (from Unusual Suspects), and \u201cGift Wrap\u201d (from Wolfsbane and Mistletoe). I\u2019m assuming these stories were also written in that same order because they get better and better as they go along. \u201cFairy Dust\u201d tells the story of how Fairies Claudine and Claudette lost their triplet Claudette. While I enjoyed getting back-story on the Fairy twins, I found the mystery to be a bit confusing. I was tired when I read this story, so that could have something to do with it, but this was my least favourite of the bunch. \u201cDracula Night\u201d is a fun little story that has Sookie joining Eric and Pam at Fangtasia to celebrate Dracula\u2019s birthday. No real information in relation to the series, but a cute story nonetheless. \u201cOne Word Answer\u201d gives us much-wanted back-story on how Sookie learned of her cousin Hadley\u2019s death. I was thrilled to finally learn how Hadley\u2019s death fit into the greater story told in the Southern Vampire novels. \u201cLucky\u201d is another cute story that doesn\u2019t have much bearing in the series, but is still a very enjoyable read. Featuring Sookie and her new housemate Amelia, \u201cLucky\u201d has the two ladies playing a little supernatural detective as they try to uncover who has been messing with the local insurance agents. Fun stuff that had me wishing Sookie played detective more often! \u201cGift Wrap\u201d, the final story in the collection tells the story of Sookie\u2019s most recent Christmas. A great little story that had me smiling, \u201cGift Wrap\u201d features a new character that I\u2019d love to see more of (despite the fact that that doesn\u2019t seem likely to happen), and a bit of twist that made for a great ending. Overall, A Touch of Dead is a very enjoyable read, and a must have for any Sookie lover! This review was originally posted at http://withagoodbook.com/ ...more This was a lovely little addition to my Sookie Stackhouse collection. Although I had read most of the books before reading these short stories and could see where they would fit on the timeline you really don't need to read them in order. The only disappointing thing - I finished them way to quickly. There are a total of five stories which are all very good: Fairy Dust This is a miniature mystery as Sookie is asked by her fairy godmother to investigate the death of her sister. Along the way we are This was a lovely little addition to my Sookie Stackhouse collection. Although I had read most of the books before reading these short stories and could see where they would fit on the timeline you really don't need to read them in order. The only disappointing thing - I finished them way to quickly. There are a total of five stories which are all very good: Fairy Dust This is a miniature mystery as Sookie is asked by her fairy godmother to investigate the death of her sister. Along the way we are also introduced to the very handsome (but gay) Claude who would later become a feature of the book published following this story. Dracula Night During this story Eric invites Sookie to Fangtasia to celebrate Dracula's birthday. Eric absolutely worships Dracula, but unfortunately his night doesn't turn out quite the way he had hoped. One Word Answer This story concerns the death of Sookie's cousin Hadley, an event that will prove influential in the following books. Unfortunately as I read this after reading the books I was already a little familiar with what happened in this story, but even so it was a pleasant read. Lucky Another mystery, this time much more light hearted. Sookie investigates who may be trying to sabotage Bon Temps' insurance agencies. Gift Wrap During this very short story Sookie is confronted by a very mysterious, very handsome stranger and while it didn't really connect too much to the books, it was a sweet way for Sookie to spend Christmas Eve and the right note to end this volume on. ...more Terrible. Also, the final story features the most disturbing and generally wrong present ever given by a great-grandfather to his great-grand-daughter. Plus, in its entirety so dull that even people who actually think Harris can write will be bored. Brevemente... Fairy Dust This story is about Claude and Claudine. I never knew they were actually 2 of a set of triplets. That's one of the joys of short stories slipped between novels in a series. You get little glimpses and facts that just aren't neccesary to canon, but are sure fun to read. My favorite line in the story is at the end when Claudine says \"Fair is only part of Fairy as letters of the alphabet.\" It sounds so menacing, and since I picture Claudine as Liv Tyler in my head, I can just see her sayi Fairy Dust This story is about Claude and Claudine. I never knew they were actually 2 of a set of triplets. That's one of the joys of short stories slipped between novels in a series. You get little glimpses and facts that just aren't neccesary to canon, but are sure fun to read. My favorite line in the story is at the end when Claudine says \"Fair is only part of Fairy as letters of the alphabet.\" It sounds so menacing, and since I picture Claudine as Liv Tyler in my head, I can just see her saying it. Dracula Night Sookie is invited to Fangtasia for a birthday party in honor of Dracula. Yes, Dracula. THE Dracula. It's something Eric does every year with the anticpiation of being graced with the presence of a true star in the Vampire world. I love when we get little snapshots of Eric being \"human\". It's been 1000 years, so when he still shows some spark of life, it's pretty thrilling. His excitement in this story was adorable, and even when his hopes were dashed at the end, he perks up with thoughts of \"maybe next year\". Sookie shows us, once again, that she is a pretty smart, Southern cookie, and not just a psychic barmaid. One Word Answer In this story Sookie learns of the death of her cousin Hadley and meets Mr. Cataliades and the Queen of Louisiana. Bubba makes an appearance which is always welcome and brings a smile to my face. Bill rushes to the aid of \"his\" Sookie, and just like the last story, Sookie shows us just how smart she really is. Lucky This is my least favorite. I can suspend disbelief with the best of them. I mean that's obvious, since I love Sookie, the vamps, weres, shifters and witches, right? But believing one person can use up all the luck in the vicinity? That seems a little silly to even me. Gift Wrap Sookie is alone on Christmas Eve. Poor thing. This was a fun story that could have fit anywhere in the series. I don't see anything that pertains to any other stories, other than a few events Sookie references. All I can say is, only Niall, a 1000+ year old, fairy great-grandfather would think of a no strings attached evening of physical pleasure as the perfect Christmas gift. He was right;) ...more Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series has really hit it big. Besides being a nice mix of the occult and humor, everyone is diving into the long-popular series since it has been converted into a television show on HBO. This volume collects a number of stories that have been written over the years and included in collections of vampire tales from popular writers in the genre. In \"Fairy Dust,\" readers got their first chance to meet Claude AND Claudine, two twin fairies that eventually play a major role i Harris' Sookie Stackhouse series has really hit it big. Besides being a nice mix of the occult and humor, everyone is diving into the long-popular series since it has been converted into a television show on HBO. This volume collects a number of stories that have been written over the years and included in collections of vampire tales from popular writers in the genre. In \"Fairy Dust,\" readers got their first chance to meet Claude AND Claudine, two twin fairies that eventually play a major role in Sookie's life. In this case, they have approached Sookie so she can use her psychic abilities to help identify which employee of a local strip club killed the third sibling in their triplet set. \"One Word Answer\" connects the citizens of Bon Temps with New Orleans when Sookie learns what happened to her long lost cousin who disappeared a short time earlier. It turns out that she ended up becoming a vampire before being dusted, but she had connections to the high vampire court. In \"Lucky,\" Sookie and Amelia, a new character in the series and a friend with a quirky talent in witchcraft, find themselves on a case. They have been asked by a local insurance agency to find out why people seem to be after him. And finally, Sookie gets a little bit of Christmas in \"Gift Wrap.\" She was gearing up for a quiet holiday since everyone she knew was busy with their own family obligations while she was running a little short with having a family of her own. That all changes when she runs across a badly wounded Were in the woods. She brings him home to her home to help clean him up and protect him from another group of Weres out to hurt him, leading to quite a pleasant time. The stories are fun, and fans of the series will find that they either fill in some background information or further some character development. It would be difficult for readers not familiar with the novels in the series to know what is really going on. ...more This book was passed to me by my older sister, who is not a reader. That I know of, she had read two books in her life, and then Sookie Stackhouse and the HBO TrueBlood series came along and for the first time in her life she was anxiously waiting for a book release and asking for books for Christmas. So when she finished this one she brought it to me because she wanted me to love it too. That's sweet. I hadn't read any of Harris' books but figured there must be some fantastic writing for her to This book was passed to me by my older sister, who is not a reader. That I know of, she had read two books in her life, and then Sookie Stackhouse and the HBO TrueBlood series came along and for the first time in her life she was anxiously waiting for a book release and asking for books for Christmas. So when she finished this one she brought it to me because she wanted me to love it too. That's sweet. I hadn't read any of Harris' books but figured there must be some fantastic writing for her to have turned someone like my sister into a reader, so I looked forward to this. It's appalling. Halfway through the first story I began to wonder if this series had actually been intended for children. The sentences are so short and the vocabulary so narrow that I felt like I was reading something just slightly more advanced than a school primer. The characters are one-dimensional, like stick figures, with descriptions that are little more than, \"This vampire is tall, blonde and hot.\" By the second story I was sure that it was written by a child. A thirteen year-old had to be meeting publisher's deadlines in between orthodontics appointments and homework assignments. Nope, there's a picture of a grown woman on the backflap. Which just leaves me more confused than ever- what could possible have made this awful writer a best-seller? I just don't get it. I'm sending my sister a copy of Shirley Jackson. * ...more and what a christmas present it was This gorgeous and sleek book contains five short stories by Charlaine Harris that up until now were included in other anthologies. They're all about Sookie Stackhouse and take place between certain books in the series. I think the UK/Australian cover is absolutely gorgeous. This is the US cover, which is really cute too. And the inside is just as stunning. There's an introduction by Charlaine herself, and a two-page illustration at the beginning of every story. Now, here's a little about the sto This gorgeous and sleek book contains five short stories by Charlaine Harris that up until now were included in other anthologies. They're all about Sookie Stackhouse and take place between certain books in the series. I think the UK/Australian cover is absolutely gorgeous. This is the US cover, which is really cute too. And the inside is just as stunning. There's an introduction by Charlaine herself, and a two-page illustration at the beginning of every story. Now, here's a little about the stories... FAIRY DUST : A fairy walks into a bar, seriously she does. Claudine walks into Merlotte's looking for Sookie. She and her brother Claude need Sookie's help to figure out who killed their triplet, Claudette. They've got three human suspects - a stripper, a bouncer, and the owner of the club. This is a short but fun story where Sookie uses her telepathic ability to figure out who killed the fairy. I enjoyed it heaps, and liked finding out a little more about Claudine, Claude and fairies in general. DRACULA NIGHT : When Eric invites Sookie to Fangtasia for an annual vampire event that celebrates Dracula's birthday, she agrees to go. She also finds out that Eric is quite the Dracula fan who secretly hopes that Dracula will make an appearance at his party. But when the person who claims to be the Lord of Darkness shows up, the unexpected happens. I enjoyed this one too. It was a lot of fun to see the cool, calm, and collected Eric acting a little neurotic. Pam was great in this little story, her side comments made me laugh. ONE WORD ANSWER : While Sookie is doing some late-night gardening with Bubba, a limo arrives at her house. A man who claims to be a lawyer by the name of Mr. Cataliades gets out and tells her that her cousin Hadley is dead, but that's not all he's there to tell her. His visit entails more revelations then she expected. I really liked the simplicity of this story. It's a straightforward tale that gives Sookie some answers about her estranged cousin, but also has a few very cool twists in the end. Well-worth reading. LUCKY : When Greg Aubert pays Sookie a visit, hoping she'll help him figure out who's been sneaking past his spell to get into his insurance office at night, Amelia and Sookie investigate. What that entails is a telepath (Sookie) and a witch (Amelia) following one clue after another, until Sookie can find whoever's responsible. Who would've thought that someone could hog all the luck in one town? This was a great story that captured not only Sookie's world, but what makes a short story really work. I loved it! GIFT WRAP : Sookie's all alone on Christmas Eve, but when she goes for a walk in the woods and finds an injured Were, she insists on taking him home to make sure whoever attacked him doesn't return to finish him off. But the mysterious stranger brings a little festive magic to her night. This delicious tale was excellent. I wasn't expecting the sneaky twist at the end, but loved it. A Touch of Dead is a collection that every Sookie Stackhouse fan should own and will love. I know I did! ...more All of these stories were published in other anthologies, so it's possible they can be rereads; I know I'd encountered at least one before reading this volume. The story arcs and timelines of the full length Sookie novels are pretty tight; as a result, the stories aren't a part of the timeline, and with one exception, don't contain information that's pertinent to the rest of the books. Some of the stories I definitely liked more than others; hell, in the introduction, Charlaine Harris tells us th All of these stories were published in other anthologies, so it's possible they can be rereads; I know I'd encountered at least one before reading this volume. The story arcs and timelines of the full length Sookie novels are pretty tight; as a result, the stories aren't a part of the timeline, and with one exception, don't contain information that's pertinent to the rest of the books. Some of the stories I definitely liked more than others; hell, in the introduction, Charlaine Harris tells us that she likes some of the stories better than others, so I guess the rest of us can as well. Round 1: Fairy Dust details Sookie's attempt to find out who murdered the third of a set of fairy triplets; Claudine, her fairy godmother, and Claude, the self-obsessed stripper, being the other two. It's a quick story but does give some insight into the viciousness of the fairies that populate Sookieland. These ain't no Tinkerbells, people. Round 2: Dracula Night is about the vampire version of Christmas, New Year's, and your birthday all wrapped up: Dracula's Birthday. Eric is a complete fanboy in this story and it reminds you of why Eric seems like a nice guy sometimes. Oh, and Sookie is completely kick ass. Round 3: One Word Answer is the one story in this collection that adds something to the rest of the Sookie novels. Here's where we first meet Mr. Cataliades (one of my FAVORITE side characters ever, by the way) and find out what really happened to Sookie's cousin Hadley, which lays the groundwork for her going to New Orleans and getting messed up in even more shady vampire business. She also meets Quinn as a result of the events in this story. Sookie uses her brain to triumph over supernatural assholes in this story, which is always fun. Round 4: Lucky is the most left-field of the stories and is about Sookie and Amelia-the-witch's attempts to find out who's making life miserable for Sookie's insurance agent, who happens to use magic to extra-insure his clients. It's an interesting story and is the perfect length for what it entails; the lesson that using magic has consequences is pertinent. Round 5: Gift Wrap is the story of a particularly lonely Christmas Eve for Sookie and her great-grandfather's attempt to liven things up. It's a fun story that introduces some interesting one-time (I think?) characters. Sookie gets some from a dude that doesn't have treacherous ulterior motives, which is admittedly a nice change. Poor Sookie. Anyway, the collection as a whole is fun, but I have to admit, I'm glad I didn't pay hardcover price for the book, which is on the short side. If it comes out in paperback it might be a fun book to have, even just for bragging rights for having all the Sookie books, but otherwise it's a great candidate to get from the library. Overall Grade: B Read more reviews at What Book is That? ...more While I have never ever seen a single episode of the famous HBO Series \u201cTrue Blood\u201d (I know, I know! But I was way-beyond the target demographic by the time the series came out, so perhaps you might be able to forgive me.), I have been reading the tales of Sookie Stackhouse for quite a while now. I remain one of the more ardent readers of supernatural/paranormal-themed anthologies, and Charlaine Harris\u2019 stories are usually star attractions therein. However, before I even begin my ramblings about While I have never ever seen a single episode of the famous HBO Series \u201cTrue Blood\u201d (I know, I know! But I was way-beyond the target demographic by the time the series came out, so perhaps you might be able to forgive me.), I have been reading the tales of Sookie Stackhouse for quite a while now. I remain one of the more ardent readers of supernatural/paranormal-themed anthologies, and Charlaine Harris\u2019 stories are usually star attractions therein. However, before I even begin my ramblings about the present book, let me make it clear that either the publishers should delete the word \u2018complete\u2019 from the cover, or else they should update the volume ASAP, since a lot of stories dealing with our spunky heroine have come out in the years since October 2009 (when this hardcover had come out). After a brief introduction (aimed more at the regular readers of the series, rather than people like me who stay away from the novels, and only cherish the short bursts of pleasure provided by short stories), we have the stories which are: 1.\tFairy Dust 2.\tDracula Night 3.\tOne Word Answer 4.\tLucky 5.\tGift Wrap None of the stories need any introduction, since all of them are eminently readable (repeatedly, albeit with some gaps) and every visitor to the world of Sookie knows them by heart (if you are yet to have that pleasure, I suggest you begin at the beginning, and then pick up this collection). However, the collection was somewhat deficient in two counts, resulting the dropping of a star: (I)\tNo information has been given about the first publication of these stories. (II)\tThe cover and the interior illustrations are absolutely rubbish, and it\u2019s hard to understand why such a reputed publisher couldn\u2019t get hold of a good artist for a volume that is bound to be cherished by the readers. Recommended, definitely. ...more A Touch of Dead (Sookie Stackhouse #4.1, 4.3, 5.1, 7.1 & 8.1) is a collection of short stories from the Sookie Stackhouse series, and honestly I haven't read any of it. BUUUUUUUT this book had totally gotten me cause I'm into all the supernatural books. However,I didn't like it that much so I'm giving it 3 stars. *Fairy Dust* In this story Sookie is unraveling a mystery surrounded by the death of Claudette, the triplet of Claudine and Claude. Sookie as we all know has the ability to read mind A Touch of Dead (Sookie Stackhouse #4.1, 4.3, 5.1, 7.1 & 8.1) is a collection of short stories from the Sookie Stackhouse series, and honestly I haven't read any of it. BUUUUUUUT this book had totally gotten me cause I'm into all the supernatural books. However,I didn't like it that much so I'm giving it 3 stars. *Fairy Dust* In this story Sookie is unraveling a mystery surrounded by the death of Claudette, the triplet of Claudine and Claude. Sookie as we all know has the ability to read minds. And she uses this to find out who the killer is. I really liked this story because it has supernaturals and mystery *Dracula Night* Is a story wherein Sookie is invited to a party She joins Eric and Pam to Fangtasia wherein they will celebrate Dracula's birthday. I really didn't understand this story much but it was a funny one *One Word Answer* A story wherein Sookie learned of her cousin Hadley's death.This is the one where I'm not exactly sure what happened. *Lucky* This is the story where Sookie and her housemate, Amelia, will be supernatural detectives.They try to uncover the mystery of who have been messing with the insurance agents. And after reading this story we will know how this story got its title:) *Gift Wrap* The final story of the Touch Of Dead. A story that has been the best for me in this entire book. It features a new character wherein Sookie will be attached to(well for the meantime only). Overall the story was a great read!:) ...more A collection of Sookie Stackhouse short stories. If you've ever picked up a Sookie Stackhouse book and wondered who were those characters, and where did they come from, and why don't I remember a single thing about them (see also: Have I lost my mind and bought in the wrong series?!), this is the book for you. Actually, these were helpful, and did explain a lot. It's not completely necessary to read them in chronological order, as they should appear between the books, but that might help too. I spe A collection of Sookie Stackhouse short stories. If you've ever picked up a Sookie Stackhouse book and wondered who were those characters, and where did they come from, and why don't I remember a single thing about them (see also: Have I lost my mind and bought in the wrong series?!), this is the book for you. Actually, these were helpful, and did explain a lot. It's not completely necessary to read them in chronological order, as they should appear between the books, but that might help too. I spent two books wondering where on earth Claudine came from. It was only during a Sookie binge when I had the flu last year and read all of them on my kinde in about 4 days that I realized I should be looking somewhere else and discovered that the answer lay in a short story anthology. I didn't buy that anthology, but I felt less crazy for the moment. (It was a short moment. I mean, I did have the flu.) thanks to Ms. Harris for putting these together for us. ...more 2nd re-reading this time by audiobook. I have the hardbook and the audiobook. My rating hasn't changed for this book. It's good but not as good as the other books in the series. I really disliked the story of her Fairy Grandfather setting up some stupid story about a hurt werewolf just so she'd have some lovin' that would make her feel better. She's usually not a one-night stand girl and the manipulation was just cringy. Otherwise, the stories are good. I'm going to have to wait until later on in the year when the next book comes out for my Sookie fix, because this just didn't cut it. There's a story where Eric thinks Dracula will come to his party which is mildly amusing. That's about as much faint praise that this book is going to get. Sookie 4.1 If you've ever wondered: 1. What happened to Claudine and Claude's sister Claudette. 2. How Claudine and Claude came into procession of Hooligans. 3. What happens when you kill a fairy. It was so fun to visit with my old friends in Bon Temps again. Simple, fun, short stories, like a little leftover candy. Finishing the book was bittersweet.", "Title": "A Touch of Dead"},
