{"Comments": "I really enjoyed this book, and I look forward to reading the next book. It is a fairly standard fantasy story - orphan is rescued from a horrible life and is found to be the holder of great power and the possible savior of the nation/world. There are bad guys and treachery and so on. It is a bit uneven in places and there is a bit more repetition that I would like, but otherwise quite good. My biggest quibble is not with the book but with the many reviewers,<---M> here and elsewhere</---M>, who compare it to I really enjoyed this book, and I look forward to reading the next book. It is a fairly standard fantasy story - orphan is rescued from a horrible life and is found to be the holder of great power and the possible savior of the nation/world. There are bad guys and treachery and so on. It is a bit uneven in places and there is a bit more repetition that I would like, but otherwise quite good. My biggest quibble is not with the book but with the many reviewers, here and elsewhere, who compare it to The Lord of the Rings series. Apart from the dark big bad, the plot has very little in common with LOTR. The main character is a GIRL for one thing, a creature that is very rare in Tolkien. Yes, the author has made up a language and a history, with appendices, for her book and country, but this is not exclusive to Tolkien. There are no Hobbit like creatures, no ring of power, etc, etc. Heck, there are not many modern fantasy writers who DON'T have elements of Tolkien in them, and many who create whole worlds. I think it does the author a disservice really, and doesn't let the book's own merits shine. And I see far more traces of other authors, like Garth Nix and Kate Constable to name a couple, than I do of Tolkien. ...<---F>more -- The Pellinor Series -- (5</---F>.5/10) <+++>The Naming</+++> (Book One) I found Alison's writing to be rather obvious, full of clich\u00e9s, and on the whole unsatisfying. When one of the main protagonists almost died, I found myself indifferent as the main characters were of a relatively uninteresting sort. Her analogies were overused (e.g., \"eyes as wide as saucers\"). The conversations seem contrived, and the emotional state of being of her protagonists are volatile and explicitly stated rather then revealed by th -- The Pellinor Series -- (5.5/10) <+++>The Naming</+++> (Book One) I found Alison's writing to be rather obvious, full of clich\u00e9s, and on the whole unsatisfying. When one of the main protagonists almost died, I found myself indifferent as the main characters were of a relatively uninteresting sort. Her analogies were overused (e.g., \"eyes as wide as saucers\"). The conversations seem contrived, and the emotional state of being of her protagonists are volatile and explicitly stated rather then revealed by the characters actions. I think the book is geared towards a younger audience as I imagine a 13 year old girl might enjoy the book and better connect with things like her repeated references to a the newly discovered woes of a woman's menstrual cycle... Her invented language of the \"Speech\" is a fairly un-original \"magic system\", and while she may have gone through some effort to develop that language, I don't care or appreciate it. Overall, the book was a bit formulaic and slow, although not bad. ...more If it weren't so good, I would say this book is a mixture of every other fantasy book on the block. Test: can you match each plot line with another famous work? ...The \"chosen one\" is raised in a secluded farm, identity hidden...The girl was trained in musicianship by the local bard, and her prodigious talent allows her to be named as a bard when she finally arrives at the school...While travelling together, the neophyte receives instruction from a famous bard with a slightly sinister past...Unde If it weren't so good, I would say this book is a mixture of every other fantasy book on the block. Test: can you match each plot line with another famous work? ...The \"chosen one\" is raised in a secluded farm, identity hidden...The girl was trained in musicianship by the local bard, and her prodigious talent allows her to be named as a bard when she finally arrives at the school...While travelling together, the neophyte receives instruction from a famous bard with a slightly sinister past...Understanding the words of the ancient speech are crucial...The evil black riders, each a hull of a person turned to the dark side, pursue the travelers...They receive hospitality from a beautiful but immortal queen who rules over a hidden nation...When they finally arrive at the great city, which is a fortress built in nine circles, they are shocked to find evil has penetrated to its heart... Croggan has potential as a fantasy writer but she needs to invent her own plot lines!! ...more This book is very slow paced. Most of it is a travel log of the scenery, and the level of detail is much more than is needed. Any potential tension is completely lost in these sections. I didn't feel like I knew or understood the world very well by the end. We're told a great deal about the landscape, a bunch of intricate but insignificant objects (furniture, etc.), and some ancient history, but very little about the current history and politics which are supposedly driving the character's action This book is very slow paced. Most of it is a travel log of the scenery, and the level of detail is much more than is needed. Any potential tension is completely lost in these sections. I didn't feel like I knew or understood the world very well by the end. We're told a great deal about the landscape, a bunch of intricate but insignificant objects (furniture, etc.), and some ancient history, but very little about the current history and politics which are supposedly driving the character's actions. [Note: Some of this information is included in the 21-page Appendices, but I didn't read them.] The characters were not uninteresting, but the reader is kept at a distance from the main characters (and their secrets) until the end. Then, they get interesting! Unfortunately, I'm not willing to slog through the over-descriptions again (since the next book appears to also be mostly a travel log) on the hope the characters will stay interesting. On the positive side, there was no sex or cussing. All that said, if you like slow, \"fat\" books, then you probably will enjoy this book. ...more I truly loved reading this book, and I re-read it constantly. The plot is teased out through out the book in an expert manner with characters that are believable and loveable. With so many twists and revelations it would be easy for a lesser writer to waver, and yet The Naming (or The Gift as I know it in the UK) is an amazing work of fiction which captures my imagination and heart every time I read it. A once slave is liberated from her morbid life and thrown head first into a battle between go I truly loved reading this book, and I re-read it constantly. The plot is teased out through out the book in an expert manner with characters that are believable and loveable. With so many twists and revelations it would be easy for a lesser writer to waver, and yet The Naming (or The Gift as I know it in the UK) is an amazing work of fiction which captures my imagination and heart every time I read it. A once slave is liberated from her morbid life and thrown head first into a battle between good and evil, yet the author does not fall into the trap of then portraying her characters as either wholly black or white, but there are many grey areas in between. The world where this epic takes place is a land where magic resides in Bards, a musical bunch of magicians essentially, which gives the story a different side which is both refreshing and timeless. The plot unfolds at just the right pace, allowing for everything to happen without everything happening at once, which shows true skill. Overall this book is a gem, and has pride of place on my bookshelf, along with a few others. I can't imagine ever being bored of reading this book, as it is just too good to only read once! ...more So, I'm going through my reviews right now to make some of them less trollish and whatnot, since when I was 15 I apparently didn't really know how to review books (or bother to capitalize, punctuate, etc.). Anyway ... sadly, I can't do a very good review for this book because I no longer remember it very well. I only remember that it just couldn't hold my interest very well. I really wanted to like it because one of my best friends loves the series ... but, well, she is into epic fantasy and I'm So, I'm going through my reviews right now to make some of them less trollish and whatnot, since when I was 15 I apparently didn't really know how to review books (or bother to capitalize, punctuate, etc.). Anyway ... sadly, I can't do a very good review for this book because I no longer remember it very well. I only remember that it just couldn't hold my interest very well. I really wanted to like it because one of my best friends loves the series ... but, well, she is into epic fantasy and I'm really not, as hard as I've tried to give it a chance. So, if you enjoy the type of book with people riding through the forests on horses and fulfilling prophecies and whatnot, then you'll probably enjoy this. It's just not my type of thing. ...more The Naming is a traditional style fantasy with many familiar fantasy elements that are regardless fresh (to my mind), although others might not think so. This is an epic tale of the sort that made me love fantasy in the first place, and I can't say I mind the nostalgia for classic fantasy that this familiarity evokes. In many ways it did remind me of the LOTR - in the formal tone of the language, the songs, the descriptions of nature (particularly woods), the mood that presses in on you from the The Naming is a traditional style fantasy with many familiar fantasy elements that are regardless fresh (to my mind), although others might not think so. This is an epic tale of the sort that made me love fantasy in the first place, and I can't say I mind the nostalgia for classic fantasy that this familiarity evokes. In many ways it did remind me of the LOTR - in the formal tone of the language, the songs, the descriptions of nature (particularly woods), the mood that presses in on you from the memories of the land itself, the rising conflict between Light and Dark, the travels through often-hostile countryside, and the havens full of light and wonder that break up the danger and darkness of the journey. These are all aspects of the LOTR that I love, and while reading The Naming , I relished that feeling which I have found is rare in other fantasy. Actually, I can't really think of anything that has so pleasantly reminded me of Tolkien's work in tone and description before. I especially love the juxtaposition of light and darkness throughout the book - danger, injury, and low spirits are contrasted with the growth of new friendship, the opportunity to rest, eat and bathe, and to take in some of the beauty of the world. I quickly grow tired of fantasy that focuses mainly on the dark. Here we also have light, and not just a sliver of it. All of that said, this is enough its own story not to be a Tolkien ripoff. The feeling and tone is there, but the plot itself is completely different. First of all, the story focuses on a girl, and the storytelling also feels more personal, dealing with her emotions and internal struggles. It starts out with <---C>Maerad</---C>, a slave-girl, who is discovered and rescued by a bard, Cadvan (bards are mages). The rest of the book reveals who she is, and why the Dark and the Light care who she is. It deals with her struggles to find her sense of self when everything she knows has been completely turned upside down. She must learn to read, to fight, to trust, to discern whom not to trust, and to control the magic that she's not even aware she has. The only constant in her life is her music. In the midst of Maerad's attempts to adjust to a new life, the Dark is already ahead of her and all around her, attempting to stop her before she realizes her power and finds her purpose. She is protected and guided by Cadvan, who is also trying to figure out who she really is before it's too late. There are prophecies, dreams, and visions. There is a sense of urgency, of time running out. There is betrayal, and there is loyalty. It's a lot of fun to read. In short, I loved it, and I've already started the second book. ...more The pace is not too slow, but not too quick. The characters are not too bland, but not too unique. The writing is good but not great. But instead of being the baby bear of fantasy novels, this one ended up being very run of the mill. I felt like I'd read the story before (the danger of reading too much in one genre), with nothing in this book making it really stand out. I eventually got bored with it and stopped reading about two thirds through. I LOVED these books. If I could give them 10 stars, I would. The writing was BEAUTIFUL. I have never felt so at home in a book before as I felt in these. Rich, vibrant descriptions and characters and amazing story!! I admit, I kind of judged a book by its cover with this one. The cover art was pretty and the spine design was also pretty. The blurb on the back cover made the book sound intriguing and I went home and read reviews. The reviews for this book were mostly positive, so I thought, \"Hey, why not?\" POTENTIAL SPOILERS. READ AT OWN RISK. In a word, this book is: boring. So extremely slow-going. The book clocks in at nearly 500 pages. While fantasy is known for its longer books, I've read some books where I admit, I kind of judged a book by its cover with this one. The cover art was pretty and the spine design was also pretty. The blurb on the back cover made the book sound intriguing and I went home and read reviews. The reviews for this book were mostly positive, so I thought, \"Hey, why not?\" POTENTIAL SPOILERS. READ AT OWN RISK. In a word, this book is: boring. So extremely slow-going. The book clocks in at nearly 500 pages. While fantasy is known for its longer books, I've read some books where the 500-page length is pulled off well and seems justified. But at least 50 or so pages could have been cut without losing any essential plot. Too many unnecessary scenes and details. We are treated to a description of nearly every landscape the characters come across. We learn about many different traditions different cultures had. While it helped with the world-building and created a storng fictional world, I think some of this information could have been conveyed without an info-dump. As an extra bonus, readers also get a scene describing Maerad's first period! Fun! >.< The characters weren't very interesting. Maerad was okay at first, but she quickly became a cliche \"Chosen One.\" She was also very whiny. Yes, she's sixteen, but she became annoyingly whiny. Cadvan seemed like a typical Gandalf/Obi-Wan/Dumbledore mentor. While not unlikable or annoying like Maerad, he simply didn't feel original or interesting. I liked Hem's character. While his whole (view spoiler) [being related to Maerad thing (hide spoiler) ] was completely predictable, he was still one of the most interesting and well-rounded characters in the book. One thing that bothered me was how the whole \"Chosen One\" thing played out. While it was blatantly obvious that Maerad was the Chosen One(since no good fantasy book was ever about the Non-Chosen One), it was handled poorly. Cadvan spends most of the book speculating that Maerad might be the Chosen One and then it's revealed that she is. It was anti-climatic. We all ready knew she was going to be the Chosen One. It wasn't a moment of, \"Oh, cool!\" It was a moment of, \"'Kay, I knew that all ready. Can we move on now?\" The writing style in this book was okay. I've read Croggon is a poet and it shows. She definitely wrote some very beautiful descriptions and lines in this book and the poetry was, for once, not painfully cheesy. However, she would sometimes get waaay too into the whole Ye Old Medieval Tymes talka and it got annoying. Overall, The Naming is not a book I recommend. It was slow-going, plodding, and lacked likable characters. ...more \"Maerad is a slave in a desperate and unforgiving settlement, taken there as a child when her family is destroyed in ar. She is unaware that she possesses a powerful Gift, a Gift that marks her as a member of the School of Pellinor. It is only when she is discovered by Cadvan, one of the great Bards of Lirigon, that her true heritage and extraordinary destiny unfolds. Now, she and her teacher Cadvn must survive a perilous journey through a time and place where the dark forces they battle with st \"Maerad is a slave in a desperate and unforgiving settlement, taken there as a child when her family is destroyed in ar. She is unaware that she possesses a powerful Gift, a Gift that marks her as a member of the School of Pellinor. It is only when she is discovered by Cadvan, one of the great Bards of Lirigon, that her true heritage and extraordinary destiny unfolds. Now, she and her teacher Cadvn must survive a perilous journey through a time and place where the dark forces they battle with stem from the deepest recesses of other worldy terror.\" This is on the back of \"The Naming\" (called The Gift in NZ). This book was on a sale table for about $5. I was looking for something new to read and had never heard of <---A>Alison Croggon</---A> and thought that if I liked it I would go to the library and borrow the rest of the series. I was only at the end of Chapter 1 when I knew that I had to own the series. I was transported into her world and held riveted. Her story is reminiscent of Tolkien, but anyone who writes fantasy is influenced / compared to Tolkien. The language used conjures skillful imagines and believable characters. Thank goodness I found the series when the final book has been released \u2013 I don\u2019t have to wait for books in the series to be published (and it\u2019s the summer holidays in NZ). Can't wait to start the next book \"The Riddle\" ...more 4.5! I greatly loved reading this one, I kept it on hold for a little while, but now I'm glad I decided to finished it! Now, this is what I call High Fantasy! \u201cThere is no shame in not knowing something,\u201d he said gently. \u201cThe shame is in not being willing to learn.\u201d Wow....just wow! We follow our protagonist, Maerad, a very helpless slave desperately trying to stay alive in the world of evil, with lovely hidden talents. Then comes Cadvan, who's character is the most inspiring in the entire book! He 4.5! I greatly loved reading this one, I kept it on hold for a little while, but now I'm glad I decided to finished it! Now, this is what I call High Fantasy! \u201cThere is no shame in not knowing something,\u201d he said gently. \u201cThe shame is in not being willing to learn.\u201d Wow....just wow! We follow our protagonist, Maerad, a very helpless slave desperately trying to stay alive in the world of evil, with lovely hidden talents. Then comes Cadvan, who's character is the most inspiring in the entire book! He comes and rescues her from all the slaves who'd like her dead, also tells her about the great gift she possesses. I loved how he decided to take her to his own hometown, and keep her secure...he really cared about her! He's one of the most generous character's I've read of, as he also agrees to take a boy they meet in a not-so-abandoned house with him, although he gets a bit irritated, who wouldn't? There was a long way to be traveled in this book, it felt real slow-paced, but I still enjoyed it pretty much, considering all the interesting challenges they come up to on there incredible journey! Look, If you're a fan of High Fantasy and love LotR, this should definitely be your next read! ...more Not only was I seduced by the pretty uk version cover of this book (which i listened to in a pricey audio format) but it came highly recommend, so I really wanted to like this book and its fair to say I did like this book... but only for a little while. I liked this book very much at the start. The setting in particular. One cant help but wonder how our young Maerad, will escape and what clever way she will find to do so. I found myself imagining the slave settlement a bit like the setting in the Not only was I seduced by the pretty uk version cover of this book (which i listened to in a pricey audio format) but it came highly recommend, so I really wanted to like this book and its fair to say I did like this book... but only for a little while. I liked this book very much at the start. The setting in particular. One cant help but wonder how our young Maerad, will escape and what clever way she will find to do so. I found myself imagining the slave settlement a bit like the setting in the 90's Amiga 500 game- \"another world\" But meh - that's how geeks roll. My first disappointment was the escape scene. I Can't help but feel it could of been done in a more dramatic way, with more imagination. A man puts a spell on her and she\u2019s invisible and just walks out? com'on.\" I didn't expect shawshank but surely something a bit more compelling could of been thought up of? Even the dogs, who could of at least then added the thrill of the chase got closed down just as it got...well er thrilling? I Would loved to of scene the author really show us something with more depth, or with a bit more edge. Perhaps she does later on in the book? But I didn't find out as around 30% in to the book I stopped, and put it down. I couldn't finish it. Another negative which is reserved only for the audiobook was the narrator, who did a fine job until they started singing! how did they get this gig when part of the story is all about singing? couldn't they of got a second voice over in for those parts from a gifted songstress? its really did take some of the authenticity away from the story since much of a bards power comes from an outstanding singing voice. Getting back to the story, I found it very unoriginal - \"Yawn. You are the chosen one. You happen to own the most priceless musical bard equipment that only legend talks of... (That hasn't been noticed or stolen before) blar blar, You've saved the life of you mentor twice already even though he's much more experienced/wiser then you & all without any effort because your gift is of such power...and after that point? Now guessing but... don't tell me! She saves the world? The end? Job done. Sigh. ...more The Naming is from the \"coming of age\" genre, but is more the \"I've gotten through puberty and now am trying to figure out who I am and it would be easier if I were someone magical or famous or something other than I am now\". I suppose it is a book of self-discovery, though that isn't quite right either. The story is fairly straightforward and Potterian. Maerad is an orphan slave girl with some unusual qualities that have kept her from being victimized as most of the young female slaves are. The The Naming is from the \"coming of age\" genre, but is more the \"I've gotten through puberty and now am trying to figure out who I am and it would be easier if I were someone magical or famous or something other than I am now\". I suppose it is a book of self-discovery, though that isn't quite right either. The story is fairly straightforward and Potterian. Maerad is an orphan slave girl with some unusual qualities that have kept her from being victimized as most of the young female slaves are. Then she meets a man in the cow barn who no one else can see - again, she has unusual qualities and they become more and more obvious and important - and he helps her escape. They face a perilous journey through dark lands together. She learns about the Light, the Dark, and a host of other things, that lead her to the discovery of her own place in this world. She is, it turns out, the One of a prophecy and her fate is to save the world. The book is well written and the mythology, language and culture of this world are convincing. The author deals well with the loss of the security of the known that all young adults must cope with as they move from childhood to adulthood. The loss is all the more difficult for Maerad because she was late to discovering the security that childhood should provide. Simply adjusting to the new perspective of adulthood is difficult enough without having bills and broken cars and other responsibilities thrown at you - or being the fated savior of the world. A bit too much romance for me - but well done and not desperate and negating. I am sad when a young woman can't simply be friends with men - in real life or in literature. But no bee-training. Maerad comes into her powers gradually and fairly believably. It is part of a series and it seems worth reading the next one. ...more A great read, I thoroughly enjoyed it and have gone straight onto Book 2 in the series. A tale of a young woman rescued from slavery, who is found to be someone special with hidden talents. Her rescuer helps her find out who she is and to develop her skills and talents. Their journey is arduous, thrilling and fraught with danger at times. A thrilling magical fantasy story and a great start to the series. This book had a very old-fashioned feel to it. By that I mean it was written in a similar fashion to Lord of the Rings. I quite enjoyed it. Full review to come! This was an interesting series to me when I read it. It contained intriguing characters and despite having been set in the YA fiction section it read more like it was targeted at a slightly older readership. Its monsters, its world, its villains and its prophecies were like The Lord of the Rings but were their own creature. I still remember the creatures that were so well described. And the idea of how the titular character's gift worked was fascinating compared to magic systems I've encountered This was an interesting series to me when I read it. It contained intriguing characters and despite having been set in the YA fiction section it read more like it was targeted at a slightly older readership. Its monsters, its world, its villains and its prophecies were like The Lord of the Rings but were their own creature. I still remember the creatures that were so well described. And the idea of how the titular character's gift worked was fascinating compared to magic systems I've encountered since. It was well written and still haunts my imagination. One day I'll reread them because of their magnificence. ...more The Naming is the beginning of Alison Croggon's well received Books of the Pellinor, a young adult fantasy trilogy centered around the land of Edil-Amarandh. Reading through the appendices reveals that Edil-Amarandh precedes Atlantis as a mythical continent that simply disappeared (presumably, of course, this is all Croggon's creation, but at least it's an interesting way to bring the Books of the Pellinor to the real world). As the first book in a trilogy it does a fine job establishing the plo The Naming is the beginning of Alison Croggon's well received Books of the Pellinor, a young adult fantasy trilogy centered around the land of Edil-Amarandh. Reading through the appendices reveals that Edil-Amarandh precedes Atlantis as a mythical continent that simply disappeared (presumably, of course, this is all Croggon's creation, but at least it's an interesting way to bring the Books of the Pellinor to the real world). As the first book in a trilogy it does a fine job establishing the plot and the world, giving us a clear view of all the basic things we need to know in order to continue through the second and third books. The Naming follows Maerad, a slave girl with an extraordinary musical talent who accidentally discovers a man named Cadvan. Except, she's not supposed to be able to see through Cadvan's spell-induced invisibility...unless she is a bard like him. It soon becomes clear that Maerad is more than just a lowly slave girl and outside of her prison she finds that darkness is returning to Edil-Amarandh and the brief glimpse of joy she had after having escaped will be short lived indeed. Croggon is quite the world builder, to say the least. Edil-Amarandh is almost as richly detailed as Tolkien's Middle Earth. That's saying something here. Few books can have that sort of detail and succeed; Croggon's novel passes with flying colors on this front. Everything from the lay of the land to the hierarchy of the bards, even a little on the personal aspects of characters one might not expect in a book in the first place; all these things are delved into by Croggon so we get a good sense of what this place is like. There's a good amount of dialogue and narrative devoted to establishing this world and for the most part it works. The characters in this novel are fairly easy to be sympathetic towards. This is a young adult novel, yet it reads very much like a novel meant for adults. Maerad, however, does deal with issues of pertinence to the teenage community, particularly issues of \"growing up\" (as a woman, mind you) and coming into her new found power, whilst dealing with the past she never knew. Cadvan acts the part of mentor, in a way, but has a fair amount of depth to take him over the hump from the cliche. It should also be mentioned that Croggon's narrative style is stunning. She writes with superb skill, which I find tremendously refreshing in this modern age of commercial fantasy. Her prose is beautiful and alluring, fluid and surprisingly poetic. It's not perfect, but she certainly can weave a good sentence. I had two problems with Croggon's writing in this novel. The first was the seeming necessity for dialogue that reads somewhat Shakespearean (though, thankfully, not so Shakespearean that I wanted to drop the book). The second problem was the very obvious \"Tolkien\" feel. The names and even certain elements of the world itself feel almost as if they were lifted right out of Lord of the Rings. I doubt this was intentional. It wasn't enough to prevent me from finishing the story (it's an entertaining read after all), but it should be noted nonetheless. I think one thing that could be improved is injecting a deeper and more creative feel to Edil-Amarandh. Other issues were the slightly simplistic plot line, particularly where Croggon tried to be rather clever in regards to a riddle, only I saw through it almost immediately. Perhaps there are strange twists in the next two books, however, that make my current assumptions quite wrong (I actually hope so, because I like being proved wrong in fantasy). We'll see. Also, I'd hope that in future books there is less of Cadvan telling Maerad things. I get that the characters are bards, who are known for telling tales and what not, but he doesn't have to explain in great detail everything. Some things can be left for Maerad to discover (or perhaps Maerad could learn them by furthering her interests in the subject of lore). Overall, the novel was actually quite good. It was entertaining, dealt with some tough issues that I've not seen done well in fantasy, or anything for that matter (particularly certain things with Maerad, which I won't spoil here, as you should read the book to understand). I did enjoy the richness and depth of her world, despite some flaws I saw with it. I am quite fond of fantasy that is capable of making a world feel lived in, as opposed to just randomly created so the author could write a novel. Croggon gives me the impression that she didn't create this world overnight, or even over a year. It feels like a decade in the making. Maerad is a great character to center on, too, and I found myself deeply interested in what happened to her. To add, the action and pacing were relatively flawless. Basically, this is a darn good book for fantasy readers young and old. It's a great introduction for younger folks who find Tolkien's windy prose too \"classic\" feeling, and a welcome treat for adult readers looking for something with a little classic adventure with depth. ...more I found this book by chance at the university book store and cannot express how happy I am that I did! I have been craving a good series since the end of Harry Potter and this book definitely got me hooked. This is a fantasy/adventure novel that reminds me in many ways of The Lord of the Rings trilogy. However in this series you have the young Bard, Maerad, as the heroine who follows the classic plot line of a \"diamond in the rough\" destined to save her world from the utter destruction of the Nam I found this book by chance at the university book store and cannot express how happy I am that I did! I have been craving a good series since the end of Harry Potter and this book definitely got me hooked. This is a fantasy/adventure novel that reminds me in many ways of The Lord of the Rings trilogy. However in this series you have the young Bard, Maerad, as the heroine who follows the classic plot line of a \"diamond in the rough\" destined to save her world from the utter destruction of the Nameless One. The only thing that I didn't like about this book was the seemingly endless tarrying in the wilderness. It seems Croggen could have cut out a bit the monotony of Maerad and Cadvan's journey by hurrying them along a bit quicker to their destinations. However, I enjoyed her landscape descriptions and if you can let yourself become emmersed in imagining the vivid landscapes Croggen so intricately describes then you can easily overlook the slight dullness of a few parts in the book. Overall, I completely enjoyed the First Book of Pellinor and have already finished the second one (see my review of The Riddle). ...more Basically every fantasy owes its existence to Lord of the Rings, but some take it to a whole new level. The Naming is straight up LOTR with Chosen One plot. Most of the characters and settings have direct parallels to LOTR, and not even in the archetype-way. You can say that Dumbledore and Gandalf fill the same mold, but Lady Ardina and Galadriel are the same person. Also Hulls are Black Riders. And Nameless One? Psssshhhaw his name is Sauron. And Cadvan's past comes beat for beat from Wizard of Basically every fantasy owes its existence to Lord of the Rings, but some take it to a whole new level. The Naming is straight up LOTR with Chosen One plot. Most of the characters and settings have direct parallels to LOTR, and not even in the archetype-way. You can say that Dumbledore and Gandalf fill the same mold, but Lady Ardina and Galadriel are the same person. Also Hulls are Black Riders. And Nameless One? Psssshhhaw his name is Sauron. And Cadvan's past comes beat for beat from Wizard of Earthsea (as does the Speech). But, I still liked it. Descriptions of landscapes and food were appealing, and I always like it when authors create languages for their books. I also liked how music and poetry were central to the magic system. Also the Chosen One is a girl! And it doesn't ignore the existence of periods! So, while this book has little originality to offer, it does what it does well as a enjoyable fantasy. Also I remember the sequels branching off more from the heavy borrowing of trope fantasy characters and plots... ...more The Naming has some great adventure and I like the characters, though they're not as developed as I'd like. It felt like this book was more of an introduction to the coming books, a setting of the scene introducing the many characters and the conflict. It's a sloooow-moving book, to be sure. Nice vocabulary but an overuse of exclamation points! And you know how I am biased towards those who overuse exclamation points! This is a book for adolescents... I wonder how well it goes over with them. The The Naming has some great adventure and I like the characters, though they're not as developed as I'd like. It felt like this book was more of an introduction to the coming books, a setting of the scene introducing the many characters and the conflict. It's a sloooow-moving book, to be sure. Nice vocabulary but an overuse of exclamation points! And you know how I am biased towards those who overuse exclamation points! This is a book for adolescents... I wonder how well it goes over with them. There's so much description and a little too much repetition...to the point that I wanted to skim to get to something good. I appreciate the importance of setting and giving a mental image to the reader, but perhaps not so much when the book is a quest and the setting changes so frequently. I think I will read the other books, though there are so many books I want to read, so we shall see. Is it weird that the major conflict is the re-rising up of \"The Nameless One\"? Crikey. And that the main character has foretelling dreams about this Nameless One? Ring any bells? ...more 2.5 stars This one's going to be a tough one to review! This book was very well written with incredible world building and even an appendix at the back explaining the history of the world further. Which I liked as I always love to get into a good fantasy world, but I felt things could have been edited down a bit. Like the descriptions, I felt this book described non-magical everyday situations in far too much detail when only a brief description was needed. I also felt the characters could have h 2.5 stars This one's going to be a tough one to review! This book was very well written with incredible world building and even an appendix at the back explaining the history of the world further. Which I liked as I always love to get into a good fantasy world, but I felt things could have been edited down a bit. Like the descriptions, I felt this book described non-magical everyday situations in far too much detail when only a brief description was needed. I also felt the characters could have had more depth to them as they each had very colourful backgrounds but it didn't feel like there was anything exciting about them personality-wise. The action scenes could have been more suspenseful not to mention more frequent.However on saying that I really did love all the revelations about the characters and world as the story moved along. I will read the next book but since this one felt like a long haul I won't hurry to the next one. ...more ** This is just a QUICK REVIEW of my thoughts on the book ** Largely boring and very typical: orphan girl of mysterious parentage discovers she has magical powers, is shunned by her peers, goes on a journey with traveling mage/warrior and lives at his house. Maybe not quite exactly, but I remember it was very clich\u00e9, largely uninteresting and the journey went on FOREVER (\u201clook at this tree, there's another tree, oh see another tree\u201d). Gave it up as not worth reading; couldn't understand why every ** This is just a QUICK REVIEW of my thoughts on the book ** Largely boring and very typical: orphan girl of mysterious parentage discovers she has magical powers, is shunned by her peers, goes on a journey with traveling mage/warrior and lives at his house. Maybe not quite exactly, but I remember it was very clich\u00e9, largely uninteresting and the journey went on FOREVER (\u201clook at this tree, there's another tree, oh see another tree\u201d). Gave it up as not worth reading; couldn't understand why everyone likes it so much?!? Is there a Happy Ending? I didn\u2019t finish it, but I would guess so. Content Rating: I don\u2019t remember. But I do recall it kept going on about her period pains and at one point he had to explain the mysteries of womanhood to her\u2026 Romance Rating: It wasn\u2019t doing anything for me by the time I gave it up. ...more https://thebookwars.wordpress.com/201... Originally reviewed on The Book Smugglers Ana\u2019s take: I\u2019d seen The Naming around Goodreads and was intrigued by it but not enough to actually pick it up. I was glad when this showed up in the OSW recommendations. The Naming was a weird book for me to read. It had tons of potential: tropes and scenarios I am familiar and comfortable with plus the fact that the main character was a girl (when often boys happen to be Chosen Ones). But I had a really hard time with the book because it was so boring and Originally reviewed on The Book Smugglers Ana\u2019s take: I\u2019d seen The Naming around Goodreads and was intrigued by it but not enough to actually pick it up. I was glad when this showed up in the OSW recommendations. The Naming was a weird book for me to read. It had tons of potential: tropes and scenarios I am familiar and comfortable with plus the fact that the main character was a girl (when often boys happen to be Chosen Ones). But I had a really hard time with the book because it was so boring and I just couldn\u2019t get into it exactly because it was so familiar to the point of being derivative. There were things that could be considered \u201csubverting\u201d these familiar tropes (more on that later) but they were perhaps too minor or too superficial to mean anything of substance. That said, The Naming was an important read for me because it served to highlight and reinforce what I kind of already knew: how tired I am of the Chosen One trope, how much I dislike overly descriptive books and how I am might be over Epic Fantasy for now. Thea\u2019s Take: Like Ana, I\u2019ve had my eye on The Naming for a while now. This is a book I frequently see lurking on shelves at my local bookstores and across the interwebs, and until recently, it has been one of those pick-it-up-read-the-blurb-put-it-back kind of books (love the cover and title, but there was never anything particularly OOMPH-y about the book that compelled me to buy it in the past). When this book surfaced on our OSW readalong poll list, I was thrilled because finally I had a reason to get into the Pellinor series. And\u2026I\u2019m a little ambivalent when it comes to the actual book. I enjoyed certain aspects of the novel (and the story, when it is moving along and not just focused on the mind-numbingly mundane minutia of walking through the countryside and eating biscuits and berries and such). And, like Ana, I appreciate that the book attempts to subvert familiar tropes by instituting an unapologetic female character as its heroine and the Chosen One Who Will Save The Land From The DARK. That said, the book is needlessly protracted, the main character is (obviously) unparalleled in terms of abilities and power, and the story is a little bit reductive and familiar. The Naming isn\u2019t a bad book \u2013 but it\u2019s not a particularly memorable one, either. Discussion Questions 1. Clearly, THE NAMING has some familiar, old school fantasy influences \u2013 which influences were the most apparent to you? Did this heavy reliance on traditional fantasy work in your opinion? Ana: It\u2019s funny how I saw so many influences from favourite books (Tolkien\u2019s Lord of the Rings the most obvious one) but those left me cold here. I think this book was far too derivative, the world-building far too close to that of Tolkien (I mean, there is even an honest-to-Goddess Galadriel replica) for me to be able to enjoy it. The writing style, the long pieces of description and the \u201clet\u2019s walk all the way to Mordor\u201d all reminded me of LoTR. It actually made me seriously wonder if I would be able to read (and enjoy) LoTR if I attempted a re-read now and I suspect the answer would be \u201cno\u201d. Thea: There\u2019s a fine line between homage and mimicry, and while The Naming has a few interesting ideas in terms of worldbuilding, the heavy Tolkien influences (and a little bit of GRRM, Susan Cooper, and J.K. Rowling) did not work to the book\u2019s credit. The Naming borrows too heavily from its influences and works too closely to these older classic motifs, framing this book as a blandly predictable LOTR/Dark is Rising/Harry Potter rehash. There\u2019s the entrenched and increasingly corrupt fellowship of Bards that refuse to Read the Signs that the Dark is Rising; there\u2019s the downtrodden, orphaned girl who does not understand the Great Power she wields or her illustrious past and destiny. And to Ana\u2019s point, not only is there a Galadriel figure in The Naming, but there are also \u201cdark bards\u201d called Hulls and an old evil king that has become a paradigm of evil (named Sardor). There\u2019s an honest to goodness sorcerer who has turned to the Dark and resurrected the Evil. There\u2019s even an analog of Rivendell hidden deep in the forgotten places of this particular magical world. And, at one point, someone actually says \u201cWinter is coming.\u201d 2. In the same vein, let\u2019s talk fantasy tropes. THE NAMING employs the old Chosen One standby \u2013 one foretold to staunch the rising darkness and Save The Land. Discuss the tropes in this book \u2013 what worked? What didn\u2019t? Are you a fan? Ana: Well, there is not only the Chosen One trope, but also its ultra familiar packaging \u2013 i.e. the Chosen One who is an Orphan and a slave who never knew or suspected her background. I think that my apathy toward the novel was somewhat mitigated because the Chosen One happens to be a girl here. The potential was immense especially considering how there were attempts to talk about it within the story. Maerad is always questioning her role as a Chosen One as well as her background. One of the few positives was how the enemies of the Chosen One completely overlooked Maerad because to their minds the prophecy could not be about a girl. So in a way, the fact that the main character is a girl is not an accident \u2013 I feel there is definitely a feminist point being made here and I wonder if this aspect will be more developed in further installments. That said: is the fact that the Chosen One is a girl subversive enough to compensate for the fact that she is still a Special Ultra Powerful Person who doesn\u2019t even have to learn to use her Ultra Special Powers? I don\u2019t think so. It seems then that I am not a fan. Thea: You know, I\u2019m not intrinsically opposed to the Chosen One trope. Like most fantasy standbys, when it is done well, this trope is a beautiful thing (see everything from Harry Potter to Star Wars). Unfortunately, The Naming doesn\u2019t really do enough with the tropes it employs to shake the oppressive mantle of formulaic blandness. Like Ana says, the fact that Maerad is a young woman and the Chosen One is, on its face, a good thing. The fact that Maerad questions herself, her destiny, and her abilities is also a very cool thing \u2013 not to mention the fact that she is growing up from child to woman (gets her period for the first time, struggles with desire/attraction) is also an interesting and different dynamic than the usual male Heroes that play this role in epic fantasy. Of course, this is exacerbated by the fact that Maerad is not just the Chosen One, BUT she possesses unparalleled magical powers, she has the sweetest most beautiful singing voice and bardic abilities, she is effortlessly beautiful and everyone (except those that are Evil) loves her instantly. She learns how to read in a single lesson, she thwarts unbeatable evil with a single phrase, and\u2026 well, you get the picture. THIS to me is the most irritating part of the book. I like Maerad as a considerate, questioning, intelligent heroine (which humanizes her character), but I hate the fact that she is so exceptionally powerful and perfect (which de-humanizes her character and reduces her to a stock character). 3. Let\u2019s talk about worldbuilding: this first book of Pellinor introduces a new fantasy world in the Western European paradigm, with a system of Bards and the threat of the Dark (dark bards called Hulls, and fearful creatures called wers, and Wights). What are your thoughts on the world of Annar? Well developed or underdeveloped? Memorable or forgettable? Ana: I guess the answer is \u201cWell developed\u201d but \u201cforgettable.\u201d It\u2019s well developed in the way that it well thought-through: the author obviously spent time creating her own mythos, her own world (considering the appendixes as well as the introduction). But again, it is so derivative and familiar and concerned about descriptions of random things and scenery that it ends up being forgettable. At least, that\u2019s how I felt about it. Thea: I love the idea of a society of magical Bards and the power of music and stories in The Naming and this fantastical world. The idea of that the world of Annar has different cultures and competing schools of Barding is a little Harry Potterish, but in a good way. I also like the idea of a young person coming into their power by discovering \u201cThe Speech\u201d \u2013 that is, usually by conversing with animals (again, Harry Potter, anyone?). That said, all of these different worldbuilding nuances are lost in a bloated story and the more derivative, familiar aspects of the book. 4. On the character front, how does Maerad stack up as a heroine? How about Cadvan, her teacher and companion? What other characters did you like or not like in THE NAMING? Ana: I am conflicted on this point: I kind of liked Maerad but because the writing or the execution of the story didn\u2019t appeal to me, she ended up being rather non-descript. Her early dynamics with Cadvan when the two first meet almost drove me up the wall especially when he was horrible to her, telling her to \u201ccatch up\u201d and I just wanted to punch him because the girl spent her life to that point as a prisoner/slave without ever knowing who she was and the potential for magic she had. I read this one week ago and can barely remember any other memorable character and that\u2019s a problem in itself. Thea: When you separate Maerad from her awesome abilities and powers, I appreciate her more as a heroine. She has a sharp, inquisitive mind, and I like that she questions the people around her and her own role in this great future of saving the land and whatnot. I also appreciate the fact that for all Maerad\u2019s unparalleled strengths and uniqueness, she\u2019s not a badass warrior and struggles with violence. I generally liked the supporting characters in this book, although they all seem to fall into helpful generous benefactor roles \u2013 the motherly Sylvia and smitten scholar Dernhil fall firmly into this category. The tortured Cadvan is an interesting mentor to Maerad \u2013 I do like that others question their relationship, and that you never really know what Cadvan is thinking (although his frequent patriarchal exasperation with Maerad is annoying, especially in the early chapters). AND of course, there is the late addition of the rascally Hem as a character \u2013 whom I enjoyed, even if his introduction to the story felt AGAIN very \u201cAll the Stars are Aligning as the Prophecy Foretold.\u201d What is your favorite thing from this book? What weren\u2019t you enthusiastic about? And, most importantly, will you continue with the series? Ana: Hummm\u2026I am sorry to say I was not enthusiastic about anything. I was bored out of my mind and do not plan on reading the series any further. I do have one last question I want to throw out there: would you consider The Naming a good introduction to Epic Fantasy to younger readers? Are there good enough aspects of the novel that would appeal to those who haven\u2019t read a lot of Epic Fantasy yet? Thea: The strongest parts of the book, to me, lie with Maerad\u2019s characterization and the worldbuilding \u2013 although these elements are not without significant drawbacks (Maerad\u2019s uniqueness, the world\u2019s utter familiarity). There was one particular aspect of the book that bothered me that we haven\u2019t discussed here \u2013 that is, there were parts of the book where the regular western fantasy speech would turn into crazy archaic speech, complete with \u201cthee\u201ds, \u201cthou\u201ds, and so on. (Talk about overkill and an entirely jarring experience.) I think on the whole, I\u2019m feeling a little more charitable towards The Naming than Ana, but I do think the book suffered from the most fatal of flaws: banality. This book is entirely too similar to other fantasy books that did it first and did it better. As I said before, this isn\u2019t a bad book. It\u2019s just not a particularly memorable one, either. I probably won\u2019t be reading the next book in the series (unless someone can tell me that it gets REALLY GOOD). Rating: Ana: 5 \u2013 Meh Thea: 5 \u2013 Meh, but leaning towards a 6. ...more Tanto viaje cansa. Incluso al lector. Ojal\u00e1 este desarrollo cambie para las pr\u00f3ximas entregas. I'm being generous by giving this book 3 stars. I think it's probably more of a 2 1/2, and that's only because it did get better at the end. The keyword for this book is slow. Everything about this book is very slow paced. Now, I don't always mind a slower pace, as long as we're given something to fill up that time. If it's a slow book plot wise, but has interesting characters and character development, then I can be ok with that. But we don't really learn a lot about the characters. What we do l I'm being generous by giving this book 3 stars. I think it's probably more of a 2 1/2, and that's only because it did get better at the end. The keyword for this book is slow. Everything about this book is very slow paced. Now, I don't always mind a slower pace, as long as we're given something to fill up that time. If it's a slow book plot wise, but has interesting characters and character development, then I can be ok with that. But we don't really learn a lot about the characters. What we do learn a lot about is landscapes. And what kind of flowers are in a garden. And lots of irrelevant information. This book is a bad one for grocery lists. What I mean is that we can't can't pass a garden a remark that it's a beautiful garden with varied flowers - no, the author has to give a grocery list of the types of flowers. We can't pass through a village and see different types of people - we get another list. We get detailed descriptions of what a place looks like - and yet even this is done in such a way that I can't really say I ever got a clear visual, because I just didn't care. Aside from that, there's also the problem of the fairly standard plot and characters of the story. There's the Chosen One who is unaware of her powers, the strange, but interesting, mentor, the long lost sibling, the mentor's mentor. I mean, really - could we get more cliche? And there's a lot of tell in this book. We're told that Maerad feels a certain way, but we never really empathize with her. We're always kept at a distance from what's going on. As I read in a different book recently. \"No, you're telling me about Paris. I don't want to hear about Paris, I want to experience Paris.\" I didn't experience this story - I was told this story... As I said, it really deserves 2 stars, maybe 2 1/2 - but it did pick up pace at the ending, and I'm feeling generous. That said, considering the next book is more questing/travelling, I fear coming across many more grocery lists before getting to the story. ...more It was what many made it out to be. A very, very, very, very, detailed world with a very, very, very, very detailed history, sporting some very, very, very, very long appendices (which I hadn't bothered to read). What I enjoyed most were Croggon's poems; she is indeed talented in that area. Her characters were allright - stereotypical, but allright. Most of the time her long descriptions rolled off me like water, and my impatience would cause my eyes to jump to the bottom of the next page. (And It was what many made it out to be. A very, very, very, very, detailed world with a very, very, very, very detailed history, sporting some very, very, very, very long appendices (which I hadn't bothered to read). What I enjoyed most were Croggon's poems; she is indeed talented in that area. Her characters were allright - stereotypical, but allright. Most of the time her long descriptions rolled off me like water, and my impatience would cause my eyes to jump to the bottom of the next page. (And then I'd force myself to go back and reread the long descriptions.) Her main idea did bore me slightly, though, especially towards the end... There is the Good, and the Bad. Hurrah! And then there's this super evil guy who fell (along with his minions), and now he's rising again. Huzzah! And there's only one who can vanquish it all (known eloquently as \"the One\") - Brilliant! Why didn't I think of that? And along the way there's this super brilliant mentor persona, with his shadowy past and his absolute skill, and another guy who has betrayed everyone and is now USING THE BAD POWERS TO TAKE OVER THE WORLD!!!! The book is mainly about... traveling. And traveling some more. And the sheer act of getting from place to place. And Croggon's explanations of how a set of desolate, rolling moors differs from another set of desolate, rolling moors. It is coupled with long accounts of the magic that lives in this land, and what it all really has to do with the main character. There's also some fighting, using magical words and magical bolts of lightning and other various forms of magic, which was pretty lame, in my opinion. The tale differs from other long winded tales in which pretty much nothing happens (cough, Inheritance, cough) in the way that the prose is much better and, in some places, quite beautful. ...more This book borders on a 3 star and 4 star for me, so in truth, a 3.5. The story is about Maerad, who we meet as a slave in Gilman's Cot. Maerad wasn't always a slave though. She was born in a place called Pellinor, but Pellinor was ransacked and lost, and she and her mother were taken as slaves. Maerad knows there is something special about her, and uses it to start stories about how she is a witch to keep potential trouble away. One day, a man comes into Gilman's Cot. A man no one else can see. H This book borders on a 3 star and 4 star for me, so in truth, a 3.5. The story is about Maerad, who we meet as a slave in Gilman's Cot. Maerad wasn't always a slave though. She was born in a place called Pellinor, but Pellinor was ransacked and lost, and she and her mother were taken as slaves. Maerad knows there is something special about her, and uses it to start stories about how she is a witch to keep potential trouble away. One day, a man comes into Gilman's Cot. A man no one else can see. Her chance of escape has come, and she takes it. Thus begins her journey to remember who she really is, and finding a lot more rests on her shoulders than milking cows as a slave. It was a slow start. It seemed the first hundred pages were all description of everything. Of course, it was beautiful writing, but I wanted to get to what happens, not what is just...there. A hundred pages in and I shouldn't be able to list the events that have happened. A hundred pages in, and I'm telling myself if I hear another description of the guy's mouth or his stance, I'm going to chuck the book against the wall. Another hundred pages in and I'm reading in a fervor trying to determine who is the good guy and who is the bad guy and how they will ever win, or find a happy ending. And that is how I spent the last couple hundred pages of this book. By the end of the first book, I wanted to read the next book to see how the whole story turn out. Is she The One? No, that's Jet Li. But if you start, keep going. Trudge through until it starts getting good, because it will. ...more This was a dull, uninteresting mass of dull, interesting characters who went on dull, unoriginal adventures. 500 pages. It was basically 500 pages. And I was SO BORED. You know, usually I look down on people who say that a book is 'boring' or that they are 'bored.' I just want to be like, \"You are five years old and have no attention span. Stop writing such un-sophsticated reviews.\" However, I have nothing to say for this... except that I was so freaking bored. The characters were one-note and, w This was a dull, uninteresting mass of dull, interesting characters who went on dull, unoriginal adventures. 500 pages. It was basically 500 pages. And I was SO BORED. You know, usually I look down on people who say that a book is 'boring' or that they are 'bored.' I just want to be like, \"You are five years old and have no attention span. Stop writing such un-sophsticated reviews.\" However, I have nothing to say for this... except that I was so freaking bored. The characters were one-note and, while the Bard plot line was cool I suppose, it just dragged on. All that happened was, they moved. They kept moving. They got attacked sometimes. Who cares? It was all just so dull and so long, and the author seemed to think we really cared about her stupid little world, when in actuality.... Here's the thing. If you cram knowledge about your world down my throat, I will either love you or hate you. If the details are cool, and you cram them down my throat in an elegant way, then... fine. But if the details are dull and have been done before, or if you have a really stupid book, then I will hate you for your conceited notion that I care at all about the little universe you've made. I mean, seriously. This book seemed to think it was Lord of the Rings. Well, guess what? It wasn't. ...That is all. ...more", "Title": "The Naming"},
