{"Comments": "I'm going to make a statement which I probably will contradict in the future (<---B>because I'll forget</---B>) and which likely contradicts something I've previously said (and forgotten). <---C>Keladry</---C> of Mindelan is my favorite <---A>Tamora Pierce</---A> heroine. I thought for a long time while reading this book about that statement,<---M> and how true it was</---M>, and eventually decided that it was accurate. I love them all, of course, but with most of them there is an aspect I just can't sympathize with. Mostly (Sandry, Tris, Daja, Ala I'm going to make a statement which I probably will contradict in the future (because I'll forget) and which likely contradicts something I've previously said (and forgotten). Keladry of Mindelan is my favorite Tamora Pierce heroine. I thought for a long time while reading this book about that statement, and how true it was, and eventually decided that it was accurate. I love them all, of course, but with most of them there is an aspect I just can't sympathize with. Mostly (Sandry, Tris, Daja, Alanna, Daine) it's the magic factor. Pierce does a really good job of writing plausible magic, but as a result it's such an integral part of her characters' lives that it is difficult for me to empathize. The underlying themes are just fine, but the tangible day-to-day stuff of their lives is inherently fantastic just because of who they are. Kel is significant to me for the same reason she's significant to other Tortallan girls: Lady Alanna proved that women could be knights, but she had magic to help her; Kel proves that anyone, so long as they have the determination, can win their shield. Because she has no magic to help her along, a lot of her troubles are similar to those faced by students in the real world - challenging classes, unfriendly classmates, strict teachers, conflict of ideas. This is a school story in a way that few people write them anymore, where the school part is linked to the plot and not just background. It's also a good way to shore up worldbuilding, because whenever Pierce shows a fragment of a class she's telling us something about Tortall as well as creating a sense of realism to the education her characters are undergoing. But that's not the only thing that makes Kel my favorite. After all, the school setting was only a part of the story for the first two books; though Squire was still education-centric in a way, <+++>Lady Knight</+++> is far from it. So at this point, when Kel has been knighted and is off serving the realm, far outside my personal knowledge/experience base, what is it that makes her still sympathetic? Without a doubt, it is her strength. You will be hard-pressed to think of a heroine in recent YA who is as strong as this girl. There are some good ones out there, though most of the barrel seems to be bad apples, but Kel trumps them all. Her strength is not just physical or even mental, but in her convictions. She has an absolutely stunning sense of duty and justice that just blows me away every time.<---F> She has integrity</---F>. And she is also honest with herself: even though she believes in abstract concepts like duty and justice, and fights for them, she doesn't glorify the act of fighting nor pretend like her decisions have no consequences. \"You all know why we're here,\" she told them. \"You know the enemy. He will be on us soon. When he comes, we will fight not for some glorious cause, but to survive.\" And do her decisions ever have consequences. I wouldn't dream of spoiling it, but let me just remind you that, as we saw in the finale of Page, Kel will risk anything for people under her protection. Speaking of the people under her protection, the side characters in this book are just fantastic. Even the ones who get just a sentence or two feel like real people. (view spoiler) [Which means it really sucks when they die in the next sentence. (hide spoiler) ] That's important, because the cast of this book is huge and keeping track of people is pretty crucial. Also, it's nice that only two characters (well, and one who's off-screen the whole time) are unmitigatedly evil; the rest, even the unpleasant ones, are in some way likeable eventually. Also, they are badass. She thought the battle flags and shields take n from those Scanrans who had attacked her people that summer gave the walls a nice, homey touch. This book makes me really, really want more Tortall series - not just the Daughter of the Lioness duet, but more after that. There is in particular one little girl who had better show up again, else she'll seem like she was just tossed in to give the quartet its name and that's sort of sloppy. Pierce is not very sloppy, so I'm sure it will be dealt with. There is one other thing which is rather tangential that I wanted to remember to mention. I really, really like the way magic is handled in this quartet, and in this book in particular, since Tortall is at war. It is a limited resource, after all, and that's made clear here. Those who have scads of power (particularly Numair and Daine) are treated with a nice combination of respect and fear, which I really like. The ordinary people understand how important they are to the war effort, of course, but that doesn't mean it's comfortable to be around someone who can summon boulders from ten miles away! If you enjoyed the rest of the quartet, you're pretty much guaranteed to like this one. Also, if you're tired of heroines whose happily ever after consists only of ending up with the right guy, check these books out - it's not too much of a spoiler to say that Kel winds up contentedly unattached. (view spoiler) [Though I'm still rooting for her to end up with Dom in later series. (hide spoiler) ] (By the way, I almost forgot this part: I love having a heroine who's tall, strong, muscular, and proud of it . No delicate waif, our Kel!) ...more Buddy reread w/Monica 2/1/15-2/4/15. This book was a beast. You cannot top Tamora Pierce in YA fantasy. I don\u2019t care what anyone says, they are wrong. Now you can argue which series of hers is best \u2013or even which protagonist (the constant debate between Monica & I: Alanna or Kel?)- but you cannot argue her brilliance. This final book had almost zero romance. Which would normally make me cringe, but in true Tamora fashion you are so involved with her characters you just don\u2019t care. I rooted for Buddy reread w/Monica 2/1/15-2/4/15. This book was a beast. You cannot top Tamora Pierce in YA fantasy. I don\u2019t care what anyone says, they are wrong. Now you can argue which series of hers is best \u2013or even which protagonist (the constant debate between Monica & I: Alanna or Kel?)- but you cannot argue her brilliance. This final book had almost zero romance. Which would normally make me cringe, but in true Tamora fashion you are so involved with her characters you just don\u2019t care. I rooted for each and every one of them & her side characters have purpose, not merely artificial compliments to her main character. My one itsy bitsy issue with this one: Cleon. (view spoiler) [Tamora, I get why you let him go but you could have given my 10th grade self a little warning that the romance would end without a final meet between characters. That was cruel. (hide spoiler) ] But the action? And everything Kel stands for? And her struggles as a commander? And the battle scenes? Epic. Although I will admit (and I\u2019m sure Monica will rejoice on this): 1) Alanna fight scenes and conclusion better were better in her final book than Kel\u2019s. 2) Enemies in Daine books were more compelling (Ozrone was the perfect villain) than King Maggur or Blayce the Gallan. I was only introduced to either as a villain in this book (if there were previous hints I don\u2019t remember them) so I just didn\u2019t hate them with the same fiery passion I felt for Duke Roger or Emperor/Stormwing Ozrone. That said this book still has 5 stars. I don\u2019t have to think every little thing is perfect. Tamora knows what she is doing and the story kept me glued to the page (believe me when this was my first reading I had it done in one night!). I was sobbing when I got to the end. And the last scene? It was beautiful. A promise for the future as she rides off with her best friend. \"Kel!\" shouted Neal. \"Are you going to dream all day? She's waiting for me!\" Lovers, Kel thought, rolling her eyes. At least there was one headache she didn't have. She was about to tell her friend he could wait when she remembered that she'd get to see Dom while at Steadfast. It would be nice to be able to sit and chat for a while without kidnapping, flight, or war to distract them. She urged Hoshi to a trot. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more If Alanna is Dana Scully (petite, sharp-tongued, redheaded; quick with a weapon, and with a penchant for shadowy corners and impossible quests), Kel is a (much less exuberant) Leslie Knope: hardworking, dedicated to civil service, willing to put in the work to make a difference in her community. I'll always love Alanna, but there was something particularly special about this latest comfort-re-read of Kel's story. I'll never be as selfless or stoic as Kel, as willing to stubbornly pursue injustic If Alanna is Dana Scully (petite, sharp-tongued, redheaded; quick with a weapon, and with a penchant for shadowy corners and impossible quests), Kel is a (much less exuberant) Leslie Knope: hardworking, dedicated to civil service, willing to put in the work to make a difference in her community. I'll always love Alanna, but there was something particularly special about this latest comfort-re-read of Kel's story. I'll never be as selfless or stoic as Kel, as willing to stubbornly pursue injustice and stand up for those who can't\u2014but I wish I was. It might be a problem with the novel that Kel has very few character flaws: while Alanna has a temper and Daine is shy and scarred, Kel is hampered only by her gender and the inflexible standards of the men in power. But I don't really care if this is bad writing or poor characterization, because what's important about Kel is that all of her achievements are driven through pure, sweaty, hard work. Alanna had the Goddess's hand on her; Daine had wild magic and a divine lineage. Kel has a powerful moral compass and an indefatigable work ethic and clear-eyed determination toward her goals. Kel has grit. And I guess this resonated with me because those are the qualities most valuable to me right now, the ones I most wish I could embody: grit. Hard work. Putting in the time. The clench-teethed refusal to accept power imbalance and the mistreatment of those who cannot defend themselves. In another context, it's easy to imagine Kel as a doctor. Protector of the small, carer of the sick. It's funny how many fierce, bookish women I've met over the years who cop to a childhood fondness for Alanna. We were special, we were strong, we took up our own swords in her likeness (literally, for my best friend Hannah, a collegiate fencing champion). But I wonder if, now, at 27, Kel isn't a better role model. To bring this back to Leslie Knope: in the Parks series finale, Leslie gives a commencement address at the University of Indiana. She tells the class about the virtues of public service, and ends with an exhortation: \"Find your team. And get to work.\" It's a phrase that's echoed around in my head since I heard it, because it seems like the most important thing I can with my life at this point. Kel has a team too: she would not have made it through knighthood, to Scanra, without a solid core of people and animals willing to go to bat (and war) for her. And she did the work: she ran when she could have walked, she fought when she could have looked the other way, she faced her fears when she could have accepted defeat. I want to be more like her, and more like Leslie. Where's my sword? ...more Sadly this book is not my favorite of the series. But it deserves an extra half a star or so since the series in general is strong. I love Kel and her compassion for the 'small'. I love her nickname 'Protector of the Small'. I always am incensed when I read about the No Name Man and Stennum. I can't believe that so many people are willing to condone the deaths of children to win a war! -.- I find the amount of war a bit tedious in this volume. I don't mind the fighting but it's just got a bit repe Sadly this book is not my favorite of the series. But it deserves an extra half a star or so since the series in general is strong. I love Kel and her compassion for the 'small'. I love her nickname 'Protector of the Small'. I always am incensed when I read about the No Name Man and Stennum. I can't believe that so many people are willing to condone the deaths of children to win a war! -.- I find the amount of war a bit tedious in this volume. I don't mind the fighting but it's just got a bit repetitive. :/ I'm sad that Cleon and Kel didn't work out. I really hope that Dom and Kel end up together. I think they make a cute couple. ^-^ I'm glad that Wyldon didn't have to send Kel to traitor's hill. He has really grown since the first book. ...more Given the past week's events, it's been especially nice to escape into a fantasy realm where knights risk their lives to defend refugees. Side note: I wish Goodreads had a way to track re-reads of books, because I've been returning to this one since... sixth grade. Wow! What a finale for such an amazing series! <+++>Lady Knight</+++> had to be my favorite book in the Protector of the Small series (although Squire was right up there too). The rest of the series interlaced the positive with the negative, offering the ups and downs of a kingdom on the brink of, and eventually in the midst of, war with the Scanrans (Tortall's barbaric neighbors in the north). Yet Lady Knight was the darkest read of the entire series, offering an eye-opening view of the war and its casual Wow! What a finale for such an amazing series! Lady Knight had to be my favorite book in the Protector of the Small series (although Squire was right up there too). The rest of the series interlaced the positive with the negative, offering the ups and downs of a kingdom on the brink of, and eventually in the midst of, war with the Scanrans (Tortall's barbaric neighbors in the north). Yet Lady Knight was the darkest read of the entire series, offering an eye-opening view of the war and its casualties. I was not surprised in the slightest when my friend Amanda, from Late Nights with Good Books, informed me that Pierce's writing was influenced by the 9/11 tragedy (which occurred during the creation of Lady Knight). The darker scenes made more sense to me after realizing the influence. While Lady Knight had its dismal parts, this did not decrease my enjoyment of the final installment. I still enjoyed it immensely. Where there is war, there is going to be suffering and loss, and Pierce's depiction of Tortall was very realistic. Throughout the whole book, I was cheering for Tortall, and my faith in humanity was rekindled when even the weakest of individuals wanted to defend their home. Kel was placed in charge of a refugee camp, and while she was unhappy with her assignment, she made the best of her situation. She encouraged the refugees to fight, showing them how to defend themselves with weapons and training them just like she had done with her maid Lalasa and the younger pages. She was an inspiring heroine, as she cared for her charges and felt responsible for their well-being. Once again, I loved all of the old characters, such as Neal, Owen, Merric, Dom, Lord Wyldon, Jump, Peachblossom, and Raoul. I especially loved the children in Lady Knight, including Kel's new servant Tobe. As always, Kel is driven to help the small, vulnerable individuals that cannot defend themselves from bullying and abuse (hence the title of the series). I was able to sympathize with Kel because she is such a compassionate leader who never takes advantage of others. She cares deeply for animals and others, and I appreciated her selflessness and devotion. There were a few unsavory characters in this book, but there always has to be a villain. The reader can't help hating Blayce and his dog Stennum. Lady Knight reveals the darker side of humanity, a side that is willing to sacrifice so much for a shameful end, and a side that can hardly be called human. The book shows how war can never be divided neatly into black and white, the bad guys and the good guys. Even on the Scanran side, many of the soldiers are just following orders and it leaves Kel's forces torn when they must take action. It is hard to clearly define right and wrong in this book. It is all a matter of opinion. There is a similar issue with the immortal Stormwings, magical creatures with human faces and metal wings that urinate on fallen men in the battlefield, cake them in dung, and then roll in the mess. Kel is sickened by this behavior, even when it comes to the Scanran corpses. But the Stormwings cannot help their behavior because it is their nature. Lady Knight certainly raises some disturbing, thought-provoking questions. As for the ending, all I will say is that it ties up all loose ends and was a feel good ending. The end provided closure. It left me feeling happy and upset all at the same time. I was happy because I loved this series and was grateful that I had finally read it. But I was upset that it had to come to an end. There were many touching scenes, and the reader gets to see how many people truly love Kel. Throughout the series, Kel has developed a following, and in Lady Knight, many of Kel's friends proved how much they really care. If you have yet to read this series, I would recommend it to people of all ages and to fantasy lovers especially. Tamora Pierce is a wonderful writer, and while this was not my favorite series of hers, I still loved it. Now, I just need to read the Immortals series. ...more What a way to end a series....but as I finish, I want more of Kel and Neal and Owen and Jump and Peachblossom and Merric and Tobe and all the others in this series. I know they are grown now but I just feel that something is missing ---- like the rest of Kel's story. Does she ever find love? Or does she spend her life with the commoners and the children as her family? I would love to read more about her even if she only shows up in another series like Alanna did in this series. This book was pretty unputdownable; pretty action packed from beginning to end. Thinking back, there actually wasn't that much action at the beginning per se, but there's a sort of divine prophecy that starts to book off, so even when not much is happening there's still this level of expectation. I had so much empathy for Kel and everyone around her throughout the story (Jeez, why is no one sending her backup when she's got hundreds of civilians to defend and weekly raids from the enemy??) The l This book was pretty unputdownable; pretty action packed from beginning to end. Thinking back, there actually wasn't that much action at the beginning per se, but there's a sort of divine prophecy that starts to book off, so even when not much is happening there's still this level of expectation. I had so much empathy for Kel and everyone around her throughout the story (Jeez, why is no one sending her backup when she's got hundreds of civilians to defend and weekly raids from the enemy??) The little spurts of action left me nettled and on edge for all the characters. Kel is definitely a kick-ass fighter and strategist, but she's kind of dense to how other people are going to react/respond. Kind of a standing trait for heroes, though; I feel like I'm in a constant eye roll in regards to heroes have the \"no, I'm the only one who can be risking life and future; go home the rest of you\" argument over and over again. But of all of Ms. Pierces main characters, she's the one I'm most curious about for what the rest of her life is going to bring. She's the only one so far without a firm romantic interest developing by the end of her books (which was also kind of refreshing; because what are the odds that you'd be sent away from everyone you know, focused on heroics and war, and still have time to fall for someone new?), and we didn't get a whole lot of epilogue for her. ETA: On rereading I realized actually how violent this book is. Not that Ms. Pierce ever dwells on the details, but it is a book about war in an age of swords and battle axes and they're fighting against monsters. There are a lot of deaths in this book and they aren't drifting away in their sleep. I think watching Game of Thrones has maybe added some new entries to my mental image bank to pull from or something, but all the deaths in this book struck me as far more gruesome than they did on first reading. And Kel now suddenly reminds me of Brienne of Tarth. ...more I really enjoyed the first book in the series; I really got into it--worrying about the main character, getting outraged on her behalf, being amazed at her maturity. The first book took place over one year so we really got to experience a lot of Kel's life and understand her feelings. By the second book the timeline sped up; several years went by and by the end of the book Kel was ready to be a squire. The next book went by in the same manner. Then the last book took place in about a year again. I really enjoyed the first book in the series; I really got into it--worrying about the main character, getting outraged on her behalf, being amazed at her maturity. The first book took place over one year so we really got to experience a lot of Kel's life and understand her feelings. By the second book the timeline sped up; several years went by and by the end of the book Kel was ready to be a squire. The next book went by in the same manner. Then the last book took place in about a year again. So the timeline for the series was a bit muddled. But the real reason that I gave this book only 3 stars was that it all felt very anticlimactic. In the second book one of the main antagonists was killed off without any explanation at all, and it didn't even happen during the action of the story; we only heard about it second hand and got no explanation about why it happened. I got the same feeling when the \"evil doer\" was killed in the last book. It just wasn't a big deal, it happened quickly without too much struggle on Kel's part. In the first book, I really enjoyed how much Kel excelled at her knight training, but by the end of the series it was just unbelievable. Also, a large part of the series was devoted to her finding a love interest but she never found one. That part of the storyline just seemed to be left behind just like the part about Joren. I enjoyed it well enought, but I don't think I would recommend it to anyone. ...more This was my favorite book out of the Protector of the Small series, and I think it was wonderfully crafted. The characters, the conflict, Kel's frustration as she is forced to try and decide between her 'destiny' and her orders. All wonderful. I gave it five stars, but I think others should be wary. This is one of those books where I'm fully aware that while I like it, there's stuff in here that others might not like. A huge chunk of this book follows Kel as she sets up a refugee camp and has to This was my favorite book out of the Protector of the Small series, and I think it was wonderfully crafted. The characters, the conflict, Kel's frustration as she is forced to try and decide between her 'destiny' and her orders. All wonderful. I gave it five stars, but I think others should be wary. This is one of those books where I'm fully aware that while I like it, there's stuff in here that others might not like. A huge chunk of this book follows Kel as she sets up a refugee camp and has to work out the daily details that go into running something like that. That was my favorite part of the book, but I have an uncommon love of logistics and trying to figure out things like that. There is still plenty of action in that section, and some wonderful character-building, but for those who just want to see her get on to the final bad guy, it might be a bit of a chore to get through. Also, there's an entire group of characters introduce in the third act and then left to meander through the climax. They don't do a whole lot or gain their own story arc or conclusion, and that can be quite frustrating. Other than that, it's a solid offering from a veteran writer, and Kel remains always one of my favorite fantasy heroines. ...more This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ Kelladry conquered her fears in the Chamber, and has been made a Lady Knight. War has been declared on the Scanarans, and Kelladry\u2019s first assignment is as the commander of a refugee camp. She is also in charge of her friend, Neal and lots of civilians and criminals serving out their sentences as labourers and soldiers on the front lines. She gains a new servant, Tobe, a young boy she befriends. When the \u201cKilling De This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ Kelladry conquered her fears in the Chamber, and has been made a Lady Knight. War has been declared on the Scanarans, and Kelladry\u2019s first assignment is as the commander of a refugee camp. She is also in charge of her friend, Neal and lots of civilians and criminals serving out their sentences as labourers and soldiers on the front lines. She gains a new servant, Tobe, a young boy she befriends. When the \u201cKilling Devices\u201d descend upon her camp and kill or capture most of the inhabitants, Kelladry must follow them and fulfil her destiny as Protector of the Small. Kelladry has developed more as a character in this book, and you get to see some of the characters who in earlier books were seen as older, and therefore infallible, in a new light. Through Kelladry\u2019s eyes she can see that those she looks up to are not omnipotent and are making the best decisions that they can. In this book you get to see some of the rest of the Tortallean world, and get to see that not all Scanarans are evil, and many are acting out of fear. I would recommend Tamora Pierce\u2019s books to anyone who likes young adult fantasy which isn\u2019t too dark and heavy. ...more the electrician i was working with today insisted on mocking me for rereading a book i have read a dozen times, and i kept responding by saying \"but it's one of my favorites!\" i don't know why people don't understand rereading books, but whatever- this book makes me incredibly happy, so sometimes i reread it when i need a pick-me-up. kel really comes into her own as a commander (and an adult) in this book. she accepts the things she cannot change with dignity and a resolve to do her best, which i the electrician i was working with today insisted on mocking me for rereading a book i have read a dozen times, and i kept responding by saying \"but it's one of my favorites!\" i don't know why people don't understand rereading books, but whatever- this book makes me incredibly happy, so sometimes i reread it when i need a pick-me-up. kel really comes into her own as a commander (and an adult) in this book. she accepts the things she cannot change with dignity and a resolve to do her best, which is one of the things i admire most about her. this book also shows how well neal and owen grow up, which makes my heart happy. also: wyldon. stop making my heart overflow with joy. (and by \"heart\" i mean \"eyes\" and by \"joy\" i mean \"tears\") i really cannot recommend these books enough. alanna and daine are special, one-of-a-kind, hero types and i admire them for who and what they are, but kel is just a normal, strong, amazing woman who is doing what she feels is right and i still strive to be like her. ...more Kel goes through her Ordeal, and comes out a knight--but a knight with a mission. She's been given a vision of the abominations being created to attack Tortall, and she wants to pursue the vision immediately. Instead, she's ordered to command a refugee camp. She hardly knows where to begin, but her years with Lord Raoul pay off, and she quickly gains the respect of the soldiers, refugees, and convicts through her organization, quick thinking, and hard work. But Kel can't stay off the front lines Kel goes through her Ordeal, and comes out a knight--but a knight with a mission. She's been given a vision of the abominations being created to attack Tortall, and she wants to pursue the vision immediately. Instead, she's ordered to command a refugee camp. She hardly knows where to begin, but her years with Lord Raoul pay off, and she quickly gains the respect of the soldiers, refugees, and convicts through her organization, quick thinking, and hard work. But Kel can't stay off the front lines forever, and eventually she must face down the man who kills children and uses their souls to power war machines. I loved reading about Kel's time running the refugee camp/fortress. She considers so many options, and works herself so hard; it's inspiring. I wasn't so thrilled by her climactic battle at the end--I felt like she got so much help from cats&dogs that she hardly did anything. ...more 2/4/15 buddy re-read with Rachel I loved this. It was the most engrossing for me personally out of the series because it perfectly executed and blended all of the elements needed in a truly great book. Kel is such a strong character, and her world and perspective provides so much thoughtful commentary on many important themes. The ending was a bit too easy, but still well enough developed to be forgiven. The epilogue-type-thing that follows more than erased any critical thoughts from my mind. I ha 2/4/15 buddy re-read with Rachel I loved this. It was the most engrossing for me personally out of the series because it perfectly executed and blended all of the elements needed in a truly great book. Kel is such a strong character, and her world and perspective provides so much thoughtful commentary on many important themes. The ending was a bit too easy, but still well enough developed to be forgiven. The epilogue-type-thing that follows more than erased any critical thoughts from my mind. I have had such a wonderful time during this buddy read with Rachel, I am genuinely sad that it's come to an end :( but I will say... Thank you, Rachel, for motivating me to pick these up again. I've loved every second of the experience. <3 ...more I like Pierce overall, but one thing really annoys me about her writing: Her main characters' assumed moral superiority over anyone who doesn't conform to her ideas of sexuality. The main character in this quartet assumes that anyone who objects to homosexuality, sex before marriage, and several others things is just ridiculous and uneducated. Without ever really explaining why--just that they must be backward. Fortunately this topic comes up very little in the books, so it wasn't overwhelming. R I like Pierce overall, but one thing really annoys me about her writing: Her main characters' assumed moral superiority over anyone who doesn't conform to her ideas of sexuality. The main character in this quartet assumes that anyone who objects to homosexuality, sex before marriage, and several others things is just ridiculous and uneducated. Without ever really explaining why--just that they must be backward. Fortunately this topic comes up very little in the books, so it wasn't overwhelming. Rating: PGish, but with some moral assumptions that I strongly disagree with (which must make me uneducated and backward, of course) ...more It wasn't too bad. I didn't like how she got rid of the love interest. And it still seems a bit wishy-washy to me how she keeps switching feelings for different guys, though if I'm honest, she's being honest. It's not like we as humans don't move on when something falls through in the area of love. :D I wish there was time in the book to get back on that track, but I guess there wasn't. I thought the climax was a bit too short, but then again, it was in the middle grade section of the library. : It wasn't too bad. I didn't like how she got rid of the love interest. And it still seems a bit wishy-washy to me how she keeps switching feelings for different guys, though if I'm honest, she's being honest. It's not like we as humans don't move on when something falls through in the area of love. :D I wish there was time in the book to get back on that track, but I guess there wasn't. I thought the climax was a bit too short, but then again, it was in the middle grade section of the library. :D Ah well, not a bad series. Didn't like the first or the last books, but rather enjoyed the middle two. ...more A brilliant end to a brilliant series. I want to start from the beginning all over again! (And, just like the first book, it made me tear up in a good way.) 3rd Read: 12/18/2016 2nd Read: 7/29/2015 Original Read: 3/19/2013 Protector of the Small :') :') :') It's official- Kel is my favorite Pierce heroine thus far. I adored this series. Fourth (and last) in the Protector of the Small fantasy series for children. My Take Well I'm sad that this series has come to an end. And I've already read the Daughter of the Lioness series...since I didn't know that it came after the Protector of the Small series! (Daughter, by the way, is more oriented to a young adult audience with the much more elevated writing Pierce incorporates. An excellent series as are all of Pierce's (that I've read, so far *grin*)). I love it! When ol' Valestone atte Fourth (and last) in the Protector of the Small fantasy series for children. My Take Well I'm sad that this series has come to an end. And I've already read the Daughter of the Lioness series...since I didn't know that it came after the Protector of the Small series! (Daughter, by the way, is more oriented to a young adult audience with the much more elevated writing Pierce incorporates. An excellent series as are all of Pierce's (that I've read, so far *grin*)). I love it! When ol' Valestone attempts to browbeat Kel into giving him more than he deserves and begins to insult her simply because she is a woman, Kel has a great response...one that is too true! 'Mistresses, have you ever noticed that when we disagree with a male...or find outselves in a position over males, the first comment they make is always about our reputations or our monthlies?' Kel then goes on with 'If I disagree with you, should I place blame on the misworkings of your manhood? Or do I refrain from so serious an insult far more serious, of course, than your hint that I am a whore.' Oh, you will be so impressed with Kel's people. They keep their heads and create trouble to slow their captors down and Little Meech leaves signs along the trail. The Story The Chamber is pushing Kel through dreams to ride out on a quest, but it's war between Scanra and Tortall and Kel is ordered out to the northern boundaries with a very unpalatable task. At least she has Peachblossom, Hoshi, Jump, and the sparrows! It's on their trip to the front that Kel rescues Tobe, a young apprentice who is much abused. Nor will that innkeeper escape punishment when Neal lays one on him. It's a few days later that Kel encounters Cleon and...it's just not the same for Kel anymore. Later they meet up with Owen at Fort Giantkiller (see Squire ) where Kel learns her posting. And a mighty poor posting she considers it. At least she'll be with Neal who will be the camp healer and Merric is the new patrol captain. It's a hard posting with too much paperwork and strife. Kel would do anything to get out, but when raiders attack and carry away most of the camp, Kel discovers the truth about herself and is determined to rescue \"her\" people with the help of her flock of sparrows, Hoshi, Jump, twelve dogs, and ten cats. That she's committing treason by going against Wyldon's orders? They're her people! The Characters Kelandry of Mindelan is a knight now and must follow the king's orders. Prince Roald , Faleron of King's Reach, Merric of Hollyrose, Seaver of Tasride, Esmond of Nicoline, Quinden of Marti's Hill, Sir Nealan of Queenscove (still in love with Lady Yukimi ) are with her at the start. She hasn't seen Sir Cleon of Kennan in over a year, nor have they been able to exchange letters. And now that Kel is a knight, the Lady Alanna can speak to her! Lalasa has her own dressmaking shop in town. Owen of Jesslaw is squire to Lord Wyldon. Tobeis \"Tobe\" Boone is being beaten by his innkeeper master when Kel rescues him and installs him as her servant. Even better, he has horse magic. Auld Eulama was the midwife who took him in when he was left on her doorstep. Sir Raoul of Goldenlake and Malorie's Peak is still her CO. General Vanget haMinch is the supreme commander of Tortall's northern defenses. Lord Wyldon of Cavall , the former training master, commands at Fort Giantkiller. Duke Baird is the royal healer...and Neal's father. Daine the Wildmage is a real asset with her animal spies, even the camp animals want to help. Prince Roald was supposed to have married Princess Shinkokami , but the war has postponed their wedding. Numair Salmal\u00edn arrives at Camp Haven escorting refugees and stays for a bit to add his weight in magic. Mistress Fanche Weir led her entire village to safety. Now, she's not too impressed with our Kel. Saefas Plowman is a trapper. Gilab Lofts is one of the convicts Kel had captured back in Page . Einur is the cook. The Tirrsmont refugees include a real pain--- Master Idrius Valestone who believes he deserves more than he is receiving. HIs wife Olka is much more conciliating. Peliwin Archer is a troublemaker whom Kel soon cuts down to size. Adner is a plowman and grabs Kel for plow duty. A number of the children want to learn to fight: Loesia, Meech will look on, Gydo Elder , Tobe, and Keon . Domitan of Masbolle is Neal's cousin and a sergeant in the King's Own. A friend of Kel's from her squire days. Kel's very grateful she'll have his expertise as well as Corporals Wolset and Fulcher 's for a bit. Captain Elbridge is more impressed with Kel when he learns she's already fought one of the killing devices. Sergeants Connac , Yngvar , Hevlor , Kortus and Aufrec . Her work is cut out for her with some of her men-- Sergeants Vidur and Oluf are too hard on the men and harder on the convicts. Numair brings clerks for which Kel is most grateful: Zamiel Fairview of Blue Harbor, Hildurra Ward , and Gragur Marten . The Vassa are Scanran smugglers, but they owe the Whisper Man and they help Kel and her motley troop across the river into Scanra. Irnai is a very young seer in the village next to Blayce's castle; she offers aid to Kel and her friends. Agrane , Blayce's former cook, draws out the floorplan of the castle. Zerhalm and Morun the picklock provide their aid. Maggur Rathhausak is a Scanran warlord who has united the other clans and incorporated their raiding bands into one cohesive army. And, he's using mechanical killing devices. Master Blayce Younger of Galla (Kel thinks of him as the Nothing Man) is a warlock using a very black magic to power those devices. Stenmun is the captain of Blayce's guard. The Cover The cover is lilacs and a very feminine Kel from her chin to her upper chest lightly swathed in tulle. I'm guessing they're playing up the Lady in the title. For Kel is now a Lady Knight in the Kingdom of Tortall. ...more It's a miracle! I actually really liked a Tortall heroine all the way through without getting frustrated. Kel is easily my favorite character because she's relatable and plucky and has absolutely no magic of her own to help her out. I really like how her evolution throughout the series is front and center and she is able to handle a rough situation and be a great leader. Also, though I wish that Pierce had handled the breakup scene a little better, I really liked that for once Kel's happily ever It's a miracle! I actually really liked a Tortall heroine all the way through without getting frustrated. Kel is easily my favorite character because she's relatable and plucky and has absolutely no magic of her own to help her out. I really like how her evolution throughout the series is front and center and she is able to handle a rough situation and be a great leader. Also, though I wish that Pierce had handled the breakup scene a little better, I really liked that for once Kel's happily ever after doesn't include a prince charming even though she has expressed feelings for multiple characters throughout the series. As much as I love Neil, it was nice to see them keeping their friendship without it ultimately becoming a relationship. That being said, I really hate it when Pierce tries to write really dark material. Mainly, because it never quite comes across as believable for me. In this book, Blaise is cruel mainly for the point of being cruel, but he doesn't get enough attention to really understand his motivations. Also, I don't get why it has to be \"the chamber of the ordeal\" that is giving the orders. It just comes across as really strange. And just in general, sometimes Pierce's writing comes across as preachy. Generally, I agree with what she's preaching, but it can be a bit heavy-handed at times and slows down the story. It feels more like the author talking at the reader instead of characters interacting. However, I actually really enjoyed this series and how it wrapped up. It only took two Tortall quartets to get there. ...more Yes! I will read over and over and I hope to my grandchildren. Delightful maturational story arc, loved the tale, exactly the right kind and number of twists and turns. Also, the kind of battle I like in which resources used were foreshadowed chapters ago and the small company of Good Guys uses tactics to their advantage instead of frontally assaulting a couple of hundred bad guys. Beautifully read to us by Bernadette Dunne. I lift my coffee mug to Pierce and her delightful characters. A satisfying conclusion to a strong quartet of books. Kel does not disappoint. She will appeal to boys (mine loved all four books) as well as girls (and an adult or two!) -- anyone who despises bullying and roots for pursuing the less conventional path. In Lady Knight, the final book in the Protector of the Small Quartet series, Kel is faced with her first assignment as a knight... and it's a dozy. Build and command a refugee fort in the middle of a Warfield. Man it with just a trickle of help, and share the major responsibilities with two of her friends, fellow green, new, Knights Merric and Neal. Control, protect and garner the respect of some 400 refugees who believe they've been passed into your care because obviously nobody cares about the In Lady Knight, the final book in the Protector of the Small Quartet series, Kel is faced with her first assignment as a knight... and it's a dozy. Build and command a refugee fort in the middle of a Warfield. Man it with just a trickle of help, and share the major responsibilities with two of her friends, fellow green, new, Knights Merric and Neal. Control, protect and garner the respect of some 400 refugees who believe they've been passed into your care because obviously nobody cares about their fate (I mean look who is set up to command them!). On top of these already weighty responsibilities, Kel has additionally been instructed by the Chamber of Ordeal to find and kill Blayce, the mysterious source of King Maggur's horrifying killing machines. All and all a soft start to her knightly career I would say. As always though, Keladry of Mideland steps up to the plate. Not one to do things by halves, Kel takes on her new role with aplomb, and it's her success's, failure's and consistent struggle to do well by these people that makes the fourth book the best of the series. Add in her fabulous new charge Toby, some excellent new personalities in her group of refugees, and just the right mix of old friends doing amazing things because they believe in Kel, and you have the perfect finish to another great Tamora Pierce series. Tamora has said that Lady Knight was greatly influenced by 9/11 as she was part way through writing it and living in New York when the day came to pass. I wouldn't have made the association without her mentioning it, but I believe the experience added to her story telling skills immeasurably. The way everyone comes together to pull off an impossible feat, the way Kel performs her knightly duties diligently but not without remorse, and the references to the goodness in others no matter what side their on all speak to more worldly author than the one who wrote the do-it-yourself Hero Alanna (who I still love by the way). But WAIT! I haven't even told you the best part yet! There's a cat! A great grey and peach coloured cat that saves the day. Jump and the sparrows are great, as always, but I love me a great cat. Great books make you want to stand up and cheer, make you teary eyed, and in the end, make you wish you could join in and be a part of the fireworks. Lady Knight did all of this for me, and honestly, just thinking about it now leaves me with a warm fuzzy feeling. Join me in the rosy afterglow... pick it up today and then come on back and let me know what your favourite part is. ...more The final book in the Protector of the Small quartet finds Kel newly knighted and off to her first assignment, a command post nonetheless. The fact that her first assignment makes her a commander makes her more upset than anything else, first because she's nervous the more experienced knights and soldiers, and even the commoners, will not respect her, and second because commanding a refugee camp means she won't be out fighting battles and participating in what she initially sees as the more acti The final book in the Protector of the Small quartet finds Kel newly knighted and off to her first assignment, a command post nonetheless. The fact that her first assignment makes her a commander makes her more upset than anything else, first because she's nervous the more experienced knights and soldiers, and even the commoners, will not respect her, and second because commanding a refugee camp means she won't be out fighting battles and participating in what she initially sees as the more active and worthwhile part of war. But Kel is the perfect person for this job, and she soon comes to realize it as well. She's spent her entire career so far championing those who had trouble helping themselves, for whatever reason (hence the title of the quartet), and protecting refugees (and teaching them to fight and protect themselves) is probably the most effective use of her talents Lord Wyldon could have come up with. The book is split into two parts: the establishing of the refugee camp, which Kel calls Haven, and the rescue mission she must launch in order to save those refugees when no one else will. I really liked this series. Pierce's style is a bit understated for me to ever LOVE love this, but Kel is a wonderful heroine, and if I ever have a daughter, I'm definitely going to be adding this series to her collection. The way Kel is constantly encountering issues of gender, class, and power and then overcoming them is just really satisfying. I also really liked that the series didn't end with us finding out who Kel ends up with, because it doesn't matter. This wasn't a romance, it was Kel's coming of age. My only complaint is I'm fast running out of new Tamora Pierce books to read. ...more I have read this series at least once a year since the first time I got it. Pierce's portrayal of a young girl striving to accomplish a dream while being looked down on by many because of her gender was something that I, although having never personally experienced sexism at that level, understood and appreciated. Keladry is a great heroine and her ability to remain calm in the face of enormous obstacles is inspiring to me each time I read the series. The books aren't perfect, there are a few in I have read this series at least once a year since the first time I got it. Pierce's portrayal of a young girl striving to accomplish a dream while being looked down on by many because of her gender was something that I, although having never personally experienced sexism at that level, understood and appreciated. Keladry is a great heroine and her ability to remain calm in the face of enormous obstacles is inspiring to me each time I read the series. The books aren't perfect, there are a few instances where I felt that the language was a bit awkward, but it gets better as the series progresses and all of the characters made great impressions on me. I like that Kel is faced with many different kinds of challenges, and her confusion at crushes, menstruation, and puberty was very realistic, especially for her personality. ...more Reasonable finish to the series. Not quite the \"perfect\" ending that Pierce usually delivers for her heroines, but perhaps slightly more realistic. The final test also seemed unreal (more like a confusing dream sequence), and the neat pairing-off of the side characters, while Kel seems to have walked away empty-handed, was a bit anti-climatic. That's nit-picking, though, but that aside, the one thing that truly annoyed me was the extent to which Kel seems to have won everyone's hearts and magica Reasonable finish to the series. Not quite the \"perfect\" ending that Pierce usually delivers for her heroines, but perhaps slightly more realistic. The final test also seemed unreal (more like a confusing dream sequence), and the neat pairing-off of the side characters, while Kel seems to have walked away empty-handed, was a bit anti-climatic. That's nit-picking, though, but that aside, the one thing that truly annoyed me was the extent to which Kel seems to have won everyone's hearts and magically transformed the society from fearful and dismissing of a \"woman trying to do a man's job\" to one that largely approved of and even depended on her existence and skills. A surprising and rather unbelievable change; there is no way people around her can change so quickly, even if she's managed to impress them. Squire and Lady Knight were unfortunately a far cry from the awesome first two books. ...more Overall the series was good; not as great as Trickster's or Bekka Cooper, but I felt the last two books saved this series for me. It veered from standard format and delved into more interesting subject matter and jobs for Kel. Instead of keeping with knighthood, the story had Kel become a commander. The \"love\" interests in all the books felt tacked on and unnecessary, let alone as a way to end the story. Pierce's heroines can be single and enjoy it, but she always feels the need to hook all the Overall the series was good; not as great as Trickster's or Bekka Cooper, but I felt the last two books saved this series for me. It veered from standard format and delved into more interesting subject matter and jobs for Kel. Instead of keeping with knighthood, the story had Kel become a commander. The \"love\" interests in all the books felt tacked on and unnecessary, let alone as a way to end the story. Pierce's heroines can be single and enjoy it, but she always feels the need to hook all the characters up by the end of the series, like a Jane Austen novel. Lady Knights don't need crushes; the rest of the story will suffice! ...more This is the conclusion to the Protector of the Small series, and it is a great conclusion to the series. I love reading about Kel. She is a truly strong and admirable heroine. She also makes me want to be a better person. I think that's one of the reasons I like reading about her so much. It's not just Kel that makes this book though. All of the side characters are wonderful to read about. They all seemed real to me. The plot of this book (like so many final books in a series) is filled with act This is the conclusion to the Protector of the Small series, and it is a great conclusion to the series. I love reading about Kel. She is a truly strong and admirable heroine. She also makes me want to be a better person. I think that's one of the reasons I like reading about her so much. It's not just Kel that makes this book though. All of the side characters are wonderful to read about. They all seemed real to me. The plot of this book (like so many final books in a series) is filled with action. It makes it a quick read. Also, this book ends with Kel staying true to herself which makes me happy. ...more", "Title": "Lady Knight"},
