{"Comments": "<---A>Joe Hill</---A> has the story-telling gift and his terrific sophomore effort catapults him onto my \u201cauthors-to-watch\u201d list. I had some heated internal debates regarding what final rating to tag this with as I vacillated between 5, 4 and 3 stars depending on where I was in the book, eventually settling on a very strong 4. I don\u2019t think this ratings quandary necessarily reflects uneven levels of quality in Hill\u2019s execution. Rather, I think the back and forth resulted from the subtlety and complexity of Joe Hill has the story-telling gift and his terrific sophomore effort catapults him onto my \u201cauthors-to-watch\u201d list. I had some heated internal debates regarding what final rating to tag this with as I vacillated between 5, 4 and 3 stars depending on where I was in the book, eventually settling on a very strong 4. I don\u2019t think this ratings quandary necessarily reflects uneven levels of quality in Hill\u2019s execution. Rather, I think the back and forth resulted from the subtlety and complexity of the story Hill was telling which caught me a bit off guard. You know how some works you go into knowing that you need to be focused and mindful of parsing sentences for hidden nuggets of meaning, while other stories you can come to far more passively and just sit back and let them entertain you. Well I think I came to this story expecting the latter and thus was not as \u201cactive\u201d in my reading when confronted with some of the depth that Hill brought to this story. I\u2019m not saying this is Joyce (<---B>and thank goodness for that</---B>), but Hill shows some surprising chops for digging into the underbelly of who we are. PLOT SUMMARY : <+++>Horns</+++> is broken up into 50 chapters, five main segments of 10 chapters each. Chapter\u2019s 1-10 : Hell These opening chapters were a lot of fun and sported some wonderful dialogue (and monologue) as Ig,<---M> the main character</---M>, wakes up with a massive hangover and discovers, much to his \u201cwhat manner of fuckery is this\u201d surprise, that he has horns . In addition to the hat-handicapping appendages, Ig quickly discovers that he is able to provoke people into spilling their darkest secrets and into acting on their darkest desires. As Ig is struggling to come to grips with his new reality, we also learn that his life has been a deep dark place for many years following the brutal rape and murder of his girlfriend. Everyone, including Ig\u2019s family, believes he is guilty of the crime though he was never tried for it. I was at an awe-laden FIVE STARS for pure surface enjoyment and snappy dialogue and this section ends with a big reveal regarding the murder of Ig's girlfriend (Merrin Williams). Chapter\u2019s 11-20 : Cherry This second section of the book was the slowest part of the novel and the one I enjoyed the least. In it, Ig recalls his childhood and his early interaction with the main players of the story, Merrin Williams, Lee Tourneau and Ig's brother Terry Perrish. I found this section to be a serious downshifting to the pace established in Part I and I noticed that my attention began to drift. However, as I mentioned above, I think I may not have given Hill enough credit for under the surface meaning here. In hindsight, given how the story ended, this section provides some critical information that is essential to the eventual resolution and probably deserved a better effort from me while I was reading it. As it is, I had this labeled at 3.<---F>0 stars</---F>. Chapter\u2019s 21-30 : Fire Sermon Ramping right back up into 4/5 star territory, this segment details the day of Merrin\u2019s murder and had me fascinated and glued to the page. I don\u2019t want to spoil this by saying any more but Hill shows a tremendous gift for exploring the dark in this segment. He must have had a very good teacher. Chapter\u2019s 31-40 : Fixer Here Hill switches gears again and shows us the world through the eyes of Lee Tourneau, Ig's best fried growing up. These are the best chapters in the book in my opinion. Lee is a superbly drawn character and his portrayal by Joe Hill is subtle, complex and brilliant. It was while reading this segment that I truly began to see that there was far, far more to this novel than simply a well-written dark fantasy. Chapter\u2019s 41-50 : Gospel According to Mick and Keith The final 10 chapters tie the novel together into a very satisfying, though somewhat unexpected, ending. I thought the use of the \"Treehouse of the Mind\" was a nice device and showed Hill\u2019s skill for imagery as he illustrates the battle raging within Ig. While part of me would have liked a little more clarification on the meaning of the treehouse, most of me was pleased that I was allowed to arrive at my own conclusion about what the imagery and I can't call that a bad thing. THOUGHTS : Overall, this was an excellent novel and one that I intend to revisit at some point as I think a second reading may provide a more robust appreciation for the story. For now, I think it\u2019s safe to say that if you enjoyed Heart-Shaped Box: A Novel , this novel may blow you away. Both Hill's writing and story-telling have improved significantly over his debut novel and I expect some truly amazing work from him in the future. This guy has talent and I like that both of his stories have been unique and \"off the beaten path.\" 4.0 to 4.5 stars. Highly Recommended!! ...more Stephen King really messed up his son, Joe. It\u2019s not surprising. The children of famous people generally end up as tabloid fodder, and with King as a dad, I\u2019m shocked that one of his brood hasn\u2019t gone on an extended murder spree. King spends all day thinking of the most horrific shit possible to try and scare the collective pants off the reading public, and he had huge substance abuse problems when his kids were young. So you gotta assume that the conversations went something like this: \u201cJoe, get Stephen King really messed up his son, Joe. It\u2019s not surprising. The children of famous people generally end up as tabloid fodder, and with King as a dad, I\u2019m shocked that one of his brood hasn\u2019t gone on an extended murder spree. King spends all day thinking of the most horrific shit possible to try and scare the collective pants off the reading public, and he had huge substance abuse problems when his kids were young. So you gotta assume that the conversations went something like this: \u201cJoe, get Daddy another beer. And a mirror and a razor blade. First, tell me something. Would you be scared if I told you there was a clown in the storm drain waiting to lure you close and pull your arm off?\u201d No surprise then that King\u2019s son has grown up to write a couple of very disturbing horror novels. (And I also like that Joe uses an alias to avoid cashing in on the family name even if the secret is out.) <---C>Ignatius Perrish</---C>\u2019s girlfriend, Merrin, was raped and murdered, and he was the prime suspect. An accident destroyed most of the evidence against him so he was never tried. The entire New England town he lives in thinks he did it, and so does most of his family except for his brother, a famous talk-show host. Grief has completely derailed Ig\u2019s life, and he spends most of his time drunk. One night, Ig goes out and gets more wasted than usual. When he wakes, he doesn\u2019t just have a hangover. He\u2019s got a pair of horns coming out of his forehead and some surprising new abilities to go with them. I loved the early chapters of this and thought that it was going to be a book laced with dark humor about the nature of people and the hypocrisies of small towns. But the book shifts into outright tragedy and zeroes in on Ig\u2019s past with Merrin and how her death has destroyed his life. While it\u2019s always interesting, the book can\u2019t really decide what it wants to be. Maybe Joe Hill should have written one book about the tragic aftermath of a murder and another about a guy who wakes up with horns. Because the two tones really don\u2019t sync up well. There\u2019s still a lot to like here, but I don\u2019t think it delivered on the promise I saw in the early chapters. ...more In order to enjoy this book for the disappointment it is, I suggest the following for the over 21 crowd: Take one sip every time...: Someone exclaims any one of: \"No!\"; \"Oh my God!\u201d \u201cWhat ARE you?\u201d A character or location from a Stephen King novel is mentioned. You want to slap the main character and tell him to man up. Merrin\u2019s hair is described. The pace becomes inert. The word devil appears. (*Warning* you may get intoxicated from this action alone) The setting is either at the evil knieval tra In order to enjoy this book for the disappointment it is, I suggest the following for the over 21 crowd: Take one sip every time...: Someone exclaims any one of: \"No!\"; \"Oh my God!\u201d \u201cWhat ARE you?\u201d A character or location from a Stephen King novel is mentioned. You want to slap the main character and tell him to man up. Merrin\u2019s hair is described. The pace becomes inert. The word devil appears. (*Warning* you may get intoxicated from this action alone) The setting is either at the evil knieval trail or Lee\u2019s house. His style of writing makes you question if he really is King\u2019s son. You revisit a scene/character that has already been described ad nausea. Take two sips every time...: Plausibility exits stage right. Something way too convenient is revealed, but then just as quickly is dismissed. The narrator repeats himself. An animal/reptile dies. After countless pages of unnecessary descriptions of inanimate objects and places, you realize he is King\u2019s son. You can predict the outcome of each introduced character. (*Warning* this happens with every character) You yawn, doze off, skim, or rub your temple in frustration. Down the bottle every time \u2026: You feel a headache coming on because just as it was starting to get interesting, Hill slips into the past without even a head\u2019s up or Scooby effect. You start screaming, \u201cOk, but why does he have horns?! \u201d *And for all you tolerant drinkers out there who haven\u2019t had enough, I DARE you to drink every time you think a question, any question, is going to be answered... *Sidenote: If you\u2019ve found one likeable/fleshed-out character in this book \u2013 you\u2019ve drank too much. Step away from the computer and dial 9-1-1. ...more Remember, way back at the beginning of the year, when I said that I wanted to hump Hugh Laurie's leg for writing The Gun Seller ? After reading <+++>Horns</+++> , and just the ARC - not even the finished, shiny and perfect masterpiece - I want to hump Joe Hill's leg for writing it. Not too long ago, I read Hill's short story collection, 20th Century Ghosts , and in the intro, Christopher Golden says that Hill is subtle writer, that his stories are \"promises fulfilled\". I think that Golden's words about Joe Hi Remember, way back at the beginning of the year, when I said that I wanted to hump Hugh Laurie's leg for writing The Gun Seller ? After reading Horns , and just the ARC - not even the finished, shiny and perfect masterpiece - I want to hump Joe Hill's leg for writing it. Not too long ago, I read Hill's short story collection, 20th Century Ghosts , and in the intro, Christopher Golden says that Hill is subtle writer, that his stories are \"promises fulfilled\". I think that Golden's words about Joe Hill are even more apt when it comes to Horns . This is Joe Hill fulfilling his promise to readers. Horns is his promise to the world that he can keep pulling new and amazing tricks out of his bag, and each one will be better than the last. I'm sad that I'm finished, that it's over. I feel like I should just flip back to the beginning and read it again, because I know, without a doubt, that it will be even more brilliant the 2nd time around. Joe Hill's subtlety and brilliance is much more in evidence and has more effect in this book than any of his other books I've read. I don't even know how to gush enough to do justice to what I want to say! I feel like with every line that I read, there was another line behind it that added to the depth of the one I'd just read. The way that he wrote Lee was amazing. Seeing things through his eyes was truly scary and disturbing. (I don't want to give too much away about his character, but I will say this, I think that Joe Hill wrote Lee Tourneau better than his father, Stephen King wrote Junior Rennie.) When Ig sermonizes to the snakes, I was proud of him in that moment. Not simply for finally realizing that the snakes were his, but for his understanding of truth, and life, and love in that moment, and for accepting Merrin's decision that last night as being her right, even though it destroyed him. I feel like Joe Hill wrote these things, but then I also feel like he didn't write them, that he doesn't have to write them because they just seep out of the pages and into me. Merrin's letter is another one of those 'between the lines' bits. My heart hurt reading her letter to Ig, I felt like I was losing something myself, and I hurt for them. I definitely had some sympathy for the devil at that moment. Which brings me to my next couple of points. I love how music works its way into Hill's writing and stories, and the depth that it gives them. It's not just there for set dressing or for a pop culture stamp to place the story into a familiar territory for the reader, one gets the feeling that not only is music important to Hill, but that it is vital to him. I feel like he was speaking through Ig when he was appalled at Lee's lack of music appreciation, his plain statement that music is simply the background noise to events or action. Music is something that some people live and breathe, and I feel like Joe is one of those people, and because he is, so was Ig. I also loved the devillish humor inserted throughout the story. I love when a book can take me from one extreme to another, and this was no exception. I went from confusion, to shock, to laughter, to tears, to laughter, to more tears, etc. Every page brought some new revelation, and to me, Hill's timing with the humor and the heartache were spot on. I further loved the full picture of Merrin we got, even though we never got to really meet her. We got a composite of her from various other sources, like a police sketch artist making a picture from one person describing the nose, another describing the shape of the eyes, another giving us the hair, or the mouth, or the jawline, etc. Merrin's loss hit me like a ton of bricks, even though I knew about it from the beginning. But it still hurt, because I came to love her the way that Ig did - even though there was a brief time that I disliked her when I saw her through Lee's eyes. Even though I knew it was hopeless, I still wanted to hope that something would happen to magically reverse what actually DID happen. That was wishful thinking, but what I'm saying is that Joe Hill made me feel that way, despite knowing what I knew about the impossibility of that. I both loved and hated the way that people would spill their deepest and darkest thoughts to Ig, and I really felt for him having to endure the awful things that people thought about him. I couldn't imagine hearing those kinds of things from the people I love, and the people who are supposed to love me. Everyone claims to want the truth about how people feel about us, but I think that the plain, unvarnished truth is awful and unbearable. In my head, I can hear Jack Nicholson yelling, \"YOU CAN'T HANDLE THE TRUTH!\" and it's true. I would have probably just crawled in a hole somewhere if people had said to me what they said to Ig. So, kudos to him for being stronger than I am. I think that's enough gushing... There's a lot more that I wrote down to mention, but I think you all get the point now, don't you? If you haven't already, read this book. Discover the greatness that is Joe Hill. I'm waiting! :) ...more It's hard for me to rate this book. On one hand I was hooked within the first 20 pages. On the other hand though I found it emotionally draining and painful to read. There's a quote that Ig reads to himself that I think sums up my feelings as well: \"It goes against the American storytelling grain to have someone in a situation he can't get out of, but I think this is very usual in life.\" I often read fantasy and paranormal books to escape the harsh realities of life. It's the same reason I don't w It's hard for me to rate this book. On one hand I was hooked within the first 20 pages. On the other hand though I found it emotionally draining and painful to read. There's a quote that Ig reads to himself that I think sums up my feelings as well: \"It goes against the American storytelling grain to have someone in a situation he can't get out of, but I think this is very usual in life.\" I often read fantasy and paranormal books to escape the harsh realities of life. It's the same reason I don't watch the news or read it often on the internet. The most I normally expose myself to is the Daily Show and the Colbert Report because most of the time the news is full of death and horrible things. That's not to say that I'm completely ignorant of what's going on in the world, but seriously, turn on your local news and I bet most of the stories are about rape, death, and murder. I think this is sort of the reason I tend to steer away from horror novels and movies. I saw the first Saw movie and thought to myself, who would find something like this enjoyable? I just can't see the appeal of watching people suffer. But now, back to this book. I picked it up because of a recommendation from a friend at work. She enjoyed it and it sounded like it had just enough of a paranormal bent for me to be intrigued. I was literally hooked within the first few chapters but then when the story started taking place in the past things moved a little bit slower and I wasn't as enthralled as I initially was. Once the mystery starts to unravel though it quickly resembles a gruesome car crash; one you have to slowly drive past and gawk at. Ig Perrish wakes up the day after the one year anniversary of his girlfriend's death. He drank way too much the night before, did something he can't remember, and woke up with horns growing out of the middle of his forehead. When he's around people they tell him all kinds of dirty secrets, the stuff they want to do and how they really think, as if he's their own personal demon that they can confess to. And with this new ability, Ig finds out what his friends and family really think about him and the mystery of who really raped and killed his girlfriend slowly unfolds. Like I said, this was tough to read. Ig was blamed for the death of his girlfriend even though there wasn't any evidence to link him to the crime. He was a permanent person of interest though and he and his family suffered because of it. The things that Ig learns made me flinch as I read them. They're heartbreaking and terribly sad and they make you hate just about every character. As you learn more and more and realize the truth of what happened the night his girlfriend was killed you really just feel sorry for Ig. It's really a sad ending for a sad tale. I also thought the villain should have suffered more, but do they ever suffer enough for their crimes? I guess I can say I liked this book but I didn't like the way it made me feel. I want to read Hill's other books though because I think he's a good writer. I'm just hoping his other stories aren't as tragic. ...more Ignatius Perrish's longtime girlfriend was murdered and the whole town thinks he did it but he's walking free because the evidence was destroyed. After an all night bender, he wakes up with horns sticking out of his head that allow him to hear the thoughts of others. When he learns the identity of Merrin's killer, things start spiraling out of control... First off, the good points. Joe Hill's writing is a throwback to his father's early days, back when people had the guts to edit him and his stil Ignatius Perrish's longtime girlfriend was murdered and the whole town thinks he did it but he's walking free because the evidence was destroyed. After an all night bender, he wakes up with horns sticking out of his head that allow him to hear the thoughts of others. When he learns the identity of Merrin's killer, things start spiraling out of control... First off, the good points. Joe Hill's writing is a throwback to his father's early days, back when people had the guts to edit him and his still wrote like the bastard son of John D. McDonald and Richard Matheson. He paints an accurate picture of small town life and what it's like to lose the most important person in the world to you. Also, I found the sociopathic villain of the piece to be quite hate-worthy and couldn't wait for Ig to settle his account permanently. And now, the rest. I don't know if it was the case of wrong book, wrong time for me but I felt like the book didn't know what it was trying to be. Is it a revenge story? Is it about how death can devastate a small town? I felt like the story kept wandering away from the parts I cared about. While I felt Ig's pain, I didn't think he was a very well developed character. Lee was the only character of any substance in the book. Note that 2 stars does not mean I hated it. I felt it was okay but I couldn't help looking at the other unread books on my shelf and knowing I would enjoy a number of them more than this. ...more I need three things to make the hurt go away: and Ig Peri\u0161, 26-godi\u0161nji mladi\u0107 koji krade Bogu dane posle tragedije koja ga je zadesila, budi se jednog jutra mamuran, bez se\u0107anja na prethodnu no\u0107, sa rogovima na glavi. Vrlo brzo uvi\u0111a da rogovi nisu samo ro\u017enati izra\u0161taji, ve\u0107 da zahvaljuju\u0107i njima mo\u017ee da sazna najgre\u0161nije misli ljudi oko sebe, kao i da uti\u010de na njihove postupke. Ig Peri\u0161 postaje vrsni poznavalac \"univerzalnog jezika - jezika greha\". \"Rogovi\" je drugi Hilov roman koji sam bila u prilici da pro\u010ditam (prvi je bio \"Kutija u obliku Ig Peri\u0161, 26-godi\u0161nji mladi\u0107 koji krade Bogu dane posle tragedije koja ga je zadesila, budi se jednog jutra mamuran, bez se\u0107anja na prethodnu no\u0107, sa rogovima na glavi. Vrlo brzo uvi\u0111a da rogovi nisu samo ro\u017enati izra\u0161taji, ve\u0107 da zahvaljuju\u0107i njima mo\u017ee da sazna najgre\u0161nije misli ljudi oko sebe, kao i da uti\u010de na njihove postupke. Ig Peri\u0161 postaje vrsni poznavalac \"univerzalnog jezika - jezika greha\". \"Rogovi\" je drugi Hilov roman koji sam bila u prilici da pro\u010ditam (prvi je bio \"Kutija u obliku srca\") i bogami Hil je poprili\u010dno napredovao, prime\u0107uje se zrelost u njegovom pisanju. Re\u010denice su daleko konkretnije i sadr\u017eajnije. U ovom romanu, autor na originalan i veoma ma\u0161tovit na\u010din obra\u0111uje gre\u0161nu stranu ljudske prirode. Hilu se ne mo\u017ee osporiti kreativnost i veliki talenat, karakterizacija likova je na veoma visokom nivou, radnja neusiljeno te\u010de, a pored toga on u svoje romane unosi i odre\u0111enu dozu zabave, pa su \"Rogovi\" roman koji se brzo \u010dita, u kome nema stagnacije i koji uvla\u010di \u010ditaoca u \u010dudnovati svet Iga Peri\u0161a. Ocena:4.5/5 ...more 4.5 Stars When people saw me reading this they would ask if it was \"any good.\" To say that this was good would be a massive understatement. It was supremely good. It was deliciously good. It was piss-your-pants good. It was leave-the-lights-on-all-night good. Yeah, it rocked! I was haunted, I was chilled, I was tingled, I was addicted. Putting the book down, even for a moment, was a hardship. Hill wrote about a psychopath that was so real, so disturbing, so terrifying, that I just wanted to peel 4.5 Stars When people saw me reading this they would ask if it was \"any good.\" To say that this was good would be a massive understatement. It was supremely good. It was deliciously good. It was piss-your-pants good. It was leave-the-lights-on-all-night good. Yeah, it rocked! I was haunted, I was chilled, I was tingled, I was addicted. Putting the book down, even for a moment, was a hardship. Hill wrote about a psychopath that was so real, so disturbing, so terrifying, that I just wanted to peel off my own skin and run as fast as I could in the opposite direction. Dude, he was scary !! Looking forward to getting my hands on more by Hill...say, around Halloween? Mwahahahahaha. P.S. I've never done this before, but I must comment on the paper quality of the hardback. It was sublime! If paper can be described as buttery then this was some buttery paper. Awesome. (First Reads Win) ...more *After second reading* VERY GOOD. watch my video review here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZT4m3... *First read in Nov/Dec 2012* This book was psychotic, sad, humorous, mysterious, and did I say psychotic? Imagine waking up with a pair of horns growing out of your head and every person you encounter suddenly has a compulsion to tell you their darkest thoughts and actions. Twilight Zone is a kid's show compared to this! After pissing his pants, the main character: Ig decides to make the best of this unbelievable situation. The love of his life was murdered and he didn't do it. But lucky for him, he can find out who did. Pro This book was psychotic, sad, humorous, mysterious, and did I say psychotic? Imagine waking up with a pair of horns growing out of your head and every person you encounter suddenly has a compulsion to tell you their darkest thoughts and actions. Twilight Zone is a kid's show compared to this! After pissing his pants, the main character: Ig decides to make the best of this unbelievable situation. The love of his life was murdered and he didn't do it. But lucky for him, he can find out who did. Process of elimination...Ig's got a whole bunch of ugly to get through. Joe Hill 's writing engaged me from the first chapter. I mean, I couldn't believe what I was reading but I loved it! The beginning is incredibly dark, the middle is a lot of flashback content (some helpful but most was very long-winded and unnecessary IMO), and the end is a fast ride on the highway to hell...literally. Horns was a great horror novel that I enjoyed very much. It had its highs and lows but I would definitely recommend it to fans of the genre. It has been adapted to film and TGIF because I'm watching it this weekend! My favorite quote: \"You think you know someone. But mostly you just know what you want to know.\" 8/23/2016 Movie Review: I finished reading the book on a Friday and ended up watching the movie that same Friday. I just couldn't wait. On the one hand, my excitement to watch this film was 100%...obviously. But when you're that high, there's nowhere to go but down. I liked the movie but not nearly as much as the book. That's no surprise to my fellow readers though. It was a decent adaptation and it was definitely worth the time in my opinion. I'm glad I watched it. (view spoiler) [I thought the villain's death scene at the end would never end. I mean, really? How long does it take a guy to die? (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I had high expectations for this book. It completely blew those expectations out of the water! This review might end up as a bunch of disjointed thoughts, because I'm having trouble organizing exactly how I felt. Warning: The beginning of this story is slightly soul-crushing. This book doesn't put a lot of faith in humanity, at least not in the beginning (I won't disclose anything about the end). As long as you don't take that aspect of it too seriously, it can be so good . The setting was superbly I had high expectations for this book. It completely blew those expectations out of the water! This review might end up as a bunch of disjointed thoughts, because I'm having trouble organizing exactly how I felt. Warning: The beginning of this story is slightly soul-crushing. This book doesn't put a lot of faith in humanity, at least not in the beginning (I won't disclose anything about the end). As long as you don't take that aspect of it too seriously, it can be so good . The setting was superbly visualized; a small town, lovely and charming on the outside and marred by sin on the inside. The character development was on point. There was so much depth. I loved Ig as the anti-hero. When he felt rage, I felt rage. And there was a lot of rage. This book was relentless in terms of its emotional pull on the reader. It dragged me through so many disparate feelings, I felt like I'd nearly been whiplashed. But it was so worth it. I can see why some people didn't like this as much as others did. The middle isn't super action-packed, and focuses mostly on characters' flashbacks, but I loved Joe Hill's expressive writing style. He really knows how to get into his characters' heads and expose their most reserved and unrefined thoughts. (view spoiler) [Lee Tourneau's thoughts (hide spoiler) ] made my skin crawl. It was dark and raw and vengeful. Absolutely gripping and so unconventional. I'm so glad I finally read something by Joe Hill, and I'm even more glad that I loved it. I will definitely be reading more of his books in the future! ...more Joe Hill writes from a dark and mysterious place. When I read this book, I was enthralled and uncomfortable at the same time. With every Hill novel I have read, the evil is unconventional and twisted. In this novel, the protagonist connects with the dark forces through mysterious horns growing out of his head . . . and it only gets stranger from there. My guess is that 9 out of 10 readers will have no idea exactly what happened, but there is a good chance that most of them will have enjoyed it ( Joe Hill writes from a dark and mysterious place. When I read this book, I was enthralled and uncomfortable at the same time. With every Hill novel I have read, the evil is unconventional and twisted. In this novel, the protagonist connects with the dark forces through mysterious horns growing out of his head . . . and it only gets stranger from there. My guess is that 9 out of 10 readers will have no idea exactly what happened, but there is a good chance that most of them will have enjoyed it (I was one of those). ...more 3.5 stars \u201cYou think you know someone. But mostly you just know what you want to know.\u201d Of course I know by now that Joe Hill is none other than the son of the nearly worshipped Stephen King. I keep seeing praise in my feed and groups about his work, but Horns is my first taste of what he's offering. I'd seen - and loved - the movie on Netflix a few months before reading this. Since the book and movie are so similar, there weren't surprises waiting for me. That soured it a little but I still loved 3.5 stars \u201cYou think you know someone. But mostly you just know what you want to know.\u201d Of course I know by now that Joe Hill is none other than the son of the nearly worshipped Stephen King. I keep seeing praise in my feed and groups about his work, but Horns is my first taste of what he's offering. I'd seen - and loved - the movie on Netflix a few months before reading this. Since the book and movie are so similar, there weren't surprises waiting for me. That soured it a little but I still loved the story. It's inventive and surreal, sort of like a parable vibe horror tale that uses symbolism but refrains from being preachy. It's hard to say what it all means, but that's part of its appeal. Joe Hill gets brownie points for being original and daring. There's dark humor that pops up to be played with, but overall it's a richly dark tale. I'm judging it to be a horror-drama piece, but its not frightening in any suspenseful way. The mystery is strong since the main focus for the character continues to be finding out who killed his girlfriend, with the side story of his horns being another mystery in the background. The book wins when it comes to the villain because I was able to be inside his head, understand his views more and see the pure evil that existed. There was the strange situation with his mother and demented glimpses into his childhood. In the movie he wasn't done that well, but I have to say I actually prefer the main character in the film. Hill writes a little dryly when it comes to emotion, so to me Iggy was too distant with the way his feelings were written. I grew into that writing style later as the book progressed, but it made it harder to grab me in the first half. Seriously trippy scenes were awesome - especially with the snakes, his bizarre relationship with the other characters, and that creepy horn making people tell the truth and act on their true impulses. I've seen some reviewers write that this book didn't know what genre it wanted to be or what direction to go in, and they're right. It reads at times like a horror piece, but then it turns completely around tries to be a mystery, to then turn around again and be a drama piece for awhile. That doesn't bother me since I actually like those quirky books that combine so many genres it almost comes across mentally confused. It's not a perfect book - the other characters other than Iggy were stronger with emotional depth- but the story was intriguing. I'll definitely give Hill another go in the future. ...more \u201cThe best way to get even with anyone is to put them in the rear-view mirror on your way to something better.\u201d Update: Just watched the movie I would give it a 6/10 the book is still way better This book rapidly broke into one of the best books I have ever read. In my small reading life, I have never come across a book that has such a bizarre concept with its own unique premise and an amazing story line that just leaves you\u2026 \u201cI guess Satan was the first superhero [...] In his first \u201cThe best way to get even with anyone is to put them in the rear-view mirror on your way to something better.\u201d Update: Just watched the movie I would give it a 6/10 the book is still way better This book rapidly broke into one of the best books I have ever read. In my small reading life, I have never come across a book that has such a bizarre concept with its own unique premise and an amazing story line that just leaves you\u2026 \u201cI guess Satan was the first superhero [...] In his first adventure, he took the form of a snake to free two prisoners being held naked in a Third World jungle prison by an all-powerful megalomaniac. At the same time, he broadened their diet and introduced them to their own sexuality.\u201d This book was made extra cool by the fact that it was my first buddy read with Liz , Ron & Paul and I had such a fun time discussing it. Seeing the others perspectives really added depth to the story and made the book that much greater. Thanks guys and I really can\u2019t wait for future reads. You Guys Rock!!! [/caption] \u201cIt bewildered Ig, the idea that a person could not be interested in music. It was like not being interested in happiness.\u201d The book broke bounds in storytelling, it was like putting a puzzle together or being shoved into a new world and you have to navigate through it yourself, it wasn\u2019t hard to get into the story because Joe Hill \u2019s writing has this dark humor to it. Literally the first page we meet Ignatius Martin Perrish (IG) who woke up with horns(Hence the title) .He can apparently see into peoples inner dark secrets, people treat him like a priest in a confession box and so many fucked up things that came with the horns. His life was pretty fucked up before the horns came into play, from losing the love of his life to a heinous murder and him being the main suspect, basically the whole town hates him so you can imagine what the guy was going through\u2026 \u201cYou think you know someone. But mostly you just know what you want to know.\u201d As I said before, Hill is talented and Stephen King must be so proud because he created such an amazing book with a concept that just blows my mind just think about it. Sometimes it read like a crime novel in which you were the detective and the need to find answers will have you flipping the pages, trying to piece the puzzle together. It also read like a horror novel *not the kind of monsters under your bed* but the kind where you question your own morality and seeing how messed up being a human being is\u2026 In all sense this was just a book that was on its own level and you can\u2019t pinpoint it to a certain genre just like most of Stephen King \u2019s work. You will have this weird feeling that you aren't supposed to be enjoying what is happening to some people or the feeling of killing of some people and the author manged to put the reader into this grey area of \" morality \", I loved it. \u201cWhen you think about it, most of the good ideas came along to make sin a whole lot easier.\u201d Themes and Symbolism shone throughout the book and they were funny, dark, twisted and thought provoking. He managed to incorporate and played around with the concept of religion and his use biblical references with a twist was pure genius.. For Example : \u201cHe paused, twisting his goatee, considering the law in Deuteronomy that forbade clothes with mixed fibers. A problematic bit of Scripture. A matter that required thought. \"Only the devil wants man to have a wide range of lightweight and comfortable styles to choose from,\" he murmured at last, trying out a new proverb. \"Although there may be no forgiveness for polyester. On this one matter, Satan and the Lord are in agreement.\u201d and Also... \u201cI see God now as an unimaginative writer of popular fictions, someone who builds stories around sadistic and graceless plots, narratives that exist only to express His terror of a woman's power to choose who and how to love, to redefine love as she sees fit, not as God thinks it ought to be. The author is unworthy of His own characters.\u201d Really good stuff!!!! It was witty and pushed the envelope a bit and I ate it like my favorite dessert. The characters in themselves were twisted and almost life like, you could see the growth of the main character as he slowly loses his gullibility and realizes that the world is pretty messed up. The side characters were fleshed out to the bone and done so well because we got to see their dark-side which made them essential to the story and I was so happy about that because most side characters are just cardboard cut outs. I went into this book with the intention of comparing father and son but I got out with a new favorite author, who can write a story like no one I have ever read. I am so happy that I decided to read this and I can\u2019t wait to read his other works. What The Heck are you reading this for, get of your ass and read this god damn book!!!! P.S. This was one of the most quotable books I have ever read!!! I can't wait to see the movie adaptation. Also check out his graphic novel Locke and Key :) Thanks For Reading Guys and Happy Reading!!! ...more Ignatius (Ig) wakes up from a drunken stupor to discover he has horns growing out of his head. At first he believes he\u2019s losing his mind but quickly discovers that they are indeed real and come with a terrifying power that compel others to spill what they\u2019re really thinking and it\u2019s never all hearts and flowers either. Poor Ig learns things about those closest to him that would destroy most people and soon realizes he is completely alone. A year earlier the love of his life, Merrill, was brutally Ignatius (Ig) wakes up from a drunken stupor to discover he has horns growing out of his head. At first he believes he\u2019s losing his mind but quickly discovers that they are indeed real and come with a terrifying power that compel others to spill what they\u2019re really thinking and it\u2019s never all hearts and flowers either. Poor Ig learns things about those closest to him that would destroy most people and soon realizes he is completely alone. A year earlier the love of his life, Merrill, was brutally raped and murdered and though Ig was never formally charged his small town has convicted him in their minds believing his well to-do parents pulled strings that allowed him to get away with murder. He\u2019s been unable to find any sort of peace -- thus the drunken stupor of the previous night. With his devilish new powers, Ig is a man on a mission determined to find a killer . . . The book then switches off going back to the past and present and becomes a unique mystery, love story, coming of age tale that brings all the characters to vivid life. It\u2019s horrible, beautiful, emotional, darkly humorous and one of the best books I\u2019ve read. I am going to track down a copy of this book on audio to keep on my Ipod. ...more Oh, what a book! How wicked, how sardonic, how devilishly good! But with the main character called Ignatius (which means fire or firey one ), what can you expect? Nothing better than a lovely strange story with well-fleshed characters and a subtle creepy atmosphere, with the theme of revenge smouldering in the background. One year ago Merrin Williams, Ignatius Perrish\u2019s girlfriend, was found raped and murdered in the woods. Ig was the main suspect and although there was never any evidence to char Oh, what a book! How wicked, how sardonic, how devilishly good! But with the main character called Ignatius (which means fire or firey one ), what can you expect? Nothing better than a lovely strange story with well-fleshed characters and a subtle creepy atmosphere, with the theme of revenge smouldering in the background. One year ago Merrin Williams, Ignatius Perrish\u2019s girlfriend, was found raped and murdered in the woods. Ig was the main suspect and although there was never any evidence to charge or try him, the general public is still convinced Ig is the killer. Living in exile and hated by everyone, even his own family, Ig wakes up after one hell of a night to find horns growing out of his head. Is this divine punishment or a gift from the devil? Because the horns don\u2019t only keep growing, they also cause everyone Ig meets to spill his or her darkest secrets to him. Sexual fantasies, cruel thoughts, obscene wishes\u2026as well as brutal truths about Merrin\u2019s real murderer. This man is no stranger to Ig and hides a twisted mind behind his friendly appearance. Now armed with the mysterious horns, Ig has the chance to set things right and bring justice to the world, in his own immoral way. \u201cSatan and God are supposed to be at war with each other. But if God hates sin and Satan punishes the sinners, aren\u2019t they working the same side of the street? Aren\u2019t the judge and the executioner on the same team?\u201d The mystery about Merrin\u2019s death and Ig\u2019s horns has an interesting build-up. The book is separated into five parts, each having ten chapters, where the second and the fourth part are flashbacks to Ig\u2019s past and Merrin\u2019s murder. Those flashback were killing for the pace of the story because you mostly want to read about Ig and the effects of the horns. Despite that the flashbacks do add depth to the (relationships between the) characters, even though the insights into the murderer\u2019s mind were really unsettling. There is also a lot of (religious) symbolism in the book, which I absolutely loved. Some people might be put off by questions about God\u2019s goodness and the pro\u2019s of sinning, but it fitted with the mood of the story. Recurring images like Merrin\u2019s necklace, Lee\u2019s death eye, and the numerous snakes were clever hints towards a hidden theological layer, but at the same time they grounded the storyline. They kept the story realistic, in a strange way. The same counts for the characters. Ignatius, Lee, Merrin, and Terry all start out as classic character-types: the main character, the best friend, the dead girl and the cool older brother. However, thanks to Ig\u2019s horns their hidden thoughts and emotions come spilling out, revealing how well developed the four of them are. They have motives, flaws, dreams: they all are human. And as the story illustrates, is that sometimes humans can be scarier than the devil himself. In conclusion Horns has a brilliant plot, well-rounded characters and intriguing themes like revenge, faith, and the nature of evil. Joe Hill is subtle with the horror-elements, but when they do show up, they creep under your skin like snakes. I can\u2019t give the book 5 stars because the flashbacks were really dragging and not all the symbolism was that strong ( (view spoiler) [ what was the meaning of Lee\u2019s death eye? What was the meaning of the \u201cfixing the moon scene\u201d in the first place? Can someone explain! (hide spoiler) ] ), but I loved reading this book and it\u2019s one that really deserved its 4 stars . A definite recommend and a great Halloween-read! ...more Well, I see a lot of reviewers liked this one... I may not be the first, but if I am, please let me be the first to disagree. Maybe it wasn't totally crap, but I found it a major disappointment. Let me say I liked Heart Shaped Box a lot. It was a genuinely scary book that while it might not have broken totally \"new\" ground proved that the writer could do good psychological terror/horror without resorting to cheap cop out. This book, while not being terrible, was full of cop outs, stereotypes, (an Well, I see a lot of reviewers liked this one... I may not be the first, but if I am, please let me be the first to disagree. Maybe it wasn't totally crap, but I found it a major disappointment. Let me say I liked Heart Shaped Box a lot. It was a genuinely scary book that while it might not have broken totally \"new\" ground proved that the writer could do good psychological terror/horror without resorting to cheap cop out. This book, while not being terrible, was full of cop outs, stereotypes, (and carefully PC stereotypes at that), cliches, and even formulaic situations. I'm sorry Mr. Hill, I truly liked Heart Shaped Box and snatched this one up on the strength of that book...and while I hope you do well, I found this a major, major disappointment. The story has been synopsized by others so there's no need to go through that. Once Ig wakes up and finds his horns the world spins away...people telling him their worst desires, he can even \"urge\" them into doing terrible things if they \"really\" want to...on we go through cathartic meetings, flashbacks, revelations, insights, and so on. The books \"hook\" is a good one and will catch your interest from the first...unfortunately very soon the rest of the story \"horns\" it's way in. While not being hard to read, Hill's writing still flows and the story mostly holds together there are some tortured scenes where it seems to me that Hill wants to expand the story but in this tale, that ought to break out into thought provoking territory and original thinking, his own myopia crashes into the prose. I read it without having to put it down and the story is what it is...it's not to be rated in the terrible books column, just the ones I really had high hopes for and was terribly disappointed by. 2 stars I suppose. ...more Horns - Joe Hill Beauty, Books and Babble After seeing the trailer for the movie adaptation of Horns , I naturally made the decision to read the book before watching the film, and after hearing nothing but good things about it from my brother, I couldn't wait to get stuck in. Horns follows the story of Ignatius Perrish, who is living in his very own hell where his childhood sweetheart and long-term girlfriend, Merrin, has been murdered, and despite the lack of evidence, Ig is the prime suspect, an Horns - Joe Hill Beauty, Books and Babble After seeing the trailer for the movie adaptation of Horns , I naturally made the decision to read the book before watching the film, and after hearing nothing but good things about it from my brother, I couldn't wait to get stuck in. Horns follows the story of Ignatius Perrish, who is living in his very own hell where his childhood sweetheart and long-term girlfriend, Merrin, has been murdered, and despite the lack of evidence, Ig is the prime suspect, and everyone in his town believes he did it. When Ig wakes up one morning with an aching head, a stinking hangover, and a fresh pair of horns on his head , he finds he has the scary, yet strangely compelling, ability to make everyone and anyone confide their deepest, darkest thoughts, and with just a touch, Ig can see the multitude of sins people in his town have committed. \u201cHe threw the Bible into the trumpet case as well. There had to be something in there, some useful tips for his situation, a homeopathic remedy that you could apply when you came down with a bad case of the devil. \u201d There is just one thing Ig wants to do with his newfound power; he wants to find out who actually committed the crime he has been so wrongly accused of... I am so pleased to say that Joe Hill has followed in the footsteps of his father, the King of horror ( see what I did there?! ), and has adopted a writing style that keeps you engrossed. He's also inherited that wonderfully twisted and frighteningly magnificent mind. In all honestly, I don't feel my review can do this book justice . Joe Hill's writing is effortless, and this book grabbed me firmly from the start, held on tightly through every twist and turn within the pages, and still lingers on my skin long after turning the final page. I, like so many readers before me, travelled through every human emotion when reading this book. You will find yourself laughing, boiling with anger, feeling helpless, a few glimmers of hopefulness, and then your heart will be ripped from your chest and squeezed until you sob over the pages of the book. In my opinion, great characters make a great book , and this book was full of them. I became so darn invested in Ig. He clearly is a just a normal (minus the horns), good guy, and I felt my heart break every time the people in his town tore him down with their vicious and honest words. I found myself falling in love with his wonderful brother Terry, and Merrin was the perfect portrayal of a likeable young woman. Ig is blatantly completely in love with Merrin, and it hurt every time I was reminded that her death meant there was no way for them to reunite. Lee, our antagonist of the story, is astoundingly creepy, and Joe Hill did an amazing job of writing from his perspective. He genuinely is pure evil , and never failed to make my skin crawl. His dire obsessions with Merrin, fixation with violence and warped mind were far more terrifying than any monster. These traits were made all the more disconcerting by the fact that his true personality was hidden for so long, and he appeared to everyone as a friend. So, if you fancy a rollercoaster ride through the entire spectrum of emotions, I urge you to pick up this book and read it! Though maybe refrain if you don't like the occasional bit of cursing and gore (I personally love that s**t!). \u201cHim and God are supposed to be at war with each other. But if God hates sin and Satan punishes the sinners, aren\u2019t they working the same side of the street? Aren\u2019t the judge and the executioner on the same team?\u201d ...more I'm not a giant fan of the horror genre, but I'm glad I gave this book a chance as it was a decent enough read. Horns was more of a dark fantasy with a heavy dose of black comedy rather than your regular gore filled horror story, though it did have a few gory horror moments, and I think that is probably why I enjoyed it so much. Ignatius Perrish wakes up after a heavy night of boozing to discover he has grown a pair of horns! At first he thinks he has simply lapsed into madness. Who could blame h I'm not a giant fan of the horror genre, but I'm glad I gave this book a chance as it was a decent enough read. Horns was more of a dark fantasy with a heavy dose of black comedy rather than your regular gore filled horror story, though it did have a few gory horror moments, and I think that is probably why I enjoyed it so much. Ignatius Perrish wakes up after a heavy night of boozing to discover he has grown a pair of horns! At first he thinks he has simply lapsed into madness. Who could blame him as he has had a terrible time over the last year after his girlfriend was raped and murdered in the previous summer. To make matters worse Ig is the prime, and only real, suspect but has never been charged due to a lack of evidence. Not that this has stopped the people of Ig's home town from convicting him in the court of public opinion! It quickly becomes apparent to Ig that the horns are not only real but come with special powers. They have the power to make people reveal their darkest secrets and desires to Ig. After a few harrowing encounters with friends, family, and strangers Ig decides to give in to the sinful pull of the horns and sets about using their powers to track down Merrin's murderer in order to have his revenge. The concept was a weird, but incredibly intriguing one. Joe Hill did a decent job with the story. It had a nice balance of dark humour, action, and sad introspective moments. That said, I still felt like this had the potential to be a lot better than it actually was. I actually found the start of the story a bit tough as Ig is not the easiest of characters to like and his new powers tended to draw out the worst in everyone he met. As the story progressed and the characters developed a bit things got a bit more engaging. I was not super enamoured with the ending, but it was a small flaw in the overall scheme of things as the bulk of the story was fun and interesting. So how does Joe Hill compare to his daddy? Favourably in my opinion. I think Joe has a slicker and more engaging writing style. Though just like his father he struggles to write characters I find likeable or emotionally engaging. All in all I enjoyed this unusual dark fantasy and will be happy to try another of Joe Hill's books in the future. I'll likely also give the movie version a go. Rating: 3.5 stars. Audio Note: This was narrated superbly by Fred Berman. ...more After a night of alcoholic indulgence and doing terrible things, Ignatius Perrish wakes up very hungover and very surprised - he discovers that somehow when he was passed out a pair of horns grew on his head. Understandably shocked by the fact, Ig at first tries to deny the very existence of his horns - he it on booze-influenced hallucinations. Just to be sure, he decides to see a doctor and confirm that everything is all right with him. Because the horns do feel very real... The visit to the doc After a night of alcoholic indulgence and doing terrible things, Ignatius Perrish wakes up very hungover and very surprised - he discovers that somehow when he was passed out a pair of horns grew on his head. Understandably shocked by the fact, Ig at first tries to deny the very existence of his horns - he it on booze-influenced hallucinations. Just to be sure, he decides to see a doctor and confirm that everything is all right with him. Because the horns do feel very real... The visit to the doctor's brings another shock - one possibly even more unpleasant. Ig discovers that no one notices his horns - but that people react to them; out of the blue, they begin to tell him things, very ugly things that they kept in secret. The horns seem to make people tell Ig what they really think, and it's not always pleasant. especially considering the fact that Ig's girlfriend, Merrin, has been murdered not long ago - and although Ig was never even charged with murder, most of the citizens of the small town where he lives are convinced that it was him who did it... Joe Hill's second novel is much better than his first, but is still a problematic work. It has one big advantage - a bombastic and fantastical premise, which was the calling card of the late Richard Matheson (who brought us the man who saw a monster on the airplane's wing, a lone old woman attacked by miniature flying saucers, and a driver stalked by an enormous tanker truck on a lonely road - the first two became classic Twilight Zone episodes, and the latter the basis for a great early Spielberg film), and the factor which made him great - the ability to imagine a truly outlandish situation and make it work in a real-life setting. I disliked his first novel because it was so uninspired and mundane - such an interesting concept was precisely what it lacked. While Hill's second novel is definitely not a sophomore Jinx, it is still not without its problems. The biggest one seems that it doesn't really know what it aims to be, and tries combining several things into one - with mixed results. is Horns a King-ish novel about the horrors and hypocrisies of small-town life, like Needful Things ? Or is it a murder mystery?A story of personal revenge? Or a fantasy about a man who one day woke up with horns on his head? The horns make other people reveal their deepest, innermost secrets. But why do these secrets almost always happen consist of depraved sexual behavior and fantasies. I expected a bit more creativity - reading about the umpteenth male character who's secretly a pervert was tiring and soon turned into a cliche (and why is that women never seem to have truly perverted sexual fantasies? Are female perverts and sexual predators somehow absent from Hill's - and his father's - fictional universes?) There uncertainty that I mentioned above echoes in the uncertainty in narrative structure, which results in a whole lot of repetition - essentially, the same story is narrated from several different points of view, which technically should give the readers more insight into the situation and the nature of the characters, but I just couldn't force myself to care - particularly about Ig and Lee, which was not good since they were the two main characters of the novel. The storyline becomes more fantastical as it goes on, eventually becoming overburdened with its own weight and symbolism. It takes a final turn near the end., which - while touching - looks more like a gimmicky attempt at a twist than a genuine development. Still, Horns proves that Joe Hill is a writer with many interesting ideas. I have now read all of his novels, and think that his last - NOS4A2 - is the best of the bunch, and shows that he is still developing creatively as a writer. Hill might be the next mainstream author to genuinely resurrect horror fiction in the tradition of Richard Matheson and early Stephen King, and I am looking forward to see what he does next. ...more 3.5 WWID (What Would Ig Do) Stars For Halloween I stepped out of my comfort zone and decided to try something a little different. I thought this would be a horror novel, while it is disturbing at times it isn\u2019t scary and the dialogue is so smart as to make you really think. There are a few theological statements that really made me think. Statements like the one below sat with me for days - \u201cHim and God are supposed to be at war with each other. But if God hates sin and Satan punishes the sinn 3.5 WWID (What Would Ig Do) Stars For Halloween I stepped out of my comfort zone and decided to try something a little different. I thought this would be a horror novel, while it is disturbing at times it isn\u2019t scary and the dialogue is so smart as to make you really think. There are a few theological statements that really made me think. Statements like the one below sat with me for days - \u201cHim and God are supposed to be at war with each other. But if God hates sin and Satan punishes the sinners, aren\u2019t they working the same side of the street? Aren\u2019t the judge and the executioner on the same team?\u201d Ig was the nicest guy you\u2019d ever meet, he had the best girlfriend that he loved most of his life since they were kids. He is a good brother and a true friend. But that was before. Before Merrin was murdered and everyone assumed he did it. That was before he woke up with a set of Horns and everyone started telling him their deepest sins and most horrible wishes. Ig is a different man without Merrin and it appears the devil knows it too. \u201cHe threw the Bible into the trumpet case as well. There had to be something in there, some useful tips for his situation, a homeopathic remedy that you could apply when you came down with a bad case of the devil.\u201d This is a hard book to rate. There were moments I liked, there were moments I hated and then there were moments that I was so uncomfortable with the story that I almost wanted to walk away but couldn\u2019t. When in the mind of the bad guy who is evil or crazy or both it is uncomfortable and I think it should be. I wasn\u2019t sure how I felt about him. I hated him, pitied him, hoped he die a slow and miserable death he made my stomach queasy. I thought all those things at some point in the story. But I couldn\u2019t\u2019 stop looking at the disaster that he was and I guess that is part of what you are looking for in a good villain. The story isn\u2019t perfect, it jumps around a lot and it is sometimes more a conglomeration of moments and events than an actual cohesive plot. But all the same I liked how different it was. If you could convince people to carry out their deepest, darkest desires would you? If you could touch a person and know every sin they committed would it change you or could you change them? \u201cMaybe all the schemes of the devil were nothing compared to what man could think up.\u201d I did get a little bored when going through parts of Ig\u2019s childhood but without that frame of reference I don\u2019t think I would have understood how much he has changed in the year since Merrin\u2019s death. I actually like the ending to this. It is a little unconventional and not at all what I expected but I thought if really fit with who Ig is and what was really important to him. \u201cThere's only room for one hero in this story-and everyone knows the devil doesn't get to be the good guy.\u201d Is this book for everyone? No probably not. Would I read another Joe Hill Book? Yes, I think so. Next time I want to step a little outside my comfort zone. ...more As Horns is basically about a man who wakes up one day and finds that horns have sprouted on his head it is very tempting to start with a very lame joke \u201chere is a guy who wakes up feeling horny - LOL!\u201d. Fortunately I would never stoop to that level (plus it has already been done ). OK, so Ignatius Martin Perrish wakes up with a couple of horns and some supernatural power which most people would rather do without. Horns starts off like some dark and surreal comedy but as the story unfolds the narr As Horns is basically about a man who wakes up one day and finds that horns have sprouted on his head it is very tempting to start with a very lame joke \u201chere is a guy who wakes up feeling horny - LOL!\u201d. Fortunately I would never stoop to that level (plus it has already been done ). OK, so Ignatius Martin Perrish wakes up with a couple of horns and some supernatural power which most people would rather do without. Horns starts off like some dark and surreal comedy but as the story unfolds the narrative tone gradually shifts into a more serious, reflective and tragic territory. Horns is the second novel by Joe Hill , also the second that I have read by him. Just last month I read Heart-Shaped Box and enjoyed it tremendously, I only quickly followed it with Horns because the movie adaptation is coming out and I don\u2019t want to be spoiled by the trailer and other publicity. In my review of Heart-Shaped Box I made a minor complaint to the effect that Hill\u2019s prose style is not as refined as I would like it to be. His father is not exactly known for literary finesse but he can slip into a lyrical mode when it suits him. With this book I think Hill\u2019s writing has become more refined, there are no lyrical passages to speak of but the narrative feels more emotional and there are some nice observations like: \u201cThe truth about music: that it was the third rail of life. You grabbed it to shock yourself out of the dull drag of hours, to feel something, to burn with all the emotions you didn\u2019t get to experience in the ordinary run of school and TV and loading the dishwasher after dinner.\u201d And also some LOL comments like \u201cHe paused, considering the law in Deuteronomy that forbade clothes with mixed fibers. \u201cOnly the devil wants man to have a wide range of lightweight and comfortable styles to choose from,\u201d he murmured at last, trying out a new proverb. \u201cAlthough there may be no forgiveness for polyester. On this one matter, Satan and the Lord are in agreement.\u201d Horns is not fast paced like Heart-Shaped Box but it feels more substantial, more allegorical and meaningful. The origin of the supernatural element is not explained, I imagine as it is not the point of the story. The book is generally a pleasure to read though there is one chapter where the narrative switches to the villain\u2019s point of view that I feel is longer than it needs to be. Incidentally, the villain I speak of is not the devil; I wonder if the story is somehow inspired by The Rolling Stones\u2019 Sympathy For The Devil . There is also a long section of flashback with no supernatural element that reads like a dark coming of age story that features young love, friendship, romance, and bromance. I do not think Horns is a horror novel as none of it is scary to me, there are some disturbing images but nothing that puts me off my lunch. The characterization is quite well done though it seems unrealistic that nobody gives the protagonist the benefit of the doubt for the heinous crime he is accused of. I enjoy the thematic exploration of religion and religiosity, love and revenge, good and evil which makes the novel richer than I expected. So yes, highly recommended. ...more Devil inside The devil inside Every single one of us The devil inside\u2026 (courtesy of INXS and my 8th grade dance memories) Ignatius Perrish wakes up one morning after a blackout night of drinking, only knowing that he\u2019s \u201cdone terrible things,\u201d and looks in the mirror to find that he has grown horns. Show of hands, who doesn\u2019t want to know where that\u2019s going? If you just raised your hand, I say you lie! Once I stepped into the world of Ignatius Martin Perrish, I didn\u2019t want to come out again. My firs Devil inside The devil inside Every single one of us The devil inside\u2026 (courtesy of INXS and my 8th grade dance memories) Ignatius Perrish wakes up one morning after a blackout night of drinking, only knowing that he\u2019s \u201cdone terrible things,\u201d and looks in the mirror to find that he has grown horns. Show of hands, who doesn\u2019t want to know where that\u2019s going? If you just raised your hand, I say you lie! Once I stepped into the world of Ignatius Martin Perrish, I didn\u2019t want to come out again. My first thought was that Joe Hill definitely has his father\u2019s deft storytelling hand but then, after a while I realized that no, he actually doesn\u2019t. He has his own talent and his own voice. This does not feel like a Stephen King book and it's definitely one unique and imaginative story. Joe Hill writes in precisely the manner that most appeals to me. I became entrenched in the story almost immediately and his characters are the biggest part of that. He has that genius ability to connect the reader with his characters on an emotional level and then gradually peel back the layers of truth that define them. I found myself drawn to Ig from the start, only to discover him in a totally new light by the end of the story. And it\u2019s not just the ones you love \u2013 even the ones you love to hate are superbly developed. There is some mystery involved, since Ig was suspected of raping and murdering his girlfriend Merrin but no one was ever convicted of the crime and we don\u2019t know who really did it. I think the question is less \u201cwho killed Merrin\u201d and more \u201cwho is Merrin, who is Lee, who is Terry and who is Ig?\u201d As you gain history and personality from each of them, the truth of what happened starts to take shape. Even when I thought I could see it coming, I was still pummeled by it until the very last page. This book has so much. Story, atmosphere, character development, emotional connections, love, hate, horns, the devil inside us all. And a pitchfork. It also has a pitchfork. Gotta give this one all five. NOTE: I read this as a buddy read with three other GR friends (The Eclectic Club). It was a new experience for me, reading the book by sections and then pausing, and well worth it for the insights and lively discussions we had! If you\u2019re interested in this book, be sure to check out their reviews as well. I\u2019ll update with links as they\u2019re posted. Paul\u2019s review Ron's review Bill's review ...more I'm really glad I picked this up. Horror isn't really my thing, or at least it hasn't been. I've tried several times to read King, but so far he and I haven't clicked very well. I've been hearing a lot about Joe Hill lately because a few of my very good GR friends recently formed a group to talk about his books. They invited me to it and I just though \"eh. thanks but no thanks.\" Then one day I clicked the link to read the summary of Horns and thought \"hey, cool cover!\" Which, of course, being of I'm really glad I picked this up. Horror isn't really my thing, or at least it hasn't been. I've tried several times to read King, but so far he and I haven't clicked very well. I've been hearing a lot about Joe Hill lately because a few of my very good GR friends recently formed a group to talk about his books. They invited me to it and I just though \"eh. thanks but no thanks.\" Then one day I clicked the link to read the summary of Horns and thought \"hey, cool cover!\" Which, of course, being of the \"ooo, shiny and pretty!\" club, made me add it to my TBR. I picked it up yesterday and was immediately (and I mean from the first paragraph) hooked. One of the major plot questions is answered fairly early on, and let me tell you...that didn't slow down the pace of the story at all. Since I knew the who...I wanted to know the why, and I raced through the book to find out. Along the way, I became more intimately aquainted with one chilling dude, and fell in love with Marrin. She was a peach. Ig, I'm sort of iffy about. He was a very interesting character to read about, don't get me wrong. I don't know if I've ever come across such a tortured character. Its just one of the first books I've read where the main character is more of a lesser of two evils then a good guy. It was interesting, I enjoyed the different perspective. This baby has layers. Every time I got a little thrill from figuring something out, he would peel back another layer that would leave me filled with as many questions as ever. He never lets you quit guessing. I'm sure a lot of people were put off by the constant changes of time, place and perspective. Not me. I thought it kept things interesting. I'm a big fan of the way he paced and organized everything. So anyway, even if you don't think you're a horror fan...give this a shot. Anybody who enjoys the unraveling of a complex mystery and a layered story should easily fall in love with this one. ...more I want to start off by saying the copy of this book I read was a signed copy that was a birthday gift from a very dear friend. It's the first signed book I've ever owned, and I was more excited by the fact that STEPHEN KING'S son signed it than that it was signed by the author when I first got it. Not anymore! No one will ever replace King in my heart, but I now love Joe Hill for Joe Hill. It doesn't matter who his parents are. It's morbid, but I've always been sad to think that someday King wil I want to start off by saying the copy of this book I read was a signed copy that was a birthday gift from a very dear friend. It's the first signed book I've ever owned, and I was more excited by the fact that STEPHEN KING'S son signed it than that it was signed by the author when I first got it. Not anymore! No one will ever replace King in my heart, but I now love Joe Hill for Joe Hill. It doesn't matter who his parents are. It's morbid, but I've always been sad to think that someday King will stop writing. I'll still be sad, but I think Joe can carry on in his footsteps beautifully. This is the story of Ig. He awakens on the morning after the first anniversary of his girlfriend's brutal rape and murder, with horns. Yes, horns, growing right out of his head. Sounds silly here, but told in Hill's words, it's not. I could feel the sensitivity of the tips when Hill described it, and what the horns caused...it was heartbreaking. Ig soon finds that when people are exposed to his horns their natural filters are turned off. They say exactly what they think and feel regardless of the reception these thoughts and feelings are likely to receive. Not only that, but Ig seems to be able to give them permission to do what they want. The things they can't, in good concience, allow themselves to do under ordinary circumstances. As long as Ig is around relative strangers, it's not that big of a deal, and actually quite amusing. When the horns power begins to hurt is when Ig encounters his family. I do not want to know what my family is thinking. Ever. Period. Last week, I would have found the idea cool, but after reading this, I feel a bit of a stomach cramp even imagining it. Think of all the little hurts, insults, fights, that occur in families. Examine your own thoughts for a second and then re-imagine someone else you love hearing them. Not so great. For me the book boiled down to a love story. Ig's girlfriend, Merrin, is dead before the first page, but by the end, I was as in love with her as Ig. I was even more in love with them as a couple. If only everyone could find a soulmate like these two were to each other. There is a letter from Merrin to Ig that we get to see through Ig's eyes. I cried. It was one of the most heartbreaking and \"real\" things I have ever read. It wasn't all romancy and sugared up. It was honest and full of love, fear, hope and regret. All the things we feel everyday, but don't have to express, because we have time. Thank God. Ig's best friend Lee is a large part of the story, and I don't want to spoil anything, but King could not have written Lee any better himself. I have to imagine, as he read these parts, him smiling and thinking \"That's my boy.\" Lee will stay with me a long time, and I will be forever on the lookout for real life Lees. Trust me, I will cross the street if I encounter one! ADDITION MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS: OCTOBER 2014 This lost not one drop of its perfection on re-read. It\u2019s an amazing tale and reminds me of a conversation I recently had on GR. A friend and I were \u201cdiscussing\u201d personal shelves. I basically have only three. Read, To Read, and Recommendations. My argument is that too many books defy classification. This book is a perfect example. It\u2019s fiction, on that anyone would agree, but is it also horror, science fiction, fantasy, what?! I wasn't horrified as I read, but the snakes\u2026oh the snakes! No one can really grow horns and turn carmine, right? That\u2019s a bit fantastical. The ability to read thoughts, influence confessions and actions? Science fiction-ish to say the least. How would I shelve this book? Read describes it perfectly. I suppose I could add a shelf called re-reads, which I could immediately fill, but why gum up the works? I commented in my first review of this book that Merrin\u2019s letter was heartbreaking. It was no less so this time around. I refreshed myself because I am really looking forward to this movie on Halloween. I know I could watch it now, but I want the cinema experience. I fervently hope that Merrin\u2019s letter makes it into the movie. Her and Ig\u2019s entire relationship comes into focus with that letter. It\u2019s essential because the novel begins after Merrin\u2019s death and our only glimpses into their \u201cus-ness\u201d are through Ig\u2019s memories which are obviously clouded by grief. Through Merrin\u2019s letter we see that they are both really good people. They love each other unconditionally and want only the best for the other. When we see this through Ig\u2019s memories we think it must be rose-colored hind sight, but her letter shows us they found that elusive, perfect love. Teenage romances are very seldom able to grow into adult romances, but it seems to me theirs would have. There are so many things about this story I had forgotten. Things that upon relay sound a bit silly, which is probably why they didn't stick in my memory, but as I read (a testament to Hill\u2019s talent) seemed plausible and logical. Not silly at all. The snakes I've already mentioned were a large part of Ig\u2019s transformation. There is a female Timber Rattler that Ig seems especially fond of. He refers to the snake as \u201cher\u201d which gives her a bit of personality, although I detest snakes. I was happy when it seemed she would be of use to Ig, sad when things backfired and almost bereft when she died. Over a snake. Seriously. Hill is an amazing story teller, and this is just one example. The treehouse blew me away this time as well. I don\u2019t know if it made more sense to me the first time I read this, but it doesn't matter. It\u2019s a lovely image and the ouroboros of Ig and Merrin using it and also being scared by Ig\u2019s knock was a lovely touch. Hill demonstrates another brilliant use of snakes. If I knew how to insert an image in my review there would be one here. All in all I am even more excited for the movie than I was before. I think Daniel Radcliff will be terrific as Ig. 2015- Don't see the movie without reading the book first. You will NOT want to read the book if you do. *shakes head* APRIL 2015 - Still 5 stars, still one of my favorites and does NOT suffer upon re-read. I wish Hill wrote faster! ...more Ig awakens following a night of drunken debauchery with a throbbing headache. A trip to the bathroom and a glance in the mirror reveals that he has amazingly sprouted a pair of horns. This is coming off a tragic turn of events the previous year in which his girlfriend was found raped and murdered. Unfortunately, all the evidence that could have cleared him had been destroyed. So without a way to prove his innocence, the entire town is convinced he\u2019s the culprit. We soon find out that these horns a Ig awakens following a night of drunken debauchery with a throbbing headache. A trip to the bathroom and a glance in the mirror reveals that he has amazingly sprouted a pair of horns. This is coming off a tragic turn of events the previous year in which his girlfriend was found raped and murdered. Unfortunately, all the evidence that could have cleared him had been destroyed. So without a way to prove his innocence, the entire town is convinced he\u2019s the culprit. We soon find out that these horns are not just decorative; they bring to Ig a strange new ability that compels people to confess their true thoughts and their darkest desires. I\u2019m going to begin this review by saying that the first 10 chapters of this book are simply amazing. Never before had I felt so many emotions for a character \u2013 and that includes the constant anxiety and helplessness I felt while reading The Road . That being said, I\u2019m not in any way stating that what follows them is of lesser quality; the book is quite the experience \u2013 it\u2019s just those first few chapters are agonizing. That fact that Ig is genuinely a nice guy is what rips your heart out. Hearing all the townspeople hold nothing back when verbally tearing him apart can be heartbreaking. Joe Hill refuses to give you any time to digest each tirade as the one that follows turns out to be far worse than the last. Last year, I read a book entitled A Ticket to the Boneyard by Lawrence Block and at the time, I was convinced I had discovered the most frightening literary villain yet. In Joe Hill\u2019s Horns , I was introduced to a character so disgusting that he gives James Leo Motley a run for his money - which I didn't think was possible. That's about all I'm prepared to say on that, you'll just have to read it. While it's not always possible, there are some situations out there where people have shown that talent can sometimes be inherited. I can't speak for Hill's other work (I hope to change that soon) but with Horns, he at least shows that he has the talent to be a great storyteller like his father. I sincerely loved this book. It\u2019s easily an early contender for favourite of 2012 (yes, I know it\u2019s only January but I was pretty impressed) and has earned a spot on my coveted favorites shelf. ...more Here\u2019s the bad news: Horns now completes my reading of all five Joe Hill books (not including the Locke & Key graphic series). And really, knowing that is the worst of this review. That and the fact that I am sad it\u2019s over. By the way, Horns is the third book released by Hill. Figures that I would finish in the middle (not that it\u2019s necessary to read his books in any particular order). Why did I read this book last? Honestly, the description didn\u2019t interest me in 2010: \u201dHorns growing from so Here\u2019s the bad news: Horns now completes my reading of all five Joe Hill books (not including the Locke & Key graphic series). And really, knowing that is the worst of this review. That and the fact that I am sad it\u2019s over. By the way, Horns is the third book released by Hill. Figures that I would finish in the middle (not that it\u2019s necessary to read his books in any particular order). Why did I read this book last? Honestly, the description didn\u2019t interest me in 2010: \u201dHorns growing from some dudes head. I\u2019ll pass.\u201d I was right about one thing. Horns do sprout one morning from the head of a man named Ignatius Martin Perrish. Ig for short. I was so wrong about the rest. The story is first-rate. Why was it good? Joe Hill\u2019s writing for one thing. The guy makes me believe in the possibility of horns on a man\u2019s noggin; that these can in turn cause others to spill their deepest, most hateful thoughts; that the truly evil person is not easily identified by his outward appearance; that sometimes the guy with the horns is the better man (at least for a time). There are a few other things to mention. The book was far more than a tale of horror, or one solely meant to scare its reader after the lights are out. It is a love story, a mystery and a tragedy. I continually sought to guess the outcome of the succeeding chapters, but for the most part my guesses proved to be wrong. (Note: If you decide to read, I guarantee you will want to know the answers. The wait makes these moments special). While I was busy guessing, I had grown to like Ig very much. He\u2019s one of the better protagonists I\u2019ve met this year. Ig is this mix of strength with frailty, a guy with emotions and flaws, take the good with the bad. So what, if anything, didn\u2019t I like? I am bothered by a line that reads, \u201cI don\u2019t believe in a merciful God\u201d. But these are characters speaking in a book of fiction, so it\u2019s hardly something that will bend me out of shape. I just throw it out there for fair warning. The Final good news: Buddy reads are an awesome way to experience this book. My partners for this endeavor: Liz, Bill & Paul. Check out their reviews here: Liz\u2019s\u2019s review , Bill\u2019s review , Paul\u2019s review . If you like Joe Hill, then don\u2019t be like me. Don\u2019t wait to read this book later. Learn from my mistake. ...more Ok before Kandice starts bleeding, here I go....Horns is one of those books that starts out catching your interest right away, grabs on and doesn't let go until it gets you to the end. It's entertaining, exciting but also rather deep and thoughtful. When I was a teenager, for whatever reason, I tried to read Why Bad Things Happen to Good People and thought it was too philisophical and boring (I was a teenager). Horns examines the same topic but makes it fun. The story starts out more bizarro tha Ok before Kandice starts bleeding, here I go....Horns is one of those books that starts out catching your interest right away, grabs on and doesn't let go until it gets you to the end. It's entertaining, exciting but also rather deep and thoughtful. When I was a teenager, for whatever reason, I tried to read Why Bad Things Happen to Good People and thought it was too philisophical and boring (I was a teenager). Horns examines the same topic but makes it fun. The story starts out more bizarro than horror, with Ig Perrish waking up after a crazy night of drinking to realize that he has grown devil horns. More serious side effect: People want to randomly tell him their darkest secrets. These secrets start out as a running gag with a receptionist at a clinic expressing her want to scream at an a mother with an unruly child and Ig's roommate/friend with benefits confession that she really wants to eat a whole box of donuts and that she \"went down on\" a mutual friend, Lee drunkenly and publicly in a parking lot. The secrets get darker as the story barrels along. Ig's girfriend, whom, he loved more than anything in the world, was raped and murdered a year before an everyone, including many members of his family think he is responsible. The most heartbreaking scene in this book is when he goes to visit his family and they all dump on him. It would make me run and hide too. I thought the pacing of this book, especially when Hill jumps into flashbacks of Ig meeting Merrin (his girlfriend) was a little uneven but the characters are fully developed and I felt like no character is truly good or evil but lots of varying shades of gray. Even the villian of the story, you feel kinda sorry for as a child but that empathy is manipulated. I love the way Hill can turn a phrase and make me laugh out loud and then a few pages later freak me out by building tension. This is a really awesome second novel from an author that is incredibly talented and worth following just to see what he might do next. ...more I'm not sure where to start with this book or exactly how to rate it. On one hand I was hooked right when I started reading it because it was so different, and then it did this 'go back in time thing', and then it snapped back into present and it made it a little confusing and hard to focus at times. I also felt that the storyline was a bit weak, it felt like it would have been so much more. I loved the ideas behind it, it just did not seem to play out well. I kept thinking ok so it is just a sl I'm not sure where to start with this book or exactly how to rate it. On one hand I was hooked right when I started reading it because it was so different, and then it did this 'go back in time thing', and then it snapped back into present and it made it a little confusing and hard to focus at times. I also felt that the storyline was a bit weak, it felt like it would have been so much more. I loved the ideas behind it, it just did not seem to play out well. I kept thinking ok so it is just a slow starter and it will get better the further I go. It pretty much just carried on the same way throughout the whole story. I just was not wowed at all. I don't think the characters were developed as well as they could have been. Iggy seemed kinda weak to me and unexplained, I mean where did horns come from? I know it said it was because he was without Merrin in his life, but come on, isn't that a little weak? I kept asking why? So then I was thinking he was gonna go crazy on his family and wipe them all out, and that did not come either. Iggy himself was a somewhat weak character, even when he had his new and improved life as a devil. I was expecting so much more of him. Merrin we really did not get the whole feel of because she had pretty short life in the book. It seemed that the bad guys had the upper hand during most of this story. And they seemed to have the better character development as well. It was also hard to know who was good and who wasn't. They all seemed to change a lot once Iggy had his horns. The premise of the book was great, and I was really excited to read it. I just feel it was not executed as well as it could have been. It was an ok book, but I was not blown away by it. ...more", "Title": "Horns"},
