{"Comments": "FINALLY, A VAMPIRE BOOK THAT'S NOT ABOUT SEXUALLY FRUSTRATED NECROPHILIAC TEENAGERS! I'M NOW ONE HAPPY MOTHERFUCKER. I've been a Wisconsinite my whole life.<---F> I know cheese</---F>. That said, I read 131 pages of this before I put it down. After all, cheese can be fun. However, ALVH was more your store-brand Velvetta than your aged sharp cheddar. I kept reading for a couple of reasons. 1) It was SO much better than Pride & Prejudice & Zombies 2) The concept was intriguing 3) Much like a plate of cheesy nachos, one often keeps going back for more when they really should stop I stopped reading because - 1) The writing was I've been a Wisconsinite my whole life. I know cheese. That said, I read 131 pages of this before I put it down. After all, cheese can be fun. However, ALVH was more your store-brand Velvetta than your aged sharp cheddar. I kept reading for a couple of reasons. 1) It was SO much better than Pride & Prejudice & Zombies 2) The concept was intriguing 3) Much like a plate of cheesy nachos, one often keeps going back for more when they really should stop I stopped reading because - 1) The writing was plastic in parts and didn't fit the absurdity of the concept 2) The illustrations were heinous 3) The historical language was less than historical 4) The author acknowledged Wikipedia as being an important part of his research 5) I felt so many authors could have done it better It's campy, and it's fun - in the way that things are fun if you're stuck in an airport,<---M> on a bus</---M>, or on the subway with no other source of entertainment. In the end, though, I realized I just hope for more in my cheese. ...more I came across this book at Barnes & Noble while I was at Union Station in DC and had to call a friend who has encyclopedic knowledge of books of this genre. I was pulled in immediately by the cover and decided that I was going to buy it on my way home. How could you not want to read a book about someone like Lincoln, who seemingly faced tragedy upon tragedy in his personal life only to be doubly tested in his political life. The book is built on the premise that Lincoln kept a series of secret I came across this book at Barnes & Noble while I was at Union Station in DC and had to call a friend who has encyclopedic knowledge of books of this genre. I was pulled in immediately by the cover and decided that I was going to buy it on my way home. How could you not want to read a book about someone like Lincoln, who seemingly faced tragedy upon tragedy in his personal life only to be doubly tested in his political life. The book is built on the premise that Lincoln kept a series of secret journals over his lifetime chronicling his life-long battle against the dark forces of vampires, including their role in the Civil War and the perpetuation of slavery. While the premise is, of course, ludicrous, I found I just couldn't put the book down. As if Lincoln needed another dimension added to his heroic and tragic life. Honest Abe is helped during his vampire hunt by the mysterious Henry, a vampire himself. Sprinkled throughout the book are clever illustrations and \"actual\" photos. Oh, Photoshop. Anyway,if you like history mixed with a good dose of fantasy, you should pick this up. Also, check out this silly promotional video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X58RPS... ...more \"Without death,\" he answered, \"life is meaningless. It is a story that can never be told. A song that can never be sung. For how would one finish it?\" <---C>Abraham Lincoln</---C>: Vampire Hunter is an impeccable example of how history can be made interesting with strategy. Even though I'm vastly interested in history, reading huge textbooks or listening to commentaries still makes me sleepy. I've read about how Lincoln died many times now, from different sources, but I never understood why it happened. I \"Without death,\" he answered, \"life is meaningless. It is a story that can never be told. A song that can never be sung. For how would one finish it?\" <+++>Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter</+++> is an impeccable example of how history can be made interesting with strategy. Even though I'm vastly interested in history, reading huge textbooks or listening to commentaries still makes me sleepy. I've read about how Lincoln died many times now, from different sources, but I never understood why it happened. I also never really knew much about him other than he was a former U.S President. I'm sure that if I grew up in the U.S then I would have vast knowledge of him, but sadly I didn't. I heard that this book was heavily researched on, so I'm guessing I now have at least a brief introduction on who Lincoln was as a President. Events were obviously coated with the vampire-fantasy gimmick, but I still see some as real events that happened. Before reading this I already knew I was going to enjoy it. The premise was straightforward and it caught my interest immediately. Despite numerous 1-2 star reviews, I went ahead and decided to read this book anyway. Such a great decision I made. The writing was near perfect. The way that the author alternated from his narration and Lincoln's journal was very interesting. If it was an attempt to maintain the reader's interest, then he clearly succeeded, at least with me. I'm clearly happy with the historical vibe of the novel, and the way that it didn't venture out of it. Some other authors would mistakenly write about things that are not present in the time that they're trying to portray. I didn't see anything wrong with SG-S' writing, so I'm clearly satisfied. The plot was in parr with the premise. It showed Lincoln's life, as a vampire hunter. A parody but life lessons were still present. That's the great thing about reading fiction, not only does it interest you, but it also teaches. If I were to quote all of the things I thought were life lessons then this review wouldn't be a review, but rather a short preview. All you need to know is that it was really amazing. Here's one of my favorites though: \"\"Judge us not equally, Abraham, We may all deserve hell, but some of us deserve it sooner than others.\" The characters were all interesting and genuine. Genuine in a way that they weren't pretentious. The author also didn't make them seem unbelievable. Another reason why I like the writing of this novel. Also the way that Abe developed was really good. It was very well incorporated to the vampire aspect of the novel. No cheesy vampire romance here. The vampires are violent and merciless. I would also like it mention that the author was rather harsh with the outcome of some characters. I'm not sure if they really happened, but the harshness managed to interest me too. I don't have a faint heart, and the darker the novel the better, for me. I can't wait the read the sequel of this. I heard though that it can be read as a standalone, considering it's Henry's point of view, and that makes me even more excited. I really liked Henry here, so reading about the what he decides to do after (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [ Abraham's death (hide spoiler) ] is clearly exciting. I'm glad the author made a sequel about him. 5/5 stars. This is my first read of <---A>Seth Grahame-Smith</---A>, and clearly it's not going to be my last. He managed to exceed my expectations. I don't give out 5 stars that often, but this novel clearly deserves it. Highly recommended. Will probably read this again in the future. ...more The Abenator! Very entertaining, very original, and lots of fun. As hilariously irreverent as Pride and Prejudice and Zombies , yet like that mash-up Grahame-Smith has woven his adaptions seamlessly into the original and his interjected dialogue sounds correct. Especially noteworthy was the infusion of historical personages into his narrative, some vampires and some not. Clearly well researched, this is a great read for Abe fans and vampire aficionados alike. If it's your tendency to roll your eyes at literary mashups such as Jane Slayer and Android Karenina, then I bet they rolled back into your head when what seems to be an affront to the greatest president in American history was published: <+++>Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter</+++>. Mine certainly did, and I'm a fan of Lincoln and vampires. However, Seth Grahame-Smith, who also wrote Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, did extensive research into Lincoln and the politics and culture of Lincoln's time and he en If it's your tendency to roll your eyes at literary mashups such as Jane Slayer and Android Karenina, then I bet they rolled back into your head when what seems to be an affront to the greatest president in American history was published: Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter. Mine certainly did, and I'm a fan of Lincoln and vampires. However, Seth Grahame-Smith, who also wrote Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, did extensive research into Lincoln and the politics and culture of Lincoln's time and he entertainingly meshes everything we know about Honest Abe, his family and peers, his road to the presidency, and the Civil War with the rise and fall of vampires in America. If you want to know why \"CRO\" was carved into a tree at the Roanoke settlement, how the Confederacy really won the First Battle of Bull Run, or simply why Lincoln favored that long, black coat, read the book and get educated in American history. ...more Brilliant premise, but oh-so-clunky in execution. This mish-mash of historical texts and vampire hunting action chugged along dutifully to the end, much like a dry textbook on U.S. History. With vampires. I think my biggest gripe is that we are told again and again how great a man Lincoln is, how he could win over a crowd with his electrifying oratory, and yet we aren't shown it. I wanted to feel it, with examples, not the author's assurances. I also felt like Lincoln was kept at a distance from Brilliant premise, but oh-so-clunky in execution. This mish-mash of historical texts and vampire hunting action chugged along dutifully to the end, much like a dry textbook on U.S. History. With vampires. I think my biggest gripe is that we are told again and again how great a man Lincoln is, how he could win over a crowd with his electrifying oratory, and yet we aren't shown it. I wanted to feel it, with examples, not the author's assurances. I also felt like Lincoln was kept at a distance from the reader emotionally. Yes, we are told how much the deaths of his sons devastated him, but we don't see it. And because the book tries to cover Lincoln's entire life, we rush from point to point, so abruptly Lincoln is older and no longer fighting vampires, without the story establishing how we got there with details and Lincoln feeling stiff and sore in the mornings. Or something, you know what I mean. Which is a shame, because Abraham Lincoln had a very interesting life in its own right, even without vampires. I wish the author had given up the mock textbook approach, and just written it straight, somehow. I actually liked the intro, where the premise is that author is given some old notebooks which turn out to be Abraham Lincoln's secret vampire hunter journals. Sadly, we never get back to that, but I think maybe Seth Grahame-Smith is now a vampire, too. Does anyone know if he's taken to wearing sunglasses? P.S. The altered photos are hokey. ...more Slowly, I'm getting my blog reviews up here. Here's one from 2 years ago almost to the day. It's always nice to be a couple years ahead of the curve. :D Like I said before, I'm not immune to peer pressure. The opposite is in fact true. I also realize this is probably getting as annoying as hearing about how busy people are and excuses as to why there's no posting. I'll attempt to refrain (doh!). Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter tells the story found in Lincoln's secret journal describing his alterna Slowly, I'm getting my blog reviews up here. Here's one from 2 years ago almost to the day. It's always nice to be a couple years ahead of the curve. :D Like I said before, I'm not immune to peer pressure. The opposite is in fact true. I also realize this is probably getting as annoying as hearing about how busy people are and excuses as to why there's no posting. I'll attempt to refrain (doh!). Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter tells the story found in Lincoln's secret journal describing his alternate life as a vampire hunter. Personally, anything titled \"Vampire Hunter\" should really be more entertaining than this. I don't know if by reading Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter I would really be able to have an opinion of the rest of the monster mash-ups as Vampire Hunter is based on Lincoln's life and not another book like Pride and Prejudice. I assume as much though and as such, you'll probably not see many more mash-ups reviews. I have to admit I wasn't converted. First, I wasn't a huge fan of the narrator. The voices he used were just all off for me. I have a certain voice for Abraham Lincoln in my head (probably thanks to School House Rock or something) and this did not do it for me. Next, I have to say the writing was done well and while I was impressed with the facts of Lincoln's actual life that are woven into the story (I did confirm a few), it was hard to take someone telling the actual thoughts and motivations behind Lincoln's actions especially regarding vampires. As mentioned earlier, I guess I expected more action and adventure, less plodding along and talking. Now that I think about it, the \"Abraham Lincoln\" part really should have off-set the rest of the title enough. Don't get me wrong, I greatly respect President Lincoln and I think that may have been one of the reasons I had a hard time with the book as well. One of the perks of the audiobook was that there's an interview with Seth Grahame-Smith at the end of the telling of the story and that was pretty interesting. He tells how the two books he saw everywhere for the last while have been Abraham Lincoln biographies and Twilight. Thus we have Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter. Also interesting to note Grahame-Smith has a MTV show in the makes. EDIT: It used to be TV show, now obviously it's been made into a movie, which let's be honest, I have to see. You can't read a book no matter how much you liked it or didn't like it and not see the movie. It's in the rules, I'll have to show it to you some day. When Should You Read/Listen to Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter? I can probably mostly compare Vampire Hunter to The Historian by Elizabeth Kostova. It's similar slow-moving vampire hunting, so if you liked the latter, you'll probably enjoy the former. Although I would not wish The Historian on my worst enemy. Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter was a step up from that to be fair. 2 out of 5 Stars (It was okay) ...more So Abraham Lincoln was the great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great grandfather of Sam and Dean Winchester. Kidding. Okay so this book was chopped into 3 parts. The first chapter is The Boy. it's basically about Abraham and how he was during childhood days. Part 1 shows where Abraham started and how it - him being a vampire hunter-all started. The 2nd part is actually the most fictitious part since it is the part where Abe is very much active in vampire hunting. 3rd chapt So Abraham Lincoln was the great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great grandfather of Sam and Dean Winchester. Kidding. Okay so this book was chopped into 3 parts. The first chapter is The Boy. it's basically about Abraham and how he was during childhood days. Part 1 shows where Abraham started and how it - him being a vampire hunter-all started. The 2nd part is actually the most fictitious part since it is the part where Abe is very much active in vampire hunting. 3rd chapter, shows Abe's struggle through politics and his fight for presidency. The Civil war and assassination was also included in the 3rd chapter. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The book was brilliant, It is a good mash uop of history and fiction. I loved the fact that when reading the book I could actually go in and out of history and fantasy. I actually bought this book because of the title-and yes, of the cover as well. It got me intrigued and interested. And I know it says VAMPIRE HUNTER but trust me, this isn't like the other vampire books out there. This book doesn't have shiny sparkling vampires in it. It also has a love story, a romance, but not the kind which sixteen year old teenage girls would be drooling for. So this book isn't really for teens who only reads YA. This book is a lot serious, way darker and grittier. You would actually like this book if : a.) you won't get offended by the fact that the author bended the history and mashed up fiction with it. b.) you're looking for gruesome graphic violence The book was pretty informative as well. It's got footnotes and pictures with captions, explaining stuffs from the story. But you still need a little bit of background knowledge about Abraham Lincoln before reading this. Otherwise you won't get the humor of the story. You won't be able to appreciate the beauty of the mash up. It's a must read. :) ...more I usually don't read biographies or vampire lit. My boyfriend's mom passed along \"Abraham Lincoln\" Vampire Hunter,\" and I politely accepted. I remember rolling my eyes the first time I spied the flashy cover in the Minneapolis airport. Some weeks prior in a pitifully sparse lit section of Borders I realized the tremendous volume of vampire-themed novels. Author Seth Grahame-Smith is not alone. Authors are courting vampires like David Letterman and production assistants. I've never opened a novel I usually don't read biographies or vampire lit. My boyfriend's mom passed along \"Abraham Lincoln\" Vampire Hunter,\" and I politely accepted. I remember rolling my eyes the first time I spied the flashy cover in the Minneapolis airport. Some weeks prior in a pitifully sparse lit section of Borders I realized the tremendous volume of vampire-themed novels. Author Seth Grahame-Smith is not alone. Authors are courting vampires like David Letterman and production assistants. I've never opened a novel from the Twilight Series, but something about the staid idolatry of our 16th president and his vast significance over Robert Pattinson made me consider giving this vampire novel a whirl. To put it concisely, it was a fun read! My complaint is that although Grahame-Smith easily works Lincoln's personal life into the tragic and grutesque lore of vampires (and/or vice-versa), identifying vampires as the pundits behind the Civil War, or rather, slavery, is perhaps not a part of history to be revising. Conspiracy theorists weave grandiose hypotheses to alieviate the chaos and powerlessness of human beings in our sometimes irrational world. Horror novels and films may provide us with a completely reversed comfort, suggesting that man cannot be responsible, cannot accomplish almost unimaginable inhuman atrocities. In fact, we know man certainly can. Slavery exemplifying the evil of which humans, not mythical beings, are capable. ...more Here I go again...braving the waters of controversy in a skiff of electrons.... I know a lot of you like this book, some of you like it immensely. It caught my eye because (let's face it) this is less than usual subject matter. I suppose I expected the topic to be dealt with in a somewhat tongue and cheek manner. I'm not familiar Seth Grahame-Smith's other work, none of the others caught my interest. I'm not, after all a Jane Austen fan and I am relatively conservative, so his prior works just d Here I go again...braving the waters of controversy in a skiff of electrons.... I know a lot of you like this book, some of you like it immensely. It caught my eye because (let's face it) this is less than usual subject matter. I suppose I expected the topic to be dealt with in a somewhat tongue and cheek manner. I'm not familiar Seth Grahame-Smith's other work, none of the others caught my interest. I'm not, after all a Jane Austen fan and I am relatively conservative, so his prior works just didn't \"grab me\". I suppose there are several things that rubbed me the wrong way about this novel, but the biggest problem I had/have with it goes back to its approach and the things it attempts to portray or more accurately the way it portrays them. As I said, I was expecting a tongue in cheek approach to the subject. Instead the author approached the story in a straight, deadpan, alternate history way. In my opinion the book ends up not only taking an axe to vampires, but also to Abraham Lincoln's reputation. I noticed another reviewer who pointed out that in the novel the writer manipulated events in President Lincoln's life so that each act, action, and decision was somehow provoked by vampires...even his rejection of slavery (the slaves that were trying to steal the flat boat were not just fleeing slavery, they were fleeing for their lives from the vampiric overseer. Personally I'd guess that in the case of most humans slavery itself would be enough to flee.) He also points out in one \"episode\" that \"Abe was not as honest\" as he has been portrayed. We at times, get a portrait in this book of an Abraham Lincoln who apparently buys into a \"the ends justify the means\" attitude and that repels me. There are other smaller gripes that have to do with literary flourishes and warped folklore, but it seems everyone today who writes about vampires \"rewrites\" the lore. Not something I particularly like, but neither is it something I'd drop a rating to 1 star for. I came to a place here that I just didn't want to finish the book. There were some predictable parts, some annoying parts, but mostly I didn't like the picture I was seeing in the rewritten/recreated 16th president. President Lincoln is not a fictional character to be \"reimagined\". Usually in historical fiction or alternate history the \"main players\" are respected and unless it's actually a \"hit piece\" (which I have seen) there is an attempt to write true to character. If that is present here, Mr. Grahame-Smith sees an Abraham Lincoln that I don't recognize. Maybe had the book been more of a \"lighthearted\" read, not taking itself so seriously, but as it is I not only don't care for it...I don't care to finish it. ...more Alt-history by the creator of that trend of adding monsters to fiction, starting with Pride and Prejudice and Zombies , which quite frankly, I rifled through once, saw the bits that had been added, winced at how they'd been added, and put it gently back down and backed away. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook Seth Grahame-Smith's Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter had a prominent display place in my local library, which is how I picked it up but still haven't read Pride and Prejudice and Zombies . It's a ripping yarn but the way Grahame-Smith has vampires involved in slavery and the Civil War shifts real historical figures' motives in ways I dislike and can't approve of. I felt that it cheapened things. I hated the ending, seeing it as out of character for Lincoln as he's presented in this book as well a Seth Grahame-Smith's Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter had a prominent display place in my local library, which is how I picked it up but still haven't read Pride and Prejudice and Zombies . It's a ripping yarn but the way Grahame-Smith has vampires involved in slavery and the Civil War shifts real historical figures' motives in ways I dislike and can't approve of. I felt that it cheapened things. I hated the ending, seeing it as out of character for Lincoln as he's presented in this book as well as cheesy, and the framing device that opens the book felt superfluous and incomplete and didn't really work for me. In the acknowledgments the author himself admits that Lincoln lived a life that \"hardly needed vampires to make it incredible,\" and I left the book firmly agreeing with that sentiment. He should have left well enough alone. I can't recommend Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter . It left a bad taste in my mouth. ...more When I first saw the title a while back, I had first thought it would be some ridiculously campy, cheesy vampire book. But then the movie previews caught my attention and made me reconsider. And since I've decided to watch the movie, I of course, had to first read the book. AL:VH was so much more than I was expecting; rich in detail, the story quickly drew me in and I was hooked. The story was interspersed with newspaper articles and speeches that I assume are actual historical fact that gave it When I first saw the title a while back, I had first thought it would be some ridiculously campy, cheesy vampire book. But then the movie previews caught my attention and made me reconsider. And since I've decided to watch the movie, I of course, had to first read the book. AL:VH was so much more than I was expecting; rich in detail, the story quickly drew me in and I was hooked. The story was interspersed with newspaper articles and speeches that I assume are actual historical fact that gave it all a bit of frightening plausibility and also had me pausing the audio to google random details to learn a little more. While I loved Abe's character, the vampires were one of the biggest surprises for me. These are not your run of the mill, bite your neck and drink your blood kind of vamps. These were some of the most frighteningly vicious vampires I've encountered in fiction. This book was certainly a lot more bloody and violent than I anticipated, even after watching the movie previews. Also, the authors ideas of how slavery was affected by vampires was horrifyingly brilliant, the stuff of nightmares, but effective. There were areas where it got a bit slow and tedious but never to the point where I was ready to walk away from the book. I'm glad I decided to read this and I'm really looking forward to the movie and hope that it lives up to the book. ...more I loved this book and I love the way Grahame-Smith combines historical fact with vampire fiction utterly seamlessly creating a highly 'plausible' and very believable version of Abraham Lincoln's life and death. The writing is vivid and descriptive and takes the reader into the heart of the action and into the mind of one of America's greatest President's as he tackles the forces of Slavery and the Undead all in one foul swoop. A brilliant read that is a vast relief from the recent trend of soppy I loved this book and I love the way Grahame-Smith combines historical fact with vampire fiction utterly seamlessly creating a highly 'plausible' and very believable version of Abraham Lincoln's life and death. The writing is vivid and descriptive and takes the reader into the heart of the action and into the mind of one of America's greatest President's as he tackles the forces of Slavery and the Undead all in one foul swoop. A brilliant read that is a vast relief from the recent trend of soppy, adolescent VAmpire romance that has dominated the genre of late. This is a return to the power and blood hungry vampires of old, and it is a return of epic proportions. I think the fact that I read it in the space of five hours is testiment to how much I enjoyed it and how thoroughly engrossing it is. ...more Okay. Having seen the title, how can I not read this? It's too wonderfully weird and silly not to read. And what makes it work for me even more is...having seen a very serious catalog of American antiques (they specialise in Civil War-era items) that listed as from St.-Louis 1856 a boxed (patented! Dr. Someone's!) anti-vampire kit (two pistols, bullet mould, silver bullets, ivory cross that converts to a stake, vial of holy water, small mirror) for approx. $2500...I have to read this book. It se Okay. Having seen the title, how can I not read this? It's too wonderfully weird and silly not to read. And what makes it work for me even more is...having seen a very serious catalog of American antiques (they specialise in Civil War-era items) that listed as from St.-Louis 1856 a boxed (patented! Dr. Someone's!) anti-vampire kit (two pistols, bullet mould, silver bullets, ivory cross that converts to a stake, vial of holy water, small mirror) for approx. $2500...I have to read this book. It seems that well, St. Louis at least had a vampire problem in the 1850s, so why not Illinois? I think James McPherson and I both have our suspicions about Stephen Douglas... (And the South Carolina secessionist leaders were all-too-clearly vampires...) ...more This is by the author of Pride and Prejudice and Zombies and I must confess I found that the joke \u2013 the combination of elegant manners and bloody mayhem \u2013 did not last nearly the length of the novel. However, Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter is surprisingly good. Apart from being an excellent and quite painless way of learning a good deal about American history (\u2018how many British people know that Lincoln\u2019s assassination was only part of a wider plot which was to have included the death of the Sec This is by the author of Pride and Prejudice and Zombies and I must confess I found that the joke \u2013 the combination of elegant manners and bloody mayhem \u2013 did not last nearly the length of the novel. However, Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter is surprisingly good. Apart from being an excellent and quite painless way of learning a good deal about American history (\u2018how many British people know that Lincoln\u2019s assassination was only part of a wider plot which was to have included the death of the Secretary of State, the Vice President and General Grant?\u2019 I read recently in a newspaper article, and thanks to Seth Grahame-Smith I was able to reply smugly \u201cWell, I do.\u201d Abraham Lincoln makes an excellent vampire hunter. I found myself almost believing that he really did stride through the woods dealing sharp justice to vampires with his trusty axe. The author also makes the serious point that vampirism can only really thrive in a slave-state where it is acceptable to treat human beings as live-stock. And I found the end quite touching when Lincoln, thanks to an intervention which readers might well have been expecting, is able to stand in front of the Lincoln Memorial and listen \u201cintently, proudly\u201d to Martin Luther King\u2019s great speech \u201cFree at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!\u201d ...more Abraham Lincoln is one of my personal heroes. I enjoy reading about his life and times, the Civil War and the biographies or diaries of people who lived through it. I also enjoy dark urban fantasy; urban romance just pisses me off. I should like this, right? Right? Actually, I am pretty ambivalent about it. I enjoyed the story. It could have been any main character and the story of how vampires influenced the Civil War could have been an interesting premise. The life of the vampire hunter during t Abraham Lincoln is one of my personal heroes. I enjoy reading about his life and times, the Civil War and the biographies or diaries of people who lived through it. I also enjoy dark urban fantasy; urban romance just pisses me off. I should like this, right? Right? Actually, I am pretty ambivalent about it. I enjoyed the story. It could have been any main character and the story of how vampires influenced the Civil War could have been an interesting premise. The life of the vampire hunter during the Civil War could have been a good story all on its own. But, by adding Abraham Lincoln as the main character...well, it killed the story for me. I see that there was research done, I understand that the facts were 'bent' for the sake of the story and I am completely able to 'suspend disbelief' when needed. But, in this case...it was just not possible. I am sure this author could probably write an original story, but he didn't do it here. He took an existing story (the amazing life of Abe Lincoln) and wrote vampires into it, throwing a mesh of vampire details over an already existing biography. It was basic research of Lincoln rewritten with simple mythology of vampires and put into an unimaginative 'journal' format. I was entertained, but not really interested or 'buying in'. ...more A few years ago, when all the books of this ilk first began to be released, I swore I would not give in to the fad. At first this was rather easy, because I am not the sort of person who is generally inclined to read Pride and Prejudice either with or without zombies. I have far too much sense to give in to Sense & Sensibility & Sea Monsters , or so I liked to think. At the very least, there were already far too many books to read on my list for me to add on some cheap Victorian retreads. A few years ago, when all the books of this ilk first began to be released, I swore I would not give in to the fad. At first this was rather easy, because I am not the sort of person who is generally inclined to read Pride and Prejudice either with or without zombies. I have far too much sense to give in to Sense & Sensibility & Sea Monsters , or so I liked to think. At the very least, there were already far too many books to read on my list for me to add on some cheap Victorian retreads. Oh the follies of youth. Fast forward a few years to yesterday, when I found myself wandering through the Hudson Books at an airport looking for something to read and spotted this little gem of alternate-history. Knowing that the film is due this summer, and being a bit of a pushover when it comes to vamp-fiction, my resolve folded like a reed in a windstorm and it simply had to come home with me. There I sat, wedged between a drunken suburban soccer mom on her first solo holiday in two decades and a business traveler who really should have bought a spare seat for his extra girth, plunged deep into the American frontier of the early 19th Century. Presented as the lost journals of Abraham Lincoln, this book could easily have been an anachronistic mess. Fortunately, Seth Grahame-Smith appears to have done a fair amount of research on the subject and does an exemplary job of mixing the actual details of Lincoln's life with his corrupt and evil vampires. Having lost his mother to a vampire in his youth, Lincoln swears revenge against the undead, hunting and decapitating them throughout the Mid-West wilderness with the help of an ever-changing cast of sidekicks and the training of a guilt-ridden vampire named Henry. Eventually his passion for freedom and his masterful skills at oration lead him into politics and a head-on conflict with the Southern slave states and their shadowy puppet masters, a cabal of blood-suckers heavily invested in the free blood that slaves provide. While I often found myself wishing for more descriptions of the actual vampire hunting, rather than the terse debriefs that Lincoln offered in his journal, Grahame-Smith has done a bang-up job in bringing to life a Lincoln not many readers outside the historical community are familiar with. He was haunted by the death of his mother his whole life and when he began to lose his children to vaguely understood illnesses both he and his wife, Mary Todd Lincoln, were struck by a depression that would seem more fitting in an early 90s rock star living in Seattle battling a heroin problem. He retreated from his family into his work of keeping the Union whole, while Mary Todd began consulting an ever-changing assortment of psychics and charlatans to try to contact the ghosts of their beloved children. This was an enormously fast read- I started it on the runway in Chicago and by the time my layover in Denver was coming to an end five hours later I was searching my bag for another book to keep me distracted from the endless joys of riding in a metal tin with my fellow humans. I'm still hesitant to buy into the overall idea of these historic monster novels, but as a stand alone lark one could do a lot worse than Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter and I know I will likely see the film when it's released a little later this summer. ...more \"Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter\" is one of those books that's going to be sold by the cover and title alone. The cover, featuring the visage of Honest Abe with a blood stains on his famous suit and a bloody axe in one hand is enough to make you take pause, open the cover and wonder what kind of absurdest joys lie within the books pages. Seth Grahame-Smith, who found ways to skewer the works of Jane Austen by inserting zombies, has an interesting new way to skewer the biography--by inserting vamp \"Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter\" is one of those books that's going to be sold by the cover and title alone. The cover, featuring the visage of Honest Abe with a blood stains on his famous suit and a bloody axe in one hand is enough to make you take pause, open the cover and wonder what kind of absurdest joys lie within the books pages. Seth Grahame-Smith, who found ways to skewer the works of Jane Austen by inserting zombies, has an interesting new way to skewer the biography--by inserting vampires. According to the introduction, Grahame-Smith is presented with a series of journals written by the sixteenth president that tell the real story of his life. Apparently, the history books missed that Abraham Lincoln was more than just a statesman, he was an avowed killer of the blood-sucking fiends known as vampires. The book postulates that the reason so many of Abe's close friends and family passed away under such mysterious circumstances was due to vampire attack. It's an interesting premise and one that works fairly well in the early going as we see Abe swear to destroy every vampire in America after finding out his mother died due to a vampire attack, but the premise itself wears a bit thin by the second half of the novel. Grahame-Smith really stretches things when Lincoln discovers a link between vampires and slavery, leading to the reason that Lincoln decides that slavery must be eradicated. Some of the views of the Southern states in the later stages of the book are a bit too much and over the top with Grahame-Smith choosing to ignore certain things in order to go for the humorous effect. As a satire of biographies, the novel works fairly well, inserting reflections by Lincoln's journals with prose created in the biographical style of Grahame-Smith. But while the concept is interesting, I couldn't help but feel the premise became a bit SNL-skit-like the longer the pages kept turning--nice idea but probably a bit too drawn out and rapidly losing its wit the longer things went along. ...more First of all, how can you pass up a book with such an intriguing front and back cover? I found this book at the library in the new books section. I had read Pride and Prejudice and Zombies and knew that I was in for some fun reading. I had heard about ALVH and I was curious as to how an author could combine actual historical facts and fiction together. Well, it works with this book. Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter reads like a historical document. It combines a biography of Abraham Lincoln's life, First of all, how can you pass up a book with such an intriguing front and back cover? I found this book at the library in the new books section. I had read Pride and Prejudice and Zombies and knew that I was in for some fun reading. I had heard about ALVH and I was curious as to how an author could combine actual historical facts and fiction together. Well, it works with this book. Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter reads like a historical document. It combines a biography of Abraham Lincoln's life, his journal entries, and some photos. Only sometimes it is truly hard to tell what is fact and what is fiction. Your only clue is that vampires are involved. I found it to be an enjoyable read. ...more Seth Grahame-Smith does an excellent job combining history with fantastical fiction, and it all comes together with gruesome detail in this book. I half expected this to be a comedy (not having read anything else by him), but I was definitely surprised by some of the turns this story took. Not for the squeamish! Its more believable than a ninety year old vampire hanging out in high school. I cant wait for the movie, yes there is a movie in the works. This is my third time reading this book. As you can see it didn\u2019t take me long to read it this time (it is a very quick read). I really enjoy it, I love to re-read it, and it\u2019s one of my favorite books. I still remember that day way back in 2010, when I walked into Barnes & Noble and the shelves were lined with a new book called Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter . My first reaction was, \u201cWTF??!!!\u201d The cover that was staring me in the face, with that absurd title, a picture of Abraham Lincoln hold This is my third time reading this book. As you can see it didn\u2019t take me long to read it this time (it is a very quick read). I really enjoy it, I love to re-read it, and it\u2019s one of my favorite books. I still remember that day way back in 2010, when I walked into Barnes & Noble and the shelves were lined with a new book called Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter . My first reaction was, \u201cWTF??!!!\u201d The cover that was staring me in the face, with that absurd title, a picture of Abraham Lincoln holding an ax behind his back and covered in blood\u2026.the whole idea that hit me\u2026I thought it was ridiculous and was shocked. Yes\u2026ME!!! The guy who is obsessed with vampires! However, my brain did a total one-eighty and I suddenly thought, \u201cWait a minute\u2026Abraham Lincoln\u2026kicking vampire ass! That sounds kind of cool!\u201d So, I picked up a copy of the book, purchased it and went home and began reading it. It starts out in 1818 Indiana, after nine year old Abe\u2019s mother is killed by a vampire; he swears revenge and becomes a vampire hunter. He goes on many adventures, both true and fictional. The story follows him all the way from age nine, to his teens, to his twenties and up to his death. It tells of his life on the Mississippi, his becoming a lawyer, his rise through politics all the way up to the presidency while at the same time telling his double life as the greatest vampire hunter that ever lived. I was surprised; it was such a great book. Seth Grahame-Smith weaves historical accuracy with vampires so well that you almost want to believe that this thing actually happened! WHY SETH GRAHAME-SMITH DID THIS: Grahame-Smith said in interviews, etc. that he was going around the country, speaking in a lot of different book stores. At the time, the current vampire craze was at it\u2019s zenith and it was also the bicentennial of Lincoln\u2019s birth. So, in every book store he went to, there would always be a table with all the vampire books on it right next to a table with all the Abraham Lincoln Biographies on it. He then thought, \u201cPeople just can\u2019t seem to get enough of Abraham Lincoln and vampires\u2026 well, what if it was like the Reese\u2019s Peanut Butter cup philosophy, in which I put the two together?\u201d And that\u2019s how it started. What this is is a \u201cmashup\u201d, which is a genre that is very popular right now. According to vampires.com, there are currently over 854985093 billion historical/monster mashups out there. There is George Washington Werewolf , Romeo and Juliet and Vampires , Little Women and Werewolves , Robin Hood and Friar Tuck: Zombie Killers \u2026these are actual books!!! The only other mashup I\u2019ve ever read besides Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter is Carpathia ,which is about vampires feeding of the survivors of the sinking of the Titanic. But Seth Grahame-Smith seems to be the one who started it all. However, he says he doesn\u2019t think that the mashup will last, and that he wants to write other stuff. I think he\u2019s a great writer; I\u2019d like to see what else he can do. If you\u2019re looking for some deeper meaning, a metaphor or something, I guess you can analyze this book to death but you\u2019re not going to find much. Seth Grahame-Smith is not making fun of Abraham Lincoln, he\u2019s not really trying to say something more than what I\u2019ve already described. He\u2019s just a guy who really likes horror. He grew up on Stephen King, etc. THE MOVIE: It is disappointing that the Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter movie was so different then the book. They left out a lot of those historical facts about Abe Lincoln, cut out characters, both historical and fictional, and it was just a different story. And they really could have done without the scene with that horse chase; did anyone else besides me think that was ridiculous? I mean, when they made a movie out of The Exorcist , William Peter Blatty wrote the screenplay (as did Seth Grahame-Smith for Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter ), and Blatty remained as faithful to his novel as he possibly could. Why couldn\u2019t Grahame-Smith do that? It was also extremely disappointing that the movie didn\u2019t do as well as was hoped. The book is a New York Times bestseller, but I guess it just didn\u2019t work as a movie. I don\u2019 t know, Roger Ebert gave it a good review with four out of five stars, and they are currently showing it on FX. It may sound like I am saying I didn\u2019t like the movie but I did! I saw it twice when it was in theaters, and own it on DVD. I liked how they got Greg Cannom, the same guy who did the vampire make up special effects for The Lost Boys to work on this film. The vampires looked scary as hell! And I liked some of the characters they added, like Abe\u2019s friend, Will Johnson and the head vampire, Adam (played by Rufus Sewell). Getting back to the book\u2026I\u2019m glad I got to read it again this year. Will I read it a fourth time? I don\u2019t know. I have other Lincoln books to compare it to, like The Lincolns and Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America (which I look forward to reading). Even though Seth Grahame Smith says he wants to stop doing mash ups, he is coming out with a \u201cfollow-up\u201d to Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter , believe it or not. It will be called The Last American Vampire (I don\u2019t think Abe will be in it\u2026that wouldn\u2019t work ). It will be about Henry Sturges, the \u201cgood guy vampire\u201d who was Abe\u2019s friend and taught him how to fight. It will have him fight Jack the Ripper, fight in World War II, and will revolve around the JFK assassination along with some other pretty interesting historical stuff. It\u2019s set to come out in January, 2015. I\u2019ve already ordered my copy and can\u2019t wait! ...more Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is a novel purporting to tell the secret history of vampires in America, who in the 19th century were hunted by none less than our sixteenth president, Abraham Lincoln. When I first began this book, I was hoping for something along the lines of the degree of awesomess of, say, this painting of George Washington fighting a Bengal tiger on a boat during a hurricane. Unfortunately, what I got was a book that mangled the lessons behind American history and the true per Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter is a novel purporting to tell the secret history of vampires in America, who in the 19th century were hunted by none less than our sixteenth president, Abraham Lincoln. When I first began this book, I was hoping for something along the lines of the degree of awesomess of, say, this painting of George Washington fighting a Bengal tiger on a boat during a hurricane. Unfortunately, what I got was a book that mangled the lessons behind American history and the true personality of our great president in an attempt to be funny and strike that same chord of humor. This book contained so many moments that could have been truly great, truly funny, amplifying a period in American history we are all familiar with from history classes and adding to it a little mystery and horror, but it failed almost every time. Firstly, there is the issue of using a real-life, public figure like Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln was a complicated man, who rose from basically nothing to become a lawyer and then a president. He dabbled in politics a few times, never seemed to truly enjoy being in the limelight and sought to further his beliefs, not his own ambition. In the book, Lincoln has these qualities, but with the strange addition of a lust for killing vampires. I have to ask, does the man quoted below sound like he would go after intelligent beings with morals and values that differ between individuals just like human beings? I have always found that mercy bears richer fruits than strict justice. and The best way to destroy an enemy is to make him a friend. No, he does not, and I don't think that Abraham Lincoln would have been sucked into vampire hunting, even if, as the book suggests, some of his closest family members were killed by vampires. It's one thing to pick fictional characters, or invent a character from history to go on a vampire-killing rampage, but if you pick a well-known person like Lincoln, you have to stay true to his character, and this book does not. It rings false. Now. This alone made the book difficult to read. Other plot inconsistencies and weirdness made it even more difficult. For example, Lincoln's vampire friend Henry supposedly came along on the ill-fated expedition to the New World that settled at Roanoke Colony, which eventually disappeared, one of those cool little mysteries of American history. According to Henry's account, only he and another vampire lived at the end of the Roanoke ordeal. Then, what did they live on? No indication is given in the book of vampires surviving on animal blood. Did they hunt Native Americans? Did they bide their time and find other colonial settlements? How did they integrate themselves into the often small groups of settlers who came along? Aside from plot inconsistencies, the book itself is often inconsistent. The dialogue is often wrong for the period, jarring especially when chapters are begun with actual valid Lincoln quotes. The use of excerpts from the \"diary\" seems random. Why quote some parts and paraphrase others - why not quote or paraphrase the entire thing? (Funnily enough, Lincoln apparently lapses into third person during an excerpt on page 240 of my copy.) The diary was basically entirely not necessary. It serves just as the background for the book and for the author to put himself (or a Mary Sue ) in the book. No explanation is given for why the diary was given to the author, except that the vampire who gives it to him has recognized his extraordinary literary genius. There are some good portions of this book. The bits of it done from John Wilkes Booth's point of view (although inconsistent with the book: how did the author know what John Wilkes Booth was thinking? Lincoln certainly did not put that down in his diary) are well-written, and actually made me wish the whole thing was done from his perspective. I initially thought the \"photo evidence\" was just silly, but it actually ended up being kind of funny, and seeing famous historical photos doctored to add vampires was pretty good. (Though, if fire is painful to vampires, as is light, you would think the extremely bright flashes from cameras of the day would severely injure them.) The humor potential of this book is there, but never quite reached. I think the author ought to stick to fictional characters, as there are just too many questions that arise, and inconsistencies that have to be explained, when one plays around with a historical figure like Lincoln. ...more Overall, this held my attention and kept me entertained. The premise is clever, and it\u2019s fun to imagine a president I\u2019ve always thought of as fairly mild-mannered as such a warrior. It was interesting the way the author wove actual Lincoln material into the narrative and how he augmented the evils of slavery by making it a vampire-backed enterprise. I also liked how there were two factions of vampires, instead of making them all one thing or the other. I really liked Henry; I wish there had been Overall, this held my attention and kept me entertained. The premise is clever, and it\u2019s fun to imagine a president I\u2019ve always thought of as fairly mild-mannered as such a warrior. It was interesting the way the author wove actual Lincoln material into the narrative and how he augmented the evils of slavery by making it a vampire-backed enterprise. I also liked how there were two factions of vampires, instead of making them all one thing or the other. I really liked Henry; I wish there had been even more about him. At times the style did feel a little bit odd, although it\u2019s the style of research papers/biographies, mixing the biographer\u2019s voice with first-person quotes from journals, letters, etc. The book would've worked as a straight-up narrative, but I admire the ambition of writing it as a biography. A few times, things got a little confusing--mostly when the author took a few unnecessary detours away from Lincoln\u2019s POV. While the attempt to provide some insight into John Wilkes Booth\u2019s POV was understandable, it didn\u2019t quite work. Grammar pet peeve: some of the punctuation usage got on my nerves a bit. (Some of the commas were in keeping with 19th century style, but there were too many of them all the same.) Also, while I understand why the author would want to set up the story the way he did--with the tale of being presented the materials by Henry--it felt like only half a frame. Ending the story with Martin Luther King, Jr. was cute; but I wondered if Henry intended for \u201cSeth\u201d to become a vampire hunter and possible vampire himself instead of just a biographer. A mere 9 days after finishing reading the book, I watched the movie. Wow, they changed most of the plot! I liked the book's storyline better for the most part. They changed Henry too much and massively oversimplified things with new explanations, changes in characters' actions and invention of new characters. I'm thinking Grahame-Smith's co-writer insisted on shoving the book into the Movie Screenplay Formula-o-Matic. I did like the movie's addition of 2 characters, though: Will Johnson, a freeborn black friend of Abe's, and Harriet Tubman. Including the Underground Railroad in the book would've been great. ...more I am not an expert on Abraham Lincoln's life. I know he was the 16th President. That his election as President along with a few other events lead to the South seceding from the Union and the start of the Civil War. He emancipated the slaves, wrote the Gettysburg address and was assassinated by John Wilkes Booth in the Ford Theater. I may know a fact or two more if I thinking about it. You may also think you know a lot about life but after reading this controversial biography you may be thinking I am not an expert on Abraham Lincoln's life. I know he was the 16th President. That his election as President along with a few other events lead to the South seceding from the Union and the start of the Civil War. He emancipated the slaves, wrote the Gettysburg address and was assassinated by John Wilkes Booth in the Ford Theater. I may know a fact or two more if I thinking about it. You may also think you know a lot about life but after reading this controversial biography you may be thinking how did they keep the exists of Vampires a secret all these years and how did we not know that Lincoln was a vampire hunter. We discover that in addition to Lincolns disgust with slavery he begins to understand (with the help of another vampire) that the bigger threat slavery imposes is the easy access vampires have to a food supply and how this helps them gain a strangling foot hold in our young nation. Focusing more on his earlier life rather than the years of his Presidency the book explores how Mr. Lincoln discovered that vampires exists and how the death of his mother at the hands of a vampire lead him on the journey that ended up with him being elected President. Okay all joking aside....I truly enjoyed this book. Full of historical facts (with footnotes and historical pictures) about Lincoln you will find yourself questioning, \u201cWas Lincoln really a vampire hunter and is that the reason behind the Civil War?\u201d It just seems to make sense even if you don't believe in vampires. Which I don't. But recently when watching a documentary on the Civil War I keep saying to my boyfriend they are wrong Lincoln did that because of the vampires. This book, written like a biography, is a quick easy read. And despite the title is surprisingly with out gore. Yes vampires die by losing heads and in other gruesome ways it is all told rather matter fact with out to much detail to the blood and guts. ...more Tremendously exciting and compelling. Yet also frustrating and disappointing. I had really mixed feelings about this book. The use of vampires as a plot feature is both an incredible blessing and a fatal flaw. On the one hand, because \"vampires\" are the force behind slavery in the south, the author can afford to be brutally honest and shockingly direct about how bad slavery really was. It's worth noting that, even half a century after the Civil Rights movement, most so-called \"literary\" fiction a Tremendously exciting and compelling. Yet also frustrating and disappointing. I had really mixed feelings about this book. The use of vampires as a plot feature is both an incredible blessing and a fatal flaw. On the one hand, because \"vampires\" are the force behind slavery in the south, the author can afford to be brutally honest and shockingly direct about how bad slavery really was. It's worth noting that, even half a century after the Civil Rights movement, most so-called \"literary\" fiction about the South, (COLD MOUNTAIN, THE CONFESSIONS OF NAT TURNER) tends to be written by southerners themselves, with plenty of evasions and a lot of self-pity. Ironically, because this is a \"silly monster story\" the author can say things about the South that would simply not be tolerated in a \"literary\" novel. The slaveowners in this novel are monsters. Literal monsters. The author makes no excuses. And Lincoln shows no mercy. On the other hand, the use of vampires also weakens the character of Abraham Lincoln. While he's a powerful slayer early on, by the end of the book he's almost as much a puppet of vampires, (albeit \"good\" vampires) as his sleazy nemesis, Jefferson Davis. Too much of the time Lincoln is merely a passive figure, and the narrative really drags once he hangs up his axe. While the beginning of this story is incredibly well-researched and compelling, the ending feels rushed, and even sloppy, as though the author got bored with the story half way through and merely decided to wrap things up in a hurry. I wanted to learn a lot more about where the vampires all went to after the war was lost, and why John Wilkes Booth and Jefferson Davis didn't receive more support from their special friends. Maybe the author will write more someday! ...more I have to admit, I wanted the book because of the cover art and because of the ludicrous premise. Abraham Lincoln being a secret vampire hunter, and that being a big influence in his stopping American slavery. I personally find this story extremely interesting, even though it has the ability to cross over to cheesy at any moment, it actually doesn't. The vibe is very serious, violent, and tragic. Even when they introduce unlikely but just as famous names/characters, you get to see the story throu I have to admit, I wanted the book because of the cover art and because of the ludicrous premise. Abraham Lincoln being a secret vampire hunter, and that being a big influence in his stopping American slavery. I personally find this story extremely interesting, even though it has the ability to cross over to cheesy at any moment, it actually doesn't. The vibe is very serious, violent, and tragic. Even when they introduce unlikely but just as famous names/characters, you get to see the story through the eyes of an author who is just as in shock as you are, it humanizes it, grounds the story, even when you're reading about an axe welding President. It doesn't surprise me that they are making it into a movie. Although at first, I was cringing at the thought. It's one of those stories that works well as a book, but can easily be turned into a joke on the big screen. Think 'Hellsing' or 'League of Extraordinary Gentlemen'. But I must say, I have alot of hope, now that I know Tim Burton is directing it. In truth, I want to pick up a real biography now. ...more I loved this book! It was rather clever and amazingly entertaining. I always thought Abraham was a pretty cool guy, but this was totally fun story to run with. Good book to escape into. ;)", "Title": "Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter"},
