{"Comments": "This was supposed to be the one where I let myself reminisce, and I had all sorts of ideas for things I wanted to say, but now they all sort of sound like oversharing and I don't feel like making you uncomfortable, so I'm not going to do that.<---F> Instead</---F>... It has come to my attention that certain people don't think this is a particularly 'moral' book. Not to name any names, but there are only two one-star reviews for it so I think you'll be able to find the one I mean pretty easily. I don't believe This was supposed to be the one where I let myself reminisce, and I had all sorts of ideas for things I wanted to say, but now they all sort of sound like oversharing and I don't feel like making you uncomfortable, so I'm not going to do that. Instead... It has come to my attention that certain people don't think this is a particularly 'moral' book. Not to name any names, but there are only two one-star reviews for it so I think you'll be able to find the one I mean pretty easily. I don't believe in trolling, and I'm not sure I could respond to that review without trolling, so I choose to write my rebuttal here. Point One: Kel knows too much for her age. First off, she isn't fourteen for the entire book; by the end, she's had her eighteenth birthday. Second, the world she lives in and the life she's chosen to lead mean that she sees a lot of nasty things, but the way Pierce presents it is in no way gratuitous; it's wrapped up in maturity, which is one of Kel's strong points. Point Two: She has crushes on multiple boys. OH THE HORROR. I mean,<---M> MY GAWD</---M>, who ever heard of a girl who liked more than one boy? We all find our ONE TWU WUVS in our teens and live babies ever after, right? I doubt I'm the only one who finds it refreshing to read about a heroine who has more than one love interest. I mean, how many crushes have I had in the past four years? Apparently, an immoral amount. Go figure. Point Three: Kel has no intention of marrying anyone, but she does have relationships. If I remember right, Alanna made the same declarations and, well, there are two books about her daughter now so... But anyhow, in this day and age? Women get to have relationships that don't end in marriage. Just as they get to have crushes on multiple guys. And for the record, at no point in all four books does Kel have a sexual relationship. The closest she ever gets is kissing Cleon. Point Four: Ilane, Kel's mother, buys her an anti-pregnancy charm. Which is actually inaccurate - Lady Ilane tells Kel that she might want one, but Kel's the one who makes the decision and purchases it. And I quote: \"Kel wore the charm anyway, as a declaration that she could decide some things for herself.\" Clearly, my multiple crushes have made me immoral anyway, so maybe my opinion doesn't count for much, but I think that's one of the most empowering ideas of our time. That's what contraception is about, after all: giving a woman the freedom to choose when she has children. (And seriously, DID YOU MISS THE MEMO? Kel's dedicated years of her life and ridiculous amounts of effort to becoming a knight. If her choices were either complete abstinence or babies and giving up her dreams, I would be pissed, personally.) Yes, this is the future of 'heroine-ism', or at least it should be. Maybe some people would prefer Bella Swan to take up that standard, and I'm not going to outright say that they're batshit crazy but I'm going to think it . The fact is, Kel is the heroine modern girls should be looking up to - she knows who she is, what she believes; she fights for her dreams; she takes control of her personal life and her sexuality; she is smart and brave and flawed and human. She is the kind of woman I want to be when I grow up. Some choice quotes: Lady Ilane: \"They know a woman's body belongs to herself and the Goddess, and that's the end of it.\" Kel: \"Maybe I'm the same whatever I wear, she thought. It's just easier to fight in breeches.\" (Now, I will grant that this book is a little light on plot. The main point is showing how Kel gets to the Chamber of the Ordeal to become a knight, and the experiences that help determine what kind of knight she is. That's the arc of the novel; most of it feels fairly episodic.) By the way, Veronica Roth: Chamber of the Ordeal > fear simulator. Times about a gazillion. You should have read these books and taken notes. ...more Buddy Reread 1/29/15-1/30/15 w/Monica (the other <---A>Tamora Pierce</---A> lover who thinks Alanna is still more legendary, hmmph!) Read this series. If you love fantasy and action and light but worthwhile romance with a strong protagonist and amazing worlds and believable characters and awesome friendships and epic pets and straight-out-of-a-movie battle sequences then read this series. 5 STARS AND THAT'S HOW YOU DO IT. Once upon a time in college, a friend and I realized we'd had similar experiences with this book. Specifically, we both started at book 3 in a series after finding it on a bookstore shelf and snapping it up on a whim. I go back and forth about whether Protector of the Small or Trickster's Choice represent my favorite Tamora Pierce books, but this one's definitely my favorite within the Protector of the Small framework. The entire series revolves around Kel, beginning at age 10 when she's the firs Once upon a time in college, a friend and I realized we'd had similar experiences with this book. Specifically, we both started at book 3 in a series after finding it on a bookstore shelf and snapping it up on a whim. I go back and forth about whether Protector of the Small or Trickster's Choice represent my favorite Tamora Pierce books, but this one's definitely my favorite within the Protector of the Small framework. The entire series revolves around Kel, beginning at age 10 when she's the first girl to commit to knight's training while actually admitting she's a girl. They are school/training the hero stories at heart - and wonderful in that respect - if a little childish when the main plots of 1 & 2 revolve around bullies. Books 3 & 4 , however, have a more YA (or traditional fantasy) feel, with Kel significantly older, taking on bigger responsibilities and concerns, and juggling a more mature plot and lengthier tome at the same time. If \"girl training to be a knight\" sounds like it might be up your alley, I can highly recommend this series. I can also recommend <+++>Squire</+++> as a starting point. Enough of the backstory is explained. Hell, I never even got to read book 2 ( Page ) until I was at least 3 rereads in. Lots of mentally filling in blanks there, and I ultimately didn't miss anything. ...more <+++>Squire</+++> is basically everything I could ever want in a Tamora Pierce book, and if this series ended here, I would be okay with that. Kel really is a wonderful heroine, and I loved getting to see her finally achieve her dream in this novel. Things about Squire : - I was very happy that the trial for Lalasa's attackers wasn't forgotten, and I really liked the way that played out. - King Jonathan is a great character, and it's been really interesting to see how he has grown and changed over time throu Squire is basically everything I could ever want in a Tamora Pierce book, and if this series ended here, I would be okay with that. Kel really is a wonderful heroine, and I loved getting to see her finally achieve her dream in this novel. Things about Squire : - I was very happy that the trial for Lalasa's attackers wasn't forgotten, and I really liked the way that played out. - King Jonathan is a great character, and it's been really interesting to see how he has grown and changed over time through the eyes of multiple different heroines (Alanna, Daine, and now Kel) who all view him from very different perspectives. - I love Raoul. I also love how right he is as a mentor for Kel. - I have mixed feelings about the Cleon/Kel romance. However, I like that we get so many of Kel's thoughts on it all. I also like that Kel models responsible behavior by thinking of and obtaining birth control even though she's not sure if she wants to or plans to have sex. - I was happy that Raoul talked with Kel in such a non-judgmental way about her relationship with Cleon and how that might affect her career. Raoul's giving her advice and information that she needs to be able to make the decision that's right for her, and I like that he was willing to do that since she doesn't have access to women who might be able to tell her what she needs to know. Also, Raoul's awkwardness about talking to Kel about sex was adorable. - Kel's discussion with her mother about sex is really interesting and gives a fuller picture of what Tortall's sexual mores are like. - I have never cried so much over birds before. - Kel finally gets to meet Alanna and it's everything I hoped it would be. Their conversation is so perfect in so many ways, and there were more tears. - Kel's shield sounds awesome. - The Chamber of the Ordeal is an asshole. ...more This review was from my snarky early teen years. I only kept it up to keep a trail for myself of how I've grown, figuratively and mentally. Since people see fit to stumble on it once in a while and leave long comments telling me how wrong/ignorant/prudish I am, I'm removing it. And I'm removing those comments as well. Because I don't have time for that. It's 2 am and I'm writing reviews. I rarely revisit books I read in my childhood, partly because I'm deathly afraid they'll be visited by the suck fairy and partly because I rarely have time to re-read. Not so with these books. I began reading Tamora Pierce when I was eleven, and unlike so many others, I started reading her Circle of Magic books first. While I enjoyed them, I didn't understand why she inspired such fervent love in other fans--until I read her Tortall books. And yes, I enjoyed the It's 2 am and I'm writing reviews. I rarely revisit books I read in my childhood, partly because I'm deathly afraid they'll be visited by the suck fairy and partly because I rarely have time to re-read. Not so with these books. I began reading Tamora Pierce when I was eleven, and unlike so many others, I started reading her Circle of Magic books first. While I enjoyed them, I didn't understand why she inspired such fervent love in other fans--until I read her Tortall books. And yes, I enjoyed the Alanna and Daine books, but until I got to Kel I did not love them. Alanna and Daine had their own, very powerful brands of magic--Alanna had the Gift and Daine had wild magic, and Kel? What did she have? Blood, sweat and tears, dammit! I remember being thirteen and waiting, waiting for Lady Knight to come out. The Kel books were my books , and I will defend them to the death. If you don't want to hear about why I think the Kel books are the best Tortall books EVER and Kel is the best heroine EVER, then you probably want to skip this. - I love how Kel sweats. She doesn't have a goddess helping her, nor is she a demi-goddess herself (ahem!), she has NO MAGIC WHATSOEVER. Her only magic is hard work and a huge capacity for compassion. - This girl has got the strongest moral core I can think of, and she's so internally solid that, when faced with a dilemma, I sometimes think: What would Kel do? - I'm a pretty tiny person, but I have read so many girl heroes who are runty and svelte, and I love how Kel is tall and muscled. - The big one--this book is about openly being a girl in a male-dominated field. While I don't pretend Alanna's path was easy, I can't imagine anything more difficult than facing the same challenges as a knight-in-training with your sex exposed to everyone. Conservative politicians. Asshole boys. And worst of all, other women. And these people say so many nasty things, and get under your skin in all the most horrible of ways that can never go reported, that hit harder than punches and cut deeper than swords. It's the same hit you feel when you hear you can never be good enough because, well, you'll never be a physical match as the boys, and you must only be doing this to get a husband, right? It's facing all the other invisible things--like your hair or your period or people whispering that you're a slut--that boys don't have to think about because they're the neutral default. My junior year of college, I went from a male-dominated field of study to a field with a lot more females. I now work in an office of almost entirely women, which I really enjoy. But a big part of me remembers what it feels like to be the token girl. Even though I was never overtly harassed, the \"under your skin\" insults don't get reported... much. - Yet, despite the obstacles, Kel ultimately triumphs. Duh. But she has a lot of help--very important help--along the way. Her family is amazingly supportive, which I loved reading about, and she had a best friend who stood behind her from day one. While she had to deal with ornery Lord Wyldon, she also had the nurturing and easygoing Lord Raoul, two wonderful instructors that both shaped her into the kickass warrior she became in the end. There are the parts where she triumphs and defeats the bad guys, and then there are the parts that she can't do anything about, because people are so ingrained in their beliefs and will always believe what they believe, and it sucks out loud. - Also, this book is so contemporary because it's one of the few high fantasy YAs that is about leadership, and not a hero from the darkness or the Chosen One, etc. I shan't ever forget the speech Lord Raoul gave Kel about commanders, or Wyldon giving her the bum job because she's the only one who really--really!--cared about refugees. Kel is both a warrior and a social activist. - And finally, I love how, while there's some romance and swoonytimes, it's not the main focus and Kel is very determinedly unattached at the end of the series. (Oops, sorry, spoiler.) I'm pretty sure this is what turns a lot of people off of these books, and they are LAME. Because LOOK AT ALL OF THIS OTHER AWESOME STUFF. This review is attached to Squire but is meant to be for the entire Protector of the Small series. I love every book in it, especially Page for the majority of academy training, but Squire is my favourite for the Grand Progress and Lord Raoul. And the crazy griffin. ...more Okay, I meant to do a review of the entire series, but Squire made my heart soar that I couldn't just step away and say: \"Will review the series at the end.\" Squire Keladry is a diamond. She's a girl undergoing her knighthood training some century after lady knights have grown out of fashion in Tortall. Save Alanna, of course; but to Tortallans, the Lioness is an entity in herself. So it's up to Kel to turn the conservatives' heads the other way by making her own statement: that girls can be knig Okay, I meant to do a review of the entire series, but Squire made my heart soar that I couldn't just step away and say: \"Will review the series at the end.\" Squire Keladry is a diamond. She's a girl undergoing her knighthood training some century after lady knights have grown out of fashion in Tortall. Save Alanna, of course; but to Tortallans, the Lioness is an entity in herself. So it's up to Kel to turn the conservatives' heads the other way by making her own statement: that girls can be knights, too. And as Kel is pitted against bandits, militarized Scanran, and knight-bullies on and off the tourny field, it becomes obvious that Kel is here to stay. I frelling loved this book. It wasn't because old characters came along for the ride (though that helped). It wasn't because there was a lot of the Tortallan land that got covered during the Great Progress and then-some (that also helped). Heck, it wasn't even the fact that there were more badass Yamani females with their weaponized fans and glaives (though that really helped). I loved it 'cause I loved Kel's growth in all of what's happened. And I couldn't help but grin from ear to ear at that last moment, when she realizes who her \"mystery benefactor\" was. That was a supremely amazing moment. And gosh, with how the Scanrans ended their feud with Tortall in this book, I can only imagine what amazingness Kel's going to be on come the final book of the quartet. Okay, I can stop blathering on now. ...more 04/13: it doesn't matter how often i read these books, i inevitably spend half the time clutching the book to my chest and declaring my love for all of the characters and crying about how much i love everyone. ----- 09/10: oh my god raoul, there aren't enough heart-hands IN THE WORLD. he is so good and smart and funny and amazing! he has such faith in kel and in the system, and i mean, seriously, people with stupid amounts of honor are such a turn-on for me, and hfurevhreu RAOUL. neal telling kel w 04/13: it doesn't matter how often i read these books, i inevitably spend half the time clutching the book to my chest and declaring my love for all of the characters and crying about how much i love everyone. ----- 09/10: oh my god raoul, there aren't enough heart-hands IN THE WORLD. he is so good and smart and funny and amazing! he has such faith in kel and in the system, and i mean, seriously, people with stupid amounts of honor are such a turn-on for me, and hfurevhreu RAOUL. neal telling kel who his knight-master is = \u2665. end of story. and the scene at the end with alanna is so fabulous! it made me cry a little. i also cried a little when wyldon resigned. kel's little speech to him and his response just KILLS ME. but his new squire brings me dumb amounts of happiness, so. jon is still an ass, but thayet is awesome enough to make up for it. i really want the story behind jon talking his daughter out of becoming a knight, mostly because i want to see alanna threaten to stab him in the throat. (kel's conclusions about jon- that he is a great king, but not a great man- are my conclusions about jon. except i think he would be a terrible king without thayet and alanna and raoul making sure he isn't a dickface all the time.) i love yuki and shinko a lot, and i wish there was more of them. neal/yuki is so fucking cute though (THE SCENE WITH THE FAN TOSSING) that i will settle for what we get. ...more Oh these books, every time I read them it's like visiting a best friend. I adore Kel today as much as I did when these books were first published; I will forever be grateful to Tamora Pierce for creating this fantastic heroine because \"bless [her], [she is] real.\" Kel doesn't have the Gift or any wild magic to help her. She gets everything only through grimy, hard work and persistence just like the rest of us and I admire her so much for it. I reread these books ALL THE TIME because I need that. Oh these books, every time I read them it's like visiting a best friend. I adore Kel today as much as I did when these books were first published; I will forever be grateful to Tamora Pierce for creating this fantastic heroine because \"bless [her], [she is] real.\" Kel doesn't have the Gift or any wild magic to help her. She gets everything only through grimy, hard work and persistence just like the rest of us and I admire her so much for it. I reread these books ALL THE TIME because I need that. I need to know that I can crawl out of the mud and be my own hero - no magic required. ...more This is my favourie in the series. I love this book!! Kel is now a squire to Lord Raoul, at first she is nervous but the two soon become very close. Kel gets better and better at fighting and leading people. Kel even starts a budding romance. I love the relationship her and Raoul have, I love reading about the realationships between a young person and their mentor! Plus I just love Raoul in general , he is such an awesome character! One of my favourite Tamora Pierce books yet and a favourite in This is my favourie in the series. I love this book!! Kel is now a squire to Lord Raoul, at first she is nervous but the two soon become very close. Kel gets better and better at fighting and leading people. Kel even starts a budding romance. I love the relationship her and Raoul have, I love reading about the realationships between a young person and their mentor! Plus I just love Raoul in general , he is such an awesome character! One of my favourite Tamora Pierce books yet and a favourite in general! ...more 4.5 Stars! I really enjoyed Squire - definitely the most out of the first 3 books in this series. This book is where the series diverges the most from the same things that Alanna went through with her training. Squire covers all four years of Keladry's time as a Squire (obviously) all the way up until her Knight test. We see a lot of the world and of Keladry and the court as well during this book. Squire deals with a lot more of the political aspects of Tortall and the court. So much so that a la 4.5 Stars! I really enjoyed Squire - definitely the most out of the first 3 books in this series. This book is where the series diverges the most from the same things that Alanna went through with her training. Squire covers all four years of Keladry's time as a Squire (obviously) all the way up until her Knight test. We see a lot of the world and of Keladry and the court as well during this book. Squire deals with a lot more of the political aspects of Tortall and the court. So much so that a large portion of the book is spent traveling on progress with the court on a tour of the country. At first, Kel is content to simply be a squire, but soon she takes up the challenge to show off her skill at the joust. Jousting also brings to a boil a romance that has been simmering for the past 4 years. Pretty steamy if you ask me! Sadly, becoming a squire also means that Kel is now separated from her friends. Though they do see a bit of each other at the court events and on progress, they are no longer together each day, all day. No more study sessions, no more patrols. The animals remain, however, with the addition of a few new ones. Kel receives another horse, one much less bad tempered than Peachblossom, and also stumbles across a griffin! (Not a spoiler, it's on the front cover!!) Though there is also loss among the good and I definitely shed a few tears. Kel's skills continue to expand beyond combat and she really starts to learn the ins and outs of strategy and leadership. Things start to turn a bit darker toward the end of the book, and the battle before Kel's knight test is quite brutal. There are also some creepy ass machines that I just KNOW are going to be some horrific device. Pretty sure they are created using dead children. Yet again, we see Kel take charge and leadership (which she did in the other books as well, but I totally forgot to mention) even when the situation is dire and other, more seasoned members are losing their sense. The story ends in the perfect place. Kel has completed the knights test with shining colors and has met Alanna, The Lioness, for the first time, also discovering who her benefactor has been these many years. It was a very nice, wholesome finish to the book. Yet now, we are left knowing what must come and feeling no small measure of fear for what Kel must face in the final book of this series. ...more Squire is my favorite book in the series. It is very much the \"coming of age\" book for its main protagonist, Kel. She has graduated from page training and become a squire, ready to be trained in the field by a knight...if only one would pick her. Most of her friends have been snapped up already, and most of the knights who intend to take squires for training have already made their choices. It leaves her feeling morose, believing that nobody would want \"the girl\" to train. Luckily, she is proven Squire is my favorite book in the series. It is very much the \"coming of age\" book for its main protagonist, Kel. She has graduated from page training and become a squire, ready to be trained in the field by a knight...if only one would pick her. Most of her friends have been snapped up already, and most of the knights who intend to take squires for training have already made their choices. It leaves her feeling morose, believing that nobody would want \"the girl\" to train. Luckily, she is proven wrong when Sir Raoul, a knight who has made a few past appearances, chooses her. At first, she believes it's out of pity, or because he was asked to by his friend Alanna, the first Lady Knight of Tortall, who has a vested interest in her success. But Raoul has his own reasons, and they are enough to convince Kel of his sincerity. Raoul knows of her past successes, when she had to take charge of some of her fellow pages when those who should have been leading them found themselves unable to handle the pressure. He knows that, with the right training, she could be a brilliant leader. And so her training begins, as she travels with a company of warriors called the King's Own, commanded by Raoul himself. Much like previous books in the series, the challenges begin immediately, as she has to prove her skills to her fellow warriors and start dealing with the nitty-gritty aspects of battles, starting with tracking a band of thieves and murderers across the countryside. Meanwhile, the greater world doesn't stop turning, as the Prince is betrothed to a foreign noble and the Royal family takes two years to travel around Tortall in a Grand Progress to celebrate. Kel proves her skill in jousting tournaments while her Knight-master does everything he can to avoid the pomp and circumstance. But their visits to the Grand Progress never last long, as there is always a new crisis to deal with. Kel continues to grow up during the story, living out her later teenage years as adulthood, and the ominous \"final test\" she will face to earn her knighthood, loom before her. The escalating tensions between Tortall and one of its neighbors finally reach the breaking point, and war breaks out. And the enemies have a special surprise that appears near the end of the book. Meanwhile, Kel has dealt with teenage crushes, the usual prejudices she has experienced ever since becoming a page, combat with bandits and some of the first few battles of the newly-begun war before she has to face her last test: a night spent in an ancient chamber that will force her to confront her greatest fears and worst nightmares, a night during which she is not allowed to speak a single word. Squire does an excellent job introducing new characters while retaining old favorites without making the cast seem overly crowded. It also keeps the reader interested and weaves a wonderful plot, despite being the same length as the previous two books combined. Kel continues acting as a \"Protector of the Small\" by taking in a baby griffon stolen from its parents, helping villagers rebuild their home after a bandit raid, and looking after the various animals she's taken into her care since the beginning of the series. Additionally, the end of the book sets up the final book in the series, giving Kel a mission that she must complete, one that will prevent a great deal of bloodshed and terror, one that she must not fail, at any cost. ...more Funnily enough, Squire follows our heroine, Keladry of Mindelan, through her years as a squire. I know, right? Who'd have guessed. I'm not sure why I'm being so snarky about this, the book was lovely. At this point in the series, I'm not sure if there's any more apt of a word to describe Kel than to say she's 'steadfast.' She not only survives her (3-4?) years as a squire -- and she squires for no less of a knight than Raoul of Goldenlake, the commander of the King's Own, protectors of the realm Funnily enough, Squire follows our heroine, Keladry of Mindelan, through her years as a squire. I know, right? Who'd have guessed. I'm not sure why I'm being so snarky about this, the book was lovely. At this point in the series, I'm not sure if there's any more apt of a word to describe Kel than to say she's 'steadfast.' She not only survives her (3-4?) years as a squire -- and she squires for no less of a knight than Raoul of Goldenlake, the commander of the King's Own, protectors of the realm -- she thrives. Not to say that she isn't presented with challenges, because she is. She has to prove to almost every person she encounters that she deserves to be where she's at. They come at her with derision and violence, and she defeats them by doing nothing more than being herself: a skilled fighter and commander in training with a knack for winning the loyalty of others (be it human, animal, or immortal). Squire also serves as a sort of pivot point for the series. Kel's old adversaries either admit defeat (Lord Wyldon (view spoiler) [finally acknowedges Kel's worth as a potential knight and resigns (hide spoiler) ] ) or are defeated, but not always by what you would expect (Joren and Vinson, the bullies from books one and two (view spoiler) [come back in a grand fashion, only to be defeated by their own unbendable natures -- they both die while attempting the final Ordeal that would make them knights, the Chamber of the Ordeal apparently having found them unworthy (hide spoiler) ] ). But as soon as old adversaries are removed from Kel's path, new ones begin to show their faces. Scanran raids grow ever more frequent during Kel's years as a squire until finally they are on the brink of all out war. The appearance of a mysterious, strong, and new mechanical foe on the side of the Scanrans heralds things to come in book four. Kel, newly knighted, will no doubt have a place in those events. Oh, and also, there be some romance in the mix for the adolescent Kel. I can't say that I'm all attached to the idea of (view spoiler) [Cleon and Kel as a romantic pair (hide spoiler) ] , but I do like that Pierce is so dedicated to providing Kel with an authentic teenage experience, even as the rest of her life is so different, not only from our experiences in the real world, but from the experiences of girls in her own fictional world. ...more In this novel Kel has to go through four years as a squire before she can become a knight. For those of you who have read the first two books you will understand what I mean when I say: Yes! One step closer Kel just get through this and you will be a knight!!! Not to say that the adventure ends when she becomes a knight because in Lady Knight you realize the adventure is only just beginning but that is for my next review. In Squire Tamora Pierce as always hits the ball out of the park and makes In this novel Kel has to go through four years as a squire before she can become a knight. For those of you who have read the first two books you will understand what I mean when I say: Yes! One step closer Kel just get through this and you will be a knight!!! Not to say that the adventure ends when she becomes a knight because in Lady Knight you realize the adventure is only just beginning but that is for my next review. In Squire Tamora Pierce as always hits the ball out of the park and makes a run for home base, passing wide mouthed catchers and players who are all stunned at her talent. In addition, Kel has a little romance in this novel with a young man whose name I won\u2019t say so that I don\u2019t spoil the surprise! Did I mention there is a baby Griffon in this one? Because that is one of my favorite parts! Well\u2026 okay one of my many favorite parts. All I can say is again that Tamora pierce is a wonderfully talented author and her novels are never out of style or out of place. This novel is something that most girls will be able to relate to and shows the emotions under Kels solid controlled exterior. She also gets to use her Yamani Glave! From my blog: http://EmmaMichaels.Blogspot.com ...more This volume always feels like the time flies by even though it is longer to account for the four years as a squire. The book opens with Kel stressing over having not been chosen as a squire, but that is quickly remedied when she is chosen by Lord Raoul and so she continues her adventures with the King\u2019s Own. It always baffles me looking back that the griffin is only in Kel\u2019s life for less than a book because the creature is definitely a presence. (I don\u2019t quite consider this a spoiler as it is d This volume always feels like the time flies by even though it is longer to account for the four years as a squire. The book opens with Kel stressing over having not been chosen as a squire, but that is quickly remedied when she is chosen by Lord Raoul and so she continues her adventures with the King\u2019s Own. It always baffles me looking back that the griffin is only in Kel\u2019s life for less than a book because the creature is definitely a presence. (I don\u2019t quite consider this a spoiler as it is depicted on the cover in her hands.) Obviously I love Pierce\u2019s writing and story lines but I do have one quite fussy objection at the very end of this book. Up until this point Kel is a very self driven character without any of the meddling gods seen with Alanna and Daine and it is one of the reasons I love Kel. So I am always disappointed when the Chamber of Ordeals decides to give Kel a vision similar to the one handed to Alanna, pointing her in the direction of what needs to be done. It seems unnecessary when she has already begun to encounter the problem. Though honestly once I am into Lady Knight I almost forget this was done so really it doesn\u2019t matter. (This is the third book of the Protector of the Small quartet, a Tortall series.) ...more This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ Kelladry has passed all four years of being a page, and is now a squire. The only problem is that no knight has picked her for their squire. She is finally picked by Raoul Goldenlake, Commander of the Kings Own. As she accompanies Raoul on his adventures, she is accompanied by her old friends Jump, the dog, and Crown and her flock of sparrows. She also gains a Griffin rescued from a centaur raid. Kelladry has matured This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/ Kelladry has passed all four years of being a page, and is now a squire. The only problem is that no knight has picked her for their squire. She is finally picked by Raoul Goldenlake, Commander of the Kings Own. As she accompanies Raoul on his adventures, she is accompanied by her old friends Jump, the dog, and Crown and her flock of sparrows. She also gains a Griffin rescued from a centaur raid. Kelladry has matured even more in this book, and has even begun a romantic relationship, with Cleon. You also get to see Neal and Owen develop, and get to see how Raoul has matured since the events of Alana\u2019s books. You also get to see in more detail the culture of the Yamani Islands, as Roald\u2019s future bride comes from there. I liked this novel because, I am not sure why, but I really connected with Kel, and her friends. I would recommend Squire to anyone who enjoyed Artemis Fowl, or any of Julia Golding\u2019s books ...more MY GIRL KEL How do you rate a book if you were annoyed at its first half and loved the second half? In this case, I rate \u2018Squire\u2019 4.5 stars \u2013 because the second half made up for it and because it\u2019s definitely better than \u2018 First Test \u2019 and \u2018 Page \u2019. I think one of the reasons I wasn\u2019t invested in this book and I didn\u2019t enjoy this series as much as, say, \u2018 The Immortals Quartet \u2019, is because Kel\u2019s personality doesn\u2019t click with me. In this book, it becomes especially apparent since most of the characters I loved i How do you rate a book if you were annoyed at its first half and loved the second half? In this case, I rate \u2018Squire\u2019 4.5 stars \u2013 because the second half made up for it and because it\u2019s definitely better than \u2018 First Test \u2019 and \u2018 Page \u2019. I think one of the reasons I wasn\u2019t invested in this book and I didn\u2019t enjoy this series as much as, say, \u2018 The Immortals Quartet \u2019, is because Kel\u2019s personality doesn\u2019t click with me. In this book, it becomes especially apparent since most of the characters I loved in the first two books \u2013 Neal, Lalasa, Lord Wyldon, - appeared only for short periods of time, and the main focus was on Kel. Kel has a lot of fine qualities \u2013 her determination, her bravery, her faith in doing what is right, - but she has plenty of flaws as well. She is often being harsh and judgmental, especially if her expectations aren\u2019t met, and once she had her opinions on a person, she hardly ever changes it. I had that feeling in the back of my mind that Kel isn\u2019t exactly my type of hero for a while, but it was after this episode that my enjoyment of the book was dampened: Kel watched him [George] intently. She wanted to know why the Lioness had married this man, who wasn't even handsome, for all that he was well muscled for someone in his late forties. The only attractive thing about him was a pair of humorous hazel eyes. Nice eyes hardly seemed to Kel like grounds for marriage. Yes, Kel did just judge a person she barely met and barely interacted with by his appearance . When I read this I actually sat there dumbstruck for a minute or so. To make matters worse, Kel herself had been teased because of her not lady-like looks, and her father was described as average looking while her mother as very beautiful. One would think that Kel of all people would know that there is more to a person than their appearance. To make it worse, Kel is becoming such a hypocrite on her own. She keeps a grudge against King Jonathan for not letting her become a page without a test, and she doesn\u2019t let herself see all his other qualities - to her, it doesn\u2019t matter that he can\u2019t just change laws with a wave of his hand and that he is one of the best rulers you can find. She feels bad when forced to attend execution of some bandits \u2013 but wishes the worst kind of punishment for the kidnappers of Lalasa, even though their fault wasn\u2019t as grave. Besides, I find it severely unfair how everyone praises Kel for what she had accomplished, thus unwillingly belittling all the other heroes before her, and that goes from both the readers and the characters inside the series. \u201cYes,\u201d the King's Champion said firmly. \u201cI had the magic, don't you see, and the hand of the Goddess on me. Everyone could and did say I was a freak, one of those once-a-century people. No one else needs to strive for what I did, because they couldn't reach it.\u201d Alanna smiled crookedly. \u201cBut you, bless you, you are real. Those girls watched you, and talked about your style in the saddle, and the things you did. They swore they'd take up archery, or riding, or Shang combat, because you had shown them it was all right.\u201d So, did Alanna just say that she got her shield easy? Despite the fact that she never used magic to cheat or provide herself an advantage, despite her discovering she didn\u2019t have talent for swordfight and still working daily on it with sword way too heavy for her, despite her being bullied so hard that she once had her right arm broken \u2013 and despite her keeping training and learning to swordfight with her left arm? Does that cost so little now? As for Kel setting an example for other girls, what about Thayet and Buri\u2019s Queen\u2019s Riders, a group of fighters dedicated to protecting the citizens of Tortall that accept both men and women alike? They were led by the Queen herself \u2013 how is that not an example that you can become whatever you want to? So, what else was in this book for me to love? Amazing new characters? Not exactly \u2013 even though Kel joins the King\u2019s Own, the force of the King\u2019s soldiers, as Lord Raoul\u2019s squire, hardly any of the men get a good focus, leave alone development. Domitan or just Dom, Neal\u2019s cousin, is featured more, but even after the whole book we know nothing of him save that he has beautiful blue eyes and warm smile. Examples of Thayet, Buri, Onua, Lalasa and others show us that Tamora Pierce can write a good, multidimensional character in the span of one book, so not having any insight in Dom was a disappointment. In fact, I think that Lerant, Raoul\u2019s standard-bearer that was jealous of Kel for \u2018replacing\u2019 him and developed a rivalry with her, was a better and more interesting character. Some more characters were introduced when an envoy of the Yamani Islands arrived in Tortall, bringing with them Princess Shinkokami, betrothed to prince Roald, and Yukimi, Kel\u2019s old friend. They both were good characters, even if they didn\u2019t win my heart, and Yuki and (view spoiler) [Neal (hide spoiler) ] make such an amazing couple. It\u2019s Yamani culture itself that I have problem with. It\u2019s not unusual to base fantastic countries on real cultures \u2013 but before, Tamora Pierce would always add her own twist to it, making the new culture different and unique. For example, the Bazhir are basically Bedouin nomads, but their city of Persopolis, their shamans and the custom of the Voice makes them stand out, and Carthak is such an unusual and curious mix of African and Indian. But Yamani culture is basically Japanese one without any originality, except for the strong warrior culture that requires both men and women to know how to fight due to frequent Scanran raids. I didn\u2019t see anything interesting or new in Yamanis, and I wasn\u2019t invested in learning more about their country because it was so generic, and that was a pity. Still, there were things for me to love \u2013 enough to raise the rating so highly. A lot of that has to do with the old characters I loved, especially the ones from the first series \u2013 Raoul, Buri, Alanna and others. Raoul and the King\u2019s Own have a big role to play in this book, and it\u2019s good. Raoul is an awesome mentor figure to Kel, and he is such a likable character on his own. It was very good to see Buri again, though I wish we had more insight into (view spoiler) [her relationship with Raoul (hide spoiler) ] , though it was good enough as it was. And I\u2019m very grateful for another side of knighthood that this book showed me: Alanna the Lioness was a lone hero who could afford herself to ride out into sunset looking for adventures and searching for artifacts. Raoul and the King\u2019s Own are more closely connected with the people of Tortall, and it is their duty to protect them, a task that can involve both blood and steel, like fighting off bandits, - and more prosaic sweat and mud of hunting for local villages and pulling down buildings after earthquakes. Plus, there was that one side of Kel\u2019s character development that I absolutely loved: her budding romance with (view spoiler) [Cleon (hide spoiler) ] . Tamora Pierce really portrayed that mutual awkwardness, the light sweet romance and the mixed feeling of the first love masterfully. I just like how surprised and confused Kel was when she realized (view spoiler) [Cleon (hide spoiler) ] likes her and that she really likes him back! Also, I certainly love the way (view spoiler) [Cleon (hide spoiler) ] treats their relationship seriously and doesn\u2019t push Kel into something she doesn\u2019t wish. There are still some obstacles between them in the end, but I do hope they find a way for it to work out. And let\u2019s not forget about the ending! It builds up slowly \u2013 Raoul and Kel are called up to protect the northern borders of Tortall against Scanrans, but the threat is considered to be no more serious than usual raiding bands that are almost regularly sent by Scanra. Until it becomes clear that something more is involved, as usually disconnected Scanran clans are unified and something that was never seen before enters the battle \u2013 and Tortall has to prepare for this new challenge. But regardless of what would happen next, the world is going to change\u2026 ...more Third in the Protector of the Small series within the overall Tortall series. It revolves around Keladry of Mindelan, the second girl in the kingdom who wants to become a knight. My Take Parents, you really do want your girls to read this whole series. It promotes equality for girls and boys and shows the pluses and minuses of one's reception when pursuing a dream. There are good and bad people in this series, just as there is in real life and Pierce provides plenty of examples of some good ways t Third in the Protector of the Small series within the overall Tortall series. It revolves around Keladry of Mindelan, the second girl in the kingdom who wants to become a knight. My Take Parents, you really do want your girls to read this whole series. It promotes equality for girls and boys and shows the pluses and minuses of one's reception when pursuing a dream. There are good and bad people in this series, just as there is in real life and Pierce provides plenty of examples of some good ways to meet the challenge. The empathy and friendship between Kel and her animals, her friends is just lovely. I do love Kel's twirling her glaive to demonstrate her abilities to Raoul and Flyn---Flyn is a bit gobsmacked by its weight, especially after seeing Kel manipulate it so easily. There's a very nice treatment of alcoholism in this. Very subtle, but it comes through. Kel's romance with Cleon becomes a bit fraught. It'll be interesting to see how it develops in Lady Knight . The most critical point, at least from Alanna's point of view, is that little girls throughout the kingdom are asking questions about becoming pages themselves. Kel is showing them that girls can do this. And we have the opportunity to see some of Kel's future command skills appear. The Story It's a busy four years for Kel. The knight who has taken her under his wing is in demand all over the kingdom fighting battles, brokering treaties and trade agreements, rescuing and rebuilding villages destroyed by nature or man. And Kel is soaking it up, learning for all she's worth, fighting in tourneys as the more conservative knights try to prove her lack of worth. And through it all, Raoul of Goldenlake supports Kel with advice, training, and simple approval. It's her actions that prove her worth. A worth that simply becomes more obvious when some of the bullies of her page years don't survive the Chamber. When her skill proves her merit. The knights of the King's Own slowly come to approve of The Girl and what she learns in the Chamber on her night of nights will confirm that worth. The Characters Keladry \"Kel\" of Mindelan is growing in leaps and bounds and has advanced to being a squire. Now if someone will just choose The Girl\u2026! Jump and the sparrows also become a part of Kel's new unit along with Peachblossom and she gets a second horse, Hoshi . Her old friends include Nealan \" Neal \" of Queenscove who's horrified to learn who wants him as a squire. Other friends include Seaver , Cleon of Kennan of the poetic address is her brother Innes' squire and the truth about his attraction to Kel is finally out in the open, Merric of Hollyrose, Faleron of Kin's Reach, Esmond of Nicoline, Prince Roald , Owen of Jesslaw, Iden of Vikison Lake, and Warric of Mandash. Raoul of Goldenlake and Malorie's Peak, knight and Knight Commander of the King's Own Guard likes how Kel handles herself and he appreciates her knowledge of the language and customs of the Yamani Court. He's very anti-formal occasions---for a very particular reason---and quite easygoing with his men. It's that anti- bit that grates King Jonathan. Good thing there are so many jokers and pranksters in the Own. Captain Flyndon Whiteford is in charge of Third Command in the King's Own and second-in-command to Raoul. Buriram Tourakom is the commander of the Queen's Riders. Qasim ibn Zirhud is a corporal in Volorin 's squad. Domitan of Masbolle is one of Neal's cousins and is an instant friend. Sergeant Osbern is another friend. Some of the men who are very anti-The Girl including Lerant of Eldorne and Captain Glaisdan of Haryse, the Commander of First Company. Old enemies include Joren of Stone Mountain and his cronies Vinson of Genlith, Zahir ibn Alhaz who seems to be moving past this childishness, Garvey of Runnerspring has been taken on by Sir Jerel , and Quinden . One of whom goes on trial for soliciting Lalasa's kidnapping. Several of whom don't survive the Chamber. It may not have been instant, but Karma certainly got 'em. Baron Piers and Ilane are her parents. Adalia and Oranie are her older sisters. Innes is her second oldest brother and he takes Cleon on as his squire. Alanna the Lioness finally appears at Court and attends the Grand Progress with her husband George Cooper , Baron of Pirate's Swoop. Lord Wyldon is the training master in charge of the school and discovers faults within himself. Lalasa opens her sewing shop and is in high demand. Master Oakbridge comes along on the grand progress in his position as the master of ceremonies. Numair Salmal\u00edn has a cameo mention. Duke Turomot of Wellam was the judge for Kel's page testing and he is the presiding judge for the kidnapping trial. His sense of honor causes him to offer his services to Lord Raoul on the night. Sir Myles is still the spymaster. Daine the Wildmage is quite useful when Kel rescues a baby griffin. Q ueen Thayet and King Jonathan give Kel a peek at the checks and balances required in running a kingdom. Thayet is particularly interested in the Yamani fighting skills as practiced by the women! In Kel's four years of squire training, she meets a wide variety of people and Immortals: Chief Graystreak is the nasty centaur who tried to weasel while his brother Maresgift and the rest and several human cronies Macorn and Gavan are Kel's first experience with execution. Fortunately, the centaurs who came to help track them down were much nicer with better sense! You'll love how Peachblossom and Raoul's horse Drum helps out on this first mission! The Yamani Entourage: Her Imperial Highness Princess Shinkokami \"Shinko\" is Prince Roald's new betrothed---and Kel's childhood friend Cricket---while her attendants include Lady Yukimi noh Daiomoru \"Yuki\" , and Lady Haname . Prince and Princess Eitaro are nominally in charge. Kel is worried when Prince Roald and Princess Shinko don't appear to have anything to say to each other until she comes up with a brilliant plan. The Cover and Title The cover is shades of green and focuses on Kel's chest where she appears to have scraps from a galvanized bucket wrapped around her torso and acting as straps over her shoulders. I do like the choice of fonts for the author's name and the title, providing a cleanly Gothic touch. The title is the chronology as it covers Kel's years of being a Squire . ...more It's feminist, it's fantasy, and its alternately funny or full of feelings. What's not to love? I also find it a lot easier to relate to the characters when their older- while I enjoyed the first two books of Kel's series, and indeed Alanna's as well, having them grow up and encounter adult situations and choices is a lot more interesting that their exploits as a child. Reasons why this book rocks: 1. Periods are something that almost all teenage girls have to deal with. And when you're an ass-kick It's feminist, it's fantasy, and its alternately funny or full of feelings. What's not to love? I also find it a lot easier to relate to the characters when their older- while I enjoyed the first two books of Kel's series, and indeed Alanna's as well, having them grow up and encounter adult situations and choices is a lot more interesting that their exploits as a child. Reasons why this book rocks: 1. Periods are something that almost all teenage girls have to deal with. And when you're an ass-kicking knight-in-training, this can be a tad inconvenient. Pierce doesn't shy away from the fact that yes, our heroine is a girl who gets periods and she has to deal with them accordingly. The only other fantasy book that I can think of offhand that deals with this is Throne of Glass. 2. Kel is passionate about helping other people. Injustice gets her riled, and she simply cannot stand people/animals being mistreated, and sets about rectifying unfair situations as much as it is in her power to do so. She also manages to do this WITHOUT being a Mary Sue. Passive and goody-two shoes she is not. \"The world is imperfect, Kel. But you do more than your share to set things right. Next tine, report it. Even if nothing is done because the one reported is too powerful, a record is made. When he does it again, the record will show he won't stop. 3. It's political. The right decisions are not always good decisions, or popular decisions, and vice versa. Political manuovering is essential for stability, but is not always savoury. Kel wasn't surprised. She didn't think much of the man, though she had to admit he was a good king. Maybe her father was right, and good kings weren't always good men. & \"Change the law, the king repeated. \"Squire, what do you think her majesty and I have done ever since we took the thrones? No, don't answer - I dread to think what you might have the courage to say...The problem is that monarchs who wish to live until their grandchildren are born do not hand down any law they like.\" 4. Mentorship. (view spoiler) [ Raoul (hide spoiler) ] is a fantastic mentor for Kel - he genuinely respects her abilities, cares for her and stands up for her. He also recognises the double standards that exist, and tries to mitigate these for Kel. \"Nobody makes men surrender private life when they take up arms, Kel,\" Raoul said, filling their cups. \"We only ask that such lives happen off duty. It's more complicated for women. It's not fair, but I think you already know the world isn't.\" 5. Feminist! Women who have control over their own bodies! Sex as something enjoyable and on your own terms! Sex education! Birth control! \"Our families are so determined to keep their bloodlines pure that they insist their daughters remain virgins before marriage, poor things. You don't see that nonsense in the middle and lower classes. They know a women's body belongs to herself and the Goddess, and that's the end of it...Perhaps you should see a healer,\" Ilane suggested. \"Get a charm to keep you from pregnancy, until you're certain you'd like to be a mother. Then, if you do get carried away, you can surrender to your feelings.\" Ilane grinned wickedly. \"Goddess knows your father and I did.\" 6. Snark! Comebacks! Burrrrrrrn! \"Yield,\" she advised, her voice even. Or I carve my initial right there.\" He raised gauntleted hands. \"I yield.\" Kel smiled coldly. \"And they say conservatives can't learn.\" 7. Kel is strong, certainly, but she's not infallible. Or magical. She has to work for every bit of strength and muscle and stamina, and while she does well, she also doesn't win all of her battles or challenges. And Kel herself knows this. Kel's mouth popped open when she read her opponent's name. \"You'd better see the coffin maker and order me a box,\" she told Cleon as he threw a stick for Jump to chase. 8. It tells it like it is. \"You're an idealist, Kel. I've noticed that about you. See, I try to beat idealism out of Rider trainees. It just ruins their ability to give a fair report. So long as there are nobles and commoners, the wealthy and the poor, those with power will be heard, and those without ignored. That's the world.\" 9. Kel may be tough, but she still has feelings. And crushes. And insecurities. She had decided years before that she was no prize on the romance market. Being away from Cleon for so long, she forgot the things about herself that made him like her. ...more The Protector of the Small series is by far my favorite series, among Pierce's works and the genre overall, and among the quartet, Squire is definitely the best. The entire series is focused on morality, on the choices people make, and the kinds of people they become, and a lot of it comes to a head in Squire. Kel relies not on magic, destiny, and luck, like the enjoyably far-fetched Song of the Lioness and Immortals quartets, but on determination, hard work, patience, and a strong moral compass The Protector of the Small series is by far my favorite series, among Pierce's works and the genre overall, and among the quartet, Squire is definitely the best. The entire series is focused on morality, on the choices people make, and the kinds of people they become, and a lot of it comes to a head in Squire. Kel relies not on magic, destiny, and luck, like the enjoyably far-fetched Song of the Lioness and Immortals quartets, but on determination, hard work, patience, and a strong moral compass. Unlike Alanna, my second favorite Pierce heroine, her reasons for choosing to become a knight aren't glory and great deeds, but a desire to defend herself and others. To learn how to stand up for herself and others, and even if she doesn't make it, then at least she'll know more than when she started. I recently reread the series for the first time in several years, and it's amazing how different things stick out to me now, than when I first read the books as a pre-teen. (Spoilers) I went into my reread remembering Neal, and the sparrows, and her glaive practice, and her fear of heights, and I came out with a new appreciation for the hard morals in the story. I remember now Lord Wyldon's shame and regret for his unfairness during her page years, and Joren and Vincent's, I remember Commander Buri discussing the executions at Irontown and how just because something is necessary doesn't mean it's enjoyable, or that it gets easier, or that it should get easier, because taking a life should never be easy. I remember the death of her sparrows at Persopolis, and now having lived through the death of several pets I can relate more to the sad fact that the worst thing about pets is that they rarely live as long as we do. Squire focuses largely on duty, honor, and what it takes to do what is right instead of what is easy. From stubbornly unfair conservatives going out of their way to oppose girls becoming knights, to stubbornly fair conservatives like the old Lord Magistrate keeping watch all night with her in the Chamber of the Ordeal to ensure no one could claim her Ordeal of Knighthood was tampered with, there is variety and reality in the characters, the situations, and their choices. As a pre-teen Squire gave me faith that people like Kel could fight through harsh opinions and sexism to achieve their dreams, and it also gave me faith that even people like Lord Wyldon, not necessarily bad people, but stubborn, prejudiced people, could change their minds. This is the kind of book I wish everyone, young and old, male and female, would read. ...more The Good: Squire is my favorite book of the series so far, this one was great. I fell right into the story just surrounded with the plot. I liked the character relationships that developed between Raoul and one of the Riders [I forgot her name, starts with a B:]. A friend from Kel's past comes to visit in an interesting way bringing others as well. Then there is the romance that begins with a certain someone who is a year ahead of her, or is it two, not so sure. Some of the bully crew gets what The Good: Squire is my favorite book of the series so far, this one was great. I fell right into the story just surrounded with the plot. I liked the character relationships that developed between Raoul and one of the Riders [I forgot her name, starts with a B:]. A friend from Kel's past comes to visit in an interesting way bringing others as well. Then there is the romance that begins with a certain someone who is a year ahead of her, or is it two, not so sure. Some of the bully crew gets what is coming to them and the Ordeal is on everyone's mind. Just so many colorful scenes in this book and wow, I was blown away I guess. Kel has changed some [who am I kidding, she changes a lot:]. Not only physically but mentally as well, she now understands that other women and girls look up to her. She wants her shield still that is for sure, Raoul often asks her if she is sure, she wants to do this, which is funny really. We also get a look into the harsh politics of the Realm as Kel witnesses them first hand and deals with it too! The Bad: I did not like that Joren was killed off, but then again he was an arsehole. I would have wanted him to be like the climax, and that Kel killed his gnarly arse. That other person [?:], well I am fine that the Ordeal got to him for hurting those women. It was pretty graphic too. And the Random: I like the Imani fan dancing, and the explanation for why they carry the fans, and then when Neil asks for Yuki's fan after the Ordeal, I wonder what all that was about? Very intriguing. This book was longer than the other two and I am not one against it, it was a great read. ...more This is confirming my conviction that Kel would stand up to rereading. This is a delight. I'd somehow forgotten that Raoul is Kel's knight sponsor (RAOUL). This one is five stars because it just works. I'm not going to be able to explain it more than that. Everything about it just works. I adore Raoul as knight master. He's the teacher Kel always needed. I love that she's to be a Commander in training. I love his relationship with Kel. Just as I love her relationship with the Yammani women, having This is confirming my conviction that Kel would stand up to rereading. This is a delight. I'd somehow forgotten that Raoul is Kel's knight sponsor (RAOUL). This one is five stars because it just works. I'm not going to be able to explain it more than that. Everything about it just works. I adore Raoul as knight master. He's the teacher Kel always needed. I love that she's to be a Commander in training. I love his relationship with Kel. Just as I love her relationship with the Yammani women, having contemporaries while being in one of these stories, I enjoy it. (view spoiler) [I am pleased that Joren finally gets his commeupance. And the scenes between Kel and Wyldan are a delight. I adore the scene where she goes to him because she finds out he quit. Such a great character moment for both of them. (hide spoiler) ] Also, to go with my RAOUL. I would also like to offer a MYLES (Myles is the best). And a BURI. Because they are all awesomesauce. Oh, and Cleon's pet names are a delight. Favourite might be \"my sunrise.\" Everything about this is good, in other words. (view spoiler) [The final scene between Kel and Alanna, YES. That is great. Top aces there. Kel being given command in battle. Also excellent. I love how that arc is developed. I love that we get to see Kel learn. (hide spoiler) ] The only slight flaw is that the animal thing feels a little like TP wanted to combine Alanna and Daine. It's a bit weird. The whole \"Protector of the Small\" thing does save it though. To sum up, I thoroughly enjoyed this on reread. ...more This book is everything a YA fantasy novel should be, and Tamora Pierce is a goddess. Tamora Pierce's Tortall books were incredibly important to my growing up years. I just finished my semi-annual reread, during which I end up spending quite a bit of time debating which book/series/heroine is the best. The answer is, it's this one. This is the best book in the best series following the best heroine in Tortall. It's more complex than earlier books, but still has a lovely sense of exuberance and n This book is everything a YA fantasy novel should be, and Tamora Pierce is a goddess. Tamora Pierce's Tortall books were incredibly important to my growing up years. I just finished my semi-annual reread, during which I end up spending quite a bit of time debating which book/series/heroine is the best. The answer is, it's this one. This is the best book in the best series following the best heroine in Tortall. It's more complex than earlier books, but still has a lovely sense of exuberance and newness, as Kel is venturing into a new job and kind of into a new world as well. Kel learns new things! She gets overwhelmed! She gives advice to little girls! She SHOWS THE HATERS. She talks about birth control and consent with her mom! She continues to be not charmed by Jonathan! She fights a scary monster! She grows into her own as a leader! She code-switches! Seriously, it's the best. The Kel/Raoul relationship is at the heart of most of the action, which I love. They both have other relationships, of course, but it's nice to read a book that revolves around a different kind of relationship (as opposed to a romantic or family relationship). It's not really like anything else in YA. (If you are reading this review and you haven't read any of Ms. Pierce's books, don't start with this one. Start at the beginning of a series-- any series! They are all great!--and you will probably get sucked in and end up reading all of them.) ...more Overall, great book. Love the way Kel takes agency, love that her Knight Master treats her well, love that sexist idiots get just punishments. One thing. Kel blames herself (and Lalasa partly) for not reporting Vinson. Kel reasons that had Vinson been reported, he would not assault and rape other girls. I think that's a really harmful portrayal of abusers, and if there are girls reading it who chose not to report their abusers, there is a chance they'd be retriggered in their self-blame spiral. T Overall, great book. Love the way Kel takes agency, love that her Knight Master treats her well, love that sexist idiots get just punishments. One thing. Kel blames herself (and Lalasa partly) for not reporting Vinson. Kel reasons that had Vinson been reported, he would not assault and rape other girls. I think that's a really harmful portrayal of abusers, and if there are girls reading it who chose not to report their abusers, there is a chance they'd be retriggered in their self-blame spiral. The thing is, in real life, sexual abusers do not get easily convicted. Regardless of them being reported, victims have a hard time reporting them for a myriad of reasons (Lalasa was a pretty accurate portrayal of that). Regardless of if they report their abuser or not, it is not the fault of the victim of the abuser commits another crime. I really didn't like how that aspect of the story was handled. Other than that, Squire is an overall great read. I think it's..... interesting that though Tortall is expanding and there's so much war etc going on, as yet I have yet to see a nuanced discussion of empire building (colonialism, and neo colonialism/imperialism anyone?). Still, if intended as an empowerment book for young girls, it goes pretty well. ...more The world opens up a little bit as we follow Kel into her years as a squire. She has a bit of angst at the beginning figuring out who she'll be squired to, but everything works out well for her, and over the course of the book, Kel's aptitude for fighting, making friends, and defending the downtrodden emerge more and more. Additionally, her capabilities as a trustworthy leader are showing up, even though she doesn't have some of the inborn special qualities of other heroines in this world (the m The world opens up a little bit as we follow Kel into her years as a squire. She has a bit of angst at the beginning figuring out who she'll be squired to, but everything works out well for her, and over the course of the book, Kel's aptitude for fighting, making friends, and defending the downtrodden emerge more and more. Additionally, her capabilities as a trustworthy leader are showing up, even though she doesn't have some of the inborn special qualities of other heroines in this world (the magics of Alanna and Daine). I had a very strong sense in this book of how much Kel is being developed as a contrast to Alanna. She's steady, and thoughtful, and controls her emotions even in situations where it would be very hard to do so. She watches and listens and learns from those around her, and her commitment to her charges never wavers. I liked watching her sphere of influence widen over time, as she wins more and more people over, even those not originally disposed to approve of her. It's fun watching a different-than-usual fantasy heroine navigate the landscape of her world and succeed on her own terms. ...more Delightful and full of excellent nuances, but compared to the first two books in the series this felt a little transitional, wrapping up plots from the first two books and setting us up for the big finale. Still, onward! I'll be sad when Kel's story comes to an end. 3rd REad 12/17/2016 2nd Read: 7/24/2015 Original Read: 11/21/12 This is the first Tamora Pierce book I read. I was in seventh grade, and my friend had this book with a cool-looking cover, and I'd read snatches over her shoulder, and then I went to the library and found out that Tamora Pierce had a tremendous back catalog. And that's how it all started. I love this book. Always have. I'm about to ask a whole bunch of worldbuilding questions, but still: I love this. I love Kel - I love Raoul - I love how busy she is as a squire - I think this story is great. On This is the first Tamora Pierce book I read. I was in seventh grade, and my friend had this book with a cool-looking cover, and I'd read snatches over her shoulder, and then I went to the library and found out that Tamora Pierce had a tremendous back catalog. And that's how it all started. I love this book. Always have. I'm about to ask a whole bunch of worldbuilding questions, but still: I love this. I love Kel - I love Raoul - I love how busy she is as a squire - I think this story is great. Onto the questions. At the end of the hall stood a pair of wooden doors carved with a sun, the symbol of Mithros, god of law and war. They were ancient, the surfaces around the sun curved deep after centuries of polishing. Alright. Where did the Chamber come from? Why is it so old? What does it have to do with Mithros? Why is only Tortall favored with this weird little room? And how old is this country - and this palace - anyway? Generations of squires had entered it to experience something. None told what they saw; they were forbidden to speak of it. Why are they forbidden? How long has Tortall been stuck in the medieval age? Who makes these rules? NEAL. I love Neal. I had no idea how much until this reread. One thing I especially appreciated this time around is how well-connected he is, and how little that matters to him: his father is buddies with the king (obviously, he's the king's healer), and he and Alanna and the king all assure Neal that Kel is getting a great offer. You know, a typical fall afternoon, just him, Alanna, and the king. NEAL IS SUCH A GOOD FRIEND. And the way this palace connives and conspires is hilarious to me. RAOUL. The first reason I love Raoul is because he doesn't approach Kel simply because he thinks she deserves a shot, because she's a girl and so many want her to fail. He might think that - he knows women can fight; he's friends with Alanna - but he takes her on because of her Yamani connections. And he asked Wyldon and Sir Myles for references. He's taking her seriously as a person. Love that. \"When people say a knight's job is all glory, I laugh, and laugh, and laugh,\" he said. \"Often I can stop laughing before they edge away and talk about soothing drinks.\" That's an iconic Pierce line. I've found that memorable for a looong time now. I love that little tidbit Raoul shares, about the cost of Kel's gifted weapons - but if Raven Armory is so expensive and people pass pieces down to their kids, how does the place stay in business? (And the implication is that Raoul doesn't use Raven Armory, which would surprise me, since a) he's rich and b) Alanna does. Or maybe the reference to Lerant was just as a comparison to Kel, who hasn't been financially compensated for anything by the king. Yet.) I love that Raoul and Kel actually joust; everyone's reactions are priceless. I love that Raoul mentioned that wooden ring Wyldon had Kel practice on. Then there's the trial. First: Joren gets to saunter in when he wants, leave when he wants, and insult everyone. Yeahhhhh. Pierce is good at this country's class system. Second: Kel requesting an audience with the king, right then when she's furious, and in public where he can't refuse her, is so smart. So is Raoul, for pointing out that she shouldn't actually confront them in public: \"If you make them look bad in front of those who should fear and obey them, they get nasty. Jonathan's a good enough sort as kings go, but that doesn't go far.\" Okay: YIKES. True, and practical, but they're been friends for decades!!! YIKES. And then, of course, Jonathan and Thayet are great, and totally acknowledge that Kel is right. I love that they point out how hard it is to get laws changed. I even like that Jon demands she swear not to challenge Joren. Jon's a really good king here. Anyway, afterward, when they're analyzing, Raoul points out that Jon got more complicated since he was a page. I love Raoul - but thank you, Captain Obvious. Yes, Jon's gotten more complicated since the time he was fourteen and not running the kingdom. If anything, it's Raoul who's kept himself in a more simple, protect-the-people, good vs. evil environment. He isn't governing. Maybe it's a little more complicated, though, because Jon does show up at Raoul's tent, in the company of his advisors, to get Raoul's advice. We only see it once, when Wyldon resigns - but still. (I do like that they all respect Wyldon's skill, and that they don't keep him around begrudgingly, to appease conservatives. NUANCE.) And obviously they have behind-the-scenes meetings, too, like after Glasdain dies, when Raoul basically says \"I told you so\" to Jon. Hmmmm. I still think Raoul is only involved militarily, and he doesn't really understand the burden of balancing the peasants and the merchants and the priests and the nobility. More on the Chamber, because it keeps coming up: \"You need a certain amount of, oh, flexibility, to face the Chamber of the Ordeal. You have to know when to bend. We're about to find out that the Chamber is basically the inspiration for Divergent, meaning a room that forces you to face your fears. How is flexibility relevant? And also, how did Duke Gareth lose a finger in there? \"The Chamber is...\" He fell silent, shadows in his eyes, though he continued to stitch. \"Hard,\" he said at last. \"It's not that it's merciless. To have mercy or to lack it, you need humanity. The Chamber hasn't got it.\" This is a great point, and also: still have no idea what this has to do with fears. Quick digression: I love love love Roald and Shinkokami's story, and I want tons more of them. THEY ARE SO GREAT. Second quick digression: Why is Alanna at Midwinter, chatting with the king? When did they make up? BACK TO THE CHAMBER. Vinson is repaid with every bruise he's ever doled out. Joren actually dies. Am I supposed to take the non-scariness of Kel's ordeal as a compliment to her, a reflection of her blameless life - instead of as a complete reduction of the Chamber's impact? Joren dies. Duke Gareth loses a finger. And Kel is confronted with heights and not knowing what to do. It's a big letdown. Raoul after Joren dies is very impressive, btw. AND BURI. GOSH I LOVE THEM. Kel, you matchmaker, you. Still not a fan of the way the animals are used as a barometer of people's decency. This is a technique stolen from Enid Blyton and Kiki the parrot, and I didn't like it there, either. Kel gets to meet the people. All sorts. Peasants and little kids and really famous military heroes. (It's interesting to me, how long Raoul and Buri and Co. have managed to stay famous and active and effective.) She even meets Evin Larse, still with the Riders. HI, EVIN. I love that this is what she remembers when she meditates before her ordeal. This is what matters - to her, and to Raoul, and to Jon and Thayet. They all express it differently, but they all spend their lives in service. They're all dedicated and smart and caring. This book cares about people. That's probably the main reason I love it. ...more Kel\u2019s years as a squire help to build upon all of her many adventures in First Test and Page. Although her one epic battle (which every main character really requires) doesn\u2019t get revealed until the very end of this novel, the entire journey to this point is full of twists and turns. Her position as the King\u2019s Own Squire and new friendships help to weave a new tale of a life full of learning, hard work and joy. Although Joren still makes numerous appearances throughout the tale, and his true moti Kel\u2019s years as a squire help to build upon all of her many adventures in First Test and Page. Although her one epic battle (which every main character really requires) doesn\u2019t get revealed until the very end of this novel, the entire journey to this point is full of twists and turns. Her position as the King\u2019s Own Squire and new friendships help to weave a new tale of a life full of learning, hard work and joy. Although Joren still makes numerous appearances throughout the tale, and his true motivations remain hidden (at least until about halfway through the novel), it quickly becomes evident that he isn\u2019t the arch nemesis of the series. Instead, it is the brewing war with Scanra that takes centre-stage. That\u2019s not to say that Kel doesn\u2019t continue to experience the prejudice and judgement which comes with being a woman pursuing a career that is generally considered a \u201cman\u2019s job\u201d. But, it is something, that has become a background in the storyline. After all, a quartet can\u2019t continuously hash over the same issues \u2013 eventually they will settle down in real life, and the same can be said for this storyline. Kel also begins her first romance throughout this story. And, as is politely pointed out to her, there will be judgement. Where men are able to publicly pursue their relations, she is again forced to toe the line. It is this constant reminder of the double standards that we as women face that makes this story (and indeed, series) so poignant. These double standards are faced in our everyday lives and I love the way in which Kel is able to stoically accept this, work around it, and move on with her life. There is never any fuss, just a simple acceptance. ...more<---C>Tamora Pierce</---C>", "Title": "Squire"},
