{"Comments": "Current leader of the pack in \"most frustrating book of 2014\". VanderMeer creates a fascinating, grotesque, brilliantly detailed world and then spends the entire book focused on the incessant navel-gazing of the most boring person in it: \"The Biologist\", so aggressively dull that she never even gets a name.<---F> She's not underdeveloped: far from it</---F>. In fact, we spend half the fucking book learning everything about her life and what has brought her to this place. It's just that all that information is Current leader of the pack in \"most frustrating book of 2014\". VanderMeer creates a fascinating, grotesque, brilliantly detailed world and then spends the entire book focused on the incessant navel-gazing of the most boring person in it: \"The Biologist\", so aggressively dull that she never even gets a name. She's not underdeveloped: far from it. In fact, we spend half the fucking book learning everything about her life and what has brought her to this place. It's just that all that information is really, really fucking boring. If I met her at a party, I'd pretend I was going to get drinks, then go find The Accountant or The Sewer Worker or The Pig Farmer and talk to them instead. We get it, dude. She is happy because science but she is sad because people. Her valium-snorting narration drags every action beat on for far too long and ruins any tension there might be. Here is an example that I am making up just now \"The dragon rose over the rooftops, then breathed fire on me. I caught alight and started to scream.\" vs \"The creature rose over the rooftops. It had wings,<---M> like a bird also has wings</---M>, which I note because I am a scientist who does science. The bones in the wings were much like the bones in other wings. They reminded me of the bones I found in the garden as a child, which belonged to a cat that had died. I had very little emotional response to those bones at the time because even then I was a scientist doing science. From its mouth came a jet of flame. What fueled it? Was it some sort of organic compound held in a sack beneath its mouth, ignited by a spark created when it rubbed its teeth against its SCIENCEWORD SCIENCEWORD? The flames consumed me. It made me sad, but not as sad as when I got into a fight with my husband this one time. My husband was not a scientist, which means he did not do science.\" She has no agency, no drive, and a weak pseudo-motivation that she whines constantly about but never actually acts on until the final paragraph of the book. This book was a huge slog, but it makes me even angrier because of how good it could've been if the author switched out the characters' Valium for Prozac. ...more \u201d...but whether it decays under the earth or above on green fields, or out to sea or in the very air, all shall come to revelation, and to revel, in the knowledge of the strangling fruit and the hand of the sinner shall rejoice, for there is no sin in shadow or in light that the seeds of the dead cannot forgive\u2026\u201d An Anthropologist, a Surveyor, a Psychologist, and a Biologist, all female, make up the 12th expedition to AREA X . The expeditions that have come to this region before have not fared we \u201d...but whether it decays under the earth or above on green fields, or out to sea or in the very air, all shall come to revelation, and to revel, in the knowledge of the strangling fruit and the hand of the sinner shall rejoice, for there is no sin in shadow or in light that the seeds of the dead cannot forgive\u2026\u201d An Anthropologist, a Surveyor, a Psychologist, and a Biologist, all female, make up the 12th expedition to AREA X . The expeditions that have come to this region before have not fared well. They have disappeared. They have come home mere shells of themselves and died of cancer. They have turned on one another and killed each other. There is a reason why the expedition members are only known by their field of expertise. \u201dI had not seen a name or heard a name spoken aloud for months, and seeing one now bothered me deeply. It seemed wrong, as if it did not belong to AREA X. A name was a dangerous luxury here. Sacrifice didn\u2019t need names. People who served a function didn\u2019t need to be named. In all ways, the name was a further an unwanted confusion to me, a dark space that kept growing and growing in my mind.\u201d It does make you wonder why someone would volunteer knowing the outcomes of the previous missions. The problem is AREA X keeps expanding and there is a growing concern that it will continue to encroach on the rest of the world. The expeditions, though unsuccessful, must be achieving something. Our narrator is the Biologist. We find out as the story continues that her husband had volunteered to go on the previous expedition. He had returned like the others with something essential missing inside. A part of her believes, as crazy as it seems, that the segment of him that is missing is still in AREA X somewhere. The area is also filled with unlikely plants, insects, and as it turns out one species that doesn\u2019t belong anywhere. \u201dAs I adjusted to the light, the Crawler kept changing at a lightning pace, as if to mock my ability to comprehend it. It was a figure within a series of refracted panes of glass. It was a series of layers in the shape of an archway. It was a great sluglike monster ringed by satellites of even odder creatures. It was a glistening star. My eyes kept glancing off of it as if an optic nerve was not enough.\u201d What do you do when nothing makes sense? What do you do when the most basic sensory parts of yourself are not functioning properly? You process information and more gaps come up than explanations of something you desperately need to understand. \u201dWhat can you do when your five senses are not enough? Because I still couldn\u2019t truly see it here, any more than I had seen it under the microscope, and that\u2019s what scared me the most. Why couldn\u2019t I see it?\u201d She can feel the area changing her. She calls it \u201cthe brightness\u201d. She isn\u2019t sure what it is doing to her. She just knows she feels different. \u201dThere shall be a fire that knows your name, and in the presence of the strangling fruit, its dark flame shall acquire every part of you.\u201d There is a tower or is there a tunnel? The expedition members disagree about what to call it. A bit of a mind bend because one is decidedly different than the other. There is a lighthouse and signs of the previous expeditions are etched in the red splatter on the walls and the bullet holes in barricades. The Biologist finds evidence that the information they had been told was not just lies, but epic untruths. As the expedition gets smaller she becomes more and more desperate to understand why AREA X exists. \u201dWe all live in a kind of continuous dream, \u201c I told him (<---B>her husband</---B>). \u201cWhen we wake, it is because something, some event, some pinprick even, disturbs the edges of what we\u2019ve taken as reality.\u201d She needs a pinprick, a slice of reality, a garden variety truth that will realign her thoughts and allow her to understand something, anything. I\u2019ve read several Jeff Vandermeer books and been blown away each and every time. His vision is so unique; and his ability, as he does in this book, to have me holding my breath with each new revelation is startlingly, unnervingly, brilliant. He conceives the inconceivable and totally convinces you that it... can... exist. You shudder and shake for a few days and then after a few interesting nightmares you start to recover your equilibrium. Your mind has been permanently altered. You might feel a \u201cbrightness\u201d. You might start a journal, logging all these unusual thoughts that keep buzzing around in your head....like spores sliding down the slopes of your brain. You might even decide you need to volunteer for Expedition 13 as... The Reader. If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.com I also have a Facebook blogger page at: https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten ...more I am sure that it will shock to many readers my low rating of this popular novel, but sadly I think that it's the best way to express my own personal reading experience with the book. And I prefer to be honest than just giving a high rating if I don't believe on it. First of all, I don't hate the author and I am not looking for affecting the average rating of this novel. Basically, I had to balance the meaning of each rating here on Goodreads against what I thought about my reading experience with I am sure that it will shock to many readers my low rating of this popular novel, but sadly I think that it's the best way to express my own personal reading experience with the book. And I prefer to be honest than just giving a high rating if I don't believe on it. First of all, I don't hate the author and I am not looking for affecting the average rating of this novel. Basically, I had to balance the meaning of each rating here on Goodreads against what I thought about my reading experience with the novel, and I realized that I wasn't confortable even thinking on the book that \"I like it\" which it would imply a 3-stars rating, so at the end, I opted to give it a 2-star rating, but I don't enjoy to do it. Maybe I am not the ideal reader for this kind of stories. Maybe, while I am huge fan of science fiction, I am not ready to read \"weird fiction\" that it's the closest way to genre the novel. It wasn't the surreal elements since I am used to read and watch surreal material like Alan Moore's comic books or Luis Bu\u00f1uel's films. I think that my frustration with this particular novel was the inconclusive ending along with the knowledge that maybe some of the information on the story can be false and most of all, the lack of any single explanation of what the heck is going on. I understand that it's a trilogy, I get that it's a mystery, so the author can't explain all on the very first book, but I think that any novel has to bring some kind of closure on itself. Also, some explanations could be appreaciated. You don't have to explain everything but at least something. ...when you see beauty in desolation, it changes something in you. That's a quote from the book, and analyzing my general impression of the book, sadly I think that the novel was like a \"desolation\" to me. No explanations, unreliable facts and an abrupt ending. So, I suppose that I am still the same, since I didn't change and I still don't find \"beauty\" on \"desolation\". What I can appraise is the great writing style along with the smart and mature tone of the story. Please, if you are curious about the novel, read it, just like I did it. I really do hope that you can enjoy to the fullest this novel. No two people read the same book. So, while I couldn't find it as a possitive reading experience, maybe for you will be different and that it can be just awesome. ...more Really a waste of time. The book seems to be going for the eerie \"each man is every man\" type of feeling that you got from Cormac McCarthy's \"The Road,\" in which none of the characters have names. Here we have a small group of women, among them \"the psychologist,\" \"the surveyor,\" and \"the biolgist\" (our narrator) exploring Area X, a supernatural-type district that borders our own mundane world. I found myself completely uninvolved and not at all scared or disturbed by the team's discoveries. It Really a waste of time. The book seems to be going for the eerie \"each man is every man\" type of feeling that you got from Cormac McCarthy's \"The Road,\" in which none of the characters have names. Here we have a small group of women, among them \"the psychologist,\" \"the surveyor,\" and \"the biolgist\" (our narrator) exploring Area X, a supernatural-type district that borders our own mundane world. I found myself completely uninvolved and not at all scared or disturbed by the team's discoveries. It was far too cryptic. While less is often more (Michael Chabon - are you listening?), less is also often less. And so it is here. I was hoping for something gripping that would draw me into this mystery, but none of the hooks worked. While our protagonist does learn something about herself in the course of the (thankfully short) novel, her realizations leave no emotional impact. I will not be reading the sequels even tho they are being released by the publisher on an accelerated schedule. (NYT recently reported on this new publishing phenomenon of quick releasing of series. And this series is being published by FSG, usually known for quality books. Don't get it!). ...more FINE, FINE, FINE, I'm buying book 2. Really good books. Very different. Very atmospheric and different than anything else I've ever read. I read part of this trilogy off the page and listened to some of it on audiobook. And looking back, I wish I'd read the entire thing off the page. I think it would have been a better overall experience that way. Highly recommended. Four women, the twelfth such expedition, enter the mysterious Area X to observe and collect samples. Will the calamities that have befallen previous expeditions befall them as well? I'd read four <---A>Jeff VanderMeer</---A> books prior to this one and they were all unsettling in one way or another. This one was par from the course. <+++>Annihilation</+++> is a horror tale about secrecy, the unknown, and insanity. The biologist is the narrator and an unreliable one at that. The other characters are known only by their jo Four women, the twelfth such expedition, enter the mysterious Area X to observe and collect samples. Will the calamities that have befallen previous expeditions befall them as well? I'd read four Jeff VanderMeer books prior to this one and they were all unsettling in one way or another. This one was par from the course. <+++>Annihilation</+++> is a horror tale about secrecy, the unknown, and insanity. The biologist is the narrator and an unreliable one at that. The other characters are known only by their job function as well, giving the book a depersonalized feel. The story is more about mood and the character of the biologist than it is about exploration. This is one of those books that I have a hard time quantifying my feelings about. It was really strange and I was captivated by it but I'm not precisely sure I'd say I liked it. There were more than enough unanswered questions to make me want to read the next book in the series, however. With Annihilation, VanderMeer has crafted a creepy ass tale that would make H.P. Lovecraft shiver. Four out of five stars. ...more Well it seems like Annihilation has divided the SF community into two, lovers and 'meh'ers. I'm pretty sure I'm one of the latter. I have been trying to think why a novel with a blurb that instantly sparked my curiousity was just so bleh. There are parts here that I love. I think the whole novel was under a cloud of boring, grey fungus spores. While you have this wonderful premise of an expedition to a remote 'Area X' where the world is not quite right after some mysterious intervention from out Well it seems like Annihilation has divided the SF community into two, lovers and 'meh'ers. I'm pretty sure I'm one of the latter. I have been trying to think why a novel with a blurb that instantly sparked my curiousity was just so bleh. There are parts here that I love. I think the whole novel was under a cloud of boring, grey fungus spores. While you have this wonderful premise of an expedition to a remote 'Area X' where the world is not quite right after some mysterious intervention from outside, you also have this mystery clouded over by characters that are puppets, have no personality, are deliberately obfuscate and are entirely unreliable. What you end up with is what I liken to a biologist having a particularly vivid dream. And that is possibly one explanation for the story, but dreams are dreams and stories are better than dreams for a reason. This book is adorned in dream-like logic, with little attempt to try and convince the reader of any sense of a reality. You cannot anchor yourself to the situation or the characters. All are as frustratingly grey as each other. I think a great analogy of this reading experience is to compare it to the TV series \"Lost\". In a way on the surface they both share some similarities in their premises. But I'd say for those who do know the series is that this novel is awfully like the last season of Lost. Too much namby-pamby, no explanation weirdness that does not lead anywhere and is frustratingly obscure for what seems like the hell of it. OK I did find some redeeming features in here and I did find some parts great ( I did give it two stars because of this). There is some great imagination here. There is some wonderful imagery here. I just wish it was more connected and there was even one little ounce of effort to try and make it make sense. I have the second volume from the library also. I don't know if I'll carry on. ...more I am convinced now that I and the rest of the expedition were given access to these records for the simple reason that, for certain kinds of classified information, it did not matter what we knew or didn't know. There was only one logical conclusion: Experience told our superiors that few if any of us would be coming back. Area X is thought to be a myth. A conspiracy theory. Something whispered about in environmental circles. But it's real. Appearing 30 years ago and baffling everyone with its exi I am convinced now that I and the rest of the expedition were given access to these records for the simple reason that, for certain kinds of classified information, it did not matter what we knew or didn't know. There was only one logical conclusion: Experience told our superiors that few if any of us would be coming back. Area X is thought to be a myth. A conspiracy theory. Something whispered about in environmental circles. But it's real. Appearing 30 years ago and baffling everyone with its existence. The government has sent people - trained people, skilled people - to explore Area X and try to come up with some explanation for it. Those people have disappeared. Or died. Or killed themselves. Or murdered each other. Occasionally, they actually return from Area X, as pale pathetic shells of the people they once were, their personalities seemingly extracted by the unknown force which has claimed that part of the country and seems to be slowly advancing and widening. The main character is a biologist. She is part of Expedition 12, the government's 12th mission to Area X in a desperate attempt to find answers. She has no name - it was stripped from her in training. She and her three companions only call each other by their occupational titles: the biologist, the anthropologist, the surveyor, and the psychologist. All are women. Trained for months in a secret government facility (a sector known as The Southern Reach) in weapons, science, survival skills, and combat training, the four scientists really have no idea what lies in wait for them on the other side of the border. Nothing could prepare them for what happens next. ... This book is an intense mind-fuck full of slow, sweet build-up, and almost palpable tension which ends in an explosive and thoroughly satisfying climax. VanderMeer is a master at giving you small hints and victories as you piece together what is going on as each member of the team slowly succumbs to the horrors of whatever is causing the illness, insanity, and transformation that is spilling out of Area X's every living cell, from the bark of the trees to the gigantic unseen animals that you can hear moaning in the reeds but never actually get a good look at until they are hurtling toward you at full speed, jaws open. He is amazing at small touches that at first sound almost innocuous but in the end leave you reeling from their impact and hidden implications. This book is creepy and horrifying. So I'd classify it as a horror. It also is a strong science-fiction entry. Another thing that is wonderful and amazing about this book is that it really only deals with women. Women are the good guys, the bad guys, the smart ones, the stupid ones, the brave ones, the scared ones. Men definitely exist and are spoken of in the novel, but since the entire mission is composed of females, females serve every character function in this book. It's mindblowing and I really loved it. (I wish that this kind of story could exist when men are ALSO in the picture, but it seems that as soon as a man enters a book, all of women's responses, attitudes, dialogue, and thoughts are affected in some way as a result. Usually not for the better.) Two really kick-ass characters exist in the biologist (our main character) and the surveyor, who has a strong military background. Even though they are both kickass, they are kickass in very different ways, and it was fascinating to see how that played out. The villain of the piece (I won't tell you who) is also, of course, female - devious, manipulative, and sinister. There's a more cowed, peace-loving character as well, who plays the 'weak' role and is always trying to please others and help them. The book is a interesting collection of character studies that was always blowing my mind with new revelations. I really felt an affinity for the biologist. I could relate to her character. She's certainly complex and unlikable in a lot of ways. We are inside her head (this book is in first-person) and it is a delight to see such a strong, capable, cold-blooded woman take on this challenge, use her scientific brain to figure stuff out, and do whatever she has to do to survive. She was spectacular, I was on the edge of my seat rooting for her and cheering her intelligent, sometimes brutal decisions. I have read this book twice in one day. I couldn't put it down and I also felt like I should read it a second time in order to really absorb VanderMeer's beautiful writing and also his complex and mind-blowing concepts. If you enjoy books or are a person who likes to read, I highly recommend this excellent book to you. I hope the next two books in the trilogy ( Authority and Acceptance ) are as good. Even if I had to take this book by itself, though, it would still be a 5-star read and a stand-alone novel in its own right. P.S. It is fair to note that the paperback U.S.A. edition of this is absolutely gorgeous. A work of art. Not only is the cover beautiful, but the back side of the cover and the back side of the back cover are detailed with an intricate, green, beautiful drawing of a marshy swampland filled with dragonflies, flowers, herons, bullfrogs, and ibis. If you do not skip immediately to the first chapter, there is a rather large detailed drawing of a boar on the title page. It's gorgeous and I want to own it. It's really, really rare that I buy a book published in English, so... the fact that I feel a deep and urgent NEED to see this on my shelf is really saying something. ...more Rating: 4* of five The Publisher Says : Area X has been cut off from the rest of the continent for decades. Nature has reclaimed the last vestiges of human civilization. The first expedition returned with reports of a pristine, Edenic landscape; all the members of the second expedition committed suicide; the third expedition died in a hail of gunfire as its members turned on one another; the members of the eleventh expedition returned as shadows of their former selves, and within months of their r Rating: 4* of five The Publisher Says : Area X has been cut off from the rest of the continent for decades. Nature has reclaimed the last vestiges of human civilization. The first expedition returned with reports of a pristine, Edenic landscape; all the members of the second expedition committed suicide; the third expedition died in a hail of gunfire as its members turned on one another; the members of the eleventh expedition returned as shadows of their former selves, and within months of their return, all had died of aggressive cancer. This is the twelfth expedition. Their group is made up of four women: an anthropologist; a surveyor; a psychologist, the de facto leader; and our narrator, a biologist. Their mission is to map the terrain and collect specimens; to record all their observations, scientific and otherwise, of their surroundings and of one another; and, above all, to avoid being contaminated by Area X itself. They arrive expecting the unexpected, and Area X delivers\u2014they discover a massive topographic anomaly and life forms that surpass understanding\u2014but it\u2019s the surprises that came across the border with them, and the secrets the expedition members are keeping from one another, that change everything. My Review : Winner of the 2015 Nebula Award for science fiction novels and the 2014 Shirley Jackson Award for horror novels, this novel earns accolade after award heaped on top of praise for a good reason: It is eerie, atmospheric setting plus glimpsed monsters plus the recrudescence of the inner evil in all humans. And it's very well written. We're well into this short book before something truly scary happens; before that, it was all spooky suggestions. The first truly scary thing (view spoiler) [was the discovery of one woman's mutilated, fungus-laden corpse (hide spoiler) ] ...an intense impact! One thing I must note about Mr. Vandermeer's work is that he seems inordinately interested in fungi and molds. **shudder** The shroom-o-phobic members of the audience are warned. Everyone else, I recommend the book with mild reservations, but only mild ones, about the SF-resistant ladies. I myownself would say try 50pp, for what that's worth. ...more Curiosity could be a powerful distraction When the 12th expedition planned on further investigating the mysterious Area X, things started to get weird again. The team was comprised of a biologist, anthropologist, surveyor, and a psychologist. This expedition proved to be just as dangerous as the first 11. Will this one finally be the successful one, or will it be the worst one of them all? Annihilation received a huge amount of buzz and positive feedback over the past few months. I've also bee Curiosity could be a powerful distraction When the 12th expedition planned on further investigating the mysterious Area X, things started to get weird again. The team was comprised of a biologist, anthropologist, surveyor, and a psychologist. This expedition proved to be just as dangerous as the first 11. Will this one finally be the successful one, or will it be the worst one of them all? Annihilation received a huge amount of buzz and positive feedback over the past few months. I've also been seeing it in bookstores lately so I finally decided to give it a try. While this one sounded a lot like Michael Crichton's Sphere, I liked Sphere a million times better than this. I'll be a bit honest and say that my liking of Sphere affected my expectations for this novel. The premise was not that different, but the execution was. The premise was really promising. Area X seemed nothing but a mystery to me, and obviously that was what the author was trying to portray. I liked that idea, but honestly I was clueless not till the last 20% of the novel. It took me that long to finally realize what was really happening. I liked the overall plot, but I was expecting better execution. The novel was very detailed and vivid about what it wanted to portray. One example would be; Velvet ants and tiny emerald beetles crawled over them. The tall pines, with their scaly ridges of bark, rose on both sides, and the shadows of flying birds conjured lines between them. The writing was really good. I can't complain about that. The main thing that I hated about this novel would be the terrible lifeless characters. None of them was good enough to be liked. I honestly didn't care if all of them died, even the boring ass main character. While the plot was decent, the characters ruined what little left of fondness I had of the novel. I'm very glad that the next novel would have a different set of characters. I'm hoping for redemption for this trilogy. I almost forgot to add in that the secret in the end was not that bad. I was expecting something cheesy but I liked it in a way. Not really a plot twist, but it was a good revelation nonetheless. 3/5 stars. Decent plot, really good writing, but terrible character development. I'm still giving the next novel a chance. I'm really hoping the characters would be a lot better there. ...more \"The effect of this cannot be understood without being there. The beauty of it cannot be understood, either, and when you see beauty in desolation it changes something inside you. Desolation tries to colonize you.\" So is it with Annihilation by Jeff Vandermeer. Summaries do not do this book justice. Its story colonized me. It was not an invasion; it did not attack my brain, insistent that I continue reading. I was not forced by fear to discover if the hero lives. My limbic system did not spike m \"The effect of this cannot be understood without being there. The beauty of it cannot be understood, either, and when you see beauty in desolation it changes something inside you. Desolation tries to colonize you.\" So is it with Annihilation by Jeff Vandermeer. Summaries do not do this book justice. Its story colonized me. It was not an invasion; it did not attack my brain, insistent that I continue reading. I was not forced by fear to discover if the hero lives. My limbic system did not spike me with adrenaline until I finished. Instead, slowly, phrase by phrase, the story moved into my head. Area X edged into my imagination. The biologist\u2019s words whispered to me. Leafy tendrils unfurled around me, gently scenting the air with greenness. The basic plot: a biologist, a psychologist, a surveyor and an anthropologist are the twelfth team sent to explore the mysterious, primitive, Area X. Other expeditions have all gone drastically wrong, but due to an inability of technology to function in Area X, no one knows exactly how or why. In order to maintain control over the trip and the experience, the team is stripped of their personal identity, leaving only their roles to define themselves. The biologist narrates their experience in Area X, providing a touchpoint for the reader\u2019s conception of the world Vandermeer is working in. I found the combination of the uncertainty of the background world, the mystery of Area X and the beauty and specificity of the writing irresistible. \u201cI thought again of the silhouette of the lighthouse, as I had seen it during the late afternoon of our first day at base camp. We assumed that the structure in question was a lighthouse because the map showed a lighthouse at that location and because everyone immediately recognized what a lighthouse should look like. In fact, the surveyor and anthropologist had both expressed a kind of relief when they had seen the lighthouse. Its appearance on both the map and in reality reassured them, anchored them. Being familiar with its function further reassured them.\u201c In fact, it functioned as a lighthouse for them, adrift in Area X and from each other. The biologist is a solitary woman, and her self-containment makes a profound statement. Of course, they all are particularly isolated\u2013there is a strange lack of emotional connection between them\u2013but the biologist\u2019s fascination with the creation around her sets her apart. \u201cThe tension lifted somewhat, and we even joked a little bit at dinner. \u2018I wish I knew what you were thinking,\u2019 the anthropologist confessed to me, and I replied, \u2018No, you don\u2019t,\u2019 which was met with a laughter that surprised me. I didn\u2019t want their voices in my head, their ideas of me, nor their own stories or problems. Why would they want mine?\u201c I finally realized the deep sense of familiarity I had reading: Jeanette Winterson \u2019s profound, substantive writing style (Lighthousekeeping) collaborating with David Quammen \u2019s enthusiasm for biology (I really need to bump him up on the to-re-read list). Together Vandermeer has created a sophisticated blend of science fiction, vaguely ominous, reminiscent of Sheri S. Tepper mid-career. Identity, connection and environment are all major themes threading through Annihilation, themes that are often shared with the writers mentioned. For some, the pitch-perfect writing won\u2019t be enough to sustain them through slow plot build and even slower resolution. Like The Night Circus , this isn\u2019t a plot-driven story as much as one based on both character and ideas, with writing that is truly well-crafted. It worked for me, yet I\u2019m also left with the feeling that I might just want/need to read it again after finishing the final book, Acceptance . It\u2019s that kind of story. ...more The first thing I noticed on the staging level before we reached the wider staircase that spiraled down, before we encountered again the words written on the wall...the tower was breathing . The tower breathed , and the walls when I went to touch them carried the echo of a heartbeat...and they were not made of stone but of living tissue . Four scientists embark on an expedition to Area X. From the beginning, they view each other with suspicion and doubt; it does not help that they have been encourag The first thing I noticed on the staging level before we reached the wider staircase that spiraled down, before we encountered again the words written on the wall...the tower was breathing . The tower breathed , and the walls when I went to touch them carried the echo of a heartbeat...and they were not made of stone but of living tissue . Four scientists embark on an expedition to Area X. From the beginning, they view each other with suspicion and doubt; it does not help that they have been encouraged NOT to share too much information as it may skew their observations. This book is wrought with disquieting suspense. The tension begins within the first pages and never really lets up. I was reminded of seeing Alien for the first time. You know something REALLY BAD is going to happen. It's just a matter of when...and what... Finding out the true meaning of the word \"annihilation\" as it relates to this book was absolutely chilling, as is one character's realization: \"Perhaps this expedition had a different purpose than what we were told.\" Thank you, Lynn, for knowing I'd want to read this book before I even realized it myself. ...more Welcome to Area X. Ecologically pristine. Cut off from civilization. Hostile to humans. What lurks there? Does it have a name? Will you live to tell about what you've seen? Who will believe you? If one can be said to \"do\" weird, then I don't think I do it very well. Annihilation -- the first book in the Southern Reach Trilogy -- is Weird with a capital 'W' with its roots in H.P. Lovecraft and Algernon Blackwood. It has a post-modern mindfuck vibe as well reminiscent of House of Leaves . That is to Welcome to Area X. Ecologically pristine. Cut off from civilization. Hostile to humans. What lurks there? Does it have a name? Will you live to tell about what you've seen? Who will believe you? If one can be said to \"do\" weird, then I don't think I do it very well. Annihilation -- the first book in the Southern Reach Trilogy -- is Weird with a capital 'W' with its roots in H.P. Lovecraft and Algernon Blackwood. It has a post-modern mindfuck vibe as well reminiscent of House of Leaves . That is to say, there were parts of this book that worked really well for me (especially the first half). I felt the epic creep and that twisting, squirming sense of dread of what I couldn't see, of what was lurking right in the corner of my eye. But as with most Weird fiction I've tried, there was a lot of \"huh?\" and a growing sense of impatience that acts like a maddening itch I can't scratch. Ever sit on a sneeze that just won't happen for more than 15 minutes? Yeah, kinda like that. Or put another way, lots of really great, thoughtful foreplay that does not deliver on that big finish (I'm a fan of the big finish. The journey is nice and all but I need to know there is a final destination and that there will be fireworks when I get there, that this all means something. I hate ambiguity. It is not my friend). This book is also well-written . If you are a fan of the word-smithing and an author who is in complete control of creating mood and atmosphere then this is something you might want to check out. There are scenes that practically pulse with claustrophobia and paranoia. The dread is definitely present and some of the reveals are quite shocking and satisfying. I just needed more. What should have been leading towards a crashing climax and a crescendo of realizations simply just....peters out with a whimper, instead of delivering on the bang. Did I mention how much I love the bang? For you Weird aficionados out there and fans of the unreliable narrator (I'm primarily looking at you mark monday ) you might want to give this a second look. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cWe all live in a kind of continuous dream. When we wake, it is because something, some event, some pinprick even, disturbs the edges of what we\u2019ve taken as reality.\u201d Welcome to the place that lies outside of Trump\u2019s wall that Mexico paid for. It is known as Area X . . . \u201cOur mission was simple: to continue the government\u2019s investigation into the mysteries of Area X . . . We were the twelfth expedition.\u201d After my failure yesterday I Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cWe all live in a kind of continuous dream. When we wake, it is because something, some event, some pinprick even, disturbs the edges of what we\u2019ve taken as reality.\u201d Welcome to the place that lies outside of Trump\u2019s wall that Mexico paid for. It is known as Area X . . . \u201cOur mission was simple: to continue the government\u2019s investigation into the mysteries of Area X . . . We were the twelfth expedition.\u201d After my failure yesterday I was looking for a palate cleanser. Annihilation was not only due back to the library today, but it was really short so I knew even if I ended up hating it at least it wouldn\u2019t be much of a time suck. Unfortunately for all y\u2019all this is a story that not much can be said about without ruining the whole thing. I\u2019m going to leave it with the following: (1) if you don\u2019t like world building, stay the eff away because this sumbitch is nothing but, and (2) if you hated Bird Box you\u2019ll hate this too. For me? Well, my reading experience last night looked a lil bit like this . . . If you decide to give Annihilation a go, I highly recommend clearing your schedule and reading it in one sitting. I read three-quarters last night and then my family came home and expected me to like talk to them and stuff (how rude, right?). When I picked it up again this morning, the creepy factor had definitely lessened and my rating dropped. All in all, however, it was still decent. I also really appreciate the fact that although this is part 1 of a series it worked perfectly fine as a stand-alone, leaving me with zero regrets about maintaining my stance on not reading past the first book. I decided to give Annihilation a go based on my friend 11811 (Eleven)\u2019s rating. See that Goodreaders? When you really get to know what someone likes/doesn\u2019t like they don\u2019t even have to write words to make you add their latest reads to your TBR. Thanks Eleven! ...more So I went to the Natural History Museum in NYC and watched a wonderful IMAX film about the wonders of the ocean world, the horrors of a living coral reef, and animals that more properly resembled plant life. One life form slowly devours another, using all the myriad tricks of evolution, from symbiosis and natural selection, to rise, unerringly, to be the top of the food chain. I felt like I just read a SF/Horror hybrid that was just narrated by Jacques Cousteau, full of even and progressive prose So I went to the Natural History Museum in NYC and watched a wonderful IMAX film about the wonders of the ocean world, the horrors of a living coral reef, and animals that more properly resembled plant life. One life form slowly devours another, using all the myriad tricks of evolution, from symbiosis and natural selection, to rise, unerringly, to be the top of the food chain. I felt like I just read a SF/Horror hybrid that was just narrated by Jacques Cousteau, full of even and progressive prose, leading me inexorably to a great change. I can't quite place it as either the end of a feeding or the opening sequence of a brand new symbiosis. Either way, this was definitely an awesome Biopunk novel, and I don't see any reason why it shouldn't have won 2014's Nebula. (And it did.) I was reminded, of course, of Ballard's Crystal World, so many of Greg Bear's novels, but especially his novel Legacy. I can't ignore Perdido Street Station either, or any of the other great bio-enhanced SF that's out there, but I'll check my nostalgia at the door right here. I was actually very impressed at the way Ghost Bird was handled, as a character, jumping back and forth from her past to her present regularly. Mr. VanderMeer purposefully turned his characters into cyphers, placed tons of limitations on them, and then set them loose to have their own life in this horrible place, but instead of staying limited, they broke out of their bonds like little expressions of fungi and animal-like protoplasms to slither across the page in unexpected ways. Ghost Bird, herself, was like a great ocean of denial, always telling us that she was no more than her surface appearing, and yet, every step of the way, she reflected back to us a great unconscious drive that kept pounding at us until she met the lighthouse keeper, and after. Oddly enough, I had a horrible reaction while reading this. Does anyone know the music from Clockwork Orange? The one with the ditty about \"I wanna marry a lighthouse keeper and keep him company?\" Well, I kept hearing that tune throughout my reading of this novel, and what a counterpoint it was. I heartily recommend finding it and listening to it a dozen times while reading or rereading the awesome trippy crawler scenes. It opened up my experience in wonderful ways. :) Horror is absolutely not dead, and thank god for it! It's just gone underground into New Weird and SF titles. It's been a good while coming, I know, but life changes. I'm just not certain whether horror is being consumed or becoming symbiotic. Who knows? It's the same thing with me. I come away from this novel feeling a bit infested. A bit glowy. Have I jumped the fence? I don't know. Maybe I'll never know. There is one thing that I do know, though. I have to read the two sequels. It's too good not to. ...more Jarringly beautiful and horrifying. Easily my favorite book so far this year. The next stop in my end-of-the-world reading marathon was Annihilation , the first entry in Jeff VanderMeer's Southern Reach trilogy. While the novel doesn't introduce a doomsday scenario or send the population of a major city fleeing in terror, an apocalyptic vibe permeates the story, which is elliptical, imaginative, removed, occasionally creepy and mostly lifeless. The heavily concept oriented novel deals with an expedition into Area X, an ecological dead zone that has appeared in an unnamed re The next stop in my end-of-the-world reading marathon was Annihilation , the first entry in Jeff VanderMeer's Southern Reach trilogy. While the novel doesn't introduce a doomsday scenario or send the population of a major city fleeing in terror, an apocalyptic vibe permeates the story, which is elliptical, imaginative, removed, occasionally creepy and mostly lifeless. The heavily concept oriented novel deals with an expedition into Area X, an ecological dead zone that has appeared in an unnamed region (the black pine forests, swamp and ocean suggest Florida) of an unnamed country (the United States, most likely) apparently being studied by an agency known as the Southern Reach, which has previously sent in eleven teams to study the area. Death, suicide and madness visited those teams. Apparently. The twelfth expedition is an all-female team which include an unnamed Biologist, Surveyor, Anthropologist and the team leader, a Psychologist. After six months of training, a Linguist attached to the team suddenly bowed out. The women are hypnotized in order to walk through the border of Area X and once there, begin to investigate a mysterious tunnel that appears on no map. Death, suicide and madness ensue. This is the shortest plot summary I've ever had to submit for a novel I read all the way through. I don't feel that I'm leaving a lot out. I'm a huge fan of mysteries of the unknown like the Bermuda Triangle, Loch Ness or The Zone of Silence and didn't mind the tight, minimalist approach to the mystery. VanderMeer generates a fair amount of unease with this slow motion nightmare. His descriptions are vivid yet controlled. The novel is controlled from start to finish by something I dislike the more I encounter it in fiction: the unreliable narrator, or, the Choose Your Own Adventure approach. VanderMeer spins a colorful wheel of fortune and challenges the contestant, I mean the reader, to test their luck at figuring out the puzzle. Is Southern Reach a lie or a figment of the imagination? Is Area X? Are the characters real? What is \"real\"? That's not a story! That's a parlor game. Annihilation has all the excitement of a viewing at a funeral parlor.. At all times I felt like a reader reading a science fiction story. It's \"interesting\", which means I didn't much like it. I'm giving the book two stars for keeping me on as a reader until the end, but have deleted the two sequels from my reading docket and will move on to science fiction with characters, dialogue and a pulse. ...more Feed Area X but do not antagonize it, and perhaps someone will, through luck or mere repetition, hit upon some explanation, some solution, before the world becomes Area X. This is the story of the 12th expedition to Area X- a name which brings to mind some sort of secret government lab in the desert but which, in this story, seems more akin to Amazonian jungle ruins, or the wilderness from a Miyazaki film. Princess Mononoke came to mind early on in the story when the narrator, who we know as the b Feed Area X but do not antagonize it, and perhaps someone will, through luck or mere repetition, hit upon some explanation, some solution, before the world becomes Area X. This is the story of the 12th expedition to Area X- a name which brings to mind some sort of secret government lab in the desert but which, in this story, seems more akin to Amazonian jungle ruins, or the wilderness from a Miyazaki film. Princess Mononoke came to mind early on in the story when the narrator, who we know as the biologist (names are not a luxury permitted in Area X) describes a boar who had a \" kind of electricity sparked in its eyes,\" and author, Jeff VanderMeer , creates an environment with the hybrid wonder of nature and a touch of something otherworldly. Pieces of my love for this book grew from my own experiences as a scientist in the field in such a way that I am rendered a bit useless in my role as \"the reviewer.\" I found myself deeply taken with how one's title can shape expectations and, thus, experiences with and in the environment around us. Seeing the world through the lens of \"science\" can simultaneously bring you closer to and create distance from the things around you. The veil of \"objectivity\" created by a mist of measurement and data can dampen the emotional response- especially when it comes to fear. The biologist's deep curiosity paralleled my own as the mysteries of Area X unfolded and I was tickled by how she (as I do at times in life) confronted things with technical language as a means of coping (terms like defensive mimicry don't garner the same reaction as \"body snatchers\" might). When you are too close to the center of a mystery there is no way to pull back and see the shape of it entire. I'm not sure that I've really relayed any information about this book. It is mysterious and wonderful- there's the constant unsettling feeling of knowing that nothing is as it seems but with face-paced acceptance of this type of phenomenological existential crisis that is necessary in order for a story (and a character) to proceed. Looking forward to the second and third installments of the Southern Reach Trilogy (both of which are being released in 2014). ...more Oh my god, what is going on here? Never have I been so freaked out by a book where so much vague, unsettling stuff happens; I can't even tell you why I was so spooked while I was reading this. This reminded me a lot of both House of Leaves and The Ruins but it's not really like either of those books, except there was a lot going on in HoL that scared me without me really being able to articulate why. I'm really, really glad that I stopped reading & went to bed before pushing through on the l Oh my god, what is going on here? Never have I been so freaked out by a book where so much vague, unsettling stuff happens; I can't even tell you why I was so spooked while I was reading this. This reminded me a lot of both House of Leaves and The Ruins but it's not really like either of those books, except there was a lot going on in HoL that scared me without me really being able to articulate why. I'm really, really glad that I stopped reading & went to bed before pushing through on the last twenty pages, because the combination of night + the ending might well have been the very end of me. I have many questions about Area X & only one of them was really answered (what was going on with the black boxes? and it was a totally awesome explanation). Luckily, book two is out in May! Best way to write sequels ever, don't keep your readers hanging on for dear life for years & years. Authority , here I come! ...more If Annihilation is any indication, 2014 will be a good year for fiction. Written by Jeff Vandermeer, promoter of the new weird (see also: Jagannath), Annihilation is a tour de force, a slow burn of wonder and dread the culmination of which leaves the reader demanding more. Happily, Annihilation is the first entry in The Southern Reach Trilogy; Authority will be published in June, and Acceptance in September. (Fun fact: Whilst Googling, I discovered that the books are slated to be made into movies If Annihilation is any indication, 2014 will be a good year for fiction. Written by Jeff Vandermeer, promoter of the new weird (see also: Jagannath), Annihilation is a tour de force, a slow burn of wonder and dread the culmination of which leaves the reader demanding more. Happily, Annihilation is the first entry in The Southern Reach Trilogy; Authority will be published in June, and Acceptance in September. (Fun fact: Whilst Googling, I discovered that the books are slated to be made into movies.) Annihilation begins with the entry of an expedition into Area X. Area X is a contaminated environment, abandoned by human life decades ago. The Southern Reach, a government or institution responsible for Area X, organizes expeditions to study the region. Annihilation relates the story of the twelfth expedition, comprised of the psychologist, the anthropologist, the surveyor, and the biologist, who is also the narrator. It is not giving anything away to say that the expedition goes horribly wrong. Area X is in many ways a pristine wilderness, untouched by human hands, save those of the expeditions, for decades. Vandermeer, via the biologist, lavishes detail on the landscape, establishing for the reader a setting both familiar and \"uncanny\": The wetlands, the trees, the bright blue skies, but also large, unidentified reptiles, a low \"moaning\" phenomenon that occurs only at dusk, and, especially, the fungal life. Vandermeer's descriptions of the environment are vivid, appropriate not only to the character of the biologist, but also serving to simultaneously orient and unbalance the reader. The shifting relationships of the characters, all known only according to their function in regards to the expedition, contributes to the readers' unease. It soon becomes evident to the biologist (and, thus, the reader) that all is not as it seems. The psychologist, the leader of the expedition, appears to know more than she is saying, and is armed with phrases that provide her influence over the other team members, even to the point of subverting their independence. This knowledge complicates the biologist's relationship with the surveyor, who becomes suspicious of both her and the psychologist. Who can be trusted? The focus of the story is the exploration of two local landmarks, the lighthouse, which appears on the team's maps and appears to have been the scene of vicious assaults, and the \"Tower,\" a strange inversion of the lighthouse, really, that tunnels downward into the earth and in which the surveyor and the biologist discover words written with luminescent fungi: \"Where lies the strangling fruit that came from the hand of the sinner I shall bring forth the seeds of the dead to share with the worms that...\" Needless to say, the discovery of the words unnerves the team, and the Tower is the scene of some of the expedition's most horrific moments. It's impossible to provide more detail about the story without giving away elements that should be discovered by individual readers. Suffice it to say that Annihilation lives up to the appellations of \"thriller\" and \"new weird.\" The revelations are as disorienting as the mysteries. Annihilation is a page turner, a masterfully crafted novel that demands readers' attention. Vandermeer's storytelling skills are on full display here, using setting, character and plotting to create in the reader not only a growing sense of dread, but also the need to confront the source of that dread. This readers' only regret is that Annihilation, at 200 pages, wasn't longer, and that Authority and Acceptance aren't immediately available. Highly recommended. (Special thanks to NetGalley and Farrar, Straus and Giroux for the opportunity to read an advance copy of Annihilation in exchange for an honest review.) ...more Annihilation (Southern Reach Trilogy #1) by Jeff VanderMeer is one of the books the cool kids already beat me to. It has received mostly good ratings with one exception from those in my circle. The reviews and some prodding brought me to this book. This is one of those books where the reader is dropped right into a bizarre story without much preface. To complicate the matter the characters are not much better off information wise than the reader. There is a boundary at the Southern Reach, which Annihilation (Southern Reach Trilogy #1) by Jeff VanderMeer is one of the books the cool kids already beat me to. It has received mostly good ratings with one exception from those in my circle. The reviews and some prodding brought me to this book. This is one of those books where the reader is dropped right into a bizarre story without much preface. To complicate the matter the characters are not much better off information wise than the reader. There is a boundary at the Southern Reach, which could be anywhere in the deep south near a coast. This boundary requires special attention to cross and only trained teams are allowed to cross; twelve of them since the appearance of this Area X. Several possible themes run through my mind. Area X reminiscent of 1950s Science Fiction movies. The characters called by their occupation and not a name reminiscent of Ayn Rand\u2019s Anthem or advanced soviet style world. Where did Area X originate from? A Chernobyl type accident? A Sverdlovsk type anthrax accident? Perhaps String Theory branes colliding? Despite the short two hundred pages the story is really much bigger and more complex and mysterious. There are many small things that are are mentioned in passing that make one think there must be more to it. There is something really out of whack in this place, much more so than typical sci-fi. Annihilation is one of those books that you keep thinking about it long after you finish it. It also makes you wonder if the following books will drag you further down the rabbit hole or begin to make sense of the situation. A very enjoyable in a mind bending way. I put the second book on hold at the library already so I guess I am hooked on this series. ...more I've put off reviewing this for a few days because I feel like the author is out there watching me, ready to scream \"Annihilation, annihilation!\" if I get it wrong. Ahem. I have seen a lot of pre-press hype for this book, partly because I follow the author on Facebook. I even went to a reading in 2012 where Jeff VanderMeer read from an earlier draft, based on a dream he had with writing on the wall. I knew back then that I would need to read the book, and then it turned into a trilogy! A lot of co I've put off reviewing this for a few days because I feel like the author is out there watching me, ready to scream \"Annihilation, annihilation!\" if I get it wrong. Ahem. I have seen a lot of pre-press hype for this book, partly because I follow the author on Facebook. I even went to a reading in 2012 where Jeff VanderMeer read from an earlier draft, based on a dream he had with writing on the wall. I knew back then that I would need to read the book, and then it turned into a trilogy! A lot of comparisons have been made to Lovecraft, and I don't disagree I guess, the swampy horror element is definitely there. It kept reminding me more of another well-known work - The Martian Chronicles by Ray Bradbury. I'm not sure where Area X is exactly, nor do I know if there are aliens involved, but the reason I kept thinking of it has to do with dangerous expeditions. I found the Martian Chronicles really disturbing. I had a hard time focusing on all the descriptions and stories because I kept coming back to the fact that they had sent people to Mars before, and everyone always died! I couldn't understand what motivated people to go when they knew this to be true. That brings us to Annihilation, which starts with four women heading into the twelfth expedition into Area X. The surveyor, anthropologist, and the biologist seem to know very little about what they are getting into, and the psychologist (and group leader) seems to know more than the others based on the fact that she has to hypnotize them to get them in. I'm not sure why that is. The things I thought I knew about Area X as a reader became less clear throughout the short novel. I found that the more I thought about the unknowns, the less I really wanted to know the answers, yet the author insists on unveiling them in a gradual way and it makes them so much worse. Oh yes, this is horror through and through. I'm afraid to read the following books of the trilogy; I'm afraid not to. Quit reading reviews! Read the book instead! Go pick up the first chapter at io9. Hurry back, because I have another comparison I want to make but you have to read the book first. \"Desolation tries to colonize you.\" ...more 5 Stars Annihilation by Jeff Vandermeer is a trip to the unknown \u201cArea X\u201d told by the master of the new weird. Vandermeer is one of my favorite authors and Finch one of my all time favorite novels period. He writes fantasy, the new weird, where things are not always what they seem and the unusual will be the ordinary. This book is no exception to that only it is done with a light touch. Like in his Ambergis series the setting itself \u2018Area X\u2019 is a character in of itself. Although it does not reach 5 Stars Annihilation by Jeff Vandermeer is a trip to the unknown \u201cArea X\u201d told by the master of the new weird. Vandermeer is one of my favorite authors and Finch one of my all time favorite novels period. He writes fantasy, the new weird, where things are not always what they seem and the unusual will be the ordinary. This book is no exception to that only it is done with a light touch. Like in his Ambergis series the setting itself \u2018Area X\u2019 is a character in of itself. Although it does not reach the level of the city of Ambergis, to me, maybe the coolest fictional city ever built by pen, it does give this novel it\u2019s incredible feel and sets up to be the center for additional books in this The Southern Reach trilogy. Ok, to describe what Annihilation is, I compare it to a TV show and a movie maker. First, it is a novel about a group of scientists that are charged with trying to map out, record, and uncover the mysteries of \u2018Area X\u2019. These professionals are chosen and trained by the Southern Reach\u2026think, The Dharma Initiative. They than insert the group of scientists into \u2018Area X\u2019\u2026think, The Island of Lost. So much of this book plays out as did the amazing television series Lost, the mysteries, the back story, and the relationships. Now imagine Hayao Miyazaki penning a story that takes place on a beach. It has a lighthouse, an ocean and of course a hole in the ground. There are strange plants and animals. Things are not as they might first appear. Colors are significant and meaningful and more. Couple all this with mystery after mystery. People with no names. Psychological warfare, philosophical debate, and even more questions than answers\u2026All of this being told by a master story teller Jeff Vandermeer. Now you can get a sense of what this book and this series is about without me actually telling you anything and giving away nothing. Simply incredible. As our biologist said in this book\u2026. \u201cI am aware that all of this speculation is incomplete, inexact, inaccurate, useless. If I don\u2019t have real answers, it is because we still don\u2019t know what questions to ask. Our instruments are useless, our methodology broken, our motivations selfish. * * * There is nothing much left to tell you, though I haven\u2019t quite told it right. But I am done trying anyway\u2026\u201d To sum it up \u2014- Vandermeer one of my all time favorites\u2026 Cool ass setting. Incredible writing. And oh what a mystery!!! Get it!!! ...more My recommendation this month goes to Jeff Vandermeer's \"Annihilation.\" This is a book about a doomed expedition following on the heels of other expeditions into country that has proven to be all but impenetrable and which appears to change those who go into it. The writing is first rate. At times I was reminded of Ursula LeGuin. The author has that uncanny ability to see an issue from more than one side and to make a story that has little actual violence into a a thrilling page turner. This is t My recommendation this month goes to Jeff Vandermeer's \"Annihilation.\" This is a book about a doomed expedition following on the heels of other expeditions into country that has proven to be all but impenetrable and which appears to change those who go into it. The writing is first rate. At times I was reminded of Ursula LeGuin. The author has that uncanny ability to see an issue from more than one side and to make a story that has little actual violence into a a thrilling page turner. This is the first in a trilogy, and the next comes out in May. Better get on this one before it does. ...more Jeff Vandermeer's latest work is haunting. Annhilation is a short cross-genre horror sci-fi fantasy work that packs quite a punch. I would describe it as roughly a cross between House of Leaves , Pollen by Jeff Noon, and H.P. Lovecraft. The House of Leaves comparison arises from the way that Vandermeer manages to derive a significant creep-factor from structures. The Pollen connection arises from the way nature (is it?) has finally turned against humanity despite humanities presumption of dominat Jeff Vandermeer's latest work is haunting. Annhilation is a short cross-genre horror sci-fi fantasy work that packs quite a punch. I would describe it as roughly a cross between House of Leaves , Pollen by Jeff Noon, and H.P. Lovecraft. The House of Leaves comparison arises from the way that Vandermeer manages to derive a significant creep-factor from structures. The Pollen connection arises from the way nature (is it?) has finally turned against humanity despite humanities presumption of domination over nature, and H.P. Lovecraft is an obvious touchpoint thanks to the inexplicable, the embrace of the incomprehensible and that which is beyond understanding. Annhilation is the first of a trilogy, the second of which is coming out next week: Authority Southern Reach Trilogy 2 . I've already reserved my copy at my local indie bookstore. (Hey, support yours.) Vandermeer is an excellent writer; his capability with language is highly literary and refined. This is a rather simple story and yet it captures a disturbing atmosphere; it weaves a strange web partly because it brings us close to nature, which few of us civilized people are exposed to, and second because that nature has been changed...altered...which conjures--without needing to ever once use the phrase \"climate change\"--the pending horrors, which our human civilization has inflicted upon the biosphere. This subtle un-stated implication is what makes this story so frightening. Its lies are truth. The story itself follows a small expedition into Area X. They are the twelfth expedition. None before have...survived, not really. Some came back, also changed, but they didn't last. This small all-female group (the Southern Reach--some sort of world government?--seems to be testing out different mixes of people to see how they do) consists of a biologist, a psychologist, an archaeologist, and a surveyor. The story is told in close first person, a point of view that seems to bother some folks, but it's my favorite. It's the one which, when done well, achieves inner realism, and the greatest potential to forget that the author exists. The biologist is the main character, and she feels quite believable. A rather lonely, hard-to-get-to-know person but when seeing her from inside, we can understand her. We get to know her and that is also part of the horror. Will she survive? I desperately wanted her to make it. Area X is a zone where nature has returned to formerly inhabited areas, the Wildness has come back and taken over. The expedition is sent in to figure out what is going on. And guess what? It's weird. It's scary. It's intriguing. I will say no more because this is a treat worth exploring on your own, but I do highly recommend this modestly terrifying work and look forward to part two. Part three will also be released this year! Amazing. ps. Here's my review of another Vandermeer book, City of Saints and Madmen . pps. This is just personal taste but now having read two Vandermeer books and two China Mieville books...I find Vandermeer to be the better writer. China is wildly creative but has less of a grasp of language, character and atmosphere. ...more Book Info : Genre : Psychological thriller (Per publisher); Lovecraftian fiction (per me) Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : Fans of Lovecraftian stories, surreal or bizarro fiction Book Available : February 4, 2014 in paperback , Kindle , and audiobook formats Trigger Warnings : killing, mind control, murder, attempted murder My Thoughts : An early reader of this book described it as, \u201c A little Kubrick, a lot Lovecraft... \u201d and who could resist that juicy plum? I'm not sure what genre to put this in, how Book Info : Genre : Psychological thriller (Per publisher); Lovecraftian fiction (per me) Reading Level : Adult Recommended for : Fans of Lovecraftian stories, surreal or bizarro fiction Book Available : February 4, 2014 in paperback , Kindle , and audiobook formats Trigger Warnings : killing, mind control, murder, attempted murder My Thoughts : An early reader of this book described it as, \u201c A little Kubrick, a lot Lovecraft... \u201d and who could resist that juicy plum? I'm not sure what genre to put this in, however. While it is dark fantasy, it is also very gritty and \u201creal\u201d in many places. Any elements of magical realism are subtle and may be the result of an unreliable narrator. Or maybe not. Maybe these things really are happening. The problem is that so much of it seems dream-like and surreal that you just can't know for certain. The Lovecraft comes about through the slow, creeping weirdness that gradually ramps up into more and more weirdness as the story continues. The plot is very surreal in many places. If a person isn't a fan of Lovecraftian fiction and/or bizarro or surrealism, then they probably will not enjoy this story. However, if you take the time to focus and follow along, you will find yourself in a very interesting place. I, for one, will definitely be watching for the rest of this trilogy, to find out what happens, because it's just such a cool idea. I can't give you any details about the story as it would be very easily spoiled. But if you like Lovecraftian, surreal or bizarro fiction, then check this book out. Series Information : The Southern Reach Trilogy Book 1 : Annihilation , available February 4, 2014 Book 2 : Authority , available June, 2014 Book 3 : Acceptance , available September, 2014 Disclosure : I received a paperback ARC from the Amazon Vine program in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own. Synopsis : Area X has been cut off from the rest of the continent for decades. Nature has reclaimed the last vestiges of human civilization. The first expedition returned with reports of a pristine, Edenic landscape; all the members of the second expedition committed suicide; the third expedition died in a hail of gunfire as its members turned on one another; the members of the eleventh expedition returned as shadows of their former selves, and within months of their return, all had died of aggressive cancer. This is the twelfth expedition. Their group is made up of four women: an anthropologist; a surveyor; a psychologist, the de facto leader; and our narrator, a biologist. Their mission is to map the terrain and collect specimens; to record all their observations, scientific and otherwise, of their surroundings and of one another; and, above all, to avoid being contaminated by Area X itself. They arrive expecting the unexpected, and Area X delivers\u2014they discover a massive topographic anomaly and life forms that surpass understanding\u2014but it\u2019s the surprises that came across the border with them, and the secrets the expedition members are keeping from one another, that change everything. ...more \u201dAniquila\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d (2014) \u00e9 o primeiro livro de uma trilogia denominada \u00c1rea X do escritor norte-americano Jeff VanderMeer (n. 1968) Jeff VanderMeer (n. 1968) \u201dAniquila\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d come\u00e7a com mais uma expedi\u00e7\u00e3o cient\u00edfica \u2013 a d\u00e9cima segunda - a um local enigm\u00e1tico, uma \u00e1rea intocada, uma zona litoral com estranhas propriedades f\u00edsicas, com uma equipa composta s\u00f3 por mulheres: uma bi\u00f3loga, a narradora, uma antrop\u00f3loga, uma top\u00f3grafa e uma psic\u00f3loga, a mais velha e a l\u00edder, nenhuma tem nome; todas escolhidas em \u201dAniquila\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d (2014) \u00e9 o primeiro livro de uma trilogia denominada \u00c1rea X do escritor norte-americano Jeff VanderMeer (n. 1968) Jeff VanderMeer (n. 1968) \u201dAniquila\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d come\u00e7a com mais uma expedi\u00e7\u00e3o cient\u00edfica \u2013 a d\u00e9cima segunda - a um local enigm\u00e1tico, uma \u00e1rea intocada, uma zona litoral com estranhas propriedades f\u00edsicas, com uma equipa composta s\u00f3 por mulheres: uma bi\u00f3loga, a narradora, uma antrop\u00f3loga, uma top\u00f3grafa e uma psic\u00f3loga, a mais velha e a l\u00edder, nenhuma tem nome; todas escolhidas em fun\u00e7\u00e3o de um complexo conjunto de vari\u00e1veis que presidiam ao envio das referidas expedi\u00e7\u00f5es e que poderia durar dias, meses ou at\u00e9 anos, dependendo dos v\u00e1rios est\u00edmulos e condi\u00e7\u00f5es; n\u00e3o podendo transportar equipamentos tecnol\u00f3gicos de investiga\u00e7\u00e3o. A narrativa vai evoluindo entre uma \u201ctorre\u201d e um \u201ct\u00fanel\u201d, consoante a perspectiva de cada um, onde existe uma escada em espiral, em que nas paredes existem palavras, frases, \u201d- Onde jaz o fruto estrangulador que caiu da m\u00e3o do pecador eu farei brotar as sementes dos mortos para que partilhem com os vermes que\u2026\u201d (P\u00e1g. 31), que s\u00e3o feitas de um musgo em forma de min\u00fasculos fetos, parecendo ser um tipo de fungos ou outro organismo eucari\u00f3tico. Jeff VanderMeer atrav\u00e9s da leitura dessas frases, aparentemente, sem sentido, mas que parecem ter efectiva liga\u00e7\u00e3o, faz-nos viajar por locais bizarros e por ecossistemas exuberantes, atravessando povoamentos florestais, p\u00e2ntanos, um pa\u00fal e praias tropicais. O temor e o terror vai-se instalando \u00e0 medida que a expedi\u00e7\u00e3o avan\u00e7a, destacando-se a forma engenhosa como Jeff VanderMeer concilia uma trama recheada de suspense, um thriller cient\u00edfico e dist\u00f3pico, com a associa\u00e7\u00e3o a organiza\u00e7\u00f5es obscuras e herm\u00e9ticas, num vislumbre de um mundo onde a ci\u00eancia e as institui\u00e7\u00f5es cient\u00edficas v\u00e3o esticando os limites do conhecimento. Depois h\u00e1 uma liga\u00e7\u00e3o sentimental, o marido da bi\u00f3loga, sobrevivente da d\u00e9cima primeira expedi\u00e7\u00e3o, mas que entretanto falecera de cancro, chegou amn\u00e9sico a casa, o que introduz um suspense acrescido, a procura de uma explica\u00e7\u00e3o para o sucedido atrav\u00e9s do di\u00e1rio do marido que encontrou no farol existente na zona. Para os leitores que tal como eu, l\u00eaem esporadicamente livros de fic\u00e7\u00e3o cient\u00edfica ou dist\u00f3picos, \u201dAniquila\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d \u00e9 um excelente livro, com um enredo engenhoso e intrigante, com Jeff VanderMeer a utilizar o registo do di\u00e1rio da bi\u00f3loga, como m\u00e9todo narrativo de uma forma muito objectiva e descritiva. \u201dAniquila\u00e7\u00e3o\u201d faz parte de uma trilogia e o desfecho final fica, obviamente, em aberto; pelo que brevemente irei ler \u201dAutoridade\u201d o segundo livro da trilogia \u00c1rea X . O filme vem a caminho, a estrear em 2017, numa realiza\u00e7\u00e3o de Alex Garland e com Natalie Portman no papel da bi\u00f3loga e Jennifer Jason Leigh a interpretar a psic\u00f3loga. ...more I read this because it was a book selected for my book club. I wasn\u2019t too happy when I found out that it was book 1 in a trilogy. Even though I can\u2019t say I was incredibly satisfied with its ending, I don\u2019t feel a consuming desire to read on, though I would like to know everything about books 2 and 3. (Anyone who wants to enlighten me about books 2 & 3, please pm me or email me or post comments in spoiler tags at this review. Thank you!) This book works well enough as a standalone book. The e I read this because it was a book selected for my book club. I wasn\u2019t too happy when I found out that it was book 1 in a trilogy. Even though I can\u2019t say I was incredibly satisfied with its ending, I don\u2019t feel a consuming desire to read on, though I would like to know everything about books 2 and 3. (Anyone who wants to enlighten me about books 2 & 3, please pm me or email me or post comments in spoiler tags at this review. Thank you!) This book works well enough as a standalone book. The ending is open ended but no more so than in many other books. I wasn\u2019t 100% satisfied with the ending. Even though in a way I was okay with the resolution I\u2019d have liked even more details and explanations, even though I think the reader is told what is going on by the end, and there are hints throughout. Especially at the beginning, as I read I was reminded of the tv show Lost, a show I loved most of the way through though I was disappointed by how it ended. This book is beautifully written. I love the biologist narrator. I enjoyed reading about the parts of her earlier life and reading her thoughts and experiences during the book\u2019s events. I think that almost all the characters are interesting. The story is intriguing and definitely imaginative, and it\u2019s great fun. I was fascinated throughout. I was making guesses all the way along about the meaning of what was going on. In that way this felt like a mystery and I enjoyed that aspect. There are many twists, and I also enjoyed those. I was afraid it would get religious and I don\u2019t think that it did but I\u2019m ignorant enough that I can\u2019t be certain of that. The book is very creepy and I felt a great deal of trepidation as I read. It\u2019s one of those stories I can deal with while reading (I was afraid of getting nightmares from this one though I didn\u2019t) but I cannot take movies with this type of subject matter. As I was reading I was informed that this is being made into a movie. I plan to skip it/them. I do think that my book club might have a good discussion about this book. I didn\u2019t love it but I did like it and I don\u2019t regret taking the time to read it. I think I might enjoy hearing others\u2019 thoughts and opinions even more than I enjoyed the book. ...more Annihilation is all about tone. Hitting a single note on a piano and letting it ring out for as long as it can. It takes a special kind of talent to get me as enraptured as I was while reading this book. Descriptionporn. Settingporn. Atmosphereporn. That's what this is. But I\u2019m not saying these things were PORNOGRAPHIC in here, I\u2019m saying Vandermeer revels in the scenery of Area X so much, it\u2019s almost as if it were being fetishized. And, in a way, I suppose it is. The main character, simply calle Annihilation is all about tone. Hitting a single note on a piano and letting it ring out for as long as it can. It takes a special kind of talent to get me as enraptured as I was while reading this book. Descriptionporn. Settingporn. Atmosphereporn. That's what this is. But I\u2019m not saying these things were PORNOGRAPHIC in here, I\u2019m saying Vandermeer revels in the scenery of Area X so much, it\u2019s almost as if it were being fetishized. And, in a way, I suppose it is. The main character, simply called the biologist (with a lowercase b) is a woman detached from the world around her, even before the mysterious happenings that befall her and her crew over the course of this novel. It\u2019s through her eyes we experience this world, and it makes sense that the flora and fauna would not only be alluring to her, but also described in the most vivid and colorful of details. But that\u2019s just part of what makes this book a winner. There\u2019s also the MYSTERY. The giant WHY of it all. The slowly unraveling of character and the slow-burning exposure to the greater ENIGMAS that haunt this quarantined land. Parts of it are reminiscent of Lost (the TV show) in its early seasons, but it digs much deeper than that, and as such, shines its light on more profound truths. This is the first in a trilogy, so not every question has been answered, but enough was explained to satisfy me with this particular book as a whole, and I\u2019m certainly intrigued enough to pick up the next volume as soon as I possibly can. This was good shit. ...more<---C>Jeff VanderMeer</---C>", "Title": "Annihilation"},
