{"Comments": "The beginning of the end. I was fascinated with the whole human servant thing. I was fascinated with the werewolf added into the fray thing - talk about a messy love life! I thought that her powers increasing was fine - they had to if she was hanging around the kinds of monsters that were in her coterie. The twist with her being able to have a vampire servant bound to her was a nice one....after all,<---M> her power is to control the dead</---M>, and what are vampires but dead? But it was never enough. It go The beginning of the end. I was fascinated with the whole human servant thing. I was fascinated with the werewolf added into the fray thing - talk about a messy love life! I thought that her powers increasing was fine - they had to if she was hanging around the kinds of monsters that were in her coterie. The twist with her being able to have a vampire servant bound to her was a nice one....after all, her power is to control the dead, and what are vampires but dead? But it was never enough. It got to the point that every man who crossed her path fell madly in love, lust or slack jawed admiration of her whether he was human, vampire, werewolf, psychopath, you name it. She was a walking Love Potion Number 9. The only men who could withstand her powers of attraction were men who were such small side characters that they didn't matter. And her powers just kept getting bigger. First she's an animator and can raise the dead...with some effort and a careful ritual and specific tools. Then she doesn't need much effort, then she doesn't need any tools at all, then she becomes a necromancer, able to call ALL the dead. Then she becomes the werewolf's female leader, then the were leopards female leader although she's not forced to do any changing with the full moon nastiness. It gets to the point that you figure when she meets God, she'll just absorb all his powers, too. Is there any power she DOESN'T have? Because if not, I can guarantee she'll have it eventually, although I will not still be reading this series by the time she ascends to divinity. And as the sex increases, the plot decreases. I have nothing against soft core porn, I really don't. I read my fair share of it and enjoy it. But if I pick up a book to read a mystery or some fantasy and get doused with a couple hundred pages of fellatio before the plot even begins, I'm not reading what I picked the book up to read. This book marks a major turning point in the series for me. Up until this book, the series was still a good one despite the loss of the female detective angle as her social life becomes the focus of the plots rather than solving a mystery. But this book crosses over the line and from here, you need to grit your teeth to keep going with the rest of the series. ...<---F>more [My opinion, for what it\u2018s worth</---F>...exactly:] With the exception of Micah , I've read the entire <---C>Anita Blake</---C> series up to this point (<---B> Blood Noir , #16</---B>) and, in the aforementioned opinion, Obsidian Butterfly was the last decent book, after which the series should have been renamed Anita Blake, Vampire Humper since the majority of what little action takes place occurs in the bedroom, the back seat of automobiles, on the kitchen table, the bathroom floor...etc, etc, etc. Beginning with Narcissus In Ch [My opinion, for what it\u2018s worth...exactly:] With the exception of Micah , I've read the entire Anita Blake series up to this point ( Blood Noir , #16) and, in the aforementioned opinion, Obsidian Butterfly was the last decent book, after which the series should have been renamed Anita Blake, Vampire Humper since the majority of what little action takes place occurs in the bedroom, the back seat of automobiles, on the kitchen table, the bathroom floor...etc, etc, etc. Beginning with Narcissus In Chains , gone are the days when Anita spends her time raising the dead, kicking monster butt, and slaying rogue vampires, with threat to life and limb. Instead, we\u2019re treated to her increasingly frequent sexcapades--watching as she dips her toes (and other body parts) into the murky waters of BDSM and pseudo-beastility (I mean, really, what else do you call sex with a partially-transitioned werecreature--and we\u2019re not talking gender issues here, but rather \"Does it, or doesn\u2019t it, have fur and a tail?\"); tedious repetitions of her ambivalent and animosity-laden encounters with Richard (\u201cHe loves me, he loves me not; He loves me, He\u2019s full of snot.\u201d); and long discourses regarding monster--and especially vampire--sociopolitical structures. Call me provincial, call me shallow and two-dimensional, call me Al (or some other A-word), but when I pick up a book about a vampire hunter, I anticipate, well...vampire hunting, or something of its ilk, not a weird blend of Penthouse Letters, teen diary, and Royal court treatise. It\u2019s too bad, \u2018cause Anita Blake was pretty kick ass, back when she was kickin\u2019 ass. ...more This book is the beginning, the core foundation of everything to come. All of the books prior to this one were filled with death, gruesome and violent homicide scenes, bestial pornographic rape scenes to unquestionable love. Totally weird stuff, but worth every minute of couch time! This book takes the entire series, and swings it into a completely different direction. This book really rocks the boat, and takes you by surprise. The once innocent and strictly moral and you must be in love to have s This book is the beginning, the core foundation of everything to come. All of the books prior to this one were filled with death, gruesome and violent homicide scenes, bestial pornographic rape scenes to unquestionable love. Totally weird stuff, but worth every minute of couch time! This book takes the entire series, and swings it into a completely different direction. This book really rocks the boat, and takes you by surprise. The once innocent and strictly moral and you must be in love to have sex Blake, is torn from those lines of thoughts and thrown into the deep end. Everything changes. This book was a startling shock the first time around. This time, I was expecting the twists and turns and appreciated every moment of Micah and Nathaniel My two favorite sweeties! I still don\u2019t like Richard. To hell with him! Jean-Claude gets on my nerves, he\u2019s become even more secretive, cryptic and manipulative. A power-hungry master vampire, one-third of the triumvirate, he plays puppet master to Anita and Richard and really screws with everyone\u2019s reality. Narcissus is an interesting character. He is the owner of a BDSM club, and although he usually tops .. Asher makes him pant with anticipation. Weird, but fun! He gave a small bow of his head. \u201cNow enter and enjoy the delights, and the terrors, of my world.\u201d Anita\u2019s confusion and fear of love, as usual, leaves her cynical and stubborn. \u201cIf it works out, it\u2019s the best thing in the world. If it doesn\u2019t work out, it\u2019s like having your heart torn out and chopped into little pieces while you watch. It leaves a big hollow space that never really heals.\u201d Sucked into a war between different animal groups, Blake finds herself betrayed by a new love, her body in shock from the bloodshed, and trusting new bodyguards at her back. I pressed the barrel of the Uzi against the top of the head. \u201cIf you\u2019re alive, don\u2019t move, if you\u2019re dead, don\u2019t worry about it.\u201d Hehe .. I think she rocks! I recommend this book to every adult! Sometimes it\u2019s nice to spice up your brain, fall into a world that is unacceptable and continue reading until you\u2019re beating heart pounds in your chest. This book is twisted, filled with extreme violence and moderate to semi extreme sexual scenes. In depth description of alternative lifestyles, and consequences to an addiction Blake gains from the married marks. Do not let any child or immature adult read this book, or ANY book in the series that follows. Happy Reading! And onto Cerulean Sins I go!! .. toot toot ...more Anita Blake is spending some much needed time with her friend, Veronica \"Ronnie\" Sims, when she gets a call. Apparently, submissive Nathaniel went to the club, <+++>Narcissus in Chains</+++>, and got into some BIG TIME trouble. Against the wishes of Ronnie, Anita calls Jean-Claude to give her an assist. At the club, she reunites with her other lover, Richard. From there, BIG changes happen. NOTE: For some odd reason, the only audiobook version I could find is the abridgement. So I'm sure there are tons of n Anita Blake is spending some much needed time with her friend, Veronica \"Ronnie\" Sims, when she gets a call. Apparently, submissive Nathaniel went to the club, <+++>Narcissus in Chains</+++>, and got into some BIG TIME trouble. Against the wishes of Ronnie, Anita calls Jean-Claude to give her an assist. At the club, she reunites with her other lover, Richard. From there, BIG changes happen. NOTE: For some odd reason, the only audiobook version I could find is the abridgement. So I'm sure there are tons of nuances and scenes I've missed. If you gave me this book with no cover, no indication that this was part of the Anita Blake series, I probably would have thought this was part of a spin-off series or fanfiction or some crazy \"What If?\" book, so little connection does it have with any of the previous books. I've been very open that I have never been a huge fan of this series; it's had many faults, the number one being Anita Blake herself, another being the misogynistic view of women, another being pacing, writing, etc. But this book is so completely different, I am at a loss for words to describe how DIFFERENT it is. Ever since Anita slept with Jean-Claude in The Killing Dance , sexuality has been increasing in the series. A couple of sex scenes, lots more discussions of BDSM, weird sexual acts, and of course, a hearty helping of rape. And honestly, I really didn't mind it (well, minus the rape part--honestly, you don't need rape to make things Serious Business). The series was kinda moving in that direction and after all those books of dancing around the sex issue, we really needed some bedroom action, if you catch my drift. But this...this is just one long sex scene. I mean, Anita has sex at least THREE TIMES in this book. That doesn't include her makeout session with Jean-Claude and Richard at the beginning of the book nor all the mentions of the \"ardeur\". The previous books might have ONE sex scene, if you were really looking. Here? You have to try hard NOT to find the sex. But the amount of sex isn't even the real problem; the real problem is the lack of a STORY. Now, I realize I listened to an abridgement, so I'm missing story details, but halfway through the book, there WAS no story, no plot. And then, at the 3/4 mark, LKH realized that she needed to toss one in for kicks, so we get a showdown with Anita and Chimera. Even with all my complaints to the previous books (mostly about Anita wasting time arguing with people), at least the previous books HAD a plot, HAD a story and a focus, HAD something they were building to. Here? It was just about the sex. And the thing is, the sex isn't sexy; it's over-the-top, extravagant, silly sex. That is, when we aren't talking about rape. Because LKH Rule #31: Great way to tell people who the bad guy is is to have him rape or talk about liking rape: \"'I enjoy rape. Adds spice.'\" I can't complain too much about LKH's fetish for over-describing clothes, but I attribute that one more to the abridgment than her toning it down. Because we still get gems like: \"He was dressed in a black vinyl shirt that looked poured on.\" and \"Knee-high leather boots completed his outfit.\" I didn't find Anita so b!tchy and unlikable here, but again, gotta wonder how much got cut out in the abridgment. Does Anita really tone back on the p!ssing contests with everyone and his mother or did that end up on the cutting room floor? As for the notorious \"ardeur\" thing--on one hand, the previous books set it up. On the other, it just sounds like an excuse so that Anita can have as much sex as she wants and not be considered a slut. Which, if Anita wants to have sex, she shouldn't need some gorram \"ardeur\" to make her not a slut. And if the \"ardeur\" is supposed to make her more comfortable with having sex, why is every sex session like pulling teeth, one where she is constantly protesting it? And what the hell is up with Anita's obsession with handshakes? \"She offered me a hand and gave me one of the best handshakes I've ever had from another woman.\" The other characters are meh. Nathaniel makes me want to break something; he is not a \"submissive\", he is a doormat. Micah needs to learn that \"No means no\"; and that when a woman doesn't want sex, he needs to back the frak off. Jean-Claude was barely present; Richard was grouchy the entire time; Ronnie has resorted to being one note: angry that Anita is dating Jean-Claude. No sign of Larry, Anita's daytime job, or a woman that isn't easily pushed around by the rapey men in this series. By far, the most hilarious part of the book is the God-Awful writing. LKH has NEVER been the best writer in the world, but she is at her absolute worst here. Did an editor even SEE this book? Or did it go directly to publishing once LKH had finished typing? Take a peek at some of these and you tell me: \"His eyes had gone drowning blue.\" What color is that exactly? \"He kissed me hard enough to bruise, hard enough to force my mouth open, then he crawled inside.\" It's Aliens!!! Quick, get Sigourney Weaver!! \"The POWAH didn't just build; it exploded. It was like lying at ground zero of a nuclear explosion, the shockwaves shooting out, out, out into the room, while we melted together in the center.\" Aren't similes typically supposed to compare something less tangible with something more tangible? Now answer this question honestly, Anita: How many nuclear explosions have YOU been through? \"He literally breathed, bit, ate the healing into me.\" I literally have a hard time believing you understand how to use the word \"literally\". \"Someone was making small animal noises...and it was me.\" If you can't tell you are making noises, you might want to see someone for that. \"It deepened my breathing, made me have to swallow my pulse.\" This sounds painful!! \"I found my voice, shaky, but mine.\" Good thing, we'd hate to have you be silent for the rest of the series. We got lots more cop p!ssing matches to get into! \"I drank him in as he exploded inside me.\" Again, this sounds IMMENSELY painful. And somewhat impossible \"And I spasmed underneath him, bodies slamming against the bed, not from Richard's thrusts, but from the power of the orgasm itself. Screams spilled from my throat.\" Things I've learned about sex from Anita Blake: 1) Spasming during sex is normal, 2) Orgasms are strong enough to slam bodies into bed, 3) screams are now a white, translucent liquid. \u201c\u2019Lovers?\u2019 I made it a question.\u201d Good thing you let us know that was a question; I would NEVER have been able to tell otherwise. I mean, aren't questions marks meant to be thrown in at random? (BTW, that last part was a question.) \"The room was black, utterly black, like being flung into blindness, nothingness, like a cave.\" Adjectives were buy one, get one free the day that LKH wrote this sentence. If it hadn't been for all these unintentionally hilarious quotes, I would have been bored stiff. This book isn't interesting, doesn't really push Anita into having to face the problems of the previous books, and isn't sexy. If I had been an actual fan of this series, I would have been VERY disappointed; even as a non-fan, *I* felt betrayed by this book. If you have been a fan of the books up to this point, I recommend stopping before you pick this up and really consider whether you want to continue. Of course, if you want to read some hilariously bad writing, read on!! ...more Gaaaaaaaaaaaaah. You know who I'm thinking of here? Marion Zimmer Bradley. That is not a compliment. Talk talk talk sex whine talk cry sex cry sex sex talk whine politics whine sex talk talk mope sex pine sex sex talk cry. Except with Anita, so there's also stomping, threatening violence, and being a total asshole. The outfits in this book are a cross between a West Village queen's fever dream, the erotic etchings of a courtier during the reign of the Sun King, and the yearnings of some sort of Gaaaaaaaaaaaaah. You know who I'm thinking of here? Marion Zimmer Bradley. That is not a compliment. Talk talk talk sex whine talk cry sex cry sex sex talk whine politics whine sex talk talk mope sex pine sex sex talk cry. Except with Anita, so there's also stomping, threatening violence, and being a total asshole. The outfits in this book are a cross between a West Village queen's fever dream, the erotic etchings of a courtier during the reign of the Sun King, and the yearnings of some sort of hair fetishist. Men's hair flows down to waists, down to ankles, can you imagine what a total nightmare it would be to participate in an orgy with that much free-flowing hair? They deliberately take their hair out of braids before climbing into bed! INSANE. I know from experience that it is no damn fun to have your boyfriend accidentally pin your hair while moving around, and my hair was shoulder-length and there were only two of us. I now imagine all of these ridiculously unerotic sex scenes ending with all participants stuck in a giant snarl. Like a hairball hocked up by a massive cat. And then Anita goes into conniptions about whether or not she had sex. This is a woman who has been sexually active for about six years. If she doesn't know what is and is not sex, I don't know what she's doing roaming free. Anita, you went to third base with one guy, second with another, and the others squirmed around you. Man up and deal. Stop whining. Also, I am damn tired of Anita being talked round to a point of view over the course of fifteen pages, then if she's left alone for two seconds she reverts to her previous stance. Usually this stance is \"no, don't wanna\" even when someone has patiently gone over every avenue with her and it's taken thirty pages to get her to see reason. It's like listening to someone compromise with a toddler. There is nothing admirable about Anita's inability to make choices and stand by them. Sometimes she manages to reverse herself twice within one page, and she always ALWAYS takes her indecision out on someone nearby. She is a whiny brat, and J-C is too patient and accommodating. Richard on the other hand? Totally delusional and quite regularly dangerous in his idiocy. I think J-C is a dull fop who lays down for Anita like a brocade doormat, but even now I feel a weird pity for him, that he had the misfortune to hook up with these two morons who are going to get him killed. He must rue the day. Probably tries to kill himself every few weeks out of frustration. The saving grace of this book is that when Anita is having sex with a cat-person, most anatomical features of cat breeding are not carried over. That will probably happen in book 14, though. Shudder. ...more It's really sad the direction this series has gone. The first few books we SO GOOD! Scary and tense with a little sexual tension, but mostly just scary and tense. Then she introduced Richard and things started to go downhill. I don't mind a little romance in my blood & gore, but this is ridiculous. If I wanted to read supernatural porn I'd read the Merry Gentry's series. Wait, I already did. So why would I want to read this crap? It's no longer about the baddies that come out at night. It's a It's really sad the direction this series has gone. The first few books we SO GOOD! Scary and tense with a little sexual tension, but mostly just scary and tense. Then she introduced Richard and things started to go downhill. I don't mind a little romance in my blood & gore, but this is ridiculous. If I wanted to read supernatural porn I'd read the Merry Gentry's series. Wait, I already did. So why would I want to read this crap? It's no longer about the baddies that come out at night. It's all about her threesome with Richard and Jean Claude or lack thereof and all the 'magic' that comes with it. It's SO BORING. They go on and on and round and round the same crap they've been circling around for the last 4 books! And everything takes FOREVER! She knows that someone is in danger and she must save them, but before they get to where they need to be they discuss things that have no bearing on the problem at hand and then generally someone has to try to have sex with Anita. And this time, Hamilton recognizes her long-windedness but still doesn't seem to do anything about it. Apparently, she thinks it's good storytelling. IT'S NOT! It's PAINFUL. And come on, I know I'm a bit behind on this series having started it late, but this book was written in the 2000's. Why is everyone dressing like they're going to a bad gay bar in the 80's? The descriptions of the clothes sound like horrible 80's rejects. Silver mesh shirts & pants? On men. Men with hair down to their waists with vinyl shirts and pants. Ew. \"There was nothing feminine about Richard.\" Well, except his hair and his pathetic attitude. And she repeats herself constantly. Twice in one chapter she writes that very powerful shapeshifts can partially shift. She's ALWAYS (I don't think there's been a book without this) says something about seeing something horrific and \"my mind simply refused to understand\". And then she'll go on to explain how the mind isn't meant to see such things and tries to protect you from understanding what you're seeing. I KNOW!!!! YOU'VE ALREADY SAID THIS!!!!!!! It's so annoying! I don't think I can read anymore of this series. I can't stand Anita and her wishy washy morals and her sociopathic attitude. She's tired and done and really, just a projection of Hamilton wanting to play out her sexual fantasies. It's not about monsters and scary things anymore. Boo. ...more This is probably my favorite book in the series. I loved loved loved this one. I know many people think that after Obsidien Butterfly things went down hill and there was nothing but sex sex sex all the time, but if you look at the emotions involved and Anita's blossoming power in this book it is more than any book yet, plus there is nothing wrong with liking a little bit of sex (or alot) with your reading. So Since I do like those things I name this book my absolute favorite and I'm sure there a This is probably my favorite book in the series. I loved loved loved this one. I know many people think that after Obsidien Butterfly things went down hill and there was nothing but sex sex sex all the time, but if you look at the emotions involved and Anita's blossoming power in this book it is more than any book yet, plus there is nothing wrong with liking a little bit of sex (or alot) with your reading. So Since I do like those things I name this book my absolute favorite and I'm sure there are many people out there who would agree with me. I mean Narcisus what a wacko yet kinda cool, then there is Chymera who is mentioned many many times after this book and plays an extemely important part in Anita's future this is definetly not one to miss. ...more TOTALLY SPOILERY, BEWARE Hamilton managed to work in at least two Triple Word Scores with use of terms that resonate well with genre fans: ouroboros (remember Scully's tattoo, anyone?) and oubliette (yay! Jareth would be so pleased). But the newest term created for the Blakeverse? Panwere. Because it was not enough to have werewolves, wereleopards, wererats, wereswans, weresnakes, weretigers, werehyenas, weredogs and werebears. Nay, we also have to have someone who can shapeshift into multiple an TOTALLY SPOILERY, BEWARE Hamilton managed to work in at least two Triple Word Scores with use of terms that resonate well with genre fans: ouroboros (remember Scully's tattoo, anyone?) and oubliette (yay! Jareth would be so pleased). But the newest term created for the Blakeverse? Panwere. Because it was not enough to have werewolves, wereleopards, wererats, wereswans, weresnakes, weretigers, werehyenas, weredogs and werebears. Nay, we also have to have someone who can shapeshift into multiple animals. Oh, and also, he must have split personality disorder. (Just roll with it, it's faster that way.) When the books began, Anita was 24 and she was an animator (meaning she could raise zombies). Then she became a human servant to a vampire. But then she killed him (which nearly killed her) and was freed. Somewhere along the way, she went from being just an animator to a necromancer (like an uber-animator - she can now also raise vampires). Then she became a human servant again. And since she was dating the werewolf king (called an Ulfric), she was deemed his lupa (like a werewolf queen, I guess). And then she killed the head wereleopard in town and became the wereleopard's Nimir-Ra (queen). So, when this book began, Anita was 26 and a necromancer human servant to the Master of the City and the werewolf king's lupa and the wereleopards' queen. (See how I said to just roll with it?) During the course of the book, Anita is accidentally impaled on the claws of one of her wereleopards, so it seems she might become their Nimir-Ra for like real, yo. She exhibits all sorts of new powers that confirm this suspicion. But come the next full moon, she doesn't shapeshift and it turns out that much as her vampire sweetie has an \"animal to call\" (being wolves), she (through the marks of being his human servant) has gained an animal to call of her very own - the leopard. How convenient. Oh, and she has also become a Master Necromancer, in that she now has a vampire servant. And did I mention she is now also a succubus? Yeah, that one would take too long to explain, so just keep rolling. New folk that want to sleep with her: the new Nimir-Raj (leopard king) in town. And that panwere I mentioned earlier. Of course. ...more Just your average book named after a transvestite, sado-masochistic were-hyena. I swear that market is getting flooded! My Internet is out until Monday and I'm using my phone, so I'll keep it short. Anita is still annoying, Richard is still a dick, Jean Claude is still awesome, and Nathaniel is still sweet. This for me is where the series went to crap. Before this I'd rate no book in this series lower than a four, but this one falls off a cliff. I held on and read to book 18, Flirt , because I had genuinely loved the series until this book, and back then once I invested in a series I kept with it, and with the books published up to The Harlequin , momentum kept me going, at least until I had to wait for the next book to be published. But Hamilton did something here that made me want to hurl the book This for me is where the series went to crap. Before this I'd rate no book in this series lower than a four, but this one falls off a cliff. I held on and read to book 18, Flirt , because I had genuinely loved the series until this book, and back then once I invested in a series I kept with it, and with the books published up to The Harlequin , momentum kept me going, at least until I had to wait for the next book to be published. But Hamilton did something here that made me want to hurl the book against the wall. I thought, she didn't just do that! But she did, and it wasn't an aberration or anything that was ever \"fixed\" and so completely changed the direction of the books from fun paranormal noir to soft porn. To explain what went wrong and how I felt, first I have to explain what originally appealed to me, then what Hamilton did here, and thus get into spoilers. So if avoiding them is important to you, you might not want to read beyond the next paragraph. When I grew up there was no Buffy the Vampire Slayer, who appeared not long before the Anita Blake novels appeared. (Although Anita as a necromancer had appeared even before that in a short story.) There weren't many kick-ass action heroines around, so growing up I really appreciated them. I loved Anita's voice at first. She was a tough-as-nails take-no-crap woman in a male-dominated milieu and I found it easy to root for her. She had her vulnerabilities and hangups, but I thought Hamilton was pushing her in an interesting direction. I liked the dynamic between Anita, Jean-Claude and Richard. Jean-Claude, the vampire, started out fairly menacing, and the whole plotline with the different marks, with Anita struggling to remain human, resonated with me. Richard the werewolf represented something different: someone struggling himself to remain human, but perhaps in vain given his basic nature. And you could see Anita struggling not just between the two men, but what they represented. Learning that not all such \"metaphysical\" creatures should be seen as monsters, but struggling with the darkness within herself and where to draw the line. And I liked that Anita had a web of relationships beyond men she was romantically involved with, such as Dolph her colleague on the police force and her friend Ronnie Sims. Spoilers Start Here--for this and future books All that changed with this book. In this book Anita becomes a \"succubus\" because of the ardeur that forces her to have sex to feed it, and forces men to have sex with her who are drawn by it. So the fuel that drives the plots of the Anita Blake series from here on, a series that had been focused on a independent, tough take charge heroine... is rape. I hated that. And this book also adds one of my least liked regular characters in the Anitaverse--Micah--as well as marks the increase in importance of Nathaniel, a character I loathe. After this book Richard and Jean-Claude become more and more marginalized until in some books all we get are brief telephone conversation with them. And the sex takes over until there's little plot or scenes beyond the bedroom and Anita has an entire harem of men never developed beyond eye and hair color. That hadn't changed up to book 18. ...more \"I crave you more than you will ever crave the man in your arms.\" Another re-read for me. I had forgotten how good this one was!! No detective work this time, but still a lot of wonderfully entertaining problems arise. I'm just going to sum up the fun stuff and what annoyed me. Anita has been gone for six months distancing herself from her men and spending time with Marianne in an attempt to sort things out and focus on gaining better control of her magic. When in need of assistance regarding pro \"I crave you more than you will ever crave the man in your arms.\" Another re-read for me. I had forgotten how good this one was!! No detective work this time, but still a lot of wonderfully entertaining problems arise. I'm just going to sum up the fun stuff and what annoyed me. Anita has been gone for six months distancing herself from her men and spending time with Marianne in an attempt to sort things out and focus on gaining better control of her magic. When in need of assistance regarding problems with her pard, Jean-Claude and Richard are quickly brought back into the mix. While becoming reacquainted they secure their triumvirate by performing a power orgy in the middle of a BDSM club. As a result of this we are later introduced to the infamous ardeur that basically transforms Anita into a sex-crazed succubus. Anita finds her Nimir-raj in Micah (yaaaay!). I would rather have Anita as a Nimir-ra with her leopard clan than being Lupa to the wolves. The leopards are a messed up bunch but they are much more interesting than the wolves . . . well, Jason being the exception, of course. While I adore Micah's character, there are a few things that bothered me about him . . like how he's willing to bend to Anita's every need, making him seem almost fake, like when he was immediately ready to jump into bed with Jean-Claude because he thought that was what Anita wanted ( creeeepy ). The other thing that bothers me is that he is described as short, even for a woman, with long curly hair and a delicate, feminine face. It's hard for me to put that image together in my mind. Come on, he's the king of his clan so why does he have to be so girly? I was very surprised by how jealous Jean-Claude was of Micah. I actually liked that side of him. I've always been undecided about how Jean-Claude really felt about Anita. I couldn't help but feel that he craves her power so desperately that he's more interested in how she can enhance their abilities instead of truly caring about her. But this story made me feel like he really does genuinely love her. \"He is an entree, a very, very main course, and I wish to be the only entree at your table.\" Now on to Richard, our morally superior, narrow-minded, self-tormenting boy scout. He was extremely disappointing all the way around. He really pissed me off not standing up for himself or what happened to Gregory. I really wanted Anita to punch him one more time on the other side of his pretty face. I'm not even going to get started on his lame suicide attempt. The clan should have chained him to the ceiling in Chimera's newly remodeled club o' torture before they departed. He would have made a charming addition to the dangling, bloody, flesh ornaments that decorated Chimera's room. I also didn't like how Anita handled the situation with Elizabeth. She left Nathaniel alone when she was given direct orders not to and the damage it caused was severe. So I expected Anita to react immediately when Elizabeth appeared again but instead she allowed her to humiliate her some more in front of everyone before she took any action. That just wasn't an Anita Blake move. Overall I love, love, loved this book. I don't know what made me decide to start re-reading this series (even though I'm doing it out of order) but I'm glad I did. Now I'm on to more Anita Blake - the executioner, federal marshal, Nimir-ra, Lupa, Bolverk, necromancer, human servant, succubus. Am I forgetting one? ...more *le sigh* So, this is one of my least favorite novels of all time. In and outside of the Anita Blake series. I began reading this series as a senior in high school (about 2002) and was enraptured by this giant world of were-folk, vampires, and our favorite ball-busting, vampire staking, caustically witty Anita Blake. I followed the series dutifully and enjoyed every page. Obsidian Butterfly was wonderful with more Edward! But I got to this novel and became extremely dumbstruck and disappointed. Wh *le sigh* So, this is one of my least favorite novels of all time. In and outside of the Anita Blake series. I began reading this series as a senior in high school (about 2002) and was enraptured by this giant world of were-folk, vampires, and our favorite ball-busting, vampire staking, caustically witty Anita Blake. I followed the series dutifully and enjoyed every page. Obsidian Butterfly was wonderful with more Edward! But I got to this novel and became extremely dumbstruck and disappointed. What happened? Where did Anita go, and who is this crazed sex fiendish psuedo were-queen, vampire servant woman? The change to the writing style happened so drastically that I knew there was no going back. It seemed that Hamilton realized she would make more money punching out vampire bodice rippers than actually formulating an effective plot. ...more I normally begin my reviews with a summary of the book\u2019s plot. So I\u2019m going to scrape some plot out here to write about Anita has, after the drastic events of the last book, decided to end her 6 month separation with Richard and Jean-Claude and re-bound the marks since without the marks being properly linked all three of them are walking around with a great big target painted on their foreheads. Unfortunately, because Jean-Claude is an incubus, uniting the marks means Anita gains the adeur, becom I normally begin my reviews with a summary of the book\u2019s plot. So I\u2019m going to scrape some plot out here to write about Anita has, after the drastic events of the last book, decided to end her 6 month separation with Richard and Jean-Claude and re-bound the marks since without the marks being properly linked all three of them are walking around with a great big target painted on their foreheads. Unfortunately, because Jean-Claude is an incubus, uniting the marks means Anita gains the adeur, becomes a succubus and gains the mystical ability of having to have sex every 5 minutes. There\u2019s also a new force in town kidnapping shapeshifters and making a play for Anita\u2019s leopards, a new Nimir-Raj in town interviewing to lead the leopards and a battle that results in Anita being clawed by a wereleopard. She now has to not only rescue her leopards and keep her people safe \u2013 but deal with both the demands of the ardeur and the urges of her beast. I\u2019m going to say something that will shock a lot of people who have read this book. This book had potential. No, really, it did. We had Anita and Richard finally realising they need to work something out with Jean-Claude and stop doing the whole running for the hills thing (or the turn into acid thing). With the addition of the new leopards we could have actually developed Anita\u2019s connection with the leopards and actually give the Pard a culture on par with the wolves (there\u2019s a reason why Anita keeps using the wolf words for the leopards \u2013 because they don\u2019t have words! They even shifted from a French Heraldic naming system to a Hindi naming system). We could have had an exploration of the political implications of an alliance between the vampires and the werewolves \u2013 and even working the hyenas into the system and where that left the rats. Especially with them developing a \u201cShapeshifter coalition\u201d. Part of that could be pointing out that Chimera isn\u2019t actually much of a threat and it\u2019s only because the big hitters abandon the weak groups. They could have developed the sheer mess Richard had made of the pack \u2013 perhaps even working with Raina\u2019s munin rather than making it another one of Anita\u2019s arsenal of one-off-powers we forget about until they\u2019re needed. We could have had a greater examination of what marrying the marks meant beyond just the ardeur and even some more definition as to what powers Jean-Claude and Richard actually have. We could even have had Anita remembering she\u2019s a Necromancer or, y\u2019know, has a job. Because there was actually a lot more to this book than the ardeur and the endless humping, though it is the first step down the road that leads to all the books being consumed by humping. But none of it was developed \u2013 there was just a lot of random, seemingly pointless, events that didn\u2019t develop into anything, added nothing to the characters and nothing to the plot. Damian and Gretchen being released from the coffins \u2013 not developed. Gil, the werefox, what was the point? Faust and Meng Die introduced \u2013 why? The Swan-King and the Swanmanes \u2013 added nothing. Even the core of the shapeshifter coalition could just have had Christine (a pre-existing character) turn up and say \u201cshifters going missing\u201d and covered everything that was needed there. Ronnie and Anita going out dancing? Pointless. Paris strutting her stuff at the Lupanar? Pointless. Richard\u2019s angst about some werewolf killing someone on her wedding night? Pointless! Even that whole leadership challenge was covered in the damn epilogue! Chekhov\u2019s gun,folks! Or Chekhov\u2019s damned arsenal in this case! Wait, I\u2019ve got to have a tangent here \u2013 by all that is holy stop resolving issues in the epilogue! An epilogue exists to tie up minor loose ends! The epilogue exists to bring some confirmation on side issues. The epilogue does not exist for you to brush over huge great big sections of the plot and world! Why set up Anita as Bolverk and have an angst ridden scene where Richard concedes that he can\u2019t be evil enough to be Ulfric and needs Anita\u2019s help if all of Anita\u2019s help and all of that conflict is solved in the epilogue?! These random pointless events not only cluttered the story but also made the pointful events that were foreshadowing for future books \u2013 like Dolph\u2019s family issues and Asher\u2019s bitterness seem just like extra clog and filler. Even parts of the plot like rescuing and healing Gregory just dragged on for chapter after chapter with no good purpose. It\u2019d fit if there weren\u2019t so many distractions \u2013 but there always are. Read More ...more I liked most of the previous Anita Blake books (the exception being Blue Moon ), but this really is were the series shifts. The hint at the end of OB that Anita wants to get her life under control is not fulfilled here. In fact, it is almost like Anita has become a totally different character. There is no real plot to this book, honestly. The melding that occurs seems to have been pointless, and just made Anita weaker, in the form of enslaving her to sex. Considering that Hamilton always teased w I liked most of the previous Anita Blake books (the exception being Blue Moon ), but this really is were the series shifts. The hint at the end of OB that Anita wants to get her life under control is not fulfilled here. In fact, it is almost like Anita has become a totally different character. There is no real plot to this book, honestly. The melding that occurs seems to have been pointless, and just made Anita weaker, in the form of enslaving her to sex. Considering that Hamilton always teased with the idea of Anita being in a real relationship with two men at once, there seems no point to having Anita gain the ardeur, unless it is to have her sleep with more than two men. This makes it a bad plot device. But my main problem is that in the hardcover edition, the Anita/Micah shower sexual encounter shows it as a rape, and then I am suppose to believe Anita loves Micah? Anita from the earlier books would have, at the very least, shot Michah or turned him into the cops at the end of the books. If you are looking for a book that is just pointless sex, read this. If you are look for a book that deals with a plot that has sex, and handles sex and rape in an adult manner, this is not the book for you. ...more (Original review, Dec 2006 http://hill-kleerup.org/blog/2006/12/... ) Overall: 3/5 Story: 2/5 Re-Readability: 4/5 Characters: 2/5 The tenth installment in the Anita Blake novels is where the series really, truly, goes off the rails. This is as far as I\u2019ve gotten, both in my original reading and in this current rereading of the series \u2014 though I\u2019ve every attention of going on from here \u2014 but this book exemplifies what\u2019s gone wrong with this series from its initial excellent start. 1. If things don\u2019t se (Original review, Dec 2006 http://hill-kleerup.org/blog/2006/12/... ) Overall: 3/5 Story: 2/5 Re-Readability: 4/5 Characters: 2/5 The tenth installment in the Anita Blake novels is where the series really, truly, goes off the rails. This is as far as I\u2019ve gotten, both in my original reading and in this current rereading of the series \u2014 though I\u2019ve every attention of going on from here \u2014 but this book exemplifies what\u2019s gone wrong with this series from its initial excellent start. 1. If things don\u2019t seem complicated enough, through in another major, critical crisis. 2. Tell, don\u2019t show. For a book supposedly chock-full of action (violence and sexual), people spend a lot of time talking. And explaining. And describing. And delving into mystical backstory. And stuff that\u2019s not moving the tale forward (just complicating it). 3. If two people have talked about something, make sure that one of them talks about the same thing with someone else, preferably immediately following. Use some of the same phrases, too. 4. When in doubt, have Anita sleep with it. Or, if that\u2019s too icky, shoot it. Or, if that\u2019s inappropriate, get angsty about her desire to sleep with it and/or shoot it. 5. If last book\u2019s menace was the most evil, perverted, nasty, unspeakable, powerful critter one could imagine in one\u2019s nightmares, make sure that the menace in this book is at least twice as evil, perverted, nasty, unspeakable, and powerful. 6. Since Anita barely handled last book\u2019s menace, make sure her powers get similarly escalated (in size, number, or both) this time. She is, after all, an Animator, Master Necromancer, Vampire Hunter, Vampire Servant, Triumvirate Member, Lupa of the Werewolves, Lover of the Master of the City, Nimir-Ra of the Wereleopards, Associate of the Cops, Bad-Ass, Smart-Ass, and, eventually, Were-Partridge of the Pear Tree. 7. If Anita seems to be reconciling with someone she loves, make sure they do something particularly repulsive or treacherous. If someone seems to be getting closer to Anita, make sure she does something ultra-violent to drive them away. Rinse, repeat. 8. Come up with another vampire power. Or two. Or three. 9. Come up with another were-species. Or two. Or five. These tendencies had been in the series before, almost from the start. But they\u2019re highlighted by the preceding volume, \"Obsidian Butterfly,\" that both gets Anita out of St Louis and manages to focus (more) on a single member of her supporting cast, Edward. Returning to her home city and its cast of zillions, Anita not only is ready to make the same mistakes, she has some months of neglect to clean up after, too. Thus, everything gets longer and more complicated and overblown. This book so badly needs an editor to cut out about 1/3 of what\u2019s going on \u2014 cast, crises, and metaphysics. The book is bloated with them, all held together by Anita getting herself into a mess by either being too ruthless or too soft or both. Folks worried that there isn\u2019t enough sex can rest assured that Anita\u2019s being overcome by a lust curse, alongside yet another love/lust interest entering the game. Folks worried there\u2019s not enough violence can rest assured that were-critters can be shot at and tortured ad infinitum, and so they are. There are about three books in this one, as well as about three weeks of action, but Hamilton mushes it all together into a volume that's huge but still almost incoherent in its twisted knots. It\u2019s little wonder the protagonist keeps forgetting the twenty impossible things she has to do before breakfast (or sunrise), because there are so many that the readers forget, too, and it\u2019s a wonder the author doesn\u2019t. So why, with all of that, do I keep reading these books \u2014 in fact, rereading them? Because there is some good stuff in here. The sex? Meh. Out-of-control (or all-about-control) passion leaves me cold here, as graphic as it is. The romance? Okay, if repetitive from every other previous installment. But the action scenes are pretty good, too and the magic/supernatural stuff (aside from its ever-escalating and occasional deus ex machina natures) is rich and interesting. The cast, always metastisizing, is, individually, well-drawn. The overall theme of What is human? What is a monster? Is it what you are, or what you do? And which of those do you have any control over? remains throughout, profound in its implications, and paradoxically muddied yet enhanced by Anita\u2019s ever-increasing stable of associates, dependents, and powers. It\u2019s like eating that third piece of very sweet and rich dessert \u2014 I know I shouldn\u2019t, I know it won\u2019t taste as good as the first piece, and will likely give me a stomach-ache, but I just can\u2019t help myself. ...more This is still one of my favorite books in the Anita Blake series. Part of that is that it was the last book I read when I first discovered the series and read them in one great rush. (In other words, \"Cerulean Sins\" was the first book I had to wait for.) But a lot of it is the fact that I like the possibilities this book opened up. This book represented a turning point in the series, one that many readers disliked, but I was quite fond of. There is an underlying theme in these books. Anita goes f This is still one of my favorite books in the Anita Blake series. Part of that is that it was the last book I read when I first discovered the series and read them in one great rush. (In other words, \"Cerulean Sins\" was the first book I had to wait for.) But a lot of it is the fact that I like the possibilities this book opened up. This book represented a turning point in the series, one that many readers disliked, but I was quite fond of. There is an underlying theme in these books. Anita goes from a very black and white closed off individual in \"Guilty Pleasures\", to an individual who sees the world in shades of grey. She stops seeing the \"monsters\" as other and starts judging individuals on their own merit. She also slowly releases all her self-imposed restrictions on who and how she can find love. (Minor spoilers, although not enough to tag the whole review.) After the Tri married the marks in the first few chapters of the book, I would have been satisfied with things moving forward as a threesome, but I'll admit in retrospect I like this twist much better. I love Jean-Claude's lover's list and the fact that it was realized in future books. I love the fact that, even with the ardeur, Anita still makes the men in her life earn a place at her side. She's not a woman of casual lusts, no matter how things look from the outside. I also love that this book managed to visit with most of the characters we've come to love. Except for Animator's Inc., I think everyone (in St. Louis) was on stage. Of the vamps, we saw plenty of Jean-Claude, Asher, Damian, and even Gretchen, plus we were introduced to Meng Die and Faust. Additionally, this was the first real introduction of Belle (from a distance). With the wolves, we saw plenty of Richard, Jason, Stephen, Sylvie, Jamill, Shang-Da, and even a hint of Irving. Oh, and Raina, can't forget her. With the leopards we saw plenty of Nathaniel, Gregory, Cherry, Zane, Elizabeth, and Vivian and we were introduced to Micah and his pard. With the wererats, we saw Raphael, Dr. Lillian, and a hint of Louie, plus we were introduced to Claudia and Bobby Lee. We saw Ronnie and Zerbrowski and Dolph. I'm very very impressed that everyone was on stage like that. We also had both vamp and furry politics going on, as well as a (very connected) RPIT case. Overall, I love this book and all the possibilities it brought out for the later books in the series, especially the next two - \"Cerulean Sins\" and \"Incubus Dreams\". Can't recommend enough. (Review date: 03/25/2009) ...more 3.5, closer to 4 though. I have no idea how to rate this book. Everyone seemed to hate it so I started it with really low expectations. What can I say, I was surprised. Some were good surprises, some not so much. On one hand, there were a lot of things that I didn't like. The long, maybe useless descriptions were annoying (but I got used to them by now). I didn't like the \"new\" Richard and how he seemed to change from the guy I was used to. I didn't like the sexual relationships (if you can call th 3.5, closer to 4 though. I have no idea how to rate this book. Everyone seemed to hate it so I started it with really low expectations. What can I say, I was surprised. Some were good surprises, some not so much. On one hand, there were a lot of things that I didn't like. The long, maybe useless descriptions were annoying (but I got used to them by now). I didn't like the \"new\" Richard and how he seemed to change from the guy I was used to. I didn't like the sexual relationships (if you can call them that way) and all they implied. But well, that's kind of the only stuff that I didn't enjoy. The good part is that all these changes were logical, Hamilton was really good at explaining everything and made me see the rationality behind all these changes. Can't say I liked them but they made sense. On the other hand, there were a lot of things that I really enjoyed. This book made me \"feel\" more than any other book of this series. It made me smile, frown, love, hate, yell etc. For me, that's one of the most important things in a book: to make react. It was long but really fast paced. It was very well written. It's everything I began to expect form this series. I just couldn't bring myself to rate this book any lower. Despite all the things I disliked, this was a damn well written book. Despite all the people who hate it and say that this is the beginning of the end, I just see it as a new beginning, a pretty big plot twist (for lack of a better word) that made some people hate this series and some just a bit more curious. I say it's worth a try :) ...more this was an intense book, so much going on. Anita poor Anita it's hard to be a badass when your badassness is running on low. Richard at first I was like oh awesome he's becoming cool, calm and collected and getting with the program ummmmm WRONG!!!! This man was more up & down and more emotional than a woman on PMS. Jean Claude was as usual as calm and cool and sexy as always except when he attacked Micah now that was a trip.... OK so what is it with he shifter boys, they all seem to be rea this was an intense book, so much going on. Anita poor Anita it's hard to be a badass when your badassness is running on low. Richard at first I was like oh awesome he's becoming cool, calm and collected and getting with the program ummmmm WRONG!!!! This man was more up & down and more emotional than a woman on PMS. Jean Claude was as usual as calm and cool and sexy as always except when he attacked Micah now that was a trip.... OK so what is it with he shifter boys, they all seem to be really hung....do you think it's because it's a shifter thing???? I think so poor JC not getting commended for his man size... (I'd still do him regardless, over 500 years of sex, you know that boy knows how to make a girl cream and scream better than any shifter out there :) ). Nathaniel I have to agree with Anita I've always seen him as a helpless child. So her getting sexual (though she's not actually having sex with him) still is weird. Micah now he was and still is an interesting character...he's a dominant but he's definitely not as dominant as Anita, though there are few who are more dominant than her. But now that her and Richard are officially threw, wonder how things are going to go now. ...more oh dear. After possibly the best, tightest, most suspenseful Anita Blake book yet (Obsidian Butterfly), we get this WEIRD story. At first I liked it because Anita's back in St Louis and it looks like she's reuniting with both JC and Richard and apparently everybody is going to be OK with that (after god knows how much drama to get there). But then she gets attacked, contracts lycanthropy (supposedly), and wakes up with strange naked men, one of whom she pretty much immediately screws in the show oh dear. After possibly the best, tightest, most suspenseful Anita Blake book yet (Obsidian Butterfly), we get this WEIRD story. At first I liked it because Anita's back in St Louis and it looks like she's reuniting with both JC and Richard and apparently everybody is going to be OK with that (after god knows how much drama to get there). But then she gets attacked, contracts lycanthropy (supposedly), and wakes up with strange naked men, one of whom she pretty much immediately screws in the shower. I mean, WHAT??!!! Who is this person? Where is Anita the badass, super-Christian little prude who didn't believe in premarital sex?? As many other reviewers have commented, this book seems to be the beginning of something else entirely. As if Hamilton is tired of writing the gory, suspenseful, kickass lady detective-meets-monsters stuff she's been putting out for oh, 9 books, and now wants to write erotica? I was thrown. She introduces it as a new metaphysical condition Anita suffers from as a result of being bonded with JC (who is apparently an incubus)... the ardeur ... yuck! ...more This book is probably the worst of the series so far. I couldn't even get through it. It got to the point where after chapter 8 (I think) I said screw it and skipped to the last few chapters and read them. You can't have a good book if you can't take the sex out and have a decent story line. Then there's the small fact that in the beginning, Blake was strong in her faith and believed in what she was brought up to believe through her religion. Now, she's pretty much her own god. Not to mention the This book is probably the worst of the series so far. I couldn't even get through it. It got to the point where after chapter 8 (I think) I said screw it and skipped to the last few chapters and read them. You can't have a good book if you can't take the sex out and have a decent story line. Then there's the small fact that in the beginning, Blake was strong in her faith and believed in what she was brought up to believe through her religion. Now, she's pretty much her own god. Not to mention the fact that she has to fuck everyone she comes into contact with. No matter how many times she gets attacked by a were, she never gets infected. She's practically a female version of Blade when it comes to the vampire issues she also deals with. Seriously Laurell K, bring the books back to what they were because now, you're just getting sad and pathetic. If it weren't for the fact that I hate stopping a series once I get involved, I'd stop. However, I have too much love for Asher and Jean-Claude to stop. ...more What started out as a promising series, ended in a whimper at this point (for me personally). Though I own five or six more paperbacks from this series, I refuse to waste my time on any more of these novels. Did the editor fall asleep at her job? For God's sake, the later books ramble on pointlessly! And YUCK the Ardeur. No! No! NO! If I have to read that word one more time, I swear, I might hurt someone. There is NO plot to the later books. NONE!! Plus the Anita of the earlier books is NOTHING l What started out as a promising series, ended in a whimper at this point (for me personally). Though I own five or six more paperbacks from this series, I refuse to waste my time on any more of these novels. Did the editor fall asleep at her job? For God's sake, the later books ramble on pointlessly! And YUCK the Ardeur. No! No! NO! If I have to read that word one more time, I swear, I might hurt someone. There is NO plot to the later books. NONE!! Plus the Anita of the earlier books is NOTHING like the later Anita. It's like she got a lobotomy and was pumped up with Viagra right after. If I sound angry, it's cause I am. Hamilton ruined a really good character. =X RIP Anita Blake. This is where we part ways. ...more Not very happy with this one. Before this book I already knew Anita had screwed up, don't need to be a genius to know that. Really a 1/2 star rating. One of the things I initially liked about the character of Anita Blake was that she had a moral compass, and her job as an animator (the kind that raises the dead, not the kind that draws Bambi), her consulting position with the cops, and her burgeoning skills as a necromancer all kept putting her in positions where she had to evaluate her behavior and decide if she was still one of the \"good guys.\" Not that I'm saying I'm the kind of person who carries multiple guns, hangs out with vampires and One of the things I initially liked about the character of Anita Blake was that she had a moral compass, and her job as an animator (the kind that raises the dead, not the kind that draws Bambi), her consulting position with the cops, and her burgeoning skills as a necromancer all kept putting her in positions where she had to evaluate her behavior and decide if she was still one of the \"good guys.\" Not that I'm saying I'm the kind of person who carries multiple guns, hangs out with vampires and/or shapeshifters, or has power over the dead, but I empathized with her conflicts. She did things she later regretted, yet knew she would have done exactly the same thing in the same circumstances, even knowing that she'd be torn up about it later. Most of the time if you asked her to justify her position on an issue, the only thing she could come up with it \"it's the right thing to do.\" I can understand that. I'm bad at parsing the philosophical underpinnings of my decisions, but I know \"right\" when I feel it. As the series continued, Ms. Hamilton started to lose me with what I call \"Ayla syndrome\": as in Jean Auel's Clan of the Cave Bear series, where the main character is credited with increasing numbers of skills and discoveries (Ayla discovers fire. Ayla invents sewing. Ayla tames horses), Anita is given new abilities at virtually every juncture. Up to a point, it makes sense: Anita puts herself into situations or asserts authority without perceiving the consequences of her actions, and only by virtue of dumb luck, strong skills with firearms, and her metaphysical abilities (and later training) she manages to avoid getting killed and most of the time saves the people she cares about, with the result that she usually wins the respect of former enemies (or kills them!) But as we went along and new skills and/or complications continued to pop up and get integrated into her world, it began to beggar the imagination that one person could encompass all of it. The only explanation I could come up with was either that these people Anita's supposed to love have lied and/or kept major important facts from her (which in past would have been cause for her to terminate the relationship - one way or another), or that Ms. Hamilton couldn't figure out how to keep things fresh without adding on new complications. The other thing that started out believable and degenerated to \"completely unacceptable\" (in my opinion) was Anita's sex life. Now, I like a good sex scene as much as anyone else, but the sexier Anita became, the more uncomfortable I grew. At the beginning, Anita was holding out for marriage, because that's the way she was raised and how she felt about sex. She acknowledged her attraction to certain men, but she was not into casual screwing around. With two extremely hot men wooing her, she didn't even sleep with one of them until the 6th book. The woman had standards. In NiC , tho', she gets overcome by the \"ardeur\", AKA, the lust-monkey power of her vampire lover, Jean-Paul, which compels her to fuck pretty much anyone. \"Oh, geez, honey, I know I used to be a good Catholic girl, but now that I have your love buttons on me I just can't say no to a nekkid man.\" It's very disappointing, especially since the book just previous to NiC , Obsidian Butterfly , was very good, almost a noir treatment, and I thought Hamilton had made a real leap in her writing. Maybe that was it. Or maybe Hamilton divorced her old husband and started fucking some young stud* and felt she had to write about her quality orgasms. Of course, she also started another series around the time NiC was published, and it's almost pure soft porn, so it's not like she didn't have an outlet for all the sexual energy she was putting out there. * Wholly speculative. Please, Ms. Hamilton, don't sue me. So I will say this: Hamilton's Anita Blake books are fun, the writing from the first ( Guilty Pleasures ) up to Obsidian Butterfly improved markedly, but don't bother with NiC (or Cerulean Sins , which is where I gave up entirely on the series), 'cause you'll be disappointed. So saith me. ...more Definitely where the Crazy Train finally departed. There were shades of things to come in \"The Killing Dance,\" and \"Blue Moon\" put a little more icing on the cake, but this book? It became official. We have Narcissus, a hermaphrodite hyena shifter (?!), a panwere (!?!?), and the \"marriage\" of the marks between the main trio, something that comes off as a cheap way to avoid the final mark but has the same effect. (And frankly, if it was meant to BE that final mark, then the whole \"immortality\" th Definitely where the Crazy Train finally departed. There were shades of things to come in \"The Killing Dance,\" and \"Blue Moon\" put a little more icing on the cake, but this book? It became official. We have Narcissus, a hermaphrodite hyena shifter (?!), a panwere (!?!?), and the \"marriage\" of the marks between the main trio, something that comes off as a cheap way to avoid the final mark but has the same effect. (And frankly, if it was meant to BE that final mark, then the whole \"immortality\" thing seems to have been forgotten, or Anita just didn't find it important enough to angst over.) And then we have Micah. Oh, do we ever have Micah. A leopard shifter with \"kitty\" eyes and hung like a horse (yes, this is a plot point. That will constantly be brought up in subsequent books. You've been warned) who was sent to basically infiltrate Anita's pard, he instead falls for the titular heroine. Because she's just that awesome, of course, which was something of a running gag in the previous books, but is now beginning to grow into ridiculous proportions. EVERY metaphysical so-and-so thinks Anita is awesome. Even the bloody panwere villain thinks she's awesome. In any event, there's almost painful sex (and despite what future edits may lead you to believe, was originally a fairly obvious near-rape scene), metaphysical sex, Anita's awakening ardeur, and other stuff happens. The only problem is, after the previous books where Anita was almost a prude, the sudden explosion of sexual awakening comes off as frankly ridiculous and almost crass, and detracts somewhat from the plot. And it only gets worse after this. ...more This is often noted as the first book in the great decline of Anita Blake, but I noticed that it many of my GR friends have given it 4/5 stars. For me, this book was a weak book. It was weak because it lacked the horror and fear element. My favorite Anita Blake books are the ones with a very strong horror background. This was also a weak book for me, because really I couldn\u2019t figure out why there was the conflict. It seemed to be a weak set up. And finally, the back and forth between Richard and This is often noted as the first book in the great decline of Anita Blake, but I noticed that it many of my GR friends have given it 4/5 stars. For me, this book was a weak book. It was weak because it lacked the horror and fear element. My favorite Anita Blake books are the ones with a very strong horror background. This was also a weak book for me, because really I couldn\u2019t figure out why there was the conflict. It seemed to be a weak set up. And finally, the back and forth between Richard and Anita was just tiresome. It added nothing to the story and honestly, if my best friend was going on and on the way Richard and Anita do \u2013 I would refuse to listen to it. Enough. Enough already. The sex didn\u2019t bother me, but there really wasn\u2019t a lot of it in this book. Anita\u2019s personality was still likeable to me, even though Richard with Anita annoyed me, I still like Richard and all of the men. I do like the addition of the leopards \u2013 but when is Anita going to raise the dead again? I likely will wait a good while before I go on to #11, and I may just skip ahead to the books that have Edward and Olaf in them. Oh and the idea of were snakes really really disgusts me. Bleh. ...more Please excuse my crassness, but from the moment he was first introduced, I always felt the only reason for the character of Micah to exist was so there was a male love interest more well endowed than Richard. That's it. That was, I still believe, the only reason Hamilton ever created this character. Clearly, I have some very strong opinions about this book. I have them, though, because this book was the beginning of the end of my years long love affair with the Anita Blake universe. To be clear, Please excuse my crassness, but from the moment he was first introduced, I always felt the only reason for the character of Micah to exist was so there was a male love interest more well endowed than Richard. That's it. That was, I still believe, the only reason Hamilton ever created this character. Clearly, I have some very strong opinions about this book. I have them, though, because this book was the beginning of the end of my years long love affair with the Anita Blake universe. To be clear, the sex scenes never bothered me. I still remember practically jumping for joy when Anita and Jean-Claude finally leaped that particular hurdle. No, the issue I started having, and what eventually put me off the series all together, are the characters Hamilton started throwing at us that were clearly no more than eye candy (however that works in book form). Two dimensional and insulting in their flatness, they were a far, far cry from the multifaceted creations that had kept me eagerly awaiting the next release for all those years spent as a fan. Any series that held my interest long enough for me to finally stop reading ten books in is nothing to thumb your nose at. All good things, though, must come to an end. And this was right about when I exited the ride. ...more 2% (sucky) plot 8% Anita gaining new powers 10% bringing other characters down (no one can be even nearly as awesome as Anita) 40% teeth-grindingly bad sex (everything from group to nearly-a-rape, YACK!) 40% praising Anita for being such a hot/strong/wise/powerful/special person = CRAP If I hadn't read Black Dagger Brotherhoods and Twilights, this would get 1 star. Edit: Oh yeah, erected penises waltzing around and \"wet pounding\"?... Bitch, please. Edit: I'll take it back, this totally deserves 1 star. Reviewed by Ciara *Warning: possible spoilers ahead.* After a long leave of absence from all her paranormal responsibilities, Anita is back in St Louis fulltime, and ends up neck deep in trouble straight away. Fans of Jean Claude will be happy to see he makes a long awaited return in this book. Anita has been avoiding him for the last six months while she figures out how she feels about him, and all the metaphysical complications that come with him. Anita needs his help to save local lycanthropes, w Reviewed by Ciara *Warning: possible spoilers ahead.* After a long leave of absence from all her paranormal responsibilities, Anita is back in St Louis fulltime, and ends up neck deep in trouble straight away. Fans of Jean Claude will be happy to see he makes a long awaited return in this book. Anita has been avoiding him for the last six months while she figures out how she feels about him, and all the metaphysical complications that come with him. Anita needs his help to save local lycanthropes, who are mysteriously disappearing. The smaller species have had their alphas vanish into thin air, and they\u2019ve turned to Anita because they\u2019re reluctant to go to the bed. Richard, her former fianc\u00e9e/werewolf king, also makes a reappearance, after a long absence, but is typically angst-ridden and moral (yawn!). The time spent apart has not been good for their triumvirate of power, and there are holes in their auras which need to be fixed. Can you guess how they are fixed? That\u2019s right. Sexy time. I\u2019m all for the sexy time, but the mystical and magical aspects of these books, like the auras and spirituality, are very off-putting for me, at least. I tend not to enjoy anything spiritual, or magical. As part of Anita\u2019s renewed ties with Jean Claude, she develops an unusual side- effect, the ardeur. It\u2019s similar to the bloodlust all vampires deal with, but it\u2019s not blood she lusts for, it\u2019s sex. So yes, there is quite a bit of sex in this book. Well, almost. Anita\u2019s morals get in her way, and the reader\u2019s, quite a bit, so there\u2019s a lot of sexual fondling followed by a lot of overthinking and guilt. As Jean Claude says at one point, \u201cI am glad you are the woman that you are, but there are moments when I wish that you could simply enjoy something without being chased around the room by your guilt and your morals afterwards.\u201d I can\u2019t help but get the feeling that in these early books, <---A>Laurell K. Hamilton</---A> is either uncomfortable writing sex scenes, or she is overly concerned that sex will come to define her books. There\u2019s a lot of almost-sex, which is just frustrating. Anita becomes increasingly perfect and unusual in this book. She gains even powers and abilities that no one has ever thought possible. Some very interesting and important characters are introduced in this book, most notably Micah, an alpha wereleopard who hits it off with Anita, in a very big way. I enjoyed the book, though I was disappointed the series returned to the sex and angst it\u2019s become filled with lately. Obsidian Butterfly was a great break from that, but now Anita is filled with guilt and doubt, and Richard is filled with guilt and doubt, and it\u2019s all too angsty. The book is a major turning point in the series overall, as Anita becomes more and more involved with the monsters. I know many people regard this as the death of the Anita we knew in the first few books, but I enjoy all of the series. It\u2019s something you really have to make your mind up about for yourself. Also, a brief postscript; does anyone else who reads these books find the men irritatingly feminine? Anita is quite short, and so are most of the men around her. I don\u2019t mean short for men, I mean these guys would be considered short if they were women. Many of them have long feminine hair, and nondescript but feminine faces, which Anita describes as being saved from complete femininity by the shape of a brow or the slant of their jaw. I dunno, I just like my men very definitely masculine. ...more There are 3 episodes in this novel showcasing: 'Anita Blake Vampire Hunter' the opening rescue (unsurprisingly in an S+M club) the retaliation at her home about 60% through the book and the final showdown - no prizes for guessing where. The rest of the novel is 'Anita Blake, Furry Succubus'. To be honest I've read so many forum comments about Anita Blake turning into the 'Vag of Doom' that it was a relief to finally find the novel where it all comes together/falls apart depending on your perspec There are 3 episodes in this novel showcasing: 'Anita Blake Vampire Hunter' the opening rescue (unsurprisingly in an S+M club) the retaliation at her home about 60% through the book and the final showdown - no prizes for guessing where. The rest of the novel is 'Anita Blake, Furry Succubus'. To be honest I've read so many forum comments about Anita Blake turning into the 'Vag of Doom' that it was a relief to finally find the novel where it all comes together/falls apart depending on your perspective. On a positive note there was lots of pillow talk with great characters like Asher, Nathaniel and Jean Claude, and Anita's wardrobe has finally been influenced by Edward. On the negative side she has had a total personality revamp: few references to necromancy, she's lost her assassin's edge and gained a tendency to fall into bed with any new furry male that crosses her path. To be honest none of that bothered me - I still think that Laurell Hamilton is a better writer than most of the PR/UF I've been reading lately - this should be a 3.5, but I have to say that consistency is not a strong point in this novel - there seem to be lots of unresolved/conflicting moments: Blake has gained shapeshfter skills but is still easier to hit/attack than she was as a 'human' in books 1-10. Narcissus disappears for most of the novel and his were-scene takeovers seems unconvincing. The ardeur seems to come and go despite a huge build up by JC, and his own sudden lack of control seemed a bit bizarre given his previous history. And Blake suddenly remembers how to use necromancy to fatal effect in the final showdown, having had all sorts of survival issues previously. All in all definately an adult novel; my reservations in the past have been that Hamilton has had to increase the gore factor in each novel. In this one she has replaced most of that with sex ...and then more sex. Hamilton has clearly had fun writing this, and I guess although I would feel more comfortable with a better balance between the two, it still held my interest. I like Anita's world and it is probably about time the girl lightened up a bit, even if that means she's more succubus than assassin for a while! ...more", "Title": "Narcissus in Chains"},
