{"Comments": "I love <---A>Jonathan Tropper</---A>! I love how real his characters are, how easily you fall into his world and fall in love with his characters. It gives me hope that maybe mankind isn't all that bad. I'm so glad my coworker randomly bought his books then lent them to me (<---B>without even reading them first</---B>) because otherwise I might not even know about these books! He makes me laugh out loud, and I love his dialogue: \u201cWe don\u2019t have twin telepathy.\u201d \u201cOf course we do,<---M> it\u2019s just subtle</---M>, like...flesh-colored nail po I love Jonathan Tropper! I love how real his characters are, how easily you fall into his world and fall in love with his characters. It gives me hope that maybe mankind isn't all that bad. I'm so glad my coworker randomly bought his books then lent them to me (without even reading them first) because otherwise I might not even know about these books! He makes me laugh out loud, and I love his dialogue: \u201cWe don\u2019t have twin telepathy.\u201d \u201cOf course we do, it\u2019s just subtle, like...<---F>flesh-colored nail polish</---F>.\u201d I grin. \u201cLike...central air.\u201d \u201cLike...a white wine buzz.\u201d \u201cLike...Mel Gibson\u2019s Australian accent in Lethal Weapon.\u201d I love how he writes pieces into his work that only people of a certain age group might understand, like how there wouldn't be anyone holding up boom boxes in the middle of the rain. I'm just in love with him. I hope he writes and writes and never stops. ...more You know you're in Jonathan Tropper's world when: - All the women are painfully, and unbelievably beautiful - Every character talks like they're from a snappy 90's sitcom - the protagonist is shy and sensitive, snarky and bumbeling, lost in the 80's, has a dysfunctional family, and a father who has died or suffered a stroke - there is much graphic objectification of women, yet somehow the protagonist is still a sensitive soul who loves women so so much - you feel as though you've read one, you've rea You know you're in Jonathan Tropper's world when: - All the women are painfully, and unbelievably beautiful - Every character talks like they're from a snappy 90's sitcom - the protagonist is shy and sensitive, snarky and bumbeling, lost in the 80's, has a dysfunctional family, and a father who has died or suffered a stroke - there is much graphic objectification of women, yet somehow the protagonist is still a sensitive soul who loves women so so much - you feel as though you've read one, you've read them all That being said (and perhaps you wonder why I am STILL reading him - well, I took out a bunch of his stuff from the library, and how can I not get my money's worth), this one did have more merit than his usual - I even found myself tearing up on occasion. But I still wish not everyone in the book needed to share everything with everyone and that there would be more maturity and divrsity to the writing. ...more I don't know why it took me so long to get back to read another book by Jonathan Tropper. A couple of years back I read his latest book This Is Where I Leave You a couple years back and it was my favorite book of the year. There was something simply sizzling about Tropper's writing - razor sharp, witty, raw, funny, painful, astute... the exclamatory adjectives could just go on and on. I guess part of my fear was diluting that particular reading experience, but after a very informal online chat a I don't know why it took me so long to get back to read another book by Jonathan Tropper. A couple of years back I read his latest book This Is Where I Leave You a couple years back and it was my favorite book of the year. There was something simply sizzling about Tropper's writing - razor sharp, witty, raw, funny, painful, astute... the exclamatory adjectives could just go on and on. I guess part of my fear was diluting that particular reading experience, but after a very informal online chat about Tropper I decided I was way overdue to go back and read one of his older books. There was a lot of familiar Tropper ground in How To Talk To A Widower - a down on their luck male protagonist experiencing a great loss (you can take a good guess at it given the title) desperately trying to clamor his way back to a some semblance of a \"normal\" life. This being quite difficult to do with himself often being his own worst enemy, but not helped along by his highly (and equally) dysfunctional family and friends. So, the thing is, that description could work for either This Is Where I Leave You or Widower ... so I am kind of in a quandary as I loved the former so, so much and thought it was new and fresh and bold... now seems quite derivative of latter, a book that preceded it. My fear of dilution did come true, but yet I still find it nearly impossible to fault Tropper for writing such amazing works that are so honest (painfully honest) about the human condition and that leave you laughing and crying during the same reading session. Ultimately, I am giving the edge to my first Tropper, This Is Where I Leave You , which I rated 5 stars... giving Widower a solid 4.5 star rating and hedging my bets and rounding down to 4 stars for Goodreads purposes as I hear from my fellow Tropper-ites that his The Book of Joe is the best of all his works. But a extremely solid effort, that officially and quickly boosts Tropper onto my \"favorite author\" list. ...more Wow! I feel very fortunate to have found a blurb about this book on the Borders newsletter. I read this on my Kindle and I was so impressed. Doug has lost his wife and friends and family members feel that it is more than time for him to get out their dating again. Doug doesn't quite feel that way yet but allows his twin to talk him it to it as we progress through the book. Jonathan Tropper, the author, so beautifully describes Doug's feeling of loss that you feel that he must have experienced th Wow! I feel very fortunate to have found a blurb about this book on the Borders newsletter. I read this on my Kindle and I was so impressed. Doug has lost his wife and friends and family members feel that it is more than time for him to get out their dating again. Doug doesn't quite feel that way yet but allows his twin to talk him it to it as we progress through the book. Jonathan Tropper, the author, so beautifully describes Doug's feeling of loss that you feel that he must have experienced this himself or has interviewed someone who has been through a profound loss. Also his witt is first class. Particularly enjoyable is a chapter where Doug meets his dead wife's ex-husband to talk about Russ (the son of Hailey, his dead wife, and Jim, Hailey's ex-husband.) Jonathan Tropper writes the dialogue between the two men along with what they are really thinking about each other. The end of the book also has a surprise event that I never expected to read. I have discovered that Tropper has written two more books. I will look forward to reading them and recommend this one heartily to everyone who enjoys a good book. Hope your library has this one! ...more A minha opini\u00e3o em v\u00eddeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6UGf... Que surpresa deliciosa! Um \"lad lit\" super bem escrito, original e com uma fam\u00edlia disfuncional t\u00e3o amorosa! J\u00e1 conhecia o Jonathan Tropper do \"This is where I leave you\" e este n\u00e3o ficou atr\u00e1s. Quero ler mais! This is the third Tropper novel I have read, the first being This is Where I Leave You. I liked both of them a lot. They are poignant, sweet, funny, vicious, and insightful. His family dinner scenes are classic. They have you laughing out loud only to get sucker punched by the perceptiveness. He does this through the classic comedian's technique of hyperbole, but it's not exaggerated so much that it becomes caricature. We've all seen elements of his dysfunctional family in ourselves and others. H This is the third Tropper novel I have read, the first being This is Where I Leave You. I liked both of them a lot. They are poignant, sweet, funny, vicious, and insightful. His family dinner scenes are classic. They have you laughing out loud only to get sucker punched by the perceptiveness. He does this through the classic comedian's technique of hyperbole, but it's not exaggerated so much that it becomes caricature. We've all seen elements of his dysfunctional family in ourselves and others. His books (from what I've read his others do also) also relate to how we deal with death; in this one Doug Parker, age twenty-nine, wallows in self-pity after the death of his wife, Hailey, in a plane crash. She was older than he and came with a twelve-year-old son, Russ. At the dinner celebrating his sister Deb's upcoming marriage, as things go from bad to worse, Russ [Doug's stepson] excuses himself for a minute, is gone for fifteen, and comes back with his eyes glazed over. \u201cYou had to get high right now?\u201d I whisper to him. \u201cIt was so important?\u201d \u201cIt was a biological imperative, dude. It is fucking intense in here.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s just dinner with the family.\u201d \u201cCome on, man. It\u2019s like there\u2019s a hunk of C4 strapped to the table and we\u2019re all just waiting to see when it will detonate. I can\u2019t believe you dragged me here.\u201d It\u2019s a tricky enough business forming a friendship with a pissed-off teenager under the best of circumstances. Now try it when you\u2019re sleeping with his mother, when you are, quite literally, a motherfucker. Let me tell you, that requires a whole other skill set. When I first moved in, I knew I\u2019d have to make an effort to bond with Russ so that Hailey could feel good about the whole arrangement. If she didn\u2019t, it wasn\u2019t like she was going to give her kid the boot. Last one hired, first one fired. And so I applied myself like a laid-back uncle, giving him lifts to school or the mall to meet his friends, taking him to the occasional weeknight movie, editing his term papers, and, more recently, taking him out for driving practice in my secondhand Saab. I was a lazy boy and I am a lazy man, and the beauty of the situation was that I wasn\u2019t really expected to be a parent to Russ, which, based on the limited wisdom I have to offer, was a win-win situation for all involved. They had not been married long and Doug refuses to admit that life goes on: his twin sister is leaving her husband after becoming pregnant and his younger sister, Deb, is getting married to Mike whom she met at Doug's shiva for Hailey, a source of much resentment. Then there is his dad who has just survived a personality-changing stroke. Doug, a columnist, has begin writing a column which is becoming increasingly popular, called \"<+++>How to Talk to a Widower</+++>.\" Doug has become a self-imposed social outcast, spending his time throwing rocks (and cell phone) at the rabbits in his yard, saying the kinds of things I guess we all wish we had the guts to. \"I lost something after Hailey died. I\u2019m not sure what to call it, but it\u2019s the device that stops you from telling the truth when people ask you how you\u2019re doing, that vital valve that keeps your deeper, truer emotions under lock and key. I don\u2019t know exactly when I lost it, or how to get it back, but for now, when it comes to tact, civility, and discretion, I\u2019m an accident waiting to happen, over and over again.\" So you get marvelously delicious scenes like this one: \"... few weeks ago, a Jehovah\u2019s Witness or a Jew for Jesus or some other freak on happy pills selling God in a pamphlet showed up at my door, smiling like a cartoon, and said, \u201cHave you let God into your life?\u201d \u201cGod can fuck himself.\u201d He smiled beatifically at me, like I\u2019d just complimented his crappy JCPenney suit. \u201cI once felt the way you do, brother.\u201d \u201cYou\u2019re not my brother,\u201d I hissed at him. \u201cAnd you have never felt like this. If you\u2019d ever felt like this, you would still feel like this, because it doesn\u2019t go away.\" And the scene where he goes out on a date with a divorcee who has two young children is priceless. Let's just say part of it involves him noting that he usually doesn't mop up vomit until the third date. ...more Doug Parker is a 29-year old widower. He lost his wife Hayley (who was older) in a plane crash and has spent the last year avoiding life in Jonathan Tropper's \"<+++>How to Talk to a Widower</+++>.\" And while much of Doug's world is defined by his depression and anger over losing Hayley, it's not the only thing going on his life. His twin sister Clair is pregnant and leaving her husband, his father suffered a stroke and has good and bad days and his younger sister met her fiancee at the shiva for Hayley. And Doug Parker is a 29-year old widower. He lost his wife Hayley (who was older) in a plane crash and has spent the last year avoiding life in Jonathan Tropper's \"How to Talk to a Widower.\" And while much of Doug's world is defined by his depression and anger over losing Hayley, it's not the only thing going on his life. His twin sister Clair is pregnant and leaving her husband, his father suffered a stroke and has good and bad days and his younger sister met her fiancee at the shiva for Hayley. And that's before you get to a rebelling step-son and Doug's decision to try living life again--if by living you mean, sleeping with the wife of a good friend, dating again and falling for the guidance counsellor at his step-son's school. Tropper channels a Nick-Hornby-like vibe with first-person narrator Doug. Doug makes choices he admittedly knows are wrong, but continues the path due to his perceived pain and anguish over losing Hayley. Doug is, at times, selfish and the story is about his growing up. It's about coming to grips with the pain and realizing that Hayley would want him to continue living his life. Now, it all sounds a bit dark and it is. But Tropper has filled this book with so many memorable characters that there are light moments sprinkled in the story to keep the reader from getting totally depressed. The circus of women around the newly-dating Doug is worth the price of admission alone. Funny, sarcastic and sardonic all at the same time, \"How To Talk to a Widower\" is an ideal book for guys and the women who want to understand them. And don't let the new cover fool you. It looks like a light romance novel, but underneath is a story of a guy dealing with his demons. And while there is some romance, I wouldn't say it's a romance in the strictest sense of the word. ...more 4.5 Stars 29 year old Doug Parker was barely getting his life together when his wife Hailey passed away. Now she\u2019s gone \u2013 and so is he. It\u2019s been over a year and he is barely functioning. He rarely leaves the house and avoids any interaction with his family (including his stepson who was also left behind when Hailey died). The only thing he\u2019s managed to do is morph his monthly magazine column from a \u201chow to \u2026\u201d regarding celebrities to a \u201chow to talk to a widower\u201d. Doug\u2019s twin sister, Clair, decid 4.5 Stars 29 year old Doug Parker was barely getting his life together when his wife Hailey passed away. Now she\u2019s gone \u2013 and so is he. It\u2019s been over a year and he is barely functioning. He rarely leaves the house and avoids any interaction with his family (including his stepson who was also left behind when Hailey died). The only thing he\u2019s managed to do is morph his monthly magazine column from a \u201chow to \u2026\u201d regarding celebrities to a \u201chow to talk to a widower\u201d. Doug\u2019s twin sister, Clair, decides it\u2019s high time Doug get back into the real world that includes both leaving the house AND getting on the dating circuit again. There just aren\u2019t enough words to express how much I love Jonathan Tropper. His characters seem so familiar to me, his dry humor makes me belly laugh, and his understated dramatic moments make me feel all of the feelings. I\u2019m attempting to spread out the remaining unread-by-me Tropper books at this point so I don\u2019t find myself having withdrawal symptoms when I come to the end. Get writing, Jonathan, \u2018cause I\u2019m waiting for new stuff! ...more 3.5 Stars. Not my favorite JT novel, but still good and filled with his usual sarcasm and wit. He truly does have the knack for writing about a difficult subject and turning it into something quirky and humorous. Enjoyed it! Every now and then I feel the urge to 'binge' read. I choose an author and I try to read everything that author has written. Over the last few months I have been binging and one of the authors I chose was Jonathan Tropper. I started with his novel, 'How to Talk to a Widower' and it turned out to be a great place to start. The story begins with several short lines that immediately caught my attention and lingered in my mind\u2026. \"I had a wife. Her name is Hailey. Now she's gone and so am I.\" These li Every now and then I feel the urge to 'binge' read. I choose an author and I try to read everything that author has written. Over the last few months I have been binging and one of the authors I chose was Jonathan Tropper. I started with his novel, 'How to Talk to a Widower' and it turned out to be a great place to start. The story begins with several short lines that immediately caught my attention and lingered in my mind\u2026. \"I had a wife. Her name is Hailey. Now she's gone and so am I.\" These lines were short and simple\u2026 yet startling in their simplicity. Clearly, the narrator .. who turns out to be a 29 year old widower named Doug Parker\u2026 was in extreme pain over the loss of his wife. I wanted to know more.. what happened to her? I wanted to know where his story would lead. Over the course of reading Jonathan Tropper's novels, I learned that he creates the kind of male characters that all women want to talk to and confide in when they don't understand the men in their lives. His male characters are, of course, appropriately masculine on the outside, have a wicked sense of humor (often dark) ; but most importantly, on the inside they have an emotional maturity and self-awareness.. or at least they are in the PROCESS of becoming emotionally mature and self-aware. Doug Parker, of course, is one of those characters. Doug is grieving the loss of his wife,Hailey, who perished in a plane crash. Doug is coping with his loss as best he can. He is in that stage where he numbly moves through each day but not at all living in the present. Instead his mind is replaying in a constant loop the day he met his wife at work\u2026 their life together up until the point she died. He is more comfortable living in the past because he realizes that if he stays in the past where Hailey is alive and the two are happy together,then he doesn't have to experience the pain of his present existence without her. Of course, Doug cannot go on this way indefinitely. As a matter of fact, in short order, his teenaged stepson Russ, who has gotten into a huge fight with his father shows up on his doorstep. Russ, like Doug, is grieving but he is demonstrating his grief in a very different way.. getting into fights at school and ditching school entirely. Doug feels guilt and he feels a sense of responsibility toward Russ\u2026 what would Hailey want him to do to help Russ? Before Doug can really get a handle on the situation with Russ, he finds another refugee at his front door.. his twin sister Clair, who has not only left her husband but is carrying a secret of sorts. She needs shelter and a place to think her problems through to a solution. Of course, to further complicate things\u2026 Clair has decided that Doug has been grieving long enough. He needs to get on with life and she is going to help.. by playing matchmaker for him. It quickly becomes clear that Doug can no longer remain in that 'limbo-like' existence he has placed himself. He is being thrust back into his life\u2026 ready or not\u2026 like it or not\u2026 by the family members who need him and toward whom he feels responsible. By immersing himself in his family's problems, Doug begins his re-entry into the world. Sure, his re-entry isn't without bumps and snags along the way. Doug finds, much to his surprise and perhaps dismay, that being a widower actually makes him quite popular with certain women\u2026 I suppose there are certain women who sense his vulnerability and want to take care of him. Doug ends up getting involved in an inappropriate and ultimately dangerous relationship with a woman who is dealing with some heavy problems of her own and this relationship could have proven catastrophic for him. 'How to Talk to a Widower' had the potential to be a heavy and emotionally draining story; but Jonathan Tropper skillfully injected moments of humor and downright absurdity into Doug's story. And isn't 'real' life full of those humorous and absurd moments as well? The story isn't tied up neatly and perfectly in the end but I did come away with the sense that Doug is ready to embrace and face what life throws his way. ...more There have been many great \u201cstorytellers\u201d throughout history. Unfortunately, there have been very few authors blessed with BOTH the talent to \u201ctell a story,\u201d as well as the ability to truly \u201ccapture the human condition.\u201d Jonathan Tropper is one such author. He is the rare author whose novels, despite their brilliance & intellectual undertones, are still relatable to the recreational reader. A single sentence by Jonathan Tropper can cause a reader to roar in laughter, while crying sad heart There have been many great \u201cstorytellers\u201d throughout history. Unfortunately, there have been very few authors blessed with BOTH the talent to \u201ctell a story,\u201d as well as the ability to truly \u201ccapture the human condition.\u201d Jonathan Tropper is one such author. He is the rare author whose novels, despite their brilliance & intellectual undertones, are still relatable to the recreational reader. A single sentence by Jonathan Tropper can cause a reader to roar in laughter, while crying sad heartfelt tears. His characters are loveable, flawed, pained, realistic & SO INCREDIBLY EASY TO ROOT FOR. I would wholeheartedly recommend the novel\u2014 How to Talk to a Widower \u2014to anyone & everyone (males & females alike). The protagonist of this novel\u2014 Doug Parker\u2014 was tragically widowed at the age of 28, after losing his wife in a horrific accident. Over a year later, circumstances have finally forced him to \u201cattempt\u201d to mend his life. Reading about Doug\u2019s grief & his journey towards acceptance and renewal will tug at your heartstrings & make you weep for this broken man, all while causing you to laugh uproariously & to frantically turn pages in anticipation of the surprises that lie ahead. *5/5 stars* \u201cI had a wife, her name was Hailey. Now she\u2019s gone. And so am I.\u201d \u201cBut just because something is true doesn't mean I'm ready to face it today. Sometimes the only truth people can handle is the one they woke up with that morning. And this morning, like every morning, I woke up with PAIN. So do me a favor and don't f*ck with it\u201d \u201cPity, I've learned, is like a fart. You can tolerate your own, but you simply can't stand anyone else's.\u201d \u201cLife knocks us all on our ass at some point. And then we get back up and we make some changes because that\u2019s what men do. We adapt. And when we\u2019re done adapting we\u2019re better equipped to survive\u201d \u201cAnd soon the bass drums are pounding and the guitars are riffing, and there\u2019s nothing to do but sing along to the crude lyrics, purging our collective nerves in the thunderous, throbbing music. I want to rock and roll all night, and party every day! / I want to rock and roll all night, and party every day! And even Stephen joins in, bouncing his knee and nodding to the beat as he does, and we\u2019re all singing, at full volume, rocking in our seats and banging on upholstery, trying to empty our bellies of every last bit of nerves. The song ends too soon, before anything transcendent can occur, before we can be saved by Rock and Roll. None of us knows the words to the next one, I mean, it\u2019s KISS after all, and who really knows more than one or two KISS songs? \u201d ~ Jonathan Tropper, How To Talk To A Widower ...more I think we are all familiar with the stereotype of the so called \"modern\" writer: the kind of guy or girl who sits at Starbucks, smokes a Silk Cut (or a Djarum or other aromaticized poison if he or she is hip enough) and types away on a MacBook. The type of text that comes out is is either dick/chick lit, meaning witty novels about the complicated relationship between men and women, or some quasi post-modern bullshit which nobody understands and everybody praises for exactly that reason. Sometim I think we are all familiar with the stereotype of the so called \"modern\" writer: the kind of guy or girl who sits at Starbucks, smokes a Silk Cut (or a Djarum or other aromaticized poison if he or she is hip enough) and types away on a MacBook. The type of text that comes out is is either dick/chick lit, meaning witty novels about the complicated relationship between men and women, or some quasi post-modern bullshit which nobody understands and everybody praises for exactly that reason. Sometimes, the two are combined to results unknown. If you watch TV you propably saw such writers on popular shows. Ten years ago Carrie Bradshaw was the queen - she was intelligent, independant and wrote her own column in a popular newspaper, which eventually got published in a book form. Now, Hank Moody seems to have taken over, I don't known why, most propably because he's played by David Duchovny. Jonathan Tropper is such a guy. His novel has to deal with the complicated relationships between men and women, and unlike many others when he tries to be funny he is funny, when he tries to be observant he is observant, and when he tries to be poingnant he is poignant. it's truly a rare experience nowaydays to read a book that will literally make you laugh out loud at one page and teary-eyed at the next. Tropper describes the overwhelming sense of loss so beautifully and truthfully that it's impossible not to relate to the pain and sorrow of the main character. We care for him deeply, and simply wish that the guy could be happy, once again. What stops me from giving this book a perfect rating is its purely American (or rather Hollywood) mentality. Everyone is beautiful, succesful and rich. Doug, the main character, is of course handsome, has a beautiful, protective sister, makes out with his hot neighbour, and even his mom is a hot chica. There are too many subplots that are so interesting but never completely fleshed out: Doug's stepson is a predictable hipster whose dilemmas are solved way too easily, the melodramatic transformation of some characters screams \"screeenplay!\" so loud that it's impossible to ignore. However, for the sheer amount of emotion Tropper manages to cover in this work the book is worth reading. While not terribly memorable, it is definitely funny, poingnant and moving - a feat which many writers failed to manage, and which Tropper conveys smoothly and with style. I will most certainly read his other works. ...more I was so excited to receive a pre-released copy of this book (it's slated to hit stores on 7/17). Jonathan Tropper's name keeps popping up whenever I type in a search for Nick Hornby/Tom Perrotta, and his books have received good reviews. This one was supposed to be amazing. I read it in a few nights and while I couldn't put it down, I felt robbed toward the end of the book. I turned the last page and thought, \"That's it?\" The part that kills me is Tropper is a great author-- poignant, funny, and I was so excited to receive a pre-released copy of this book (it's slated to hit stores on 7/17). Jonathan Tropper's name keeps popping up whenever I type in a search for Nick Hornby/Tom Perrotta, and his books have received good reviews. This one was supposed to be amazing. I read it in a few nights and while I couldn't put it down, I felt robbed toward the end of the book. I turned the last page and thought, \"That's it?\" The part that kills me is Tropper is a great author-- poignant, funny, and observant. But he put too many subplots into a relatively short book, generalizing the characters he had because there were simply too many to go into: protagonist Doug, his mother, his father, Claire, Debbie, Laney, Dave, Brooke, Russ, Jim, and of course, his late-wife Hailey. I really wanted to know more about their stories, particularly the father/mother, but Tropper threw too much to the wind and didn't give enough to anchor it back. I wish he had either omitted some characters or expanded on them much more, as in giving an additional 100-200 pages. I'm going to give this book another read--maybe I expected too much off the bat--and I would definitely still recommend it to others, because Tropper really IS, as I said, a great author. I just hope I get to see more character analysis in his other books. ...more Great story. There are a few parts of the book that can bring tears to your eyes, but Doug is a young widower... Most of the book is quick witted and funny. Doug is in his 20's and marries a women about 11 years older than he is (her name is Hailey, spelled the same as my daughter) with a teenage son. She dies about 2 years into their marriage. The story is mainly the year after his wife's death. Doug's relationship with his teenage step-son, pregnant twin sister whose life is coming undone, anot Great story. There are a few parts of the book that can bring tears to your eyes, but Doug is a young widower... Most of the book is quick witted and funny. Doug is in his 20's and marries a women about 11 years older than he is (her name is Hailey, spelled the same as my daughter) with a teenage son. She dies about 2 years into their marriage. The story is mainly the year after his wife's death. Doug's relationship with his teenage step-son, pregnant twin sister whose life is coming undone, another sister who is planning a perfect wedding, drunk actress mother but who is loving, father whose mind is going, friend of his wife's that wants to do more than bring him meals once a week, and dealing with his overwhelming grief. Which involves lots of alcohol, throwing rocks at bunnies, crying outbursts, and movies during the day. No boring parts in this book! ...more After reading all of Tropper's books, its interesting to notice his progression and certain kinds of scenes that are unique to him. Tropper loves setting up utterly ridiculous scenes, usually involving family, that are totally hilarious, I believe there was one in book of joe involving a family dinner and a parrot. I really like his writing style. This book is a bit of an emotional rollercoaster, going from truly sad to laughing out loud a few pages later. All in all I think this is a great read After reading all of Tropper's books, its interesting to notice his progression and certain kinds of scenes that are unique to him. Tropper loves setting up utterly ridiculous scenes, usually involving family, that are totally hilarious, I believe there was one in book of joe involving a family dinner and a parrot. I really like his writing style. This book is a bit of an emotional rollercoaster, going from truly sad to laughing out loud a few pages later. All in all I think this is a great read, out of all of his books I'd say this is #2, book of joe still claims the top spot in my opinion. It's the kind of book that makes you want to call your friends and read passages out loud, the kind that makes you forget where you are and you laugh out loud and get annoyed when people make you stop reading to try to explain what made you laugh, seriously, you need to just read the book. ...more O PRIMEIRO LAD-LIT A GENTE NUNCA ESQUECE!! Sabe quando voc\u00ea se identifica com o narrador, gosta dos personagens e das rela\u00e7\u00f5es entre eles, se interessa pelo drama proposto e consome uma hist\u00f3ria em poucos dias? Ent\u00e3o... Em Como Falar Com Um Vi\u00favo, Tropper mostra o motivo de ser considerado por muitos o rei do lad-lit. Com um pano de fundo dram\u00e1tico, ele cria situa\u00e7\u00f5es hil\u00e1rias e desperta emo\u00e7\u00f5es conflitantes no leitor. Juro que eu ia do c\u00e9u ao inferno durante a leitura! Um romance emocionante, com u O PRIMEIRO LAD-LIT A GENTE NUNCA ESQUECE!! Sabe quando voc\u00ea se identifica com o narrador, gosta dos personagens e das rela\u00e7\u00f5es entre eles, se interessa pelo drama proposto e consome uma hist\u00f3ria em poucos dias? Ent\u00e3o... Em Como Falar Com Um Vi\u00favo, Tropper mostra o motivo de ser considerado por muitos o rei do lad-lit. Com um pano de fundo dram\u00e1tico, ele cria situa\u00e7\u00f5es hil\u00e1rias e desperta emo\u00e7\u00f5es conflitantes no leitor. Juro que eu ia do c\u00e9u ao inferno durante a leitura! Um romance emocionante, com um tom cinematogr\u00e1fico, sobre um jovem preso no luto em busca de uma fagulha de esperan\u00e7a e de est\u00edmulo parar encontrar um recome\u00e7o. ...more \u201cThere are no happy endings, just happy days, happy moments. The only real ending is death, and trust me, no one dies happy. And the price of not dying is that things change all the time, and the only thing you can count on is that there\u2019s not a thing you can do about it.\u201d \u2014 Jonathan Tropper, How To Talk To a Widower During the summer, I read This Is Where I Leave You. I really enjoyed it. It was a great comic novel, good dialect, good progression, a lot of heart. I even talked about how Tropper \u201cThere are no happy endings, just happy days, happy moments. The only real ending is death, and trust me, no one dies happy. And the price of not dying is that things change all the time, and the only thing you can count on is that there\u2019s not a thing you can do about it.\u201d \u2014 Jonathan Tropper, How To Talk To a Widower During the summer, I read This Is Where I Leave You. I really enjoyed it. It was a great comic novel, good dialect, good progression, a lot of heart. I even talked about how Tropper trumped Jonathan Coe, who is regarded as one of the great comic writers of his generation. So I was looking forward to reading this. Tropper feels like a nice break between my heavier reading, something to read through quickly, but without having to compromise on good writing (much like how I feel about Jodi Picoult). But I was sorely disappointed. The book was boring and predictable, the writing mostly mundane. There was a couple of good lines, but mostly it was an exercise in whether I could keep reading after being disappointed again and again. The ending tried too much to shock and then appease, when in reality it did neither. I wish I had read it before This Is Were I Leave You rather than after, so that I could at least appreciate that he has improved hugely, but the reality is, I was so bored by this that if I had read it first, I don\u2019t know if I would have picked up another Tropper. As soon as I finished this book, I walked to my nearest Oxfam and gave it away. Maybe there at least it\u2019ll do some good. ...more I bought this book Monday morning and was done by it on Tuesday afternoon. One of those perfect miracles in which I enjoyed every last thing about it: the characters, the writing, the pace. It would make me laugh and then out of nowhere, it would have me tearing up. Just a perfect combination of everything that makes me want to read. Very low impact, but Jonathan Tropper's book are perfect light reading. I was reading this in a cafe the other morning and my server was a young Russian woman. She asked what I was reading and when I showed her the cover she said, \"Oh yes, he has good books. They are like girl books, but not too girl.\" I said, \"Yes! It's chick lit for smart people.\" That pretty much sums it up. Well this was nice. I admit to shedding a tear at the end, but I suspect that was just as much sleep deprivation together with life of the characters. I enjoyed it and it would be a goo beach read if someone needs one :) \u0422\u0440\u043e\u043f\u043f\u0435\u0440 \u043e\u0447\u0435\u043d\u044c \u0445\u043e\u0440\u043e\u0448\u0438\u0439, \u043d\u043e \u0443 \u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e \u043c\u043e\u0436\u043d\u043e \u043f\u0440\u043e\u0447\u0435\u0441\u0442\u044c \u043e\u0434\u043d\u0443 \u043a\u043d\u0438\u0433\u0443 \u0438 \u0431\u043e\u043b\u044c\u0448\u0435 \u043d\u0435 \u0447\u0438\u0442\u0430\u0442\u044c, \u0442.\u043a. \u0433\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0438 \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u043e\u0434\u0438\u043d\u0430\u043a\u043e\u0432\u044b\u0435. This book was indeed poignant, as the cover blurb claims it to be. I HAD A WIFE. HER NAME WAS HAILEY. NOW SHE'S GONE. And so am I The story of Doug, a 29 year old widower who loses his considerably older wife of 2 years, to a plane crash. Even after a year he has not come to terms with his loss, and day after day he reminisces over their short life together, and tries to pull himself together. And this is described with scathing humor and sarcasm directed at self, while he is on a futile attempt This book was indeed poignant, as the cover blurb claims it to be. I HAD A WIFE. HER NAME WAS HAILEY. NOW SHE'S GONE. And so am I The story of Doug, a 29 year old widower who loses his considerably older wife of 2 years, to a plane crash. Even after a year he has not come to terms with his loss, and day after day he reminisces over their short life together, and tries to pull himself together. And this is described with scathing humor and sarcasm directed at self, while he is on a futile attempt to mask his raw pain in bumbling acts of foolishness. To add confusion, Hailey's 16 year old son, Russ, becomes a juvenile delinquent, has issues with his biological father and comes to live with Doug, whom he considers a pal. Doug's cranky and classy sisters, Claire and Pooh, add to the mayhem.. and along with all this are the other close family members, including his father who is suffering from senile dementia. I loved the way Doug portrays his day to day attempt at surviving the emotional and physical loss of a loved one, and how he tries to pick himself up, but often with deleterious effects. I liked all the characters, even the minor ones, but one thing I rant at, is the amount of drama in the book. Towards the end it seemed as if Doug and CO. will even put up a Hindi blockbuster emotional drama movie to shame... (and this fact would be well appreciable by only those who have watched Hindi movies). On the whole, a quick and easy read.. with bits of contemplations and soul searching thrown in. ...more I love, love, loved this book! It\u2019s hard to put the book into a specific genre. On the one hand it\u2019s a romantic-comedy, but with a very bleak beginning. Before Doug\u2019s restorative journey the book deals with his dark depression following the death of his wife, Hailey. It is a sad beginning; but infused with Tropper\u2019s laugh-out-loud humor that takes a speculative look at grief and the funny side of mourning. Doug has to fight-off the advancements of suburban housewives in the wake of Hailey\u2019s death I love, love, loved this book! It\u2019s hard to put the book into a specific genre. On the one hand it\u2019s a romantic-comedy, but with a very bleak beginning. Before Doug\u2019s restorative journey the book deals with his dark depression following the death of his wife, Hailey. It is a sad beginning; but infused with Tropper\u2019s laugh-out-loud humor that takes a speculative look at grief and the funny side of mourning. Doug has to fight-off the advancements of suburban housewives in the wake of Hailey\u2019s death \u2013 women his wife once called friends are dropping by with casseroles and offers of \u2018shoulders\u2019 to cry on. Doug talks about his questionable hygiene in the wake of his mourning and amidst his grieving \u2013 life goes on. His sister\u2019s life is crumbling down around her, and she turns to Doug for help. Doug also has to deal with his stepson\u2019s escalating recklessness after Hailey\u2019s death \u2013 and wonder at his dubious role in Russ\u2019s life since he\u2019s no longer really his step-father, is he? And amidst all this, Doug\u2019s professional life inexplicably takes off. His personal column in the paper starts to reflect the acerbic wit he\u2019s cultivated during his mourning, and \u2018How to talk to a Widower\u2019 turns him into a smash hit. Your heart does break to read about what Doug has lost. Tropper highlights Doug and Hailey\u2019s romance through flashbacks and heart-wrenching narration by Doug about how much he misses the love of his life. But ultimately Doug is a prickly character. Admittedly, we are meeting him when he\u2019s at his worst \u2013 and because of his vulnerable, depressive state he does make some ginormous mistakes that will have you gritting your teeth at his stupidity. But it\u2019s all a part of his healing process. He has to go there to come back, so to speak. Doug\u2019s grief makes him a kind of \u2018anti-hero\u2019 \u2013 through flashbacks about him and Hailey we know that underneath the slovenly, sometimes jerk we first meet is a very affectionate, charming young man. But grief has changed him. The book does have a romance at its centre, as Doug tentatively starts dating Russ\u2019s High School guidance counselor. Their interactions leave you with butterflies in your stomach, and the relationship has a restorative quality for Doug whose real personality starts to resurface as the romance progresses; Sometimes you walk past a pretty girl on the street and there's something beyond beauty in her face, something warm and smart and sensual and inviting, and in the three seconds you have to look at her, you actually fall in love, and in those moments, you can actually know the taste of her kiss, the feel of her skin against yours, the sound of her laugh, how she'll look at you and make you whole. And then she's gone, and in the five seconds afterwards, you mourn her loss with more sadness than you'll ever admit to. Be warned \u2013 you will cry. But you will also laugh, loudly. Tropper walks a fine line between humour and compassion throughout the book as he explores the many facets of Doug\u2019s grief and healing process. You will be frustrated by some of Doug\u2019s actions, but sympathetic to his grief-addled state. This is the second book of Tropper\u2019s that I\u2019ve read. The first was \u2018The Book of Joe\u2019, which I also loved. I intend to read all of his books eventually, because I think he\u2019s fast becoming one of my favourite authors. ...more Among my favorite parts of visiting England is the chance to walk into British bookstores and browse through an entirely NEW range of English-speaking authors. Last time I was in England, I picked up three new books to read during my trip. This one, Jonathan Tropper's \"How to Talk to a Widower\" was my final purchase, selected at Heathrow to keep me company for the flight home. It didn't take me long to discover the irony of my choice -- Tropper's an American author painting a picture of family li Among my favorite parts of visiting England is the chance to walk into British bookstores and browse through an entirely NEW range of English-speaking authors. Last time I was in England, I picked up three new books to read during my trip. This one, Jonathan Tropper's \"How to Talk to a Widower\" was my final purchase, selected at Heathrow to keep me company for the flight home. It didn't take me long to discover the irony of my choice -- Tropper's an American author painting a picture of family life that I sense is uniquely American. So much for reading outside the box. Still, I can't regret the choice, because anything that can make you weave between stifling teary sniffles and shaking with suppressed laughter as you're crammed into the center seat of the center row of a Boeing-757 flying across the Atlantic...well, hey, a little cultural isolationism never hurt anyone. Here's the basics: Doug is, as he puts it, \"young and slim and sad and beautiful.\" His wife, Hailey, was killed in a plane crash a year earlier, leaving him a widower at the wise old age of 28. His stepson, Russ, is still in orbit around Doug and the house, looking for a role model. His baby sister, Debbie, is marrying a guy she met at Hailey's funeral. And his twin sister, Claire, has decided that it's time to get Doug out of his funk. \"Say yes,\" she orders. \"To everything.\" The family reminds me a lot of the family in \"Must Love Dogs\" -- smart, funny, loving, and dysfunctional as hell. But this isn't chick-lit. I'd say Tropper most closely follows in Nick Hornby's (High Fidelity, About a Boy) footsteps, actually. I'm not a fan of a lot of Tropper's other pieces--although after reading this, I went out and read the rest of them. This book, though, is a fast and fun read that I highly recommend to everyone. ...more This is the third Tropper book I've read in just as many weeks. I can't get enough. This book, like the other two I have read (This Is Where I Leave You and The Book of Joe) is swift, wry, funny, and flow with an ease that keeps you just wanting more. Tropper's characters evolve organically--before you know it, you're attached to each of them and standing on the sidelines cheering them on. This particular book was funnier, I thought, than the others I have read. Just when you thought Doug, the m This is the third Tropper book I've read in just as many weeks. I can't get enough. This book, like the other two I have read (This Is Where I Leave You and The Book of Joe) is swift, wry, funny, and flow with an ease that keeps you just wanting more. Tropper's characters evolve organically--before you know it, you're attached to each of them and standing on the sidelines cheering them on. This particular book was funnier, I thought, than the others I have read. Just when you thought Doug, the main character, had gotten it, that his life was finally going to get back on track (or back on track to getting on track), something would happen to turn everything topsy turvy. You'd be halfway through a chapter, promising yourself you'll turn out the lights and go to bed, when all of a sudden you'd get hit with a cliffhanger ending and you'd just have to keep reading. The surprises in this one are less predictable than you'd imagine and are just so unexpected that you can't help but groan an \"OMG,\" all the while laughing and anticipating the resolution--or resulting drama/anxiety/comedy. And now, on to another. ...more This was the first book of Jonathan Tropper's that I have read and I have to say I really love his voice in How To Talk To A Widower. A fan of Nick Hornby's work I was curious to pick up another male authors book that fits the \"women's fiction\" category. The story is about a young widower who has to deal with a step-son and family that is more than a little odd. Jonathan Tropper writes in a such a lively manner and in scenes that were so vivid I could easily see this on the big screen. Doug Parker This was the first book of Jonathan Tropper's that I have read and I have to say I really love his voice in How To Talk To A Widower. A fan of Nick Hornby's work I was curious to pick up another male authors book that fits the \"women's fiction\" category. The story is about a young widower who has to deal with a step-son and family that is more than a little odd. Jonathan Tropper writes in a such a lively manner and in scenes that were so vivid I could easily see this on the big screen. Doug Parker is the widower and also a writer. There are a few pages that are actual pieces that Doug writes for a magazine and after losing his wife Hailey he writes about the loss. The pieces themselves were so good that I wished Jonathan had included a few more pieces. Over a period of time you watch as Doug deals with the loss and a step kid and his family. Its sweet and comical all at the same time. ...more Wow, I like a book about relationships. Not my typical listen but I've enjoyed other Tropper books and I have to say I never thought I'd like this as much as I did. The title of the book put me off for a while and that was a shame. This is my fourth book by the author and all have achieved 4 stars. Funny? Yes, but his writing style is makes it great. How to Talk to a Widower is about a 29 year old guy who loses his slightly older wife in a plane crash. I Love this author!!! I have read 2 books from him. This book and This is where I leave you and both books were fantastic. Jonathan Trooper takes serious subjects and knows how make a great read from it. He is so funny in his writing he makes me laugh out loud. Definitely a 5 star book!!! If I could give this 6 stars I would. Such a great book, such real emotion and I just love his writing. Decent, but kinda samey to Book of Joe. Also the action bit in the last 20 pages felt a bit out of place<---C>Jonathan Tropper</---C>", "Title": "How to Talk to a Widower"},
