{"Comments": "I have no clue wtf I just read... I don't know what is going on....<---F>why the fuck anything is happening</---F>.... Who or what these non human things are.. But I'm just curious enough to move on to book 2 I would have given this 4.5 stars if I had the choice. For this being my first paranormal read (<---B>besides Twilight</---B>), I must say that it kept me very entertained. I love Ruin. I think he is a very interesting character and I cannot wait for the second installment to see his character really shine. The reason for my minus .5 star is because I think Lucian needs to develop Isadore a little more. She was really scatter brained for being a neuroscientist. And to me she's not the strongest female lead t I would have given this 4.5 stars if I had the choice. For this being my first paranormal read (besides Twilight), I must say that it kept me very entertained. I love Ruin. I think he is a very interesting character and I cannot wait for the second installment to see his character really shine. The reason for my minus .5 star is because I think Lucian needs to develop Isadore a little more. She was really scatter brained for being a neuroscientist. And to me she's not the strongest female lead that I would have pictured for that role. So we will see what happens in the next one. Moving on to the sex, cause let's face it...that's one of the reasons why we read it. I love the sexual energy and the build-up between the characters, HOWEVER, Lucian is a BIG freaking TEASE!!!! Gah! I would love nothing more than to find that man and rough him up a little. As a Dom, I can only imagine him saying something like \"Delayed gratification my love. Trust me, it will be worth the wait.\" Yadda yadda yadda is what I say Mr. Bane! Hope the new wife delays your gratification! ...more I won this through a contest on Booklikes. It looked interesting, but I didn't enjoy it all that much. Ruin is the hero. He seems to just come to exist in the swamp one day. He knows things, but not really. It turns out he's a \"carnificem\". A type of angel and it seems like he's reborn periodically, although that is not specifically stated. He's also referred to as \"woe\". He has a bunch of tattoos that are like a \"keyboard\" for navigating to the people he is supposed to judge and execute. Isadora I won this through a contest on Booklikes. It looked interesting, but I didn't enjoy it all that much. Ruin is the hero. He seems to just come to exist in the swamp one day. He knows things, but not really. It turns out he's a \"carnificem\". A type of angel and it seems like he's reborn periodically, although that is not specifically stated. He's also referred to as \"woe\". He has a bunch of tattoos that are like a \"keyboard\" for navigating to the people he is supposed to judge and execute. Isadora is the heroine. Ruin watches her from afar for a couple of days and interrupts as an ex-boyfriend is about to rape her. Ruin feels tied to Isadora for some reason. She is supposed to be super smart and a scientist. She's quite the contradiction. She's attracted to Ruin and gives him several books (encyclopedia,<---M> medical text</---M>, etc) to help educate him. Her scientist background is mentioned many times in this early part of the book. Then, she lets him finger her to orgasm and gets pissed off when he won't fuck her. The next day, when he wants to fuck her, she's suddenly a \"Christian woman\" and won't have sex outside of marriage and without love. This leads to Ruin reading her bible and going to church with her. They begin having debates about religion. It just becomes ridiculous. And it ends in a cliffhanger. Luckily, I'm not interested in continuing. ...more Wasn't sure what to think about you writing something paranormal Lucian ....but I LUV Ruin,and damn Lucian ,you can write some amazingly hot scenes!!! I cannot wait to read more about Ruin and Isadore .\u2764\u2764\u2764 Wasn't sure what to think about you writing something paranormal Lucian ....but I LUV Ruin,and damn Lucian ,you can write some amazingly hot scenes!!! I cannot wait to read more about Ruin and Isadore .\u2764\ufe0f\u2764\ufe0f\u2764\ufe0f ...more Intense, Fascinating, Real, Gripping, Intriguing, Unique & Addicting! A Fantastic Read! I Loved It! WOW!!!! This story starts off and I'm thinking to myself hmmm this chick might just a little nutso, but alas so not true. The depth of her character, along with how selfless she really is had me changing my mind pretty fast . Ruin is a powerful force I definitely would not want to anger, but would take as friend any day of the week. His brutal honesty and inability to lie, i have to say is one of my favorite things about him. The way he reacts and responds to Isadora, Lord I wanted to beat his a WOW!!!! This story starts off and I'm thinking to myself hmmm this chick might just a little nutso, but alas so not true. The depth of her character, along with how selfless she really is had me changing my mind pretty fast . Ruin is a powerful force I definitely would not want to anger, but would take as friend any day of the week. His brutal honesty and inability to lie, i have to say is one of my favorite things about him. The way he reacts and responds to Isadora, Lord I wanted to beat his arse or or give him a big old bear hug depending on where I was at in the story. The description of emotions brought out in him make you feel like your right there with him. This story is beautifully written. The paranormal elements aren't your typical shape shifting animals or vampires which was refreshing, but instead beings that deal with judgment and execution. Where does it all come from who decides your fate after you make the right or wrong choices, and where will you end up. The Good vs. Evil (least that's how I see it at this point), the heat and the ice that fight inside Ruin really captured me and kept me wanting to know exactly which side would win out with each situation. As Ruin begins to understand what it is he really needs, this story actually shows you the growth of his character which is fascinating to watch. Will Isadora be able to help Ruin see what is to really love or will the sins of others tear them apart? Guess I find out more with the next book, highly recommend this all my reader friends. Excited to see what will come next ;0) ...more Paranormal is one of my preferred genres but I have to say that I stopped reading it after a certain series came out because they were all so similar. I was so impressed with the uniqueness of this story and its characters. The beginning was a bit slow to me with the authors introduction of both Ruin and Isadore but I think I hit that problem with every paranormal book I read. It is the newness of the story and trying to put the pieces together that seem to have that effect. Ruin is a very diffe Paranormal is one of my preferred genres but I have to say that I stopped reading it after a certain series came out because they were all so similar. I was so impressed with the uniqueness of this story and its characters. The beginning was a bit slow to me with the authors introduction of both Ruin and Isadore but I think I hit that problem with every paranormal book I read. It is the newness of the story and trying to put the pieces together that seem to have that effect. Ruin is a very different character than what I have read in previous Para books. He is still this hot, brooding alpha male but he lacks social skills which makes for some hilarious scenes, he cannot lie and then there is his abilities. No, I am not going to tell you..I don't do spoilers. Isadore is this cute little swamp chic Scientist who has a fierce attitude but she is so completely selfless and stubborn that she is endearing. This book has a compelling story line that will literally have you trying to finish it in one sitting. It touches on some religious aspects but I think it embraces it from a believer and non-believer point of view and it definitely doesn't shove it down your throat. Which I felt the same about the Paranormal aspect of the book as well. It isn't such a far fetched plot that people who are not fans of the PR genre couldn't also enjoy it. The sexual tension between Ruin and Isadore was off the charts. The other characters in the book were written well for the bayou theme of the book (I literally had flashbacks of Swamp People while reading). Over all I think Mr. Bane aced his first paranormal book, not that I had any doubts that he could. I have read in some of the other reviews that they wanted more of a back story or they really couldn't figure the two out. I spent the whole book trying to solve the mystery that was Ruin and I loved every minute of it. A book that can get me that invested in the characters and the story is a five star in my book. It does have a cliffhanger but don't let the defer you from reading it. Sheesh you impatient people, y'all are just \"spoilt\". LOL Sometimes it is better when you have to wait for it. I know it has me ready for the next book and he writes them quick enough that it doesn't hurt too bad. Ruin: <+++>The Waking</+++> is a must read and it is Relentless Book Chic approved. **Reviewed for Relentless Book Chics Ramblings & Reviews ...more Wow! What can I say about this awesome story!? This is excellent! I have read many paranormal stories, but this one is different in a really great way! Isadore is living in the swamp. Yes the swamp it was her father\u2019s place he left to her. She has a visitor today and it\u2019s her two timing jerk ex-boyfriend whom she wants nothing to do with. He says he is stopping by to apologize but the truth is he isn't there to apologize. He wants her and he wants her now! Isadore wants nothing to do with this \u201c Wow! What can I say about this awesome story!? This is excellent! I have read many paranormal stories, but this one is different in a really great way! Isadore is living in the swamp. Yes the swamp it was her father\u2019s place he left to her. She has a visitor today and it\u2019s her two timing jerk ex-boyfriend whom she wants nothing to do with. He says he is stopping by to apologize but the truth is he isn't there to apologize. He wants her and he wants her now! Isadore wants nothing to do with this \u201ctwo- timing- bast***- dick- for- brains- ass- hat\u201d as she refers to him. Not wanting to leave without taking what he wants and he will take what he wants. That is when Ruin shows up. \u201cLike a freaky apparition, a man out of nowhere stood there, staring at her. At that point, Isadore\u2019s brain was back to malfunctioning, caught up on the deep green eyes. They were so oddly bright in the dark.\u201d \"The man pointed at Jared \u201cYou lied\u201d. Ruin stared at the human named Jared, not understanding why the heat of the sun burned through him alongside the breath of ice, roaring in his ears.\" Ruin I love this character! What exactly is he? Very mysterious. Not a Vampire not a Wolf, mage or any shifter I know of. But he is definitely going to be one of the top paranormal characters (for me anyway). He doesn\u2019t know who or what he is just yet, but you will find out a little bit about him as you read the story. He is learning as he goes. He can feel what she is feeling and they affect him, her fear, her anger, her sexual desires they all have an effect on him. No, you will not learn everything about him just yet which is fine with me because I want to read more about him anyway. There are several characters in this book that I have come to like Mr. Thibodeaux is one of them. The story line flows so well. The next thing I knew I was done this book. Once you start you will not put this down! Great read!! So who is Ruin? What does he want with Isadore? What is going on with her neighbor\u2019s grandson? And who the hell is messing with her traps? Damn neighbors?! Some parts are laugh out loud funny while others make you hold your breath. Then we have some erotic scenes, Mr. Bane does very well with these! And here is no exception, I love that you don\u2019t let them get to far though. (*winks) Perfect! ...more I have previously read only two paranormal books, and I was not thrilled with the genre because I found it hard to relate to characters with unearthly abilities. So why did I choose to read this book? There is one simple answer, <---A>Lucian Bane</---A> wrote it. Although I was not 'on board' initially when Lucian stated he wanted his next series after Dom Wars to contain paranormal elements, I was willing to give this book a chance. I believe that Lucian is a master writer who incorporates sophisticated use I have previously read only two paranormal books, and I was not thrilled with the genre because I found it hard to relate to characters with unearthly abilities. So why did I choose to read this book? There is one simple answer, Lucian Bane wrote it. Although I was not 'on board' initially when Lucian stated he wanted his next series after Dom Wars to contain paranormal elements, I was willing to give this book a chance. I believe that Lucian is a master writer who incorporates sophisticated use of language, a unique story line, well-developed characters and a good dose of campy humor in his books. My expectations for those qualities to be present in a new genre were definitely met in Ruin: <+++>The Waking</+++>! The story opens with a description of Isadore, a self-sufficient, quirky neuroscientist from Boston, who is living in a home that she has inherited in the swamps of Louisiana. It seems to be a good place to hide from a crazy ex. Her life pretty much consists of obsessively mopping her floors with Pine Sol, tending to her crawfish traps, and helping her neighbors. Isadore is lovable from the first paragraph of the story. Events take place that lead Ruin, an unworldly but beautiful specimen of a man, to enter Isadore's life. Although apprehensive, she agrees to help Ruin learn the basics of living in a mortal world, including mastering the language, which proves to be quite hilarious at times! Fire and ice are the key components of their relationship, both literally and figuratively. As Ruin discovers his destiny of being a judge and executor of wicked humans, Isadore finds herself drawn to him and yet she consistently challenges him at every turn, something Ruin finds himself attracted to, but shared sexual desires become complicated by morality. Mr. Bane has drawn me into this story deeply, but has left me with so many unanswered questions. While I was reading, I kept looking at the number of pages left to read, hoping desperately that it would not end before my questions were answered. I was in no way ready for the \"to be continued\" that appeared. I do, however, highly recommend this book to all readers, regardless of whether or not you like paranormal. And, Lucian, please don't make us wait too long for the next part of Ruin and Isadore's story! ...more Well I really didn\u2019t know what to expect going into this, I haven\u2019t read a Lucian Bane book before and to be honest I haven\u2019t read a paranormal book in a while and this reminded me to make sure I get to read them more often. This was such a scenic book, it was so easy to place the swamp, the canoe (I know why the canoe! But it is what it is lo and it\u2019s in my head!) Isadore\u2019s kitchen, literally everything was very visual and really played out in my head. Lucian has a delightful way with words and Well I really didn\u2019t know what to expect going into this, I haven\u2019t read a Lucian Bane book before and to be honest I haven\u2019t read a paranormal book in a while and this reminded me to make sure I get to read them more often. This was such a scenic book, it was so easy to place the swamp, the canoe (I know why the canoe! But it is what it is lo and it\u2019s in my head!) Isadore\u2019s kitchen, literally everything was very visual and really played out in my head. Lucian has a delightful way with words and yeah some might squirm at the use of the word delightful, but I\u2019m struggling for another way to describe his prose. It isn\u2019t wordy, it isn\u2019t flowery, it\u2019s just very lucid to follow whilst it be very descriptive without endless paragraphs of unwanted drivel. I loved his writing style. I have to say I loved Ruin aka JD as he learns the language and then learns it again the Isadore way, \u263a both of their characters talked to me and befriended me and I found this book really hard to put down once I had delved into their world. I also loved Isadore\u2019s quirkiness. I was quite simply surprised to have liked this as much as I did and I thank Lucian profusely for writing a paranormal romance like this one. It\u2019s sexy, it\u2019s engaging and I could almost feel the heat emanate from Ruin as he struggles to deal with Isadore\u2019s emotions, and as he learns what his own body is telling him. I truly loved it and I am so pleased to have signed up for Ruin\u2019s tour. I received a copy of Ruin in return for an honest review; my reviews are my own and are 100% honest. ...more Amazing! After reading and loving Dom Wars by Lucian Bane, I was expecting the same type of book. Not at all! This just shows what an amazing writer her is. This book had everything in it to keep you addicted to it. Hot characters, mystery and hot scenes that leave you wanting more. Isadore moved out to the swamps three years ago after life turned on her. After an unfortunate run in with her ex, a man appears out of nowhere to save her from him. Not just any man either. This amazing bare chested Amazing! After reading and loving Dom Wars by Lucian Bane, I was expecting the same type of book. Not at all! This just shows what an amazing writer her is. This book had everything in it to keep you addicted to it. Hot characters, mystery and hot scenes that leave you wanting more. Isadore moved out to the swamps three years ago after life turned on her. After an unfortunate run in with her ex, a man appears out of nowhere to save her from him. Not just any man either. This amazing bare chested man with tattoos on his chest and a set of the greenest eyes she has ever seen. Only this man isn't what he seems either. His name is Ruin or as she calls him, JD. After helping him become better acquainted with vocabulary, she finds out that he has some secrets to him that can be very deadly. Only she can't stay away, and he can't leave her either. Ruin is some type of angel. An executioner per say. He feels fear and weakness. He also feels the need to punish himself. He wants Isadore. She wants him. But he will only give her the pleasure she seeks and won't seek his in return. Why? That is the question both of them have. After an intense encounter in the bathroom, Ruin's messenger shows up and tells him they have a problem. Ruin insists that Isadore comes and Caliber agrees. So now what!! Now we wait that's what!! Amazing story! Loved all of it. I have yet to not love one of Lucian's works! Can't wait for the next book! ...more This is my 5 star review for Ruin The Waking by Lucian Bane for Eskimo Princess Book Reviews. I have to admit that I am not a big paranormal fan, but I am a BIG fan of romance so I was on the fence about this one going in. I am familiar with Lucian\u2019s other books so I didn\u2019t know what to expect. I can honestly say that I was pleasantly surprised with Ruin and Isadore\u2019s story. Isadore brought forth a sass that was unexpected. She fought so hard to control her emotions when she found herself in a s This is my 5 star review for Ruin The Waking by Lucian Bane for Eskimo Princess Book Reviews. I have to admit that I am not a big paranormal fan, but I am a BIG fan of romance so I was on the fence about this one going in. I am familiar with Lucian\u2019s other books so I didn\u2019t know what to expect. I can honestly say that I was pleasantly surprised with Ruin and Isadore\u2019s story. Isadore brought forth a sass that was unexpected. She fought so hard to control her emotions when she found herself in a situation that she never expected. When she is saved by the mysterious Ruin then he disappears just as fast, will she ever see him again? Will a force so strong knock her off her feet and make her question everything she knows about herself? Ruin, oh my goodness, what can I say about him? Well, he definitely has an honesty that matches no other; he has tattoos that will make you want to examine them with a fine tooth comb, and eyes that you could get lost in. The powers that he held, man, didn\u2019t expect those. Lucian was able to bring humor, sexiness, and an original plot line that was refreshing. I look forward to reading the rest of the series to see where Mr. Bane takes Ruin and Isadore\u2019s story. If you are looking for a paranormal romance then I would definitely recommend Ruin to you! ...more Wow. Firstly let me say that I LOVE paranormal books, they're one of my main niches, and it's not always easy for an author who does so well in a particular genre to switch gears and have it come out so well. I don't write reviews for everything I read, but every so often I read a book and I feel compelled to do so, so here goes: Ruin is a complex character and with a name like that it doesn't seem like anything is going to go right around him and that's somewhat true; he has waring emotions tha Wow. Firstly let me say that I LOVE paranormal books, they're one of my main niches, and it's not always easy for an author who does so well in a particular genre to switch gears and have it come out so well. I don't write reviews for everything I read, but every so often I read a book and I feel compelled to do so, so here goes: Ruin is a complex character and with a name like that it doesn't seem like anything is going to go right around him and that's somewhat true; he has waring emotions that fuel an intense power he neither understands nor enjoys, but we find out what his purpose is with them, and what a heavy ass burden that is. What we want to know is how our girl Isadore plays into all this. This story flows so well, it's an easy transition from scene to scene and you feel what each character is going through whether it be the witty comebacks or the judgement scenes. You're going to sit and start and not be able to put it down and even when it's over you're going to crave more. 5 stars Mr. Bane. Like I said, not every author can change genres and pull it off, but you did it exceptionally well and I look forward to seeing the rest of this series. ...more A must read Wow, those are my first words for this book. I know this is new writing for the author but you wouldn't know that by reading this book. I totally loved this book. Isadore lives out in the swamp by herself and does her best. She does things for others and always fixes what she thinks she can. One night changes everything for her when Ruin appears. Ruin needs help and he doesn't remember anything. He needs someone to help him and he found her. He watched her for two days and then appears A must read Wow, those are my first words for this book. I know this is new writing for the author but you wouldn't know that by reading this book. I totally loved this book. Isadore lives out in the swamp by herself and does her best. She does things for others and always fixes what she thinks she can. One night changes everything for her when Ruin appears. Ruin needs help and he doesn't remember anything. He needs someone to help him and he found her. He watched her for two days and then appears to save her. He needs to understand what he is. I will warn you that you will feel the sparks between Ruin and Isadore. Oh the ending what a way to want more. Great job Lucian Bane on your first paranormal book as it is well worth the read. I look forward to book two. ...more Another awesome book written by Mr. Bane. You have once again drawn me into your wonderful world of writing. I look forward to the next installment of this series. Another book to add to my re-reads done by an awesome author. Ruin and Isadore's story is just beginning. This is a book that is well worth reading and re-reading again. What would you do if you weren't sure of whata your place was in this world or plain of existence? How would you handle not understanding, feeling lost and confused b Another awesome book written by Mr. Bane. You have once again drawn me into your wonderful world of writing. I look forward to the next installment of this series. Another book to add to my re-reads done by an awesome author. Ruin and Isadore's story is just beginning. This is a book that is well worth reading and re-reading again. What would you do if you weren't sure of whata your place was in this world or plain of existence? How would you handle not understanding, feeling lost and confused by the world around you? Being drawn to a specific person that you can NOT leave or be apart from? If you want to try and figure out the answers to these questions with Ruin and Isadore, then you NEED to read this book..... ...more Enjoyed this book as much as I'd hoped I would! Have to admit, Ruin doesn't seem to be what I thought he was, but that's okay! What I'm thinking he is now (because it hasn't been revealed completely yet)is just as cool in its own right! I LOVED how Lucian Bane portrayed him, from his inner thoughts to his slightly-off/not-quite-human mannerisms, to his very real (and intense!) struggle with his human tendencies. So engrossing! And the plot is very unique and intriguing, too! The female lead is s Enjoyed this book as much as I'd hoped I would! Have to admit, Ruin doesn't seem to be what I thought he was, but that's okay! What I'm thinking he is now (because it hasn't been revealed completely yet)is just as cool in its own right! I LOVED how Lucian Bane portrayed him, from his inner thoughts to his slightly-off/not-quite-human mannerisms, to his very real (and intense!) struggle with his human tendencies. So engrossing! And the plot is very unique and intriguing, too! The female lead is strong, which is important to me, and the sexual tension is very, very present. This book clearly ended with much more to learn about Ruin and his plight/mission and I can't wait to discover it all. Great job, Lucian Bane. You've sated my need for a worthy and hot paranormal fix fantastically! ...more Ruin The Waking is Lucian Bane's first paranormal romance and I have to say it's a total winner. A must read. Isadore is a smart and sassy neuroscientist with a gun who returns to the swamps of Louisiana from Boston after inheriting her father's shack on a swamp. When her two-timing ex shows up and tries to attack Isadore, Ruin comes to her rescue. Unable to remember who he is or what he is, he asks for Isadore's help and the mystery of who Ruin is starts to unravel. But for some reason we have Ruin The Waking is Lucian Bane's first paranormal romance and I have to say it's a total winner. A must read. Isadore is a smart and sassy neuroscientist with a gun who returns to the swamps of Louisiana from Boston after inheriting her father's shack on a swamp. When her two-timing ex shows up and tries to attack Isadore, Ruin comes to her rescue. Unable to remember who he is or what he is, he asks for Isadore's help and the mystery of who Ruin is starts to unravel. But for some reason we have yet to find out, Ruin needs Isadore to be with him. I also loved that Ruin is unable to tell a lie, which makes for some pretty laughable moments. It's a gripping story that had me hooked from the beginning. ...more I was wowed from the beginning! Author Lucian Bane had me at the first word and I didn't want to put it down. He draws you in with his writing as if you are right there experiencing the story along with the characters. I love Ruin and Isadore and how they meet. In my eyes he saves her in many ways. If you like a book that you can visualize while you are reading, then this is a book for you. It is not what you would think as the normal paranormal. Get this book today, you won't be disappointed. I was cracking up at Isadore mopping, then freaked out at what was happening then Ruin appeared. *sighs* hot, brooding and too honest for his own good! The underlying implications of who he is, why he is there, and Izzy's connection has drawn me in completely! Did you seriously END it THERE?!! Wow...tease and torture much, Lucian? How long do we have to wait for the next one??? Thinking Caliber needs to be slapped, too! To be very honest I was reluctant to read this book it just seemed so different to the dom wars series but holy cow It blew my reservations out of the water what a fantastically unique book the writing was as usual faultless all I can say I've never been so happy to be proven wrong another hit mr bane :) I don't normally read paranormal romance. It's just not my thing. But this book? It's SO my thing!!! Love Isadore and Ruin, love the sprinkling of Cajun color, the writing style - it's fabulous! I stayed up late reading and got up early to finish - the loss of sleep is SO worth it! Can't wait for the next book!!! Isadore and Ruin meet in an odd way. He is unsure how he became near her other than he woke up in water. Isadore is trying to help Ruin out by learning what he needs to know and what his job is but a craving to have him and not have him is wrecking havoc on both emotionally and physically. Great book. Can't wait for the next one. WOW!!! I don't usually read this genre of book, but after seeing the teasers and reading and loving Dom War series I thought I'd give it ago and I'm so glad I did I was hooked straight away, can't wait for the next book I NEED to know what happens next :-). Lucian you are an amazing author and I can't wait to read more of your work. Thank you xx Lucian has done it again again! This is a wonderful thought provoking read. Heroes come in surprising places and lessons seem to be there in spite of ourselves. I can't wait to see what happens with Ruin and Isadore. That was\u2026 one heck of a mind-warp. I\u2019m still sitting here frustrated that I still don\u2019t understand the \u2018whole\u2019 story here. So, let me give you a quick overview. Ruin is a story of an awakening, the thing is, the awakening only starts to take place and hasn\u2019t fully happened yet. Ruin\u2019s character is well created and developed in his naiveness about the world. He is some sort of guardian or angel from the third heaven and he is judgment. Twisty! Seriously, this story is twisted but not in a bad way That was\u2026 one heck of a mind-warp. I\u2019m still sitting here frustrated that I still don\u2019t understand the \u2018whole\u2019 story here. So, let me give you a quick overview. Ruin is a story of an awakening, the thing is, the awakening only starts to take place and hasn\u2019t fully happened yet. Ruin\u2019s character is well created and developed in his naiveness about the world. He is some sort of guardian or angel from the third heaven and he is judgment. Twisty! Seriously, this story is twisted but not in a bad way. I found myself entertained throughout the story and trying to solve the mystery of Ruin. How did he get there? Is he good or bad? How does this power of his completely work? Etc. The thing is we don\u2019t get to know, yet. If there is one thing Mr. Bane did right by this story, it is the scaffolding and unveiling of events little by little. It\u2019s like the readers find themselves puzzled and intrigued as the story builds and builds but we are teased! Teased, I tell you and on purpose. *gasp* I\u2019m the type of reader who needs full character depth and the \u2018whole\u2019 story. So, I\u2019m giving this story a 3.5 because on one aspect there is so much that happens to leave the reader in a mind warp and sort of confused at times (not knowing Ruin\u2019s backstory or more character depth on him and Isadore was a con for me). On the other hand, the inventiveness of the story, dialogues, and plots flow. As mentioned, I was entertained throughout the story and the sexual tension of the characters was nicely crafted. I do want to read the next story just to find out what the heck is really going on. While I personally am not a \u2018huge\u2019 paranormal reader, I will say that if you like mind-twisting stories with some erotic elements thrown in, you probably will find this much more enjoyable than I did. I recommend this read for those who are okay with only parts of the story being fulfilled and cliffhangers. *Arc copy provided for an honest review. **If I were only giving this a review based on the hotness level that would have been a straight 5. ...more Isadore just wants to live a simple peaceful life out in the swamp, but when her discusting ex comes a calling things don't look good for her, until HE comes in and saves her. Ruin doesn't know who or what he is, he doesn't remember his life or words and their meanings. But some part of him realizes SHE can help him. The mans not stupid, just ignorant of life and what is and isn't appropriate and Isadore can only do so much to help him understand. She wants something he doesn't know how to give. H Isadore just wants to live a simple peaceful life out in the swamp, but when her discusting ex comes a calling things don't look good for her, until HE comes in and saves her. Ruin doesn't know who or what he is, he doesn't remember his life or words and their meanings. But some part of him realizes SHE can help him. The mans not stupid, just ignorant of life and what is and isn't appropriate and Isadore can only do so much to help him understand. She wants something he doesn't know how to give. He wants to give something he doesn't understand. Ruin's problems might be obvious, but Isadore has her share of issues too. The two are trying to figure not only themselves out but also Ruin's past and what exactally he is. Ok so the story was a bit confusing, but that's just because the characters are confused. I enjoyed seeing Isadore curious about the strange man who doesn't know much of anything and go between doing her christian duty to help him, help him because of her scientific curiousity, and deal with the lust she has for him while knowing she wants something more from a relationship. Poor Ruin doesn't understand why his blunt honesty causes so many problems. He just wants to understand the world around him and has only his thoughts and instincts guiding him. He feels there's something special about Isadore, but doesn't know what it is and it causes allot of problems between the two of them. The story itself is interesting and I'll definitely be waiting to see more to this series so I can unravil the mystery that is Ruin. ...more OMG! I feel as if I've been swampatized by a perfectly phenomenal fallen angel in camp never-never land. Can someone please tell me where to find my own tattoo xylophone?? I can feel Ruin's unease very keenly as he struggles with the most basic of words and their definitions. This author has a way of making you feel every pain and joy that conflicts this powerful alpha male carnificem and afflicts his dark psyche. I connected to Isadore immediately and can relate to the past that seems to bind he OMG! I feel as if I've been swampatized by a perfectly phenomenal fallen angel in camp never-never land. Can someone please tell me where to find my own tattoo xylophone?? I can feel Ruin's unease very keenly as he struggles with the most basic of words and their definitions. This author has a way of making you feel every pain and joy that conflicts this powerful alpha male carnificem and afflicts his dark psyche. I connected to Isadore immediately and can relate to the past that seems to bind her to fear and uncertainty. She struggles as she tries to control her desires for Ruin as her religious moral code seeps into her mind. There are many secrets and mysteries that need to be told in this unique paranormal story, I can't wait to find them all as it unfolds. There is a hidden message in this series as well and I hope we all can see what this Author is trying to tell us as these two broken souls fight the nature of dark human psyche and strive to love and be loved with the good love. I heart your Superf*cknfabulicious writing ninja skills Lucian Bane but please stop with the dam \"TO BE CONTINUED\". ...more This book was introduced to me by Paranormal Book Club on Facebook. The bookcover was intriguing and the synopsis on Goodreads was enticing. The story started good. As my reading progressed, confusion gnawed on me. I felt like I missed reading several chapters. The book didn't mention what kind of scientist Isadore was but the synopsis did. The author didn't elaborate why she abandoned her profession as scientist. She kind of annoyed me with her sanctimonious babbling about fornication. Also, sh This book was introduced to me by Paranormal Book Club on Facebook. The bookcover was intriguing and the synopsis on Goodreads was enticing. The story started good. As my reading progressed, confusion gnawed on me. I felt like I missed reading several chapters. The book didn't mention what kind of scientist Isadore was but the synopsis did. The author didn't elaborate why she abandoned her profession as scientist. She kind of annoyed me with her sanctimonious babbling about fornication. Also, she acted more bipolar to me than a scientist. As far as I know, scientists were all about theories and logics. The heroine of this book lacked of those qualities. I was confused about Ruin as well. I was not sure if he was from a Greek Pantheon or heaven. When his nature was about to be explained, the book ended. I felt like this book was just a teaser to a major series. Bottom line, the story has a potential to make a full blown great series, because the author's idea is great...it just needs to be executed well. ...more *I received a complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review. OMGee!!! What a fantastic book!!! We start off meeting Isadore in her home and she gets a nasty visitor which Ruin saves her from. She doesn't know what to think of him, and he seems to not be able to communicate with her. Isadore shows Ruin what it is to love, and he shows her... well the best time ever! They are so funny together! This book has everything you need, a hot story, steamy scenes, laughter, witty banter, intrigue... *I received a complimentary copy in exchange for an honest review. OMGee!!! What a fantastic book!!! We start off meeting Isadore in her home and she gets a nasty visitor which Ruin saves her from. She doesn't know what to think of him, and he seems to not be able to communicate with her. Isadore shows Ruin what it is to love, and he shows her... well the best time ever! They are so funny together! This book has everything you need, a hot story, steamy scenes, laughter, witty banter, intrigue... you have to read it! The best part for me, was that Ruin can't lie, and Isadore really gets perturbed at him a few times and it's so entertaining. I read this in one setting and I cant wait to read the next!!! Fantastic job Lucian Bane!!! ~Dowie ...more About halfway through page #1, I decided I liked Isadore. Singing and cleaning is something I do, so I instantly identified with her. A deep story, it quickly pulls you in and you can't escape. I couldn't put the book down until I had read every word. Isadore was once in an abusive relationship, and it still haunts her. There are many layers to her character and I enjoyed getting to know each one. Ruin is impressive. Sexy and dangerous, but at the same time vulnerable. I loved the banter between About halfway through page #1, I decided I liked Isadore. Singing and cleaning is something I do, so I instantly identified with her. A deep story, it quickly pulls you in and you can't escape. I couldn't put the book down until I had read every word. Isadore was once in an abusive relationship, and it still haunts her. There are many layers to her character and I enjoyed getting to know each one. Ruin is impressive. Sexy and dangerous, but at the same time vulnerable. I loved the banter between them, their connection is amazing. Bane ends with an amazing cliff hanger, I'll be keeping an eye out for the next in the series. ~Jai ...more<---C>Lucian Bane</---C>", "Title": "The Waking"},
