{"Comments": "Let's face it, the werewolf stories are the best books in <---A>Kelley Armstrong</---A> 's Women of the Otherworld series. Yes,<---M> I enjoyed the rest of the installments</---M>, but there is something extremely appealing about the physical world of weres. It's just so much more fun to read about hand-to-hand fights, cracked bones, and torn-out throats. How can spell-casting, raising the dead, and (<---B>give me a break!</---B>) sensing chaos possibly compete with that? In this novel Elena and Clay travel to Alaska to have a talk wi Let's face it, the werewolf stories are the best books in Kelley Armstrong 's Women of the Otherworld series. Yes, I enjoyed the rest of the installments, but there is something extremely appealing about the physical world of weres. It's just so much more fun to read about hand-to-hand fights, cracked bones, and torn-out throats. How can spell-casting, raising the dead, and (give me a break!) sensing chaos possibly compete with that? In this novel Elena and Clay travel to Alaska to have a talk with a young stray werewolf from Australia and visit a couple of ex-Pack members. In the process they stumble across a gang of mischievous mutts and some weird creature in the wilderness... <+++>Frostbitten</+++> is the best book in the series since Stolen and a great werewolf comeback after the cheesefest Broken was. This novel is almost a perfect mix of action, mystery, and smutty goodness. Armstrong manages to avoid many of the mistakes of her previous novels: the book is not a nauseating reunion of all her series characters, it's not overly sweet and indulgent, like Broken was, the kids' cuteness is featured just in the right amount. The plot is engaging and well-paced, new characters are a lot of fun (I would love to get to know about the Russian Pack and Elena's possible werewolf heritage). And mainly, Elena and Clay are at their best. They still care for each, but their relationship is not stale (like it was in Broken ), there are some issues they have to work through and they provide just enough entertainment and drama to make the couple's interactions fun, touching, and smoldering. Overall, <+++>Frostbitten</+++> is a great entertainment, even though some scaling back of assaults on Elena would have been nice. ...more \u201cI've spent the last decade learning to stand firm and face my problems\u2026 or at least batter them until they're unrecognizable.\u201d Frostbitten is the last full-length book in the Women of the Otherworld series that is told through Elena's point of view. Throughout the series our main character has grown into her skin, settled in with her mate, advanced higher in the pack, and adapted to motherhood. In a way I'm bummed the final Elena book, like the second to last, takes a breather from Stonehaven. \u201cI've spent the last decade learning to stand firm and face my problems\u2026 or at least batter them until they're unrecognizable.\u201d Frostbitten is the last full-length book in the Women of the Otherworld series that is told through Elena's point of view. Throughout the series our main character has grown into her skin, settled in with her mate, advanced higher in the pack, and adapted to motherhood. In a way I'm bummed the final Elena book, like the second to last, takes a breather from Stonehaven. There's something charming about their property and the bonding that goes on there. Whatever the reason, the author took us out to the Alaskan wilderness, which actually had a cool small town setting. The snow and winter storms added to the creepy feel around an isolated cabin with death inside, wolves and werewolves outside. Armstrong introduces a new form of shifter, but throws in a mystery with it so I can't reveal much other than to say there's a few surprises and nice twists. The twins are adorable but Skyping with them was enough. Taking Elena and Clay away from Stonehaven gives them alone time to solve the crimes and ride the highs of mystery while giving the readers a break from parenting overload. Jeremy is hardly around until the very end (bummer), but he and Jaime are spoken of briefly. This is an unusual story in that there aren't many regular gracing the pages other than through phone calls and memories. Nick makes a stand at least once, however, and we get two new important werewolves that may shape the future stories that will remain untold since the series is ending. Cleverly twisted, Elena runs into some sick individuals who hold little remorse for man or shapeshifter. She has to confront her last biggest fear before she steps onto the higher step of alphahood. It was interesting on a psychological level, but I have to wonder if it was completely needed. She didn't grow beyond the fear (who would?) but instead learned to accept it and ignore it for the bigger picture. It was never a phobia or necessarily holding her back, so I'm not sure if the author had that particular scenario in this book for a bigger meaning that I didn't fully grasp. Clay is awesome, he'll always be awesome, and we get a good dose of him here. Romance, steam, fight, vulnerable moments, the whole package in one. Frostbitten is a dark book that finishes with a hopeful feeling. The pace is calmer than a few others in the series, but this only heightens the sense of isolation that complements the winter setting. ...more Frostbitten is a nice addition to the Women of the Otherworld series after two not so great books. In it Elena cements her feelings for Clay by admitting that she missed him whilst he was away, she confronts her past fears head on, and learns that she is strong enough if not quite ready to become Alpha. Clay is as wonderful as ever both protecting Elena and giving her the freedom of her independence. The rest of the pack also make an appearance if only towards the end. We meet two former pack me Frostbitten is a nice addition to the Women of the Otherworld series after two not so great books. In it Elena cements her feelings for Clay by admitting that she missed him whilst he was away, she confronts her past fears head on, and learns that she is strong enough if not quite ready to become Alpha. Clay is as wonderful as ever both protecting Elena and giving her the freedom of her independence. The rest of the pack also make an appearance if only towards the end. We meet two former pack members who fled the pack when Malcolm and Jeremy were fighting to become Alpha as well as the Alpha of the Russian werewolf pack who I hope we see more of in future - I'm curious to see if a proper relationship can be established between the two packs. As for the story, a group of mutts consisting of Eastern European and American members have decided to settle in Alaska and have been killing off all werewolves on site before they move their very illegal gun-running business over. However the supposed Alpha has a penchant for raping and murdering and can't stop himself from preying on the local girls. As soon as he gets a whiff of Elena he wants her, badly. The rest revolves around rescuing a teenage werewolf called Noah, trying to stay out of the clutches of the rapist and trying to bring down the mutt-pack. I instantly took a liking to Noah, despite his age and criminal record he was very brave and honorable when he tried to protect Elena from being raped and killed at great risk to himself. Finally without giving too much away we get a much needed new pack member, an almost pack member and a possible future pack member. Thank goodness for the new young blood! I really didn't want the pack to die out. Frostbitten was a good read, Elena and Clay are my favourite characters with their children not far behind (I love little Logan!) and I hope to see more of them and the growing pack in future books. ...more Clayton and Elena, how do I love thee? Let me count the ways: 1.<---F> You are ridiculously fun</---F>. Whether you're tossing each other around in the snow while in wolf form, or contemplating how difficult it would be to maneuver in the back of your SUV, you fill me with D-E-L-I-G-H-T. 2. You are the perfect example of partnership. I know you got off to a bit of a rough start (with the biting and the changing ), but you weathered that storm spectacularly (even if it did take 10(ish) years to do it), and you a Clayton and Elena, how do I love thee? Let me count the ways: 1. You are ridiculously fun. Whether you're tossing each other around in the snow while in wolf form, or contemplating how difficult it would be to maneuver in the back of your SUV, you fill me with D-E-L-I-G-H-T. 2. You are the perfect example of partnership. I know you got off to a bit of a rough start (with the biting and the changing ), but you weathered that storm spectacularly (even if it did take 10(ish) years to do it), and you are a shining example to the rest of us mere mortals. Neither of you can refrain from confiding in each other when you are troubled, and you know and understand each other so well, that you always say exactly the right thing. 3. You are also everything (IM humble O) that werewolves should be. You are stronger, faster, and more fierce than humans, and you are fiercely loyal to your pack. You are canny, especially you, Elena, who has absolutely no problem using mutts assumptions about a female's place in the pack against them to get the upper hand. And there's none of that leaping through the air as a human, and landing as a wolf nonsense, nor are you 3x the equivalent of your human size. And that'll do for now. Frostbitten is the tenth book in the Women of the Otherworld series, and it begins with Elena trying to chase down a young mutt who she fears is about to be murdered as a scapegoat for other mutts' crimes. She and Clay round him up in Alaska and send him to the pack, but they stay to investigate a few alleged wolf-killings. The plot is gritty and gruesome as these books often are, but at least this time no small children are threatened and/or killed. Small mercy that b/c what does happen forces Elena to face down some of her darkest demons. Unlike a lot of the Women of the Otherworld books (that include a wide variety of characters), Frostbitten is almost solely focused on Clay and Elena. Jeremy checks in a few times when they call to talk to Kate and Logan (who are adorable), and the rest of the pack shows up for the very end, but other than that, it's just the two of them facing down various enemies. But as their POV is my favorite of this series, that did not bother me in the slightest. It also allowed for further insight into the new-and-improved Clay and Elena (in which Elena is no longer trying to hold Clay at arms-length). Overall, this is one of my favorite installments, and even though I already used this gif in a status update, I'm using it here too, b/c Clay and Elena make me feel all warm and fuzzy (and so does this gif). ...more May contain spoilers Book Blurb \u201cThe Alaskan wilderness is a harsh landscape in the best of conditions, but with a pack of rogue werewolves on the loose, it\u2019s downright deadly. <---C>Elena Michaels</---C>, the Pack\u2019s chief enforcer, knows all too well the havoc \u201cmutts\u201d can wreak. When word comes of a series of humans apparently killed by wolves near Anchorage, Elena and Clay are sent to check things out. But they find more than they bargained for among the snow and trees of the savage Alaskan wilderness. Fros May contain spoilers Book Blurb \u201cThe Alaskan wilderness is a harsh landscape in the best of conditions, but with a pack of rogue werewolves on the loose, it\u2019s downright deadly. Elena Michaels, the Pack\u2019s chief enforcer, knows all too well the havoc \u201cmutts\u201d can wreak. When word comes of a series of humans apparently killed by wolves near Anchorage, Elena and Clay are sent to check things out. But they find more than they bargained for among the snow and trees of the savage Alaskan wilderness. Frostbitten focus on Elena Michaels, the world\u2019s only female werewolf and how she reconciles accepting herself being part of the wolf pack and learning that she has been chosen to be the future alpha of the pack. We also see her struggling to forgive Clay for turning her into a werewolf and dealing with her life with him and their children. This is the 10th book in the Women of the Otherworld Series and the fourth that features Elena, who has come a long way from the 1st book, Bitten, and Clay. Whilst I understood her feelings towards Clay, regarding her turning, I always rooted for them as a couple. Yes, Clay was a bit of a overbearing, cold and cynical guy but there was something about him that I engaged with\u2026.so I was so happy to see them finally together, married and with the most adorable twins\u2026.. I loved seeing their relationship develop into something deep and lasting\u2026\u2026and wow\u2026.their scenes together\u2026.in bed\u2026.hot and sexy\u2026. The plot is fast paced, filled twists and turns, surprises, new and mysterious characters, amazing setting\u2026.just couldn\u2019t stop turning the pages. The author has built a very interesting and compelling world and though I am sad that this is the last book of Elena\u2019s POV, I am eagerly waiting to read more about the characters that I have become familiar with. ...more Okay, okay, I was going to write a nice balanced review and all that, but let me start with my complaint. What is it with bloody scent? I get that Elena being the only female werewolf means that all the other male werewolves are gunning for her, either because of her or to get to Clay. If her smell, however, is an equalivent of an in heat signal that opens a host of questions. If Elena is \"in heat\" in wolf form than wouldn't that turn on Clay? Wouldn't it make it difficult for Elena to exist any w Okay, okay, I was going to write a nice balanced review and all that, but let me start with my complaint. What is it with bloody scent? I get that Elena being the only female werewolf means that all the other male werewolves are gunning for her, either because of her or to get to Clay. If her smell, however, is an equalivent of an in heat signal that opens a host of questions. If Elena is \"in heat\" in wolf form than wouldn't that turn on Clay? Wouldn't it make it difficult for Elena to exist any where there was four legged pooches? Wouldn't it be, well, really messy? If it is \"in heat\" like in Benighted , please Mrs/Ms Armstrong make it bloody clear! Okay, the scent idea's is good but not well thought out and it really annoyed me because I was wondering about it for most of the book. This is a good addition to the series, much better than Personal Demon (I haven't read Living with the Dead yet because I really don't like Hope). I have to give Armstrong a huge amount of points for the following: 1. Aging her characters. It isn't little bitty aging. It's been ten years since Elena's first appearance. She is ten years older. That's cool. 2. It is nice seeing a married couple with children. Armstrong has several couples in varying degrees of commitent in her series. I enjoy this. 3. Elena as alpha, very cool. 4. Even cooler, Clay acts in character in regards to the news. 5. Elena relying more on herself than Clay. 6. Clay letting Elena take care of herself. 7. Describing fight scenes and sex scenes with the same detail. 8. Elena and Clay operating independently from each other. Armstrong also opens up her world a bit. She even gives a plausible reason for Elena's being able to surive the bite (and opens the door for other possibilites). I'm not sure if I think the addition of shifters is totally well thought out, but I like the link to Bigfoot. A word of warning, this book does deal, very heavily, with the issue of rape and abuse. There is attempted rape, and a frank discussion of Elena's past. If that is something you want to avoid, you are warned. Elena has grown greatly over the course of the series becoming far more than the quasi Mary Sue she seemed to be in the first novel. (She wasn't a full out Mary Sue, but she had some of the character points of one). It's good to see that. Women of the Otherworld might be an Urban Fantasy series that has a strong dose of the romance novel in the books; however, it is a series that shows women being strong, relient, and independent. ...more Great introduction to urban fantasy This is the first of Kelley Armstrong's books that I have read. Obviously, that means that it is my first from the Otherworld series too. Frostbitten was recommended to me by friends, despite being in a different genre to anything that I have read in my past. I really didn't think that I would enjoy it too much, but I was more than pleasantly surprised. I would therefore thoroughly recommend it to anyone who has not tried this genre before. There is a strong plo Great introduction to urban fantasy This is the first of Kelley Armstrong's books that I have read. Obviously, that means that it is my first from the Otherworld series too. Frostbitten was recommended to me by friends, despite being in a different genre to anything that I have read in my past. I really didn't think that I would enjoy it too much, but I was more than pleasantly surprised. I would therefore thoroughly recommend it to anyone who has not tried this genre before. There is a strong plot, and there are masses of strong characters who interact amaxzingly well. There are goodies and baddies, adn there are those who fall in between the two. Elena is the pack leader (alpha) elect, and she has a relatively normal relationship with her beta male husband, and they have childre n who spend their time wondering where Mum and Dad are. In this book, they have pursued a mutt, who doesn't realise that their intentions are all positively weighted in his direction, to Alaska. However, when they arrive in the frozen north, they are confronted by much bigger problems than they expected. There is absolutely no choice for them other than to clear up the mess, and they put themselves in terrible danger in doing so. I love the desciptions of the fighting and of the sex scenes. Both have just the right level of detail. Even better, for me, are the graphic descriptions of how it feels to change from human into wolf and back again. The pros and cons of being in each form are brought out very well too. This book is a great introduction to the genre, and I shall definitely be picking up others, especially from this author. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Elena Michaels is my favourite Women of the Otherworld narrator and listening to her poignant point of view via audio this second time around made me love Frostbitten even more. Jen Taylor had me hanging on her every word because she reads this story as though it were her own. I only have one complaint with this novel and it\u2019s that it was over far too soon. Reading this book a second time was bitter sweet for me because on the one hand, I love Kelley Armstrong\u2019s wolves an Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Elena Michaels is my favourite Women of the Otherworld narrator and listening to her poignant point of view via audio this second time around made me love Frostbitten even more. Jen Taylor had me hanging on her every word because she reads this story as though it were her own. I only have one complaint with this novel and it\u2019s that it was over far too soon. Reading this book a second time was bitter sweet for me because on the one hand, I love Kelley Armstrong\u2019s wolves and am ecstatic to be revisiting them but on the other, I know that this is the last installment in this series that features Elena as the narrator and it wasn\u2019t nearly long enough for my liking. Compared to her other novels, this one felt more like a novella than a full length book; the plot is rather basic and the tone is much lighter than its predecessors. I did enjoy the descriptiveness of Armstrong\u2019s writing in this installment as well as the playfulness that Alaska brought out in Clay and Elena but I couldn\u2019t help but feel cheated. I wanted more. Elena has come full circle as a character and Frostbitten really brings that to the forefront by sharing bits of her past, present and future. This installment was kind of a mini-recap of Michael\u2019s life as a werewolf because it showcases aspects of her relationship with Clay, experiences as a mother and future role as alpha. It also revisits her life as a foster child by dredging up painful memories and putting her in situations that force her to confront her traumatic upbringing. These are the parts where Jen Taylor\u2019s narration really shined; I could hear Elena\u2019s distress in her voice, the pregnant pauses and contemplative quietness mirrored Armstrong\u2019s writing beautifully. Clay and Elena\u2019s relationship is another element that has come a long way since Bitten and I enjoyed seeing them finally getting to experience their HEA. There\u2019s an open line of communication between them which is something that they\u2019ve struggled with in the past. Their dialogues about Michael\u2019s struggles with alphahood and Clay\u2019s inability to be the pack enforcer he once was were some of my favourite parts. It has been a long upward battle but I think that they\u2019ve finally found their \u201chappy place\u201d and that\u2019s more important to me than the overall ending of the Women of the Otherworld series. I probably won\u2019t be re-reading this series a third time because Armstrong\u2019s other characters didn\u2019t succeed in capturing me quite like her werewolves have. The only books that I\u2019ll never grow tired of are the ones that feature Clay and Elena, and Frostbitten is one of them. ...more You CAN go home again! While Kelley Armstrong has never traveled too far afield from the werewolf clan that started the Women of the Otherworld series in Bitten there have been many characters and storylines added since then. But, coming back to Elena and Clay was like a GOOD trip back to the place you called home. You can see how they've grown and changed over the years, but some part of them is still the same couple that I remember. And, even beyond the relationship aspect of the book, the plot You CAN go home again! While Kelley Armstrong has never traveled too far afield from the werewolf clan that started the Women of the Otherworld series in Bitten there have been many characters and storylines added since then. But, coming back to Elena and Clay was like a GOOD trip back to the place you called home. You can see how they've grown and changed over the years, but some part of them is still the same couple that I remember. And, even beyond the relationship aspect of the book, the plot and the mystery and the action was as good as it has ever been. If you're looking for a straight romance book, this will disappoint you. The \"couple\" after all, is married with children already. This isn't a boy meets girl kind of book, although some of her books are heavy on that element. This is a boy and girl battle snow, beasties, bad guys, kick ass, have sex, save the day kind of book. But, if you're an Armstrong fan, you already knew that, right? While there are some mentions of other characters, this is a Clay and Elena book. No Paige, No Lucas, No Savannah, etc. You get the picture. So, if those are your favorites, just know you won't find them here. A couple of new, potentially future main characters were introduced and I found myself loving them both. I was recently in Anchorage (2007) and could practically feel the place through Armstrong's scenery descriptions. I felt like I was back there. They felt like visitors, having the same experiences (for the most part) that I had when I was there. Even Reindeer sausage was mentioned (although I didn't try it like Clay and Elena did.) Overall, reading this book made me happy. I enjoyed every part of it, was up late three nights in a row reading, and am already anxiously awaiting the next book in the series. All of these are good signs that whatever it is Armstrong is using to power this series, it is still going strong. ...more Wow! Frostbitten, the 10th novel in the Women of the Otherworld series gets my vote for best novel of the series so far! Frostbitten is told from Elena\u2019s point of view, taking us back to our original (and my personal favourite) narrator. The story is set predominantly in Alaska, and features Elena and Clay almost exclusively. We do get to touch base with some of our other much-loved Werewolves, and we also get to meet some fantastic new characters that I hope we\u2019ll be seeing more of in future st Wow! Frostbitten, the 10th novel in the Women of the Otherworld series gets my vote for best novel of the series so far! Frostbitten is told from Elena\u2019s point of view, taking us back to our original (and my personal favourite) narrator. The story is set predominantly in Alaska, and features Elena and Clay almost exclusively. We do get to touch base with some of our other much-loved Werewolves, and we also get to meet some fantastic new characters that I hope we\u2019ll be seeing more of in future stories. Right from the first page, Frostbitten is filled with action, intrigue and excitement, and of course\u2026 a little bit of romance. (What else would you expect from a book featuring Elena and Clay??) I don\u2019t want to give any of the juicy plot away so I\u2019ll stop there, but I\u2019m quite sure that fans of the Women of the Otherworld series will love Frostbitten, while fans of supernatural fiction in general, could enjoy it as a great standalone novel as well. Don\u2019t miss Frostbitten! ...more I have to say that I seriously enjoyed this one. It was great to see that the Pack may be evolving. Jeremy has officially asked Elena to become Alpha when he steps down. The way Elena and Clay discuss this and decide how to handle this while being mates was-for those two-surprisingly civil and mature. Their relationship really has come a long way. I love seeing them be open with each other. While they held back at some points, they always eventually discussed what was bothering them. I couldn't s I have to say that I seriously enjoyed this one. It was great to see that the Pack may be evolving. Jeremy has officially asked Elena to become Alpha when he steps down. The way Elena and Clay discuss this and decide how to handle this while being mates was-for those two-surprisingly civil and mature. Their relationship really has come a long way. I love seeing them be open with each other. While they held back at some points, they always eventually discussed what was bothering them. I couldn't stand them as a couple in book 1, now, I really like them together. The book starts off with Elena chasing down a young mutt trying to warn him that some other mutts are out to kill him. The chase takes her to Alaska where she and Clay find more mutts and humans supposedly killed by wolves. That's not all the find there. Things get really weird while up in Alaska. They find some kind of wolf beasts and a werewolf running with an actual pack of wolves. To add to that, they find the Stillwaters, only they find Dennis murdered and Joey extremely uncooperative. They soon find out the reason for this and things get even more complicated. To top that all off, Elena had received an unexpected letter while Clay was in Atlanta and it stirs up old fears from her childhood. To make that even worse, one of the mutts they find in Alaska is damned determine to rape her which makes her feel even worse. I had not expected for things to play out the way they did, except for the dead mutts. The Pack couldn't let those fools live and I was cheering for Elena when she got rid of those dickheads. They got what they deserved. What I hadn't expected was the whole Pack to show up (along with their potential new member) and have them help out. I was glad of it, though. I really like Reese and I missed Antonio and Nick. And then there was the surprise from Joey (that guy was a huge disappointment), but Noah made up for that. I'm glad the Pack will be taking him in. And maybe down the line, the werewolf they found running with that wolf pack may even join them some day. The highlights of the book for me, though were any scenes with Kate and Logan. The twins are so adorable. ...more My beloved Clay and Elena are back and they're doing what they do best... tracking mutts. The story begins with Elena trying to catch up with a young Aussie wolf named Reese, who is being set up to take the fall for some man-eaters. (Armstrong set up a backstory for Reese in the short story \"Chivalrous,\" but you don't have to read it to know what's going on.) She follows him to Alaska, where he is promptly attacked by mutts living there. Elena patches him up and faces the task of finding the mut My beloved Clay and Elena are back and they're doing what they do best... tracking mutts. The story begins with Elena trying to catch up with a young Aussie wolf named Reese, who is being set up to take the fall for some man-eaters. (Armstrong set up a backstory for Reese in the short story \"Chivalrous,\" but you don't have to read it to know what's going on.) She follows him to Alaska, where he is promptly attacked by mutts living there. Elena patches him up and faces the task of finding the mutts to deal with them. She and Clay also have a side-mission while they're there. Two former Pack members (Dennis and Joey, who we met in the short story \"Ascension\") are living in Alaska, but Jeremy is worried about them because they have fallen out of touch. We discover quickly that Dennis is dead... killed by the mutts... giving Clay and Elena more incentive to track them down. Adding to the trouble: some missing girls and some unexplained wolf-kills. How much are the mutts responsible for? And what is the strange shifter that Dennis was researching before he died? This book was fantastic. There was a lot of action, but there was plenty of introspection for Elena as well. She's finally aware of Jeremy's plan to make her Alpha. Is that really what she wants? And what will that mean for her and Clay? Beyond that, she is finally facing some of the demons from her childhood... at first in an intangible way, but later, in ways that are all too real. It was all very satisfying.... kind of like coming home after the departure of Living With the Dead . I love that Elena is finally embracing her feelings for Clay and accepting who she is. I really enjoy watching them as a couple... their fire, their commitment... just everything. It was also great fun to meet new werewolves who could expand the Pack. 5 stars. ...more Yes!!!!! After a few duds, Armstrong has once again hit one out of the park by returning to her roots, characters Elena Michaels and Clayton Danvers. Thank vati! While Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series was not my first introduction to her writing, books 1 Bitten and 2 Stolen were certainly my favorite books written by her, I think, maybe, I don\u2019t know. Anyway, my love was no doubt due to the fabby and oh so enticing couple of Elena and Clayton. I had originally thought that anything writ Yes!!!!! After a few duds, Armstrong has once again hit one out of the park by returning to her roots, characters Elena Michaels and Clayton Danvers. Thank vati! While Armstrong\u2019s Women of the Otherworld series was not my first introduction to her writing, books 1 Bitten and 2 Stolen were certainly my favorite books written by her, I think, maybe, I don\u2019t know. Anyway, my love was no doubt due to the fabby and oh so enticing couple of Elena and Clayton. I had originally thought that anything written about these two was golden, but after reading Broken , I was no longer so sure. After reading another Armstrong letdown, I really became reluctant to read Frostbitten , terrified that my admiration for Elena, and my lust worthy hunk Clayton would be further tainted by stupid plot points, Mary Sue-ish like happy endings, etc. But alas, the moment my eyes set their sights on the Mass Market version of this treat of a book, I couldn\u2019t pass up the opportunity to indulge. It was worth every cent of the $7.99 purchase price. It would have been worth the original $26.00 truth being told. I\u2019m not going to summarize the story, mainly because I\u2019m lazy, and a good summary requires effort. Besides, I\u2019m pretty certain about 30 other reviewers have done so already. I\u2019m guessing you get the nub and gist of what goes down. What I want to make certain you know is that this book is everything we have come to expect from Armstrong. Frostbitten contains a compelling plot that will have you hastily turning the pages, refusing to go to bed until you\u2019ve found a suitable stopping point. Shrouded in mystery, suspense, romance, a bit of violence and all that other fun stuff, Frostbitten would have been a great book in its own right even if it didn\u2019t contain one of urban fantasies hottest couples. Luckily for us readers, it does. Elena and Clay still have that witty banter we devoured in Bitten but it is now knowingly delivered in love and jest. Sounds sappy I know, but it goes down easy I swear. I don\u2019t do sappy. Well, not with these two. Also, the twins have conveniently been left at home, so for the most part, I can forget that our steamy duo are parents. This helps me with the ick factor as I do not like to think of parents doing it. Immature I know, but I don\u2019t like reality mixed with my smut, it\u2019s a major killjoy. And let me tell you, there is some pretty good smut going on. It doesn\u2019t last long, I suspect that Clayton is a quick-shot, which under normal circumstances would take him out of the hunk category, but somehow it works which is a testament to his skills, imo. Where was I, oh yes the smut, so like I was saying, Armstrong delivers on the love and lust front. Really, what more do you need from a guilty pleasure? In a nutshell, if you loved Bitten and Stolen and are jonesing for a Elena/Clayton fix, Frostbitten will more than satisfy your craving. Enjoy! ...more Elena has been tracking a young mutt in need of pack protection but he does not want to be found. When he turns up in Alaska it gives the Pack the ideal chance to nose into possible werewolf kills and get in touch with former pack members who chose to go rogue when Jeremy took control. Elena and Clay realise that the three objectives might well be linked. So they have to find Reece and protect him, track the wolf kills and find Clay's friends, while watching out for something much more dangerous Elena has been tracking a young mutt in need of pack protection but he does not want to be found. When he turns up in Alaska it gives the Pack the ideal chance to nose into possible werewolf kills and get in touch with former pack members who chose to go rogue when Jeremy took control. Elena and Clay realise that the three objectives might well be linked. So they have to find Reece and protect him, track the wolf kills and find Clay's friends, while watching out for something much more dangerous out in the wild... Yea! At last we are back to the werewolves! They are why I started reading this series in the first place and I know I better enjoy this one because we have 3 books focused on whiny brat Savannah to come and I just don't like her at all. She's fine for bit parts in books but carrying the story alone? Not so much. Having Elena back to tell the story after Hope and especially Robyn was a total joy and I loved every minute of this book. It was well written and fast paced, and I zoomed through it in one night. So Elena is one of my top heroines. She is a 'wife' and mother, a high ranking Pack member, intelligent investigator and someone you can actually like. She is more human than Clay and fully trusted by Jeremy. Clay has greatly evolved from the cold, uncaring character in Bitten. Having the kids and having an injury that impedes his fighting ability has him more vulnerable than ever before, and I liked seeing that side to him. He is actually afraid that he might not be able to protect Elena, Jeremy and the kids and is wondering what he can do about it. He doesn't want to go back to torture and kill version of Clay but feels that he might have to do it. Jeremy is settled in his relationship with Jaime and starting to think about handing over control of the Pack to someone else so he can have a more relaxed life. He always was a reluctant leader anyway so this seems like a natural progression for him. We get a few other characters appearing in this book as well. It was good to find out what happened to Dennis and Joey, and it was good to explore Clay's conflicted feelings about seeing his old friend again. Joey is frantic with worry about the missing Noah and is prepared to use Clay and Elena to find his son. Nick and Antonio never appear enough for my liking so it was great to see them in the plot again. I love both of these guys. We are also introduced to the runaway rogue Reece, Joey's son Noah and a cast of seriously bad guys. And those twins, especially Kate, are going to be big trouble! It was weird to imagine Jeremy trying to babysit those little monsters! Travis is just plain evil and he is totally obsessed with the idea of capturing and raping Elena. When she comes into contact with him, Elena gets terrible flashbacks back to her abusive past, and the fear comes with it. Having Elena feeling frozen with fear, and Clay not always able to help her because of his arm adds a vulnerable side to the whole relationship. You know that the bad guys have more of a chance to win this time which is unsettling to poor readers like me! Don't hurt my darn werewolves!!! I liked the plot. The bad guys this time feel more of a threat and our couple are in danger a lot more. It explores the human emotions of the werewolves as situations get out of control. Fear, betrayal, panic, helplessness, anger, the determination not to be a victim-these are things the readers can relate to. I loved the evolution of Clay and Elena, individually, and as a couple. I liked the kidnap plot and the monster in the woods story that just added a different twist to things. I could not get the image of a Sasquatch tribe out of my head when I was reading about the first attack! There was a lot of tension and action in the book, which is just my kind of urban fantasy! It is one of the best books in the series and a fitting tribute to the werewolves. Now I wish I could get a version with a better cover... ...more Frostbitten - Best of Clay and Elena so far - Great addition to Armstong's series When the mutt Elena is chasing flees to Alaska, Pack enforcers werewolf Elena and her mate Clay are they are asked to do double duty and also check into some wolf mauling deaths in the frozen North - they suspect rogue 'weres' are behind the killings. As their search expands to include the mysterious disappearance of an old friend living the area, the pair is going to discover that that much is hidden in isolated A Frostbitten - Best of Clay and Elena so far - Great addition to Armstong's series When the mutt Elena is chasing flees to Alaska, Pack enforcers werewolf Elena and her mate Clay are they are asked to do double duty and also check into some wolf mauling deaths in the frozen North - they suspect rogue 'weres' are behind the killings. As their search expands to include the mysterious disappearance of an old friend living the area, the pair is going to discover that that much is hidden in isolated Alaskan wildness and for once this hunt may present more of a challenge to the notoriously powerful pair when the hunters become the hunted. There is a great deal going on in Frostbitten, Elena especially ends up fighting for her life and it's a close thing. And with an adversary who brings one of the ghosts of Elena's past to light with his plan to violate Elena before killing her, the battle for Elena here is just as much a mental one as a physical one. There are no easy wins in Frostbitten, as their enemy is smart enough to separate the pair. Frostbitten also finally provides some growth for the Clay and Elena, as they are forced to work through their feelings about what Elena being named successor to Jeremy as Pack alpha will mean to their relationship and their family - Clay's dilemma was especially interesting to me as he tries to figure out how he will adapt his role as pack protector to meet the challenge of a fading reputation when he is no longer 100% physically and has so much more to protect. Frostbitten is my favorite of book of the Armstrong's women of the Underworld series in quite a while, despite the fact that Elena and Clay are not my favorite pairing - normally I don't like them anywhere near as well as Paige and Lucas - but they are really good here. Next up is Eve in a hardcover novella in December 2009. ...more Elena and Clay head off to Alaska in Frostbitten to track and aid a young mutt in danger. While there they find something far beyond the supernatural they're accustomed to. Frostbitten takes the reader deep into shapeshifter mythology, while also providing a look at both Elena and Clay's pasts. Frostbitten offers much in the way of action and passion. Elena and Clay away from the twins and their day-to-day lives allows for room to explore their relationship as well as how they've both changed fro Elena and Clay head off to Alaska in Frostbitten to track and aid a young mutt in danger. While there they find something far beyond the supernatural they're accustomed to. Frostbitten takes the reader deep into shapeshifter mythology, while also providing a look at both Elena and Clay's pasts. Frostbitten offers much in the way of action and passion. Elena and Clay away from the twins and their day-to-day lives allows for room to explore their relationship as well as how they've both changed from the beginning of the series. With more change on the horizon for Elena, it's a pleasure to see her hardening somewhat - not freaking out over the things Clay has to do to protect the pack and even becoming more pragmatic when it comes to what she herself will do to protect the ones she loves. We don't see much of the others - pack nor supernatural friends. Frostbitten is truly Elena's book. We spend a lot of time in her mind as she considers her life, past, present and future. I enjoyed Elena's thoughts, but at certain times it felt like one rehashing too many. We know Elena loves Clay and has gotten over their rocky past, so we don't need to be reminded again and again of what she went through to finally realize she was happy. Steamy scenes, life or death situations and a couple of surprising twists kept me entertained throughout. Frostbitten isn't destined to be my favorite Women of the Otherworld book, but moves Elena and the pack's story along nicely. ...more So I started reading this book and loved it, then I hated it, then I loved it again. One thing I enjoy about Kelley Armstrong is the growth and develpment of her characters. THe downside of that is what sometimes happens to characters you used to love. Elena has a lot of positive growth in this book. In previous books, Elena has often made rash decisions with out thinking about the potential consequences of those decisions. In this book, she really begins to understand that she needs to start ma So I started reading this book and loved it, then I hated it, then I loved it again. One thing I enjoy about Kelley Armstrong is the growth and develpment of her characters. THe downside of that is what sometimes happens to characters you used to love. Elena has a lot of positive growth in this book. In previous books, Elena has often made rash decisions with out thinking about the potential consequences of those decisions. In this book, she really begins to understand that she needs to start making better short term decisions (her long term decision making skills have always been pretty good). I was so excited that we were getting back to the Stilwells. THen Dennis was killed. I was pretty unhappy over that. THen Joey has grown, but not into something better. But I could see his point about not wanting to be ruled by the werewolf side of himself. Then he made a stupid reckless decision that made Elena's previous reckless decisions look carefully orchestrated by comparison. I'm pretty disappointed in him. The pack has grown, and the twins are a delight to read about. The werewolves are finally becoming stronger as a team, and while they are connected to the outside world, I'm glad they mostly stick to themselves. And Nick, the one character who never seems to disappoint. THere is never enough of him. ...more I love this series and Elena and Clay are by far my favorites. This book was jam packed with lots of action, seeing all of the pack memebers, learning about the others in the world, and the pack changing. With this book you can tell both Elena and Clay have grown up and accepted who they are and their lives, both what happened in the past and how their lives were now. Choices made in the past have lead them to the strong positions they are in, but as they have grown up so has the world around the I love this series and Elena and Clay are by far my favorites. This book was jam packed with lots of action, seeing all of the pack memebers, learning about the others in the world, and the pack changing. With this book you can tell both Elena and Clay have grown up and accepted who they are and their lives, both what happened in the past and how their lives were now. Choices made in the past have lead them to the strong positions they are in, but as they have grown up so has the world around them, starting to leave them behind. Chasing the mutts around Elena stumbles into all kinds of crazy adventures. It seemed like one problem lead to another, lead to another, lead to another. Just when one was taken care of there was another right there to face. And with each problem the things that were brought up correlated to an event in the past. Seeing those paralell paths and how they dealt with them then and now was interesting. Also seeing how the pack has to change to keep up with the way the world is changing is interesting as well. These changes definately bring their own problems, but they also solve some as well. All in all a great book, hard to put down. Looking forward to see what we can expect next!! ...more Smart, scary, funny and incredibly emotional, this is yet another amazing book by Kelley Armstrong. In this installment we see the supernatural world expanding to include other species and unknown magic, such as the Shifters (werewolf type creatures), a werewolf who decided to take a 'gap year/ experiment' type holiday in wolf form rather than go backpacking and creepy lights that like to lead unwitting people into ice rivers. Elena made for a wonderful narrator yet again, and it was interesting Smart, scary, funny and incredibly emotional, this is yet another amazing book by Kelley Armstrong. In this installment we see the supernatural world expanding to include other species and unknown magic, such as the Shifters (werewolf type creatures), a werewolf who decided to take a 'gap year/ experiment' type holiday in wolf form rather than go backpacking and creepy lights that like to lead unwitting people into ice rivers. Elena made for a wonderful narrator yet again, and it was interesting to learn even more about her, although a bit upsetting at some points when she's talking about her childhood. Reading about the relationship between her and Clay was fascinating, very funny, loving and emotional, i don't think i've ever come across a literary couple who understand each other as much as they do. I did find it a bit difficult at times to keep up with some of the characters as there were a lot of new ones introduced, but really, that's not so much of a criticism as that you need to flick back sometimes to remind you, which takes 10 seconds. So don't let that put you off in any way. To sum up, loved it! Can't wait for the next in the series and to see what Savannah as a narrator will be like :-) ...more I love the feeling of starting a new Kelley Armstrong book, it feels so comfortable and snug with characters who are more like old friends rather than words on a page. Do I get too involved in novels? Maybe! In Frostbitten we meet up again with the ever gorgeous werewolf couple Elena and Clay who are a joy to read about \u2013 Kelley Armstrong does a good job capturing the playfulness, love and companionship of their long standing relationship. This time they are headed to Alaska on the heals of a mu I love the feeling of starting a new Kelley Armstrong book, it feels so comfortable and snug with characters who are more like old friends rather than words on a page. Do I get too involved in novels? Maybe! In Frostbitten we meet up again with the ever gorgeous werewolf couple Elena and Clay who are a joy to read about \u2013 Kelley Armstrong does a good job capturing the playfulness, love and companionship of their long standing relationship. This time they are headed to Alaska on the heals of a mutt but end up encountering a whole lot more than they bargained for\u2026I will be devastated when I finally get to the end of this series, only 3 more books to go *sob* ...more In \"Frostbitten\", Elena starts to come to terms with who she will be in the future; but in order to do that she has to face some deep-seated fears from here past. In a cold, unforgiving landscape that has some mysterious creatures running wild, Elena and her fierce husband Clay have to find out what is going on. And they have to stop it while coming across some nasty \"mutts\" in the process. This is s a great read, it brings Elena full circle, and then helps her rise to a new level. One of the b In \"Frostbitten\", Elena starts to come to terms with who she will be in the future; but in order to do that she has to face some deep-seated fears from here past. In a cold, unforgiving landscape that has some mysterious creatures running wild, Elena and her fierce husband Clay have to find out what is going on. And they have to stop it while coming across some nasty \"mutts\" in the process. This is s a great read, it brings Elena full circle, and then helps her rise to a new level. One of the best novels in the series, for sure. ...more Frostbitten brings us back to the beginning by focusing on the werewolves Elena and Clay. It seems like Kelley Armstrong learned from her past mistakes and returned to what works for the stories. This is a strong story where the werewolves are in Alaska and end up hunting mutts and meeting potential pack members, unlike Broken. We also are not jumping from pov to pov like in Persona Demons. Hopefully the rest of the series fallows suit. Always a pleasure to read another Elana story. They get better and better. It was interesting to have a reference to the Russian Werewolf pack. I hope that they will appear in a future story. I can't get enough of Elena and Clay. I really hope she writes more about them especially since the new developments with Elena. More Clay, yeah! As long as Elena and Clay don't break up, is all I'm hoping for. This is my fave Elena and Clay story. It reminded me a bit of Alpha and Omega. So many paranormal creatures hiding in Alaska. I want to know more about the different werewolves! I still have a hard time seeing Elena as the Alpha but there really is no other option. I am glad I have stuck with this series even though I did not care for them to start. Lots of character growth going on. From http://readingandwritingurbanfantasy.... At A Glance Yay. I love any book with Elena and Clay in it when it comes to this series. I just wish I got to see more of their twins. The Good As many of you know, Elena and Clay books are my favorite and this one is no exception. Frostbitten really tied up some loose ends for me, especially with the couple's relationship. We know that Elena and Clay don't always communicate well and even act like children sometimes, but since they had their twins, I se From http://readingandwritingurbanfantasy.... At A Glance Yay. I love any book with Elena and Clay in it when it comes to this series. I just wish I got to see more of their twins. The Good As many of you know, Elena and Clay books are my favorite and this one is no exception. Frostbitten really tied up some loose ends for me, especially with the couple's relationship. We know that Elena and Clay don't always communicate well and even act like children sometimes, but since they had their twins, I see a huge change in them. They are more mature, more responsible, and closer than ever. This is really Elena's book where she considers her past, present, and future. We get glimpses of Elena's past and how she dealt with the horrors of being a foster child. We also see her for the woman she is today: a loving mother, supporting wife, and kickass werewolf. We finally see her as a true future alpha with responsibilities she can now easily handle. Clay too faces his past and proves to be the best father ever and comes to truly embrace his partnership with Elena. I can finally see the happy ending they so deserve and it makes me smile. The Alaskan setting was a nice change up and the plot was intense. We encounter some really effed up werewolves who eat humans. That's a big no-no, so Elena and Clay are sent to investigate while trying to save this one rogue Mutt from getting into deeper crap than he can handle. The mystery about the \"creatures\" was awesome. I always love learning new supernatural mythology. We get some intense life or death situations and heart-pounding twists that I didn't see coming. Frostbitten is fast-paced and full of action. We don't see too many of the other characters we know from the series, but that's okay. All I need is Elena and Clay and I am content. The Bad I was a little disappointed that we didn't get to see more of Clay and Elena's twins. I wanted to see them interact together but we only got a few scenes with them and I felt jipped. This is Elena and Clay's last book in the series, it would have been nice to see them as a family more. The Snuggly We get a couple love scenes that are well done but not overly explicit. Final Thoughts This is a quick read that will keep you glued to the pages. I love that we delve even deeper into both Elena and Clay as individuals and as a couple. Armstrong is really great at characterization. That's what keeps me reading. Highly recommended. Quotes \u201cNext Clay gave the house rules for living with the Sorrentinos, which sounded a lot like the Ten Commandments. Thou shall not lie, steal anything, kill anyone, disrespect your hosts or covet any of Nick's girlfriends. And if you break the rules, you'll get your ass kicked and handed to you in pieces\u2014a part I suspect God left out.\u201d ***** \u201cDid you use a chainsaw?\" Joey said. \"I seem to recall you like chainsaws.\" \"There wasn't a power outlet.\" Clay turned to me. \"That's what I want for Father's Day, darling. A gas powered chainsaw.\u201d Women of the Otherworld Series: Book #1: Bitten Book #2: Stolen Book #3: Dime Store Magic Book #4: Industrial Magic Book #5: Haunted Book #6: Broken Book #7: No Humans Involved Book #8: Personal Demon Book #9: Living with the Dead Book #10: Frostbitten Book #11: Waking the Witch Book #12: Spell Bound Book #13: Thirteen Similar Reading: Mercedes Thompson Series Chicagoland Vampires Series Night Huntress Series Kate Daniels Series ...more I like some of Kelley Armstrong's books, but this unfortunately wasn't one of them. Sometimes when reading her books, I'll see instantly that she's decided something will happen, no matter what. A chase in this book was a good example. I knew very quickly two things. First, Elena wasn't getting help anytime soon even though it should have been there. Second, Elena wasn't going to escape her pursuer. Spoiler alert! This is a very minor spoiler, but I didn't want to catch anyone by surprise. At on I like some of Kelley Armstrong's books, but this unfortunately wasn't one of them. Sometimes when reading her books, I'll see instantly that she's decided something will happen, no matter what. A chase in this book was a good example. I knew very quickly two things. First, Elena wasn't getting help anytime soon even though it should have been there. Second, Elena wasn't going to escape her pursuer. Spoiler alert! This is a very minor spoiler, but I didn't want to catch anyone by surprise. At one point Elena and Cliff split up to draw in some murderous mutts. Elena waits but is accosted by a human, whom she knocks down. Then this random lunatic jumps into his truck and tries to run her down repeatedly. While messing with the human, a gigantic steroid-infused werewolf sneaks up on her, somehow getting right into the back of the truck with her without her smelling or hearing him. I'm suspicious that one of the inevitable outcomes is coming... By this point she's whistling for Cliff, and he responds, but he's off somewhere ambiguous, behind some buildings. He's close enough for them to whistle back and forth, but can't seem to get to Elena before the Second Coming. Elena tries to square off with the hulk, dodging a straight punch but getting clobbered with a hook. OK, while it's extremely unlikely to get caught with a hook if you can dodge a straight, it happens. But then the crazy starts coming in droves. Elena takes off while the hulk kills the crazy human, and though she's much smaller and (I'd hope) faster, she can't shake him. She's still whistling. Cliff is still whistling. Still no Cliff. Somehow this giant werewolf catches up to Elena by climbing a building and jumping down on her. This is where I can no longer suspend disbelief, and it's painfully obvious that Elena can't get away and help isn't coming. The Creator has spoken. First, it's a lot more time-consuming and noisy to climb a building than to run on level ground. Then she sees him jump and despite her attempt to evade, he catches her jacket. I don't care how fast you are - the rate of gravity is the same for all objects. Then she slips on the gravel, \"negating her speed advantage\". I didn't notice that she had any speed advantage at this point, and if she can't maintain good footing on the gravel, how can the steroid wolf giant? Elena then decides to run around the building in a circle until Cliff arrives. My jaw dropped open at this, but I wasn't too aggravated, because I knew she'd never make it even once around. Guess what? Elena promptly runs into a fence, which blocks her escape. Wow, what a shocker. There are always times in books where something weird or coincidental happens, but there are many places in Armstrong's books where it literally seems like the universe itself conspires to a certain end. Which it does, of course. She's the author after all. It just shouldn't seem so obvious. The worst part is that this kind of thing happens in this series all the time. I felt like if Cliff somehow managed to make it to her, the ground itself would swallow him up. This is really the only gripe I have this the Women of the Otherworld series. This one wasn't my favorite, but I'd recommend reading the others, even with the strong-arm tactics of the Armstrong universe. The characters are engaging, and the stories pull you into a world that's very similar to ours, but contains a supernatural underbelly. ...more Without a doubt the werewolf books in Kelley Armstrong's 'Women of the Otherworld' series are the best. If I were able to get a chance to talk to the other herself I would ask whether she enjoyed them writing them more, as it certainly comes across that way in the narrative. For those of you that have not read any of the previous books in the series I would recommend you read them first, I have listed them in order at the bottom of this review for your reference. The books follow the life of Elen Without a doubt the werewolf books in Kelley Armstrong's 'Women of the Otherworld' series are the best. If I were able to get a chance to talk to the other herself I would ask whether she enjoyed them writing them more, as it certainly comes across that way in the narrative. For those of you that have not read any of the previous books in the series I would recommend you read them first, I have listed them in order at the bottom of this review for your reference. The books follow the life of Elena Michaels. In a world where werewolves are very real, the condition passed on through a hereditary gene from father to son. Very few humans have ever survived a werewolf a bite and certainly never a woman, which makes Elena the only female werewolf in existence. In this fourth installment in the series, Elena and her tempestuous mate Clay are now parents and are a little older and a touch wiser. Chasing a stray mutt and investigating a series of mysterious wolf deaths they end up in the frosty Alaskan wilderness. Alaska is great setting for the novel, its remote and somewhat alien landscape adds to the mysterious and deadly beat of the storyline. As Clay and Elena tackle unsolved crimes, murder, stray mutts and mysterious mythical creatures it made me remember just why I love this series. It's the intense relationship between Elena and Clay that always makes the books and it doesn't fail to deliver again in Frostbitten. They are are independence, wilfulness and strength twinned their all consuming passion for one another is delicious, believable and enough to make women the world over drool. As we've seen in previous novels, being the partner of one of the pack's most notoriously terrifying werewolves and enforcer comes with its problems and this is no exception. And it is Elena's time to prove that she is not in fact Clay's weakness, but his partner in every right. Delving into her childhood in foster care, she has to face up to some old issues in order to face up to future responsibilities. We see the arrival of some new characters that I hope to see again in later books as well as some faces from Clay's past we saw introduced in the 'Men of the Otherworld' novellas. There's a lot more Elena than Clay in the book as well as a twist about Elena's future that I really didn't see coming. My main criticisms of the book are, I would like to see have seen more of the pack, it is mainly centred around Clay and Elena and I missed the witty interactions between them and other pack members that on times make me laugh out loud, and their relationship with the long suffering Alpha Jeremy. I was also disappointed not to see more of their twins in the book and how they were coping as parents, instead they were conveniently at home being looked after Jeremy, giving Elena and Clay free run to frolic, hunt and fight as normal. Which if I'm honest felt like a touch of a cop out. That being said, the book is a great fast, action packed, page turner that kept me up last night reading to the finish. I continue to be a huge fan of the series which I'd heartily recommend to any urban fantasy lover. ...more Another great book for Kelley Armstrong in the Otherworld series. Elena & Clay are the main characters & the main setting is Alaska. Elena is on the search for a mutt (Reese) to warn him of his ex-mutt mates plans to kill him after they have tried to frame him as a man-eater. Reese rus from Elena thinking that she is going to kill him for the human killings. Reese runs to Alaska where Elena follows & Clay joins her. In Alaska all hell breaks loose. Reese gets hurt & finds out all h Another great book for Kelley Armstrong in the Otherworld series. Elena & Clay are the main characters & the main setting is Alaska. Elena is on the search for a mutt (Reese) to warn him of his ex-mutt mates plans to kill him after they have tried to frame him as a man-eater. Reese rus from Elena thinking that she is going to kill him for the human killings. Reese runs to Alaska where Elena follows & Clay joins her. In Alaska all hell breaks loose. Reese gets hurt & finds out all he had to do is stop running & talk to Elena, but he was scared. Now Reese is injured & damanged, Elena has sent him to Nick & Antonio to help heal. In Alaska there are 3 mutts making a ruckus & they have kidnapped Elena too many times for me to remember. One (Travis) a rapist who is set in his ways & wants Elena for his fetish. And his brother trying to relocate some mutts from Russia to America to start there illegal activities & make a life for themselves by settling in. **SPOILER ALERT*** There are wild native wolves in Alaska, this is not uncommon but what is shocking to see for Elena & Clay is a werewolf (Morgan) leading that pack. Also disturbing is the \"creatures\" they have come across. They are a pack as well of shifters, half wolf half man beast, huge like a giant bear & dangerous. This is there land & all others are not welcome. Also in Alaska & another reason why Elena & Clay are here is to check in on friends of Jeremy's. Dennis who took his son Joey & left the pack because of some deputes. Joey wants nothing to do with Clay or Nick even though they grew up together. He is living a \"normal\" life & trying to leave the wolf life behind him. Dennis & him no longer speak on a regular basis. Noah is found out to be Joey's son whom Dennis took in to show the ropes of werewolf life. Noah is in some trouble & on probation so he has to live at the detention center for another 6 months until his sentence is up. Noah's mother abandoned him to Joey's care & Joey is not ready for this. Noah is kidnapped by the Russian mutts, Elena is kidnapped by the Russian mutts, Joey backstabs Clay, Clay is drugged & Elena traded to the Russians for Noah. Noah escapes but leave Elena with the Russians. Joey disappears leaving all the mess & lives to be taken care of by Clay & The Pack. Jeremy calls all hands on deck to rescue Elena & help Clay. Elena escapes the Russian mutts to be taken by the Creature Shifters then told to take care of the Russian mutts in order to get Noah back which they now have as a hostage. Well then the action begins. LOL Will Elena be freed? Will Noah be freed? Will Noah join the pack now that Joey has fleed? Will Reese join the pack? Will Morgan join the pack? Will Elena or Clay become Alpha? Will Jeremy & Jamie's relationship continue? You will have to read to find out the answers..... ...more", "Title": "Frostbitten"},
