{"Comments": "Holling Hoodhood\u2019s got a problem. It\u2019s 1967, and he\u2019s just started seventh grade at Camillo Junior High,<---M> and his teacher</---M>, Mrs.<---F> Baker, hates his guts</---F>. Every Wednesday afternoon, half of the kids in Holling\u2019s class go to Hebrew school and the other half go to St. Adelbert\u2019s for catechism. And Holling, as the only Presbyterian in the class, stays behind with Mrs. Baker. And Mrs. Baker makes him read Shakespeare. Outside of class. What follows is a year in Holling\u2019s life, a year of Wednesdays with Mrs Holling Hoodhood\u2019s got a problem. It\u2019s 1967, and he\u2019s just started seventh grade at Camillo Junior High, and his teacher, Mrs. Baker, hates his guts. Every Wednesday afternoon, half of the kids in Holling\u2019s class go to Hebrew school and the other half go to St. Adelbert\u2019s for catechism. And Holling, as the only Presbyterian in the class, stays behind with Mrs. Baker. And Mrs. Baker makes him read Shakespeare. Outside of class. What follows is a year in Holling\u2019s life, a year of Wednesdays with Mrs. Baker and life in general. It\u2019s 1967, and his sister wants to be a flower child, and his father owns the architecture firm Hoodhood and Associates and sees Holling as The Son Who Will Inherit Hoodhood and Associates. There are rats, and cream puffs, and Doug Swieteck\u2019s brother. There are telegrams and baseballs and tights (<---B>with feathers!</---B>) and atomic bomb drills. This is a quiet book that gets you in all the right places. If I had to sum it up in a phrase, I\u2019d say it was about how people surprise you\u2014sometimes in bad ways, and more often in very good ways. It\u2019s about heroes\u2014the ones you create for yourself, and the ones that you discover. It\u2019s about finding your way when the world is confusing. It\u2019s about being in seventh grade, and learning that it\u2019s not who you are that matters, but who you decide to be. This book made me laugh out loud on the subway, those big belly laughs that make strangers think you\u2019re crazy. It also made me cry, no less that four times. This is not a book with great tragedy, but it is a book with great power. It\u2019s a book that made me feel. I read it slowly, reading and rereading each line and word, savoring the chapters. But I didn\u2019t horde it, didn\u2019t put it down and save it for later, because I could. not. stop. reading. I just couldn\u2019t. It wasn\u2019t so much that I needed to know what happened\u2014it was more that I desperately wanted to hear Holling\u2019s voice in my head some more. I wanted more afternoons with Mrs. Baker. This is the kind of book that you read and reread, and then read bits aloud to the people you care about, because you want to share it with them. It\u2019s the kind of book that makes you feel like you really, really know the characters, like what happens to them is important to you. It\u2019s the kind of book that makes you want to read Shakespeare, and more importantly, to curse like Caliban. It\u2019s really one of the best reading experiences I\u2019ve had in a long time. I urge you to read it. I want to talk about the Mickey Mantle episode with you. I want to hear what you think about cream puffs. And I want you to know what I mean when I say, \u201ctoads, beetles, bats.\u201d Or \u201cchrysanthemum.\u201d Mostly, I want you to meet Holling Hoodhood and Mrs. Baker, two of my new favorite literary creations. I want them to be part of your life the way they\u2019ve been part of mine since I started this book. I really think you\u2019ll like them a lot. ...more this is my second book for the readventurer challenge. this book is very...sweet. and ordinarily,a sweet book would make me feel like i had chiggers or something else foul crawling under my skin, and its earnest gee-whizzery would make me feel unclean just because of my mental rolodex of words that are more satisfying to say in moments of astonishment or crisis than \"gee whiz.\" but this one was different. this one was entirely wholesome, yeah, but wholesome and satisfying like fresh-baked bread, a this is my second book for the readventurer challenge. this book is very...sweet. and ordinarily,a sweet book would make me feel like i had chiggers or something else foul crawling under my skin, and its earnest gee-whizzery would make me feel unclean just because of my mental rolodex of words that are more satisfying to say in moments of astonishment or crisis than \"gee whiz.\" but this one was different. this one was entirely wholesome, yeah, but wholesome and satisfying like fresh-baked bread, and i didn't want to roll my eyes at all. this book is many things, but for me, the best part is the inspirational-teacher aspect of it. i loved the way holling's character changed under mrs. baker's ministrations; how his worldview expanded through shakespeare as he was able to find parallels between the stories of shakespeare and the trials facing him in his own life.he went from a boy who was scared of his teacher and believed everyone was against him, to a confident, articulate boy who found the strength to stand up to his father,fight injustice and face his fears. my only complaint is that there isn't much in the way of dramatic tension. you learn pretty early on that any time something negative could happen, it is like there is a teflon bubble of groovy sixties optimism that just protects him from bad times. and this despite the backdrop of the vietnam war. but it is middle grade, and who wants to make a ten-year-old cry, right? but- yeah - it is pretty forrest gumpy, down to the running and everything. but it means well, and it is a sweet story that i am glad i read. i will make this review make more sense later - right now my brain is completely melted. ...more A Review in Two Parts Part One Ariel , recommended this book to me, and she wrote a fine good review of the book. You can find it by clicking on her name. I really liked the book, but didn't love it. I think the things I didn't love about the book were me being a crank. For example, the myopic narrator view point of a seventh grader was great; it caught the distortions that a kid sees the world through and the way teachers and others outside of their own circle are depersonalized into roles instead A Review in Two Parts Part One Ariel , recommended this book to me, and she wrote a fine good review of the book. You can find it by clicking on her name. I really liked the book, but didn't love it. I think the things I didn't love about the book were me being a crank. For example, the myopic narrator view point of a seventh grader was great; it caught the distortions that a kid sees the world through and the way teachers and others outside of their own circle are depersonalized into roles instead of people. Without being preachy, though. But, then I would not like the Wally and Beaver golly-gee attitude that would at times sneak into the book. Sometimes it worked for good comic effect but it seemed too pure and innocent for me. Another part that I'm not quite sure how I feel is the Forest Gump path the story veers off into sometimes. But maybe if Tom Hanks hadn't starred in the movie I wouldn't be annoyed by anything that reminds me of the movie. On the plus side, I really like the month of May in the book (each chapter is a month in the school year). I was a little afraid of what May may bring when I was reading the book, you know since it would be May 1968, probably the most tragic month of the second half of the 20th century. I'm not interested in going into detail and talking late story plot developments or anything, so I'll just leave it that the author does a great job capturing a certain pathos by this point in the novel that originally had only been a suburban comedic effect. If I was a teacher of young adults and I had them read this book, I'd probably test them by asking them this question: \"Tragedy or Comedy? Why? Explain and Defend\". Part Two (If you are averse to potty mouth language please go away, I'm about to rant it up. You've been warned. Now go away if you don't like dirty words. Seriously. Go Away) Anyway, thank you for sticking around. This part is called Wednesday Wars as Republican Fantasy , or something like that. The basic premise of this book is that there is this one WASP kid in a Long Island class surrounded by Papists taking orders from the Vatican (and thus only a step better than Communists, but never to be trusted as real Americans) and Jews (those greedy fucks who run the banks., ie., the ones who figure a way to swindle the poor upper middle class white Protestant males money from him through usury, liberal politics, socialism and ultimately Communism). This paragon of WHITE AMERICA is (gasp!) a MINORITY in this own home, and further more sees that the people in power (his teacher) irrationally hates him! (Just like Big Government (i.e., Liberals, Democrats, (see Jews! ) hate the SILENT MAJORITY - which is not mentioned in the book, but which would be used as a rallying slogan by Nixon in the 1968 elections)). See the character in this book as RIGHT WING CHRISTIAN AMERICA circa, well whenever, but today is good. When they are a MAJORITY but for some reason see themselves as a persecuted MINORITY , and they are angry, ANGRY, ANGRY!!!!! that anyone else gets any of the pie besides them, and that if people aren't on their hands and knees sucking their dicks then they are only trying to steal their money and take things away from them (see THOSE FUCKING GAYS WITH THEIR WANTING TO GET MARRIED!!!! HOW DARE THEY!!!!!! ). This might sound like fiction, but sadly it's not. A 13 year old has the right to seeing the world in a distorted manner or persecution. A nation of adults seeing the world in the same way is sad?, scary?, retarded?, enough to make one (me) want to seriously reconsider democracy and not let those suffering from extreme persecution delusions have a right to vote? All of the above? This isn't even so much a rant, as a pointing out of another story going on in this book. Sadly, for my theory here, the White, Right and Dumb American story falls apart after a chapter or two. Which goes to show that 13 year olds can grow, but stupid ignorant tea-baggers haven't yet shown that they can. ...more This book is a heartwarming mix of nostalgia, life lessons, beauty, and awkward humor with a nice side of brown\u2026light\u2026 perfect cream puffs. And let me tell you; it\u2019s really swell. Holling Hoodhood is the only kid in the seventh grade who doesn\u2019t have to attend either Temple or Catechism on Wednesday afternoons. No, instead he gets to spend every single Wednesday afternoon with Mrs. Baker, who hates his guts. Each Wednesday she finds new ways to torture him: endless cleaning of chalkboard erasers, This book is a heartwarming mix of nostalgia, life lessons, beauty, and awkward humor with a nice side of brown\u2026light\u2026 perfect cream puffs. And let me tell you; it\u2019s really swell. Holling Hoodhood is the only kid in the seventh grade who doesn\u2019t have to attend either Temple or Catechism on Wednesday afternoons. No, instead he gets to spend every single Wednesday afternoon with Mrs. Baker, who hates his guts. Each Wednesday she finds new ways to torture him: endless cleaning of chalkboard erasers, rodent wrangling, and Shakespeare. On the surface, this book seems idealistic and a bit light. But as it unfolds, there are moments of truth, tragedy, and deep emotion. The story takes place during one of the most tumultuous times in American history, and the undercurrents of the Vietnam War and the Civil Rights Movement are ever present. In the beginning, Holling is an unassuming, agreeable boy who seems to take whatever Mrs. Baker and the other students have to dish out. He has moments of small rebellion (mostly in his head), but he doesn\u2019t really stand up for himself. But by the end of this story, he has confidence and conviction. His growth into a mature almost-man is incredibly moving. I fell in love with all of the characters in this book: Mrs. Baker, evil mastermind; Danny, my pied ninny fighting hero; Holling\u2019s sister, innocently rebellious; even Mrs. Bigio, who resurrected her gods. This book grabbed a hold of my emotions and carried me right along. It\u2019s rare that I am able to completely buy in to a story this wholesome and light hearted, but it happened here. I also love Holling\u2019s changing reactions to the words and lessons of the Shakespeare plays that he reads. It makes me think of all of the great works that I\u2019ve read, that have impacted me in completely different ways at different times of my life. I think that\u2019s what great literature does: it speaks across age and experience. It translates for all of us, in different but equally powerful ways. This is one of the best audio performances I\u2019ve come across. Joel Johnstone sounds quite a bit like Fred Savage (which only adds the Wonder Years vibe that I get from this book). He also manages to capture Mrs. Baker\u2019s dry genius, Meryl Lee\u2019s sweetness, and Holling\u2019s father\u2019s brusque indifference. And the voice that he uses for Mrs. Brigio sounds exactly like lunch lady Doris from the Simpsons! Perfect Musical Pairing Paul Simon \u2013 American Tune One of my favorite songs, about the despair and weariness of the American past and present, but I think that it ends on a hopeful note. Tomorrow\u2019s going to be another day, and we don\u2019t know what will come, but we will face whatever it is. ...more There\u2019s something very pleasant about kids\u2019 books written in the \u201960s. They have an assurance that books written in later, more apologetic and hesitant decades lack. They\u2019re usually untroubled by the social upheaval all around them. Hippies may show up here or there, but the books are more likely to be about time travel, or inventions, or mysteries. This is one of the things you can only learn from consuming texts from that era: that people who lived in the \u201960s didn\u2019t know they were living in th There\u2019s something very pleasant about kids\u2019 books written in the \u201960s. They have an assurance that books written in later, more apologetic and hesitant decades lack. They\u2019re usually untroubled by the social upheaval all around them. Hippies may show up here or there, but the books are more likely to be about time travel, or inventions, or mysteries. This is one of the things you can only learn from consuming texts from that era: that people who lived in the \u201960s didn\u2019t know they were living in the \u201960s . Watch Blow-Up for the scene in which a character (in a film that features the Yardbirds) invites a girl back to his swinging pad and plays on the hifi elevator jazz. Don\u2019t you know what decade you\u2019re in? you want to scream at him. Play the Yardbirds, you idiot! But he doesn\u2019t know. He doesn\u2019t know. Much less pleasant are contemporary kids\u2019 books that take place in the \u201960s. All of a sudden the author (a baby boomer, no doubt) realizes he\u2019s writing about the most significant decade since the end of the Roman republic, and he can hardly stop his giggling. Assurance becomes smugness. The book becomes a checklist. Kennedys? Check. Vietnam? Check. Air-raid drills? Flower children? Political assassinations? Civil rights? The generation gap? Student unrest? Rock and roll? Check, check them all! Wednesday Wars checks them all off, dutifully, and unimaginatively. It\u2019s more or less a sitcom otherwise, with sitcom situations that are sometimes amusing and usually just chaotic and trite. The mary-sue narrator gets to (view spoiler) [hang out with the NY Yankees and make varsity and be a hero and get the girl and \u201cbecome a man.\u201d It was sort of tolerable until the irritatingly wise and wonderful English teacher (stern, but with a heart of gold) was revealed to be an Olympic silver medalist. (hide spoiler) ] At this point, Stanley Fish\u2019s reader-response meter moved to vomit. Is the author an English teacher and a child of the \u201960s? By gum, says wikipedia, he is! OMG GUYS! THE SIXTIES! ...more If a junior high aged boy is part of your household, give him this book. He'll love it, and it will do him good. And if you happen to have been in junior high during the year 1968, this book can serve as a reminder of life (and national politics) at that time. In case you don't remember, 1968 is the year that both Martin Luther King and Robert F. Kennedy were assassinated. People today worry about the polarization of American politics. Back in the late 60s things were more polarized, and in a muc If a junior high aged boy is part of your household, give him this book. He'll love it, and it will do him good. And if you happen to have been in junior high during the year 1968, this book can serve as a reminder of life (and national politics) at that time. In case you don't remember, 1968 is the year that both Martin Luther King and Robert F. Kennedy were assassinated. People today worry about the polarization of American politics. Back in the late 60s things were more polarized, and in a much closer to home way at the family level. It seemed as if each American household was polarized with the youth contingent wanting to drop out, grow long hair, and be an anti-Vietnam-war protester and hippie. Meanwhile their parents were going ballistic over how spoiled and degenerate the younger generation was. In this story the junior high boy has a high school aged sister who aspires to be a flower child much to the consternation of her parents. I was originally attracted to this book because the main character who is a junior high student happens to be attending a school where he is the only student in his class who is not either Jewish or Catholic (his family is Presbyterian). Consequently, when the students leave once per week for released time religious classes, he is the only one left in class. (Do public schools still have released time ?) That sounded like an interesting situation to write a story about. At first the teacher was probably just as disappointed as the student of being left together in the class room. But they grew to appreciate each other by the end of the story. ...more At first I thought this book was too young for me. The protagonist is a 7th grader, an age I am far past. It was a bit slow at first and my initial conclusion was: This would be great book for a middle school boy, especially one you want to get interested in Shakespeare, but not so great for the general reader. And then I kept reading and realized that this was a brilliant, touching and funny book. Schmidt is excellent at making believable, nuanced characters--not something I often see at books a At first I thought this book was too young for me. The protagonist is a 7th grader, an age I am far past. It was a bit slow at first and my initial conclusion was: This would be great book for a middle school boy, especially one you want to get interested in Shakespeare, but not so great for the general reader. And then I kept reading and realized that this was a brilliant, touching and funny book. Schmidt is excellent at making believable, nuanced characters--not something I often see at books aimed at preteens. None of the villainous characters are simply one note. The cafeteria lady, for example, loses her son in the Vietnam War and takes it out on the little Vietnamese refugee at the school. But at the same time the cafeteria lady shows true kindness and charity to others. Holling's father is another example. He is demanding, distant, competitive, and often gets angry with his daughter's peacnik attitude. But when Martin Luther King, Jr. (who Holling's father actively dislikes) is assassinated, Holling's father is shocked and upset. Holling himself is more complex than he first appears. He is the same initial everykid (smart but not too smart, physically unimpressive, picked on by his sister and unable to understand some basic social cues) in every book aimed at young boys. But he matures into a young man of such courage and character that I wondered how such a cold father and weak mother could be lucky enough to raise such an amazing kid. ...more I think I have come to understand what it takes for a book to be awarded Newbery. It seems these Newberry awarded books are just so wholesome, so full of great life lessons, so sweet and touching in a non-nauseating or preachy way. <+++>The Wednesday Wars</+++> is just like that. 13-year old Holling Hoodhood is in trouble. While his Jewish and Catholic classmates attend religious studies on Wednesday afternoons, he, the only Presbyterian in his class, is forced to spend this time with his English teacher Mr I think I have come to understand what it takes for a book to be awarded Newbery. It seems these Newberry awarded books are just so wholesome, so full of great life lessons, so sweet and touching in a non-nauseating or preachy way. <+++>The Wednesday Wars</+++> is just like that. 13-year old Holling Hoodhood is in trouble. While his Jewish and Catholic classmates attend religious studies on Wednesday afternoons, he, the only Presbyterian in his class, is forced to spend this time with his English teacher Mrs. Baker. Holling is absolutely sure Mrs. Baker hates his guts - she makes him clean the classroom and, eventually, read Shakespeare. But as time goes on, both Mrs. Baker and Shakespeare teach Holling how to be a better friend, son, brother, a better person. The Wednesday Wars is just a sweet coming-of-age story. Holling is an innocent boy who by the end of the story becomes a wiser young man, after going though tribulations of being seen by his classmates wearing yellow tights with feathers on his butt, standing up to his unreasonable father and confronting bullies. The story made me laugh, sigh, and, to my surprise, shed some tears of joy. The only reason I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5, is that it is a little young for my taste, definitely written for middle-grade kids. But otherwise, it is a perfectly enjoyable story. ...more Oh it's the season to read the books we adults want children to read, and in actual fact they have no interest in doing so. Wednesday Wars sadly falls into that catagory. It's 1968, and Holling Hoodhood is stuck with his teacher every Wednesday afternoon when the rest of his class attends religious education classes that their respective places of worship. Holling learns to love Shakespeare, and how to run a good race, and he learns to understand his teacher, Mrs. Baker, and to love his older si Oh it's the season to read the books we adults want children to read, and in actual fact they have no interest in doing so. Wednesday Wars sadly falls into that catagory. It's 1968, and Holling Hoodhood is stuck with his teacher every Wednesday afternoon when the rest of his class attends religious education classes that their respective places of worship. Holling learns to love Shakespeare, and how to run a good race, and he learns to understand his teacher, Mrs. Baker, and to love his older sister, who is mildly caught up in the tumult of the era. Holling was likable, there were humorous parts especially the escaped classroom rats, and he came of age with a few interesting adventures; both bittersweet and funny- Mickey Mantle was a total meathead to poor Holling who at the time rushed from the play he was in and happened to be wearing feathers on his butt playing the fairy, Ariel. I liked this story, and teachers will like this story, and doubtless put it on summer reading lists and the like. Will the majority of kids like this story? If they are assigned it, some will like it. Is this a book most will pick up and read on their own? Not likely. ...more If I had the option to give 6 stars to The Wednesday Wars, I'd do it. I giggled out loud at least 30 times on the bus *and* the train, earning myself a certain public transit notoriety as That Annoying Lady With The Book. And most people didn't even notice me getting teary during the poignant parts. Of course I'd heard glowing reviews of this book, but I didn't love Lizzie Bright and the Buckminster Boy, so I was skeptical. But no longer. Gary Schmidt, please write more! It's 1967-68, and Hollin If I had the option to give 6 stars to The Wednesday Wars, I'd do it. I giggled out loud at least 30 times on the bus *and* the train, earning myself a certain public transit notoriety as That Annoying Lady With The Book. And most people didn't even notice me getting teary during the poignant parts. Of course I'd heard glowing reviews of this book, but I didn't love Lizzie Bright and the Buckminster Boy, so I was skeptical. But no longer. Gary Schmidt, please write more! It's 1967-68, and Holling Hoodhood is the only Presbyterian kid in his seventh-grade class. That means that while half the town is at CCD on Wednesday afternoons and the other half is at Hebrew school, he's stuck in the classroom with his tough-as-nails teacher. First he does small chores, but after a disaster with eraser-cleaning, the teacher sits him down to work his way through Shakespeare. Over the course of the year, he develops a strong relationship with his teacher (and with the Bard's colorful curses). The tumultuous background of 1968 plays heavily in the month-by-month chapters that structure the book. Here's what I loved: Holling's voice (hilarious), the characters (Danny Hupfer!), how much the reader must infer from Holling's point of view in order to appreciate what's going on. Here's what I'm not so sure of: can young readers really appreciate all that's going on, especially the ways in which Holling is not the most reliable narrator? Do they? I enjoyed The Wednesday Wars more than anything I've read in a while, but I couldn't dismiss the nagging voice that kept noisily insisting that this was really a grown-up book dressed up in kid's clothing. The readers at my school with are too young for this book, but I'm eager to hear from other teachers and librarians how it's received by real live teens and tweens. In the meantime, you adult readers of kidlit and YA lit - read it! read it! ...more I love this book. Love, love, love, love, love, love. Love. First, it takes place on Long Island, which I didn't even know when I ordered it for the library. So, sure I got an extra chuckle out of Schmidt's description of LI in November than the reader from, say, Nebraska will. But still, this is just an adorable story and you don't have to be stuck on the Long Island Expressway to enoy it. It reminds me of Richard Peck, if Richard Peck wrote about 1960's surburban life and not 1930's Illinois. I love this book. Love, love, love, love, love, love. Love. First, it takes place on Long Island, which I didn't even know when I ordered it for the library. So, sure I got an extra chuckle out of Schmidt's description of LI in November than the reader from, say, Nebraska will. But still, this is just an adorable story and you don't have to be stuck on the Long Island Expressway to enoy it. It reminds me of Richard Peck, if Richard Peck wrote about 1960's surburban life and not 1930's Illinois. It is heartfelt and hopeful without being hokey. A must-read. ...more This book is written like a monthly diary of a seventh grade boy named Holling Hoodhood. It's supposed to be realistic fiction set in 1967, but the events are about as believable as his name. I didn't like it. Here's why. Everybody around Holling is completely insensitive and cold-hearted, including his father, his mother, his sister, his teacher Mrs. Baker, the school principal, his friends and classmates, Doug Sweiteck's brother, and Micky Mantle. Holling is a complete victim of circumstance. H This book is written like a monthly diary of a seventh grade boy named Holling Hoodhood. It's supposed to be realistic fiction set in 1967, but the events are about as believable as his name. I didn't like it. Here's why. Everybody around Holling is completely insensitive and cold-hearted, including his father, his mother, his sister, his teacher Mrs. Baker, the school principal, his friends and classmates, Doug Sweiteck's brother, and Micky Mantle. Holling is a complete victim of circumstance. He has the worst of fortune due to everyone's mean spiritedness. And then suddenly and without explanation, his bad luck is completely reversed. Someone just happens to do something extraordinarily nice for him without any apparent reason or motivation. Like when Mrs. Baker, who hates his guts, arranges for some of the Yankees players to come to the school to play catch with him. Yes, him. Or when Kowalski & Associates suddenly backs out of the business contract, leaving Holling's dad to fulfill the contract to build the new junior high school. Or the time Holling wants to buy some cream puffs for his friends so they won't beat him up. He's short a couple of dollars, but the baker just happens to need someone who can play a part in a Shakespeare production, and Holling just happens to be memorizing Shakespeare, so he gets the part, not to mention free cream puffs. Whether good luck or bad, everything that happens to Holling just happens to him. It just happens to happen to him. It's not a result of any choices that he makes. He's on a roller-coaster of luck, but always, always the victim of circumstance. And let me tell you, that does not make for a good story. Really. This kind of complete reversal of fortune is an easy way for the writer to get himself out after he's painted himself into a corner. But it's not an easy thing to read. I felt insulted by the lack of sophistication. I expect a more explanation for how things turn around than sheer dumb luck. And I expect the character's actions to have something to do with it. There is no grander plot. Something terrible and wonderful happens each month. Month after month, beginning with the start of the school year. By March, I had to force myself to finish the book. Toads, beetles, bats. Except for the Holling and Mrs. Baker, all of the characters seemed faceless, like the adults in Charlie Brown. And none of them made sense. Mrs. Baker has a split personality. Holling's father doesn't care about anything or anyone except his business, and everyone that Holling knows just happens to be connected to his father's business, either as a partner, potential partner, or competitor. We never see another side of dad. Not even a twinge of sympathy. Not even a crack of a smile. His friends Danny and Mai Thi torment him at the beginning of the school year, threatening to beat him up. In the second half of the book, they are nice friends. I guess it was because Holling gave them cream puffs. All the students at school act in unison. They all hate Holling's guts or regard him as a hero for having his picture in the paper again and again. As though none of the students have anything better to do than to care what Holling Hoodhood is up to. ...more This book was absolutely fabulous! I enjoyed every minute of it. I was very surprised to find out that it was more than just a Jr. High kid putting up with bullies. It was about life and how you deal with different trials no matter what your age is and everyone deals with these trials in different ways. I am totally serious when I say that I laughed and cried and ignored my family until it was done. It is very worthy of the 2008 newberry award. It oozes charm. In the first half of the book, Schmidt really had me. I absolutely loved everything surrounding the incident with the creampuffs and its aftermath. While the charm remained, the second half lacked a bit of direction. It didn't quite stall, but the plot is a very slender reed here. And outside of Holling and Mrs. Baker, the characters are all pretty thin. There's also a fairly horrifying aspect here. During this book, Holling does the following: Appears as Ariel in a local performa It oozes charm. In the first half of the book, Schmidt really had me. I absolutely loved everything surrounding the incident with the creampuffs and its aftermath. While the charm remained, the second half lacked a bit of direction. It didn't quite stall, but the plot is a very slender reed here. And outside of Holling and Mrs. Baker, the characters are all pretty thin. There's also a fairly horrifying aspect here. During this book, Holling does the following: Appears as Ariel in a local performance of The Tempest; gets brushed by a school bus while saving his sister and landing in the hospital, gets opening day tickets to see the Yankees, goes to Port Authority again to rescue his prodigal sister, runs and wins a varsity cross country match. His parents are not there for any of these things. For his performance in the play, they are too busy watching the Bing Crosby Christmas Special. When he lands in the hospital, they couldn't be bothered. For opening day, his father promises to take him, in spite of already having two prior engagements which he knows he will keep. The father is an incredible asshole, more distant than any Dad I knew of while growing up. And the mom is almost a cypher. With parents like these, its basically a miracle that Holling and his sister grow up with any sense at all. This leaves me wondering: is this how many Boomers think of themselves? As having turned out well in spite of the neglect of their parents? An additional charm of this book for me is that I grew up in the next town over from Hicksville, where this takes place. He never mentions Hicksville in the book, but its where Schmidt is from. Also, I was one of the kids who left our school for religious instruction (on Fridays instead of Wednesdays). That lasted until I got kicked out for arguing with the nuns. Schmidt does such a great job of capturing the spirit of growing up in sheltered Long Island in the sixties. It almost makes me think that most of the book would be lost on its targeted audience. That said, early teenagers recommended this one to me, so it must play pretty well to at least some of the YAs (at least those who don't spend all of their time re-reading yet again the same couple of series). ...more In the year of 1967, Holling HoodHood is entering the seventh grade and notices that his English teacher Mrs. Baker hates him. She tries her best to make his life miserable, but with his Dad's Architect firm HoodHood and Associates vying to get the contract for her family's Sporting goods store, all Holling can do is grin and bear it even when she tortures him with Shakespeare. Will he survive? Read on and find out for yourself. This was a pretty good audiobook that I borrowed from my local libra In the year of 1967, Holling HoodHood is entering the seventh grade and notices that his English teacher Mrs. Baker hates him. She tries her best to make his life miserable, but with his Dad's Architect firm HoodHood and Associates vying to get the contract for her family's Sporting goods store, all Holling can do is grin and bear it even when she tortures him with Shakespeare. Will he survive? Read on and find out for yourself. This was a pretty good audiobook that I borrowed from my local library that my mom and I enjoyed. This book made us laugh a lot. Be sure to check this out. It is available at your local library and wherever books are sold. ...more This is a well-written, heart-warming coming of age novel. I really enjoyed it, even if I think it has been written to appeal more to adults than to children. 3.5 stars I learned two new ways to cuss this month. First, my sister Aimee told me that in the Fantastic Mr. Fox movie instead of cussing they say, \"What the cuss!\" Love it! Next, Holling Hoodhood the 7th grade narrator of this delightful book learns all about the best kind of cussing by reading, Shakespeare's \"The Tempest.\" He says,\"Caliban-the monster in the play-he knew cuss words. Even Doug Swieteck's brother couldn't cuss like that-and he could cuss the yellow off a school bus.\" There are great scen I learned two new ways to cuss this month. First, my sister Aimee told me that in the Fantastic Mr. Fox movie instead of cussing they say, \"What the cuss!\" Love it! Next, Holling Hoodhood the 7th grade narrator of this delightful book learns all about the best kind of cussing by reading, Shakespeare's \"The Tempest.\" He says,\"Caliban-the monster in the play-he knew cuss words. Even Doug Swieteck's brother couldn't cuss like that-and he could cuss the yellow off a school bus.\" There are great scenes of Holling practicing these Caliban curses behind closed doors. Holling has me cussing,\"Toads, beetles, bats,\" left and right. Especially when my kids delete my first review of this book to play Nick Jr. \"Toads, beetles, bats,\" I can't remember everything I said the first time. This book is well deserving of the Newbery Honor it received. Holling is the lone Presbyterian stuck at school with his teacher Mrs. Baker (who hates his guts) every Wednesday while half the class heads off to Hebrew school and the other half to Catechism. This book is very reminiscent of, \"The Wonder Years.\" I kept expecting Kevin and Winnie to pop up on the next page. I loved watching the relationship between Holling and Mrs. Baker unfold throughout the year on Wednesday afternoons and beyond. Holling also has a sister in High school and the scenes between the two of them are touching and magical. This book will definitely have you giggling and tearing up constantly. A great book to recommend to your kids or read with them. Thanks to Doug for recommending this wonderful book! Spoiler Alert** I have to include this passage because I checked this out from the library. I want to be able to visit this passage of beautiful writing from time to time: \"Think of the sound you make when you let go after holding your breath for a very, very long time. Think of the gladdest sound you know: the sound of dawn of the first day of spring break, the sound of a bottle of Coke opening, the sound of a crowd cheering in your ears because you're coming down to the last part of a race-and you're ahead. Think of the sound of water over stones in a cold stream, and the sound of wind through green trees on a late May afternoon in Central Park. Think of the sound of a bus coming into the station carrying someone you love. Then put all those together. And they would be nothing compared to the sound that Mrs. Baker made that day from somewhere deep inside that had almost given up, when she heard the first line of that telegram. The she started to hiccup, and to cry, and to laugh...\" I'm Crying all over again! ...more Really charming. It was the same kind of nostalgic book as Penny From Heaven, but better-written, funnier, and more real-feeling. (This one has its obvious parallel in a really good episode of The Wonder Years.) This reminded me of older books about boys coming of age, like It's Like This, Cat and Onion John; but I think the language is wholly modern and accessible. I thought it was so much better--tighter, I guess--than Trouble. Also, a question: looking at the other reviews, and thinking of rev Really charming. It was the same kind of nostalgic book as Penny From Heaven, but better-written, funnier, and more real-feeling. (This one has its obvious parallel in a really good episode of The Wonder Years.) This reminded me of older books about boys coming of age, like It's Like This, Cat and Onion John; but I think the language is wholly modern and accessible. I thought it was so much better--tighter, I guess--than Trouble. Also, a question: looking at the other reviews, and thinking of reviews of other books I've read recently--WHY do so many adults seem to think kids can't enjoy historical fiction unless A. they're already familiar with all cultural references in the book, or B. all cultural references and implications are spelled out in words of one syllable, or, failing that, in an author's note or glossary? Teachers, librarians, parents, is this something you've observed? It seems like an unqualified assumption to me. Even though I'm of a different generation from today's kids, I'm not really that old, and none of that ever bothered me. For one thing, I learned a ton of history from books I read for pleasure, and for another, if I didn't understand something I skimmed over it or occasionally asked my mother what it meant. No. big. deal. I don't like to be all \"Well, *I* grew up just fine\" about this, but it's still hard for me to imagine that kids now are THAT much different from when I was a kid--especially kids who like to read. I would think that there were some kids who hated historical fiction then and there are some who hate it now. Yes? No? ETA: Huh. I just remembered that I made sort of the opposite argument a few months ago, about Noel Streatfeild's books having too many cultural references that kids wouldn't get. Clearly there's some kind of line I want to draw; it has something to do with how easy the book is to understand with or without cultural references, and is related to the way some old books make good quasi-historical-fiction, and others are just dated. But I'd hold that it's irrelevant as regards actual historical fiction. If kids don't \"get it\", it's about the writing, not the topic. Some reviews here seem to be claiming that because kids don't know who RFK was, books shouldn't mention RFK. ...more This is a beautiful book, so I reviewed it for our librarian blog at work. Holling Hoodhood has many things on his mind. The U.S. is at war with Vietnam. His older sister has painted a flower on her face. His father is trying to run the town\u2019s other architect out of business. And Holling\u2019s teacher, Mrs. Baker, hates his guts. You see, every Wednesday after lunch, half of the kids in Holling\u2019s 7th grade class go to the Temple Beth-El for Hebrew School. The other half goes to St. Adelbert\u2019s for Cat This is a beautiful book, so I reviewed it for our librarian blog at work. Holling Hoodhood has many things on his mind. The U.S. is at war with Vietnam. His older sister has painted a flower on her face. His father is trying to run the town\u2019s other architect out of business. And Holling\u2019s teacher, Mrs. Baker, hates his guts. You see, every Wednesday after lunch, half of the kids in Holling\u2019s 7th grade class go to the Temple Beth-El for Hebrew School. The other half goes to St. Adelbert\u2019s for Catechism. Holling, the lone Presbyterian, is the only student keeping Mrs. Baker from an afternoon to herself. To avenge her privacy, Mrs. Baker decides to bore Holling to death by reading Shakespeare with him, but the joke\u2019s on her- Holling actually likes Shakespeare! It may help him secure the heart of Meryl Lee Kowalski, get Doug Swieteck\u2019s older brother off his back, and run faster with the cross country team. Or, it may help him right into a pair of yellow tights with feathers on the behind. But maybe, just maybe, it will help him tell his father how he feels. This laugh-out-loud novel from Gary Schmidt (author of Newbery Honor book Lizzie Bright and the Buckminster Boy) will reel in readers with Holling\u2019s wry yet innocent narration. Schmidt, a professor of English, grew up in Long Island just like Holling. He now resides near Grand Rapids, Michigan, where he taught me how to write, among other things, book reviews. ...more Without too much effort, you could probably come up with a dozen or so books of the Teacher-Who's-Totally-Mean-At-First-Develops-A-Mentoring-Relationship-With-The-Student-And-There-Are-Some-Life-Lessons-And-A-Bunch-Of-Growing-Up-Happens Genre, but dollars to doughnuts, none would be quite as good or as fun to read as Wednesday Wars. Toads, beetles, bats, I loved it--as the Bard might say. This one could probably work as young as fourth grade. This is one of the best of the best. I hope everyone reads it. I fell in love with the main character. And the teacher--oh--the teacher. She inspires me to go back into the ring!!! I loved the copious amounts of Shakespeare allusions. I laughed, I cried, I read it non-stop. Would love to discuss it with someone after you read it. Une vraie p\u00e9pite que je vous recommande mille fois \u2764 Une vraie p\u00e9pite que je vous recommande mille fois \u2764\ufe0f ...more When someone who tends to make good recommendations to you tells you several times that you will probably love something\u2013listen. I finally picked up <---A>Gary D. Schmidt</---A> and The Wednesday Wars on audio, and I adored it. From first sentence to last, this book was so full and rich and true in every way. I laughed in a way I haven\u2019t laughed listening to audio in well over a year, and I cried. I cried because it was too touching and real and perfect not to. Never before have I read a book that more exempl When someone who tends to make good recommendations to you tells you several times that you will probably love something\u2013listen. I finally picked up Gary D. Schmidt and The Wednesday Wars on audio, and I adored it. From first sentence to last, this book was so full and rich and true in every way. I laughed in a way I haven\u2019t laughed listening to audio in well over a year, and I cried. I cried because it was too touching and real and perfect not to. Never before have I read a book that more exemplified the home where I live now\u2013Long Island, New York, despite the reality that it shows a very different island than you see today. Being a (seemingly) lone protestant in a predominantly Catholic and Jewish population can be every bit as awkward as Holling would have you think. Luckily, I never had a 7th grade English teacher with a vendetta against me because of it. I loved the mentions of Eisenhower Park, Jones Beach, and other locals I\u2019m so familiar with. A historical tour of the area made me want to explore my local history more, and spend more time exploring outside of New York City (in fact, since finishing I have visited a nearby historical township just because). At it\u2019s heart, The Wednesday Wars is sort of a slightly-older, slightly more-recent, less Midwest version of A Christmas Story. And coming from me, there can\u2019t really be a higher compliment to a kid\u2019s story. Holling Hoodhood\u2019s experiences and emotions vacillate from elated to horrified in that same way, with these everyday occurrences becoming the most ridiculous and monumental, and I loved it. Gary D. Schmidt captures the atmosphere of the time so perfectly that as a listener I was transported to the 1960s, breath catching at news of Vietnam, Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr., and certainly sympathizing with Holling\u2019s sister who so clearly wanted more from life than what was being offered her. But as it is set in its time, The Wednesday Wars also transcends time in our ability to relate so personally. We have all, at least I dearly hope, had that one teacher who will change our lives forever. For Holling Hoodhood, it is Mrs. Baker. And I\u2019m pretty sure that Holling Hoodhood will be that one student that changes Mrs. Baker forever as well. Though their relationship begins tenuously, their warfull Wednesdays soon transform into something more\u2013into a kind of mentorship and love affair with William Shakespeare, and a challenge to be met gladly. This is the book that will make many kids want to pick up that famed playwright, and those of us who have long loved him to look back and smile. And just perhaps we\u2019ll all start calling one another \u201cpied ninny\u201ds instead of \u201cmother _____\u201ds. The Wednesday Wars is one of those unassuming little books that manages to pack so much real emotion and true human connection into its parts that I am left baffled. There is the experience of friendship and first love, of bullies and killing one\u2019s heroes, of triumph and defeat. Oh, and some pretty epic rats. Holling Hoodhood\u2019s family dynamics smacked so much of the time. His father may be one of the worst fathers I\u2019ve read about in terms of selfishness and neglect, despite the non-abusive nature of his existence. His sister was one of the most intriguing side characters I\u2019ve come across for some time\u2013I couldn\u2019t help but thinking I\u2019d love to read her story as well. I know it would be entirely different from Holling\u2019s, but that it wouldn\u2019t be any less full of emotion or meaning. There couldn\u2019t have been a more perfect narrator for The Wednesday Wars on audio than Joel Johnstone. I\u2019ve personally only listened to his narration once before (in Thirteen Reasons Why, where it was also stunning), but he\u2019s quickly becoming one of those narrators to seek out. In this case, I definitely feel as if the story was enhanced by its format, and really recommend this one on audio for those of you who enjoy listening. Original review posted at Bunbury in the Stacks . ...more Holling Hoodhood's seventh grade year looks like it's going to be a challenge. His teacher Mrs. Baker isn't his biggest fan and he's not even a troublemaker. But he is Presbyterian while all the other kids are Catholic or Jewish. On Wednesday afternoon, all of his classmates leave for classes at the church or the synagogue, leaving him alone with Mrs. Baker. Needless to say Mrs. Baker is not happy with this arrangement. What do you do with one student for the afternoon? The Wednesday Wars starts Holling Hoodhood's seventh grade year looks like it's going to be a challenge. His teacher Mrs. Baker isn't his biggest fan and he's not even a troublemaker. But he is Presbyterian while all the other kids are Catholic or Jewish. On Wednesday afternoon, all of his classmates leave for classes at the church or the synagogue, leaving him alone with Mrs. Baker. Needless to say Mrs. Baker is not happy with this arrangement. What do you do with one student for the afternoon? The Wednesday Wars starts as the story of of their Wednesday afternoon battles. Holling doesn't want to be there. Mrs. Baker doesn't want to be there. Everything changes when Mrs. Baker introduces Holling Shakespeare. She wants to teach Holling about life, he wants to learn Shakespearean curses. It's a win-win situation. Gary D. Schmidt writes about junior high in a way that feels so authentic. Holling Hoodhood is very much a middle school boy, talking about sports, girls, pranking the teachers, etc, but he's a heartfelt middle school boy. He cares about others and cares about the world around him even if he doesn't realize it himself. I read this series out of order, starting with the 2nd book Okay For Now but that doesn't actually matter. You can read them in whatever order you like. Both stories have main characters that are so believable, simple small town stories set in the past but that don't feel like a \"historical novel.\" Vietnam is in the background but this isn't a story about the Vietnam War. It's a story about a boy growing up and discovering himself. The timeline just happens to coincide with Vietnam. (Not to say this book ignores the war either, some of the best moments happen between a Vietnamese girl and a lunchlady.) This book is absolutely hilarious at times, then heartbreaking at others. It took me from laughter to tears more than once. This book is heart-felt, well written and funny. If you're an audiobook reader like me, it's also exceptionally well narrated. ...more This book managed to remind me a little, although it did not dissuade me from my general pessimism and dismay, why being a teacher is a wonderful, life changing job. Mrs. Baker is all that one dreams to see in teachers: the intelligence, the power, the endearing strength in the face of all difficult, messy, annoying children, the heartwarming attention only they can bestow when you have no idea they're watching, how much they get to know you, their influence and the mark that they leave. I haven This book managed to remind me a little, although it did not dissuade me from my general pessimism and dismay, why being a teacher is a wonderful, life changing job. Mrs. Baker is all that one dreams to see in teachers: the intelligence, the power, the endearing strength in the face of all difficult, messy, annoying children, the heartwarming attention only they can bestow when you have no idea they're watching, how much they get to know you, their influence and the mark that they leave. I haven't had many teachers like Mrs. Baker, but those that were have been like my second parents and ultimate friends. The Wednesday Wars shows us readers just how fascinating a teacher-pupil relationship can be, how it grows, blossoms and matters in the great scheme of things. Holling Hoodhood's journey, filled with Wednesdays afternoons of Shakespeare, running from deadly rats and race practice - all against the backdrop of the Vietnam War and a disarticulated and hurtful family life - becomes a tale of growing up and self-discovery. Maybe I'm a sucker for intertextual references and literary innuendos, what can I say... I loved the simplified Shakespeare (and how true nonetheless), the descriptions of the changing of seasons, the small moments of tenderness and the clear instances of deep insight, all filtered through a 7th grader's perspective. I don't think I will ever become a teacher (in spite of my university degree in humanities), but I will always think it's the best job in the world. In an ideal world that is. ...more All of the people who gave this book five stars can't be wrong, can they? Well, I've been in the minority before, so I guess I'll put myself there again because I really do not think my middle-school students will understand the humor in this book. It reads as an adult's nostalgic look back at his seventh-grade year during the Vietnam War. Although the situations that Holling, the main character, finds himself in are supposed to be funny, I didn't find them to be humorous because of the undercur All of the people who gave this book five stars can't be wrong, can they? Well, I've been in the minority before, so I guess I'll put myself there again because I really do not think my middle-school students will understand the humor in this book. It reads as an adult's nostalgic look back at his seventh-grade year during the Vietnam War. Although the situations that Holling, the main character, finds himself in are supposed to be funny, I didn't find them to be humorous because of the undercurrent of darkness that lies underneath it all. The darkness comes mostly from Holling's self-absorbed father who misses his kids' activities to watch TV, refuses to pick up a child who has run away for several days and across many states, and continually admonishes his kids to put the family architectural design business ahead of their own needs. Holling is a smart, lonely kid trying to make the best of a situation controlled by the mostly misguided adults in his life. To me, his story was sad -- not funny. I thought that Schmidt never really found the balance of humor and seriousness that he was striving for. Some adults may appreciate the book, but I think most kids will be confused. ...more When I finished, my first thought? \"Oh my goodness, that was delightful.\" Imagine Ray Bradbury's Dandelion Wine (in all it's poetical glory...I do love that book) meets The Sandlot (in all it's youthful hilarity...a classic). And that's The Wednesday Wars - and so much more. Schmidt describes the world as seen through the eyes of Holling Hoodhood, a seventh grade boy with a heart of gold. Mix in baseball (and of course the Yankees...we'll forgive Holling that since he is from Long Island), some When I finished, my first thought? \"Oh my goodness, that was delightful.\" Imagine Ray Bradbury's Dandelion Wine (in all it's poetical glory...I do love that book) meets The Sandlot (in all it's youthful hilarity...a classic). And that's The Wednesday Wars - and so much more. Schmidt describes the world as seen through the eyes of Holling Hoodhood, a seventh grade boy with a heart of gold. Mix in baseball (and of course the Yankees...we'll forgive Holling that since he is from Long Island), some Shakespeare (brilliant parallels here, from the plays' many insights as applied to Holling's own life), and a little bit of cross country running, and that about sums up the novel. Not to mention some rats, the Vietnam War, and the assassinations of Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King, Jr. Seems random...but it's not. Really, what is most amazing, besides Schmidt's prose, is the way he weaves it all together through the voice of a young man...and a quite charming and insightful young man at that. I think I fell in love with Holling. Seriously, what a delightful read. I highly recommend. ...more Nice book, with a good inner message. It was slow towards the start, and I thought that since it was a Primary School book, that there would not be a very deep plot and meaning. The first half of the book was quite slow for me, but when it came to the part when Holling started to like Mrs. Baker more, themes and bigger ideas started to come up all over the place. The ending was very satisfying, and fulfilled my high expectations. I think that the author did do a really good job on the ending on Nice book, with a good inner message. It was slow towards the start, and I thought that since it was a Primary School book, that there would not be a very deep plot and meaning. The first half of the book was quite slow for me, but when it came to the part when Holling started to like Mrs. Baker more, themes and bigger ideas started to come up all over the place. The ending was very satisfying, and fulfilled my high expectations. I think that the author did do a really good job on the ending on a good note, and closing out all of the different characters and their conflicts throughout the book. The bigger message that came out from this book to me was that when we embrace the bigger change, the best learning comes. Holling learned to embrace the change of Mrs. Baker towards the end, and learned not only knowledge about academics, but knowledge about life. A nice book, and a good one to analyze. ...more No stars for you book! And don't you dare question my authority! This book is so sweet, I'm practically choking on its sweetness, in a good way. What I liked: Everything What I loved: Holling and his friends Holling and his sister \"Did you find yourself?\" \"What?\" said my sister. \"Did you find yourself?\" \"She found me,\" I said. This stuff is gold, guys. Molten, pure gold. What I didn't like: How everything sweet happened to everyone except Holling. But conversely, I also found this to be the best part of the No stars for you book! And don't you dare question my authority! This book is so sweet, I'm practically choking on its sweetness, in a good way. What I liked: Everything What I loved: Holling and his friends Holling and his sister \"Did you find yourself?\" \"What?\" said my sister. \"Did you find yourself?\" \"She found me,\" I said. This stuff is gold, guys. Molten, pure gold. What I didn't like: How everything sweet happened to everyone except Holling. But conversely, I also found this to be the best part of the book. The kids and the teacher in this book are so awesome. I can't believe this is all just seventh grade. I wonder what I was doing back then. Oh that's right- I was standing in punishment in the hall, and playing human chess on the back and white tiles. Not much seems to have changed. What a loser I am....... ...more A great book! I wouldn't have disagreed if they had given it the Newbery medal instead of just an honor. I love the first-person narrative. Holling's sense of humor made the book a lot of fun to read. There were also some very touching parts. Mrs. Baker is the best teacher! She made me want to read more Shakespeare. Also, there are lots of great quotes about the nature of teachers. One of my favorites, right after Mrs. Baker has shown Holling her Olympic medal: \"'Don't look so surprised. You didn A great book! I wouldn't have disagreed if they had given it the Newbery medal instead of just an honor. I love the first-person narrative. Holling's sense of humor made the book a lot of fun to read. There were also some very touching parts. Mrs. Baker is the best teacher! She made me want to read more Shakespeare. Also, there are lots of great quotes about the nature of teachers. One of my favorites, right after Mrs. Baker has shown Holling her Olympic medal: \"'Don't look so surprised. You didn't think I'd spent my whole life behind this desk, did you?' And I suddenly realized that, well, I guess I had. Weren't all teachers born behind their desks, fully grown, with a red pen in their hand and ready to grade?\" Made me laugh! ...more<---C>Gary D. Schmidt</---C>", "Title": "The Wednesday Wars"},
