{"Comments": "I won The Last Letter From Your Lover in a GoodReads First Reads giveaway. This novel depicts a young woman's struggle with her marriage during the 1960s when divorce was taboo and society rules dictated that women be seen and not heard. This novel also depicts a young woman in the present day who struggles with her relationship with a married man and her job at a newspaper, which she is at risk of losing. I got a little lost in this novel,<---M> not because it was confusing</---M>, but because the voice chang I won The Last Letter From Your Lover in a GoodReads First Reads giveaway. This novel depicts a young woman's struggle with her marriage during the 1960s when divorce was taboo and society rules dictated that women be seen and not heard. This novel also depicts a young woman in the present day who struggles with her relationship with a married man and her job at a newspaper, which she is at risk of losing. I got a little lost in this novel, not because it was confusing, but because the voice changed throughout. I really enjoyed the story of Jennifer Stirling, and I think that particular storyline could have been a good book all on its own. But the author threw in Ellie's story along with it, which was not quite as strong. The story was a little flimsy and we spent less time with the character development in Ellie's portion of the book, so it was much harder for me to empathize with her. The voice of the book changed dramatically when we got to Ellie's story. It felt like two different writers wrote the stories and tried to find a way to tie them together. I would have done something a little different with this novel if I were editing it. The storyline of Ellie is brought in much too late in the story. Once I finished reading the first couple sections about Jennifer Stirling, I was so engaged in her story that it was jarring to launch me into a completely different and NEW story. The writer could have done one of two things here: Either forget about Ellie and just tell the story of Jennifer Stirling, OR begin the book with Ellie and pepper the flashbacks to the 1960s throughout so that the reader and Ellie discover Jennifer's story together. This would make the stories much more integrated. I think there's a lot of good stuff here, but the book needs some work to achieve its full potential. <+++>The Last Letter from Your Lover</+++> ...more This is a 'cold case' with 'love story' interspersed through it. Jennifer wakes up in a hospital suffering from total amnesia.<---F> That's in 1960</---F>. But someone, years later, will take up the cold trail of Jennifer's fate, and follow it faithfully until she knows what has happened to Jennifer. I thought that Jennifer would have to be devious to cheat on her husband. But then, autres temps, autres moeurs. The author manages to make me sympathize with Jennifer. What is great is that never is it told outr This is a 'cold case' with 'love story' interspersed through it. Jennifer wakes up in a hospital suffering from total amnesia. That's in 1960. But someone, years later, will take up the cold trail of Jennifer's fate, and follow it faithfully until she knows what has happened to Jennifer. I thought that Jennifer would have to be devious to cheat on her husband. But then, autres temps, autres moeurs. The author manages to make me sympathize with Jennifer. What is great is that never is it told outright that Jennifer and her lover are soulmates. But Jennifer's husband is a male chauvinistic pig, who doesn't even care to strike a friendship with his wife. But Anthony O'Hare, Jennifer's lover, is a very sensitive guy. You root for him. By doing so, you're championing the women's movement that sparked in the 60's. By doing so, you're reaching to another decade where things were different, where you maybe weren't even born yet, but you empathize with your brethren. I'm not a gal, yet the book made me understand Jennifer's plight. Maybe that's why I like the book so much. ...more 4.5 stars <---A>Jojo Moyes</---A> knows how to tell a compelling story! This was a very romantic double love story that centered around secret hand written love letters. The first two-thirds of the book was Jennifer Stirling's story taking place in the early 1960's. I'm not sure why I always think I'm not going to like a historical romance, because so far I have loved the ones I've read. This was my favorite part of the book. I felt that Ms. Moyes did a beautiful job of painting a picture of this period of t 4.5 stars Jojo Moyes knows how to tell a compelling story! This was a very romantic double love story that centered around secret hand written love letters. The first two-thirds of the book was Jennifer Stirling's story taking place in the early 1960's. I'm not sure why I always think I'm not going to like a historical romance, because so far I have loved the ones I've read. This was my favorite part of the book. I felt that Ms. Moyes did a beautiful job of painting a picture of this period of time, it was like watching an old movie. There were several plot twists I didn't see coming, so it definitely kept me turning the pages. The last third of the book moves forward in time to 2003, where <---C>Ellie Haworth</---C> finds some of these love letters, and they inspire her to make decisions about her own story. I ended up liking the format of the book when I reached the end, if anyone is going to be a sucker for an epic love story it'll be me. When I was reading though, it was a little frustrating to have the time jump. It was kind of like having a cliffhanger within a book. I was very engaged with Jennifer's story, desperate to know what happened with her, so the time jump tested my patience. It's funny though, out of the three books I've read by this amazing author, this book had my favorite ending. My favorite book by Jojo Moyes is , closely followed by . Her books for me always make an impression and become those rare books that stay with you, I can't recommend them highly enough. ...more O Me Before You j\u00e1 me tinha agarrado pela noite dentro e este foi pelo dia fora porque n\u00e3o o conseguia largar por nada! Lembro-me que o comprei numa promo\u00e7\u00e3o leve 2 pague 1 sem saber nada sobre ele a n\u00e3o ser que era de Jojo Moyes e dois anos depois fui surpreendida. Ellie, uma jornalista que est\u00e1 envolvida com um homem casado, acaba por encontrar no arquivo do jornal onde trabalha uma carta de amor de h\u00e1 v\u00e1rios anos atr\u00e1s... E desta forma voltamos atr\u00e1s no tempo, para o ano de 1960, onde conhecem O Me Before You j\u00e1 me tinha agarrado pela noite dentro e este foi pelo dia fora porque n\u00e3o o conseguia largar por nada! Lembro-me que o comprei numa promo\u00e7\u00e3o leve 2 pague 1 sem saber nada sobre ele a n\u00e3o ser que era de Jojo Moyes e dois anos depois fui surpreendida. Ellie, uma jornalista que est\u00e1 envolvida com um homem casado, acaba por encontrar no arquivo do jornal onde trabalha uma carta de amor de h\u00e1 v\u00e1rios anos atr\u00e1s... E desta forma voltamos atr\u00e1s no tempo, para o ano de 1960, onde conhecemos Jennifer, uma mulher que acorda de um acidente e n\u00e3o se lembra da sua vida antes disso. Vai percebendo que \u00e9 casada e o marido e os amigos tentam dizer-lhe o que deve fazer e o que antes fazia mas quanto mais o tempo passa mais ela tem a certeza que est\u00e1 a faltar uma pe\u00e7a muito importante desta hist\u00f3ria. De alguma forma o passado vai unir-se ao presente e achei fascinante! O \u00fanico problema que tive foi habituar-me ao foco estar sempre a mudar de personagem sem uma esp\u00e9cie de aviso pr\u00e9vio, mas ao fim de algum tempo j\u00e1 n\u00e3o me incomodava. Da\u00ed s\u00f3 dar 4,5 estrelas. Outra coisa \u00e9 que houve alguns clich\u00e9s e coisas que esperava que acontecessem mas n\u00e3o senti isso como algo mau neste livro, penso que fez parte e at\u00e9 gostei. A escrita da autora \u00e9 extremamente envolvente e adequada aos tempos em que se passam as hist\u00f3rias e as personagens s\u00e3o complexas, n\u00e3o h\u00e1 os maus e os bons da hist\u00f3ria. H\u00e1 os humanos que erram e tentam ou n\u00e3o remediar as coisas. H\u00e1 encontros e desencontros, amores e desamores. H\u00e1 trai\u00e7\u00e3o, alcoolismo, guerra, jornalismo, casamentos, amizades e surpresas! E bem, por aqui houve l\u00e1grimas e sorrisos e mais l\u00e1grimas\u2026 E estava a esquecer-me de algo bastante importante. Cada cap\u00edtulo come\u00e7a com uma \u00faltima carta, email ou outra forma de correspond\u00eancia reais. A maioria s\u00e3o an\u00f3nimas, mas h\u00e1 umas quantas que n\u00e3o o s\u00e3o tanto assim. Adorei esse cuidado! Estava mesmo a precisar de um romance assim e quero ler tudo da autora. ...more 3 stars I had a really hard time getting into this. The multiple povs, the story was all over the place in part 1 and was too confusing for me. Also I didnt like present day heroine, Ellie and felt like the author could have left her story out. It was a forbidden romance with a lot of missed opportunities and I started to get into the story more by part 2 but by part 3 I felt exhausted. There was some good plot twist but by the end it didnt leave me satisfied. Im glad I picked it up though as 3 stars I had a really hard time getting into this. The multiple povs, the story was all over the place in part 1 and was too confusing for me. Also I didnt like present day heroine, Ellie and felt like the author could have left her story out. It was a forbidden romance with a lot of missed opportunities and I started to get into the story more by part 2 but by part 3 I felt exhausted. There was some good plot twist but by the end it didnt leave me satisfied. Im glad I picked it up though as I adore this author. ...more I'm expecting that I am one of very few readers who did not absolutely love this book. As far as I can tell, I am the only male who has read it, which may explain my minority view. For the first half, I kept fighting not to abandon it entirely. But as it turns out, this is really two novels: a fairly pedestrian one about a love affair in 1960 and a more engaging sequel forty years later. I wonder if the 400-page book could have simply started in the middle and been a lot better. Why did the first I'm expecting that I am one of very few readers who did not absolutely love this book. As far as I can tell, I am the only male who has read it, which may explain my minority view. For the first half, I kept fighting not to abandon it entirely. But as it turns out, this is really two novels: a fairly pedestrian one about a love affair in 1960 and a more engaging sequel forty years later. I wonder if the 400-page book could have simply started in the middle and been a lot better. Why did the first half put me off? The characters struck me as fairly cliche and flat, and I could not figure out why either of the lovers engendered passion in the other. The romantic attachment simply never struck me as credible. On the one hand you have Jennifer, a privileged, stunning, and utterly self-possessed young woman. (I kept envisioning her as Grace Kelly or the character January Jones portrayed in \"Mad Men.\") On the other, you have Anthony, a passionate, adventure-seeking international journalist. She never even reads a newspaper, and he has a total lack of familiarity with the upper reaches of society which Jennifer inhabits. I just don't get it. The characters do not improve that much in the second half, though Jennifer seems to have acquired some wisdom and an internal dignity rather than just elegantly refined social graces. But the story, which had for me limped painfully through the two hundred pages, begins to zip along. The plot becomes inventive, has believable surprises, and actually finally includes some moments which moved me. I'm still not convinced that the time it takes to read this book is well-spent, but at least there is some fulfillment for the reader if you stick to it through the end. ...more Add me to the legions of fans of JoJo Moyes. I\u2019m not exactly certain how to classify her books but women\u2019s contemporary fiction suits as well as anything. The two I\u2019ve read were love stories at their core. Some would call them romance, not me. Romantic perhaps. It is 1960. Jennifer Stirling is hospitalized, suffering from memory loss due to a severe car accident. This alone caught my attention as what the brain will forget when stressed interests me. When released she goes home to her husband and Add me to the legions of fans of JoJo Moyes. I\u2019m not exactly certain how to classify her books but women\u2019s contemporary fiction suits as well as anything. The two I\u2019ve read were love stories at their core. Some would call them romance, not me. Romantic perhaps. It is 1960. Jennifer Stirling is hospitalized, suffering from memory loss due to a severe car accident. This alone caught my attention as what the brain will forget when stressed interests me. When released she goes home to her husband and we can feel her confusion and awkwardness as she tries to regain consciousness of who she is or was for that matter. Something seems off. Then she finds a letter with an impassioned plea for her to chuck her life and meet said composer at the train station. It is signed B. Who is this man and why would Jennifer consider giving up her privileged life to follow him? The reader will find out all in a story told in dual time frames over a span of 40+ years. Essentially a thriller reader in need of a feelgood story now and then I am often left cold by forced sentimentality or down right sappiness. The Last Letter From Your Lover evoked feelings of sadness, both hopefulness and hopelessness, nostalgia and a yearning hunger for a love letter of my own. Aptly titled, I loved it. ...more I cannot believe how much I disliked this book. I tried to like it -- I really tried -- but honestly, it's got to be the least satisfying book I've read this year. The first section occurs in 1960, and it's dreadful. The plot is thin and predictable, the characters melodramatic, one-dimensional and stereotypical. The writing is terrible; not only is it over-the-top, but several times I had to re-read sentences to try to figure out what the author was trying to say (never a good sign). Even the se I cannot believe how much I disliked this book. I tried to like it -- I really tried -- but honestly, it's got to be the least satisfying book I've read this year. The first section occurs in 1960, and it's dreadful. The plot is thin and predictable, the characters melodramatic, one-dimensional and stereotypical. The writing is terrible; not only is it over-the-top, but several times I had to re-read sentences to try to figure out what the author was trying to say (never a good sign). Even the sex scenes are dull! The latter part takes place in 2003 and it's somewhat better. The writing is less stilted and the characters better fleshed out. The plot is still predictable, though, and it simply isn't good enough to redeem the flaws of the first section. Yes, it's romantic, in an old-fashioned, black-and-white-B-movie kind of way, where overly sentimental dialogue was the norm and silly young women wept copious tears at the plight of star-crossed lovers. I think, though, that there are much better romances out there that cover the same territory. ...more This book deserves a better title. Wonderful writing and an intriguing storyline (with a kick-ass twist at the end!). [2.5 Stars] I first thought, what a great love story Moyes has written, just beautifully done. So a 3 star from me...good story, well developed characters, kept my interest. Meaning and depth? Maybe not. But the more I thought about this the higher the rating went. I was so used to her taking on a timely topic....assisted suicide in \"Me Before You:, the theft of art etc by the Nazi's in \"The Girl You Left Behind\" and I thought, eh, just a light love story. But the more I thought of this book the more I real I first thought, what a great love story Moyes has written, just beautifully done. So a 3 star from me...good story, well developed characters, kept my interest. Meaning and depth? Maybe not. But the more I thought about this the higher the rating went. I was so used to her taking on a timely topic....assisted suicide in \"Me Before You:, the theft of art etc by the Nazi's in \"The Girl You Left Behind\" and I thought, eh, just a light love story. But the more I thought of this book the more I realized she was making a statement....how sad it is that we communicate so much in the \"social/techno field\"?Do we even talk or communicate our true thoughts and feelings any more? When did you last receive a letter in the mail....one that had meaning? Was it perhaps when you were younger? Was it maybe the \"last letter from your lover?\" What are we missing today? I thought she captured the 50's and 60's wonderfully, women had their place, and she switched to the present just as well....the age of a dashed off email, quick text.....what does it mean? what are they saying? Given the choice I would rather curl up in a chair and savor the handwritten letter, reading it again and again. What do we really communicate in todays day and age? Moyes creates some similarities between Jennifer and Ellie, both loving men that are forbidden...and that bond makes the transition between both stories, past and present work. I have to say, I did not much care for Ellie as I wanted to slap her and tell her to open her eyes! And even though Jennifer was traveling outside the acceptable for her time, I likedher< I was rooting for her and hoping she would get all the happiness she deserved. For the fact that this \"love\" story left me thinking about so much more, I move the rating to 4 stars. ...more Must remember to not go by goodreads ratings alone. This staggeringly high rating average indicates that the people who picked this up realized it was a sappy romance novel and were actually pleased by that idea. My one star indicates that I am not the intended audience, and I do not appreciate the pretty, trapped wife for whom infidelity is actually a noble act, nor the conveniently awful husband whom she would be right to cheat, or that rich people are predictably the boring and evil people an Must remember to not go by goodreads ratings alone. This staggeringly high rating average indicates that the people who picked this up realized it was a sappy romance novel and were actually pleased by that idea. My one star indicates that I am not the intended audience, and I do not appreciate the pretty, trapped wife for whom infidelity is actually a noble act, nor the conveniently awful husband whom she would be right to cheat, or that rich people are predictably the boring and evil people and that the poor guy is OBVIOUSLY the better bet and that beauty is as strong an indicator of heroism as, say, actions (actually it is a better one), and that lust is the same as love if not more powerful and timeless. Yeah. ...more When I started reading this book, I immediately got mildly irritated with all the chick-lit clich\u00e9s that the first chapter had, and I thought to myself that this was going to be another one of those chick-lit books that are very relaxing to read, but that I've slowly gotten tired of over the years. Then I turned the page, the second chapter started and I was immediately grabbed by the turn in both the story and its vibe. This was a completely different story, and as I kept on reading, I got more When I started reading this book, I immediately got mildly irritated with all the chick-lit clich\u00e9s that the first chapter had, and I thought to myself that this was going to be another one of those chick-lit books that are very relaxing to read, but that I've slowly gotten tired of over the years. Then I turned the page, the second chapter started and I was immediately grabbed by the turn in both the story and its vibe. This was a completely different story, and as I kept on reading, I got more and more emotionally captivated and had a hard time putting down the book. And that's how this reading experience continued for me. Especially the last 100 pages were amazing, and they made me laugh, smile and tear up a little bit all at the same time. I still can't believe how much this book surprised me and how much I was fooled by the beginning. This is nothing similar to your typical chick-lit novel. This is a heartwrenching story, and I imply you to read on if you've already started the book but aren't sure about its content, because this story comes with beautiful and breathtaking emotions as well as stunning surprises! ...more The title of this book would normally render it one that I would not read. It was a freebie and I picked it up because my library book had not become available yet. And surprisingly, I'm glad I did. The theme caught my attention because it is similar to that in The Things We Never Said by Susan Elliot Wright . Both have two stories based forty years apart whose connection is revealed only in the very last pages of the novel. 1964 and Jennifer Stirling wakes in a hospital after a shocking car acci The title of this book would normally render it one that I would not read. It was a freebie and I picked it up because my library book had not become available yet. And surprisingly, I'm glad I did. The theme caught my attention because it is similar to that in The Things We Never Said by Susan Elliot Wright . Both have two stories based forty years apart whose connection is revealed only in the very last pages of the novel. 1964 and Jennifer Stirling wakes in a hospital after a shocking car accident. She can't remember the accident, details of her life, her name or her husband Larry, a business magnate; rich, successful but, she discovers, emotionally cold. As she searches for evidence about herself, she stumbles upon a letter; a fervent letter from an unknown 'B'. Although she can't recall the relationship, it was obviously passionate, intense and something for which she would jeopardise her life as she knew it. Jennifer is what we would now call probably a trophy wife. She's young, she's beautiful and she's accomplished only, it seems, at the social lifestyle of the extremely rich. Anthony is a world wearied British journalist. He's been to all the political hot spots and just returned from the uprising in the Congo, he is burned out. His personal life bears scars from his perilous work; he has put his health at risk, is divorced and his contact with his only child is obstructed by his ex-wife. In 2003 we meet Ellie Haworth; such a modern woman, she's single, in a job she loves and having an affair with a married man. And having just had a landmark birthday, she's decided she's fed up with being a mistress. A features writer with a prominent British newspaper, Ellie's career is flailing as she spends most of her time preoccupied with her lover and their relationship. She is commissioned by her eagle eyed boss Melissa, who seems to have Ellie in her guns, to write a feature based partly in the 1960s. In the newspaper's library archives, she stumbles across a letter in a file, seemingly unconnected to her task at hand. The letter is impassioned, intense and signed only 'B'. Ellie embarks on a quest for this mysterious 'B' and the unknown recipient of the letter. As small clues become evident, the quest becomes an obsession. Who was 'B' and who was the letter for? What happened to them? The fate of lovers of forty years ago speak across the decades in Ellie's mind and run a parallel to her own esoteric relationship. ...more Una historia sin duda cautivadora!!! Es lo primero que leo de esta escritora y me ha conquistado en may\u00fasculas. Un relato exquisito. Una pluma suave y delicada. Y dos historias de amor a cu\u00e1l m\u00e1s dura y tierna a la vez. Sin embargo, no he podido darle las cinco estrellas, porque en cada cap\u00edtulo me perd\u00eda y no sab\u00eda si estaba en el antes o en el antes del accidente. Pero s\u00ed quiero remarcar que las cartas de amor son... y m\u00e1s despu\u00e9s de haber le\u00eddo el final de la novela: cuando sabes que realment Una historia sin duda cautivadora!!! Es lo primero que leo de esta escritora y me ha conquistado en may\u00fasculas. Un relato exquisito. Una pluma suave y delicada. Y dos historias de amor a cu\u00e1l m\u00e1s dura y tierna a la vez. Sin embargo, no he podido darle las cinco estrellas, porque en cada cap\u00edtulo me perd\u00eda y no sab\u00eda si estaba en el antes o en el antes del accidente. Pero s\u00ed quiero remarcar que las cartas de amor son... y m\u00e1s despu\u00e9s de haber le\u00eddo el final de la novela: cuando sabes que realmente alguien escribi\u00f3 esas cartas. Mil gracias Lidia por recomendarme este libro!!! ...more A giveaway for this book and ME BEFORE YOU (US only) is on my blog through February 17, 2014, 11:59 pm CST - thank you to the publisher for providing the books. http://www.whorublog.com/?p=2847 Jojo Moyes once again proves that neither time nor distance can put out the flames of true love, love that doesn't just connect bodies, but souls. Take Jennifer Stirling and Anthony \"Boot\" O'Hare. Anthony, a reporter for \"The Nation,\" joined Jennifer and her wealthy husband Laurence at their home on the Fr A giveaway for this book and ME BEFORE YOU (US only) is on my blog through February 17, 2014, 11:59 pm CST - thank you to the publisher for providing the books. http://www.whorublog.com/?p=2847 Jojo Moyes once again proves that neither time nor distance can put out the flames of true love, love that doesn't just connect bodies, but souls. Take Jennifer Stirling and Anthony \"Boot\" O'Hare. Anthony, a reporter for \"The Nation,\" joined Jennifer and her wealthy husband Laurence at their home on the French Rivera. From their rocky beginnings in 1960, a friendship and love is forged between Anthony and Jennifer, one that can't be destroyed in twisted metal and broken dreams. There are no true winners or losers in this novel, just lives lived, lives lost and lots of navigation through life's trials and tribulations along the way. One of Jojo's established strengths in her writing is connecting the past with the present, intertwining lives with similar situations and objects. In THE LAST LETTER FROM YOUR LOVER, the object, of course, is a letter that ties the generations: Jennifer and Anthony in 1960 to Ellie and Rory in 2003. The parallels are so fascinating and at the same time heartbreaking. But Jojo has this way of taking heartbreak and smoothing the rough edges so that the reader is left satisfied and hopeful. This is a remarkable talent, one that makes Jojo a storytelling star. Jojo Moyes is one of those writers that has created a body of work that collectively is masterful and insightful into the human spirit. I would normally say that every novel must stand on its own merit. That's absolutely true. Yet, in Jojo's case, she has established herself as an author who has immortalized characters who will stand the test of time. Having read ME BEFORE YOU, HONEYMOON IN PARIS, THE GIRL YOU LEFT BEHIND and now THE LAST LETTER FROM YOUR LOVER, I see the connections between themes she explores in her novels, and even the characters. To me, that is a tremendous gift and the reason why I recommend reading everything Jojo writes. Obviously, readers may relate better to certain characters, but there is no doubt that if you read for more than the pleasure of entertainment, there is a lot to be gained from the insights Jojo illuminates in her stories. She opens the readers' eyes to the serendipities of past and present, the lessons to be learned from the past and how they can alter the present and the future. At the same time, her novels remind us that we're fragile beings, and even though we have only one life to live, what we do, what we create can be a major part of the future. To leave a mark. Jojo Moyes most definitely leaves a mark, one that will be read and seen for generations to come! ...more This was one of those books that sounds like an incredible story, but the execution of that story is lacking. Spoilers follow, since there is no way to discuss it otherwise. It was a confusing story that could have been great, but, alas, it was presented poorly. The first half of the book is set in either 1960 or 1964. It alternates back and forth between the two time frames. Adding to the confusion is that every time it would switch between the years, the chapter would often start out featuring This was one of those books that sounds like an incredible story, but the execution of that story is lacking. Spoilers follow, since there is no way to discuss it otherwise. It was a confusing story that could have been great, but, alas, it was presented poorly. The first half of the book is set in either 1960 or 1964. It alternates back and forth between the two time frames. Adding to the confusion is that every time it would switch between the years, the chapter would often start out featuring a different character you hadn't met before (like the secretary, or the lover the first time, or the lover's boss). I was constantly having to go back and forth in the pages to figure out what was happening, which is not so easy to do on the kindle as it is in a hard copy. As if this wasn't confusing enough, the second half of the book is told in 2003, featuring another person we hadn't met before. I actually like the idea of someone finding 40 year old love letters and trying to solve the mystery of who they were to/from, and what happened to them. But I really, REALLY wish the author would have opened the book with this mystery, and just simply flashed back to the 60s from there. Frankly, too much time of the book is spent on the 60s couple, and not enough on our modern story. Instead, we have a mystery within a mystery, as our heroine has amnesia for every other story for the first half of the book, and then the modern-day heroine trying to solve a second mystery 40 years later involving our first mystery lead characters. And yes, reading the book was just as confusing as it sounds in my review. Good luck if you try and read this. ...more What a disappointment. This book was boring and filled with one-dimensional characters. I'm shocked that this is by the same author who wrote \"Me Before You\" which is one of my favorite books of all time. Oh my goodness! Big sigh! A delicious read! Started this book yesterday & couldn't put it down until I finished today. Tragic & so sad, and yet hopeful... One of my favourite parts was in a letter where Anthony writes, \"...to have someone out there who understands you, who desires you, who sees you as a better version of yourself, is the most astonishing gift. Even if we are not together, to know that, for you, I am that man is a source of sustenance for me. I'm not sure how I earned the ri Oh my goodness! Big sigh! A delicious read! Started this book yesterday & couldn't put it down until I finished today. Tragic & so sad, and yet hopeful... One of my favourite parts was in a letter where Anthony writes, \"...to have someone out there who understands you, who desires you, who sees you as a better version of yourself, is the most astonishing gift. Even if we are not together, to know that, for you, I am that man is a source of sustenance for me. I'm not sure how I earned the right. I don't feel entirely confident of it even now. But even the chance to think upon your beautiful face, your smile, and know that some part of it might belong to me is probably the single greatest thing that has happened in my life.\" Or another great part of a letter, \"...know this at least: that somewhere in this world is a man who loves you, who understands how precious and kind and clever you are. A man who has always loved you and, suspects he always will.\" Isn't that what we're all looking for, to be loved fully, unconditionally, & passionately? ...more Where I got the book: my local library. A book club read. WARNING: A BIT SPOILERISH. This novel kept me on my toes, and therefore interested. It started out with a fairly familiar trope, where the main character is recovering from an accident and can\u2019t remember her life before, but as time goes on she realizes that people are keeping something from her. And then she begins to find letters hidden around her house, and realizes she had a lover\u2014now who WAS that guy anyway? So we began with a little m Where I got the book: my local library. A book club read. WARNING: A BIT SPOILERISH. This novel kept me on my toes, and therefore interested. It started out with a fairly familiar trope, where the main character is recovering from an accident and can\u2019t remember her life before, but as time goes on she realizes that people are keeping something from her. And then she begins to find letters hidden around her house, and realizes she had a lover\u2014now who WAS that guy anyway? So we began with a little mystery, and I kind of assumed that the story would center around Jennifer\u2019s attempts to find out about her past. And then things got a little more interesting as we learned Jennifer\u2019s husband was making his fortune by mining that new wonder material, asbestos. Oh-oh. Nothing like a little historical hindsight to make the informed reader prick up her ears (although, I wonder, what of the generation that never had to worry about asbestos removal?) So OK, this novel was going to have a certain historical dimension, and being set in the early 60s it had that whole Mad Men double standard going\u2014wives were expected to be decorative, good at housekeeping, eager to produce children and, above all, faithful, while men\u2014well, if a man was playing the field, it was his wife\u2019s fault for not keeping him interested. And everyone got to consume as much booze, smoke as many ciggies and pop as many pills as they liked, because there was nothing wrong with needing a little something to keep you going. But then, before I was expected it to happen, we got into Jennifer\u2019s Great Love Story, which was beautiful and tragic and poignant and all that. Only I began to feel like the author was making excuses for Jennifer\u2014yes, her husband was a bore and a boor, but he hadn\u2019t technically done anything wrong and her Great Love began to seem like the indulgence of a spoiled brat rather than a realistic relationship. And then all of a sudden we jumped into the new millenium and INTO PRESENT TENSE and I was annoyed, because I was happy in Mad Men Land and wanted to hear more about the asbestos. You don\u2019t get to mention asbestos without the reader expecting something nasty to happen. But there\u2019s no asbestos in 2003, and who was this Ellie woman, mooning after the Man Who Very Obviously Will Not Leave His Wife instead of getting on and doing her job? I began to worry if this was going to be a novel about women whose entire object in life was to have affairs. And then the story made a couple of abrupt right turns and came up with one major twist I really hadn\u2019t anticipated, and a couple of minor ones, and by that point I was ready to give it five stars. I would knock off half a point for some poor grammar and expressions that didn\u2019t belong to the Sixties if half points were allowed, but overall my final impression of this novel was of an entirely enjoyable read from the lighter end of the literary fiction pool. This is the kind of novel that goes down pretty quickly, so it\u2019s not a bad choice to take to the beach or on a plane ride. Although, now the glow of the last seventy or so pages has faded, I wish Moyes had made more of the asbestos thing, but that would have been a different type of novel. And I wish I\u2019d been able to fall in love with the characters a bit more, but seriously it now seems to take about 2,000 pages for me to fall hard for a character, so YMMV if you\u2019re less of a cynical old bat than I am. Anyway, five stars for being enjoyable and making me want to read it instead of doing something productive. ...more 4.5 stars Brilliant, evocative, and tragic (but not without redemption), <+++>The Last Letter from Your Lover</+++> is as good as Moyes' Me Before You . I started sobbing 90 percent in and haven't yet stopped. I'm a bloody mess; rarely does a book offer such catharsis. The book begins in 1960s London. Two people meet: The aloof, beautiful, polished Jennifer is married to Laurence, a successful, detached, casually cruel businessman who manages various mines in Africa. Anthony is a journalist, divorced, a heav 4.5 stars Brilliant, evocative, and tragic (but not without redemption), The Last Letter from Your Lover is as good as Moyes' Me Before You . I started sobbing 90 percent in and haven't yet stopped. I'm a bloody mess; rarely does a book offer such catharsis. The book begins in 1960s London. Two people meet: The aloof, beautiful, polished Jennifer is married to Laurence, a successful, detached, casually cruel businessman who manages various mines in Africa. Anthony is a journalist, divorced, a heavy drinker, a mournful, impetuous man. He's not Jenny's type, much too volatile, not settled or grounded, and certainly without riches and social status. But Jennifer and Anthony feel a connection nonetheless, even though theirs is a love not meant to be...not then, not without missed opportunities and the drudgery of pain and loss. Fast-forward 40-some years to London, 2003. Thirty-two-year-old Ellie is forging a love affair of her own. Her lover, John, is married with two young children and in no hurry to leave his wife. But Ellie has hope. Wrapped up in John, forgetting her own life, including her career as a journalist, Ellie doesn't see what's right in front of her, until she stumbles on a letter, the letter of the title: a handwritten love letter spanning decades. Obsessed with what she reads and what it means, Ellie seeks to find out more about a story that's perversely right in front of her. Is there a happy ending here? That depends. Happiness isn't always what we imagine it to be. Sometimes it's about ourselves, our own convictions, doing what's right by our child, finding our own path, writing our own story, righting wrongs we had no way of preventing. Sometimes it's about a lonely man in a library, a guy who takes you ice-skating and makes you laugh, a post office box...open for 40 years. Sometimes it's about saying sorry, and words in a letter, gathering dust. ...more I do not generally read romances but Jojo Moyes manages to write her romance with a bit more substance than most including a catchy story and reasonably realistic characters. This book also has the advantage of being set back a little in the past and the descriptions of relationships and attitudes of the sixties were very true. It was certainly a page turner for me and I especially liked the happy ending. No problem giving it four stars! This is another of Jojo Moyes wonderful stories, this one centering on Jennifer Stirling who wakes up in a hospital in 1960 not knowing who she is or where she is. Having been in a horrible car accident, she has no knowledge of what got her there. Coming home, she discovers that she lives a life of privilege and is living a life with a husband who is cold and unloving. Searching around the house in hopes of discovering who she is, she discovers letters secreted in hiding places, love letters wri This is another of Jojo Moyes wonderful stories, this one centering on Jennifer Stirling who wakes up in a hospital in 1960 not knowing who she is or where she is. Having been in a horrible car accident, she has no knowledge of what got her there. Coming home, she discovers that she lives a life of privilege and is living a life with a husband who is cold and unloving. Searching around the house in hopes of discovering who she is, she discovers letters secreted in hiding places, love letters written so lovingly, from \"B.\" But who is \"B?\" The story then goes to Ellie Haworth, in 2003, a journalist who is in a dead-end relationship with a married man. Her life is centered around him, while her work is suffering. Ellie discovers a love letter in a dusty pile of papers from the newspaper library, with such heartbreaking writing that she determines to find the lovers behind the love letter. The letters are from \"B.\" This story has you in turns happy, sad, wondering and is a page turner requiring kleenex for the ending. Read on, I promise that you will love it!! ...more 3.5 stars The Last Letter from Your Lover is a romance complicated by family obligations and missed opportunities. In London in the 1960s, Jennifer is recovering from a serious auto accident and has severe memory loss. She does not remember her wealthy husband who treats her like a possession. She finds some hidden passionate letters, signed only with a B, and tries to piece together her secret life. Who was B? Forty years later, a journalist Ellie comes upon several of B's romantic letters stored 3.5 stars The Last Letter from Your Lover is a romance complicated by family obligations and missed opportunities. In London in the 1960s, Jennifer is recovering from a serious auto accident and has severe memory loss. She does not remember her wealthy husband who treats her like a possession. She finds some hidden passionate letters, signed only with a B, and tries to piece together her secret life. Who was B? Forty years later, a journalist Ellie comes upon several of B's romantic letters stored in the newspaper archives. Involved in a relationship with a married man herself, she sees a spark in the letters that is not present in her own life. Ellie investigates what happened to Jennifer and her lover, and also has to make some difficult personal decisions. In addition to passion, the story also showed the problems that an affair can bring--a devastated spouse and hurt children. Historically, the book also illustrated the difference in communication from the wonderful 1963 love letters to the quick 2003 text messages. I've read two other books by Jojo Moyes, and found she was an engaging storyteller again. She has the ability to express emotions so well that I genuinely care what happens to the characters. ...more Cautivada por Jojo Moyes. Qu\u00e9 historia... preciosa, conmovedora, complicada, intensa... me ha encantado. Y eso que al principio el estilo narrativo me result\u00f3 un poco enrevesado, m\u00e1s complejo que sus otras novelas, pero enseguida me enganch\u00e9 a la historia y la he disfrutado much\u00edsimo. La recomiendo totalmente. 4 Stars I think I can tell that Jojo Moyes became one of my favorite authors. I\u2019ve read four books by her and I loved them all. I read The Last Letter from Your Lover back in May, when I had a break from reviewing. I had a pile of books, and I ended up writing mini-reviews for most of them. Not in this case. This book deserves a full review. The Last Letter from Your Lover has similar structure to another Jojo Moyes\u2019s book The Girl You Left Behind. There are two stories in one book. Strangely, I w 4 Stars I think I can tell that Jojo Moyes became one of my favorite authors. I\u2019ve read four books by her and I loved them all. I read The Last Letter from Your Lover back in May, when I had a break from reviewing. I had a pile of books, and I ended up writing mini-reviews for most of them. Not in this case. This book deserves a full review. The Last Letter from Your Lover has similar structure to another Jojo Moyes\u2019s book The Girl You Left Behind. There are two stories in one book. Strangely, I wasn\u2019t frustrated when we were abruptly switched from one story to another as I was while reading The Girl You Left Behind. Probably I was prepared this time. In 1960 Jennifer Stirling awakened in hospital after a car accident with no recollections of who she was and how she ended up there. As she\u2019s trying to return to normal life, she could feel the strain between her and her husband and finally she found a letter from a mysterious B where he asked her to leave her husband. It\u2019s obvious she had a lover, but who he was and how Jennifer could find him? In 2003 Ellie Haworth, a journalist who is trying to pick up her collapsing career, finds this letter in the newspaper\u2019s archive. Intrigued, she decides to find out what happened to Jennifer and B, while trying to sort her own life, since she has an affair with a married man. The first chapters of the book were slow, painfully so. Probably some readers would get bored and give up on the book, but I didn\u2019t have problem with it. Jojo Moyes perfectly created this stifling atmosphere, where confused Jennifer couldn\u2019t breathe. I admit I was hesitant to pick up this book because it deals with infidelity. Writing about such sensitive topic requires tact and not every writer can pull it off. But Jojo Moyes did an amazing job here. All relationships in this book were complex, messy and real. Laurence, Jennifer\u2019s husband was an interesting character. I\u2019m glad Jojo Moyes didn\u2019t make him the evil, so Jennifer\u2019s choice would be easy. Laurence was an average man from that period of time. He was cold, he thought that a good wife should be just a pretty silent thing on her husband\u2019s arm, but he genuinely loved Jennifer, he tried to make her happy in his own way, and he suffered and didn\u2019t understand why she wasn\u2019t happy. Romance between Jennifer and B really touched me despite it being an affair. Their story was unfolded in snippet, by letters, memories, and my heart broke every time something went wrong. \"If only\u2019 is a very dangerous game indeed.\" You know I tend to think and rethink \u201cwhat if\u201d; what if I\u2019ve done it differently. I consciously try not to do it because what good can it bring? I\u2019ve done what I\u2019ve done and now I can\u2019t change it. Life goes on. So Jennifer and B's story was like my personal hell. So many lost opportunities, so many different paths, so many \u201cwhat ifs\u201d. I especially was grabbed by relationship between Ellie and John. He is married and she is that woman. I didn\u2019t expect to feel so much. I sympathized with Ellie, I felt frustration, anger. Their relationship were painful, draining. While Ellie could see the toxic effect they had on her life, she couldn\u2019t get out of this trap. When I was in my early twenties, young and single, and later when I was happy newlywed I had a strong negative opinion about infidelity. I was quick to judge and thought that to have an affair was an awful and unforgivable thing to do. I also pitied and couldn\u2019t understand those women who stayed with their unfaithful husbands. As time passed something in me shifted and I realized that things are not black and white. Relationships are more complex. I don\u2019t try to justify infidelity. I personally think that if two people love each other and are in relationship, they should be faithful, but now I have it in me to at least try to understand the other side. The other revelation I had some time ago, you can\u2019t really predict how you would react if you discovered that your partner was unfaithful. My close friend found herself in such situation. She always was pretty vocal that she would kick her husband out of her life if he cheated but when it happened she decided to give him second chance, she did it for herself, for their relationship, for their children. God, it\u2019s so easier when it\u2019s just two of you\u2026 So far they are good together. I\u2019m sorry, I got way off track here, but this book made me think about all of this. There was a scene in the book that was a trigger to this train of thoughts. (view spoiler) [The scene where John\u2019s wife confronts Ellie. (hide spoiler) ] I absolutely loved Ellie\u2019s relationship with Rory. He is a sweet guy, very down-to-earth. I felt like he can be my neibour. He is not a muscular superhero with bad behavior, he is kind, caring guy. I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever come across such an unflattering description of hero. \"He\u2019s not her type. He\u2019s sarcastic, a bit chippy, probably several years younger than she is. She suspects he earns significantly less than she does, and probably still shares a flat.\" Isn\u2019t it wonderful? and another: \"Her head, her flat, her life, are full of John. There\u2019s no room for this man. Perhaps what she actually feels for him is sisterly, and only mildly confused by the fact that he is not exactly ugly.\" At first Ellie didn\u2019t see him as a love interest at all. She just liked to spend time with him and in his presence she could relax, be herself. There was a scene when they went skating: \"When she fell over, he laughed mercilessly. It was liberating to do this with someone whose opinion she cared so little for: if it had been John, she would have fretted that the chill of the ice was making her nose redden.\" As they form tentative friendship I couldn\u2019t help myself, but rooted for them and wished them to become more than friends. There was also twist at the end which I totally didn\u2019t see coming. Speaking about the end, I was pleased how the book ended. It was an open-ending but full of hope. All in all I it was another great book by Jojo Moyes, and I enjoyed it a lot. You can find my reviews: [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Ok, I have to admit, I liked this book. Definitely chick lit. At times it was very reminiscent of Letters to Juliet and felt like I was reading that story. It did have a love story within a love story. As well as a 40 year gap in one of them. I might have shed a tear even. I've officially been baptized into Moyes' works and now look feverishly to her other stories! 3.5/5 Quite enjoyed this. I was afraid it would be overly sentimental, and while this was very much a love story it all felt just right. Things were helped along by a story that had more to it than just couples getting together--interesting observations about relationships in both the 1960s and 2000s. The cover illustration of The Last Letter from Your Lover by Jojo Moyes both drew me in and made me wary of the story. That intense bluish tone, the longing gaze between lovers against the vivid Lon 3.5/5 Quite enjoyed this. I was afraid it would be overly sentimental, and while this was very much a love story it all felt just right. Things were helped along by a story that had more to it than just couples getting together--interesting observations about relationships in both the 1960s and 2000s. The cover illustration of The Last Letter from Your Lover by Jojo Moyes both drew me in and made me wary of the story. That intense bluish tone, the longing gaze between lovers against the vivid London skyline caught my eye. I admit I'm a sucker for those old-fashioned sepia-tone (or tinted in this case) photos, because they make me curious to know who those people were. I will at least look twice and then a story about separated lovers and lost letters is something of a hook for me. However, I don't do well lately with mushy love stories. I like happy endings as much as the next person but there has to be a dash of reality there as well (preferably reality with a dash of romance). So I was pleasantly surprised by this story. Okay, it is a love story, actually two as there are parallel/intertwined stories going on, but it also had a little something extra which made it feel weightier than your garden variety romance. Moyes juxtaposes two love affairs that take place forty years apart with interesting and satisfying results. In 1960 Jennifer Stirling wakes in a hospital room battered and confused. Her short term memory is hazy, so she doesn't recall the circumstances that put her there, but her husband assures her she'll be okay. It's better not to talk about the car accident and simply put it behind her and move on. She's a society wife with an elegant home, a closet full of beautiful clothes, a housekeeper and a tight knit circle of friends with whom they often socialize with. Laurence is a successful businessman who has a string of productive mining companies and certain expectations from a wife to keep up appearances. When Jennifer returns home, she feels almost as though she is starting from scratch, so foreign does Laurence and her life feel to her. As she explores her house to try and reorient herself she discovers a number of letters, passionate love letters, addressed to her but signed simply B. But she has no memory of this B. and what he meant to her. From there the story moves forward and backward in time between what happened before and after the accident. While vacationing on the French Riviera with their friends, Laurence agrees to be interviewed by a reporter from a British newspaper. Anthony O'Hare is a hardened reporter, more comfortable covering a bloody anticolonial uprising in Africa than dealing with rich businessmen and their selfish wives. He calls Jennifer a spoiled tai tai, not realizing she's overheard him. When she calls him on it later he at least has the grace to apologize and begins to realize that behind her perfect facade there is an unexpected Last letter depth to her. She's graceful and dignified but perhaps a little unhappy, too, in her life--a life so smooth and perfect on the surface but not at all lovely underneath. So begins their ill-fated romance filled with misunderstandings, crossed letters and missed opportunities. The story moves rapidly to a climactic denouement, where the reader discovers just what happened during Jennifer's accident, but that's not the end. Moving forward to 2003 thirtyish Ellie Haworth is involved with a married man and her affair is engulfing her life. Her friends know it's not good for her, and maybe in the back of her mind she knows it, too, but she can't and doesn't want to untangle herself from it. But it affects her work as a journalist. Her work suffers due to her preoccupations with her love life putting her job in jeopardy. When she finds a love letter in a file she's working from, which has sat hidden away in the paper's library for four decades she's drawn into this secret affair--compelled to find out whether the woman left her husband and met her lover to run away with him. This is a story that sounds like it could easily have fallen into a trap of sentimentality, doesn't it? Moyes, however, places her characters in difficult positions without always letting them take the easy way out. She convincingly creates a world of claustrophobia for Jennifer. As little more than a trophy wife, and raised to be so, there are few opportunities for her. She finds she must choose passion or practicality, but following her heart will come at a steep price. And Ellie's life is filled with complications, mostly of her own import. She, too, learns that matters of the heart come at a cost. Moyes is adept at portraying life in the 1960s very vividly. The story is wrapped up in the events of the day with its restrictive attitudes and double standards for women as well she touches on the tragic events of the Congo and bad business practices which caused illnesses that were subsequently covered up. I was interested to read that the UK edition of this book includes actual love letters--the US edition does not. As well the format was slightly changed. Ellie's story is not introduced until after Jennifer's and Anthony's is told, though the two plotlines do eventually come together at end. The UK edition also has quite a different feel with a very different cover illustration. This was a very enjoyable read for me. It makes me all the more anxious to pull out my copy of Foreign Fruit, which I bought years ago. ...more This was a very enjoyable read. My only real complaint is that I would have been less confused if there had been an indication of when the different threads of the story were happening - the contemporary story was obvious, but the stories of a woman back in the 1960's flitted between before and after a severe car accident in which she sustained significant amnesia and it was a little hard to work out what was happening in the early pages when I didn't realise that some parts were from before her This was a very enjoyable read. My only real complaint is that I would have been less confused if there had been an indication of when the different threads of the story were happening - the contemporary story was obvious, but the stories of a woman back in the 1960's flitted between before and after a severe car accident in which she sustained significant amnesia and it was a little hard to work out what was happening in the early pages when I didn't realise that some parts were from before her accident. This is my second Jojo Moyes book, and it won't be my last. I love the way she tells stories. This one didn't make me cry, as did Me Before You but it was still a very satisfying read. ...more Wauw. Ik kon wel huilen toen dit boek uit was. Wat een emotioneel verhaal.", "Title": "The Last Letter from Your Lover"},
