{"Comments": "I'm a recent fan of <---A>Curtis Sittenfeld</---A>. I hadn't read any of her work until I read Prep,<---M> but once I finished it</---M>, I wanted to read everything she wrote. I was doubly intrigued when I found out that the protagonist of <+++>American Wife</+++> is a very thinly veiled Laura Bush. For the most part, I enjoyed <+++>American Wife</+++>. The first three sections were so engaging that I never wanted to put the book down. Alice Blackwell is the kind of character you wish were real. I found myself feeling like I were in her kitch I'm a recent fan of Curtis Sittenfeld. I hadn't read any of her work until I read Prep, but once I finished it, I wanted to read everything she wrote. I was doubly intrigued when I found out that the protagonist of American Wife is a very thinly veiled Laura Bush. For the most part, I enjoyed American Wife. The first three sections were so engaging that I never wanted to put the book down. Alice Blackwell is the kind of character you wish were real. I found myself feeling like I were in her kitchen, listening to her stories over a cup of coffee. The Alice Blackwell in these sections is a woman that is wonderfully complex and interesting. The real magic is that all the hype about the character being modeled after Laura Bush completely disappeared. However, that complexity gets lost in the last section. If there was any doubt that Alice is Laura and that Charlie is George W, it gets thrown out the window immediately as Sittenfeld presents the Blackwells with the same history as the Bushes: the controversial 2000 election, the terrorist attacks, the failed war, even a grieving father that protests the war by camping outside the White House. At that point, I feel the book lost some of its magic for me. The prose got much more expository and the story turned heavy handed. I wish the story and its characters had maintained the same complexities it did in its earlier sections. ...more Rarely am I so repulsed by a book while still able to honestly say that it wasn't completely awful. I can't ignore the fact that Curtis Sittenfeld (a woman by the way. I didn't look at the picture in the book jacket and had a male author writing this in my head for well over half the book) creates one of the most interesting and well-developed characters, Alice Blackwell, for a novel that I have read in a while. The creepy part of that is she modeled Alice after Laura Bush, flagrantly so, and I' Rarely am I so repulsed by a book while still able to honestly say that it wasn't completely awful. I can't ignore the fact that Curtis Sittenfeld (a woman by the way. I didn't look at the picture in the book jacket and had a male author writing this in my head for well over half the book) creates one of the most interesting and well-developed characters, Alice Blackwell, for a novel that I have read in a while. The creepy part of that is she modeled Alice after Laura Bush, flagrantly so, and I'm left feeling it's all unfair somehow.<---F> I've always enjoyed historical fiction</---F>. I've given high praise to authors who seem able to \"resurrect\" actual historical figures and infuse life into them by placing them in dynamic relationships and creating a voice with conversations. Perhaps the historical figures need to be dead before writing about them, because when Sittenfeld takes the same liberties with Laura Bush, fictionalizing her actual history, I'm left with is disgust at Sittenfeld's disregard for her privacy, her public position not to mention the actual truth and have a very strong urge to dismiss this book as gossipy garbage. Sittenfeld must have expected reactions such as mine. From it's charged release during last year's Republican National Convention, the book has been criticized by many, mostly Republicans, as being salacious and untrue - two charges Sittenfeld herself agrees with. Well...maybe not the salacious part, but she certainly included enough sex to keep even the fluffiest of beach readers happy. Doing so didn't give the book an honest quality but it did manage to make it feel trashy. She tried hard enough to portray Charlie Blackwell as close to the general media's version of George W. Bush that the otherwise normal trash becomes a downright disturbing image. I wish I could scrub my brain. But not all of it is tawdry and in poor taste. Alice is so...real, in both her motivations and actions that if she were completely fictional my fingers would be tripping over themselves typing, \"just so real and complex. So full of depth.\" As a result, I feel like a hypocrite for being so turned off. After all, are any characters truly \"made up?\" It seems to me that most authors use real life subjects as inspiration for their characters, so if the author acknowledges this, and even leaves that inspiration exposed and traceable, should they get less or more credit for being authentic? When I finished reading, all I wanted to know was, \"How much of this is true?\" Enough of the events in Alice's fictional life are documented facts in Laura Bush's own that it seems more true than it is. In an interview Sittenfeld gave, she claims 85 % of it is fiction. That only the major events in each of the book's four sections (accidentally killing a classmate of hers in a car accident during high school, being a librarian and meeting her husband at a BBQ, having a husband who bought a major league baseball team, and being married to the President of the United States) are true and everything else is speculation and \"what if\"s. I guess that's fair but it still doesn't seem like it. For a book to be written about an actual First Lady, a human being entitled to the same dignity we all deserve and a woman who most of America holds in high regard (even the author herself admits that she's fascinated by her), and to speculate about private things like her sexuality, her commitment to her husband, an abortion and drug use, and dress it up as fiction to avoid being charged with slander and libel seems cowardly. The author claims her intention was not to expose Laura Bush but to write what life might be like if you happened to marry a guy who went on to become President of the United States. If she had managed to write that, and leave out her obvious bias for Laura Bush and against President Bush - she might have succeeded in writing something thought provoking and brave. While it may be thought-provoking, it certainly isn't brave...it's cheap and dangerous. Sittenfeld may have opened my eyes to the price and path of fame, but she did so at the cost of my own respect for her. ...more As I said in my comments when I posted this book to my \"Currently Reading\" list, I've \"never read Curtis before but an semi-obsessed with novels about First Ladies and First Daughters. Plus, I love wedding gowns.\" That's right, I was suckered in by the wedding gown! But come on -- it's a luscious dress, like a mound of whipped cream sprinkled with sugar. And truly, when I had a chance to read the ARE, I couldn't say no, since I have heard only good things about Curtis's stuff. There must be someth As I said in my comments when I posted this book to my \"Currently Reading\" list, I've \"never read Curtis before but an semi-obsessed with novels about First Ladies and First Daughters. Plus, I love wedding gowns.\" That's right, I was suckered in by the wedding gown! But come on -- it's a luscious dress, like a mound of whipped cream sprinkled with sugar. And truly, when I had a chance to read the ARE, I couldn't say no, since I have heard only good things about Curtis's stuff. There must be something wrong with me, because I did not enjoy this book, and the more I think about it, the less I like it. I started reading and I was excited, this Alice Cole character was promising, she seemed sincere and real. Even Charlie Blackwell was a likable enough meat-eater, despite his privledged background and carefree arrogance, because we got to know him through Alice's eyes., who loved him despite herself. I think I began to feel jipped when I realized there wasn't going to be an elaborate wedding scene in the novel, that Alice was never going to wear the wedding gown (or anything nearly like it) pictured on the book jacket. That isn't to say she doesn't get married. Ultimately, two things turned me off of this novel. First, I realized I was reading a highly fictionalized account of Laura and George W. Bush's relationship, and frankly, I don't care about them or their relationship. I would have liked this book more had it been about some completely faux, wholly invented presidential marriage. I read this book through to the end, because I had faith that Alice would do something dramatic, she'd do something to win back my respect, that would remind me why I liked her in the first place. But, ultimately, even her grandest gestures, and her most private, at a potentially pivotal point in her life, brought her right back to the status quo, to towing the line for her husband's administration and leadership. Her self-relfection and explanations were thin, and to me sounded more like justifications. Ultimately, I didn't like Alice Blackwell, the American Wife, and resented Curtis for having talked me into spending so much time with her (550 pages worth). I'm sorry. Clearly, I'm not the right reader for this book. ...more The first 439 pages of this novel merit 5 stars. Alas! When our American wife makes it to the White House, the story falls flat on its face. Anyway, this is the engrossing (and somewhat trashy) tale of <---C>Alice Lindgren</---C> Blackwell, future first lady. Growing up in a small Wisconsin town, Alice has a good life. She is an only child who lives with her mother, father, and grandmother. Her father has a job at the bank, her mother is the perfect housewife, and her grandmother is an eccentric intellectual. The first 439 pages of this novel merit 5 stars. Alas! When our American wife makes it to the White House, the story falls flat on its face. Anyway, this is the engrossing (and somewhat trashy) tale of Alice Lindgren Blackwell, future first lady. Growing up in a small Wisconsin town, Alice has a good life. She is an only child who lives with her mother, father, and grandmother. Her father has a job at the bank, her mother is the perfect housewife, and her grandmother is an eccentric intellectual. Alice is beautiful and bookish, and as sweet as can be. But things change when Alice is in a car accident, an accident in which she is responsible for the death of a classmate. This is where her life takes a sordid turn! I won't give away the rest of the plot. Everyone knows that this story was loosely based on that of Laura Bush. It's fun to keep that in mind while reading, particularly when she meets her future husband, Charlie Blackwell. Alice is very likable, and you cannot help but to become involved in her story. The plot is quite engaging and only becomes stale when she actually moves into the White House. ...more This book is a fabulous read -- and as far as I can gather, inspired by a sentiment I can understand well: Fascination with Laura Bush. I certainly don't share enough fascination to have written a novel about her, but even from my own experience of meeting her VERY briefly, she is incredibly NICE. So the premise grabbed my attention. In the novel, this Laura-esque character is a bit of a contradiction -- a true free thinker and yet an obedient wife and first lady. At times it is hard to square, b This book is a fabulous read -- and as far as I can gather, inspired by a sentiment I can understand well: Fascination with Laura Bush. I certainly don't share enough fascination to have written a novel about her, but even from my own experience of meeting her VERY briefly, she is incredibly NICE. So the premise grabbed my attention. In the novel, this Laura-esque character is a bit of a contradiction -- a true free thinker and yet an obedient wife and first lady. At times it is hard to square, but I'll give Curtis Sittenfeld a break on this one, because I really love the character nonetheless. And she even does a quite generous job with the George-esque character, finding a narrative that makes him both a dufus and intensely charming -- to the point that we can almost understand how he might manage to win the presidency. ...more I will have to go for two stars on this one. This 'biographical fictional' tale of Laura Bush started out five stars, but finally fell flat in the last third of the book. I struggled to finish. I also feel uncomfortable with the repulsive, salacious details provided, although the author claimed that 95% of the book is fiction. Huh?!...W.w.w.w.what?!... C.c.c.c.come again?! Building a story around a president of the USA and his wife, surely demands some respect for privacy, truth, facts, if it is I will have to go for two stars on this one. This 'biographical fictional' tale of Laura Bush started out five stars, but finally fell flat in the last third of the book. I struggled to finish. I also feel uncomfortable with the repulsive, salacious details provided, although the author claimed that 95% of the book is fiction. Huh?!...W.w.w.w.what?!... C.c.c.c.come again?! Building a story around a president of the USA and his wife, surely demands some respect for privacy, truth, facts, if it is so blatantly based on real people, right? Was this exploitation for sales? I think so. For this reason it deserves the lowest rating possible. Aren't we all a bit tired of media exploitation? The past election coverage in America is a text book example of it. One of millions. Why should facts interfere with a good story, yes. I am not even American, but even I felt terrorized and traumatized in the aftermath! This book is no exception. However, the first three hundred or so pages of the book, the detailed descriptions of Milwaukee and surroundings; the lives of Alice as a young teenager and young adult, the colorful social set-up, and the historical background was really well done. The information dumping to fill up too many pages, losing the tension, was not. There's moments of tragedy and brighter moments of happiness, good and less good people making up the adjectives. The realism so well used. I felt present, part of the families, a good, loyal friend of Alice's. Entrenched. Involved. Despite an effort to vilify Charles (George Bush) as a hard drinking, lazy misfit... truth or fiction?...never mind, I still liked the character, the people lover, the social animal. I don't know George Bush from Adam, but Charles was a gentle, tough, good man. Alice (Laura Bush) started out as a strong protagonist, but ended up a pathetic whiner claiming noble victim status, trying very hard to be a heroine, but alas, did not make it - my opinion. Remarkable, maybe. I should have stopped reading before they arrived in the White House, and just ignored the gory details of the 'fiction' surrounding them. How do we distinguish between facts and fiction? The ending... where is it? Two forced stars. Sorry. One of us in this experience was lying, and it's not going to be me. It is about principles. ...more I loved Curtis Sittenfeld's debut novel, Prep. And while I wasn't thrilled when I discovered that the main character of this book was based upon Laura Bush, I remembered how brilliantly Ms. Sittenfeld crafted the coming of age story of her young protagonist in Prep. I suspected that her treatment of Laura Bush masquerading as Alice Lindgren Blackwell would be equally engaging. For the greater part of the book, I was not disappointed. An American Wife proved to be a refreshingly modern rendition I loved Curtis Sittenfeld's debut novel, Prep. And while I wasn't thrilled when I discovered that the main character of this book was based upon Laura Bush, I remembered how brilliantly Ms. Sittenfeld crafted the coming of age story of her young protagonist in Prep. I suspected that her treatment of Laura Bush masquerading as Alice Lindgren Blackwell would be equally engaging. For the greater part of the book, I was not disappointed. An American Wife proved to be a refreshingly modern rendition of a classic American coming of age. However, the book's final chapter proved to be a bit of a let down. It seems that the author lost her focus after the main characters moved into the white house. I could barely endure the main character's laundry list of complaints and regrets about her role as first lady. It was distracting and it almost ruined a perfectly lovely book. ...more Wow. One of the best books I've read this year. Just forget what you might have heard about this book being a mirror of the life of Laura Bush (it is, but ...), it's really about the life of one woman, and purely on its own merits as a novel, it\u2019s moving, thoughtful and wonderfully wrought. The author gives Alice (and Charlie) complexity, hopes and fears \u2014 and lives, even if their lives (in the White House and before and after) aren\u2019t like ours. She empathetically details the burdens and isolatio Wow. One of the best books I've read this year. Just forget what you might have heard about this book being a mirror of the life of Laura Bush (it is, but ...), it's really about the life of one woman, and purely on its own merits as a novel, it\u2019s moving, thoughtful and wonderfully wrought. The author gives Alice (and Charlie) complexity, hopes and fears \u2014 and lives, even if their lives (in the White House and before and after) aren\u2019t like ours. She empathetically details the burdens and isolation of being famous, the doubts and regrets people carry with them through their lives, and the challenges that married couples face over the years. Sweeping and at the same time intensely personal, \u201cAmerican Wife\u201d explores the most intimate parts of Alice\u2019s life and marriage with a piercing realism that captures the height and depth of emotions without ever straying into melodrama. It\u2019s one of those rare books that when you have to put it down for a while, you wonder what the characters are doing while you\u2019re gone. And when you put it down for good, it\u2019s like saying farewell to a dear friend. ...more I'm surprised, but so far I *really* like this. The main character is very compelling and I love the grandmother. More soon.... 9/30: The first chapters are definitely the best, and my biggest problem with this novel is all the TELLING instead of SHOWING. There was so much rumination, explanation, summary, etc. that it started driving me crazy, and the last 150 pages were tough to get through. It needed more scenes, action, dialogue. Also, how did the fairly interesting young Alice become this c I'm surprised, but so far I *really* like this. The main character is very compelling and I love the grandmother. More soon.... 9/30: The first chapters are definitely the best, and my biggest problem with this novel is all the TELLING instead of SHOWING. There was so much rumination, explanation, summary, etc. that it started driving me crazy, and the last 150 pages were tough to get through. It needed more scenes, action, dialogue. Also, how did the fairly interesting young Alice become this country club Junior League person? Alice gets really dull, and we don't really see/understand her transformation b/c of the time shifts between sections. It was creepy to have to imagine George W. Bush having sex, too, for sure. That was another problem--I was always thinking about the real-life \"characters,\" and so it's hard for me to respond to _American Wife_ as a novel. I wonder if this would be a better book if it were completely fictional? The grandmother was still my favorite character. And maybe Snowflake. ...more This book got four stars from me because I agree with most of the reviews (not here; \"out there\"): The first three sections (about 3/4 of the book) were good and interesting but the fourth section just didn't work as well. It was like being brought up short: \"Oh yeah...she's the First Lady. Damn.\" Of course it's the parallel to that other First Lady that has people reading this book but it's in the first three sections that Sittenfeld creates this interesting and complex character (yeah, she's al This book got four stars from me because I agree with most of the reviews (not here; \"out there\"): The first three sections (about 3/4 of the book) were good and interesting but the fourth section just didn't work as well. It was like being brought up short: \"Oh yeah...she's the First Lady. Damn.\" Of course it's the parallel to that other First Lady that has people reading this book but it's in the first three sections that Sittenfeld creates this interesting and complex character (yeah, she's also pretty passive, but I understood why she was) that you can almost detach from that other First Lady. On reading some of the bad reviews (\"here\" as well as \"there\") I wonder whether people are allowing their antipathy for the Bush administration to color their opinions. I understand this (to an extent) but I also understand how Sittenfeld can take a premise (see 2004 Salon article) and turn it into something that's not a memoir or a biography but a mostly unique work of fiction that is loosely inspired by real people and events. ...more OK, so here\u2019s my gripe. Against no one in particular, just things not going exactly as I\u2019d thought they might. Being the recipient of ARCs (Advanced Reading Copies) of books does not automatically shield you from spoilers, does not give you back that Virgin Reader Experience. Especially if you cheat on yourself and troll around the Interwebs for feedback about the book before you\u2019ve finished reading. Doh, did it to myself again!! In this case, it\u2019s American Wife by Curtis Sittenfeld. After a coupl OK, so here\u2019s my gripe. Against no one in particular, just things not going exactly as I\u2019d thought they might. Being the recipient of ARCs (Advanced Reading Copies) of books does not automatically shield you from spoilers, does not give you back that Virgin Reader Experience. Especially if you cheat on yourself and troll around the Interwebs for feedback about the book before you\u2019ve finished reading. Doh, did it to myself again!! In this case, it\u2019s American Wife by Curtis Sittenfeld. After a couple real duds from ARC programs, I was so excited to find the characters and plot entrancing and thoughtful in the first couple hundred pages. I was feeling very grateful to Random House for such a juicy, engaging, character-rich read. I was completely convinced when I started the book and saw the internal dialogue from the perspective of a First Lady that this was a completely postulated presidency in a parallel time. (How\u2019s that for alliteration?) And as the central character, Alice, began to grow into a hugely likeable and deeply flawed friend, I became even more sure that Alice could not possibly have anything to do with any living or former First Lady. Then I lost my good sense and wanted to see what the \u201cother kids are thinking.\u201d So that\u2019s how I found out that the main character is a veiled version of Laura Bush. Now, when I pick this book back up, despite the roaringly good head start I had with it, every time the male central character has dialogue, I am tortured by hearing it as the weaselly George Bush would say it. OY. I may have wrecked this for myself. But I should keep plugging through and give my new friend Alice the benefit of the doubt. I find myself working hard to replace the George Bush image with some very strong other player, like maybe a younger James Garner. Maybe that will take hold, sure would be better. ...more This is one of the most thought-provoking and absorbing books I have read in a while. (I'm pretty sure I thought about it in my sleep.) First, there's the fact that it's loosely based on the life of Laura Bush; second, there's the fact that Curtis Sittenfeld has a staggering talent for making characters absolutely real (even when they aren't real already; see PREP). Sittenfeld gives so much insight into Alice Blackwell, and when you, as the reader, understand in such a close and detailed way wha This is one of the most thought-provoking and absorbing books I have read in a while. (I'm pretty sure I thought about it in my sleep.) First, there's the fact that it's loosely based on the life of Laura Bush; second, there's the fact that Curtis Sittenfeld has a staggering talent for making characters absolutely real (even when they aren't real already; see PREP). Sittenfeld gives so much insight into Alice Blackwell, and when you, as the reader, understand in such a close and detailed way what \"Alice\" is thinking and how she is feeling, it's nearly impossible not to be as sympathetic as the author. It's really, truly, mind-opening (thinking, of course, of Laura Bush). The book is set around four distinct phases in Alice's life; it skips over the time when Charlie Blackwell is governor, before he becomes president. I would have gladly read another 100 or 200 pages describing this period - and, except for cases where I feel the end has been rushed, I rarely feel that books should be longer than they are. ...more You never know what goes on behind closed doors. And after reading American Wife, we still don\u2019t know what goes on behind closed doors, but it sure is riveting to read what might. When the subject is married to a good-time Charlie (Charlie Blackwell in this case) from a prominent political family, who purchased a Major League baseball team, served as a Republican governor, then won a contested election to become a two-term President . . . well, it all sounds very familiar. The mix of truth and f You never know what goes on behind closed doors. And after reading American Wife, we still don\u2019t know what goes on behind closed doors, but it sure is riveting to read what might. When the subject is married to a good-time Charlie (Charlie Blackwell in this case) from a prominent political family, who purchased a Major League baseball team, served as a Republican governor, then won a contested election to become a two-term President . . . well, it all sounds very familiar. The mix of truth and fiction grabs your attention and throttles up the curiosity factor. It convinced me that I\u2019m not interested in being First Lady, but I admit it left me a little empathetic toward the woman who recently held that role. ...more Three stars is really more of an average. Four stars for the first half, and two for the last half. However, when reading the first chunk of the book, I was excited, engaged, engrossed, and believed that Sittenfeld had pulled off something epic here, a truly staggering undertaking. I'm interested to see what the reviews will have to say. God knows there have been books with less strong beginnings and worse endings lauded as excellent. (Indecision, I'm lookin' at you!) I have to say, based on the Three stars is really more of an average. Four stars for the first half, and two for the last half. However, when reading the first chunk of the book, I was excited, engaged, engrossed, and believed that Sittenfeld had pulled off something epic here, a truly staggering undertaking. I'm interested to see what the reviews will have to say. God knows there have been books with less strong beginnings and worse endings lauded as excellent. (Indecision, I'm lookin' at you!) I have to say, based on the beginning, I'd say that full scale embrace of the book by reviewers would not bother me. ...more This thinly veiled fictional account of Laura Bush was absolutely fantastic. I'm sure the First Lady will be embarrassed by certain juicy, fabricated events, but all in all, I found this to be a love letter to her from the author, who claims to be a huge Laura Bush groupie. Sittenfeld is a true master of character development and this is some of the best fiction I've read in awhile--I couldn't put it down and stayed up way too late reading it. wow, my foray into new fiction turned ugly with the first of many sex scenes between a Laura Bush a clef and a George W. Bush a clef. Then it turned uglier with each further insight into GW's pretend sex life. Such as \"I held his penis. It had a nice weight\" or somehting like that. You have to be a sick fuck to want to think about GWs penis. Plus this is one of those books whose back covers calls it \"brave\" and that pisses me off. Usually it means it's some milquetoast bullshit that tries to use wow, my foray into new fiction turned ugly with the first of many sex scenes between a Laura Bush a clef and a George W. Bush a clef. Then it turned uglier with each further insight into GW's pretend sex life. Such as \"I held his penis. It had a nice weight\" or somehting like that. You have to be a sick fuck to want to think about GWs penis. Plus this is one of those books whose back covers calls it \"brave\" and that pisses me off. Usually it means it's some milquetoast bullshit that tries to use little words to great effect, little sound, little fury, little signifying. And that's what this is, a scurillous little romp with lame dialogue which adds up to 0 insight into how 2 private persons become intensely powerful, and how they inhabit their power or their poewr inhabits them. That's really why I read this book, because of my interest in the everyday of the great, in contrast to the past many decades of democratic fiction (you might call it) with its obsessive attention to the ephemera of little lives, down to the brands that occur in them and their faintest (especially their faintest) sensoria. So this is a peculiar hybrid, an entry that hustles itself into the slaughterhouse of fiction, as Moretti calls it, but which is so interesting for that reason: an effort to tell big stories as if they were the same as little stories, but with a different adress. A new entry in the venerable tradition of political pornography, in which the pornography, rather than discrediting \"a great one\" (un grand), burnishes his title to normalcy. Oh, plus I love how the word \"zaftig\" stands out like an SAT word in the pallid writing. That's what the SAT has done to us. Divided words into regular words and SAT words, and when you encounter SAT words in the middle of a book like this you say to yourself (or you are supposed to)--ooh, nice SAT word. ...more A character-driven story about Alice Blackwell, a small town girl who meets and falls in love with a rising Republican hot-shot from her home state of Wisconsin. The strength of this story comes from the first-person narration by Alice and the way the story is told. Each of the four sections of the story are defined by a place Alice lives and she tells the story of not only what's going on in her life at the time, but fills in certain details to help clue you in on the overall pattern of her lif A character-driven story about Alice Blackwell, a small town girl who meets and falls in love with a rising Republican hot-shot from her home state of Wisconsin. The strength of this story comes from the first-person narration by Alice and the way the story is told. Each of the four sections of the story are defined by a place Alice lives and she tells the story of not only what's going on in her life at the time, but fills in certain details to help clue you in on the overall pattern of her life. It ends up making the story feel very conversational, like sitting down with an old friend and catching up a bit. The first hundred or so pages are all about establishing who Alice is, before we see her meet Charlie, the young Republican hot-shot whose star is on the rise. Despite being a Democrat, Alice finds herself falling for him and the two engaged in a whirlwind romance before getting engaged after just six weeks. The writing style of the book is well done and while it's not breaking any new ground, the voice of Alice still feels fresh, authentic and real. Watching Charlie's star rise until he achieves the ultimate in political success is fascinating. Even more fascinating is that the story here is loosely based on the story of former first lady Laura Bush. In the end, we get to see the private side of the political office and the toll it can take on any relationship. It may even persuade some to look past a politican's policies and see that there is a human being behind them, who in the end isn't really all that different from you or I. ...more The life of former First Lady Laura Bush might not sound like promising material, but this fictional autobiography delights. When shy librarian Alice falls for Charlie, heir of the Blackwell political dynasty, private tragedies from her past \u2212 and her disagreement with her husband\u2019s policies \u2212 threaten to emerge. It\u2019s delicious fun to spot Bush family and administration members in this roman \u00e0 clef . The well-drawn characters defy caricatures of a conniving presidential idiot and his meek, silent The life of former First Lady Laura Bush might not sound like promising material, but this fictional autobiography delights. When shy librarian Alice falls for Charlie, heir of the Blackwell political dynasty, private tragedies from her past \u2212 and her disagreement with her husband\u2019s policies \u2212 threaten to emerge. It\u2019s delicious fun to spot Bush family and administration members in this roman \u00e0 clef . The well-drawn characters defy caricatures of a conniving presidential idiot and his meek, silent wife. Imagining the rich inner story that resides in every unassuming introvert, Sittenfeld has created a masterpiece from an ordinary life. (With this 100-word review, I was one of 10 finalists for Stylist magazine\u2019s Culture Critic competition in April 2011. It was one of my first attempts at book reviewing!) ...more To say that I'm not a GWB (and Laura) fan is an understatement, so I wasn't sure how I would feel about this book. I've never been one who could admire Laura while disliking her husband, and for many of the same reasons covered in the book. And after having read AMERICAN WIFE, if one can assume it has any accuracy as to Mrs. Bush, I still don't know that I LIKE her or admire her, but I found her story incredibly interesting. The novel itself is well-written, and quite a page turner. I'm anxious To say that I'm not a GWB (and Laura) fan is an understatement, so I wasn't sure how I would feel about this book. I've never been one who could admire Laura while disliking her husband, and for many of the same reasons covered in the book. And after having read AMERICAN WIFE, if one can assume it has any accuracy as to Mrs. Bush, I still don't know that I LIKE her or admire her, but I found her story incredibly interesting. The novel itself is well-written, and quite a page turner. I'm anxious to discuss it. ...more Much like the protagonists of her novels American Wife and Prep , Curtis Sittenfeld, and her writing, are interesting, though interesting in a very quiet way. On the surface her work is unassuming: a charming combination of chick-lit and literary fiction. But after finishing American Wife I believe her work is more complicated than it initially appears. Sittenfeld doesn\u2019t commit to telling the most thrilling story but she does commit to respectfully recording the mundane events of a mundane perso Much like the protagonists of her novels American Wife and Prep , Curtis Sittenfeld, and her writing, are interesting, though interesting in a very quiet way. On the surface her work is unassuming: a charming combination of chick-lit and literary fiction. But after finishing American Wife I believe her work is more complicated than it initially appears. Sittenfeld doesn\u2019t commit to telling the most thrilling story but she does commit to respectfully recording the mundane events of a mundane person\u2019s mundane daily life\u2014and as a result, she shows that no one\u2019s life is truly mundane. I have so much love for this unshowy style. So often I feel deafened by how loud people are yelling to get their voices heard in today\u2019s world. But I can count on Sittenfeld for small but poignant renderings of unremarkable girls\u2019 daily lives. Unfortunately in American Wife , she loses the essence of her story. Instead of always magnifying on Alice, the unabashedly normal Midwestern girl who will remarkably become First Lady of the United States, the story focuses too much on Charlie, her husband and future Leader of the Free World. This broader scope weakens the novel because sometimes it doesn\u2019t feel like Alice\u2019s story but merely a story in which she plays a large role. Alice\u2019s character is based on Laura Bush (indeed, my post-reading Wikipedia research shows that Ms. Bush inspired this novel a lot ); thus her husband is modeled on the infamous George W. Bush. Unfortunately, it follows the Bush saga too closely. I would have preferred a simple fictional vivisection of First Lady life because the similarities to real life were eerie and distracting. It was impossible to view the characters as merely fictional creatures; I kept seeing Alice as Alice-cum-Laura Bush and Charlie as Charlie-cum-Mr. President-George W. Bush. Like her debut novel Prep , American Wife is a lesson in passivity. It\u2019s a very feminist book without proclaiming itself as such, suggesting that the people who might best lead a country\u2014in this case, women: whose inferior position has taught them compassion\u2014will never run a campaign for that very reason. We also see, again, how being white, rich and male in America can grant you your every wish. Conversely we see how fundamentally unfair it is to be a wife. A wife compromises herself for love; she repeatedly bends her wishes to accommodate her husband. The opposite is never true, however. But most of all, Sittenfeld teaches us to respect complexity. Contradictions\u2014within a country, within a family, within ourselves\u2014are inevitable. In her quiet way, she doesn\u2019t advocate a solution to these contradictions. She doesn\u2019t take a position. She simply points her finger towards mundanely complex things we see everyday and never notice. How wonderful it is to notice them. ...more According to a brief interview at the end of the book, the author read some material about Laura Bush and got fascinated about why a seemingly compassionate and intelligent woman would marry someone like George W. This book with the characters of Alice and Charlie was her fictional response to that question, and like most good fiction, it probably has more truth to it than any non-fiction book written. Alice is a woman haunted by a tragic accident and who doesn't quite understand her own love for According to a brief interview at the end of the book, the author read some material about Laura Bush and got fascinated about why a seemingly compassionate and intelligent woman would marry someone like George W. This book with the characters of Alice and Charlie was her fictional response to that question, and like most good fiction, it probably has more truth to it than any non-fiction book written. Alice is a woman haunted by a tragic accident and who doesn't quite understand her own love for the rich, spoiled, smug frat boy she married. But they do love each other, and that's what makes this a book about a marriage in politics rather than a political book with a married couple. Sittenfeld reverses a typical biography (or fake biography) structure by focusing most on the early years of Alice and then her courtship and early marriage. A large chunk of their life together is skipped over or covered in some minor flashbacks, and this is the the time when Charlie runs for governor and then president. I loved the ending with Alice's ultimate conclusions about her relationship to Charlie and the level of responsibility she shares for his presidency as his wife. My only knocks on the book are that there's a sub-plot that came across as soap opera-ish compared to the low key narration of Alice telling her story. ...more Well, This book was SUCH a disappointment. I loved Prep. I thought Sittenfeld was a master of nuance and capturing the excruciating sensitivity to every social nuance that is being a high school student. However, this book's main character, based on Laura Bush, is extremely uninteresting. I just never liked being inside her head, but I stubbornly kept reading. Also, the sex scenes were difficult to read because I kept having to imagine George W and Laura, and it was just too much for me. And all Well, This book was SUCH a disappointment. I loved Prep. I thought Sittenfeld was a master of nuance and capturing the excruciating sensitivity to every social nuance that is being a high school student. However, this book's main character, based on Laura Bush, is extremely uninteresting. I just never liked being inside her head, but I stubbornly kept reading. Also, the sex scenes were difficult to read because I kept having to imagine George W and Laura, and it was just too much for me. And all the Wisconsin details bugged me. I kept wanting to transport the book to Midland and Dallas, Texas. I think the novel is flawed because it is too close and then again, not close enough, to a true story. ...more Well fuck me in a dog suit, this book turned out to be a fictionalized (view spoiler) [Laura Bush (hide spoiler) ] memoir. In all likelihood I probably wouldn't have read it had I done the smallest bit of research (aka reading a few reviews). As it turns out, it was a pretty good book, at least the first three quarters. Early on, I noticed some similarities between Alice Blackwell and (view spoiler) [Laura Bush (hide spoiler) ] , but it took me nearly about half the book to realize that these were mo Well fuck me in a dog suit, this book turned out to be a fictionalized (view spoiler) [Laura Bush (hide spoiler) ] memoir. In all likelihood I probably wouldn't have read it had I done the smallest bit of research (aka reading a few reviews). As it turns out, it was a pretty good book, at least the first three quarters. Early on, I noticed some similarities between Alice Blackwell and (view spoiler) [Laura Bush (hide spoiler) ] , but it took me nearly about half the book to realize that these were more than mere coincidences. Doh! ...more I enjoyed \"American Wife\". Curtis Sittenfeld is a wonderful writer. I liked her first book \"Prep\" years back, too. When is this great author going to write another book?? Really 3.5 stars It took a while to appreciate what this book accomplished. (And to read it. It\u2019s looong.) I once read something about how lonely an ex-president\u2019s life is. The only people who can relate are other ex-presidents. Being briefed daily about foreign affairs even after office is a really strange way to live in civilian life. But what is it truly like to be a First Lady? I think the answer to that differs quite a bit depending upon the woman. There have been some who have embraced the Really 3.5 stars It took a while to appreciate what this book accomplished. (And to read it. It\u2019s looong.) I once read something about how lonely an ex-president\u2019s life is. The only people who can relate are other ex-presidents. Being briefed daily about foreign affairs even after office is a really strange way to live in civilian life. But what is it truly like to be a First Lady? I think the answer to that differs quite a bit depending upon the woman. There have been some who have embraced the public eye more than others. But who was Laura Bush? Really. All I remember is how important literacy was to her. And of course I admired her for that. Also I often wondered what she saw in George W. I mean, Barack and Michelle, who could question their relationship? Or Jimmie and Rosalyn. And Ron and Nancy. Perhaps even Lady Bird and Lyndon. I can even understand Hilary and Bill. But I never did understand Laura. This book is loosely based on the Bushes, but the characters are Alice and Charlie Blackwell and they hail from Wisconsin, not Texas. Charlie buys the Brewers, not the Rangers. And Charlie and Alice\u2019s beginnings are one hot relationship. Alice is not a Republican, but a liberal who grows up in a humble middle-class home with her mother and grandmother. Her father passed a young age. She\u2019s reserved and socially tactful, and she thoroughly analyzes things she does and says and what other people do and say. Thus the long book. So if that puts you at unease, stay away. But, in Alice\u2019s being analytical, over the course of the book I developed an appreciation for what it must be like to be a first lady. And, in this case to marry into money and privilege. In the book Alice decided early on to put love first. There are so many negative things that could be said about this \u2013 giving up a career, losing friends, stifling one\u2019s opinions in public. And it isn\u2019t easy. But Alice has made her choice and she lives it to the best of her ability. (And, yes, I detested much about Charlie. He is as much like George as Alice is like Laura.) As for the quality of the book, I found it too long and there were lots of descriptions of clothing or rooms or car interiors that fell flat for me. There was unnecessary repetition. I\u2019m not a huge fan of fiction based on real lives. But here\u2019s why I\u2019m glad I read this. It realistically portrays a successful marriage - the hard work needed to make it work amidst the difficulties posed by a partner\u2019s faults. And I have a deeper understanding of what it\u2019s like to live in the oval office and be an object of the public eye. Sittenfeld doesn\u2019t make George and Laura something that they are not. She only, to the best of her ability, attempts to be objective in humanizing them. Like them or not. ...more I LOVED this book. Sittenfeld, a self-described \u201cstaunch liberal,\u201d read a biography on Laura Bush and found her to be absolutely fascinating and much more complex than most people realize. So in trying to understand her better, she wrote a fictional retelling of her life, and I thought she just nailed it on the head. I felt not only like i was walking in Laura Bush's shoes, but living in her skin. Told in first person, the story of Alice Lindgren Blackwell intimately follows the life of Laura Bu I LOVED this book. Sittenfeld, a self-described \u201cstaunch liberal,\u201d read a biography on Laura Bush and found her to be absolutely fascinating and much more complex than most people realize. So in trying to understand her better, she wrote a fictional retelling of her life, and I thought she just nailed it on the head. I felt not only like i was walking in Laura Bush's shoes, but living in her skin. Told in first person, the story of Alice Lindgren Blackwell intimately follows the life of Laura Bush, including pivotal points as she grows up: her involvement in a deadly car accident at 17, meeting George W. at a friend's barbecue, encouraging him to stop drinking, and eventually becoming first lady. She plausibly fills in the gaps of Alice's life that seem like they fit the Laura Bush narrative, and Sittenfeld gets the little details right. Most surprisingly was her portrayal of Alice and Charlie Blackwell. Instead of treating Charlie like a caricature, she writes their relationship sympathetically. No, they don't agree on everything, but she loves him, understands him and knows who he is. And Charlie adores her and remains loyal until the end. I believed their relationship to be honest, complicated, and loving, despite their many differences. They are perfect complements to each other, just like I feel George and Laura are. I was debating between 4 and 5 stars but settled on 4, only because it goes off the rails slightly when Alice becomes First Lady in the last section of the book and she makes some questionable choices that I don't believe Laura Bush would EVER make. Sittenfeld wants to have her cake and eat it too--she wants to stay consistent with Alice's character and what she believes, but she wants to make liberal arguments about why the war is wrong, or why pro-life judges are scary. You can make these arguments, but I didn't think Alice would. It just jarred with the rest of the book and left me feeling a bit frustrated. But I guess that's the point--not everything she'll say and think is going to be consistent, especially with what Charlie believes. Besides that, I thought it was wonderful. The author knows how to write people, and I found it engrossing. Loved it! ...more I got to a certain point with this and just realised I wasn't interested enough to bother picking it up again. While some aspects of Alice's character were appealing, she didn't feel like a fully rounded human being and came across as too reserved (I don't mean 'reserved' as in 'shy' - I mean it in the sense of restraining her own thoughts, feelings and reactions almost constantly) for me to empathise with her. Another problem was that I just wasn't interested in the roman \u00e0 clef element of the I got to a certain point with this and just realised I wasn't interested enough to bother picking it up again. While some aspects of Alice's character were appealing, she didn't feel like a fully rounded human being and came across as too reserved (I don't mean 'reserved' as in 'shy' - I mean it in the sense of restraining her own thoughts, feelings and reactions almost constantly) for me to empathise with her. Another problem was that I just wasn't interested in the roman \u00e0 clef element of the book. I know it's based on the life of Laura Bush, but I don't know very much about her and, as a result, the incidents based on real-life events (such as the car accident) may as well, for me, have been completely fictional. Looking over the critical responses the novel received, it seems like the biographical aspect was a major draw for both the media and a lot of readers, and I felt like I'd have got a lot more out of the story if I actually was American, had a wider knowledge of US politics or had a particular interest in Bush herself. I dare say I'd have found the later chapters more interesting simply because I'm sure they would have been more political, but this on its own wasn't enough to keep me reading. I really enjoyed Sittenfeld's Prep and although I found the tone and content quite similar, I think Prep was far easier for me to relate to because the experiences of teenagers at high school are much more universal, and Lee's flaws were easy to forgive simply because she was a teenager; not so with Alice. I think Sittenfeld is a good writer, and I'd still be interested in reading other books of hers, but American Wife , while not necessarily a BAD book, definitely wasn't for me. ...more I only read through about page 400 of this book and I don't anticipate finishing it. I agree with the majority of other reviewers that the first part is much stronger than, well, than the portion of the rest of the book that I got through at least. I thought the opening scene was nearly perfect and there were other interesting descriptions or plot developments too, but I found the narrator as an adult unbearable. I'm pretty sure that we're supposed to find her interesting and intelligent and lik I only read through about page 400 of this book and I don't anticipate finishing it. I agree with the majority of other reviewers that the first part is much stronger than, well, than the portion of the rest of the book that I got through at least. I thought the opening scene was nearly perfect and there were other interesting descriptions or plot developments too, but I found the narrator as an adult unbearable. I'm pretty sure that we're supposed to find her interesting and intelligent and likeable, but I felt like, instead of demonstrating that she is any of these things Sittenfeld just constantly mentions that Alice is a librarian and drops a lot of titles of literary novels that she's reading. Perhaps, as a librarian, I should be flattered by this method of Sittenfeld's. Instead I was disappointed. I don't think telling us someone read Pale Fire - not even whether or what she thought of it - is good character description or development. ...more I ended 2014 on a disappointing note with Richard Ford's \"Canada.\" But at least I finished it. Now I have begun 2015 on a disappointing note with Curtis Sittenfeld's \"American Wife.\" I can't remember the last time that I failed to finish a book that I started, but I will be able to remember now. It is \"American Wife.\" Richard Russo, one of my favorite writers, had good things to say about this novel in the blurb that appears on the back of the dust jacket. However, I'm not sure that we read the s I ended 2014 on a disappointing note with Richard Ford's \"Canada.\" But at least I finished it. Now I have begun 2015 on a disappointing note with Curtis Sittenfeld's \"American Wife.\" I can't remember the last time that I failed to finish a book that I started, but I will be able to remember now. It is \"American Wife.\" Richard Russo, one of my favorite writers, had good things to say about this novel in the blurb that appears on the back of the dust jacket. However, I'm not sure that we read the same book. I guess it is true: no two readers read the same book even when they read the same book. So maybe it is me and not the book. So, I surrender. But I didn't give up easily. I read 250 pages, but knowing that I still had 300 to go was more than I could face. Maybe later; probably not. ...more Reprinted from this review at my blog. Curtis Sittenfeld's new book American Wife has certainly received a lot of buzz, and it's not even officially out until 2 September. It doesn't take a genius to see why. It's a thinly disguised ripped from the headlines take on the life of Laura Bush. Some things have been changed: the Bushes are the Blackwells, the family is from Wisconsin, the elder Blackwell never made it to the White House as President, and more. But all the major events in Laura Bush's Reprinted from this review at my blog. Curtis Sittenfeld's new book American Wife has certainly received a lot of buzz, and it's not even officially out until 2 September. It doesn't take a genius to see why. It's a thinly disguised ripped from the headlines take on the life of Laura Bush. Some things have been changed: the Bushes are the Blackwells, the family is from Wisconsin, the elder Blackwell never made it to the White House as President, and more. But all the major events in Laura Bush's life have parallels: an auto accident where Alice Blackwell kills a classmate, a quick marriage to rich ne'er-do-well Charlie Blackwell, Blackwell's purchase of a baseball team, runs for governor and the presidency, and even a carefully scripted disagreement with her husband over abortion rights. I'm probably a little too cynical in thinking the differences are meant to either ward off legal action or the book was done with Laura Bush's acquiescence and input and the differences were meant as cover. I don't want to speculate as to motives too much though, because that's my biggest criticism of the book. The story is pretty pedestrian. Middle class uptight midwestern woman marries charming loose rich man, then subsequently sublimates her life to his. Really really pedestrian. And about a character type I hate. I hate female characters that have no lives of their own, where everything is domesticity. I recently found a link to the Bechdel test through Charles Stross' blog. That test has three prongs: there exists more than one woman in the story, they talk to each other, about something other than men. Nominally this book passes that test (there's a discussion about abortion rights and political responsibility between two women near the end of the book), but it sure feels like it doesn't. This is all about Alice Blackwell's kowtowing to Charlie Blackwell. If the book were about her changing Charlie Blackwell, or being an equal partner or something redeeming, I might be more sympathetic. But it's not. Time after time, incident after incident, Alice Blackwell metaphorically and literally says yes dear and goes back to cupcake baking and banquet hosting. Fine. Some people are like that. But I don't need to read about it for 551 pages. A couple of reviews I've seen have called this a sympathetic or compassionate portrait. Hogwash. Creating an image of someone who never participates in her own life is not sympathetic. Alice Blackwell doesn't stand up to anyone. She doesn't pursue the boy she has a crush on, she waits for him to make a move (which he takes over half a decade to do). She's not responsible for hooking up with Charlie Blackwell, he's just too handsome and charming and persistent. On and on. If these reviewers think that anyone wants to be portrayed like that, they run with a different crowd than I do. The only way this comes out ahead for me is if it shows some sort of insight into the real Bush's marriage. But there's a problem with that. Curtis Sittenfeld is an author, not a psychiatrist with intimate knowledge of the First Lady's psyche. Ability to divine the inner thoughts of someone else is not something I would credit to authors. Fictional people, sure. Real people, no. It's simply another form of punditry and if you read folks like Beat the Press or the Daily Howler, you'll have an idea of how futile it is to figure out motives. So unless there's some sort of deep research involved here, I pretty much have to say this doesn't pass the smell test. It sure could be a portrait of Laura Bush. But more likely it is just conjecture. ...more", "Title": "American Wife"},
