{"Comments": "I was blessed to recieve an advance copy of this book. This is <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A> at her best. I laughed, I cried but mainly I could NOT put this one down! If there was a rating higher than 5 stars this book would have earned it hands down. I'm not the kind of person that goes through the synopses of a book for a review. I don't like my journey spoiled so I don't want to spoil it for anyone else. I.<---F> LOVE! Catherine Anderson</---F>. I have since the day I found my first book, 'Keegan's Lady' a decade or so ago. I've read everything she's written. The woman tells wonderful, heartwarming AND heartbreaking stories. '<+++>Perfect Timing</+++>' is no different. This book will make you laugh out loud at the antics of <---C>Quincy Harrigan</---C> and his bride Ceara, it I'm not the kind of person that goes through the synopses of a book for a review. I don't like my journey spoiled so I don't want to spoil it for anyone else. I. LOVE! Catherine Anderson. I have since the day I found my first book, 'Keegan's Lady' a decade or so ago. I've read everything she's written. The woman tells wonderful, heartwarming AND heartbreaking stories. '<+++>Perfect Timing</+++>' is no different. This book will make you laugh out loud at the antics of Quincy Harrigan and his bride Ceara, it will also make you sob. Another reason for liking her writing? It always leaves me with a peaceful heart. In today's world, that's SO important. I was initially skeptical when the book started - it's a little different than anything she's written before. I had my doubts, and,<---M> at first</---M>, my disappointment. Once I got INto the story and let myself go, it's pure Anderson wonder. For the last 6 months, I've had a hard time keeping focused on a book I read. It might take me a month or more to finish one. Not 'Perfect Timing' -- Catherine sucks you right in at the very beginning and you can't help but soak it in and turn the pages to find out what happens next. It took me two days to go through 422 pages. If you love Catherine Anderson as much as I do, this one's definitely a keeper -- just like all her others. I hope you'll enjoy it as much as I did. ...more I absolutely loved Perfect Timing! It was a great love story. The story was easy to follow and was very entertaining! I cried, I laughed, and I cried some more. I am Hugh Catherine Anderson fan and love all her novels. She delivered another great romance. I have encouraged all may friends and family to read it. Perfect Timing, in a nutshell, is a story about the unbreakable bound that is Family. I have been a huge fan of Catherine Anderson for years. I have enjoyed all of her books and have loved many of them. It is bittersweet for me to have completed this, the final book in the Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan Series. Without giving too much away, Catherine steps a little outside the box with this one. I was surprised on the direction this book took. And I loved it. It takes a special writer that can bring Perfect Timing, in a nutshell, is a story about the unbreakable bound that is Family. I have been a huge fan of Catherine Anderson for years. I have enjoyed all of her books and have loved many of them. It is bittersweet for me to have completed this, the final book in the Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan Series. Without giving too much away, Catherine steps a little outside the box with this one. I was surprised on the direction this book took. And I loved it. It takes a special writer that can bring out every one of my emotions. I went from laughing, to crying, to laughing, to spitting mad in the course of 400 odd pages. I love the style of all of Catherine books. Perfect Timing is no exception. I love the way she builds a character. I like many styles of writing. However, when I want an honest to goodness romance story, I want Catherine Anderson. It is not smut or a thriller with a little romance on the side. Perfect Timing is a romance that builds page by page. The conflicts that have to be dealt with are on many levels things that any of us might have to deal with in our own lives. Regardless of the story line and whatever surprise twist might be in store, Perfect Timing is a story that I can relate with. It also might just leave you wondering about things you thought were not possible. ...more \"Perfect Timing\" Is PERFECT! Quincy Harrigan's story has arrived! And what an enchanting magical story, it is! FANTASTIC! PHENOMENAL! AMAZING FUN! Even you have not read the Harrigan series, READ THIS! After reading this, you will find the Harrigan family so endearing, I guarantee you, you will want to read the series. Being a huge Catherine Anderson fan and reading everyone one of her thirty plus novels, this one SOARS! It is one of my top five favorites! The adorable Irish, Ceara, a Druid from \"Perfect Timing\" Is PERFECT! Quincy Harrigan's story has arrived! And what an enchanting magical story, it is! FANTASTIC! PHENOMENAL! AMAZING FUN! Even you have not read the Harrigan series, READ THIS! After reading this, you will find the Harrigan family so endearing, I guarantee you, you will want to read the series. Being a huge Catherine Anderson fan and reading everyone one of her thirty plus novels, this one SOARS! It is one of my top five favorites! The adorable Irish, Ceara, a Druid from the 15th-Century time travels into the 21st-Century to break a curse that has been bestowed upon the Harrigan family for Centuries. This curse now threatens the life of a family member. Only Ceara and the skeptical Quincy can end this curse and must do quickly to save the life of a Harrigan. Just imagine the challenges two strangers, Centuries apart, would face. HILARIOUS, you will laugh and laugh some more! Along with a tear or two. You will have will your heart warmed and squeezed by each every character in this story. You will think outside the box, just as this extraordinary author did. This is a beyond enjoyable read! The only con, is that this book had a ending. Ye will love it! ...more I was given the wonderful opportunity to read this book, and offer a review (<---B>good or bad...</---B>), and am delighted to have been able to Thank Ms. Anderson for one of the best books I have read in years. Catherine Anderson has been an autobuy for me for as many years as she has been writing. I can only remember a few times in my life that I have sobbed harder than I did at the end of her book \"Simply Love\", or related to a female character like I did with Charlotte, in the anthology Tall Dark and Dang I was given the wonderful opportunity to read this book, and offer a review (good or bad...), and am delighted to have been able to Thank Ms. Anderson for one of the best books I have read in years. Catherine Anderson has been an autobuy for me for as many years as she has been writing. I can only remember a few times in my life that I have sobbed harder than I did at the end of her book \"Simply Love\", or related to a female character like I did with Charlotte, in the anthology Tall Dark and Dangerous (her short story is called Shotgun Bride), and if you have ever battled being heavier than the norm...PLEASE go find a used copy. The feelings are so perfectly written, that your chest hurts while you read. THERAPY! You laugh..you cry..you sigh..you fall in love, and you get to live...at least for a little while...in a world where good things happen to good people, and life always gets a happy ending. Perfect Timing is the perfect name for this book. The story is so interwoven with the earlier Coulter/Harrigan books, that as it progresses, you can feel the AhHa moments... when something from another story meshes with this one at exactly the right moment to answer all the questions, and wrap up the series. You find yourself FINALLY understanding why Quincy is so uptight, and you delight in watching him let go a lot of baggage he carried in previous books. Ladies.....he gets his comeuppance!! Ceara is everything that Quincy needs, but never realized he needed. She makes you giggle...breaks your heart with her courage...you delight in watching her learn (no spoilers, but she's got a pretty big learning curve!)...and by the end of the book, you can't imagine anyone loving Quincy more than she does. It's a fast moving book, that grabs you on page one, and refuses to let you go right through to the end! Ms. Anderson...my hat's off to you...I believe this is your best work to date. It was a privledge being able to review this for you. Thank you! ...more First off, I was blessed to receive an advance copy of this book for free from the author for my HONEST opinion, and that is what I\u2019ll write, my honest opinion. I admit I was concerned at the beginning of this book, it was not what I was expecting and I was thinking \u201cWhat have you done? \u201c. That feeling was VERY short lived. What she did was write an incredible story. Perfect Timing, more than any other book this author has written, probably made my family think I was crazy. They\u2019d look over and I First off, I was blessed to receive an advance copy of this book for free from the author for my HONEST opinion, and that is what I\u2019ll write, my honest opinion. I admit I was concerned at the beginning of this book, it was not what I was expecting and I was thinking \u201cWhat have you done? \u201c. That feeling was VERY short lived. What she did was write an incredible story. Perfect Timing, more than any other book this author has written, probably made my family think I was crazy. They\u2019d look over and I\u2019d have tears streaming down my face, then I\u2019d literally burst out laughing minutes later, and then they\u2019d hear me calling someone names. This book put me through so many emotions! There are very few authors that write books that can make me laugh, cry, and want to become a character in the book just so I can shake someone. But this one book did all the above. (And yes there were times in this book I wanted to take Quincy to the woodshed myself and I would LOVE for his beautiful lady to be a real person, you can\u2019t not love her, she\u2019s precious!). My only complaint of this book was that it ended and I wanted to keep reading and following this wonderful family\u2019s life. The Harrigan family will forever be one of my favorite \u201cfamilies\u201d and I do hope we get a glimpse of them again some time soon. I know the review has been vague but I didn't want to spoil any of it, you have to read it to believe it. This is a book that you will remember for a very long time,and probably find yourself reading again and again. I give you fair warning though, I could not put it down and lost some sleep over this book. It was so worth it! ...more Perfect Timing by Catherine Anderson Harrigan family novel, this one stars Quincy and he along with the family is praying for Loni that they will find the right antibiotic to cure her leukemia. After he finds an intruder, Cerra in the arena and has her arrested, his father Frank comes up with the family bible that does show what the woman had said-was true. The woman dressed in very old 1500 fashion and language told him what a perfect timing her being there is... Loni sees visions and she'd know i Perfect Timing by Catherine Anderson Harrigan family novel, this one stars Quincy and he along with the family is praying for Loni that they will find the right antibiotic to cure her leukemia. After he finds an intruder, Cerra in the arena and has her arrested, his father Frank comes up with the family bible that does show what the woman had said-was true. The woman dressed in very old 1500 fashion and language told him what a perfect timing her being there is... Loni sees visions and she'd know if the woman was a real druid or a fake. Kind of funny to hear him explain what a refrigerator is, where water comes from, never mind all the electronics. Loni is the clairvoyant that can link her to her past but for how long and who will ultimately pay the price... This was my first Harrigan family novel and I felt I was brought up to date with the others, but not their full pasts. Loved hearing of the hen parties, too wicked fun! Not sure if the others in the family saga deal with magic to this degree but I found it refreshing after the romance novels I've been reading. ...more I was sent this book early by the author as a gift in case I wanted to review it. What a great surprise to get in my mailbox. There is an element of paranormal in this story, but Anderson not only pulls it off,making the reader take a complete leap of imagination, she has created characters who leap right off the page and into your heart, where they will stay forever. My way of-marking a really good book is if the people in it seem so real that i feel I have not only met them but have also becom I was sent this book early by the author as a gift in case I wanted to review it. What a great surprise to get in my mailbox. There is an element of paranormal in this story, but Anderson not only pulls it off,making the reader take a complete leap of imagination, she has created characters who leap right off the page and into your heart, where they will stay forever. My way of-marking a really good book is if the people in it seem so real that i feel I have not only met them but have also become best of friends with them. You never forget a best friend. I adored this book. READ IT! READ IT! You'll be glad you did. In two years, if some says, \"Perfect Timing,\" you will immediately think of Quincy and Ceara, and you will recall every wonderful twist and turn of this story. ONE OF CATHERINE ANDERSON's BEST! ...more Catherine Anderson has proven to me once again that she is the best author I have ever found! She has taken me on another amazing journey. This book captivated me from the first sentence and has held me throughout the book! Amazing, wonderful, and captivating! A must read! I was lucky enough to receive an advance copy of Perfect Timing and considering I'm going actually start writing reviews for a change and not just hit the dang star button, I figured this would be a good one to start with. Now before I get rolling, keep in mind that while I am a lover of the romance genre, I'm generally not a fan of contemporaries. My taste tends to gear over to the historial, supernatural, or urban fantasy sub genres. I'm actually a huge fan of Ms. Anderson's historial stories b I was lucky enough to receive an advance copy of Perfect Timing and considering I'm going actually start writing reviews for a change and not just hit the dang star button, I figured this would be a good one to start with. Now before I get rolling, keep in mind that while I am a lover of the romance genre, I'm generally not a fan of contemporaries. My taste tends to gear over to the historial, supernatural, or urban fantasy sub genres. I'm actually a huge fan of Ms. Anderson's historial stories but never delved into her other work. Honestly, I had yet to find any contemporary setting that didn't either make me roll my eyes or get bored right off the bat. But this book fell into my lap and I figured I'd give it a whirl. Now while I wouldn't call Perfect Timing a full out contemporary book (It actually has lots of fantasy dusting over it) I can definitely say this was a fastastic book for me to start breaking into the sub genre. A gate-way drug, if you will. It had just the right amount of fantasy and contemporary that made me comfortable outside of the work of cowboys, wizards, and castles. A great setting, a lovely family to be introduced to and hey, who doesn't love a handsome cowboy, in any century?! Most hilarious scene? Two words. Champagine cork. What drove it straight into my heart were the characters. Ms. Anderson always creates characters I easily become attached to. I dove right into Quincy and Ceara's lives with ease; loving their quirks, their passions, and how their extremely swift marrige unfolded from sudden awkwardness to full blown love. Ceara's naivete, combind with her curiousity and gun-ho attitude charmed me from cover to cover. I'm a huge fan of charming quirky heroines who know their mind. She fit the bill. And Quincy's cocky manliness laced with his desperate need to please his tiny wife tugged at my heart. Oh and of course the sex. Oh yes, the sex! I loved the love scenes. Beautiful, sensual, and very very sexy. Now that I've read this one, I have every intention to drive right into the rest of her contemporary work. I have offically fallen in love with the Harrigan family and now I'm dying to read up on all the boys (and girl!) to get my fill of them! ...more Perfect Timing is an extraordinary read, as I got closer and closer to the end I tried to slow down the pace in which I read in order to let the book last longer. I hated to see it end. Ms. Anderson definitely went outside of the box from her normal writing style, she took a risk and it certainly paid off. I know many will summarize the story and do it far better than I so I will leave that up to them. I instead would rather just tell you my thoughts about the book. Its plot is one of my favorit Perfect Timing is an extraordinary read, as I got closer and closer to the end I tried to slow down the pace in which I read in order to let the book last longer. I hated to see it end. Ms. Anderson definitely went outside of the box from her normal writing style, she took a risk and it certainly paid off. I know many will summarize the story and do it far better than I so I will leave that up to them. I instead would rather just tell you my thoughts about the book. Its plot is one of my favorites, and a lesson I have tried to teach and live by. Love endures all things. This beautiful story shows us time and time again about the sacrifices one makes for their family and how if you believe strongly enough in love all is possible. It is an amazing love story filled with love, joy, angst, laughter and the best part for me a HEA ending. As always Ms. Anderson has you laughing out loud and then crying often within the same chapter. She has always been my favorite author, I enjoy her writing style immensely and have read all of her books , but this story has become my favorite. I never reread a book. I always felt there was just too much out there to read by so many talented people, but Perfect Timing will definitely be a reread for me. Congratulations Ms. Anderson your talent has definitely shined through and for me it was perfect timing!! P.S. I received an advance copy of this book. HAPPY READING!!!! ...more I was sooo excited to be one of the ones that got their response in on time to get an advanced copy of this book...I admit I did my happy dance in the street lol...I Had a whole range of emotions from wanting to yell @ Quincy and telling him to get his head out of his buttocks, lol, to clapping my hands when that light bulb of his goes off... The strength and determination of Ceara is inspiring... To be able to accept all that she is and to know @ such a young age who she is IS amazing, to know I was sooo excited to be one of the ones that got their response in on time to get an advanced copy of this book...I admit I did my happy dance in the street lol...I Had a whole range of emotions from wanting to yell @ Quincy and telling him to get his head out of his buttocks, lol, to clapping my hands when that light bulb of his goes off... The strength and determination of Ceara is inspiring... To be able to accept all that she is and to know @ such a young age who she is IS amazing, to know what these to people have to do to come together is not only mind boggling but a whole other wide range of emotions...I admit I not only laughed but cried as I read their story...... this is a definite must read!!!I absolutely LOVED THIS BOOK!!! It's well above the 5 stars I rated it!!!!!! ...more I loved this book! Finally Quincy gets a wife and ain't she perfect for him! I love how she brings out all the love in Quincy. It might have been a little different then any kind of book Catherine Anderson has wrote it fits right in with the series. I laughed I cried I laughed some more and I smiled like a fool during the whole book I love this book. I laugh and cried. It's one of those books you can't put down and will read over and over again. Quincy and Ceara love is eternal. Makes a person believe in magic and true love. would give it 10 stars. I was privileged to be asked to read an advance copy of this latest book by Ms. Anderson, and I am equally privileged to be able to post a review of it. Ms. Anderson has another hit on her hands! As all of her stories have done, Perfect Timing brought out all of my emotions while reading it. I laughed, I cried, I thrilled, I felt affection, felt great pride in this couple\u2019s/family\u2019s faith and loyalty, wondered at the mastery of Ms. Anderson\u2019s weaving together of myth and reality, and felt joy an I was privileged to be asked to read an advance copy of this latest book by Ms. Anderson, and I am equally privileged to be able to post a review of it. Ms. Anderson has another hit on her hands! As all of her stories have done, Perfect Timing brought out all of my emotions while reading it. I laughed, I cried, I thrilled, I felt affection, felt great pride in this couple\u2019s/family\u2019s faith and loyalty, wondered at the mastery of Ms. Anderson\u2019s weaving together of myth and reality, and felt joy and sadness both when the story ended. I just can\u2019t say enough about Ms. Anderson\u2019s stories and this one in particular. Ceara and Quincy grabbed my heart and didn\u2019t let go of it a single word from beginning to end. Merged review: I was privileged to be asked to read an advance copy of this latest book by Ms. Anderson, and I am equally privileged to be able to post a review of it. Ms. Anderson has another hit on her hands! As all of her stories have done, Perfect Timing brought out all of my emotions while reading it. I laughed, I cried, I thrilled, I felt affection, felt great pride in this couple\u2019s/family\u2019s faith and loyalty, wondered at the mastery of Ms. Anderson\u2019s weaving together of myth and reality, and felt joy and sadness both when the story ended. I just can\u2019t say enough about Ms. Anderson\u2019s stories and this one in particular. Ceara and Quincy grabbed my heart and didn\u2019t let go of it a single word from beginning to end. ...more Catherine Anderson is an amazing author. She invites you into her stories and you don't want them to end. At first, Perfect Timing was a little hard for me to believe, it didn't take long though to realize that love, faith and happiness is a little magical. That if you believe, miracles can and do happen every day. In this book I love the family dinamics and the faith in God and one another. I was so very excited to recieve this book early to review and I was not disappointed. I have read all 11 Catherine Anderson is an amazing author. She invites you into her stories and you don't want them to end. At first, Perfect Timing was a little hard for me to believe, it didn't take long though to realize that love, faith and happiness is a little magical. That if you believe, miracles can and do happen every day. In this book I love the family dinamics and the faith in God and one another. I was so very excited to recieve this book early to review and I was not disappointed. I have read all 11 books and know there is another story out there for the Kendrick/Coulter/Harrigan clan. If you haven't read the series, don't waste another minute, pick them up and you too will become part of this family. ...more Being a huge fan of all of Catherine Anderson\u2019s books, \u201cBaby Love\u201d being my first and favorite, I have to say she has done her best work in \u201cPerfect Timing\u201d. With a few minor understandings of Gaelic words and meanings, Quincy\u2019s story is written with such thought and heart that you can\u2019t help but fall in love with her characters. In the beginning things happened kind of fast and I was worried at how Catherine was going to keep the story going to the end, but my worries were for naught. Catheri Being a huge fan of all of Catherine Anderson\u2019s books, \u201cBaby Love\u201d being my first and favorite, I have to say she has done her best work in \u201cPerfect Timing\u201d. With a few minor understandings of Gaelic words and meanings, Quincy\u2019s story is written with such thought and heart that you can\u2019t help but fall in love with her characters. In the beginning things happened kind of fast and I was worried at how Catherine was going to keep the story going to the end, but my worries were for naught. Catherine continues to make you smile, laugh, sit on the edge of your seat and even cry when you least expect it. To me, Perfect Timing is my new \u201cfavorite\u201d. Kudos Catherine! ...more Lucky Me! I was selected to receive an early copy of Perfect Timing! This book totally got me. Understand that I am a huge Catherine Anderson fan, but I read a lot of other authors too. This story--we'll, sometimes it takes me days to finish a book. When I started this one, I couldn't stop reading. The twists and turns, the magic, the warmth and realness of the Harrigan family, and the brilliance of this writer's talent with words to draw images in the mind, completely pulled me in. Lost sleep f Lucky Me! I was selected to receive an early copy of Perfect Timing! This book totally got me. Understand that I am a huge Catherine Anderson fan, but I read a lot of other authors too. This story--we'll, sometimes it takes me days to finish a book. When I started this one, I couldn't stop reading. The twists and turns, the magic, the warmth and realness of the Harrigan family, and the brilliance of this writer's talent with words to draw images in the mind, completely pulled me in. Lost sleep for work the next day to finish this novel. I didn't think Catherine Anderson's books could ever get better, but in Perfect Timing, Anderson did it! This story totally ROCKS! ...more I was fortunate enough to receive an advance copy of \"Perfect Timing\" in order to review it. When the book opened, I was a bit surprised because it dealt with elements that Catherine Anderson doesn't normally use in her plots. But in only a few pages, I was hooked!!! This is one the best books I've ever read!!! Fabulous. From the first page to the last, I was captivated. Could NOT put it down. If you are looking for a book that will tug at all of your emotions, make you laugh, bring a tear to yo I was fortunate enough to receive an advance copy of \"Perfect Timing\" in order to review it. When the book opened, I was a bit surprised because it dealt with elements that Catherine Anderson doesn't normally use in her plots. But in only a few pages, I was hooked!!! This is one the best books I've ever read!!! Fabulous. From the first page to the last, I was captivated. Could NOT put it down. If you are looking for a book that will tug at all of your emotions, make you laugh, bring a tear to your eye, make you sigh with satisfaction, and then want to read it all over again, you should read Perfect Timing. ...more First off I just wanted to say I love Catherine Anderson books. So I was super excited when I got the chance to read Perfect Timing before its released date for honest review. Perfect timing is a little different than Mrs. Anderson usual novels this story has magic and time travel in it. I absolutely loved this story! You dynamic relationship of Harrigan family that we all love. The relationship between Quincy and Ceara is endearing they made me fall in love with them. It made me crack up in so First off I just wanted to say I love Catherine Anderson books. So I was super excited when I got the chance to read Perfect Timing before its released date for honest review. Perfect timing is a little different than Mrs. Anderson usual novels this story has magic and time travel in it. I absolutely loved this story! You dynamic relationship of Harrigan family that we all love. The relationship between Quincy and Ceara is endearing they made me fall in love with them. It made me crack up in so many places. It was sad to see the series end but what a great way to end the series! ...more I was blessed to recieve this book in advance. Another Great read by Catherine Anderson!!!! In a way I almost felt sorry for Quincy, ALMOST I do admit at the beginning you get very frustrated at Quincy because he is SO stubborn, which is where I was at. I also laughed throughout the ENTIRE book, and cried. Once again it is Catherine Anderson at her best! I couldn't put it down. I am glad to be part of her review team. She showed family unity at its best! Everyone pulled together for not only Loni I was blessed to recieve this book in advance. Another Great read by Catherine Anderson!!!! In a way I almost felt sorry for Quincy, ALMOST I do admit at the beginning you get very frustrated at Quincy because he is SO stubborn, which is where I was at. I also laughed throughout the ENTIRE book, and cried. Once again it is Catherine Anderson at her best! I couldn't put it down. I am glad to be part of her review team. She showed family unity at its best! Everyone pulled together for not only Loni but Ceara. This book shows that with a little faith ANYTHING is possible. While in the beginning Quincy was stubborn about the how and why Ceara came to be there. He finally came to realize all it takes is a little faith. ...more I was blessed to recieve an advance copy of this book. This is Catherine Anderson at her best. I laughed, I cried but mainly I could NOT put this one down! If there was a rating higher than 5 stars this book would have earned it hands down. loved it. it fit well with the rest of the books. I laughed and cried. The ending was great I am glad Quincy found his love. Without doubt Anderson's finest book to date. \"Perfect Timing\" is a deeply emotional read, one that will pull the reader right in and not let go until they've pulled an all-nighter without realizing it. It has it all...tragedy, mystery, breathtaking romance, and the beautifully drawn characters that populate all of this stellar author's works. As with all of Anderson's books, even the minor characters are portrayed with a clarity and warmth that make you feel you could live next door to them or Without doubt Anderson's finest book to date. \"Perfect Timing\" is a deeply emotional read, one that will pull the reader right in and not let go until they've pulled an all-nighter without realizing it. It has it all...tragedy, mystery, breathtaking romance, and the beautifully drawn characters that populate all of this stellar author's works. As with all of Anderson's books, even the minor characters are portrayed with a clarity and warmth that make you feel you could live next door to them or meet them in the grocery store checkout line. This is the final book in the Harrigan/Kendrick/Coulter series, and it's the place to catch up with characters in previous books that you've come to know and love. The family interaction is beautifully done, and Anderson's humor is readily apparent in the zingers she tosses in all through the book. \"Perfect Timing\" will have you laughing, crying, and gasping. At the end, the reader will have a sense of joy and rightness that is uplifting, and what more can one ask of a good read? Highly recommended as a 5 star review and a keeper. ...more I received an advanced copy of this book and finished it very quickly. I could not put it down once I started reading. Perfect Timing was heartwarming, funny, and sad. It had me laughing out loud and crying at other times. I have been a Catherine Anderson fan for many years and was sad to see the last Harrigan book come about, but I am sure I'll be visiting the family again. I don't want to give the story away because I don't like when people do that to me. So, let me just say that Ceara is just I received an advanced copy of this book and finished it very quickly. I could not put it down once I started reading. Perfect Timing was heartwarming, funny, and sad. It had me laughing out loud and crying at other times. I have been a Catherine Anderson fan for many years and was sad to see the last Harrigan book come about, but I am sure I'll be visiting the family again. I don't want to give the story away because I don't like when people do that to me. So, let me just say that Ceara is just as strong as the other women Catherine has introduced us to and Quincy, who thinks he is just marrying her to save his sister-in-law, finds out that he has no choice but to fall in love with the woman that had Perfect Timing. You will enjoy the hens and all of the antics between Ceara and...Quincy's kitchen appliances. Enjoy! ...more I received an advanced copy of Perfect Timing. This book is Wonderful, Imaginative, Beautiful, Heartwarming, and Magical. Catherine had me from the First Chapter until the the very last. I hated for it to end. I laughed, I cried, I laughed some more then I cried some more. Catherine's books make you believe in the power of Love and that it transcends time and space. I read this book in one day because I couldn't put it down. I read it while cooking, eating, even took a bath instead of a shower s I received an advanced copy of Perfect Timing. This book is Wonderful, Imaginative, Beautiful, Heartwarming, and Magical. Catherine had me from the First Chapter until the the very last. I hated for it to end. I laughed, I cried, I laughed some more then I cried some more. Catherine's books make you believe in the power of Love and that it transcends time and space. I read this book in one day because I couldn't put it down. I read it while cooking, eating, even took a bath instead of a shower so that I could keep reading it. Then I waited a couple of days picked it up again and took my time, I took three days to read it and I fell more in love with Quincy and Ceara than I did the first time. The way she describes the Ranch, Ceara, and the dogs it's like actually being there and seeing it through their eyes. I think Catherine has another New York Times Bestseller!!!! ...more I received an advance copy of Perfect Timing for review and ABSOLUTELY LOVED it. I am looking forward to reading more Catherine Anderson books in the very near future! Perfect Timing grabbed me from the first page and had me hooked. I liked the twists and I savored every page. I am calling it a winner! I was lucky enough to get an advanced copy of this wonderful tale by Catherine Anderson. We fell in love with Loni and the other Harrigan wives earlier in this series. They are amazing women with strength and courage who it appears are in danger for their lives. Who can save them...my favorite Harrigan man, Quincy! Quincy is a health nut. He is quirky and funny and Perfect Timing grabbed me from the first page and had me hooked. I liked the twists and I savored every page. I am calling it a winner! I was lucky enough to get an advanced copy of this wonderful tale by Catherine Anderson. We fell in love with Loni and the other Harrigan wives earlier in this series. They are amazing women with strength and courage who it appears are in danger for their lives. Who can save them...my favorite Harrigan man, Quincy! Quincy is a health nut. He is quirky and funny and I fell in love with him earlier in the series too. I couldn't wait to see what kind of woman could catch his eye and how she would deal with his ideas of how to eat. Would she too be a health nut or a junk food junkie?? Catherine Anderson's answer to that was not what I expected and totaly wrapped me up in the tale. If Catherine Anderson isn't on your author list for a heartwarming romance, then you are missing out on one of the best! ...more I was sent an advance copy of this book. I can honestly say this is the best book Ive read in ages, and to wrap up the series this way was ingenious and fun. I picked up the book, started reading around 1pm, stopped only to fix my Hubbys very late dinner, sat back down and didn't get up until done. I called my daughter ASAP, rubbed it in that I got the book first and then said I was done! Since it was very, very, late, she was very, very mad....because it was too late to con itout of me!!!!! The b I was sent an advance copy of this book. I can honestly say this is the best book Ive read in ages, and to wrap up the series this way was ingenious and fun. I picked up the book, started reading around 1pm, stopped only to fix my Hubbys very late dinner, sat back down and didn't get up until done. I called my daughter ASAP, rubbed it in that I got the book first and then said I was done! Since it was very, very, late, she was very, very mad....because it was too late to con itout of me!!!!! The book it heartwrenching, hysterical and very fulfilling. .and...I know where the real Erotuc Parrot just might be....... Thank you, Catherine, for sharing your book with us and the world. Julie P.s. I am one finger typing on my Kindle so forgive all typos please!!!!!!!! ...more", "Title": "Perfect Timing"},
