{"Comments": "You gotta agree - <---A>Stephen King</---A> can tell a story like few others can . Maybe it's because he can see the world in the way most of us do not, and then grants us the privilege to experience it through his eyes for a few hundred pages - the world that can be unsettling and scary and fascinating and different in subtle little ways that change the way you view it - at least for a little while. Add to it that Stephen King also can do nostalgia like no other (well, perhaps excluding Bradbury - and there You gotta agree - Stephen King can tell a story like few others can . Maybe it's because he can see the world in the way most of us do not, and then grants us the privilege to experience it through his eyes for a few hundred pages - the world that can be unsettling and scary and fascinating and different in subtle little ways that change the way you view it - at least for a little while. Add to it that Stephen King also can do nostalgia like no other (well, perhaps excluding Bradbury - and there are very Bradbury-esque notes in this book about a carnival an amusement park) - nostalgia not really for a specific place or a specific time period but rather for being young and idealistic and resilient and yet fragile, cynical and innocent at the same time; making the readers long for something they have all experienced or will yet experience - even if their own experiences were (or will be) nothing like what King talks about. It's really the longing for youth from the distance of years,<---M> wistful and melancholic</---M>, seen through the sharp and yet distorted lenses of a few decades passed, with the hope and bittersweetness and gentle quiet regret that such look into the long-ago can bring; the glance into the time that seemed simpler and more innocent because you back then were simpler and more innocent and vulnerable yourself. \"When you're twenty-one, life is a roadmap. It's only when you get to be twenty-five or so that you begin to suspect you've been looking at the map upside down, and not until you're forty are you entirely sure. By the time you're sixty, take it from me, you're fucking lost.\" And add to it his knack for truly fantastic, amazing characterization , creating in the pages of his stories people that are alive, real, recognizable (for better or for worse); characters that inhabit the settings that with a few casual phrases turn hauntingly real, come alive from the paperback pages - and here, dear reader, we have <+++>Joyland</+++> . \"That fall was the most beautiful of my life. Even forty years later I can say that. And I was never so unhappy, I can say that, too.\" Devin Jones is a poor college student with a newly broken heart and \"such a really bad case of the twenty-ones\" , taking up a summer job at <+++>Joyland</+++> amusement park in North Carolina in the time when banning smoking at such venues was a strange new thing. He is young, charmingly naive, and unhappy - and a carny life could do him some good (granted, this life, unbeknownst to him, also comes with an old unsolved murder mystery and some ghosts, and a kid with supernatural ability, and a deranged mysterious serial killer) . It's a setup for a coming-of-age story, a few life-changing months that are impossible to forget - and such it is (but a *King* version - think 'The Body' rather than 'David Copperfield ), but told by King in his trademark casual 'Uncle Stevie' voice full of effortless grasp of perfect storytelling it grows and comes to life. And suddenly we can see and hear the hot summer days, and the creaking of the giant Ferris wheel operated by the friendly Lane Hardy, and the happy screams of children as Howie the Hound (played with unexpected happiness by a twenty-one-year-old unhappy and brooding kid in his spare time listening to The Doors and entertaining suicidal thoughts while nursing his first real heartbreak) , and the shrieks coming from the Horror House - rumored to be haunted by a girl with a blue Alice band - manned by a surly Eddie Parks who always wears gloves, even in summer heat, and the happy barks of a dog and happy voice of a young boy watching the kite fly up into the sky, and a kiss from a lovely girl who is no more than a friend, and the groaning of the Spin in the storm, and the eyes of a maniac, and beach fire and beer and smores, and the excited buzz of the crowds in Joyland - an amusement park (or, really, more of an overgrown carnival that knows it has not that much longer left) that, after all, as its owner knows very well, sells fun. And we see the humanity of his characters shine like you wouldn't believe. \"All I can say is what you already know: some days are treasure. Not many, but I think in almost every life there are a few. That was one of mine, and when I'm blue -- when life comes down on me and everything looks tawdry and cheap, the way Joyland Avenue did on a rainy day -- I go back to it, if only to remind myself that life isn't always a butcher's game.<---F> Sometimes the prizes are real</---F>. Sometimes they are precious.\" Joyland appears to have been presented as a crime story, a noir novel complete with a cover (a redheaded bombshell in a skimpy green dress, eyes wide and mouth open in an exaggerated shocked surprise) that is designed to help it seamlessly blend in with other occupants of a gas station cheap paperback rack. But it's not a crime noir story, nossir, trust me. And it's not a 'typical' King novel in a way media and those only marginally familiar with King think of his works. But, on the other hand, it is a 'classic' King, really - the one who has penned Shawshank and The Body and The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon and 11/22/63 - the one who transcends his pidgeonholed role as the King of Horror, the one who knows that it's the depths of the human nature that make life both terrifying and wonderful, the one who takes the trip down the Memory Lane and brings us a story of people being shaped by seemingly small events that happen around them. And this is the thing about this book - it's not about the horror (there's none; the scary things are the everyday things that happen to people - death, loss, loneliness) or the mystery (the murder story is pushed so far into the background it almost fades out of sight) or the supernatural (it's hiding in the background right next to murder mystery) . It's simply a book about people. It's about getting into Devin Jones's head (metaphorically, of course) and taking a life experience alongside him through the eyes of his older self, seeing him change and grow a bit at a time, and missing a part of us we left behind when we had to grow up, too. At under 300 pages, this book is a tiny offering compared to King's as of late habitual door-stoppers, and it could have easily been developed more, stretched out to greater lengths and depths exploring the paranormal bits that have largely taken the backseat, exploring more of Mike and <---C>Annie</---C>'s stories, bringing the murder mystery closer to the forefront, exploring more of the noir-ish promise the purposefully tacky book cover promised. Yes, it could have done all of that in the \"usual\" King fashion, yes. But you know what? I'm glad he left it at this compact size, choosing instead to simply focus on a story of a young unhappy man coming into his own over a few months in the shadow of an amusement park where they \"sell fun\", playing Howie the Happy Hound on suffocatingly hot summer days (fifteen-minute shifts only!), looking at the world from the top of the Spin, thinking about the ghost in the Horror House while nursing his broken heart the way only the young can, flying a kite once a while, and all throughout going through the little subtle changes that bring you into the rest of your life, into adulthood, away from Joyland, into a world with sharp edges and hard corners. \"When it comes to the past, *everyone* writes fiction.\" ***** True, but few can do it as scarily well as King. Fantastic. Almost perfect. And you don't even have to be a fan to appreciate it. Trust me. ...more If I ever were to meet Stephen King, I imagine that the conversation would go something like this: A: Mr. King, what a pleasure it is to meet you. I\u2019m glad to have this opportunity because I owe you an apology. SK: An apology? We don\u2019t even know each other. Why would you need to apologize to me? A: I\u2019m sorry for avoiding your books all of these years and for thinking that you were a one dimensional author who only wrote horror stories. I\u2019m sorry that it took me so long to discover your wonderful wr If I ever were to meet Stephen King, I imagine that the conversation would go something like this: A: Mr. King, what a pleasure it is to meet you. I\u2019m glad to have this opportunity because I owe you an apology. SK: An apology? We don\u2019t even know each other. Why would you need to apologize to me? A: I\u2019m sorry for avoiding your books all of these years and for thinking that you were a one dimensional author who only wrote horror stories. I\u2019m sorry that it took me so long to discover your wonderful writing and that you didn\u2019t write just horror stories. SK: How did you come to that revelation? A: It was in 2011, when I read some wonderful reviews about your new book 11/22/63. It was so appealing to me \u2013 a time travel story about saving President Kennedy. So I read my first book by you and fell in love with your writing, with the story and with Jake. It wasn\u2019t just about the possibility of saving JFK, it was a beautiful love story. SK: So glad to hear that you enjoyed 11/22/63. A: I owe you another apology for waiting three years to read another one of your books. I have just read Joyland and once again love the story and the characters. I have to admit I was a bit hesitant to read it \u2013 it\u2019s a mystery and a bit of a ghost story and I am not really a fan of those kinds of books. But this story is about much more than that. It\u2019s about young man who learns a lot about life and who he really is; it\u2019s about the first time your heart is broken. It\u2019s about friendship, and an extraordinary little boy named Mike. I felt as if I really knew these people. I want to thank you for taking me to Joyland. I probably won\u2019t read the horror stories, but I am going to make a point of looking for your other books that are not horror stories. Can you forgive me? SK: I\u2019ll have to think about it. A: By the way, I understand that you are a big Red Sox fan. Me,too! I lived outside of Boston for several years and even though I don\u2019t live there anymore, I\u2019m still a big fan. SK: A Red Sox fan, huh? Okay , I forgive you. A: Thank you so much, Mr. King ...more There\u2019s a ghost that appears in the haunted house ride of an amusement park in the 1970s? Jinkies! Is this a Hard Case Crime book or an episode of Scooby-Doo ? Actually, it\u2019s a Stephen King novel. And as we found out the last time Uncle Stevie wrote a book for the HCC line he doesn\u2019t have a problem with blurring the line between crime and supernatural. Since HCC needs all the help it can get I\u2019m pretty sure nobody bitched too much when he turned this one in. Devin Jones is a struggling college kid There\u2019s a ghost that appears in the haunted house ride of an amusement park in the 1970s? Jinkies! Is this a Hard Case Crime book or an episode of Scooby-Doo ? Actually, it\u2019s a Stephen King novel. And as we found out the last time Uncle Stevie wrote a book for the HCC line he doesn\u2019t have a problem with blurring the line between crime and supernatural. Since HCC needs all the help it can get I\u2019m pretty sure nobody bitched too much when he turned this one in. Devin Jones is a struggling college kid looking for a summer job in 1973, and he lands a position at Joyland, a third rate amusement park in North Carolina. Poor Devin gets dumped by his first love shortly after starting work, and he spends a good part of the summer brooding over his broken heart. But it\u2019s not all bad. Devin enjoys the atmosphere at Joyland which is populated with colorful carnies who show him the ropes, and he manages to make some friends as well as develop a talent for entertaining kids. The park has a dark side in its haunted house where a young woman was once murdered, and her killer was never caught. Some claim to have seen her ghostly form. Zoinks! As a Stephen King story this is pretty good. It\u2019s told from the perspective of older Devin looking back to a summer of his younger days and King has the melancholy tone of faded youth down cold. Devin\u2019s a likable character, and the ghost in the spook house thing isn\u2019t overdone. It mostly hangs in the background as Devin tries to get over being dumped and learning the carnie trade. It\u2019s obvious that the behind-the-scenes stuff at the amusement park is the idea that King really got into and he even goes so far as to create a whole bunch of carnie lingo on top of the actual stuff he used. The early \u201870s setting gives the whole thing a bit of vintage charm although there are more than a few seemingly anachronistic tidbits. Were microwave ovens available and affordable enough then that a kindly landlady would have one? Were fruit smoothies a regular breakfast beverage back then? Wikipedia tells me that it\u2019s possible, but it really doesn\u2019t feel like they\u2019d be commonplace. Plus, I really had a hard time believing that the owner is so forward thinking as to ban smoking in his amusement park. Devoted Hard Case Crime fans might grumble that this isn\u2019t really a crime story. While Devin is fascinated by the ghost story and has a friend dig up some research on the murder for him there\u2019s really no active effort by him to try and solve the case. It\u2019s really more of a bittersweet coming of age story with a little murder and spooky happenings around the edges and providing a wrap-up. Still, it\u2019s an entertaining tale in an off-beat setting with one of the most famous story tellers of our time. It\u2019d be a great diversion to read while you\u2019re standing in line to get on a rollercoaster. Also posted at Shelf Inflicted . ...more I am not sure what bubble I was living in that I hadn't heard about Stephen King's new book JOYLAND, so it was just luck that the day it was released, I just happened to in the book store browsing. The cover shouted out \"look at meeeee!!!\" I quickly grabbed a copy off the shelf, and thought to myself, \"Mine, mine, mine!\" When I finally got around to reading it, I was not disappointed... [image error] This was one of those Stephen King books that made me feel like I was sitting on the front porch o I am not sure what bubble I was living in that I hadn't heard about Stephen King's new book JOYLAND, so it was just luck that the day it was released, I just happened to in the book store browsing. The cover shouted out \"look at meeeee!!!\" I quickly grabbed a copy off the shelf, and thought to myself, \"Mine, mine, mine!\" When I finally got around to reading it, I was not disappointed... [image error] This was one of those Stephen King books that made me feel like I was sitting on the front porch on a warm Summer night, sipping lemonade, listening to my grandfather/father/or favorite uncle talk about one of the adventures of his youth. JOYLAND is the story- set in the innocent 1970s,- of college student Devin Jones who spends his summer working at an amusement park as he attempts to overcome the crushing blow of his first experience with heartbreak. Along the way he meets an interesting cast of characters, and because this IS of course-a Stephen King novel- he also learns that one of the rides -The House of Horrors- harbors a sinister past, and the ghost of the murdered girl is said to haunt the place. The \u201cFunhouse Killer\u201d was never discovered and Devin becomes curious about her story and is determined to solve the case. This is the perfect book for people that have been thinking about reading Stephen King, but have never wanted to tackle one of his 600+page novels. It is a coming of age story with a mystery, supernatural elements, a little romance, and a main character I was sad to leave behind. ...more JoyLand is a slow burn of a book and that was alright by me. I love getting to know King\u2019s characters and Devin Jones is no exception. He\u2019s our young, intelligent narrator, burning with the passion and enthusiasm of youth; he is also healing a broken heart, his first, when he signs up to work at the carnival. This is a Hard Case Crime file so one would expect a murder or two and there is, except it happened years ago and remains unsolved. While never really taking center stage through most of th JoyLand is a slow burn of a book and that was alright by me. I love getting to know King\u2019s characters and Devin Jones is no exception. He\u2019s our young, intelligent narrator, burning with the passion and enthusiasm of youth; he is also healing a broken heart, his first, when he signs up to work at the carnival. This is a Hard Case Crime file so one would expect a murder or two and there is, except it happened years ago and remains unsolved. While never really taking center stage through most of the book, this crime remains a backdrop to the story being told, one that is never forgotten but somehow seems to thrive in the shade, where Jonesy and his new friends are coming of age: it waits quietly, constantly there, carefully camouflaged in shades of fear. If you are looking for fast paced, adrenaline fuelled horror, look away, but remember this is King, who spins a good yarn and we are at a carnival; you do the math. As for me, like my Doyl every time I get the brush; I lapped up every stroke. And I fell in love with Mike, who wouldn\u2019t? And his little dog Milo too. I like the fact that it was told from a distant perspective, as a recollection of events past, the ones that shaped Dev\u2019s 21st year of life. After all\u2026\u2026\u2026 When it comes to the past, everyone writes fiction. My goodreads friend Brandon Sears, in his review of this same work, says Stephen King is like literary comfort food. I couldn\u2019t agree more, in fact, I wish I\u2019d said that. ...more 4  stars All you King fans out there are going to read this anyway. Go for it, be a *Rube , its worth the price of admission. For anyone else who's curious about all the kerfuffle over King, maybe test the waters with this. No, it\u2019s not his best but it\u2019s pretty great. It\u2019s short, leans towards paranormal rather than horror in case horror isn\u2019t your thing, and you gotta love that hardcore pulp-fiction cover! Tons of suspense, the mystery of beautiful women being murdered to unravel, a plot that mo 4 \u00bd stars All you King fans out there are going to read this anyway. Go for it, be a *Rube , its worth the price of admission. For anyone else who's curious about all the kerfuffle over King, maybe test the waters with this. No, it\u2019s not his best but it\u2019s pretty great. It\u2019s short, leans towards paranormal rather than horror in case horror isn\u2019t your thing, and you gotta love that hardcore pulp-fiction cover! Tons of suspense, the mystery of beautiful women being murdered to unravel, a plot that moves and characters written with sensitivity, you'll care about them. Best of all and the star of this novel though\u2013 a fabulous 70\u2019s Carny setting. * Rubes: Carny lingo for customers, they gotta leave with smiles on their faces. \u201cThey\u2019re rabbits, nice plump fun-loving rabbits, hopping from ride to ride and shy to shy instead of from hole to hole.\u201d Favorite quote: \u201cWhen you\u2019re twenty-one, life is a roadmap. It\u2019s only when you get to be twenty-five or so that you begin to suspect you\u2019ve been looking at the map upside down, and not until you\u2019re forty are you entirely sure. By the time you\u2019re sixty, take it from me, you\u2019re f_cking lost.\u201d Ah The King: Haven\u2019t picked up one of his books in years, guess I overdosed on him when I was younger. He\u2019s improved with age. The same spare style but with more confidence \u2013it\u2019s like the man has reached this point where he\u2019s got nothing to prove to anyone but himself, that he\u2019s still the master at delivering entertaining stories - no literary honours in the cards and he could care less. Keep 'em coming King! Meanderings: I\u2019ve had some interesting jobs (I\u2019ll try anything) Considered applying at the Carny when young, visualized myself working the night shift running the scariest ride on the midway. Something intensely exciting about the lights, the smells, the crush of people \u2013 and that beautiful intermingling of full blast rock 'n roll accompanied by screams of terror. Not sure what stopped me - ended up picking cherries instead...Reading this I got to live that fantasy vicariously. \u201cI\u2019ve done a lot of jobs in the years since then, but I never felt so weirdly happy, so absolutely in-the-right-place, as I did when I was twenty-one, wearing the fur and doing the Hokey Pokey on a hot day in June. Seat of the pants, baby.\u201d ________________________________________ Cover painting by Glen Orbik\u2013 link to the artist\u2019s website \u2013 worth checking out:) \" http://www.orbikart.com/gallery/ \" ...more OMG! I love this King book! I had a feeling I might just from reading the synopsis of the book. It just blew me away! I loved the atmosphere of the carnival. I fell in love with Devin, Tom, Erin, Mike, Milo, Annie and a few other side characters. I felt like I was in the book with each one of them and I could see all of the old carny rides and amusements. I could feel the old mystery of the girl that was killed. I wish they would make this into a movie, but do it right! It as to be to a T from t OMG! I love this King book! I had a feeling I might just from reading the synopsis of the book. It just blew me away! I loved the atmosphere of the carnival. I fell in love with Devin, Tom, Erin, Mike, Milo, Annie and a few other side characters. I felt like I was in the book with each one of them and I could see all of the old carny rides and amusements. I could feel the old mystery of the girl that was killed. I wish they would make this into a movie, but do it right! It as to be to a T from the book and it has to have the old time feel when you walk inside the carnival gates. I'm soooooo glad Dev got over that jerk Wendy. She was a right ass-hat! But he met so many good friends at the carnival. Oh and I forgot to mention I loved his dad, he was so sweet. I wish he could have come and seen him up at the carnival. I'm glad Dev took a little time off college to stay at the carnival and get closer to the people he needed to get closer to. It was a turning point in his and a few other lives in the book. I didn't think the killer was who it turned out to be, but I kept thinking it was someone close. I'm not giving away that spoiler!! I cried at the end. OMG! It was so bittersweet. I'm not giving away that spoiler either. I have to say this is going into one of my favorite books sections. I just have my reasons. It's damn good. MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List ...more Written for the Hard Case Crime line of paperback novels, Stephen King's Joyland may look like a duck -- with its tantalizing pulp cover making promises of sex and violence -- but it definitely doesn't quack. In fact, it's another kind of animal altogether, a coming of age tale tinged with the bittersweet tang of nostalgia and the wistful remembrances of what was and what might have been. This isn't new territory for King. Anyone who's read him at all knows that this is his stomping ground and w Written for the Hard Case Crime line of paperback novels, Stephen King's Joyland may look like a duck -- with its tantalizing pulp cover making promises of sex and violence -- but it definitely doesn't quack. In fact, it's another kind of animal altogether, a coming of age tale tinged with the bittersweet tang of nostalgia and the wistful remembrances of what was and what might have been. This isn't new territory for King. Anyone who's read him at all knows that this is his stomping ground and when he's firing on all cylinders, nobody does it better . It isn't done badly here either (there are some great passages filled with humor and insight), it's just that the effort and subsequent result feel lackluster overall. The characters are fleshed out just enough to move the story along and give King some hooks to hang his \"looking back on it now\" philosophizing, but stacked up against King's pantheon of memorable characters, the ones found in the pages of Joyland are easily forgotten (at least by me). I almost think this little book suffers from the schism of an identity crisis. King has in his hands a paranormal crime plot replete with a garish 1970's amusement park setting haunted by the ghost of a murdered young woman. This being Hard Case Crime , I was keen to get King's take on hard-boiled noir or just full on pulp. I looked forward to sensationalist violence, cheap thrills and snappy, stylistic dialogue (and no, sorry Uncle Stevie, but you don't win any points for injecting the patter of carny speak on every other page). King can't stop himself from telling an entirely different kind of story about a young man with a broken heart and his extended summer spent growing up and getting on. It's a story of emotions and memories and the metaphor of a flying kite and the panoramic view from a giant Ferris wheel. It's 80% middle-aged navel-gazing and youthful angst. The other 20% consisting of uncovering the identity of a murderous predator and revealing the details behind a haunting feel tacked on as afterthoughts. In this case, for Hard Case, I would have much rather seen those ratios reversed. Another problem I had (view spoiler) [was the kid in the wheelchair. His second sight ability struck me as too deus ex machina serving no other purpose really other than to save our hero at the last minute from certain death (I also felt the kid was just a pale knock-off of Danny Torrence). If Joyland had turned out to be a full on hyper-dramatized pulp novel, a kid character such as this could have probably fit right in and worked. But the majority of the story is ponderous and beautiful and as a plot device, the second sight stands out like a sore thumb. (hide spoiler) ] Still, while it wasn't the novel I wanted or expected, Joyland is a sweet story, a little maudlin in places, but enjoyable nevertheless. Constant Readers will take pleasure in immersing themselves for a little while in a Kingscape that feels both familiar and satisfying. It's good people, it's just not all that it's quacked up to be. This review has also been posted to Busty Book Bimbo ...more Now I know how Neil DeGrasse Tyson felt while he watched the movie Gravity. I give Joyland three stars as far as story goes, and a one star when I take into consideration that Stephen got everything wrong about how amusement parks are run. He obviously did zero research. The most believable thing in this book is the ghost part, but I know the vast majority of you out there did not spend twenty odd years hopping around the United States working in amusement parks like I did, and therefore would no Now I know how Neil DeGrasse Tyson felt while he watched the movie Gravity. I give Joyland three stars as far as story goes, and a one star when I take into consideration that Stephen got everything wrong about how amusement parks are run. He obviously did zero research. The most believable thing in this book is the ghost part, but I know the vast majority of you out there did not spend twenty odd years hopping around the United States working in amusement parks like I did, and therefore would not be bothered by the stuff that bugged me, but damn it, he couldn\u2019t have asked a question or two?? College student Devin Jones finds himself at loose ends at the close of the school year in 1973. He finds a job at a small amusement park in an equally small town in North Carolina in which he does every job in the park (insane). While running around like a mad man doing all the jobs, he finds that he also has to add \u2018ghost hunter\u2019 to the list while he was doing \u2018something\u2019 in the haunted house ride. He meets a MILF that has a disabled son and a very cute Jack Russell and mom is a sharp shooter that won the big shooting competition at Camp Perry in Port Clinton, Ohio. I find this interesting because Camp Perry is 15 minutes from my house, it really does exist, so he got that right, and there really is a big shooting completion held there. Now I\u2019m going to rant about stuff you probably don\u2019t care about. But I have to do it. I\u2019m sorry. If Stephen had set this in a carnival all would have been fine, but amusement parks are not carnivals. College students DO work at amusement parks, old carnies do not. People who work in A.P. do not have a special lingo. A.P. s have departments. Merchandise, ride operators, food, maintenance, finance, concessionaires, ride maintenance\u2026.ect. When a person is hired for the season, they are put into a department and they remain within it. I know Stephen went on the same assumption that most people do, and that is when a person is hired into an amusement park that person jumps around to all the jobs in the park from day to day. One day you\u2019re drawing caricatures, the next you are running a roller coaster, followed by making corn dogs the next\u2026..what? I know most people think this is the case because I would get asked the question \u201cSo, is this the only place you work? or do you move around the park and run the rides and stuff?\u201d Several times a day, every day. I don\u2019t get it, but I can forgive the masses for thinking this, but not Stephen King. Research. Costume characters do not go out without a guide person. Vision is quite limited in those giant heads. Without someone to lead them, those creepy characters could take out a kid or ten. Also, getting hit in the nether regions is a common occurrence; they need someone to watch out for possible injuries. A front gate photo person (Hollywood girls) would quit their job within an hour if forced to wear high heels whilst standing on concrete in the boiling hell of North Carolina in the summer time. Then she would put said heel in her managers\u2019 eye on the way out of park. Besides, the photographic technology did not exist for such an operation in 1973. A non smoking park in North Carolina (especially) wouldn't have existed in 1973. If it did, it would die. Seasonal amusement parks did not remain open on weekends past Labor Day (especially the small ones) in 1973. Not being a Disney or a Cedar Point, they were not destination parks, so there was no point. Only when the Halloween Weekends (spooky themed weekends) became all the rage did staying open until the end of October became the norm. That started in the early 2000\u2019s. (view spoiler) [Parks, no matter the size, have gates that are locked up tight at night and there is always security on duty. There is no way a strange person could just drive onto the property and shoot at a person on a ride (that is all lit up and running) without getting noticed. (hide spoiler) ] I'm very disappointed. *Sigh*\u2026.I\u2019m sure there was more, but rant over. Stephanie out. ...more I've been reading Stephen King since I was a child and this book reminds me of his old stuff. It's really good. On the heels of a breakup, college student Devin Jones takes a summer job at an amusement park, an amusement park haunted by the ghost of a woman murdered on one of the rides. But what does that have to do with a woman and her dying child that Devin meets walking on a beach? Stephen King throws the Hard Case line another bone with Joyland. Much like The Colorado Kid, it will undoubtedly draw much needed attention to the line despite not being like the other books. Joyland is the story of Devin Jon On the heels of a breakup, college student Devin Jones takes a summer job at an amusement park, an amusement park haunted by the ghost of a woman murdered on one of the rides. But what does that have to do with a woman and her dying child that Devin meets walking on a beach? Stephen King throws the Hard Case line another bone with Joyland. Much like The Colorado Kid, it will undoubtedly draw much needed attention to the line despite not being like the other books. Joyland is the story of Devin Jones trying to get his shit together after being dumped by his girlfriend. What better way to do that than to slave away at a carnival for 12 hours a day? Once Devin learns of the murder, he starts investigating. Well, the investigation is incidental. Mostly he works at the carnival, saving a couple lives along the way and meeting a kid with muscular dystrophy that he takes a liking to, as well as his foxy young mother. Stephen King's writing is firing on all cylinders in this one and it's a relief that he wrote a story that's less than 800 pages for once. There are some anachronisms but they didn't yank me out of the story. I thought I knew who the killer was but King managed to pull the rug out from under me just before the big reveal. I liked Devin a lot. He felt like an authentic 21 year old to me, something that a lot of writers can't seem to do. He was also pretty relatable. I think I had an early onset of the 21's and it lasted until I was about 24. A quick side note: I like that King named a traveling circus after Manly Wade Wellman. I wonder how many people caught that reference. The only gripe I have with this book is that it doesn't feel like a Hard Case. However, since it will let Hard Case keep the lights on for quite a while with the money it brings in, I'll let Uncle Steve off with a warning this time. Three stars. ...more 4\u2605 Stephen King wrote this for the Hard Case Crime series which seeks to recreate the flavor of paperback hardboiled crime fiction novels of the 1940s and 50s. Each cover features original cover art in the grand pulp style. There is an unsolved crime, a previous murder in the horror house, but it wasn\u2019t what I thought it would be. The entire time I was reading it I was back at Pacific Ocean Park in Venice Beach California during the 1950/60s. Big mistake eating right before I went on the roller-co 4\u2605 Stephen King wrote this for the Hard Case Crime series which seeks to recreate the flavor of paperback hardboiled crime fiction novels of the 1940s and 50s. Each cover features original cover art in the grand pulp style. There is an unsolved crime, a previous murder in the horror house, but it wasn\u2019t what I thought it would be. The entire time I was reading it I was back at Pacific Ocean Park in Venice Beach California during the 1950/60s. Big mistake eating right before I went on the roller-coaster! Fair to say if you really want to be scared or creeped out this won\u2019t do it for you. What you will get is excellent writing, main characters that you will really like, and the general feel-good nostalgia of a warm summer day at an amusement park on the pier back in the day. I completely enjoyed the ride. ...more This is only the second Stephen King book I've ever read, other than The Stand . I just don't do horror, as a general rule. But then this came out, and it was a mystery, or at least marketed as such, and so I figured I'd give it a try. It isn't really about the mystery, though, and others have noted it. There is a mystery, sure. The main character works at Joyland, an amusement (not theme - King is careful about the difference) park one summer in the 1970s. Several years earlier, a girl had been m This is only the second Stephen King book I've ever read, other than The Stand . I just don't do horror, as a general rule. But then this came out, and it was a mystery, or at least marketed as such, and so I figured I'd give it a try. It isn't really about the mystery, though, and others have noted it. There is a mystery, sure. The main character works at Joyland, an amusement (not theme - King is careful about the difference) park one summer in the 1970s. Several years earlier, a girl had been murdered on one of the rides, and her ghost still appears to be around. And by the end, whodunit is revealed. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more Update: 99 cent special today!!!!! Irresistible!!! On the back of the bright yellow @ red paperback book by Stephen King, *JOYLAND*, [smack center in RED INK], are the words: \"Life is Not always a Butcher's Game Sometimes the Prizes Are Real Sometimes They're Precious\" ..... If you've NOT read this WONDERFUL-TREAT-yet --those words above will 'not' have the same 'feeling' to you until you get to page 220 --and read them 'again'. (I dare any human being not to be moved)! To NOT read this book (heck, tak Update: 99 cent special today!!!!! Irresistible!!! On the back of the bright yellow @ red paperback book by Stephen King, *JOYLAND*, [smack center in RED INK], are the words: \"Life is Not always a Butcher's Game Sometimes the Prizes Are Real Sometimes They're Precious\" ..... If you've NOT read this WONDERFUL-TREAT-yet --those words above will 'not' have the same 'feeling' to you until you get to page 220 --and read them 'again'. (I dare any human being not to be moved)! To NOT read this book (heck, takes only a few hours of your time?) -- would be like... 1) never having walked barefoot in the sand on the beach. 2) never having hugged a friend 3) never once baked cookies 4) never once soaked in a hot tub ...more In early 2014 the wonderful podcast Pod of Horror (run by mastermind Mark Justice) announced its list of the top three novels of 2013. One of my books (I won't say which one now, because this bit is just preamble, and the review I'm writing isn't about my own novel) clocked in at #3. Number two on the list was Bentley Little's THE INFLUENCE, and though I hadn't (and still haven't, if I'm being honest) read Little's book, I'm familiar with Little's writing and was delighted to be included on the In early 2014 the wonderful podcast Pod of Horror (run by mastermind Mark Justice) announced its list of the top three novels of 2013. One of my books (I won't say which one now, because this bit is just preamble, and the review I'm writing isn't about my own novel) clocked in at #3. Number two on the list was Bentley Little's THE INFLUENCE, and though I hadn't (and still haven't, if I'm being honest) read Little's book, I'm familiar with Little's writing and was delighted to be included on the same list as he was. When I learned that Pod of Horror named Stephen King's JOYLAND the best horror novel of 2013, I wasn't at all surprised. Mr. King is my favorite writer by a huge margin. Not only is he the reason I became a writer--he's the reason I became a reader. It was a thrill to share a list with him. Why, you might ask, do I mention all the above? To draw attention to my own writing? To publicize the Pod of Horror podcast? To exercise my fingers by typing extraneous keystrokes? No. I share all that because I was incredibly honored to be uttered in the same breath with my writing hero, and I HADN'T EVEN READ THIS NOVEL YET. But I read JOYLAND last week. Boy, did I ever. And now that I've read it, how do I feel? Folks, some books are really, really good. Other books are darn near amazing. But sometimes you encounter the rare book that is absolutely transporting, the kind of story with which you fall in love and wish would never end. That's JOYLAND. Some folks say King's best works were written in the seventies. When you're as successful as he is, that criticism is bound to creep up. If I were to honestly rate the fifty-five or so King books I've read, sure, several of the highest picks would come from his early days (particularly 'SALEM's LOT, THE STAND, and THE DEAD ZONE). But JOYLAND further confirms what I've suspected since being throttled by FULL DARK, NO STARS, mesmerized by THE WIND THROUGH THE KEYHOLE, and waylaid by UNDER THE DOME: Stephen King is still improving. JOYLAND features some of his strongest, most nuanced characterization ever; a setting so vivid I can still smell the confections and the inside of the dog suit; a plot so elegantly constructed that I'm still holding it up to the light to look for the slightest fissure; and an ending so perfect and poignant that my Kindle screen became a blur. I don't mind it when folks criticize Stephen King. I used to, not because I don't respect others' opinions, but due to the fact that Mr. King's writing has meant so much to me on a personal level. But I don't get offended anymore. Because as crazy and as Annie Wilkes-ish as this sounds, I know where Stephen King stands in my life, and I'm secure in the unspoken covenant that we share as author and reader. I know that Mr. King will enthrall me again and again with his rare and beautiful gift (as well as his unparalleled endurance and work ethic). I know that he will reveal some new truth to me, or at least remind me of something I've forgotten (because he writes the truest lies in fiction). And I know that he will respect me and my ability to think, which is why he transformed me from a fourteen-year-old kid who thought he was stupid into a fourteen-year-old kid who realized he was smarter than he thought he was. It turned out that kid just needed to read the right books. I'll wrap this up by declaring that JOYLAND is a work of art. Like the best stories of Ray Bradbury (DANDELION WINE, \"The Rocket,\" FAHRENHEIT 451), there is wonder in this book. There is love. And though it hurts my heart, I'm still watching that kite rise higher into the Carolina sky. ...more You can't save everyone. I was tempted to add some new category shelves for this review because the ones I am using don't quite fit the type of retro-reflective, not-really-coming-of-age-but-more-of-a-late-blooming type of read which I experienced. Maybe I should add crime or murder or something, but if I said this was a crime novel, or even a murder mystery, I'd sort of only be giving you part of the picture here. Devin (Dev) is on the path to discovering himself in the summer of 1970-whateve You can't save everyone. I was tempted to add some new category shelves for this review because the ones I am using don't quite fit the type of retro-reflective, not-really-coming-of-age-but-more-of-a-late-blooming type of read which I experienced. Maybe I should add crime or murder or something, but if I said this was a crime novel, or even a murder mystery, I'd sort of only be giving you part of the picture here. Devin (Dev) is on the path to discovering himself in the summer of 1970-whatever. After experiencing a normal bout of heartbreak, he takes a job at an amusement park. No, it's not quite as glamorous as the picture on the cover (which is quite something, isn't it? I love retro artwork.). Dev's experience was more along the lines of this : (view spoiler) [ (hide spoiler) ] Yes, I used a picture of Underdog behind that spoiler. It was either that or Huckleberry Hound or Deputy Dog. It's no matter though. Dev's job had to do with \"wearing the fur,\" which is pretty much the term used for being a doggie mascot. And he saved lives - YES HE DID. I'm not sure what the name Joyland had to do with dogs but who cares? So much of this story was about Dev growing up and experiencing life (then later in life reflecting back on it) that I almost wondered why there was even a murder mystery involved, or why people were seeing ghosts. But as tales often do, everything comes full circle, and solving the mystery brought people close together in a way which got me emotional toward the end. How was I to know that I'd get a little misty eyed over the relationships Dev formed? How could I have known that a single mother and her ailing son would play such a role in making me smile and feel and long for something more? For this is not just another murder mystery. It's so much more. I came across this passage in the book (a few words were removed by me due to spoilers) and I think it sums up what Joyland is about better than my own words could. Those are the things that happened once upon a time and long ago, in a magical year when oil sold for eleven dollars a barrel. The year I got my damn heart broke. The year I lost my virginity. The year I saved a nice little girl from choking and a fairly nasty old man from dying of a heart attack. The year a madman almost killed me. The year I wanted to see a ghost. That was also the year I learned to talk a secret language, and how to dance the Hokey Pokey in a dog costume. The year I discovered that there are worse things than losing the girl. The year I was twenty-one and still a greenie. This is a book about how one moment in the journey of life can change your entire perspective forever. And (for a lack of better words) I like that kind of stuff. Thanks Leea (and Wendy for discussing) for the buddy read![\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Let me start out by saying that I realized going into this that Joyland is not King\u2019s typical horror story. Actually, that is one of the reasons I was excited to pick this one up. I have enough trouble sleeping without nightmarish and gruesome images floating around in my head. What I did expect, however, was a gripping and suspenseful mystery that would have me on the edge of my seat throughout the majority of the book. That never happened. I also imagined a book full of clues which would force Let me start out by saying that I realized going into this that Joyland is not King\u2019s typical horror story. Actually, that is one of the reasons I was excited to pick this one up. I have enough trouble sleeping without nightmarish and gruesome images floating around in my head. What I did expect, however, was a gripping and suspenseful mystery that would have me on the edge of my seat throughout the majority of the book. That never happened. I also imagined a book full of clues which would force me to use my little noggin to try to figure out \u201cwhodunit\u201d. That didn\u2019t happen either. I actually forgot partway through the book to even think about solving a mystery. Even the old-time amusement park setting didn\u2019t really hook me. Maybe I\u2019m just not nostalgic enough. Or maybe I\u2019ve been to one too many amusement parks with a few years of this sort of \u201centertainment\u201d still on the horizon until my kids have grown up and can go on their own. I thought Joyland park would prove to be a creepy setting, but somehow it didn\u2019t. At least not until it was a bit too late for me. I gave this book 3 stars, which means it was good, I just didn\u2019t love it. So\u2026 there must be some gratifying points to the story then, right? Of course! Devin, for one, was a very likeable and trustworthy guy who seems to put his spirit right into his new gig at Joyland. \u201cI was a twenty-one-year-old virgin with literary aspirations. I possessed three pairs of bluejeans, four pairs of Jockey shorts, a clunker Ford (with a good radio), occasional suicidal ideations, and a broken heart\u2026 I never felt so weirdly happy, so absolutely in-the-right-place, as I did when I was twenty-one, wearing the fur and doing the Hokey Pokey on a hot day in June.\u201d Certainly, the introduction of Annie and Mike into the story really turned it around for me. A mother living alone with her disabled and dying son in a sprawling mansion on the beach \u2013 this really added to the emotional appeal of the novel. I just wish we didn\u2019t have to wait so long for these two to come into the story; I think seeing more of Mike and his clairvoyant gifts earlier on would have made for a much more interesting slant to the plot. Oh - I did shift in my seat a bit near the very end of the novel; however, I did sleep okay that night. I read Revival a few months ago and that one seemed to grab me more - just a tad bit eerie, just the way I like it. I look forward to trying another King novel in the future\u2026 perhaps will give him another shot with 11/22/63 . ...more The American author Stephen King is one of today's most popular writers of horror and supernatural novels and stories, occasionally branching out into other genres such as science fiction, fantasy, or factual books. With Joyland , published in 2013, he has once again tried his hand at a crime novel. As with his first novel of this type, it was published by \"Hard Case Crime\" who specialise in crime fiction by both established and new authors who write hardboiled crime novels. Some of their books b The American author Stephen King is one of today's most popular writers of horror and supernatural novels and stories, occasionally branching out into other genres such as science fiction, fantasy, or factual books. With Joyland , published in 2013, he has once again tried his hand at a crime novel. As with his first novel of this type, it was published by \"Hard Case Crime\" who specialise in crime fiction by both established and new authors who write hardboiled crime novels. Some of their books by well-known authors are published under pseudonyms. Some are what the publishers call \"lost noir masterpieces ... by golden-age pulp stars\" , books which conjure up a nostalgic feeling of the paperback crime novels of the 1940s and 1950's. In some ways this one fits the imprint's theme quite well. The cover Art implies pulp fiction, and although the novel is not exactly that, there are no surprises. The story is fairly formulaic, and it has to be said, rather dull. It is doubtful whether this would have got a large readership had it not had Stephen King's name attached. The novel is told by the protagonist in flashback. Devin Jones is remembering the time back in 1973, when he was a gauche college student at the University of New Hampshire. He took a summer job at a small struggling and dingy amusement park called \"Joyland\" in North Carolina, hoping to get over his first love. Apparently Stephen King has said that \"Joyland\" is based on the real life \"Canobie Lake Park\", an amusement park in Salem. The first section deals with the history of Devin's failed relationship with the girl who broke his heart. For the first quarter of the book, this reads like a routine coming-of-age story. There is a lot about Joyland, and the \"carny\" people who work there. The reader is introduced to a lot of the \"talk the talk\" slang language which the carnies use, sometimes so that the people using the amusement park will not understand them. Fairly soon, Devin is given some information by a fortune teller, which he half believes. (view spoiler) [He will meet two children that summer, a girl with a red hat and a boy with a dog. One of them has The Sight. (hide spoiler) ] The other running theme in the book is that there was a brutal murder of a young woman in \"the haunted house\" , the one spooky ride in the park, several years earlier, and that her ghost is said to still haunt the ride. The murderer has never been caught. For much of the book, these facts just stay in the background. We learn more about Devin's emerging friendship with his fellow summer workers, Tom and Erin, with whom he shares lodgings in a boarding house. There are descriptions of a handful of other staff at the amusements park, carnies, some of whom have been there for many years, others who have toured around. (view spoiler) [Devin discovers an unknown talent for \"wearing the fur,\" or acting the part of Joyland's mascot \"Howie the Happy Hound\", by wearing a big furry suit. When part of the fortuneteller's prediction comes true, Devin finds that his quick thinking means that he has earned the respect of all the carnies, including the owner of Joyland. Devin finds that increasingly he enjoys his work at the park but he still feels that his heart is broken and cannot accept what has happened. The vicious murder also begins to prey on his mind, and he desperately wants to see the girl's ghost for himself. When his friend, Tom, does see her ghost, he feels very resentful that he has not. The reader can predict the relationship between the two other characters, and sure enough by the end of the summer Tom and Erin leave as a romantic item, and Devin stays on at the amusement park. From the Devin of the present, we learn that they are to stay together for many years. The Devin of 1973 however has decided to take a year off from university, and stay at the park while it is closed. (hide spoiler) ] By now we are halfway through the book. We then meet two new characters, a rather aloof woman, Annie, and her wheelchair bound son, Mike, plus their dog. Earlier the reader had to plod through the details of a sad stereotypical three-pronged friendship. Now the reader has to put their brain out of action yet again. Two suspiciously random facts are thrown into the mix, facts so unlikely that they scream \"telegraphed ending\" to us. (view spoiler) [Annie is a crack shot with a gun, and her son has psychic ability. (hide spoiler) ] At this point anyone who has read even a few detective novels may feel by now that the story is not worth the telling - unless the reader is particularly interested in the workings of an amusement park in the 1970's. Even the period feel is not particularly vivid. There are few details which convey the time - no references to music, nothing about current events, no details about fashions, TV programmes, fad foods of the time - at one point a microwave oven was used, which is a bit of an anachronism for a hard-up student in 1973. There seems to have been no attempt to invoke any nostalgia, or atmosphere, which is rather a missed opportunity. Neither is there any suspense at all, until nearing the end. (view spoiler) [Devin has asked Erin to find anything she can about the amusement park murder, and she returns on a visit with some pictures and articles she had collected. All the information seems to point to the conclusion that the murder was part of a string of serial murders, with connections which the police had missed. (hide spoiler) ] Apparently the author reports that 20 years previously he had seen a boy in a wheelchair flying a Jesus kite on a beach, and that image stayed with him until he wrote this story. In the novel Devin teaches the boy Mike to fly a kite, and the metaphor for flying, for being free of his wheelchair shackles, is rather heavy-handed. Devin also begins to get closer to the woman who had seemed so reserved, and although she is quite a lot older and very protective of her child, a sort of intimacy grows up between them, which helps him to cope with his lost love. They both realise that the son has remarkable powers of second sight. Of course he has. It's almost inevitable that a child who is destined to die young will have inexplicable supernatural and psychic powers in a book such as this. It wouldn't be very surprising if he could levitate or walk on water. Approaching the end, some tension does begin to build up, although the hero being trapped with the murderer (view spoiler) [on an out of control ferris wheel is, again, a standard device. The reader half expects it to accelerate dizzily to a climax as in Hitchcock's film. And remember the character whose only function was as a romantic interest plus being a crack shot? It's time for her to take centre stage. (hide spoiler) ] The ending is entirely predictable. It even takes place as a storm rages overhead. This is a book which passes the time. It is reasonably well written; Stephen King has not become a best-selling author of over 50 novels without knowing a thing or two about story-telling. There is a mystery, but it is very low-key. There is some emotional content; some attempt to make the main character grow through his experiences of love and loss, but the characters are all rather shallow, superficial descriptions of small town people. There is no real puzzle, and the denouement is rather pedestrian rather than gripping. It would possibly have made a better short story than a novel. There is a lot of padding about carny in the novel. It is an odd choice for the collection, as it is not particularly hardboiled; there is no cynicism on Devin's part, nor is he a detective. In the end it is corny rather than carny. And perhaps this was entirely intentional. (Oh, and by the way, don't wait around for the scene on the cover. It never actually happens.) ...more It's Joyland. \"This is a badly broken world, full of wars and cruelty and senseless tragedy. Every human being who inhabits it is served his or her portion of unhappiness and wakeful nights. Those of you who don\u2019t already know that will come to know it. Given such sad but undeniable facts of the human condition, you have been given a priceless gift this summer: you are here to sell fun. In exchange for the hard-earned dollars of your customers, you will parcel out happiness\". Joyland sees the King It's Joyland. \"This is a badly broken world, full of wars and cruelty and senseless tragedy. Every human being who inhabits it is served his or her portion of unhappiness and wakeful nights. Those of you who don\u2019t already know that will come to know it. Given such sad but undeniable facts of the human condition, you have been given a priceless gift this summer: you are here to sell fun. In exchange for the hard-earned dollars of your customers, you will parcel out happiness\". Joyland sees the King enter for the second time the realms of the hard case crime series and another digression from the horror stories we know and love. Told completely in first person, Devin Jones a college student back in 1973, gets a summer job at the amusement park Joyland and soon meets a multitude of characters from the world of the Carny. The blood of the carnival runs deep and his tasks are far and wide, the highlight though is his time spent acting the part of Howie the Happy Hound but only in 15 minutes stints, health and safety you know, but really only physical capabilities limits the time 'wearing the fur'. He meets two friends that will remain so for the rest of his life, the story of a young woman murdered on one of the rides, a ghostly presence and a killer never caught. Finally there\u2019s Annie, guarded, afraid to let anyone into her life, a son who needs constant care and a trip to Joyland, the last thing on her mind. Joyland it's where they're all heading though and it\u2019s a compelling trip fraught with a melee of feelings and experiences for young Devin. As with his recent stuff, the characterization is exceptional, he tells his story through the eyes of young Devin Jones and I lived this story with him. The heartbreak of a relationship that's run its course, still hanging by a thread, the feelings you'll only know if you've been through it yourself and the start of something new, time to live again, hope again and feel joy, until something gets in the way. That something involves some research and of course one or two murders, a hint of the supernatural but still it's primarily a story about people, relationships and life. Part coming of age in a sexual context but more about the perilous leap from young man to the rocky shores of adulthood, love, danger and of course sadness. \u2018All I can say is what you already know: some days are treasure. Not many, but I think in almost every life there are a few.\u2019 Another wonderful King trip. Highly recommended Also posted at http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/... ...more I decided this review didn't need to be more than a quick one. I've said enough, why say more. I couldn't put Joyland down. It was a fascinating look at carny life, touching at times, and proves King can still write a wonderful story less than 1000 pages long. The noir, crime-solving aspect was almost an afterthought to this interesting tale of life working at an amusement park. If you have fond memories of a summer job where you almost spoke a different language with your co-workers and really b I decided this review didn't need to be more than a quick one. I've said enough, why say more. I couldn't put Joyland down. It was a fascinating look at carny life, touching at times, and proves King can still write a wonderful story less than 1000 pages long. The noir, crime-solving aspect was almost an afterthought to this interesting tale of life working at an amusement park. If you have fond memories of a summer job where you almost spoke a different language with your co-workers and really bonded, possibly even for life, this book is certainly for you. I worked as a lifeguard for a couple summers and it brought back fond memories of messing with the rubes (I'm officially only speaking in Carny Talk). We'd go on break and jump in the pool and pretend we couldn't swim. Good times! Joyland is full of nostalgia and some really sweet moments that had me tearing up. It's easy to forget that anything else is going on, you're so wrapped up in the lives of these characters and then boom! a climactic ending causing all bodily functions to cease until done. 4.5 out of 5 Stars ...more Watch Stephen King Talking about This book on Today show now @ http://more2read.com/review/joyland-by-stephen-king/ 'Work close to heaven!' That was the advertisement that Mr Devin Jones one Summer reacted to, and this stand up guy at the age of twenty one was soon to become Howie the Happy Hound suited up in Hound attire doing the Hokey Pokey dance with kids at Joyland, a fun amusement park, a place where fun was lived out in its highs of rides and pitch darkness of the Horror House. There is un Watch Stephen King Talking about This book on Today show now @ http://more2read.com/review/joyland-by-stephen-king/ 'Work close to heaven!' That was the advertisement that Mr Devin Jones one Summer reacted to, and this stand up guy at the age of twenty one was soon to become Howie the Happy Hound suited up in Hound attire doing the Hokey Pokey dance with kids at Joyland, a fun amusement park, a place where fun was lived out in its highs of rides and pitch darkness of the Horror House. There is unfortunately no tunnel of love, just in case anyone reading wants to hope on a flight out to Joyland. The nearest to a tunnel of love is the Horror House but as you embark on that ride, with zombies and skeletons leaping out of nowhere to surprise you in the dark, watch out for any lonesome dame stranded, lurking, wearing a blue skirt and blue sleeveless blouse and a matching blue Alice band, she is not part of the outfit, the fun, she is out of place in Joyland, her presence, the mystery behind her, the suspense that surrounds her is the hook in the tale, one of which our master storyteller Mr Stephen King has used to great success i have to say, one to have you hooked and transported to this summer and the lead characters days working at Joyland. Published by Hard Case Crime, a publishing house that specialises in suspense, mystery and noir, its no surprise that King chose them to tell this throwback suspense and mystery story. He has used a great setting a theme park, just liked great stories such as Something wicked This way Comes by Ray Bradbury , a memorable and strong character is present with the young protagonist Mr Devin Jones with hero qualities and some flaws, and another even better character Mike a young boy who is severely ill and wheelchair bound, you will also read of some love for the main character one gone and a possibly another to be gained. This story has the reader ponder and read over the good days that have past, the love that was lost and found, the death that was faced and the life that managed to live on, a quaint feeling left upon the reader cast, on the good people lost and struck from this earth but the wonderful memories that lay and they left behind. Joyland somewhere, somehow, may be found across the world, across seas and across lands, in hearts and minds, through efforts and great human endeavor, in fun-houses, parks, and happy days, everyone has some fun-house days to remember, recollect and reflect on the silver-lining and on the others of whom have left behind a memory gone from this passing world but never be forgotten. A modest story can have great ramifications and reverberations, there is a power present in this great storytelling and of one I am in awe of Stephen Kings ability to do right, he connects and transports his reader. In this tale he weaves you slowly in, with the telling of the main character Devin Jones and his humble efforts on a summer job at Joyland, a place of fun, and slowly revels some darkness and then some light with the great character Mike and his dreams of being out of his wheelchair high up in the sky on a ride, like the kite he regularly reels from his seat, as dreams are forged, and he breathes the air you have the great feeling of freedom he must have felt and then the darkness comes again and then.......the rest lays in wait for you to read this Summer, run and buy it in truck loads and give out for free. Excerpts \"I remember Mike's day at the park\u2014Annie's day, too\u2014as if it happened last week, but it would take a correspondent much more talented than I am to tell you how it felt, or to explain how it could have ended the last hold Wendy Keegan still held over my heart and my emotions. All I can say is what you already know: some days are treasure. Not many, but I think in almost every life there are a few. That was one of mine, and when I'm blue-when life comes down on me and everything looks tawdry and cheap, the way Joyland Avenue did on a rainy day\u2014I go back to it, if only to remind myself that life isn't always a butcher's game. Sometimes the prizes are real. Sometimes they're precious.\" \"Who knows, this place might be your future.\" \"Maybe,\" I said, although I already knew what my future was going to be: writing novels and the kind of short stories they publish in The New Yorker. I had it all planned out. Of course, is also had marriage to Wendy Keegan all planned out, and how we'd wait until we were in our thirties to have a couple of kids. When you're twenty-one, life is a roadmap. It's only when you get to be twenty-five or so that you begin to suspect you've been looking at map upside down, and not until you're forty are you entirely sure. By the time you're sixty, take it from me, you're f*****g lost.\" \"There's one Hollywood Girl on each Helper team.....They run around in these short green dresses and green high heels and cutie-pie green hats that always make me think of Robin Hood and his Merry Men. Only they re the Merry Chicks. They tote Speed Graphic cameras, like the kind you see in old movies, and they take pictures of the rubes.\" She paused. \"Although I'd advise you against calling the customers that yourself.\" \"Already been warned by Mr. Dean,\" I said. \"Figures. Anyhow, the Hollywood Girls are told to concentrate on family groups and dating couples who look over twenty-one. Kids younger than that usually aren't interested in souvenir photos; they'd rather spend their money on food and arcade games. So the deal is, the girls snap first, then approach.\" She did a breathy little Marilyn Monroe voice. \" 'Hello, welcome to Joyland, I'm Karen! If you'd like a copy of the picture I just took, give me your name and check at the Hollywood Photo Booth on Hound Dog Way as you exit the park.' Like that.\" \"This is a badly broken world, full of wars and cruelty and senseless tragedy. Every human being who inhabits it is served his or her portion of unhappiness and wakeful nights. Those of you who don't already know that will come to know it. Given such sad but undeniable facts of the human condition, you have been given a priceless gift this summer: you are here to sell fun. In exchange for the hard-earned dollars of your customers, you will parcel out happiness. Children will go home and dream of what they saw here and what they did here. I hope you will remember that when the work is hard, as it sometimes will be, or when people are rude, as they often will be, or when you feel your best efforts have gone unappreciated. This is a different world, one that has its own customs and its own language, which we simply call the Talk. You'll begin learning it today. As you learn to talk the Talk, you'll learn to walk the walk. I'm not going to explain that, because it can't be explained; it can only be learned.\" BOOK TRAILER AND REVIEW @ http://more2read.com/review/joyland-by-stephen-king/ http://more2read.com/reviews/stephen-king/ Stephen King On Growing Up, Believing In God And Getting Scared : NPR ...more This wasn't what I had first expected. For quite a while the story is being set up -- a lovesick college boy goes off to North Carolina to work for a small amusement park, Joyland, for the summer. There's a fun house tunnel ride where years before, a girl was murdered, and rumor is that she haunts it. It was much later when we find out if it is really haunted (here's a clue: look at who the author is), but in the meantime we get to learn all about carny life and the people who live it. We get to This wasn't what I had first expected. For quite a while the story is being set up -- a lovesick college boy goes off to North Carolina to work for a small amusement park, Joyland, for the summer. There's a fun house tunnel ride where years before, a girl was murdered, and rumor is that she haunts it. It was much later when we find out if it is really haunted (here's a clue: look at who the author is), but in the meantime we get to learn all about carny life and the people who live it. We get to see Devin grow into himself that summer, and his way with children becomes evident. A fortune teller foresees a little girl and boy who will impact him profoundly. And Devin gets interested in the unsolved murder of the girl in the fun house, with the serial killer still on the loose and possibly close by. Not really scary, which was fine, but has a fair amount of mystery and suspense. Just a very likeable story and cast of characters. ...more Every Stephen King fan has a wonderful memory of reading one of his books, the experience making you oblivious of all else as you become enveloped in the story, completely consumed with the characters, the plot, the sheer brilliance of the storytelling. For me those memories are clustered around my early teens when I first read King, reading Misery, The Shining, IT, Pet Sematary, Different Seasons, in a massive reading jag \u2013 I fell hard for King and there was nothing better than picking up one o Every Stephen King fan has a wonderful memory of reading one of his books, the experience making you oblivious of all else as you become enveloped in the story, completely consumed with the characters, the plot, the sheer brilliance of the storytelling. For me those memories are clustered around my early teens when I first read King, reading Misery, The Shining, IT, Pet Sematary, Different Seasons, in a massive reading jag \u2013 I fell hard for King and there was nothing better than picking up one of his novels to pass the time. Movies, games, everything in fact, paled in comparison to the vivid chills and unforgettable characters King conjured up in his novels. But the years passed and I discovered new writers who made me as excited as King did the first time I read him \u2013 Palahniuk, Bukowski, Coupland, the list goes on and on. I still read King every now and then but I found I liked him less and less the more I read, the older I got. Things came to a nadir when I read 2006\u2019s \u201cLisey\u2019s Story\u201d a book so shockingly bad I couldn\u2019t believe it was written by the same author of \u201cRita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption\u201d. That put me off King for 5 years. Since then the only things King wrote that I could finish were his short stories, some of which were decent, and, if they weren\u2019t, at least they were over soon. The only King novel I\u2019ve completed since \u201cLisey\u2019s Story\u201d was \u201cDolores Claiborne\u201d and only then in the form of an audiobook accompanied by a long car ride. But, man, I hated \"Dolores Claiborne\" almost as much as \"Lisey's Story\" for having the same, irritating authorial voice that was for too in love with its own voice more than anything else. I even thought the cause might be modern King versus classic King, so, after getting bored with and abandoning 11/22/63, I went back and read the only major King novel I hadn\u2019t read back when I first discovered him \u2013 The Stand. But that too failed to entrance me! It took too long to get going, there didn\u2019t seem to be a plot, and after 200 pages, I stopped and haven\u2019t gotten back to finishing the remaining 1000 pages! So I think it\u2019s a case of my reading tastes now and what they were back when I was much younger, nearly 20 years ago. \u201cJoyride\u201d has suffered the same fate as every other King novel I\u2019ve attempted reading in the last 7 years \u2013 I\u2019ve abandoned it. Except this time, the experience was so terrible, so infuriating, that I officially will never again read, or pick up, a Stephen King novel. \u201cJoyride\u201d is laughably published by Hard Case Crime, a line of books that publishes, yes, hard boiled noir. If \u201cJoyride\u201d is hard boiled noir, then I\u2019m Cthulu the God of Madness. I heard awful things about his last HCC publication, \u201cThe Colorado Kid\u201d, and it seemed that that too wasn\u2019t really a crime novel, or if it was then it was a pitiful attempt at one. \u201cJoyride\u201d isn\u2019t even an attempt at a crime novel, hard boiled noir or otherwise. It simply isn\u2019t. I was expecting a crime novel though from a few things I noticed before even reading it - the dedication is to Donald Westlake who wrote under the pseudonym Richard Stark. Richard Stark wrote the Parker novel \"Slayground\", a crime thriller that takes place in an amusement park. \"Joyland\" is edited by Charles Ardai who wrote the introduction to my edition of \"Slayground\". It's just a coincidence that the last book I read was \"Slayground\" (review here ) that made me think this - but that's all it turned out to be, a series of coincidences as Richard Stark/Donald Westlake would never write something so absolutely boring. It\u2019s a coming-of-age story which isn\u2019t something I\u2019m against but after reading King\u2019s treatment of it, I\u2019m completely turned off of reading in the future. Devin Jones is our dull protagonist, telling his tale (from the present where he is a 60-something novelist) about his time in the early 70s when he was in his early 20s working a summer job in a fairground called Joyland. Before I go any further, allow me to vent against this character, and all characters who\u2019re similarly created by King. King is today a 60-something novelist from the American North-East \u2013 like Devin Jones. In the early 1970s, King was also in his early 20s \u2013 like Devin Jones. How many times is King going to make his main characters exactly like him? How many times have you read a Stephen King novel where the hero is a novelist? Off the top of my head: The Shining, \u2018Salem\u2019s Lot, Misery, IT, Bag of Bones, Secret Window, Lisey\u2019s Story, The Dark Half, and now Joyland. There\u2019s probably more \u2013 I haven\u2019t read them all, and I\u2019m not going to go look up what other novels/short stories have a writer for a main character, but looking at that list, it\u2019s a lot. It\u2019s shockingly lazy characterisation from King \u2013 fans of his often cite his ability to create meaningful and involving characters and yet so often he doesn\u2019t even try creating original ones. The novel\u2019s being written in the first person? Why not make \u201cI\u201d, myself? That\u2019ll save me trying to create an original voice, it\u2019ll save me having make an effort to create something new! If King had a shred of originality he\u2019d take more chances \u2013 fine, write in the first person, but how about making the main character a 12 year old black kid in Brazil? Capturing that voice would be a challenge! Or how about a wheelchair-bound 20-something in a Siberian mining town? Or if you insist on setting all of your stories in mainland America \u2013 not a problem \u2013 how about picking someone from a completely different socio-economic background? America is the great melting pot, after all. Instead King just picks someone who is exactly like him in every way as his main character. It\u2019s lazy, it\u2019s egotistical, and, at this point, it\u2019s beyond a joke. So yeah back to Stephen King\u2019s summer job \u2013 sorry, Devin Jones\u2019 summer job in Joyland, a Southern amusement park. But WAIT! Before that, we have to read about his boring life as a student in a North-Eastern university. He\u2019s seeing a girl he hasn\u2019t had sex with; he works in the university cafeteria; his mum\u2019s dead; why do we need to know any of this? No idea \u2013 why King just doesn\u2019t start the novel with Devin starting work at Joyland, I don\u2019t know. His entire backstory could be told in a page or two, but 30 pages? Where was the editor? So now we\u2019re in Joyland. But WAIT! We have to read more about Devin and his boring life. We have to read about his trip down South, his job interview, and his boring landlady whom he rents a room from. Through the landlady\u2019s gosh-darnit-down-home blather, King attempts a half-assed ghost story angle by implying the park is haunted by a dead girl\u2019s spirit (which, this being a King novel, I\u2019m sure is real and the ghost shows up later on). Still no sign of that hard boiled noir this series is supposed to espouse. Oh well, at least we have King parodying his former glories \u2013 if only in passing. Because NOW we\u2019re in Joyland \u2013 and holy fuck, is it a boring place! Yes, after 50 pages or so of NOTHING, we\u2019re now getting into the story proper. But not really because we see Devin learning how to operate the various rides and meet the carny folk who run it. After 30 pages (I almost typed years \u2013 my subconscious isn\u2019t far off, it certainly felt that long) and passing the 80 page mark, I left the book on my table in the coffee shop and walked out. I read the acknowledgments before abandoning the book entirely and King makes a point of remarking on the carny dialogue of the book, which ties into what made me hate this book so much. King\u2019s writing style these days shows that he has abandoned the qualities that made his writing so interesting in the first place \u2013 character, story, pacing \u2013 in favour of the worst, most annoying dialogue you\u2019ll ever read. His characters are constantly spouting down-home, country sayings and gibberish. Factor in King\u2019s new found love for carny-speech and, ugh, I couldn\u2019t bear it anymore. While \u201cJoyland\u201d\u2019s dialogue never sank to the depths of \u201cLisey\u2019s Story\u201d\u2019s skull-crushingly stupid lexicon (\"big sissa\" \"manda bunny\" \"bool\" \"blood bool\" \"bad bool\" \"great bool\" \"boo'ya moon\" \"bad-gunky\" \"yum-yum tree\" \"mothersmucker\" \"smucker\" \"babyluv\" \"Good Ma\" \"SOWISA\" \"Strap On Whenever It Seems Appropriate\" \"ah so\" \"numbah\" \u2013 never, ever read \u201cLisey\u2019s Story\u201d!), it was certainly the most noticeable part of the story for its cheesiness. In fact, I\u2019d guess the only reason King wrote this novel is so he could use the kind of dumb shit carny dialogue that peppers this garbage. \u201cJoyland\u201d is as hard boiled noir as a Pink Panther cartoon. If it\u2019s a horror novel, I\u2019d compare it to Scooby Doo\u2019s gentlest offering. It\u2019s a pathetic coming of age disasterpiece where dreariness meets plodding, leaden storytelling. In the 80 pages I read I didn\u2019t encounter a single character I cared to know about, a single scene I felt was even remotely interesting, and above all felt like I was reading the ramblings of an old man in love with the sound of his authorial voice \u2013 which is exactly what I was reading. King is such a successful writer that no editor will touch his books and so the pages drone on and on relentlessly, telling you nothing of any interest. If a first-time writer were to submit this crap, it\u2019d never get published, and if an editor did look at it, all of it would be cut. And yet people seem to love this stuff! I can\u2019t believe the overwhelmingly positive amount of reviews this shite is garnering! What book was everyone else reading? Was hearing about Devin Jones\u2019 dull summer job so fascinating? The Stephen King of today is unrecognisable from the writer whose work I fell for when I was 12/13 years old \u2013 now at age 29, I cannot stand him. He\u2019s boring. He can\u2019t tell a good story \u2013 he doesn\u2019t seem able to, nor does he seem much interested in telling one, even if he had one! He\u2019s overly focused on corny dialogue to the exclusion of all else and his main characters are thoughtless facsimiles of himself. The only crime I saw in \u201cJoyland\u201d was that such drek was published in the first place and the only joy I received was giving up on it. This is the last thing I read by Stephen King ever, I just can\u2019t do it anymore, it\u2019s too demoralising. Fuck \u201cJoyland\u201d and fuck Stephen King. ...more Devin Jones\u2019 college girlfriend has taken a summer job that will have them spending the break away from each other, so Devin decides to apply for a job at an amusement park called Joyland in North Carolina. Little does Devin know this will be the summer that changes his life forever. He will find lifelong friends, suffer his first heartbreak, discover love in many different forms and be haunted by an unsolved murder that took place on Joyland\u2019s grounds. If I pretend for one moment I had never hea Devin Jones\u2019 college girlfriend has taken a summer job that will have them spending the break away from each other, so Devin decides to apply for a job at an amusement park called Joyland in North Carolina. Little does Devin know this will be the summer that changes his life forever. He will find lifelong friends, suffer his first heartbreak, discover love in many different forms and be haunted by an unsolved murder that took place on Joyland\u2019s grounds. If I pretend for one moment I had never heard of Stephen King, I still would have wanted to read this novel. I mean, look at that cover art! Like a moth to a flame, I was immediately drawn in. Of course, I HAVE heard of King and, like so many others, have read almost everything he\u2019s written. I loved the question marks I had when starting this one. Here\u2019s the master of horror writing a story about a ghost, yet it has a bright yellow \u201ccrime\u201d label on the front and old Dewey Decimal has it filed under \u201cmystery\u201d. Oh how I love a book that\u2019s so schizophrenic it cannot be categorized. I also love when Stephen King just tells me a good story. That\u2019s not to say I don\u2019t appreciate the terror of \u201cIt\u201d or the epic saga of \u201cThe Stand\u201d, but King is magic when he gives us something like \u201cThe Shawshank Redemption\u201d or \u201cThe Body\u201d. I\u2019m sure it has a lot to do with the fact that it\u2019s so unexpected, but now that his son has taken the reins and become a fabulous horror writer himself, I hope to see even more like this. Per usual, I solved the mystery when the first clue was given. The good news is, it didn\u2019t bother me one little bit. I was so wrapped up in Devin\u2019s coming of age story and completely in love with all the characters that the murder was just a tiny blip on the radar. ...more I loved this. Listening to this nostalgic coming-of-age tale was as comfortable as spending a lazy summer afternoon lounging in a hammock with your best childhood friend. Beautifully narrated, I fell in love with it all and for seven hours I was swept away. Magical. 4.5 stars. In this, one of Stephen Kings lesser known works, there are some precious gems of writing (\"I lay awake in the small hours of the morning, waiting for them to get bigger\" is but one) - thank you Mr King for a most enjoyable journey through this book. It is, perhaps, not his normal fare, but that made it no less pleasurable for me. Joyland had an emotional impact on me - I found myself crying in places, both for the loss of life and the loss of trust and innocence. Devin Jones takes a summer job in In this, one of Stephen Kings lesser known works, there are some precious gems of writing (\"I lay awake in the small hours of the morning, waiting for them to get bigger\" is but one) - thank you Mr King for a most enjoyable journey through this book. It is, perhaps, not his normal fare, but that made it no less pleasurable for me. Joyland had an emotional impact on me - I found myself crying in places, both for the loss of life and the loss of trust and innocence. Devin Jones takes a summer job in a down at heel amusement park after his girlfriend makes \"other arrangements\" for her summer break, then unceremoniously dumps him by letter (this is set in the days before mobile phones and texting). While trying to forget the girl who broke his heart, he makes new friends and faces new trials: the legacy of a vicious murder, the fate of a dying child, and dark truths about life\u2014and what comes after\u2014that changes his world forever. ...more Lo voy a decir con todo el orgullo que me produce el hecho de que un autor haya despertado algo tan profundo en mi, y haya tocado algo tan sensible: llor\u00e9 como pocas veces. Ser\u00e1 medio confuso para quienes a\u00fan no han le\u00eddo el libro, porque s\u00ed, es terror, es de cr\u00edmenes, pero su historia va un poco m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de eso tambi\u00e9n con algunos momentos emotivos que hacen que uno se encari\u00f1e al instante de los personajes. Una historia hermosa, definitivamente lo releer\u00eda mil veces m\u00e1s porque disfrut\u00e9 cada p\u00e1 Lo voy a decir con todo el orgullo que me produce el hecho de que un autor haya despertado algo tan profundo en mi, y haya tocado algo tan sensible: llor\u00e9 como pocas veces. Ser\u00e1 medio confuso para quienes a\u00fan no han le\u00eddo el libro, porque s\u00ed, es terror, es de cr\u00edmenes, pero su historia va un poco m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de eso tambi\u00e9n con algunos momentos emotivos que hacen que uno se encari\u00f1e al instante de los personajes. Una historia hermosa, definitivamente lo releer\u00eda mil veces m\u00e1s porque disfrut\u00e9 cada p\u00e1gina de este buen libro. Y para todo aqu\u00e9l que se atrevi\u00f3 a decir que King ya no hace cosas buenas, aparentemente no ley\u00f3 Joyland. King lo \u00fanico que hace con el tiempo es mejorar. ...more This book was a generous gift some time ago, from a friend who'd read it and wanted to pass it along to another reader; so I had it handy when it was picked for a common read this month in one of my Goodreads groups. Despite my liking for speculative and macabre fiction, my acquaintance with King's work is spotty; I've read and liked several of his short stories, but only two of his novels before this one (and those back n the early 90s): his SF tome Firestarter and his fantasy The Eyes of the D This book was a generous gift some time ago, from a friend who'd read it and wanted to pass it along to another reader; so I had it handy when it was picked for a common read this month in one of my Goodreads groups. Despite my liking for speculative and macabre fiction, my acquaintance with King's work is spotty; I've read and liked several of his short stories, but only two of his novels before this one (and those back n the early 90s): his SF tome Firestarter and his fantasy The Eyes of the Dragon . Though those had their flaws, especially the former, I liked both of them overall. Unfortunately, my reaction to this one wasn't as positive, though it did have its strong points. Our narrator, Devin Jones, from the vantage point of 2013 (when the book was published) looks back 40 years to 1973, when as a Maine-born college student of about 20 or 21, he took a summer job at Joyland, an amusement park in coastal North Carolina. It's mostly a pleasant place; but we learn early on that back in 1969, it was the scene of a grisly tragedy when a young girl named Linda Gray was brutally murdered in Horror House, the park's only \"dark ride\" --the victim of a probable serial killer. And we learn too that in the four years since then, numerous park employees believe they've seen her ghost haunting the place where she was killed. This sets up an expectation that the mystery behind this killing will play a significant role in the plot, reinforced by the fact that this is published under the Hard Case Crime imprint (though the supernatural certainly plays a greater role here than would normally be found under this label). But though one of my Goodreads friends found the plot \"predictable,\" I didn't --beyond the basic expectation that Devin would become involved with the mystery, King's plotting threw me a couple of significant surprises I didn't see coming, and it always held an element of \"what's-going-to-happen-next?\" interest. There are other positive factors here, which helped to keep me reading to the end, and account for the two-star rating rather than one. King's characterizations are sharp, life-like, and mostly likable --at least in the case of those characters that we're intended to like. Joyland itself is an evocative image from an older America, a privately-owned park that's more humanly-scaled and more genuine than its giant corporate-owned competitors which even in the 70s were crushing their smaller competitors out of business. (In that respect, King's social analysis comes across as right on target.) One reviewer felt that the book doesn't evoke much of a sense of time and place; but as someone who lived in that time (my high school class was the class of 70) the period detail mostly felt authentic to me, and the park evoked memories of Holiday World back in Indiana in the late 80s and early 90s. For me, the inclusion of back-scenes detail of carnival operation and slang (some of which, as the Author's Note indicates, isn't authentic --but most of it is), lent texture to the story. And it's a relatively short, quick read, unlike some of King's doorstop-sized chunksters -- Firestarter benefited from the longer treatment, but this tale would not have. The negatives, however, weigh the book down heavily. Perhaps the most notable is the gratuitous and copious bad language, which includes a lot of religious profanity and f-words. (There was some of the same problem with Firestarter , but not nearly as much --that work had only a couple of f-words, and was much longer.) The blurb indicates that the novel is intended to be a character study and coming of age story, with those elements as much or more important than the murder mystery and the ghostly aspects; but the sexual content and immature sexual attitudes work against this intention and ultimately defeat it. We don't get a sense that Wendy Keegan is very lovable, or that Devin's relationship with her is a great love that truly breaks his heart when it ends. He mostly just bemoans the fact that he never had sex with her --and he regrets that mainly because it affronts his ego with the suggestion that he wasn't \"good enough.\" (But though those two don't have sex, we hear a lot more about their genital-related activities than we need or want to know.) Loss of virginity in commitment-free sex is erroneously equated with coming of age, and the tacked-on sexual relationship here is more of a hormone-drenched adolescent male's sexual fantasy than anything we can see as very probable in the real world. King also indulges his penchant for caricaturing and demeaning evangelical Christians with stereotypical smear portrayals (also evidenced in Firestarter , but again nowhere near so prominently as here). Structurally, a valid criticism would be that, given the important roles Mike and Annie play in the plot, it would have made more sense to introduce them much earlier in the book. More importantly, one major development in the supernatural plot strand isn't explained, doesn't make sense, and doesn't stand up to examination at all. (view spoiler) [What Mike does to \"free\" the ghost or \"show her the door\"isn't clear, nor why she couldn't exit Horror House before on her own; and the business of the falling padlock conflicts with the moving car going to the other exit --which one did she exit from, and why was there any phenomena displayed in relation to the other one? (hide spoiler) ] Other nits could be picked, but these were enough to drag the rating down. King is actually capable of better work, as I've seen for myself; and I might someday read another novel of his --I'm not ruling it out. But I'm not rushing to put any on my to-read list, either. ...more I . CANNOT . WAIT! Finding out there's a new Stephen King book on the horizon is like being seven years old, walking into the living room on Christmas morning, and seeing a pile of presents with your name on them as tall as the Christmas tree! (edited after reading the novel) What can you say about a Stephen King book that hasn't already been said? Even so, \"Joyland\" moved me in a different way than most King novels. It is a coming-of-age story, much like \"Stand by Me,\", but it differs in that there I . CANNOT . WAIT! Finding out there's a new Stephen King book on the horizon is like being seven years old, walking into the living room on Christmas morning, and seeing a pile of presents with your name on them as tall as the Christmas tree! (edited after reading the novel) What can you say about a Stephen King book that hasn't already been said? Even so, \"Joyland\" moved me in a different way than most King novels. It is a coming-of-age story, much like \"Stand by Me,\", but it differs in that there is more poignance in this one. King always creates intriguing characters, but there was a depth to Devin, Annie, and Mike, that highlights the frailty of the human condition so beautifully! Maybe it was the contrast between the amusement park setting and a child who is dying, maybe it's Stephen King's advancing age, I don't know, but something about this book was just so sad and sweet, adding on an extra layer of profound to what would have been a pretty good \"scary crime mystery.\" \"Joyland\" was beautiful, in a melancholy way. ...more Yay!!! This book was excellent. I enjoyed it so much. King can write an HCC any day and I would eat it up with a spoon. This one was full of great characters that just grab your attention and pulls you in. I hope he writes more like this. :)", "Title": "Joyland"},
