{"Comments": "A little history: It looked to me like this was a transitional book as the author moves this series from western to modern romance. This book begins in 2005 and introduces readers to Tucker Coulter when he discovers a journal written in 1889 that belonged to <---C>Rachel Hollister</---C>/Joseph Paxton. Joseph Paxton is the half brother to Ace Keegan (<---B>Keegan's Lady</---B>) and has brothers,<---M> David and Esa Paxton</---M>, and a step sister, Eden O'Shannessy. This one has a brief mention of Patrick O'Shannessy (Caitlin's brothe A little history: It looked to me like this was a transitional book as the author moves this series from western to modern romance. This book begins in 2005 and introduces readers to Tucker Coulter when he discovers a journal written in 1889 that belonged to Rachel Hollister/Joseph Paxton. Joseph Paxton is the half brother to Ace Keegan (Keegan's Lady) and has brothers, David and Esa Paxton, and a step sister, Eden O'Shannessy. This one has a brief mention of Patrick O'Shannessy (Caitlin's brother) and his new wife, Faith, and their child. They are in the anthology \"The True Love Wedding Dress\" which has story #2 of this series. My review: I thought this book was a bit slow at parts and took me awhile to get into, but once things got moving along it was enjoyable. There is a mystery here that unravels nicely and a dose of suspense to boot. I enjoyed the characters interactions and personalities. They developed well throughout, but I was frustrated with a couple of things in this book: 1) For five years the town turned a blind eye on Rachel, who after her family were all shot and she survived became an Agoraphobic (with panic attacks)--inability to leave her home 2) FIVE YEARS!! Someone should have helped her long before the phobia advanced, IMO, they aided the illness in lieu of trying to help her 3) There sure were a lot of modern phrases and dialogue in the book for a western in 1889 4) Joseph enabled her in lieu of helping her. If he put just as much effort into helping her as he did in reinforcing her self-imposed prison, I would have been a much happier reader. On the down side, I thought a few things could have been edited out, recaps of conversations that I just read about, retelling to other characters. That sort of thing gets on my nerves. I loved the dog, Buddy! He really added to the story, for me, a dog lover. ;-) The love letter at the end from Joseph to Rachel was a tear jerker, so have a box of tissues handy for that. This book ends back in 2005 with Tucker Coulter (in Oregon) deciding to try to locate some long lost relatives, Paxtons and Keegans (in Colorado), but I don't see Tucker's story yet. For me, the stories aren't planned out that far in advance and why introduce Tucker here then not write about him in the next 3-4 books? There just needs to be better organization with the characters, IMO. The switch from past to present relatives in a series can be done. Linda Lael Miller's series starts out in western times and they succinctly follow the family tree and they are in modern times now. I like that! Going back to read David, Esa and Edens stories after going into modern times, I don't like that. I can see me loosing interest in this series and this author writes wonderful romantic westerns. ...more 4.5 stars Joseph's letter in the epilogue scored a full one star from me.<---F> I'm such a romantic sap</---F>. This book has a good premise but I didn't care for it that much. After seeing her family massacred the Rachel has become agoraphobic the last five years and is unable to leave her house. After Rachel's hired hand is shot Joseph comes to look after her (against his will) because he promises her hired hand he will. This is not a bad book, but I never got very invested in the story. Joseph is kind've a galoot. He doesn't come off as especially witty or intelligent. He also fights and denies his feel This book has a good premise but I didn't care for it that much. After seeing her family massacred the Rachel has become agoraphobic the last five years and is unable to leave her house. After Rachel's hired hand is shot Joseph comes to look after her (against his will) because he promises her hired hand he will. This is not a bad book, but I never got very invested in the story. Joseph is kind've a galoot. He doesn't come off as especially witty or intelligent. He also fights and denies his feelings almost the whole book which I don't really like. The mystery of who killed Rachel's family took up a large portion of the book. I don't like my mystery and romances mixed up. I'm a fan of both genres and I like to choose one or the other, not a watered down version of both. Still, the heroine was a good one and it was a good premise. ...more One of the hardest questions anyone can ask me is \"What is your favorite book?\" But the ultimate tough question for anyone to ask me is \"What is your favorite <---A>Catherine Anderson</---A> book?\" Should you ever ask me that question, you will see in my face just how crazy I think you are... but I think I finally know the answer to this conundrum: <+++>Summer Breeze</+++> . <+++>Summer Breeze</+++> is my favorite Catherine Anderson book. There is only one way to describe it and that would be lovely . It is heartbreakingly lovely i One of the hardest questions anyone can ask me is \"What is your favorite book?\" But the ultimate tough question for anyone to ask me is \"What is your favorite Catherine Anderson book?\" Should you ever ask me that question, you will see in my face just how crazy I think you are... but I think I finally know the answer to this conundrum: Summer Breeze . Summer Breeze is my favorite Catherine Anderson book. There is only one way to describe it and that would be lovely . It is heartbreakingly lovely in the most wonderful way and there is nothing more that I wish to say. ...more Reviewed for www.thcreviews.com \"3.5 stars\" Summer Breeze was a pleasant read, but the first 2/3 of the book was rather slow and at times, mundane. In my opinion, this was due in part to story limitations because of Rachel's agoraphobia. She interacted with few characters other than Joseph, and all those interactions were limited to her safe, barricaded room. Hence, most of this part of the story felt like little more than an average frontier couple going through their daily routine. Around the t Reviewed for www.thcreviews.com \"3.5 stars\" Summer Breeze was a pleasant read, but the first 2/3 of the book was rather slow and at times, mundane. In my opinion, this was due in part to story limitations because of Rachel's agoraphobia. She interacted with few characters other than Joseph, and all those interactions were limited to her safe, barricaded room. Hence, most of this part of the story felt like little more than an average frontier couple going through their daily routine. Around the time that Joseph and Rachel got married, things picked up a bit, but I have to say that the sensuality was extremely mild throughout the entire book with nothing even resembling passion occurring until about 2/3 of the way in. This would not have bothered me except that I wasn't feeling a strong connection between the two protagonists already. One might think that having a couple spend the majority of their time together day and night would lead to some really deep and expressive emotions, but for me, it did not. I think part of this was the previously cited limited scope of their interactions and part was Joseph stubbornly holding Rachel at arms length, but the primary issue was how Joseph handled Rachel's agoraphobia. In most romance novels where one protagonist has a major obstacle to overcome, the other one is usually doing everything he or she can to aid in their recovery, and all of their efforts are part of what makes the story so romantic. In Summer Breeze , I felt that Joseph spent more time facilitating Rachel's disability than helping her to overcome it, and in the end, they failed to really light that romantic spark for me. Also, all the folksy colloquialisms, many of which I had never even heard of, were overused to the point that they became a bit annoying to me, and there were other phrases that seemed rather anachronistic. Additionally, there was a scene where Ace expounds on the true meaning of a long happy marriage as though he's been down that road when in reality, he's still a virtual newlywed himself. It was really lovely, but he just didn't seem like the right character for the speech. For me, the best part was the strong, suspenseful ending and a sweet epilogue. The mystery aspect of this story was good, and kept me guessing all the way to the reveal of a surprise villain, although I would say that Joseph's retelling of the whole story to Rachel in the second-to-last chapter was pretty dull and redundant. Also, Joseph's love letter to Rachel in his waning years was extremely romantic. Overall, this was just a light, easy read. While Joseph and Rachel were both certainly likable, I can't say that they really stood out to me. In my opinion, Catherine Anderson has a talent for writing heroes with more beta-like characteristics, but her alphas thus far have fallen rather flat for me. Joseph was definitely an alpha who could be very stubborn and even a bit prickly at times. He denied his feelings for Rachel for a large part of the story, constantly saying that he liked his freedom and had no intentions of marrying, but then rather suddenly proposed, which was another reason that the relationship was a little hard for me to believe. Joseph was very physically attracted to Rachel, but very adamant about not making love to her until they were married. While I found the sentiment to be commendable, the timing of his proposal almost made it seem like an excuse for sex, even though I know that wasn't the author's intention. Also Joseph was a very plain-spoken man who always said what was on his mind, which for some readers may be endearing, but didn't really do anything for me. Overall, Joseph was a good and admirable man, just not really my favorite kind of hero. I suppose that the agoraphobia made Rachel a very unique and rather memorable character, but other than that one aspect of her life, she just didn't stand out to me either. I think that part of it was once again the storytelling limitations due to her affliction that made her seem very ordinary and also her suppressed memories of her family's deaths made it difficult to get inside her head to fully understand her condition, as she never really expressed her feelings about the tragedy. Rachel was a sweet and lovely girl who I liked and wanted to connect with, but again just never completely did. The secondary cast was strong and varied. Readers get a decent visit with Ace and Caitlin from Keegan's Lady , as well as their son, little Ace. Joseph's other two brothers, David and Esa, play substantial roles, particularly David, who I would have guessed to be the next member of the family to get a story, but that is not to be the case. There was also a brief mention of Patrick (also from Keegan's Lady ) and Faith from the novella, Beautiful Gifts , and even a quick nod to Luke Taggert, the hero of Simply Love , a completely unrelated book except that they both take place in Colorado. I also liked the appearance of Tucker Coulter and his mother from the present day in the prologue and epilogue, and how Ms. Anderson used this story as an inspiration for his own future romance in Sun Kissed , though I agree with another reviewer who pointed out the oddity of the diary never being mentioned in the main body of the narrative. I really enjoyed Joseph's dog, Buddy, who was quite the character. I thought it was very cute how Joseph would talk to Buddy and Buddy would \u201ctalk\u201d back. Ms. Anderson has a talent for creating love not just for the young, but the young at heart too. I liked the secondary romance between Rachel's ranch foreman, Darby, and her spitfire aunt, Amanda. I thought this senior love story was very sweet, but also very sad that they had loved each other for decades and had basically been kept apart by a big misunderstanding. All the residents of No Name really came together in a loving show of frontier community oneness, when they each contributed to Rachel's courtyard, but one has to wonder why they didn't try to reach out to her sooner instead of leaving her to languish in solitude for five years. There was also the distasteful, bullying Pritchard clan who had a longstanding feud with Rachel's father. All in all this was a very well-rounded supporting cast, though I have to say that a few of them reminded me very strongly of some characters from the Little House on the Prairie television show, which makes me curious if that is where Ms. Anderson got her inspiration for them. Summer Breeze is the third story in the Keegan/Paxton Family series (aka Coulter Historicals ). It is preceded by Keegan's Lady and the novella, Beautiful Gifts , from the anthology, The True Love Wedding Dress . At present, Ms. Anderson is working on the next book in the series which will probably be released sometime late next year or in early 2010, and will feature Eden Paxton and Matthew Coulter. It appears that she also has plans to eventually write stories for David and Esa Paxton as well. Even though Summer Breeze was not one of Ms. Anderson's best novels, in my opinion, it was still a pleasurable read that was worth the time spent on it. I intend to continue this series when the next book comes out, and look forward to continuing my exploration Ms. Anderson's backlist until then. ...more This delightful historical romance about a rancher and an agoraphobic neighbor is heartwarming, sweet and funny. I'm writing this weeks after I read it, without the book in front of me, so names are escaping me but our hero isn't looking for a wife or love or any other frippery. He sees how happy his older step-brother is with his wife and son but likes not having complications. Running a ranch is complication enough. The young woman in question has retreated inside her home to the point where h This delightful historical romance about a rancher and an agoraphobic neighbor is heartwarming, sweet and funny. I'm writing this weeks after I read it, without the book in front of me, so names are escaping me but our hero isn't looking for a wife or love or any other frippery. He sees how happy his older step-brother is with his wife and son but likes not having complications. Running a ranch is complication enough. The young woman in question has retreated inside her home to the point where her whole world is no larger than her kitchen and bathroom. She hasn't stepped outside in nearly a decade, not since her entire family was murdered. She escaped by chance. But when her only friend, her ranch foreman, is shot in the back, she is forced to accept help for her neighbor and comes to realize that maybe her life isn't as dark as she has always believed. Watching her come out of her shell and into the light was lovely. ...more 4.5 stars because it was really slow at the beginning. But the story is so good, with that little child who suffered witnessing the deaths of all her family and began a great wonderful woman full of love and caring, it's worthing 5 stars! And the epilogue.... well it brought tears in my eyes! Very very sweet! I enjoyed this book a little more than the other one in this series. I now want a courtyard! :-) Joseph and Rachel -a forever kind of love. Summer Breeze is an absolutely wonderful book. I'm glad I decided to buy it after looking at it about 4 different times. At that point, I'd only read 1 of Anderson's books, about a year previously, and wasn't too sure if I liked her stories. Since then, I've grown to love them. This book is sort of set in the Coulter family series. The main Coulter books are set in the present, but she has now set a sub-series in the past that tells the stories of some of the ancestors. This book is the 2nd one i Summer Breeze is an absolutely wonderful book. I'm glad I decided to buy it after looking at it about 4 different times. At that point, I'd only read 1 of Anderson's books, about a year previously, and wasn't too sure if I liked her stories. Since then, I've grown to love them. This book is sort of set in the Coulter family series. The main Coulter books are set in the present, but she has now set a sub-series in the past that tells the stories of some of the ancestors. This book is the 2nd one in that sub-series - I haven't read the first. Anyway, I love this book. The storyline was fabulous. Very emotional. You're just sucked into the story and the characters' trials and tribulations. Rachel's pain and fear is very real, and a very plausible reaction to what she experienced. I enjoyed the introduction of Joseph into her life and how she dealt with that, and how he insinuated himself in her life. It was a very sweet, yet tragic, story. Everything that happened just worked, from the characters to the romance, to the plot. This is actually a frame story. The beginning starts off in the present, with the remaining unmarried Coulter son, Tucker, finding a journal in his parent's attic; Rachel's journal. He and his mother decide to read it and that's when the story shifts to the past. The last chapter moves back to the present and ends with Tucker's mother showing him a letter that had been passed on to her. The letter was one that Joseph had written to Rachel shortly before his death, after they'd been married for like 50+ years. It was an incredibly beautiful letter. I was pretty much sobbing. I usually don't like epilogues that jump way in the future and tell me how things ended with the couple. I don't like knowing how things end in that sense. I can't say I loved having it happen in this book, but it was still beautiful, and a wonderful representation of the love Rachel and Joseph found during the story. I think the only thing I can criticize a little about the book as a whole was that at times the historical authenticity seemed suspect. I can't say for sure. I'm not all that familiar with social-historical aspects of that time period. But a few things just didn't quite fit. It didn't take all that much away from the story, though. I could look past it. All in all...great, great book. I highly recommend it. ...more Rachel mendeka selama 5 tahun dan tidak pernah keluar dari dinding dapurnya karena setiap kali dia melangkah keluar, dirinya akan pingsan. Hidupnya tenang dengan kondisi seperti itu sampai dia bertemu dengan Joseph Paxton. Joseph berjanji kepada Darby untuk menjaga nonanya karena pria itu ditembak dari belakang dan sedang dalam proses penyembuhan di rumahnya. Sebenarnya dia agak menyesal karena Rachel adalah wanita gila. Namun, ketika dia pertama kali melihat wanita itu, dia sudah menginginkan Ra Rachel mendeka selama 5 tahun dan tidak pernah keluar dari dinding dapurnya karena setiap kali dia melangkah keluar, dirinya akan pingsan. Hidupnya tenang dengan kondisi seperti itu sampai dia bertemu dengan Joseph Paxton. Joseph berjanji kepada Darby untuk menjaga nonanya karena pria itu ditembak dari belakang dan sedang dalam proses penyembuhan di rumahnya. Sebenarnya dia agak menyesal karena Rachel adalah wanita gila. Namun, ketika dia pertama kali melihat wanita itu, dia sudah menginginkan Rachel. Joseph perlahan-lahan meruntuhkan pertahanan Rachel dan mereka berdua pun saling menguatkan. Dan ketika Darby mulai sembuh dari lukanya, Rachel semakin resah karena itu artinya Joseph akan meninggalkannya. Joseph sebenarnya tak ingin meninggalkan Rachel, tapi hanya satu cara agar dia dapat bersama wanita itu, yaitu menikahinya.... Duh, duh, duh.... CA emang tokcer abis. Beberapa kali aku tersentuh karena kebaikan Joseph dan orang-orang di kota kecil itu. Mereka semua sangat memerhatikan Rachel. Aku juga ikut sedih karena derita yang dialami Rachel itu. Tega banget ya ada orang melakukan hal itu. Ckckckckck... Sampai pertengahan buku, aku masih menebak-nebak siapa ya yang membunuh keluarga Rachel dan menembak Darby. Semua bukti sebenarnya mengarah ke satu orang ini. Tapi aku merasa bahwa bukan dia yang melakukannya, Joseph juga berpikiran seperti itu. Waktu lagi makan gitu, aku sambil mikir, ini siapa ya yang bunuh. Terus... tiba-tiba lampu menyala. Oh pantesan si Rachel teriak dan gak bisa menulis huruf itu. Ternyata ada keterkaitannya dengan sesuatu. Terus aku baru inget kalau...... ya pokoknya begitu lah, dan ternyata tebakanku benar. Sampai merinding juga pas nebak pembunuhnya =P Chemistry kedua karakter gak usah ditanyalah ya. Bagus deh. Tapi aku lebih suka Ace dan Caitlin sih buat romance-nya. Tapi untuk karakternya sendiri aku suka Joseph. Luar boleh beruang, tapi hati anak kucing. Hwhwhwhwhwhw... Overall, yah pokoknya siapin aja selembar tissue ya. Pas bagian Joseph membangun rumah untuk Rachel, aku berkaca-kaca. Pas bagian ending, surat Joseph beneran bikin air mataku mengalir. Hikssss... So sweet banget... Other reviews : www.resensiharlequin.com ...more Titolo: Summer Breeze Autore: Catherine Andreson Inedito in italiano Trama: 1889. Rachel Hollister non ha messo piede fuori di casa, un ranch in mezzo alle prateria, da ben 5 anni. Vive tra l'altro non nell'intera casa ma solo in una stanza e mezza e tiene barricato tutto il resto. Il terrore l'attanaglia al solo pensiero di uscire. Ma non \u00e8 sempre stasta cos\u00ec, tutto ebbe inizio cinque anni prima quando tutti i suoi famigliari durante un pic nic furono uccisi a colpi di pistola da un misterioso omi Titolo: Summer Breeze Autore: Catherine Andreson Inedito in italiano Trama: 1889. Rachel Hollister non ha messo piede fuori di casa, un ranch in mezzo alle prateria, da ben 5 anni. Vive tra l'altro non nell'intera casa ma solo in una stanza e mezza e tiene barricato tutto il resto. Il terrore l'attanaglia al solo pensiero di uscire. Ma non \u00e8 sempre stasta cos\u00ec, tutto ebbe inizio cinque anni prima quando tutti i suoi famigliari durante un pic nic furono uccisi a colpi di pistola da un misterioso omicida posto su un rilievo. Una ad uno caddero davanti ai suoi occhi ma la pallottola destinata a lei si limit\u00f2 a sfiorarla e farla svenire. Il colpevole dovette crederla morta e Rachel sopravvisse, ma da allora non \u00e8 pi\u00f9 uscita di casa. Sopravvive grazie ad un anziano ranchero che lavorava con i suoi e che le porta cibo e vende i suoi dolci, tramite una fessura tra le assi che barrano le porte. Poi per\u00f2 un giorno lui non viene al loro solito appuntamente asettimanale. E' stato ferito e al suo posto si presenta il giovane ranchero , un forestiero, che lo ha trovato e curato. Rachel dovr\u00e0 superare le sue paure e fidarsi di lui se viole sopravvivere..... anche perch\u00e8 chi ha ucciso la sua famiglia la tiene d'occhio e aspetta solo che lei esca per finire la partita. La mia opinione: avere una storia d'amore con un'agorafobica \u00e8 senza dubbio problematico. Il protaginista maschile impiega quasi mezo libro solo a convincerla a fidarsi di lui e farlo entrare nel suo regno e ci riesce in gran parte grazie al suo cane...e il fatto che sia carino pure lui non guasta di certo. Ho veramente ammirato la sua pazienza, il coraggio di Rachel e anche i suoi limiti che in fondo sono credibili. Un romanzo interessante, romantico ma anche pieno d'azione e introspezione, molto intimo con i due nostri eroi chiusi in casa all'oscuro di chi voglia uccidere Rachel. C'\u00e8 la tensione dei classici horror in ambiente chiuso, il romanticismo dei romanzi d'amore e una piccola indagine gialla. Insomma un piccolo libro che contine molte cose interessanti. Per legere qualcosa di gradevole e di diverso dal solito romance. A me \u00e8 piaciuto molto. ...more This book is nothing super remarkable. Standard Anderson fare; broken heroine, studly hero, love at first sight, lots of drama and a happily ever after. But I couldn't help liking it a bit anyway. Rachel's trauma is more than the usual Evil Ex or rape Anderson's heroines tend to be saddled with. Instead the poor woman's been hiding from the world since she watched her entire family die. She has trust issues with just about EVERYONE, and only lets Joseph into her house because she has no choice. A This book is nothing super remarkable. Standard Anderson fare; broken heroine, studly hero, love at first sight, lots of drama and a happily ever after. But I couldn't help liking it a bit anyway. Rachel's trauma is more than the usual Evil Ex or rape Anderson's heroines tend to be saddled with. Instead the poor woman's been hiding from the world since she watched her entire family die. She has trust issues with just about EVERYONE, and only lets Joseph into her house because she has no choice. After Darby the ranch-hand gets shot he's asked to look after her and of course, there's almost instantaneous attraction. Stuff happens, they get married, they find the real culprit (who makes a damsel in distress out of Rachel before he finally gets caught) and then the happily ever after (which, naturally, includes Rachel being cured of all her fears by The Power Of Love. That, and the culprit being dead). It has its moments of awesome. Rachel and Caitlin's friendship is adorable, and Rachel's happiness at seeing her again is pretty heartwarming. The love scenes between Rachel and Joseph are some of the best I've ever read, flowery as they are, and their love story is overwrought with emotional sap but still manages to be endearing. And I admit I liked the bookends with Tucker Coulter and his mother thinking about Joseph and Rachel's story, and Tucker thinking he should visit No Name to find true love. (I also found it sort of neat that it was a red herring in Sun Kissed, where Tucker laments that even a trip to that place couldn't bring him the magic he was seeking.) Amanda's story, though...I know it was a different time, but it still BOTHERED me how she was kept from the man she loved because of her dad being a sexist asshole. But at least she and Darby got to have their long-awaited happily ever after near the end, too. I actually own this book. I bought it solely for the historical setting and the love scenes. It's not my favorite, but it's not as teeth-grating as Sun Kissed was. ...more Anderson frames this sweet historical love story with a prologue and epilogue set in modern 2006 where a family member comes across the diary of Rachel Hollister and Joseph Paxton, allowing the modern reader to travel back in time just as the family member does. Although she does a good job of describing the small Colorado town, ranch life, and community ties, she doesn't bog the reader down with minute details of any specific tasks. Instead she concentrates on the feelings and emotions of Rache Anderson frames this sweet historical love story with a prologue and epilogue set in modern 2006 where a family member comes across the diary of Rachel Hollister and Joseph Paxton, allowing the modern reader to travel back in time just as the family member does. Although she does a good job of describing the small Colorado town, ranch life, and community ties, she doesn't bog the reader down with minute details of any specific tasks. Instead she concentrates on the feelings and emotions of Rachel and Joseph individually, as they resist each other, as well as those between them as they fall in love. Emotion and love are much more developed than the sex scenes, which are much more romantic than erotic. Secondary characters, especially family members, are equally as important to the story, and Anderson develops them well without overpowering the main two characters. The author even incorporates family dogs and Mark Twain's The Adventures of Tom Sawyer as a character element. The pace is surprisingly quick, since there is a great deal of action surrounding Rachel's agoraphobia, the murder suspects, and the romance. Although the mystery is part of the story, the romance overshadows it, and there is little jarring suspense. The specific Colorado setting comes into play a little, although there is definitely a strong Western atmosphere to the book. The mood is tender, sweet, and innocent throughout, and Anderson almost employs a somewhat moral tone, since Joseph refuses to have his way with Rachel until they are properly married. ...more It was a good read. I give 1 star for the book title and 1 star for the epilogue\u2019s letter. The mystery and suspense were perfectly played out. From the start I know the killer isn\u2019t obvious one, but I couldn\u2019t guess either. The Author did a great job to build Rachel and Joseph characters and the chemistry between them is great. The bonding of these characters was built slowly and I am glad author didn\u2019t rush for it. Overall, it\u2019s a beautiful romance story. This woman is so helpless, which kind of annoyed me. But have no fear, there's a strong, compassionate cowboy to save the day! 3.5 Stars The main Character Rachel Hollister's family was violently killed years back. It's now 1889 and she's finally stepping out of her comfort zone. She meets a bachelor named Joseph Paxton and he lives with her for a while even though she doesn't necessarily want him there. It's a love story. A romance novel about a troubled girl with a tragic past and a handsome bachelor that won't take no for an answer. He makes it his mission to help her and comfort her and for a long while, she's won't have any The main Character Rachel Hollister's family was violently killed years back. It's now 1889 and she's finally stepping out of her comfort zone. She meets a bachelor named Joseph Paxton and he lives with her for a while even though she doesn't necessarily want him there. It's a love story. A romance novel about a troubled girl with a tragic past and a handsome bachelor that won't take no for an answer. He makes it his mission to help her and comfort her and for a long while, she's won't have any part of it. It's a lovely story and even though I read it in the winter, it's a perfect springtime or summertime story to read while sitting outside. I would recommend it to anyone that loves a good romance novel from way back when. Anyone that loves to read and get whisked away to another reality that is not their own would fall in love with this heartwarming book that can bring you to tears or make you smile from ear to ear in the in the blink of an eye. It's the best book i've gotten from a used bookstore for $2.25. ...more Basically, this was me while reading this book. I started this book thinking that it was going to be Tucker's story. After I finished reading My Sunshine , I figured that I'd be learning more about the older twin. I probably should have read the description of the book but sometimes, I like to feel adventurous and just dive into a book without any idea as to what I'm getting myself into. I'm getting a sense of Catherine Anderson's theme when writing books - and those of you who've read her books a Basically, this was me while reading this book. I started this book thinking that it was going to be Tucker's story. After I finished reading My Sunshine , I figured that I'd be learning more about the older twin. I probably should have read the description of the book but sometimes, I like to feel adventurous and just dive into a book without any idea as to what I'm getting myself into. I'm getting a sense of Catherine Anderson's theme when writing books - and those of you who've read her books are probably rolling your eyes at me, but discovering a new author (to me) is always exciting and any new revelation is a big deal! So the book starts off with Tucker in the attic of his momma's home, rummaging through a box when he comes across a diary written decades before his time - when his great-great-great-great (I have no idea how many 'greats' there are here) grandmother, Rachel was still pretty young. As he goes on, he starts to notice subtle differences in the writing and pretty soon, he realizes that his great-great-great-however-many-greats grandfather, Joseph, has taken over. The book officially starts here, at the first time that Joseph meets Rachel. It's such a sweet story. Rachel suffers from agoraphobia. After the massacre of her family, where she was the only one to survive, she's barred herself inside her family home, fearing open spaces and never daring to venture outside her front door. The man who'd been helping her for the past five years had gotten shot and in his stead, while he recovers, he's sent Joseph Paxton over to make sure that Rachel is protected. The entire town of No Name knows her, knows her reputation, knows what's happened. Naturally, because she's secluded herself in the house, everyone has gotten the impression that Rachel is -- well, crazy . But after a while, and with the help of his dog, Joseph learns that Rachel isn't crazy - just frightened. Especially since whoever killed her family all those years ago, seems to be determined to finish what he started. So he spends each day with her, breaking through her walls, learning to help her cope a lot more easily with her phobia and pretty soon, he has the entire town involved. Despite their initial opinion that she's mentally unhinged, the entire town come together to help her out as much as they can in the hopes that their efforts will help her eventually walk out into the open air. This book isn't a Hallmark card though, even if I'm making it sound like it is. You get a glimpse into the past, seeing the entire massacre of her family through Rachel's eyes. Catherine helps you understand her fear, and when her killer comes THATMUCHCLOSER to killing her, it's upsetting. Suffice it to say, this book was engaging, nerve-wracking, and wonderful. Just. Wonderful. ...more Wow!! siapa sangka buku pertama yang berhasil ditamatkan tahun ini adalah buku karangan Catherine Anderson. Sampai sebelum bulan November tahun lalu kalaupun ditanya ngga bakalah \"ngeh\" siapa Catherine Anderson, boro2 baca bukunya. Tp seorang teman memberi buku ini sebagai kado ulang tahun dan entah knp membaca sinopsisnya tertarik utk mulai membaca bukunya. Ceritanya tentang seorang gadis bernama Rachel Hollister yang setelah pembantaian yang dialami keluarganya menjadi trauma berat dgn dunia l Wow!! siapa sangka buku pertama yang berhasil ditamatkan tahun ini adalah buku karangan Catherine Anderson. Sampai sebelum bulan November tahun lalu kalaupun ditanya ngga bakalah \"ngeh\" siapa Catherine Anderson, boro2 baca bukunya. Tp seorang teman memberi buku ini sebagai kado ulang tahun dan entah knp membaca sinopsisnya tertarik utk mulai membaca bukunya. Ceritanya tentang seorang gadis bernama Rachel Hollister yang setelah pembantaian yang dialami keluarganya menjadi trauma berat dgn dunia luar dan bersembunyi dlm dunianya sendiri di dalam rumahnya, mengurung dirinya sendiri dengan palang dan dinding tebal. Suatu hari mandor peternakan Rachel, Darby yg selama 5 thn ini selalu menjaganya ditembak dan terluka parah. Darby minta pertolongan pd Joseph Paxton dan berhasil membuat Joseph berjanji utk melindungi Rachel selama Darby dirawat krn Darby yakin bahwa yg menembaknya adalah orang yg sama dgn yg membantai keluarga Rachel 5 thn yang lalu. Pd awalnya Joseph tdk terlalu senang harus menjaga Rachel yg menurut desas desus menjadi agak gila setelah kematian keluarganya. Belum lg sambutan Rachel juga tdk ramah. Rachel yg selama 5 thn terakhir tdk pernah bergaul dgn orang luar membuatnya sulit mempercayai orang lain selain Darby. Tetapi lambat laun, Rachel mulai mempercayai Joseph. Apalagi setelah Rachel bertemu dgn kakak Joseph, Ace dan istrinya Catlin. Joseph sendiri menyadari pelan2 dia tertarik pd Rachel yg ternyata sama sekali tidak gila dan adalah seorang gadis yg cantik dan baik tetapi sangat menderita akibat pembantaian keluarganya. Tetapi Joseph adalah pria bebas yg tdk ingin menikah dan gadis baik2 seperti Rachel tdk boleh berakhir dgn pria seperti dirinya. Bisakah Joseph dan Rachel mengakui bahwa mereka memang saling mencintai? dan siapakah dalang dr pembantaian keluarga Rachel? dan mampukah Rachel mengatasi fobianya? Walaupun bergenre historical romance, tp buku ini tdk berlatar bangsawan Inggris seperti HR pada umumnya, melainkan daerah peternakan dan pertanian di Colorado, Amerika, lengkap dengan cowboy dan bot serta stetsonnya. Ceritanya juga berjalan cukup cepat. Suka juga dgn penceritaan tokoh2 lain selain tokoh utama yg pada akhirnya memang mempunyai benang merah dgn keseluruhan jalan cerita dan membuat kita menebak-nebak sampai di akhir siapa pembunuh sebenarnya dan apa motifnya. Empat bintang utk Summer Breeze. Highly recommended utk yang suka genre HR tp dengan sentuhan misteri di dalamnya. ...more Penduduk No Name mengenal Rachel Hollister sebagai perempuan gila yang tak pernah keluar rumah sejak kejadian penembakan yang menewaskan seluruh keluarganya. Peternakan yang diwarisi dari kematian kedua orangtuanya secara mendadak kini hanya dijalankan oleh Darby, mandor yang tak pernah tega meninggalkan Rachel sendirian. Ketika sedang memeriksa area peternakan Hollister Darby ditembak oleh orang tak dikenal. Merasa si penembak bakal memburu Rachel, dalam keadaan terluka Darby datang ke pertenaka Penduduk No Name mengenal Rachel Hollister sebagai perempuan gila yang tak pernah keluar rumah sejak kejadian penembakan yang menewaskan seluruh keluarganya. Peternakan yang diwarisi dari kematian kedua orangtuanya secara mendadak kini hanya dijalankan oleh Darby, mandor yang tak pernah tega meninggalkan Rachel sendirian. Ketika sedang memeriksa area peternakan Hollister Darby ditembak oleh orang tak dikenal. Merasa si penembak bakal memburu Rachel, dalam keadaan terluka Darby datang ke pertenakan tetangga untuk meminta bantuan. Tetangga terdekatnya si koboi Joseph Paxton. Joseph sadar jika ia berjanji pada Darby untuk mengawasi Rachel. Tapi keputusan itu segera disesalinya ketika datang ke peternakan Hollister Joseph langsung disambut oleh tembakan dari dalam rumah induk. Siapa lagi yang menembaknya selain Rachel. Walau perkenalan pertama mereka kurang begitu mulus tapi Joseph tetap ngotot untuk tinggal bersama Rachel. Disaat itulah ia mengerti trauma yang selalu menghantui Rachel paska penembakan keluarganya. Rachel tidak gila, ia hanya berusaha melindungi dirinya sendiri. Kehadiran Joseph di rumah Rachel menjadi gosip hangat bagi beberapa orang di kota. Tindakan yang dilakukan Joseph sungguh tak pantas. Tapi disisi lain warga No Namre mulai berpikir untuk membantu Rachel meringankan traumanya. Membantu Rachel agar ia bisa keluar rumah, menghirup udara segar dan melihat matahari lagi. Kegiatan yang tak pernah dilakukan Rachel sejak kejadian penembakan keluarganya. Sepanjang membaca buku ini saya sukses me-melow memikirkan keadaan Rachel. Kasihan banget. Dan makin me-melow ketika penduduk No Name bahu-membahu membuatkan teras kecil dan kerangkeng spesial buat Rachel supaya Rachel bisa keluar rumah tanpa merasa ketakutan. Ceritanya ringan tapi manis. Tepat sesuai dengan endorse yang terdapat di pembatas buku yang diambil dari goodreads \"kisah yang memiliki saat-saat yang menakjubkan, persahabatan yang manis, jalinan cinta yang emosional tapi romantis, dan akhir yang menghangatkan hati.\" Dibeberapa tempat masih rajin dijumpai typo. Cover terbitan Dastan pun tak terlalu menarik untuk dipandang. Hanya nama besar Catherine Anderson dan sinopsisnya yang membuat saya tertarik untuk membeli dan membaca buku ini. Seandainya saja tim artistik Dastan mau bekerja lebih keras lagi untuk urusan cover. @Medan 29102013 ...more Lindo! A continua\u00e7\u00e3o da s\u00e9rie Coulter Historical \u00e9 emocionante. O livro come\u00e7a com Tucker Coulter \u2013 protagonista de Um Beijo Ardente (edi\u00e7\u00e3o portuguesa), encontrando o di\u00e1rio de Rachel Paxton Hollister e Joseph Paxton \u2013 irm\u00e3o da sua bisav\u00f3 Ed\u00e9n Coulter (ela tamb\u00e9m seu livro \u2013 louca para ler). A hist\u00f3ria de Rachel e Joseph \u00e9 encantadora, muito rom\u00e2ntica e cheia de supera\u00e7\u00e3o. Rachel \u00e9 uma jovem que sofria de s\u00edndrome do p\u00e2nico, e fazia cinco anos que ela morava sozinha na sua casa, totalmente tran Lindo! A continua\u00e7\u00e3o da s\u00e9rie Coulter Historical \u00e9 emocionante. O livro come\u00e7a com Tucker Coulter \u2013 protagonista de Um Beijo Ardente (edi\u00e7\u00e3o portuguesa), encontrando o di\u00e1rio de Rachel Paxton Hollister e Joseph Paxton \u2013 irm\u00e3o da sua bisav\u00f3 Ed\u00e9n Coulter (ela tamb\u00e9m seu livro \u2013 louca para ler). A hist\u00f3ria de Rachel e Joseph \u00e9 encantadora, muito rom\u00e2ntica e cheia de supera\u00e7\u00e3o. Rachel \u00e9 uma jovem que sofria de s\u00edndrome do p\u00e2nico, e fazia cinco anos que ela morava sozinha na sua casa, totalmente trancada, e n\u00e3o via a luz do sol. Todas as suas necessidades eram providas pelo seu fiel funcion\u00e1rio Darby. Ele construiu para ela um mundo seguro, dentre de suas paredes. Rachel adoeceu dessa forma desde quando sua fam\u00edlia foi brutalmente executada, seus pais e irm\u00e3os, e ela levou um tiro na cabe\u00e7a. Ao retornar do coma, ela se viu incapaz de interagir com o mundo exterior. Mas tudo isso muda com Darby \u00e9 ferido e Joseph se encarrega de cuidar de Rachel. O encontro n\u00e3o \u00e9 nada amistoso, ela o recebe com uma arma e demora significativamente para ele ganhar a sua confian\u00e7a. Essa parte inicial \u00e9 um pouco lenta, mas quando eles come\u00e7am a perceber que nada seria igual a partir de ent\u00e3o diante do sentimento m\u00fatuo que cresce, a hist\u00f3ria me conquistou. Joseph faz todo o poss\u00edvel para cuidar das necessidades de Rachel diante da possibilidade do assassino da fam\u00edlia querer finalmente mat\u00e1-la. Enquanto as investiga\u00e7\u00f5es s\u00e3o feitas, Joseph e toda a comunidade ajuda Rachel, construindo um p\u00e1tio para ela poder ver a luz do sol. Essa parte \u00e9 linda. Joseph era um solteir\u00e3o convicto, um mulherengo assumido, muito orgulhoso do seu \u201cOld Glory\u201d (rsrs s\u00f3 lendo para saber o que \u00e9 isso), mas quando ele cai de amor, \u00e9 muito lindinho, sem falar que a recupera\u00e7\u00e3o de Rachel \u00e9 sutil e surpreendente. Ainda, a hist\u00f3ria tem um suspense bem amarrado em torno do assassino da fam\u00edlia Hollister, um final tenso, e um ep\u00edlogo de arrancar l\u00e1grimas. Ah, Buddy, o cachorro de Joseph, \u00e9 um personagem muito, muito especial. Adorei.\" http://www.skoob.com.br/estante/livro... ...more Background: The story captures a Colorado rancher - Joseph, who makes a promise to a friend who was just shot in the back. The friend - Darby - is the hired help of his agoraphobic neighbor Rachel. Darby is convinced that the person who shot him, is the same person (or somehow connected) to the shooting of Rachel's mother, father, sister, brother, and dog 5 years earlier, and now fears that Rachel is in danger. Joseph agrees to watch Rachel. Joseph's brother David is the sheriff and all the whil Background: The story captures a Colorado rancher - Joseph, who makes a promise to a friend who was just shot in the back. The friend - Darby - is the hired help of his agoraphobic neighbor Rachel. Darby is convinced that the person who shot him, is the same person (or somehow connected) to the shooting of Rachel's mother, father, sister, brother, and dog 5 years earlier, and now fears that Rachel is in danger. Joseph agrees to watch Rachel. Joseph's brother David is the sheriff and all the while is trying to piece Darby's shooting and the massacre of Rachel's family together. My Review: This book actually starts in present time - Tucker Coulter and his mom find Rachel's diary and the story jumps back to the 1800's and so the real story begins. Joseph Paxton is Tucker's great uncle (brother to his great grandmother Eden). Now I will preface by saying I realllly enjoyed the book overall though there were a few things that bothered me/could have been done better. The story begins with Darby getting shot in the first chapter - this is fine, but there didn't seem to be much urgency to him being shot. I think this could have been put more into perspective by making it out to be a bigger deal - getting shot back in the 1800's was usually a death sentence. Then Joseph agrees to watch Rachel because Darby thinks she's in danger. This went well and great, and the actual meeting of Rachel and Joseph was well written. Another thing that bothered by was that Joseph made the comment to Rachel to not trust him, no matter what, he's not the marrying kind, he is a buffet man, etc. This really doesn't get addressed later - he denies his feelings for Rachel most of the book. Him coming to realize he's in love with her could have been better done - along with addressing how he said he's not the marrying kind and to never trust him. I really did enjoy the book overall, it's very true to Anderson form. ...more Some people love Catherine Anderson and some people aren't as impressed. I have accumulated a few of her novels over time, mainly from bulk lots on eBay. But, I had never gotten around to reading any of them. When another book club site featured C A as author of the month, I thought I would try to work one into my reading plan. Obviously, I got a late start. This book is evidently a part of a series, but can be read as a stand alone. The book starts off in present day with the discovery of an old Some people love Catherine Anderson and some people aren't as impressed. I have accumulated a few of her novels over time, mainly from bulk lots on eBay. But, I had never gotten around to reading any of them. When another book club site featured C A as author of the month, I thought I would try to work one into my reading plan. Obviously, I got a late start. This book is evidently a part of a series, but can be read as a stand alone. The book starts off in present day with the discovery of an old diary written by an ancestor in the 1800's. The story is about what is written in the diary. Rachel's entire family was murdered while on a family picnic. Rachel survived, but has spent five years in her home, living in one room with all the windows boards up etc. One day her ranch hand and sole caretaker is shot and this sends Joseph to Rachel's door. The whole town thinks Rachel is crazy and Joseph has no idea what to expect. Nothing could have prepared him for what he saw. But, Joseph promised Darcy he would take care of Rachel so he sets out to stay with her whether she wants him to or not. Today we would diagnose Rachel's illness as agoraphobia. But, I thought she maybe had PTSD as well. Rachel and Joseph's romance was especially sweet because of all the problems she had. Joseph doesn't want a wife, but is in love before he knows what hit him. The author may have spent a bit too much time describing the environment Rachel lived in and the constant repairs being done. This slowed the story down and at times I was tempted to just skim. The mystery of who killed Rachel's parents and shot Darcy was the most interesting part, for me. I also liked Darcy and Amanda's story, even though it was sad. Yes, I can see where some might find this story a little sugary. It's not usually my cup of tea either. But, I enjoyed it alright. It wasn't overly emotional, just a bit sentimental at the end. Overall a C + ...more So good. A seemingly unbelievable plot become a truly wonderful story - how Rachel ended up in a boarded up room and how Joe helps her break out. I particularly liked how the brothers interacted and that helping Rachel was not something Joe could do on his own, but his whole family helped - even the dogs and the baby! I loved the discussion between Joe and Ace about what love is and how it endures past the \"excitement\" stage. I was particularly struck by the fact that Joe was willing to live wit So good. A seemingly unbelievable plot become a truly wonderful story - how Rachel ended up in a boarded up room and how Joe helps her break out. I particularly liked how the brothers interacted and that helping Rachel was not something Joe could do on his own, but his whole family helped - even the dogs and the baby! I loved the discussion between Joe and Ace about what love is and how it endures past the \"excitement\" stage. I was particularly struck by the fact that Joe was willing to live with Rachel even thinking that she would never get over her phobias. He figured out ways to make things 'safe' for her, but livable for him. So sweet. The mystery about who killed Rachel's family and who shot Darby worked for me. It was something not easy to figure out, but believable in the end. Edited to add a couple of comments from reading other reviews. There is some mention of people trying to help Rachel early on - and obviously the doctor does treat her for the gunshot wound, but it seems like she was pretty far gone. Darby describes her as basically catatonic until he blocked off the room for her, and Caitlyn said she stopped by and left gifts, but wasn't let in. It seems like until Joseph was there to be her intermediary, no one could figure out how to help. Darby was really just trying to keep her alive seems like. Also, I doubt he had any idea how to help her overcome her fears. He did what he could, but until the murderer was caught there was no way she could get past anything. I loved that he loved her and was willing to do what he needed to live with her even with her condition. ...more Oh Catherine Anderson, thank you! I don't know why I took so long to check this book out. I had been wasting my time on a book that wasn't very good and then remembered this was on my list of \"to-read\". Oh man, I wish I read this book sooner! This book is one of the reasons why this is one of my favorite authors! Beautiful story about Rachel who is traumatized after a family tragedy and is unable to leave her house, having a severe case of agoraphobia. (Needing boarded up windows and doors as wel Oh Catherine Anderson, thank you! I don't know why I took so long to check this book out. I had been wasting my time on a book that wasn't very good and then remembered this was on my list of \"to-read\". Oh man, I wish I read this book sooner! This book is one of the reasons why this is one of my favorite authors! Beautiful story about Rachel who is traumatized after a family tragedy and is unable to leave her house, having a severe case of agoraphobia. (Needing boarded up windows and doors as well) Then when the old ranch hand that takes care of her is shot, Joseph, her neighbor, is sent to protect her. (And she is in danger...) Initially, she is fearful of Joseph, but she eventually comes to trust and depend on him. From there, a beautiful love story develops. And finally one day, Rachel is able to step outside. I was just so sad when this book ended because I wanted more of it! One thing I will say...the prologue might be kind of unusual if you're not familiar with CA's Coulter family books. It starts off with them discovering Rachel's journal. It ends with them learning how Joseph and Rachel's love story progressed with a love letter 95-year-old Joseph wrote to his wife before he died. Oh, such a beautiful love story! And Catherine has such a wonderful ability to make the characters use language that I imagine people really spoke in the late 1800s. I don't think I could do that, but Catherine does a great job. Thank you, Catherine, for another great story! Now I need to check out Ace and Caitlin's story! ...more Catherine Anderson breezes through this book with a sense of classic romance and genuine characters. Synopsis: This is a historical Coulter family romance (1889) about a woman named Rachel who, after surviving the massacre of her family (and her own bullet to the head), has lived as an agoraphobe. Joseph Paxton (the second brother in the family after Ace Keegan in Keegan's Lady), is given the responsibility of caring for her. The resulting story is typical of Anderson's \"heal the soul\" type of st Catherine Anderson breezes through this book with a sense of classic romance and genuine characters. Synopsis: This is a historical Coulter family romance (1889) about a woman named Rachel who, after surviving the massacre of her family (and her own bullet to the head), has lived as an agoraphobe. Joseph Paxton (the second brother in the family after Ace Keegan in Keegan's Lady), is given the responsibility of caring for her. The resulting story is typical of Anderson's \"heal the soul\" type of story telling complete with the massacre mastermind still at large leaving Joseph with the job of trying to protect and heal Rachel at the same time. Okay, here's what I love about this story and makes it a Summer Read beyond the fact that it is called Summer Breeze. The main characters Rachel and Joseph are just easy to love. They're sensitive to each other's needs and, in an amazingly different plot twist, manage to romance each other through an actual, physical wall (rather than the usual metaphorical emotional wall). The simple moments the main characters share are both \"squee\" worthy and softly colored. Anderson also manages to work in cutely funny moments. It's, quite simply, an easy, familiar, and happy read. When you're done, you're just happy you read the story. There's a kind of epic quality to the story, too, that gets added by the frame narrative of the later generations of the Coulter family who are reading about the story in a diary. It makes everyone want to dig through their Grandma's attics. bookswithbenefits.com ...more 4.5 Catherine Anderson never fails me so far. Her book was so enchanting I couldn't stop myself reading it. The characters were all awesome, from the main characters to the side characters. Anyway, the story started with Joseph had to look out for Rachel. She had an acute phobia of outdoors when all her family was killed when they had picnic. He had to break the window when he made his way inside. Rachel was afraid, at first. But slowly, she started to trust him and feel lonely when he was not aro 4.5 Catherine Anderson never fails me so far. Her book was so enchanting I couldn't stop myself reading it. The characters were all awesome, from the main characters to the side characters. Anyway, the story started with Joseph had to look out for Rachel. She had an acute phobia of outdoors when all her family was killed when they had picnic. He had to break the window when he made his way inside. Rachel was afraid, at first. But slowly, she started to trust him and feel lonely when he was not around. Joseph also started to feel something for her, but he was afraid his feeling would change. He didn't want to hurt her by taking her then breaking her heart. He then took his time to analyze his feeling. If he wanted to say \"I love you\", he had to be sure that feeling wouldn't change. After talking with his brother, he finally certain of his feeling and proposed her. She accepted, of course, since she fell for him long ago. He also did a lot of things to make her feel comfortable, by making her a new iron door as her barricade and garden with walls, since she was still afraid of outdoors. All seemed well, but the killer of her family still haunted them sometimes. Really lovable H/h. What he did for Rachel was really touching. He did everything he could to make her happy. The villagers were also very nice people. Even though there was some rumor about Rachel went mad, they still did things they could to make her feel the sunshine, bird tweeting and wind breeze she once loved. Couldn't asked for more. ...more Of Course 5 sparkling stars for mr Joseph Paxton and mrs Rachel Hollister. Dari denah pohon leluhur yang ada di halaman pertama buku, tahu kalo JosEPH Paxton dan Rachel Hollister ini buyut buyutnya keluarga Coulter. Aku ingat tentang Bethany Coulter yang lumpuh setengah badan dan harus berada di kursi roda, menjaga kasir toko keluarga Coulter hingga akhirnya bertemu Ryan Kendrick yang sudah terpikat dan tidak.gentar saat tau Bethany cacat. Di buku ini dibuka oleh Tucker Coulter, anak ke 3 dari k Of Course 5 sparkling stars for mr Joseph Paxton and mrs Rachel Hollister. Dari denah pohon leluhur yang ada di halaman pertama buku, tahu kalo JosEPH Paxton dan Rachel Hollister ini buyut buyutnya keluarga Coulter. Aku ingat tentang Bethany Coulter yang lumpuh setengah badan dan harus berada di kursi roda, menjaga kasir toko keluarga Coulter hingga akhirnya bertemu Ryan Kendrick yang sudah terpikat dan tidak.gentar saat tau Bethany cacat. Di buku ini dibuka oleh Tucker Coulter, anak ke 3 dari keluarga Coulter yang lagi ngobrak ngabrik rumahnya dan menemukan buku harian Rachel Hollister dan ditulis bersama sama juga dengan suaminya, Joseph Paxton. Jadi Rachel yang takut berada diluar rumah hingga ia membangun sebuah penjara untuk dirinya sendiri panik mendapati ada lelaki asing menyantroni rumahnya. Joseph Paxton ini. Dia datang juga bukan tanpa alasan loh. Barusan mandor dari peternakan Hollister, Darby, ditemukan tertembak dan memohon Joseph untuk menjaga Rachel. Rachel ini saksi hidup dari penembakan seluruh anggota keluarga Hollister saat mereka sedang piknik di dekat sungai kecil. Saking shocknya, Rachel jadi gampang blackout, susah napas dan takut keluar rumah. Pas Joseph masuk aja karena saking paniknya Rachel sampai menembak palang di pintunya dan malah menimbulkan lubang besar. Dibagian sini lucu abis! Kerennya buku ini, penjahatnya baru ketahuan terakhir terakhir, bahkan penjahatnya sesuatu yang nggak pernah aku sangka. buagus deh pokoknua ...more I just found catherine anderson novels in my country Indonesia 6 mths ago. I read it randomly coz' the book strore who sell didn't supply completely. I love coulter/harrigan/kendrick series very much. I can't describe it. I just feel it. and the feel that I got come inside to my bones. summer breeze and phantom waltz that finnaly \"squeeze\" my tears till I can't open my eyes somewhere in the morning :( what make me love coulter/harigan/kendrick so much coz catherine describe the best of family bon I just found catherine anderson novels in my country Indonesia 6 mths ago. I read it randomly coz' the book strore who sell didn't supply completely. I love coulter/harrigan/kendrick series very much. I can't describe it. I just feel it. and the feel that I got come inside to my bones. summer breeze and phantom waltz that finnaly \"squeeze\" my tears till I can't open my eyes somewhere in the morning :( what make me love coulter/harigan/kendrick so much coz catherine describe the best of family bones ever. I live in the big family but I still can't feel that family bones. I just dream of it. and than this series knock me out and advice me that family bones have to be feel it not ask for it. and also family bones is about to give example not to give complain. My big appreciate to catherine anderson who make fiction into real ( I feel that real ). right now I dont know if there is catherine anderson community/group fans, I want to join so much. and in the end I dream that can talk/chat to her to say about my feel to all her masterpice. thanks to Goodreads to provide this forum. hope Goodreads always have prosperity in entirely time. my name Rosa and my email address : rosada8888@gmail.com. I hope I can have chat with catherine anderson fans out there. note : Appologies for my words, since my grammar not to good, I hope all readers understand my comment. ...more Rating 3.5 Some of this was good, some of the novel was irritating. I very much enjoyed Joseph and his sayings and the way he talked. I also enjoyed the relationship he had with his brothers. What I found annoying is the moralizing about hard work and Rachel being a \"lady\". Joseph's opinion that his hired hands will just laze around without his supervision I found very patronizing. Most people have pride in their work and pride in themselves so Joseph's opinions became annoying. You would have th Rating 3.5 Some of this was good, some of the novel was irritating. I very much enjoyed Joseph and his sayings and the way he talked. I also enjoyed the relationship he had with his brothers. What I found annoying is the moralizing about hard work and Rachel being a \"lady\". Joseph's opinion that his hired hands will just laze around without his supervision I found very patronizing. Most people have pride in their work and pride in themselves so Joseph's opinions became annoying. You would have thought only Paxtons were hard working and upstanding citizens. Also, in my reading of historical westerns it is really beginning to bother me the double standard between the sexuality of men and women. Why is it that men have \"needs\" even outside of marriage, while women can only experience their sexuality when married, otherwise to do so outside of marriage they are considered whores? Joseph Paxton certainly believed this and it influenced his relationship with Rachel. Why women bought into this crap I can't figure out. Thank heavens for the free love revolution of the sixties, birth control pills, and women's liberation, to get rid of most of this double standard. Yes, women can enjoy sex outside of marriage and not be a whore!! ...more", "Title": "Summer Breeze"},
