{"Comments": "I was very pleasantly surprised by this book. I took it because I didn\u2019t know what to read next. I thought it will be some shallow romance story, but I was wrong. This book is great! It has everything: interesting plot (constantly something happens,<---M> this book is full of events</---M>, the plot doesn\u2019t drag on), great characters (I loved narration from different points of view here, you get to know a whole palette of amazing characters) and quality \u2013 it\u2019s very important that the book is well written, an I was very pleasantly surprised by this book. I took it because I didn\u2019t know what to read next. I thought it will be some shallow romance story, but I was wrong. This book is great! It has everything: interesting plot (constantly something happens, this book is full of events, the plot doesn\u2019t drag on), great characters (I loved narration from different points of view here, you get to know a whole palette of amazing characters) and quality \u2013 it\u2019s very important that the book is well written, and here the author obviously knew what she was doing. Ms. Quinn studied her material well before writing. The result is a great book, with depth, that will entertain you and make you both sad and happy\u2026 It\u2019s a book about human destiny, fight for survival set in the time of Roman Empire. ...more The first time I realized I loved reading was when I was eight and had finished reading The Vicar of Wakefield . I still remember the feeling I had when I clutched the book in my hand and declared I loved reading. It was not because the particular book in question was extraordinary, regardless of its status as a classic, but it was the first time a book has completely captured my attention that everything else seemed pale in comparison. I have read a number of books after this one and loved a few The first time I realized I loved reading was when I was eight and had finished reading The Vicar of Wakefield . I still remember the feeling I had when I clutched the book in my hand and declared I loved reading. It was not because the particular book in question was extraordinary, regardless of its status as a classic, but it was the first time a book has completely captured my attention that everything else seemed pale in comparison. I have read a number of books after this one and loved a few of them immensely but it was not until I read <+++>Mistress of Rome</+++> that the same feeling captured me again. I was looking for a book in the historical literature recommendation section for my mother and by chance I caught her exclaiming that this one looks like a promising read. I didn't give much heed to this book at the time but checked out the book for my mother's sake. Before I knew it I was reading this book and was so entranced by the story that I forgot the fact that I was not planning on reading it in the first place. But these spontaneous spur of the moment decision yields the most surprising results as I am convinced that this book is a rare gem I would have missed otherwise. The story transports us to an era and place which is well known yet shrouded in mystery. It takes us to ancient Rome and tells us the story of a Jewish slave girl called Thea. Her abuses at the hands of her ever spiteful and jealous mistress Lepida Pollia. Her true love for the gladiator Arius the Barbarian. The way she deals with the every twist and turns the fates throw at her ultimately leading to her rise as she become the mistress of Roman Emperor Domnitian and there by the mistress of Rome.<---F> It was truly a remarkable read</---F>. It goes without saying that I liked Thea's character but I loved Arius the Barbarian as well. The way he fought to keep his demons passive. His fighting in the Arena, his love for Thea and above all his strength to stand against an empire bend on seeing his death. The love story between this two survivors is heart wrenching and it draws you in with its simplistic charm. The life of the Roman people portrayed in this book are not far fetched or unbelieving. Every twist had a possible feel to it. The best part of the book though were those parts narrated from the point of view of Lepida. Now there is a character that will stay in your memory for a very long time. Evil in form of a person or more conveniently Evil personified as a female owing to Emperor Domitian who is a strong contender for that former title. But while the emperor's evilness can be accounted for in his insanity Lepida's was from deep with in her soul. I loved reading about her little schemes and the way she manipulated the people around her for her means. Her spoiled and self absorbed narration made me wish for her downfall so badly that it became a big reason for my preoccupation with this book. Towards the end I was so tensed that I even thought of skipping a couple of pages ahead to learn the outcome before hand but was able to restrain my self as the story moved on in a fast pace. A huge applause has to be given to the author for coming up with a breath taking climax which left me without any more nails to sacrifice. But fair warning has to be given the faint hearted as this book is not for them. There are parts of the book that can make even the strong ones feel squeamish. The historical notes at the end were highly informative and left me in a state of awe for all those authors who piece such tidbits together to create entirely interesting stories of their own. Saying that I am not entirely sure that the book should be curbed to the title of historical literature. Though there were a lot of historical elements in the book but it never goes in much details in this regard. The historical wars and conquests are explained and lengthy descriptions are given for the Colosseum battles of the gladiators. But a wealth of information is not obtained from this book about that particular time period to qualify it as a historical fiction. Nevertheless this book is worth a read and definitely a keeper. ...more I bought this on a whim. I didn't read the back, I didn't read any reviews, I certainly didn't read the page of critic's praise just inside the cover. Every time I've gone on these indicators lately, I've been incredibly disappointed. So, I bought this one based on-- GASP! --the cover! I was skeptical as the first several pages are describing a self-harming ritual of one of the main characters. I was even a little disgusted by such a transparent hook, but I found that I couldn't put the book down. I bought this on a whim. I didn't read the back, I didn't read any reviews, I certainly didn't read the page of critic's praise just inside the cover. Every time I've gone on these indicators lately, I've been incredibly disappointed. So, I bought this one based on-- GASP! --the cover! I was skeptical as the first several pages are describing a self-harming ritual of one of the main characters. I was even a little disgusted by such a transparent hook, but I found that I couldn't put the book down. In fact, I felt that way throughout the entire reading. Horrified, disgusted, and utterly unable to stop. In fact, I read the entire thing in one sitting. Though I found some of the \"shocking\" plot twists a tad contrived and very, very predictable, it was sort of comforting to know that the author wasn't trying to make the book more than the plot could handle. It began, moved along, and ended exactly the way you would think a book about the Mistress(es) of a crazed Roman Emperor should. The book basically follows the three mistresses of Emperor Domitian, a suspicious, violent man. The first of these women is the Emperor's own niece, Julia, who's tragic story begins when she's turned down by the Vestals and ends with her violent death. The second is Thea, a Jewish slave who iseventually trained as a musician. She is set up from the beginning as a direct rival to her owner, Lepida Pollia, a beautiful and spoiled heiress with a very dark side. Their rivalry begins when an up-and-coming gladiator known as Arius the Barbarian chooses Thea over Lepida, leading Lepida to sell Thea into prostitution. This sets off a series of events which fuel the hatred between the two women as Thea (now known as Athena) gains fame as a singer and Lepida becomes the wife of a well respected Senator. When Thea catches the eye of the Emperor, whom Lepida had hoped to call her own, it sparks a descent into violence and madness for both women. I can't say, even now, that I liked it. The characters and subject matter were too dark to like , but I can say that it is compelling . I couldn't put it down and that's all I can really ask for. ...more 3.5* To my grandparents, Glenn & Marylou Reed-Quinn,who are no longer here to read this book, but who would undoubtedly have cracked a bottle of champagne & bought a dozen copies. My favourite dedication of the year. I didn't respond quite so strongly to the book. I don't need a likeable heroine - Forever Amber & Gone with the Wind remain as two of my favourite novels. I think the problem is that I felt nothing for Thea at all & found most of the other female characters more interes 3.5* To my grandparents, Glenn & Marylou Reed-Quinn,who are no longer here to read this book, but who would undoubtedly have cracked a bottle of champagne & bought a dozen copies. My favourite dedication of the year. I didn't respond quite so strongly to the book. I don't need a likeable heroine - Forever Amber & Gone with the Wind remain as two of my favourite novels. I think the problem is that I felt nothing for Thea at all & found most of the other female characters more interesting. Maybe I need a likeable hero. I, Claudius is another favourite set in roughly the same era & I liked Claudius very much, whereas Arius & Vix remained charisma free killing machines. Quinn in her afterward lists some of her inaccuracies (& I found at least a couple more) & I thought it was a smart move writing in a modern idiom - so many writers slide uneasily between the past & present in dialogue & I always find that jarring. Quinn can write a fast paced & compelling page turner, but my rating has to reflect that I liked this book rather than loved it. I'm not sure if I will continue with this series but I still want to read Quinn's Borgia books. ...more Ok people, key word in the synposis is \"depravity.\" I wish I had paid closer attention. I spent this entire novel trying to find a character I could at least like if not relate to in some way. It didn't happen. Thea is a Jewish slave that works for Lepida, a Roman \"lady.\" Both Thea and Lepida develope lustful feelings towards the newest, fiercest, most famous gladiator, Arius. The first quarter of the novel really drew me in as Arius spurns Lepida (she has the eyes of a ferret, apparently) and be Ok people, key word in the synposis is \"depravity.\" I wish I had paid closer attention. I spent this entire novel trying to find a character I could at least like if not relate to in some way. It didn't happen. Thea is a Jewish slave that works for Lepida, a Roman \"lady.\" Both Thea and Lepida develope lustful feelings towards the newest, fiercest, most famous gladiator, Arius. The first quarter of the novel really drew me in as Arius spurns Lepida (she has the eyes of a ferret, apparently) and begins a rather hot and steamy affair with Thea. I was really quite hooked until part two. At this point, the evil, vile, and incredibly disgusting Lepida (Can you tell how much I hated her?) has separated Thea and Arius and married a senator. From this point on, it just becomes a giant Roman orgy. Lepida is fornicating with so and so (a family relation and that is all I'm going to reveal) who was just fornicating with Thea who at this point, is fornicating with almost as many men as Lepida and that is a lot. Then Thea begins fornicating with the Emperor and Lepida wants to fornicate with him too. But alas, poor Lepida must settle for simply fornicating in the same room as the Emperor and Thea. Both Thea and Lepida are also horrid mothers. Thea abandons her boy most of the time while Lepida tells her sick daughter to go have seizures in another room. Thea has a strange addiction to cutting herself, Lepida is addicted to sex, Arius just loves to kill people, and the Emperor is just plain demented and perverted. The only likeable people in the entire novel were Marcus and his daughter, Sabina but their roles weren't large enough to overcome my distaste at the bitter rivalry and power hungry bed hopping of Thea and Lepida. Well written but not about characters I want to read about. Too much depravity for me. ...more Its very rare that I give a book a 5 star rating ,but this book deserves it.This book from the start drew me into the story & the characters and wouldnt let go...I would put the book aside to slow down as I didnt want it to come to the end..and yet I kept picking it back up..and it kept drawing me back into Thea's & Arius lives & story. The author writes in the first person for some of the characters which may seem confusing to some at first. But you get to know each person in their p Its very rare that I give a book a 5 star rating ,but this book deserves it.This book from the start drew me into the story & the characters and wouldnt let go...I would put the book aside to slow down as I didnt want it to come to the end..and yet I kept picking it back up..and it kept drawing me back into Thea's & Arius lives & story. The author writes in the first person for some of the characters which may seem confusing to some at first. But you get to know each person in their private life with shocking events that happened..and newer ones later in the book.You come to know their strengths as well as their weaknesses and why they do what they do to survive. A female \"villian\" in this book you will just hate..yet you need to find out next who she will betray..or ruin...its a deeply passionate love story with lots of intrigue & drama. Thea & Arius and the story have stayed with me long after I closed the book..looking forward to this authors next book! ...more Oh. <---A>Kate Quinn</---A> is the queen of characterization. Seriously. Every person in this book has been carefully and thoroughly planned. Kate gave them flaws, a past, their own strengths and weaknesses. She gave them voice of their own and made them stand out in a crowd. She made them all, Thea, Arius, Lepida, even the minor characters, truly unforgettable and only a great writer can do that. Thea was my favourite character. She was fragile, yet incredibly strong person. Life wasn't easy for her, being a Oh. Kate Quinn is the queen of characterization. Seriously. Every person in this book has been carefully and thoroughly planned. Kate gave them flaws, a past, their own strengths and weaknesses. She gave them voice of their own and made them stand out in a crowd. She made them all, Thea, Arius, Lepida, even the minor characters, truly unforgettable and only a great writer can do that. Thea was my favourite character. She was fragile, yet incredibly strong person. Life wasn't easy for her, being a slave, a property , but she never complained, not even once. She accepted the worst things life threw at her without any objection. When she found herself in the worst possible situation, she tried to make best of it. She is an example of a strong heroine and if YA authors would create characters that are half as great as Thea is, a world would be a better fucking place. Besides amazing characters, writing was brilliant. It was so well paced, so full of life; simply incredible. I don't often give 5 stars, but this book deserved it. And there are two other books! Can't wait! ...more If I could reach for the stars, I would give it all to MOR <3 Have you ever read something that flows so smoothly, that the entire novel seems to unfurl in your mind to become such an epic movie? That is the brilliance of <+++>Mistress of Rome</+++>. Quinn is a remarkable writer and storyteller. She flawlessly breathe life to her characters - each and everyone of them. She made you Thea, the slave girl turned singer turned Mistress of Rome. She made you understand Thea's pain, love, and heartbreak; when If I could reach for the stars, I would give it all to MOR <3 Have you ever read something that flows so smoothly, that the entire novel seems to unfurl in your mind to become such an epic movie? That is the brilliance of Mistress of Rome. Quinn is a remarkable writer and storyteller. She flawlessly breathe life to her characters - each and everyone of them. She made you Thea, the slave girl turned singer turned Mistress of Rome. She made you understand Thea's pain, love, and heartbreak; when she was mistreated by her mistress or when she had to service her master; when she fall in love and got separated from her lover, Arius, The Barbarian; when she had to succumb to the Emperor's dark peculiarities; and when she had to stand helplessly by the sidelines, watching her 12 year old son, Vix, fight for his life at a gladiatorial game. Not only was I enthralled by the depth of the characters, I was equally captivated by the sights and sounds of Rome. She had penned the gladiatorial games with such precision, that I could imagine myself as one of the spectators in the packed tiers of the Colosseum - caught up in the violent and brutal display of the games and the midday execution. I could imagine the spectators showering the star gladiators with coins and flowers, could hear the screams of the tribunes, begging for mercy. I am truly impressed by Quinn's smooth writing. She could easily sneak in flashbacks in every other paragraph, and it did not affect the film that was rolling in my mind. Impeccable. This has been such a marvelous journey, though I barely scratched the surface of the History of Rome. P.S.: This novel spans across A.D. 81 to A.D. 96, so you gotta pay closer attention to the year to get a better understanding. IMO, i wish they indicated the period on every page, cos I'm forgetful like that. This gorgeous novel is highly recommended to all Historical Fiction/ Romance lovers! 5 HUGE stars from me. :) But God, the cosmic joker, had said No. Never forget. Know everything about him, down to the bottom of his soul. Have the knowledge, when you can't have him. Have the memories, when you can't have him. Have a son with his smile, when you can't have him. ...more While I liked this book a lot, I'm surprised so many reviewers have described it as literary... For me, it was a trashy potboiler, a definite guilty pleasure - albeit a very well-researched one with lots of enjoyable historical detail and exciting action. The vivid depiction of everyday goings-on in ancient Rome brings the period and settings to life in a way the modern reader can easily relate to; I can see this book being turned into a film or TV miniseries, in fact I wouldn't be at all surpri While I liked this book a lot, I'm surprised so many reviewers have described it as literary... For me, it was a trashy potboiler, a definite guilty pleasure - albeit a very well-researched one with lots of enjoyable historical detail and exciting action. The vivid depiction of everyday goings-on in ancient Rome brings the period and settings to life in a way the modern reader can easily relate to; I can see this book being turned into a film or TV miniseries, in fact I wouldn't be at all surprised if one is already in production. The characters were great, with the scheming, bitchy Lepida being a highlight - I loved how the sections written from her point of view read like entries from a bratty teenager's diary, and despite how awful she's meant to be, by the end I kind of loved her (and I would also have loved to see more of the relationship between her and Domitian, they would've made a brilliant evil couple!) In comparison to Philippa Gregory's The White Queen - another example of historical fiction based partly on real events and figures, which I read last month - this was so much better. Soapy, but absolutely fantastic fun to read. ...more I picked up this book based on the cover recommendations of authors including Diana Gabaldon and Margaret George, and was not disappointed. This is a fun, enthralling romp through ancient Rome. I would classify this as more of a guilty-pleasure page-turner rather than literary as George suggests, but that is what makes it a great summer read. I would have preferred the author kept to either third or first person rather than alternating back and forth, and the dialogue was a bit modern American f I picked up this book based on the cover recommendations of authors including Diana Gabaldon and Margaret George, and was not disappointed. This is a fun, enthralling romp through ancient Rome. I would classify this as more of a guilty-pleasure page-turner rather than literary as George suggests, but that is what makes it a great summer read. I would have preferred the author kept to either third or first person rather than alternating back and forth, and the dialogue was a bit modern American for historical fiction, but those are minor complaints. This is a juicy read and I look forward to the next installment, as I hear this book will have a sequel. Readers should be warned that despite the lovely book cover, this book features truly dark and violent moments. ...more 4.5 Stars. Wow, what a story! I was under its spell from the very first page, and I could not put it down, mainly because I was instantly drawn to the lead characters, Arius and Thea. They are both slaves, subject to the whims of the Roman aristocracy. They are both fighting to survive: Arius in the arena, and Thea in the service of her truly awful mistress, Lepida. I loved them both, but my heart really went out to Thea. This was my first experience with a character who cuts herself, and I was 4.5 Stars. Wow, what a story! I was under its spell from the very first page, and I could not put it down, mainly because I was instantly drawn to the lead characters, Arius and Thea. They are both slaves, subject to the whims of the Roman aristocracy. They are both fighting to survive: Arius in the arena, and Thea in the service of her truly awful mistress, Lepida. I loved them both, but my heart really went out to Thea. This was my first experience with a character who cuts herself, and I was surprised to find it in a historical novel. I thought this aspect of Thea was very well written, and made a lot of sense given her history. Thea is so calm and collected, making the best of every rotten twist life throws at her, and cutting herself is the only way Thea knows how to release her anger, guilt, and disappointment. Until she meets Arius... Arius is a wonderful character, too. Noble, honorable, and brave, but filled with seething hatred for himself and the Romans who come to watch him fight, and Emperor Domitian in particular. He's fighting dark demons, too, until he meets Thea, and discovers a new reason for living. Their love story is so simple and sweet, yet it spans a dozen years of misfortune, separation, and tragedy. As Arius continues to fight, he reluctantly becomes the darling of the arena, feeding the greedy Romans' hunger for bloodsport by day, and drinking himself into oblivion by night, all the while mocking them, disrespecting them, and making an enemy of the Emperor. Meanwhile Thea, though still a slave, finds her star rising, too, as a songbird in demand among the aristocracy. Capturing the attention of Domitian would seem like a dream come true, but it turns out to be the ultimate nightmare, and Thea finds herself fighting to survive once again. Will she make it out alive? Will she ever meet Arius again? And if she does, what will happen when he discovers the love of his life is the mistress of his greatest enemy? Well I'm not telling--you'll have to read the book to find out! Overall, I thought this book was awesome! I've already told you how much I loved Thea and Arius, but there's also a great cast of supporting characters, and combined with a background of excellent historical detail, the city of Rome and the vices of its citizens really come to life, and become characters in themselves. My complaints are few, and the main one being that I never figured out why Lepida was so downright nasty and spiteful. I couldn't find any real motivation for her behavior, and she came across as being very one-dimensional--the convenient big, bad villain. But boy, oh boy, I hated her and couldn't wait to see her get what was coming to her! This story is not for the faint of heart, but neither was first-century Rome, and based on other books I've read, I don't think anything Ms. Quinn has included is far-fetched or unbelievable. This book has a killer ending--those final scenes were nail-biting, gut-wrenching thrillers, and I was kept guessing until the very last page. In her author's note Ms. Quinn reveals that she will be writing a follow-up book concentrating on two of the supporting characters, and I will be the first person in line to buy it! This one has earned its spot on my keeper shelf. ...more Mistress of Rome took some time to hook me, but when it did I couldn't put it down. I adored some characters and absolutely loathed others. A great character driven read. I tried very hard to like this one. Set in ancient Rome, during the reign of Emperor Domitian, it tells the story of two doomed lovers, Thea and Arius, who struggle not just for freedom but also to save their very lives. Along the way, we get a tour of the Colosseum's deadly games, with plenty of descriptive gore and violence, and if that's not enough, Thea's and Arius' abuse at the hands of others is also lovingly described. There's also Domitian, who is clearly just as mad as previous Emperors I tried very hard to like this one. Set in ancient Rome, during the reign of Emperor Domitian, it tells the story of two doomed lovers, Thea and Arius, who struggle not just for freedom but also to save their very lives. Along the way, we get a tour of the Colosseum's deadly games, with plenty of descriptive gore and violence, and if that's not enough, Thea's and Arius' abuse at the hands of others is also lovingly described. There's also Domitian, who is clearly just as mad as previous Emperors, and Lepida, a slut of the first order who endlessly schemes and sleeps her way through all of Rome. Other characters are long-suffering, with no one except Lepida seeming to have a good time. Then there's another character Paulinus, who is essentially good, but lacks either the ballocks or spine to actually stand up for himself, Sabina, who is miracly cured, Julia the emperor's niece who's also off her rocker, and so on and so forth. Everyone in this one is either very good or very bad, but those are little flaws compared to some of the research errors in here -- most readers won't notice or care, but for me it was irritating as all get out. Modern idiom creeps in constantly, and the most hilarious error was when a character described being bundled up like a sack of potatoes. Please. (I really ought to make a shelf labeled The Potato Incident for those books which tend to have that innocent tuber appear when it's clear that potatoes didn't make it to Europe before 1500) In short, despite all of the promise and faint glimmers of real potential, this was a flunk for me. Just two stars and not recommended. For the longer review, please go here: http://www.epinions.com/review/kate-q... ...more This is a long overdue review for a book that I'm crazy about. This isn't the kind of dry or overly artsy narrative that sometimes puts people off historical fiction. This is an extremely dynamic novel in the tradition of Spartacus, Gladiator, or HBO's Rome. It's splashy, salacious, adventurous good fun with a kick-ass protagonist and villains who need to die. Quinn takes a mysterious historical assassination and invents a whole cast of characters to explain everything in an exciting and thought- This is a long overdue review for a book that I'm crazy about. This isn't the kind of dry or overly artsy narrative that sometimes puts people off historical fiction. This is an extremely dynamic novel in the tradition of Spartacus, Gladiator, or HBO's Rome. It's splashy, salacious, adventurous good fun with a kick-ass protagonist and villains who need to die. Quinn takes a mysterious historical assassination and invents a whole cast of characters to explain everything in an exciting and thought-provoking way. And some of the characters she invents are bold choices and good fun. My favorite character may well have been Paulinus, a scion of a noble family who meant well, but whose strength of character wasn't what he wished it to be. I particularly enjoyed the way Quinn handles scandalous material--by hardly batting an eyelash. The realism of violence, prostitution and other sexual abuse is so prevalent in this world that it wouldn't make sense for our heroine, a slave, to get fussy about it. She handles it all with matter-of-factness. Another thing I loved is the clear and spare prose. Readers won't stumble over the language of this book; it's refreshingly straight-forward and it helps to make this book into a page-turner. Now, when it comes to ancient Rome, I'm a Julio-Claudian kind of girl. After Claudius, everything gets pretty hazy for me. So I approached this book knowing nothing about the Flavians and I learned a great deal. Can't recommend this one enough! ...more Bloody Fantastic Book. Bursting with amazing characters, some you will fall madly in love with, while others you will just love to despise. Corruption, Jeolousy, Murder, Conspiracy, Heartbreak, Adultry, Passion, and above all Love detail this courageous and brilliant first novel of the amazing Kate Quinn. Fast paced, and jaw clenching, this is a story for the masses. A definate page turner, with a guarantee to keep you up all night, ignore the family, and sneak as many reading breaks from work a Bloody Fantastic Book. Bursting with amazing characters, some you will fall madly in love with, while others you will just love to despise. Corruption, Jeolousy, Murder, Conspiracy, Heartbreak, Adultry, Passion, and above all Love detail this courageous and brilliant first novel of the amazing Kate Quinn. Fast paced, and jaw clenching, this is a story for the masses. A definate page turner, with a guarantee to keep you up all night, ignore the family, and sneak as many reading breaks from work as possible. I simply couldn't put this book down. ...more In the summer of 1993 in between my junior and senior year in high school I had the unique opportunity to travel to Rome as part of the Travel and Tourism program at my school. We spent 9 days in Rome with a day trip to Florence and walked what felt like to be a gazillion miles. Though after a horrific experience with the taxi drivers of Rome, the walking didn\u2019t seem all that bad after all! One of my favorite sights following, of course, the Sistine Chapel was the Coliseum. This massive work of In the summer of 1993 in between my junior and senior year in high school I had the unique opportunity to travel to Rome as part of the Travel and Tourism program at my school. We spent 9 days in Rome with a day trip to Florence and walked what felt like to be a gazillion miles. Though after a horrific experience with the taxi drivers of Rome, the walking didn\u2019t seem all that bad after all! One of my favorite sights following, of course, the Sistine Chapel was the Coliseum. This massive work of Roman architecture is awe-inspiring in person, if not a tad frightening and intimidating. At the age of 16 I had neither the knowledge nor the appreciation of what actually took place inside the Coliseum, I mean I knew basically what it was used for, but nothing more in depth than that. Well now that\u2019s changed and author Kate Quinn has given me the chance to go back to Rome via her fabulous debut novel, Mistress of Rome. Mistress of Rome takes place in the 1st century during the reign of Domitian, the eleventh Roman Emperor. 1st century Rome was a land ruled by classes and wealth, where violence reined and the celebrities of the day were gladiators. The Romans were a blood thirsty people who routinely gathered in the Coliseum to watch animals and gladiators fight to the death\u2026some of the gladiators were convicts or prisoners of war, who had no say in their fate, while others chose the life of a gladiator simply because they sought fame and riches. Slaves were also a common part of Roman life. A slave was the property of their owner and could be treated however their master fancied with no fear of punishment. Mistress of Rome is about two such people \u2013 Thea, a Jewish slave purchased to serve Lepida, the daughter of a wealthy nobleman and Arius, a convict from Briton who becomes one of the most famous gladiators in Rome. Against all odds these two people find true love and will persevere through any obstacles put in their way to be together. With colorful and intriguing characters and Quinn\u2019s dynamic writing style, coupled with brilliant descriptions of Rome and the violent life of a gladiator, Mistress of Rome is how historical fiction should be written! There was never a point in the novel where I got bored, rather quite the opposite\u2026.I ran back to it whenever I had a free minute and read the last 350 pages in one sitting. It was that good!! Needless to say, I was over the moon excited to read that there will be a sequel and I believe also a prequel in the works! You can bet that I will be at the door of my local bookstore on release day! I give Mistress of Rome an enthusiastic 5 crowns! ...more Okay, what can I say that can express how much I enjoyed Mistress of Rome? Hmm. I enjoyed this book as much as I'd enjoy a quiet evening with Mr. Owen. Yes, that much. I was swept into the story effortlessly and carried along with the characters. I went into the reading figuring as a first novel, if I enjoyed the read, as I've enjoyed other writing here by this author, I'd give it 3 or 4 stars. I'd read reviews about Mistress of Rome that made me nervous. The POV jumps, the 'gratuitous sex' and t Okay, what can I say that can express how much I enjoyed Mistress of Rome? Hmm. I enjoyed this book as much as I'd enjoy a quiet evening with Mr. Owen. Yes, that much. I was swept into the story effortlessly and carried along with the characters. I went into the reading figuring as a first novel, if I enjoyed the read, as I've enjoyed other writing here by this author, I'd give it 3 or 4 stars. I'd read reviews about Mistress of Rome that made me nervous. The POV jumps, the 'gratuitous sex' and the blood. Well, none of that seemed an issue for me. The POV shifts were seemless and easy to follow, Quinn's writing was a dream to read and often I forgot I was actually reading. That's rare. The sex? Not graphic, not gratuitous and not 'scandalous', it fit with the story. This was ancient Rome for crying out loud. Full of intrigue, suspense, romance and that Roman something that makes you wish you could go back in time for just a taste of what it was like to live among such power, such passion, and such...what's the word? Luxury...indulgence. I loved Thea who did what she had to do in order to survive. I hated Lepidia, and I mean hated. Kudos to Quinn for creating such a perfectly despicable character. My heart went out to Vix who made me chuckle more than once. Such a delightful boy who I'm really glad is not my kid. The Emperor, Dominitian (spelling is probably wrong), I found myself at times attracted to this character but more often appalled. Well done. Sabina, I can't wait to read more about her. Marcus is my hero and I actually nearly (nearly, not quite) cried for Paulinus and all that he endures. Arius..I want one of him. We all should have an Arius in our life. Okay, I've gone on and on about characters so I'll wrap this up by saying that I highly recommend this book. It has been an eternity since I've read historical fiction that absorbed my imagination and made me want to keep reading as Mistress did. Years in fact. I dreamed about the characters....some rather disturbing and disjointed dreams, but the story stayed with me nonetheless. I cannot wait for Kate to release her next book. I would wait in a line up full of stinky irritating people at the crack of dawn to buy it. If you know me at all, that says a lot. I won't promise how many of my fellow waiters would survive...but I think this author is worth the risk. ...more Originally read November 25-26, 2013 Original review: Brilliant, simply brilliant. This captivating story is told in multiple POV's and let me just say, the second half of the book is INTENSE. The Nastiness of Ancient Rome In Kate Quinn\u2019s new debut novel Mistress of Rome, she presents the raw, blood and guts side of the ancient city and it\u2019s people. I was eager to read this historical novel, this time period is one of my favorites. However, I can\u2019t say I enjoyed it. I struggled and struggled and had to quit about 3/4 of the way through. I was astounded that on the cover of the ARC, there was an endorsement blurb by the queen of historical fiction, Margaret George, calling this book \u201cli The Nastiness of Ancient Rome In Kate Quinn\u2019s new debut novel Mistress of Rome, she presents the raw, blood and guts side of the ancient city and it\u2019s people. I was eager to read this historical novel, this time period is one of my favorites. However, I can\u2019t say I enjoyed it. I struggled and struggled and had to quit about 3/4 of the way through. I was astounded that on the cover of the ARC, there was an endorsement blurb by the queen of historical fiction, Margaret George, calling this book \u201cliterary\u201d and \u201cstunning\u201d. I have read a lot of literary ancient historical novels, and I have read a lot of light historical romances, and this to me was far from literary and certainly not stunning. I can\u2019t say this was a terrible novel, but for me it was far from wonderful. The story revolves around a few main characters that take alternate turns telling their stories that interlock with one another. The main heroine is Thea, a Jewish slave woman who falls in love with Arius, called The Barbarian in the gladiatorial arena. An unstoppable brute who manages to tear apart and slay every man that dares to become his opponent. Living longer than most gladiators he is the hero of the blood sports in all of Brundisium, champion of the Coliseum. Fate brings Arius and Thea together for a short romantic spell that fate intervenes with, splitting the lovers against their will when the evil Lady Lepida Pollia wants the handsome gladiator for herself and so connives to have Thea sent away. The story unravels with each of the three characters lives unfolding through the years, each full of hatred of their dreaded fate in life. Lepida is a spoiled brat, who wants every man another woman holds out of spite, hurting everyone in her path leaving them in the dust. Arius\u2019s inner hostility for having become a slave and a gladiator at the emperor\u2019s beck and call , has him lashing out by brandishing his sword cutting down any man caught in his way. Thea, later a hired singer and whore of the emperor himself, drowns in her own animosity as the emperor nightly brutalizes and beats her black and blue. I found none of these characters , good or bad, redeeming or enjoyable to read about. All the characters involved were evil, nasty and unhappy and I found that with that, I didn\u2019t care about them, or want to know the outcome of the story. I felt the story ran pretty predictable and familiar to those I had read in the realm of historical romance novels set in that time period. They were callous, heartless, disloyal characters ,and even though I usually enjoy a well created \u201cbad guy\u201d, it seemed to me that they were all bad. The plot was thin, and rather lame. Not much to it really to say I was riveted to the page. Now maybe if a reader had not read many ancient Rome novels, literary or romantic, they might find this interesting or inventive. But if you have read many before, I think you\u2019ll agree this is nothing new and lacked originality and finesse. There are times when I felt the writing and parts of the story ok, but mostly\u2026not. It lacked polish, and within the storyline I couldn\u2019t really find an ultimate goal that one or any of the characters were shooting for that I wanted to see come full circle in the end. I often kept thinking to myself..\u201dwhere is this story going? Is there a point here?\u201d. It just seemed to lack focus and presented a group of angry spiteful characters prowling around each other like the players in the gladiator arena with no passion, love, or determination. Sorry folks, I just couldn\u2019t get through this ...more This was my kind of book!!! I purchased this bad boy for 3 dollars at Big Lots(who even knew they sold books) along with a couple others all under 5 bucks! Can't beat that. I had this book on my to-be-read shelf for quite some time, so naturally when I found it for so cheap, I was ecstatic. Wahoo for cheap books! The very quick synopsis: (spoilers) This is a book about \"old\" Rome. We are following a slave girl whose lover is a gladiator, but their love gets separated when Thea's master sells her o This was my kind of book!!! I purchased this bad boy for 3 dollars at Big Lots(who even knew they sold books) along with a couple others all under 5 bucks! Can't beat that. I had this book on my to-be-read shelf for quite some time, so naturally when I found it for so cheap, I was ecstatic. Wahoo for cheap books! The very quick synopsis: (spoilers) This is a book about \"old\" Rome. We are following a slave girl whose lover is a gladiator, but their love gets separated when Thea's master sells her off to a whore-house. She luckily is pregnant and gets sold from there as well to a nice family who works with her to turn her into a singing goddess, Athena is now her stage name. She makes it full circle, when she winds up back in her homeland singing for the emperor. She definitely catches his eye, which you would think would be great right? Nope, he's a freak. He's into torture and pain. She only escapes when her son tries to kill the Emperor. Then our lovers paths reunite and they are on a common mission-to save their son and kill the emperor. I was impressed by this author. I give her bonus points for not turning this into a smut book. I mean, the title is \"MISTRESS of Rome\", she totally could have went there. The book is relatively clean. There are some references and some torture scenes, but nothing graphic. Watching the HBO show \"Rome\" is 10x worse. Historians beware. This is a good FICTION book, that being said it is not accurate. Some of the characters are even made up. They fit the time period, but they are most definitely fictional. I enjoyed it, but I'm not a huge history buff, so I could look beyond it (especially this particular part of Roman history). Is this heaven?!?!? ...more Not a fan of romance novels but love reading about Ancient Rome? Give this book a try. I did and I'm glad for it. I was pleasantly surprised by Mistress of Rome . I really liked the writing style and I loved the characters. But I have other books to read Mrs. Quinn and now you've got me wrapped up in the lives of Arius, Thea, Vix, Marcus, and Sabina. It's on to book two for me. My favorite part of the book? \"Ganymede...Ganymede...Ganymede..\" (Take that you stupid bitch! hahaha) I'd give this book Not a fan of romance novels but love reading about Ancient Rome? Give this book a try. I did and I'm glad for it. I was pleasantly surprised by Mistress of Rome . I really liked the writing style and I loved the characters. But I have other books to read Mrs. Quinn and now you've got me wrapped up in the lives of Arius, Thea, Vix, Marcus, and Sabina. It's on to book two for me. My favorite part of the book? \"Ganymede...Ganymede...Ganymede..\" (Take that you stupid bitch! hahaha) I'd give this book a 4.5 rating. ...more Boy, oh boy, can Kate Quinn tell a story! This is easily one of the most entertaining, un-put-down-able books I\u2019ve read. It\u2019s not a book to be read slowly and savored, but one to devour! If I\u2019d been able to read this in one sitting, I most certainly would have. The story is fast-paced with constant action and drama to keep you turning those pages. I kid you not\u2026there was not a lull to be found! There wasn\u2019t any one character that I was extremely attached to. It was more the story as a whole that Boy, oh boy, can Kate Quinn tell a story! This is easily one of the most entertaining, un-put-down-able books I\u2019ve read. It\u2019s not a book to be read slowly and savored, but one to devour! If I\u2019d been able to read this in one sitting, I most certainly would have. The story is fast-paced with constant action and drama to keep you turning those pages. I kid you not\u2026there was not a lull to be found! There wasn\u2019t any one character that I was extremely attached to. It was more the story as a whole that held me captive. There were moments where I was on the edge of my seat, reading wide-eyed and literally holding my breath waiting to see what was going to happen next. And other moments when I was shocked, surprised, and even near tears. Quite an intense ride and I loved every minute of it! I also want to mention that there is quite a bit of violence and some pretty explicit sex scenes in the book. Just a heads-up for those of you who may be sensitive to that kind of thing. Personally, I thought it added some awesome intensity and drama to the story. It\u2019s always exciting to find a new and wonderful author to follow. If Kate Quinn writes it, I will read it. Can\u2019t wait to see what other gems she has up her sleeve for us to enjoy down the road! ...more This story gave me everything I love in a good novel: intense family drama, action, solid character development, deep love, with many historical facts used as the foundation (or as much fact that we know of this time period). Loved the characters. As tortured and damaged as they were, they perservered. I really cared about what happened to each of them. I do recognize that some of the storyline didn't fit together perfectly, but I was able to look over that. Because of this book, I now want to r This story gave me everything I love in a good novel: intense family drama, action, solid character development, deep love, with many historical facts used as the foundation (or as much fact that we know of this time period). Loved the characters. As tortured and damaged as they were, they perservered. I really cared about what happened to each of them. I do recognize that some of the storyline didn't fit together perfectly, but I was able to look over that. Because of this book, I now want to read more about roman times. One reviewer felt this should be rated NC-17. What? There is nothing graphic here. This is a book for adults because of the subject matter; however, the sexual content is not graphic. While I\u2019m giving this a 5 star rating because of how the story touched my heart, I know it\u2019s not for everyone. I\u2019d recommend this book to all fans of Paullina Simons or Diana Galbaldon. The best news is there will be a sequel!!! Can\u2019t wait. ...more This author definitely caught my attention with her ability to tell a fast paced but richly detailed story and her characters that are multi layered and alive. I loved Arius' character and Thea was very brave throughout the novel--a perfect match for a gladiator. I would love to hear more about Sabina and Vix; hopefully there is another novel by this author about these characters. Now that Arius and Thea's story has ended happily it'd be nice to know what the future holds for these characters. A This author definitely caught my attention with her ability to tell a fast paced but richly detailed story and her characters that are multi layered and alive. I loved Arius' character and Thea was very brave throughout the novel--a perfect match for a gladiator. I would love to hear more about Sabina and Vix; hopefully there is another novel by this author about these characters. Now that Arius and Thea's story has ended happily it'd be nice to know what the future holds for these characters. All right, I had to change my rating to five stars because after reading Daughters of Rome I have no idea why I only gave this book four stars when I loved it so much. I must have been drinking or my finger slipped or something! Because I'm pretty sure this book made me cry in spots and it was a powerful love on top of beautiful writing so I'm sure it's five star worthy. ...more Great cover! The story was very interesting, but dark. I was very frustrated at times. I thought living in the Medieval Times would have been bad, but this tops it. Loved Thea and Arius. The Julia parts lost me at times, but it all came together.This would make a great mini-series. I can't wait to see what Kate does with part 2 with Vix and Sabina. Mistress of Rome is one of those books that grabs you from the very beginning and never quite lets you go. Action-packed and filled with cliff-hangers, historical fiction doesn\u2019t get more thrilling than this! There were god-like gladiators, scheming slave women, and emperors at their most licentious. There were wars, and whores, and love and lust\u2026There were even times when I would be sitting at my desk at work, wishing I could go home early\u2014not because I dislike my job (I love my job), but becau Mistress of Rome is one of those books that grabs you from the very beginning and never quite lets you go. Action-packed and filled with cliff-hangers, historical fiction doesn\u2019t get more thrilling than this! There were god-like gladiators, scheming slave women, and emperors at their most licentious. There were wars, and whores, and love and lust\u2026There were even times when I would be sitting at my desk at work, wishing I could go home early\u2014not because I dislike my job (I love my job), but because I couldn\u2019t wait to find out what happened next in the book! Regular followers of this blog may already know that Latin was one of my favorite classes in high school, so Ancient Rome is truly a source of multi-faceted enthrallment for me. Some readers may be shocked to read about the gruesome gladiatorial games depicted in this book (though anyone who\u2019s seen Gladiator should not be the least bit surprised), but as one who views historical time periods and the likes and dislikes of its people through a normative relativist lens, I could really dig in and enjoy the descriptions of the crowds watching the gladiators fight to the death in the Colosseum. Ave, Imperator, morituri te salutant: \u201cHail Emperor, those who are about to die salute you\u201d\u2014a Latin phrase uttered by gladiators just before their match was to begin, and one that has been drilled into my brain since the ninth grade. Mistress of Rome takes place in the 1st Century, during the rule of Emporer Domitian. I thought the author handled the characterization of Domitian perfectly \u2013 in the beginning, you never really know which way he\u2019s going to go\u2026is he slightly twisted but misunderstood, or is he truly just outright evil? And Thea is intriguingly complex; a Jewish slave girl whose spiteful Domina Lepida Pollia is relentless in her mean-spirited torture of the poor girl, whose only desire is to live in peace with her gladiator inamorato Arius \u201cthe Barbarian.\u201d Other side characters of real historical origin make interesting appearances throughout the book: Empress Domitia Longina, Nerva, Trajan, Vibia Sabina, Flavia Domatilla (later made a saint in the Greek Orthodox Church), and Julia Flavia. Contrary to many other reviewers, I liked that segments throughout the book switched between various character perspectives. I think this added to the author\u2019s ability to leave us wanting more. Just as I thought Thea\u2019s story could not get more interesting, something earth-shattering would occur and I would be left in suspense as that section ended and the whole tone of the next section switched to Lepida\u2019s POV, picking up where her latest mischief had previously left off. The only aspect of this back-and-forth manner of storytelling that threw me off a bit was when it switched from first person to third person. The third person narration interspersed between the personal reflections certainly made things more interesting, but I received an ARC, and I hope that the final copy will contain more decisive section breaks, since the change in POV is not separated by chapters, but rather by multiple line breaks. Much of the dialogue overall was deliberately modern (which I didn't mind, since it was intentional - though it made me smirk to envision the Ancient Romans reciting lines like \"I'll run the bitch over with my chariot\"), and some of the Latin misplaced. For example, Thea gives her son Vercingetorix the nickname Vix, which depending on context, in Latin translates to the adverb \u201cscarcely\u201d or \u201chardly\u201d or \u201cwith difficulty\u201d. Vix\u2019s character is anything but scarce! Also, Ancient Rome was a rather big and busy city and empire, too large, in fact, for the characters to have conveniently bumped into each other as often as they did in this book. That aspect didn\u2019t seem very believable\u2026but I found the plot to be so good that I could suspend belief and forgive these minor distractions. I must say, I had been waiting for this book to release since I first read about it maybe six months ago, and when I received a review request from the publisher, I was thrilled. Often times lofty anticipation can lead to a swift letdown, but Mistress of Rome far exceeded my already high expectations. The historical note at the end implies that a sequel is in the works, which I hope to be the case, as I\u2019m eager to read more from this talented debut author! FTC Disclosure: I received this book from the publisher for review. ...more I don\u2019t know where to begin. Characters that entranced me from the first page? A dazzling background in Imperial Rome? Tight plot that wreaked every drop of action and emotion until you are completely wrung out? It has everything. Thea is a slave girl from Judaea, passionate, musical, and guarded. Purchased as a toy for the spiteful heiress Lepida Pollia, Thea will become her mistress's rival for the love of Arius the Barbarian, Rome's newest and most savage gladiator. His love brings Thea the fi I don\u2019t know where to begin. Characters that entranced me from the first page? A dazzling background in Imperial Rome? Tight plot that wreaked every drop of action and emotion until you are completely wrung out? It has everything. Thea is a slave girl from Judaea, passionate, musical, and guarded. Purchased as a toy for the spiteful heiress Lepida Pollia, Thea will become her mistress's rival for the love of Arius the Barbarian, Rome's newest and most savage gladiator. His love brings Thea the first happiness of her life-that is quickly ended when a jealous Lepida tears them apart. As Lepida goes on to wreak havoc in the life of a new husband and his family, Thea remakes herself as a polished singer for Rome's aristocrats. Unwittingly, she attracts another admirer in the charismatic Emperor of Rome. But Domitian's games have a darker side, and Thea finds herself fighting for both soul and sanity. Many have tried to destroy the Emperor: a vengeful gladiator, an upright senator, a tormented soldier, a Vestal Virgin. But in the end, the life of the brilliant and paranoid Domitian lies in the hands of one woman: the Emperor's mistress. The back and forth story of Thea and Arius is captivating and I felt I was living in Imperial Rome, it became so real. \u201cThe first time I went to an Imperial banquet I saw an orgy,\u201d Calpurnia said bluntly. \u201cAnd the second time I went I saw an assassination attempt, an arrest and a murder. I don\u2019t really think I want to try a third time.\u201d At the half way point, I felt almost sick with emotion\u2026 I swung between wanting to gobble it up to see how it worked out, and slowing down to savour the immense richness. I wanted to cheer for Arius every time he went in the arena, literally fighting for his life. Arius wants to save his money to start a new life with Thea: \u201cI\u2019m a slave. I can\u2019t go with you.\u201d \u201cI\u2019ll buy you.\u201d His voice was a low rush in my ear. \u201cMy prizes \u2013 enough to buy you three times over. Then when I get out of the arena -\u201d \u201cYou\u2019ll never get out. You\u2019ll die first -\u201d I wanted to cry for Thea and the other complex, multi-layered characters. Paulinus, the war-hero-turned-Prefect, so honest and upstanding, and so tied in knots by the wicked Lepida. The loyal Paulinus cannot believe the Emperor would be anything but kind to his mistresses. \u201cYou\u2019re good for him, Thea.\u201d \u201cSo I am\u2026 He leaves all his shadows for me, leaving the sunlight for the rest of you.\u201d I wanted to kill the Emperor. Thea only finds out, too late, how cruel and sadistic he is. One of the house slaves comes to her in the morning: He paused when he picked up the dress I\u2019d left on the floor, wrinkling his nose at the stains. \u201cThrow it away,\u201d I said. He looked at me with such immense sympathy, standing there with the ruined dress in his big hands, that I turned my face away. He\u2019d probably seen it all before. Emperor Domitian takes ownership of Thea: When I looked up there was a blacksmith in the door, soot-stained and out of place on the elegant terrace. \u201cWeld it closed,\u201d said Domitian. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t matter if you burn her.\u201d \u201cWhat?\u201d I twisted my head to look at him. \u201cWeld -\u201d A more elegant version of that tawdry ring,\u201d he explained genially. \u201cI added the stone out of whimsy. A black stone. Consider it my eye upon you. I like to mark my belongings.\u201d My heart was in my mouth so much, I couldn\u2019t speak when I put this down. The tension winds tighter with each chapter to reach an almost unbearable level and I feared that Arius and Thea would never find happiness with each other. I was thrilled to find out that Kate Quinn\u2019s follow-up novel is due for publication in a few months time. I need to immerse myself now in something light and frothy, while I try to recover from the intensity of reading this magnificent book. 6 stars ...more Another five star book from Kate Quinn. Here is an author who has never failed to disappoint me. I have three more books to get through so fingers crossed! Ancient Rome isn't really my thing. I am one of the few people in the world who saw the movie Gladiator and didn't like it. I have no idea why. I just didn't like it. My readings in historical fiction tend to bring me more to the British side of the channel. Things like the British Wars of the Roses, the Tudor dynasty, and the Italian Renaiss Another five star book from Kate Quinn. Here is an author who has never failed to disappoint me. I have three more books to get through so fingers crossed! Ancient Rome isn't really my thing. I am one of the few people in the world who saw the movie Gladiator and didn't like it. I have no idea why. I just didn't like it. My readings in historical fiction tend to bring me more to the British side of the channel. Things like the British Wars of the Roses, the Tudor dynasty, and the Italian Renaissance are more my thing. Kate Quinn has me seriously reconsidering this whole Ancient Rome time period. One of the most beautiful passages I have ever read in a book (and I've read my fair share of books) was on page 82 when Thea is confessing her love for Arius. I am not a sap by any means but, my goodness. I was genuinely moved. I think it takes incredible skill for a writer to describe romance without pages and pages of overly passionate sex (which is something totally different in my opinion). As mentioned in a previous reviews, I love that Quinn treats her readers likes adults and assumes we all understand how sex works. This book was a little more explicit than the previous books I had read but I think it was important in giving the reader an understanding of who Emperor Domitian really was. As mentioned before, I don't know a lot about Ancient Rome, but their Emperors seem to have issues. I have not hated a fictional character as much as I hated Lepida Pollia since Dolores Umbridge in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix . I spent all that time reading Harry Potter and (view spoiler) [ never once did Umbridge really get what she deserved! (hide spoiler) ] . (view spoiler) [ This time I wasn't disappointed. Nessus strangled Lepida and I just about cheered (just about) (hide spoiler) ] While I did give this book five stars, I do have one problem. It's the same problem I had with the Borgia novels. (view spoiler) [ The ending. Everything was all wrapped up in a neat little bow. Everyone more or less got the ending they wanted. I did cry a little when Paulinus was killed. Arius and Thea sailed off into the sunset with their boy in tow and another baby on the way. Marcus got to marry a woman who loved him. Sabina got rid of her evil mother. Aside from Paulinus, everything ended pretty much the way I wanted it to (hide spoiler) ] I know that seems like an odd thing to say but something when you like a book as much as I liked this one, you kind of hope for something more, something unexpected at the end. Not to say this book didn't have it's unexpected moments, but I really just didn't feel the end was one of them. It let me down a little but not enough to give this book less than five stars. ...more I believe this may very well have been the first book in months if not a year to have taken me over four days to complete, and believe me I was up until the very wee hours of the morning reading, going to school anticipating that night when I could open the book and begin reading again. Why did it take me so long, size is not a daunting factor to me. In fact I love a book that is lengthy, no, it was not the size. It was the detail the detail that draws you into the story leaving you wishing you I believe this may very well have been the first book in months if not a year to have taken me over four days to complete, and believe me I was up until the very wee hours of the morning reading, going to school anticipating that night when I could open the book and begin reading again. Why did it take me so long, size is not a daunting factor to me. In fact I love a book that is lengthy, no, it was not the size. It was the detail the detail that draws you into the story leaving you wishing you never had to put the book aside or complete it. I will admit, I do not read much historical fiction, but after reading The Mistress of Rome, I'm really going to have to consider it more greatly, I nothing short of loved this book. I know that sometimes large amounts of sex and violence are factors which cause people to turn away from books, I myself have thought these things at one time or another, however I have nothing but praise for Kate Quinn and her writing style which brought these characters to life! There was something so human and real about each of the characters and I cannot wait for her next book, I'll certainly be running out to purchase it if it is to be anything like the Mistress of Rome. I could not believe how vivid this book really was, I was drawn in from the very first page until the very last and it has stayed with me for quite some time after the completion of the novel itself. I found this in my school library, however I am going to have to hunt down a copy to call my own, as I see it as a novel I would re-read over and over again. Thea is a character who despite her faults and dark personality you come to love for her strength and determination. Although her choices are somewhat questionable she is an excellent character in which to perceive this world, as was Lepida who, despite my dislike for her was yet another interesting and captivating character. What I found most interesting was her complete lack of morals and her personality, completely driven by her desire for power, willing to anything in order to gain it. Both women proved to have their own strengths and weaknesses which defined them and marked them as separate from one another. Creating two highly distinct voices int he novel. I'm recommending this to older teens and above. Particularly if you are looking for something a little different or something that is filled with the passion, treachery and secrets which this fictionalized Roman Empire portrays. 5 Stars. ...more Orgies, slaves, gladiators, love and betrayal... this book has it all! A must read for anyone interested in ancient cultures, especially Rome. Romantic yet in the tradition of many tragedies, despair and torture are an integral part of this story. Ironic yet very intriguing, I had a very very hard time putting this novel down for even a few minutes. I couldn't wait to see where it would go next and who was doing what to/with whom! We follow the life of Thea, a Jewish slave girl, who is no ordinar Orgies, slaves, gladiators, love and betrayal... this book has it all! A must read for anyone interested in ancient cultures, especially Rome. Romantic yet in the tradition of many tragedies, despair and torture are an integral part of this story. Ironic yet very intriguing, I had a very very hard time putting this novel down for even a few minutes. I couldn't wait to see where it would go next and who was doing what to/with whom! We follow the life of Thea, a Jewish slave girl, who is no ordinary slave. She refuses to be cowed by anyone, her master, and even the highest authority in the Roman Empire. Likewise, the gladiator or 'Barbarian' Arius, shows a similar iron strength of will, the desire to be released from his own enslavement and captivity of his soul. Both main characters have early tragic life experiences that shape their fortitude of spirits. Both suffer greatly throughout most of their childhoods and adulthood. And later, both help bring down the whole Roman empire because of this non-submissive behavior. Very well written, with tons of intrigue and political conspiracies, but when it boils down it is the story of life... desire, betrayal, suffering, greed, and power, and above all--unconditional love(all the elements of a great tragedy). I highly recommend reading this novel and can't wait for the next one that continues the story of one of the Senators daughters of the Empire. ...more<---C>Titus Flavius Domitianus</---C>", "Title": "Mistress of Rome"},
