{"Comments": "The end of this book disappointed me - bitterly. The other two books of the series were brilliant,<---M> if they did do a little rambling</---M>, there was no harm in it. However, I might as well have skipped the majority of this book. I found Ashalind's main journey to be bland, and uninteresting, as well as confusing. Also, the lack of emotion displayed by some characters was unnerving. Although I started to like it towards the end, because Dart-Thornton had FINALLY gotten her act together, and stopped the The end of this book disappointed me - bitterly. The other two books of the series were brilliant, if they did do a little rambling, there was no harm in it. However, I might as well have skipped the majority of this book. I found Ashalind's main journey to be bland, and uninteresting, as well as confusing. Also, the lack of emotion displayed by some characters was unnerving. Although I started to like it towards the end, because Dart-Thornton had FINALLY gotten her act together, and stopped the waffling, I intensely disliked it at the very end. The resolution was rushed, and it had seemed like Dart-Thornton was simply making up excuses to stop the story, and picked the shortest ending that she could think of. While I do not like this book, I enjoyed the creativity of the series, even if most of it was borrowed from folk-tales. the battle of evernight: the bitterbynde book III ...more (This is a joint review for the entire trilogy. No spoilers) So, the first book in the trilogy is titled The Ill-Made Mute.<---F> I highly recommend it</---F>. Now, a large part of the book is very hard to wade through. I would not be surprised if this woman had earned a doctorate in pre-Industrial Celtic and Anglo-Saxon folk tales and legends. She incorporates almost every known folk tale from these cultures as a bona-fide part of her world. The Great Hunt rides at night, seelie and un-seelie wights await a (This is a joint review for the entire trilogy. No spoilers) So, the first book in the trilogy is titled The Ill-Made Mute. I highly recommend it. Now, a large part of the book is very hard to wade through. I would not be surprised if this woman had earned a doctorate in pre-Industrial Celtic and Anglo-Saxon folk tales and legends. She incorporates almost every known folk tale from these cultures as a bona-fide part of her world. The Great Hunt rides at night, seelie and un-seelie wights await at every turn, and more or less every superstition is held as gospel. The woman uses a few Gaelic terms here and there, and much of the spellings, and many of the names, are Celtic. This can get very distracting. There will be long, drawn out 20 page passages where she basically just retells a folk tale for the reader, without any of the book's characters participating, just listening to the tale be told, or she'll even pause the action entirely to give this as a 20 page aside. And when words like Fithiach, Imrhien and Each Uisage are used at whims, the book can sometimes be hard to wade through. But, the tale was amazing, and she is perhaps the best author I've read at being able to make the world around you seem alive. Never before have I read a book where the author evokes in me the thoughts and feelings I had as a child going camping. Every odd noise in the woods was some animal, or a sprite of some kind just out of sight, playing games with our fears. The world is truly alive around you. This was a whole new type of fantasy writing. The tale itself concerns a disfigured mute amnesiac (say that three times fast) who stumbles out of a collapsed mineshaft and is taken in by some type of scullery maid or something. The whole tale is told third person limited, so we only know of the world what this mute knows, which is nothing. It's a great way to introduce the world to us. And what a world it is. There's apparently 2 metals in this world not in ours, sildron and allium. Sildron has the peculiar magnetic property of repelling gravity. Allium, when placed between sildron and earth, nullifies this anti-grav effect. Thus, a whole culture of airborne messengers riding winged horses with sildron-shod feet arises. There are huge sailing ships, akin to the British Navy of the 1700s, with their external hulls lined with sildron, and movable allium covers (allowing them to change their amount of lift). Combine all this with a typical medieval fantasy world, and add in all the folk legends, and you have one helluva new world. Despite what may sound like a few big flags and complaints on my end, I fully suggest everyone read it, if for nothing else than a look at a refreshing new fantasy world, and a completely different writing style than any I've ever come across before. I liked it enough to want to buy the rest of the trilogy Partly because of the novelty of her writing style, and partly because Book II (The Lady of the Sorrows) had a character named The Lady Dianella in it. So, back during my latest Barnes and Noble buying spree I picked up the second and third (<+++>The Battle of Evernight</+++>) books. The cool thing is, about 3/4 of the way through book 2 (The Lady of the Sorrows), some very cool plot developments arise that make you realize she probably planned out and wrote all three books before anyone even saw 1 page of them, and that they are very cooly thought out and planned. And there is some exciting action and interesting plot twists. Many kudos to her for a well thought out series. She also knows her geology and botany. The problem, however, is that the 20 page asides have grow both in frequency and length, and instead of being a decent quest fantasy, it somehow rapidly turned into a harlequin romance. Or at least, a bunch of Victorian type damsels at court pining and wisting away in very flowery language over the same, graceful, exquisitely handsome (sorry, comely), sensitive, caring, and understanding man. There was even mention somewhere about a woman being proud that the one thing she was able to give to the man who had everything was the most marvelous gift of all, the once given and always cherished maidenhead. Yes, that was how she described it. Or maybe he described it that way. Either way, the books weren't what I bargained for. I found myself skimming 20, 30, 60 page passages at a time simply to getback to a plot and some semblance of a break from internal dialogues. This is the first time I've skipped chunks of a book since I tried to read Dr. Zhivago entirely in 1 night, for a quiz the next morning. (It didn't go well at all) Also, the novel writing style she had in the first book becomes bloated and amplified, so that every description is a long string of alliteration, metaphor, and hyperbole, not to mention anthropomorphization. I mean, passages like, \"the book of night opened across the sky, it's paragraphs written in constellations\" can be very cool, but when that's the shortest, clearest, and most direct description of nightfall the woman can come up with (and believe me, there were many many more in the book, all of them long and pointless ways of saying \"it was nighttime\") - then there's an editor somewhere sound asleep at her desk, or just not showing up for work. This woman can make Robert Jordan's descriptive style seem sparse and insufficient. Anyway, skipping to the end... In the paperback version I have of the third book (<+++>The Battle of Evernight</+++>), there is a one-page epilogue/Author's Note that says, in a nutshell, that when the first edition of the third book came out, no one could understand the ending. Not that they couldn't see how the characters could do whatever it is they did, but that no one was at all clear on what happened. Apparently, there was enough confusion about this that the author felt it necessary (in the paperback release) to include a few paragraphs explaining, in layman's terms, exactly what happened in clear and understandable language. ...more I battled my way through all three of these books - and the ending so annoyed me that I almost tossed the last volume out the window. What could she have been thinking!?! Do you want a book that is the most disappointing ending possible to a very promising trilogy? Do you want a book where any charm or dimension that the characters once had is completely erased? A book where the plot is extremely redundant, endless variations on the plot \"twist\" \"you were told in absolutely certain terms to never violate this rule about dealing with fairies, and you violated it! EXTREMELY VIOLENT CONSEQUENCES which for some reason the heroes will escape from scot-free!\"? Does your Do you want a book that is the most disappointing ending possible to a very promising trilogy? Do you want a book where any charm or dimension that the characters once had is completely erased? A book where the plot is extremely redundant, endless variations on the plot \"twist\" \"you were told in absolutely certain terms to never violate this rule about dealing with fairies, and you violated it! EXTREMELY VIOLENT CONSEQUENCES which for some reason the heroes will escape from scot-free!\"? Does your heart crave a book that has eschewed all the actual interesting character interactions for a dumb, tell-don't-show romance with a boring, one-dimensional Gary Stu of a love interest? Does your fantasy-loving soul crave a book full of underdeveloped fairy creatures, each of whom speaks in a less intelligible accent than the one before? Is your idea of wonderful worldbuilding to craft an inventive and richly colorful archipelago, then at the end of the series reveal that the author never gave two hoots about what became of the world she made, and that world can go and rot for all she cares as long as the heroine gets a \"\"\"happy ending\"\"\"? A really weird \"happy ending\" that was so poorly explained that the author has to add an epilogue? Do you want to be bored, frustrated, irritated, and furious that such a promising series should have degenerated into such dreck? Then The Battle of Evernight is the book for you! ...more Okay, I've given this three stars as I like the story, but the writing has turned me insane. Two pages given to describing the food at a coronation - written as a list mind. The end of the book was so vague that when publishing as paperback the author had to add 5 pages describing how the book ended and that it was happy. I don't want to spoil it but basically the heroine was trapped on Erith and had lost all her memories again. Her true love trapped in Fairy land. The author explained that bird Okay, I've given this three stars as I like the story, but the writing has turned me insane. Two pages given to describing the food at a coronation - written as a list mind. The end of the book was so vague that when publishing as paperback the author had to add 5 pages describing how the book ended and that it was happy. I don't want to spoil it but basically the heroine was trapped on Erith and had lost all her memories again. Her true love trapped in Fairy land. The author explained that birds had taken a secret to him and he kidnapped her back, returned her memory and disguised someone else (willing victim) as her to fool the 'king'. Shouldn't this be in the actual book! Do yourself a favour, don't start the trilogy! This is the first time I've been moved to write any type of review, let that be a warning! ...more Non ci posso credere, il supplizio \u00e8 terminato! Eh, perch\u00e9 \u00e8 stato davvero un supplizio. Descrizioni interminabili, interludi inutili, continue pause di (sprecata) riflessione della protagonista che pare non sappia fare altro che autocommiserarsi, ed ecco qua un sonnifero bello che pronto. Peccato, perch\u00e9 la storia in s\u00e9, e intendo il contenuto di tutta la trilogia, non era davvero niente male. Ben elaborata, ben strutturata, avvincente ed accattivante. Tutto ottimo materiale buttato nel gabinet Non ci posso credere, il supplizio \u00e8 terminato! Eh, perch\u00e9 \u00e8 stato davvero un supplizio. Descrizioni interminabili, interludi inutili, continue pause di (sprecata) riflessione della protagonista che pare non sappia fare altro che autocommiserarsi, ed ecco qua un sonnifero bello che pronto. Peccato, perch\u00e9 la storia in s\u00e9, e intendo il contenuto di tutta la trilogia, non era davvero niente male. Ben elaborata, ben strutturata, avvincente ed accattivante. Tutto ottimo materiale buttato nel gabinetto. Ci si sarebbe potuto scrivere un ottimo romanzone, a mio parere. Bisognava dilungarsi un po' di meno e tagliare un duecento pagine abbondanti da ogni libro. Se tutti i libri della Dart-Thornton sono cos\u00ec, che il Cielo ce ne scampi. ...more The Bitterbynde Trilogy concludes with the same breaks for miscellaneous faerie tale additions and diversions from the main plot. While it may have been enlightening the first two novels, I found it annoying in the first half of the book. The journey north was painstakingly slow and the real motivation behind it made little sense. The rest of the story is entertaining and the revelations of how Angavar and his Court supplanted James's is which unexpected even if his identity can be figured out. The Bitterbynde Trilogy concludes with the same breaks for miscellaneous faerie tale additions and diversions from the main plot. While it may have been enlightening the first two novels, I found it annoying in the first half of the book. The journey north was painstakingly slow and the real motivation behind it made little sense. The rest of the story is entertaining and the revelations of how Angavar and his Court supplanted James's is which unexpected even if his identity can be figured out. The end was utterly shocking and a little depressing though the last paragraph is vital to the ending. ...more Loved it. But yes I struggled to accept the ending. But when I had thought about it for a while I realized that there really was no other way to end the story. Remember people: most traditional fairy tales are not happy endings. They are cautionary tales about dealing with the supernatural. Disney has written happy endings not in the original stories. Did I want a Disney ending? Absolutely! Did I enjoy the book anyway? Loved it!! Third in the trilogy and was a GRAVE dissapointment. I loved the other two books out of the bitterbynde trilogy and thought they were brilliant from start to finish. I loved the way this book begun but in the middle i was completely bored. I felt that the \"bad guys\" of the book werent bad enough and in the end you arent sure who to like or dislike. The ending was rushed and left the reader extremely infulfilled! In comparison on the previous 2 book this was a huge let down Well! Where do I begin? This trilogy had such an impact on me - and not in the way I hope to impact on my readers! - that I am now putting together a blog post on it. I felt bitterly disappointed and betrayed by how this trilogy ended, so much so that I will not be reading any more books by this author. :( I really liked this trilogy when I started reading it. I loved <---A>Cecilia Dart-Thornton</---A>'s wealth of folklore cleverly woven into her texts and her poetic descriptions. I loved the premise of floating metals and mysterious shang winds, of hidden treasures and pirate rogues. The Hobbit is one of my favourite books and I could see its influence on the shape of the text. But these poetic descriptions I felt were over-used, and although they were beautiful I found myself skipping over them more and more I really liked this trilogy when I started reading it. I loved Cecilia Dart-Thornton's wealth of folklore cleverly woven into her texts and her poetic descriptions. I loved the premise of floating metals and mysterious shang winds, of hidden treasures and pirate rogues. The Hobbit is one of my favourite books and I could see its influence on the shape of the text. But these poetic descriptions I felt were over-used, and although they were beautiful I found myself skipping over them more and more just to get on with the story. By the third book in the Bitterbynde series I was pretty disappointed. The language of familiar intimacy between Thorn and Rohain was stilted by the fact that it relied on the archaic thee, thou and thy, which just made it seem cumbersome and full of 'courtly pretence'. The 'surprise reveal' ending was quite predictable and a number of the more interesting and unique aspects of the novel are never fully explained. I really liked the imaginative ideas and the vast collection of folklore woven into the text, I was disappointed it ended on a bit of a fizzle. ...more I just could not get into this book \u2013 never really felt like picking it up. Although I really liked the first book of the trilogy, I felt like the characters in this book weren't even the same people \u2013 or anyone at all, really. There was a completely different \u2018feel' to the writing \u2013 and the \u2018poetry' just took over. If one is interested in reading over 600 pages of overly flowery and often redundant descriptive phrases, while lovely cardboard characters sigh and languish and wander around on que I just could not get into this book \u2013 never really felt like picking it up. Although I really liked the first book of the trilogy, I felt like the characters in this book weren't even the same people \u2013 or anyone at all, really. There was a completely different \u2018feel' to the writing \u2013 and the \u2018poetry' just took over. If one is interested in reading over 600 pages of overly flowery and often redundant descriptive phrases, while lovely cardboard characters sigh and languish and wander around on quests that don't seem to go anywhere.... well, then please do check this book out. I found it to be particularly disappointing, because I thought that the first book of the trilogy showed remarkable promise. However, as the story went on all the original and interesting aspects were gradually eliminated, and all the flaws multiplied and took over. It's too bad \u2013 but I can't say I'll seek out any more of this author's books. ...more Hard to get through. I don't know why; the prose was rather impenetrable, but no more so than in her earlier two, which I found oddly readable despite that. The plot, partly - it wandered, but then the earlier two did as well. Characters? Fewer interesting secondary characters, less interesting setting, or maybe I'd just lost patience with them somehow. A pity, because I did enjoy the earlier two, and also because she did come up with good answers for some of the things I disliked in the earlier Hard to get through. I don't know why; the prose was rather impenetrable, but no more so than in her earlier two, which I found oddly readable despite that. The plot, partly - it wandered, but then the earlier two did as well. Characters? Fewer interesting secondary characters, less interesting setting, or maybe I'd just lost patience with them somehow. A pity, because I did enjoy the earlier two, and also because she did come up with good answers for some of the things I disliked in the earlier books - Thorn was inhumanly attractive and capable because he was, in fact, inhuman, for one. I choose to believe the second option at the ending - that she was spirited away by her unworldly lover to beyond the gate. The other was too pointless and stupid a tragic ending, and unworthy of both the prince and his supposedly befuddled bride. ...more The clunky style problems in this book are as evident as in the previous ones in the trilogy and the plot was so dull I find myself forgetting long chunks of it whilst still reading. The only reason I did persevere with reading was for the payoff to Ashalind's story and I found the ending unsatisfying, unclear and unbelievable. Was she really so stupid as to do the exact opposite of what Thorn told her two seconds after he was gone? How did anyone else get through the gate when it was held open The clunky style problems in this book are as evident as in the previous ones in the trilogy and the plot was so dull I find myself forgetting long chunks of it whilst still reading. The only reason I did persevere with reading was for the payoff to Ashalind's story and I found the ending unsatisfying, unclear and unbelievable. Was she really so stupid as to do the exact opposite of what Thorn told her two seconds after he was gone? How did anyone else get through the gate when it was held open with her hair? How did she forgive him so easily for lying to her about who he was (twice)? Even with suspension of disbelief, the style (first from Caitri, then through an old fairy tale) in which the end of the story was told put me at a remove that made it difficult to feel any emotional payoff. Bleh. ...more Hmm I don't know why all these reviews are so angry but that's probably because I read the hardcover version with the revised ending. You think Dart-Thornton's ending was rushed or poorly written? HA! Her ending was ORIGINAL and CREATIVE. Talk about a plot twist! It would have been so easy for Ash to just go and marry Thorn, happily ever after, the end. Instead, Dart-Thornton throws a wrench in it and makes it all the more sympathetic. I always felt as though Ash had it way too easy throughout th Hmm I don't know why all these reviews are so angry but that's probably because I read the hardcover version with the revised ending. You think Dart-Thornton's ending was rushed or poorly written? HA! Her ending was ORIGINAL and CREATIVE. Talk about a plot twist! It would have been so easy for Ash to just go and marry Thorn, happily ever after, the end. Instead, Dart-Thornton throws a wrench in it and makes it all the more sympathetic. I always felt as though Ash had it way too easy throughout the books when it came to her and Thorn's relationship so I was pleased when it ended in a rougher manner than was expected. ...more Book three, loved it just as much as the first two! If you like the old, old folklore like faie folk, silkie and kelpie this series is definatly for you! The epic ending of the trilogy, everything comes to an amazing conclusion! However i recommend that you go to http://www.dartthornton.com/bitterby/... after you read it for the 13th chapter not included in the book itself! A wonderfully sweeping story that gathers every loose end and dangling rope from the first two books in the series and ties them into a beautiful piece of art. The writing was lyrical and you were deeply imbedded into the story every minute you read it. One of my all time favorite series! The ending was just chopped off, but as a positive side note you can read and extra chapter on Cecilia Dart-Thornton's website where she extends the end of the book. yea! Thank you Mrs. Dart-Thornton! I loved this book almost as much as the other ones, not knowing what is suppose to/going to happen. My only problem is that it is a bittersweet ending, not what I expected, but still good. I definitely recommend this series. I really truly enjoyed this series, and this third installment did not disappoint. Well worth the read. What a horrible ending There was still a lot I'd rambling around, but all the loose ends are satisfactorily tied up. I did not see the true identity of Thorn coming. It just seems like it took a loooooong time to get to the end. This could have been a really satisfying single book with a much tighter plot and less attention to language and adding in traditional stories. Some of those stories were related to the story and I loved that clever incorporation. Some of he descriptive passages were very lyrical and added to There was still a lot I'd rambling around, but all the loose ends are satisfactorily tied up. I did not see the true identity of Thorn coming. It just seems like it took a loooooong time to get to the end. This could have been a really satisfying single book with a much tighter plot and less attention to language and adding in traditional stories. Some of those stories were related to the story and I loved that clever incorporation. Some of he descriptive passages were very lyrical and added to the mood and world building. But a lot of it seemed superfluous and self indulgent. The ending surprisingly tight, unexpected and really nice. Evidently many readers were unhappy with it so Dart-Thornton wrote an additional chapter with a much more complete ending. I didn't really find it better, except the description of the clothing of the bride was gorgeous. I almost abandoned this series so many times, but I did want to find out what happened. ...more This is the final book in the Bitterbynde trilogy, and while it was overall just as gripping and well-crafted as the second part, I\u2019ll dock it a point for the unsatisfying ending. I was by this point also getting a little weary of the constant major revelations that keep changing your idea of who a major character is (which wasn\u2019t confined to just the protagonist). To me, names are very important in a book, and I dislike it when the main character keeps changing theirs with every book you read. S This is the final book in the Bitterbynde trilogy, and while it was overall just as gripping and well-crafted as the second part, I\u2019ll dock it a point for the unsatisfying ending. I was by this point also getting a little weary of the constant major revelations that keep changing your idea of who a major character is (which wasn\u2019t confined to just the protagonist). To me, names are very important in a book, and I dislike it when the main character keeps changing theirs with every book you read. So, Imrhien of book one, who changed her name to Rohain in book two without so much as a protest, turns out to really be Ashalind na Pendran, the Talith (blond) girl who was present when the gates to the faerie lands were closed forever, which locked out the Faeran king and his treacherous brother. Except for most of this book, Ashalind calls herself Tahquil, to avoid detection. With me so far? Ashalind/Tahquil decided at the last moment to leave the faerie lands and go back to the normal world, but because she left it so late she became trapped inside the Gate of Oblivion\u2019s Kiss at the moment of closing. This gives her the option of going either way, but once the gate then closes it will remain closed forever. She chose the real world, but managed to wedge the door open, and is now on a quest to find the Faeran king, Angavar, to offer him the chance to return to his realm. However, because time runs at a different pace inside the faerie lands, a thousand years have passed on the outside, and Ashalind lost her memory due to the geas \u2013 a kind of curse \u2013 that was placed on the Gate. If this is confusing, the previous book explained it all in far more detail. Having regained her memory, Ashalind must now avoid capturing the attention of Morragan, Angavar\u2019s brother, who was the one who caused the gates to be shut forever, and whose plot to try and lock out the king resulted in them both suffering that fate. Ashalind\u2019s memory has returned incompletely, and most of the book is devoted to her journey to try and find the location of the gate she left open. The trek covers weeks, and she is accompanied by her two courtly servants/friends, Caitri and Viviana, as they trudge through dangerous landscapes populated with unseelie creatures bent on their destruction. To make matters worse, the return of Ashalind\u2019s memories has also meant the return of the Langothe, the debilitating homesickness for the faerie lands that affects all mortals who have visited it, and which will eventually kill her. Further events in the book again involve major revelations, everything is taken yet another step higher, but the final section of the book was to me very unsatisfactory, and I would maybe even say unnecessary. There is a postscript from the author explaining the end, but that shouldn\u2019t have been necessary, even if the explanation made the ending more satisfying. I would still recommend this trilogy to anyone who isn\u2019t afraid of glossing over unknown words \u2013 lots of them \u2013 and who wants a bittersweet tale of magical creatures in a world of vast, dangerous landscapes with a dollop of romance thrown in. That said, I would be lying if I ranked it among my favourite series. More reviews at Silk Screen Views . ...more Molti secoli or sono, i Cancelli del Regno si chiusero, intrappolando nella mortale Erith il re fatato Angavar e il suo gemello Morragan, il Principe Corvo. Una creatura deturpata, senza nome e senza memoria; Imhrien dai capelli d'oro, una fuggitiva alla ricerca del proprio passato; Lady Rohain Tarrenys delle Isole Sorrows, nobildonna alla corte imperiale di Caermelor. Tre identit\u00e0, tre vite diverse, una sola persona: Ashalind na Pendran, l'unica sopravvissuta dell'antica razza talith, figlia di Molti secoli or sono, i Cancelli del Regno si chiusero, intrappolando nella mortale Erith il re fatato Angavar e il suo gemello Morragan, il Principe Corvo. Una creatura deturpata, senza nome e senza memoria; Imhrien dai capelli d'oro, una fuggitiva alla ricerca del proprio passato; Lady Rohain Tarrenys delle Isole Sorrows, nobildonna alla corte imperiale di Caermelor. Tre identit\u00e0, tre vite diverse, una sola persona: Ashalind na Pendran, l'unica sopravvissuta dell'antica razza talith, figlia di un regno che \u00e8 ormai divenuto polvere. Il ritrovamento di un braccialetto d'oro le ha restituito la memoria perduta, facendole ricordare un tempo lontano, nella terra di Avlantia, quando la citt\u00e0 di Hythe Mellyn fu salvata dall'invasione dei topi grazie a un misterioso Pifferaio, il quale, non pagato per i suoi servigi, si era poi vendicato trascinando tutti i bambini nel fatato mondo di Fa\u00earie. Ashalind aveva liberato i bambini facendo loro attraversare la Porta del Bacio dell'Oblio, ma, quando il magico passaggio si era richiuso, era stata sbalzata su una terra lontana nello spazio e nel tempo, mille anni nel futuro. Ora la fanciulla vaga per le terre conosciute di Erith, popolate non soltanto dagli uomini, ma anche da creature immortali, gli eldritch wight; alcune di esse sono benevole verso gli umani, altre sono infide e mettono alla prova quanti incrociano il loro cammino attraverso enigmi, malie, pegni e sortilegi che possono portare alla morte. Sono queste le sfide che Ashalind dovr\u00e0 affrontare per ricongiungersi con l'amato Thorn, il re-imperatore di Caermelor. Allo stesso tempo dovr\u00e0 guardarsi dalla terribile minaccia di Morragan, il Principe Corvo, che da mille anni le d\u00e0 la caccia perch\u00e9 soltanto lei pu\u00f2 riaprire i Cancelli e mettere cos\u00ec fine alla sua prigionia. Ma la mente di Tahquil \u00e8 ancora ottenebrata da un potente incantesimo e il suo corpo si sta consumando a causa di una misteriosa malattia chiamata langothe, il fatale rimpianto che coglie tutti i mortali che hanno conosciuto Fa\u00earie. E la cura - insieme con lo svelamento del mistero che avvolge il suo passato - si trova proprio a Evernight, la fortezza di Morragan. Mi \u00e8 dispiaciuto un pochino per il finale. Mi aspettavo qualcosa di... non so, qualcosa di pi\u00f9. Citazioni: - \"Agli occhi di chi ama, la persona amata trascende tra gli eletti, perde ogni difetto e diventa ultraterrena\" - \"Il libro della notte si apr\u00ec su quelle pagine buie dove le rune delle costellazioni parlano del loro incantesimo, vecchio quanto l'evoluzione\" - \"Siamo come foglie al vento in questa ricerca, sbattute da una parte e dall'altra dai capricci di un destino sempre imprevedibile\" - \"Anche se non abbiamo modo di decidere dove la strada della vita deve portarci, possiamo stabilire dove appoggiare i piedi e cosa guardare lungo il percorso\" - \"I pregiudizi sono lo scudo dei narcisisti\" ...more Ho iniziato questa saga non so quanti anni fa e, nonostante fossi rimasta affascinata dal primo libro, per un motivo o per un altro non sono riuscita a continuare la lettura della trilogia. Sono riuscita a reperire questo terzo ed ultimo libro solo quest\u2019anno e, non appena l\u2019ho avuto tra le mani, mi ci sono buttata a capofitto. Avevo le aspettative alle stelle, ma anche il terrore che il libro conclusivo mi deludesse com\u2019\u00e8 gi\u00e0 successo con altre trilogie (vedi: Hunger Games); fortunatamente \u00e8 st Ho iniziato questa saga non so quanti anni fa e, nonostante fossi rimasta affascinata dal primo libro, per un motivo o per un altro non sono riuscita a continuare la lettura della trilogia. Sono riuscita a reperire questo terzo ed ultimo libro solo quest\u2019anno e, non appena l\u2019ho avuto tra le mani, mi ci sono buttata a capofitto. Avevo le aspettative alle stelle, ma anche il terrore che il libro conclusivo mi deludesse com\u2019\u00e8 gi\u00e0 successo con altre trilogie (vedi: Hunger Games); fortunatamente \u00e8 stata una lettura piacevolissima e la degna conclusione di quella che ritengo essere una meravigliosa serie. Perch\u00e9 mi \u00e8 piaciuto questo libro \u2013 o, pi\u00f9 in generale, questa trilogia? Mi \u00e8 piaciuto perch\u00e9 ha come fondo una trama originale ed accattivante e che, a mio parere, non scade mai nel banale o nel noioso durante il suo svolgimento; mi \u00e8 piaciuto perch\u00e9 niente \u00e8 lasciato al caso o scritto tanto per riempire le pagine e perch\u00e9 tutti i dubbi e le domande che il lettore potrebbe porsi durante la lettura vengono poi chiariti dall\u2019autrice. Ci\u00f2 che mi ha affascinata di pi\u00f9 sono state le leggende nordiche e le creature mitologiche attorno alle quali ruota l\u2019intera storia. Queste sono davvero numerose e, per far s\u00ec che al lettore risulti tutto chiaro e che non si confonda, sono presenti lunghissime e dettagliatissime descrizioni, sia delle creature che di Erith, il mondo in cui vivono. Come ho notato leggendo varie recensioni, tali descrizioni sono state motivo di noia per molti lettori, problema che io, essendo un\u2019appassionata di miti e leggende e una persona a cui piace che tutto sia spiegato per bene, non ho minimamente riscontrato. \u00c8 pur vero, per\u00f2, che proprio a causa di tutte queste descrizioni bisogna prestare davvero molta attenzione durante la lettura per evitare di perdersi qualche passaggio fondamentale. L\u2019unica pecca di questo libro \u00e8 il finale, che \u00e8 troppo veloce. Sono rimasta un po\u2019 perplessa e anche un po\u2019 delusa, perch\u00e9 dopo aver seguito ogni istante del viaggio di Ashalind e delle sue compagne ed aver tenuto il fiato sospeso alla fine del penultimo capitolo, non ho gradito molto la scelta di un epilogo di sole tre pagine, che non \u00e8 altro se non un ricordo, un racconto. Mi ha ricordato un po\u2019 la voce di un adulto che, dopo aver raccontato per filo e per segno una fiaba ad un bambino, ne recita il finale; quel \u201ce vissero tutti felici e contenti\u201d che riassume anni e anni della vita futura dei protagonisti della storia e che lascia un po\u2019 l\u2019amaro in bocca all\u2019ascoltatore. Nonostante questo il libro mi \u00e8 piaciuto davvero tantissimo e si merita tutte e cinque le stelline che gli ho dato \u2013 a causa del finale darei quattro e mezzo, ma in mancanza di mezzi arrotondo per eccesso. ...more 2/10 Prosegue sui binari tracciati dai due libri precedenti: la struttura \u00e8 sempre pi\u00f9 compatta e coerente, il contenuto sempre pi\u00f9 stucchevole. La Darth-Thornton sfoga qui tutta la sua passione per le descrizioni interminabili, le rivelazioni pi\u00f9 telefonate che in una soap opera, i personaggi Sue fuor di maniera. Thorn \u00e8 sempre la perfettissima perfetta epitome di perfezione che era nel romanzo precedente, tanto che \u2013 sorpresa! - scopriamo che anche il volto meraviglioso che \u00e8 stato ritornato ad 2/10 Prosegue sui binari tracciati dai due libri precedenti: la struttura \u00e8 sempre pi\u00f9 compatta e coerente, il contenuto sempre pi\u00f9 stucchevole. La Darth-Thornton sfoga qui tutta la sua passione per le descrizioni interminabili, le rivelazioni pi\u00f9 telefonate che in una soap opera, i personaggi Sue fuor di maniera. Thorn \u00e8 sempre la perfettissima perfetta epitome di perfezione che era nel romanzo precedente, tanto che \u2013 sorpresa! - scopriamo che anche il volto meraviglioso che \u00e8 stato ritornato ad Ashalind dalla carlin in realt\u00e0 era opera sua (che eroe! E ora tutti a trasformare l'acqua in vino). Ashalind riceve finalmente il suo diploma da Mary Sue Madonnina Infilzata, con le sue capacit\u00e0 semidivine random (\u00e8 l'unica umana immune al langothe), il suo amore per il melodramma pompato all'inverosimile e la sua attitudine da zerbino: lei stessa si descrive in modo perfetto cos\u00ec, \u201cio ho fatto una sola vera scelta in vita mia, e in tutto il resto sono stata costretta ad agire da situazioni causate da altri\u201d (e se ne compiace pure... ). Tutti coloro che la conoscono non possono fare a meno di amarla perdutamente, compreso il suo figlioccio; ma lei ha gi\u00e0 un innamorato! Triangolo amoroso da Young Adult della minchia mode: on! E' il momento giusto per mettere in chiaro con il suo stalker che qualcuno deve levarsi dalle palle in tempo tre secondi, giusto? Sbagliato: passive-aggressive Ashalind, la donna a cui Bella Swan guarda con disgusto, si taglia i capelli per apparire brutta (ahahahahaha!) e venire cos\u00ec scaricata dal pretendente indesiderato. Risultato: i capelli le ricrescono subito, pi\u00f9 belli e Sueschi di prima! Piango. Ma lo schifo anti-femminista non finisce qui: per recuperare l'anello di matrimonio del marito, Ashalind non esita a sacrificare un bracciale unico ricordo del padre tanto amato come l'unica scelta possibile; la verginit\u00e0 \u00e8 \u201cil dono che ogni donna pu\u00f2 fare una volta sola\u201d, e lei ovviamente non pu\u00f2 che farlo al suo Tru Wuv; un personaggio maschile sostiene di \u201cnon poter aver paura di qualcosa di cui si fanno beffe tre fanciulle\u201d; delle ragazze che durante una celebrazione folkloristica danno dei baci al re della festa sono delle svergognate; una delle compagne di Ashalind ottiene il suo lieto fine sposando uno psicopatico che per giunta non la ama nemmeno \u2013 ma lei ama lui, ed \u00e8 questo l'importante! ...more NOTE: The book has a HAPPY ending. One that's cryptic in the book, but explained further in Cecilia's \"extra chapter\" on her website. So don't give her a bad rating for the supposed \"sad ending\". A poetic book - full of rich and sumptuous description and overwhelmingly beautiful imagery. Cecilia Dart-Thornton takes readers *into* her fantasy world and immerses us until we see everything in as much detail as she does. While some have criticised her descriptive style of writing, I adore it, because NOTE: The book has a HAPPY ending. One that's cryptic in the book, but explained further in Cecilia's \"extra chapter\" on her website. So don't give her a bad rating for the supposed \"sad ending\". A poetic book - full of rich and sumptuous description and overwhelmingly beautiful imagery. Cecilia Dart-Thornton takes readers *into* her fantasy world and immerses us until we see everything in as much detail as she does. While some have criticised her descriptive style of writing, I adore it, because it completely brings to life the world of Erith in all its peril and wonder. The Battle of Evernight is my favourite out of the Bitterbynde trilogy partly because it takes me to some of the most beautiful places in fantasy. It is an exploration well worth the time - a world of beauty well worth the attention. I am surprised so many people failed to understand the ending. It is NOT a sad ending. It is an extremely HAPPY ending (although just *before* the ending seems like it is going to be sad). Perhaps the cryptic language Cecilia Dart-Thornton used to make the ending is what confused many readers. For those I would recommend visiting her website http://www.dartthornton.com/ and reading the \"extra chapter\" that explicitly explains the ending. Anyway, the book is beautiful on so many levels. The Battle of Evernight (as with the entire Bitterbynde trilogy) is a true gateway to Faerie. I highly recommend it. ...more In the third installment of this tale, the story continues to flow smoothly and in a logical manner. At times the description can be a little over the top by using a few too many examples for the reader (one or two would suffice). In the authors defence, I think she may have got a little excited and got carried away at these points because it's normally during the action-packed parts of the story (or just before). A lot happens in this book, the events are very vivid and have the reader on edge u In the third installment of this tale, the story continues to flow smoothly and in a logical manner. At times the description can be a little over the top by using a few too many examples for the reader (one or two would suffice). In the authors defence, I think she may have got a little excited and got carried away at these points because it's normally during the action-packed parts of the story (or just before). A lot happens in this book, the events are very vivid and have the reader on edge until everything is ok again. A lot more unfolds in this story, especially now that she knows who she is and is remembering more and more of her past. The story holds quite a few unexpected twists which can be quite exciting. Without giving too much of the book away, it's a definite read if you've read the other two books. It sums up the story nicely. The only thing I would have changed is the ending is written in such a way that lets the reader make up their own mind. Personally I prefer it when the author just tells you otherwise it leaves me to think that they couldn't make up their mind and want to leave it to you instead. So basically, the ending needs a little time to sink in and get your head around, but considering the mysteries in the book and discovering the world of Erith, it's definitely worth it. ...more In quest'ultimo volume della Trilogia di Bitterbynde Cecilia Dart-Thornton conferma i pregi e i difetti che erano emersi nei due libri precedenti. La scrittura \u00e8 sempre splendida, ricca di immagini ed evocativa; per contro, a volte la vicenda pecca di prolissit\u00e0 eccessiva. Durante la lettura dei romanzi sono stata, e sono tuttora, dell'opinione che qualche taglio qua e l\u00e0 non avrebbe che giovato all'opera. Ancora una volta l'inizio \u00e8 lento, gli eventi ci mettono del tempo ad ingranare; e anche se In quest'ultimo volume della Trilogia di Bitterbynde Cecilia Dart-Thornton conferma i pregi e i difetti che erano emersi nei due libri precedenti. La scrittura \u00e8 sempre splendida, ricca di immagini ed evocativa; per contro, a volte la vicenda pecca di prolissit\u00e0 eccessiva. Durante la lettura dei romanzi sono stata, e sono tuttora, dell'opinione che qualche taglio qua e l\u00e0 non avrebbe che giovato all'opera. Ancora una volta l'inizio \u00e8 lento, gli eventi ci mettono del tempo ad ingranare; e anche se La signora di Erith non raggiunge, complessivamente, il livello di La ragazza della torre , probabilmente in alcune parti lo supera ampiamente. Per quanto riguarda il finale, mi sento di fare una menzione positiva: me ne avevano parlato male, giudicandolo sbrigativo e poco chiaro, ma io l'ho trovato gestito sapientemente... in modo non convenzionale. Molto interessante il personaggio di Morragan, il Principe Corvo; pi\u00f9 scontato quello di Angavar, Re del Reame Fatato. Nel complesso, dunque, una buona trilogia, soprattutto per chi ama il folklore celtico. Purtroppo per\u00f2 devo fare una nota pi\u00f9 tecnica: \u00e8 a dir poco pessima, ahim\u00e8, la cartina presente nei libri! ...more La Dart-Thornton non si smentisce. Continua la saga di Imrhien/Rohain/Taquil/Ashalind e nonostante si sia al terzo volume riesce a mantenere le aspettative dei precedenti libri. La storia non scade in banalit\u00e0, non risulta appensantita rispetto ci\u00f2 che l'ha preceduta. Continua ad appassionare, a far battere il cuore per un personaggio che non si pu\u00f2 fare a meno di sentire vicino. ------------ (view spoiler) [-------------- Ma... Ma c'\u00e8 un ma. La fine - se possiamo definirla cos\u00ec! - risulta decisamente tr La Dart-Thornton non si smentisce. Continua la saga di Imrhien/Rohain/Taquil/Ashalind e nonostante si sia al terzo volume riesce a mantenere le aspettative dei precedenti libri. La storia non scade in banalit\u00e0, non risulta appensantita rispetto ci\u00f2 che l'ha preceduta. Continua ad appassionare, a far battere il cuore per un personaggio che non si pu\u00f2 fare a meno di sentire vicino. ------------ (view spoiler) [-------------- Ma... Ma c'\u00e8 un ma. La fine - se possiamo definirla cos\u00ec! - risulta decisamente troppo poco definita, nebulosa potremmo dire. La Dart-Thornton si \u00e8 comportata bene fino alle ultime 25 pagine, descrivendo con minuzia di particolari, senza mai annoiare. Ma poi non si capisce bene perch\u00e8 ha concluso le vicissitudini di Ashalind e Thorn in due righe appena abbozzate. Decisamente rimane un certo senso di delusione. Un senso di aspettativa tradito. ------------ (hide spoiler) ] -------------- Nonostante questo rimane una delle saghe che ho maggiormente amato fino ad ora. ...more<---C>Cecilia Dart-Thornton</---C>", "Title": "The Battle of Evernight"},
