{"Comments": "If I'm being honest then this did not live up to my expectations. I expected something more than some random action. While this,<---M> like its predecessors</---M>, was highly entertaining it lacked the thrill the others gave me. By the time I had finished the book I was feeling as if the plot had become extremely thin on the last few pages.<---F> The ending was nowhere near satisfying</---F>.. Now, as for the characters, in this one my disappointment in Rachel skyrocketed.. I hate how she can't control her sexual attract If I'm being honest then this did not live up to my expectations. I expected something more than some random action. While this, like its predecessors, was highly entertaining it lacked the thrill the others gave me. By the time I had finished the book I was feeling as if the plot had become extremely thin on the last few pages. The ending was nowhere near satisfying.. Now, as for the characters, in this one my disappointment in Rachel skyrocketed.. I hate how she can't control her sexual attraction, and yes, sometimes it's good to keep that thing in check instead of sleeping with whomever makes her blood run high because for her, that means T-R-O-U-B-L-E. This book also has a returning character. Won't mention his name, but I'm sure you know who I'm talking about. I also didn't like how judgmental Rachel was of him.. She's done some pretty bad things for the sake of her friends, she's taken lots of smut and she keeps on getting more and more tangled up in her mess. Meanwhile, she just won't let the guy forget what he's done, and I'll admit he's not a saint, but has she ever stopped to think about what made HIM do the things he does? Nope. The only part in this book that made me feel some thrill was something that has to do with an important loss in Jenks life. I won't delve into that one because the wound is fresh for me and Jenks both.. I just hope that the next novel in the series works out some of the malfunctions this one had for me.. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 4.5 stars So check this out. Rachel and Ivy are minding their own business, doing a bit of grocery shopping, when this blonde chick in a frumpy suit starts making eyes at Rachel. Or so she thinks . And Rachel\u2019s a little bit embarrassed, a little bit flattered, but not even a little bit interested . . . so that\u2019s AWK- ward . Except Frumpy isn\u2019t checking Rachel out! Frumpy is a member of the coven of moral and ethical standards, and she\u2019s trying to take Rachel into custody. Pfft. Li Reviewed by: Rabid Reads 4.5 stars So check this out. Rachel and Ivy are minding their own business, doing a bit of grocery shopping, when this blonde chick in a frumpy suit starts making eyes at Rachel. Or so she thinks . And Rachel\u2019s a little bit embarrassed, a little bit flattered, but not even a little bit interested . . . so that\u2019s AWK- ward . Except Frumpy isn\u2019t checking Rachel out! Frumpy is a member of the coven of moral and ethical standards, and she\u2019s trying to take Rachel into custody. Pfft. Like that\u2019s going to happen. But the attempt does make quite a mess (<---B>one word\u2014PRODUCE</---B>). And wait a minute, what\u2019s going on? Yeah, Rachel\u2019s been shunned, but there\u2019s a world of difference between shunning a witch and actively pursuing her. I smell a rat . . . (<\u2014\u2014did you see what I did there? *snickers*) A couple of books ago, Rachel very sneakily stole Al\u2019s summoning name so he couldn\u2019t be called out of the Ever After and let loose on her or her loved ones. They\u2019ve since resolved their issues . . . *snorts* mostly . . . but Rachel still has his name. And that is how we find out not only can Rachel\u2019s blood kindle demon magic, but she can also be summoned like a demon, and my, doesn\u2019t that complicate things. Especially when the previously thwarted coven of moral and ethical standards becomes privy to this information, using it to, yes, summon Rachel. Which puts her in a bit of a JAM. (<\u2014\u2014I did it AGAIN). B/c strawberries . . . in the grocery store . . . never mind. *sighs* It also makes her angry. It makes me angry too, b/c guess who summoned Rachel for the straight-laced coven (whose members would rather DIE than have a bit of smut on their auras)? Go on . . . guess . . . I\u2019ll give you hint\u2014his name has four letters, and is also slang for stealing, which is ironic, b/c that\u2019s what he does. YEP. Nick just can\u2019t stay gone. Which is unfortunate, b/c I HATE HIM. *takes a calming breath* <+++>Black Magic Sanction</+++> is my favorite book in the series up to this point. Al and Rachel grow in their new roles as teacher and student, and Rachel finally shows some caution on the romance front. Trent is consistently NOT evil, and even shows that he values Rachel as a person. (<\u2014\u2014YES!!) And Rachel finally starts to accept what she is, understanding that it\u2019s who she is that matters. LOVE it. Love it ALL. My other reviews for this series: Dead Witch Walking (The Hollows #1) The Good, the Bad, and the Undead (The Hollows #2) Every Which Way But Dead (The Hollows #3) A Fistful of Charms (The Hollows #4) For a Few Demons More (The Hollows #5) The Outlaw Demon Wails (The Hollows #6) White Witch, Black Curse (The Hollows #7) Pale Demon (The Hollows #9) The Undead Pool (The Hollows #12) Into the Woods: Tales from the Hollows and Beyond ...more That was annoying You know the relationship you are in is in trouble when you start to be annoyed by your partner... a lot. They probably aren't doing anything different than they were doing a month ago, but one morning you wake up and think to yourself, \"Man, the way she baby-talks to the dog is annoying\" or \"Oh my God, if he clips his toenails in the living room one more time I'm going to scream.\" I'm not saying your relationship is doomed, but you are now past being blinded by how great you fe That was annoying You know the relationship you are in is in trouble when you start to be annoyed by your partner... a lot. They probably aren't doing anything different than they were doing a month ago, but one morning you wake up and think to yourself, \"Man, the way she baby-talks to the dog is annoying\" or \"Oh my God, if he clips his toenails in the living room one more time I'm going to scream.\" I'm not saying your relationship is doomed, but you are now past being blinded by how great you feel when they smile at you, and you'd better hope there was more there than initial chemistry or it's over. I woke up this morning and realized <---C>Rachel Morgan</---C> and <---A>Kim Harrison</---A> have begun to really annoy me. Now, to be fair, I came to <+++>Black Magic Sanction</+++> pre-annoyed at having to wait an additional month for the Kindle edition. Yes, I realize that Ms Harrison had no control over that, but I was never-the-less annoyed. I also understand that this is the eighth book in the Hollows series, and that any review of something this far along is more to vent than anything else. My secret fantasy is that Ms Harrison reads all of these reviews and takes them to heart. Bottom line. If White Witch, Black Curse already had you questioning Ms Harrison's abilities, then I would borrow her latest from a friend or the library. If you've been enjoying the series up until now, then a bunch of negative reviews aren't going to mean a whole lot. They wouldn't have stopped me from getting it. Until now, I've been a big fan. Black Magic Sanction is strike 1. I've not gone back to re-read earlier Hollows books to see if the bloom is off the rose or if this is really the first failure in the lot. I really hope it's the latter. And now, a rant-ish list of spoiler-filled grievances... **** MASSIVE SPOILER ALERT **** I am annoyed that the rationale Rachel uses to not be with Ivy is \"I don't swing that way, Pierce\" when the far less homophobic, and compelling explanation is that to consummate the relationship with Ivy would mean to be essentially become enslaved to Ivy -- especially when (if) she turns. If the goal is to make Rachel a homophobe, fine, but just do it already. All Rachel's mewling and whining about wishing she could be the friend she wanted to be got old a while ago. I am annoyed that Nick is still alive. Not because I find his character loathsome -- in that regard Harrison does a great job -- but because Ivy, Trent, and/or Al should all have killed him by now. We know that Rachel won't because we learn in this book that she is so adverse to taking a life that murderers go free, loved ones go unavenged, and she probably loses sleep at night for all the micro-organisms she kills from respiration. I am annoyed that Nick is apparently a Master Thief, capable of figuring out Trent's vault: \"I've been trying to get into my father's vault since he died... I didn't even know I could do it until Nick suggest you could.\", arranging an insanely elaborate play of Trent versus Rachel, and when found out and captured by Trent, escaping as a trivial matter: \"Nick is gone... he slipped my guards yesterday.\" He slipped my guards?! Really? How... eff'n lame. Why don't you check his mommy's basement. That's apparently where Master Thieves live when they're not stealing priceless magical artifacts, cracking impenetrable vaults or running elaborate cons. I am annoyed that Pierce, who is essentially hundreds of years old with more tragic experiences than someone twice even that age, is apparently hopelessly in love with Rachel. Let me explain something to you, Ms Harrison, because you make the same mistake every other female author I have read makes when hooking up really old (steamy vampire, reincarnated spirit, angel, etc) men with twenty-something, kick-ass heroines. Take it from a man in his 40s, after Pierce (or Bill, or Dante, or Dracula...) is finished enjoying being with a way younger woman, he will grow annoyed to the point of aneurism with her because what he has in common with the person in his bed is ABSOLUTELY NOTHING. In fact, the whole dynamic of you-aren't-even-10%-my-age is at best a creepy \"I'm super-experienced and you're not\" power play, and at worst, smacks of pedophilia. I am annoyed that Ms Harrison's solution for how to get the Coven off of Rachel's un-shunned back is to have Trent and the Coven essentially go on record with a hastily concocted lie so preposterous that no one in their right mind would believe it. Never mind that just a few pages prior to the unveiling of Rachel's ridiculous plan, we learn that lie-detection rings are standard issue among reporters so the public statements Rachel needs to have made by Trent and the Coven will be known to be false. I am still annoyed (prior book carryover) that Jenks is alive. Don't get me wrong, I love the Jenks character. It was with almost dread that I approached his (seemingly) inevitable demise, but at the same time I was wholly impressed by Ms Harrison's choice to make a pixy's life span so short and was really looking forward to how she would handle so traumatic an event in the dynamic of her characters. Oh, never mind. Silly plot contrivance and Jenks gets to live... apparently indefinitely... given how trivial the secret to pixy longevity is. And on the subject of pixy death, I am annoyed... scratch that... enraged at the handling of the death of Jenks' wife, Matalina. As someone who found themselves a widower at 39, trust me when I say that a few heartfelt platitudes do not transform someone from suicidally-grief-stricken to I-miss-her-a-bunch-but-I'm-wholly-functional. I especially loved Rachel's whole, \"I know what you're going through because my dad died when I was 10 and my boyfriend of... what was it?... a few months also died.\" But it was when Rachel said \"Jenks, it's my fault that Matalina is dead. I'm the reason they attacked.\" instead of \"Jenks, it's my fault that Matalina is dead because I was unwilling to kill the assassins that your family was defending me from\" that I actually started to despise Rachel. I think, Ms Harrison, that either you or your editor need to have your world shattered by loss before attempting another such subplot. As it is, I found your handling of Jenks and Matalina sophomoric and offensive. I am annoyed with Rachel's seeming inability to learn from repeatedly making the same mistakes. I am annoyed with trying to understand why Rachel's cadre see her as some sort of leader when she is portrayed as an immature, serial screw-up. I am annoyed the most interesting characters (Al, Trent, Jenks, Ivy and Ceri) are not the leads. Instead, we get Rachel, I never stop whining, Morgan and Gordian, I'm a one-note control-freak, Pierce. And finally, out of the myriad other plot failings of Black Magic Sanction I've not mentioned, I am annoyed lawyering is apparently more binding that magic. \"If you own me in the ever-after, I'm going to own you here, \" says Trent who then produces not some arcane blood-drawn contract on human flesh, but rather some legalese that he wants Rachel to sign. Or how about the Coven? \"Never mess with a witch. Never. They fight with magic and red tape.\" Hey Rachel. We want to abduct you, give you a lobotomy, and then use you as a vegetative baby maker... please sign this release. And let's not forget that the primary tension device in the climatic end-scene is whether or not David will show up on time with... a magic sword? a pack of werewolves? the power of love? Nope, a bunch of legal papers. I assume Matlock will be showing up as some sort of guardian wraith in the next book. Please, Ms Harrison, find an editor who has both the intellect and the stones to tell you when what you are writing is stupid. ...more So there I was, innocently going about my day while listening to this book, and it\u2019s all demon plot shenanigans and hilariously unintentionally awful pixie funeral poetry, and then bam , we get a casual aside about how female witches have extra vaginal muscles compared to human women, and there I am sitting on the curb in the middle of the block, laughing helplessly with my guide dog hovering over me doing \u201c now what?\u201d in Labrador (it\u2019s all in the ears). Extra vaginal muscles! The better the orgasm So there I was, innocently going about my day while listening to this book, and it\u2019s all demon plot shenanigans and hilariously unintentionally awful pixie funeral poetry, and then bam , we get a casual aside about how female witches have extra vaginal muscles compared to human women, and there I am sitting on the curb in the middle of the block, laughing helplessly with my guide dog hovering over me doing \u201c now what?\u201d in Labrador (it\u2019s all in the ears). Extra vaginal muscles! The better the orgasm, the longer they clamp down and keep the participating penis in place! Ahahahahaha, oh God. \u2026Does anyone actually remember when this series was something I laughed with , not at? No? Yeah, me either. ...more I think I'm done with Kim Harrison now. Her last book didn't really float my boat, and this one was more of the same. Rachel feels misunderstood, tired, hungry, cranky, angry, and roughed up, due to yet another horrible bad thing that makes her worry about her friends, feel that she's not ready for a relationship, and take everything on by herself so no one she cares about gets hurt. In the first 150 pages she's attacked three times by the same baddie, summoned and sent to prison and escapes, dri I think I'm done with Kim Harrison now. Her last book didn't really float my boat, and this one was more of the same. Rachel feels misunderstood, tired, hungry, cranky, angry, and roughed up, due to yet another horrible bad thing that makes her worry about her friends, feel that she's not ready for a relationship, and take everything on by herself so no one she cares about gets hurt. In the first 150 pages she's attacked three times by the same baddie, summoned and sent to prison and escapes, drinks lots of coffee, and never gets 8 hours of sleep due to all the madness. It makes me tired- too much Perils of Pauline. Pacing is one thing, but all the action is becoming a substitute for character and plot development. Rachel's angst and self-doubt are starting to get tired. The character she was in the first books would be appalled at the actions she's taking now. She needs to lose the pseudo-morality and just get the job done. I'm tired of her judging other characters for using black magic while she's making deals with demons. I didn't actually finish the book- I got tired of the round-and-round. Not sure I'll crack the next one. ...more Why can't I choose more than 5 stars? Seriously. This was my favorite book of the series, thus far. Or maybe it just seems like my favorite because of my sincere disappointment in WWBC. The first 100 pages were a friggin whirlwind of action, and it doesn't ever slow down. There were great highs and serious lows in this book, and it made for an all around fantastic journey. I couldn't have asked for better Al scenes, and I am LOVING the relationship between he and Rachel. Al is a sneaky, devious Why can't I choose more than 5 stars? Seriously. This was my favorite book of the series, thus far. Or maybe it just seems like my favorite because of my sincere disappointment in WWBC. The first 100 pages were a friggin whirlwind of action, and it doesn't ever slow down. There were great highs and serious lows in this book, and it made for an all around fantastic journey. I couldn't have asked for better Al scenes, and I am LOVING the relationship between he and Rachel. Al is a sneaky, devious demon though, and I think he is cooling his heels until the right opportunity comes for him to claim Rachel completely. Jenks had some great lines, as always. I must say that I didn't mind too much that Ivy wasn't as present in the book. I like Ivy, and think her relationship with Rachel is important, as is her involvement in Vampiric Charms, but I've been eh lately about her. I do look forward to the budding romance she has going with a certain character though. I was glad to see Rachel try and move past Kisten in this book. His memory still haunts her (and me!) and she deserves to be happy. I really enjoy Rachel/Pierce. Hope it continues to become something significant. I really like Pierce, and I do find him sincere in his use of black magic. I hope I'm right about him! I am also VERY intrigued by the Rachel/Trent interaction at the end of the book. I could go on... ...more 5 *absolutely amazing* stars! I loved this one. Rachel finally is accepting what she is and what she can do. She's not getting anymore sh*t from anyone. YOU go girl! Give them hell! And I love, LOVE Pierce, but I have a feeling that he's not gonna stick around and it will be not by his choice... :( Anyway, the book was a masterpiece! RTC! I enjoyed this book much more than the previous installment, however I think I would have been happier had Harrison stretched plot out over two books instead of dragging it out in book 7 (which I can hardly remember anything important happening) and then cramming a million and one things into this book. On one hand it is fast paced which I like, but on another it's a big mess. I am with the lot that does NOT like Pierce. I had Gary Stu vibes at the beginning which raised flags but it only got wor I enjoyed this book much more than the previous installment, however I think I would have been happier had Harrison stretched plot out over two books instead of dragging it out in book 7 (which I can hardly remember anything important happening) and then cramming a million and one things into this book. On one hand it is fast paced which I like, but on another it's a big mess. I am with the lot that does NOT like Pierce. I had Gary Stu vibes at the beginning which raised flags but it only got worse and worse as the book progressed as he got more and more clingy and now I can stand him less and less. He is officially the least tolerable boyfriend. He has to be at Rachel's side every second and it's nauseating. He has a lot of knowledge, but just leave it at that. Maybe I could stand her other boyfriends better because they weren't on every freakin' page. Kisten I loved to vampy bits though, rest is double dead soul. It is a sad day when I can say I preferred Nick!! Why is it that Rachel's boyfriends (save for Kisten) have 0 chemistry with her? Kisten could make chemistry with a cardboard cut out, so he just might be an exception to anything. I really hope Harrison limits Pierce's presence significantly in the next books because after a while I found myself skimming and outright skipping pages that involved him...which was a lot. I was enjoying the book 20 times more when he wasn't there. I'm just not feeling the retcon of how he gets dibs so fast because he was \"there all along.\" Especially at the expense of Ivy looking cool. She was such an afterthought in this book and that was a real shame. -----SPOILER------ I don't know about anybody else, but I was EXTREMELY disappointed that Pierce was the one to go with Rachel in Jenks' time of need instead of Ivy. That was Ivy's place, not his and it angered me a lot. It's a very private time that should be shared with those CLOSEST to that person and Pierce does not fit the bill. I was really disgusted by that. -----SPOILER------ Of course, I am a huge Trent fan so I enjoyed seeing him a bit more in this book than the last. I hear book 9 should be a real treat for us, so I am looking forward to it! There were definitely some priceless scenes here. I was glad we got a glimpse into their past as well. They have their own bond that is complicated and hard to explain, but it's oh so important at the same time! Definitely liked what I saw here as a Trent fan and a Trent/Rachel fan. I do hope they explore a relationship at some point. (next book please please please please please) And of course, Al has completely stolen the show. I would have never thought around book 1 that I would ever want to see Rachel and Al together, but by golly I wouldn't mind it now!! I love Trent/Rachel and Al/Rachel. I still like Trent/Rachel a bit more (probably because I have liked them since book 1), but way to turn on the heat with Al!! I started to like him a bit more in WWBC (probably because there wasn't much else to like in that book), but here he really began to stand out. I couldn't help but enjoy him knocking Pierce around like a rag doll. So all in all, there were times I loved the book, and then times I hated it, so I will have to give it a 2.5 and round up to 3. One star for Trent and one star for Al. The plot being all over the place knocks it down half a star, and then Pierce knocks it down 2 more. Books 3 and 6 are still my favorites. Here's hoping book 9 can bring it back to that 5-star mark that I know, love and miss with this series! ...more I sometimes like to imagine my brain as a giant on/off lever and enjoy throwing the switch to \"off\" on occasion. Which is typically when I used to reach for paranormal fiction. But most of it is pure crap. Since Laurell K. Hamilton got hit with the icky porn stick and the Bon Temps are not roulez-ing much anymore in Charlaine Harris's Sookie series, pretty much all I've got left is Kim Harrison and Richelle Mead. I think I need to expand my universe. Look, I like Kim Harrison's Hollows series bu I sometimes like to imagine my brain as a giant on/off lever and enjoy throwing the switch to \"off\" on occasion. Which is typically when I used to reach for paranormal fiction. But most of it is pure crap. Since Laurell K. Hamilton got hit with the icky porn stick and the Bon Temps are not roulez-ing much anymore in Charlaine Harris's Sookie series, pretty much all I've got left is Kim Harrison and Richelle Mead. I think I need to expand my universe. Look, I like Kim Harrison's Hollows series but the magic (no pun intended) is fading for me. This book is the eighth in the series. For starters, it's almost 500 pages. Which isn't a problem if the story has places to go but here it just circles the drain for the first 200 pages and I couldn't push any farther. Rachel is in trouble again, this time with the governing body of witches who plan to either lobotomize her or steal her eggs to make little demon/witch babies (if you haven't followed the series up to this point, all this will sound like gibberish.) Rachel gets kidnapped. Rachel gets rescued. Rachel gets into an argument with Pierce, Jenks and/or Ivy. Her no good ex Nick shows up. More arguing. Rachel gets attacked again. More arguments. Trent Kalamack pops up. Fights, death threats, arguments. Rinse and repeat. And repeat. The pattern is more onerous because it's basically the same argument over and over: Rachel: I can take care of myself. Pierce: No you can't Rachel. I love you. I would die for you. Ivy: No, I will. Nick: No, me. Rachel: Kisten is the only man I'll ever love. Let's reconvene and have this argument again in 50 pages. Jenks: Something something Tink's panties. If there is one thing recreational fiction shouldn't be, it's a chore. And it belatedly occurred to me after I picked this up that I had to skim through some of the last book ( White Witch, Black Curse ) as well. I realize that it sounds like I'm doing a hatchet job on Kim Harrison and I don't intend to. I have a lot of affection for her and this series and by stopping here for the indefinite future, I can keep it that way. Maybe this series has fallen into that common past book #5 malaise. Maybe I've grown tired of it. Maybe--probably--both. ...more Well, I've been waiting for one of the Hollows books to bring a conclusion to the myriad stories being told. All of these secondary charaters...Nick, Trent, Peirce, Ivy, Jenks (and Madalena), the witch council, etc....there are so many people involved with what seems to be a conspiracy to bring down Rachel Morgan!! And for me, Jenks is still the only one on that list that I trust. I KNOW Ivy's a friend, by she's so volatile, and I still see her as being selfish and wishy washy. I do like Pierce. Well, I've been waiting for one of the Hollows books to bring a conclusion to the myriad stories being told. All of these secondary charaters...Nick, Trent, Peirce, Ivy, Jenks (and Madalena), the witch council, etc....there are so many people involved with what seems to be a conspiracy to bring down Rachel Morgan!! And for me, Jenks is still the only one on that list that I trust. I KNOW Ivy's a friend, by she's so volatile, and I still see her as being selfish and wishy washy. I do like Pierce. He's proven, and continues to prove, to Rachel that he's there to back Rachel up. Time after time, especially here, he is rock solid steady. Nick shows up, the biggest douche bag of all time. I've never really liked him, and that opinion has been validated time and again. He just continues to break Rachel's heart. Anywho, I was getting bored with the last few books...as bored as you can get reading this series. Even though every time you turn the page, Rachel is either fighting off demons or casting crazy spells, this series has started to blur together for me. Not so with this one! Al and Rachel take some pretty big steps in their relationship as student and teacher. I like how Al is an evil demon but he's not ALL evil. He proves it in this book. Both the evil and the not-so-evil. I like how he has stayed in the picture and seems to have a sort of affection for Rachel; albeit a selfish one. The end was GREAT! Really, the last two or three scenes were simply fantastic...wrapping up the story nicely, booting some mean ass people out of the series and setting up for the next few books nicely. I think the story has finally taken a turn and I'm really excited to get to it!! I 'read' the audiobook from Overdrive. The narrator was pretty good...she has now become my inner voice for Rachel! ...more Thank heavens for ARCs. After WWBC I was totally manic to read this one. I won't drop spoilers, although I can thank Kim Harrison for not leaving me drowning for book #9. I can actually take a deep, calming breath and mentally accept the year wait until the next book... even though it will still be an impatient 12 months. LOVE this series! I've always been a spoiler fan and speculator, though, so I have to say I hope the next book is the story that finishes what the short story \"Unbound\" started, Thank heavens for ARCs. After WWBC I was totally manic to read this one. I won't drop spoilers, although I can thank Kim Harrison for not leaving me drowning for book #9. I can actually take a deep, calming breath and mentally accept the year wait until the next book... even though it will still be an impatient 12 months. LOVE this series! I've always been a spoiler fan and speculator, though, so I have to say I hope the next book is the story that finishes what the short story \"Unbound\" started, with Daryl causing some SERIOUS fireworks on all levels and I can only pray in my little heart of hearts that #10 Skimmer gets out (alive or undead--but undead would be better) and goes on a rampage. Love Glenn, but I want him to die a hero saving someone. And I know there's a huge Trent/Rachel following out there, but I definitely want a Trent/Jasmin angle explored. Rachel and Trent are like siblings to me. I would gag and lose respect for everyone if they became an item. And that's all I have to say about that, although I welcome other speculators to throw their thoughts in :) ...more Now that I have finished the book, I am pleasantly surprised at where it ended. I wanted to give it 4.5 stars but opted for the 4 because the first third of the book was somewhat slow for me. I LOVED everything with Al and Trent in this book. Al is one of the best characters I have read in a while, and Trent has been my number one pick for Rachel since almost the beginning. All my excitement and enjoyment came from these three and the ways they play off each other. It is so fascinating! Then of co Now that I have finished the book, I am pleasantly surprised at where it ended. I wanted to give it 4.5 stars but opted for the 4 because the first third of the book was somewhat slow for me. I LOVED everything with Al and Trent in this book. Al is one of the best characters I have read in a while, and Trent has been my number one pick for Rachel since almost the beginning. All my excitement and enjoyment came from these three and the ways they play off each other. It is so fascinating! Then of course, I was bawling my eyes out for a good 10 pages or so, and I have not cried in a book in a long time. Therefore, overall I think we have headed back in a great direction and cannot wait to see what Rachel does going to do to break her familiar bond over Trent! ...more 4.5/5 Mon avis en Fran\u00e7ais My English review I was eager to start this novel after finishing the previous one. I must say that we are easily taken away by the story and now that the series is over, I\u2019m happy to buy the volumes the one after the other and thus to continue the adventures of Rachel Morgan. Our heroine is going to have plenty to do in this novel! Oh yes, because it does not stop! Rachel has to manage her shunning but now the convent wants more! Between those who want to kill her, to loc 4.5/5 Mon avis en Fran\u00e7ais My English review I was eager to start this novel after finishing the previous one. I must say that we are easily taken away by the story and now that the series is over, I\u2019m happy to buy the volumes the one after the other and thus to continue the adventures of Rachel Morgan. Our heroine is going to have plenty to do in this novel! Oh yes, because it does not stop! Rachel has to manage her shunning but now the convent wants more! Between those who want to kill her, to lock her in Alcatraz, to prevent her from having children or just to get her future children into a new generation, our witch will have to find a solution. Because of course, you can imagine that none of the choices is acceptable! But this fight is very difficult because she will have to join forces with her friends and her enemies but some have ulterior motives. Did I say that we find Lee again? And Nick? I confess I did not expect at all to see them. Moreover, it is very difficult to know if we can trust them or not. But I admit that the character who surprised me the most throughout the story was Nick. Wow, what a manipulator! And that in every sense of the term but the author has managed to fool us well throughout the story, making us change our minds about him constantly. I\u2019ll let you find out what he is really in the end. Fortunately for Rachel, everyone is there for her, whether Pierce, Ivy, Jenks and many others. Our confidence about Pierce was also put to the test. Oh yes, because it is very difficult to understand exactly what he wants from our heroine and how it all will end. But like her, we want to trust him, to see what would happen, despite the fact that he is what he is. We can also see Trent in the novel, although I admit that we got the urge to strangle given the choice he offers Rachel. It is also difficult to statute on him but the end of the story gives us hope and I\u2019m really looking forward to reading the next book to see what happens. Everything evolves very quickly throughout the history and we learn a little more about the past of the woman and what she is capable of. It was nice to see that here she finally agrees that she is much more, she accepts the fact that she is different and plays with it for her life and the others. But whatever happens, she will not change to please others. I was also surprised to see that she manages to work with Al, which I must say is pretty funny in some moments with Rachel. But that\u2019s not all because Kim Harrison takes us through all the states in this book and I admit that I was very sad about the death of one of the characters. I did not expect it and it\u2019s true that it\u2019s been heartbreaking. In all cases many things happen in this novel and I am very eager to read more. I can only recommend you to start this series if you have not already, it\u2019s a great surprise! ...more I didn\u2019t enjoy this installment. In this book, Rachel was very irritating in my opinion. I understand her sensitivity to being shunned as a \u201cblack witch\u201d but screaming every 5 seconds \u201cI\u2019M NOT A BLACK WITCH\u201d was tiresome. Being consumed with proving her goodness, she made decisions that weren\u2019t in her best interest. I understand having morals, but if someone is trying to kill you, you try to kill them\u2026with whatever you have available. If someone broke into my property, and threatened my life, I\u2019m I didn\u2019t enjoy this installment. In this book, Rachel was very irritating in my opinion. I understand her sensitivity to being shunned as a \u201cblack witch\u201d but screaming every 5 seconds \u201cI\u2019M NOT A BLACK WITCH\u201d was tiresome. Being consumed with proving her goodness, she made decisions that weren\u2019t in her best interest. I understand having morals, but if someone is trying to kill you, you try to kill them\u2026with whatever you have available. If someone broke into my property, and threatened my life, I\u2019m not going to think twice about the method(s) I use. Later, I might feel remorse, but during? I don\u2019t think so. Rachel preventing the deaths of the faeries was not realistic. Rachel\u2019s panic attack when she and Pierce were hiding under ground? Beyond irritating. Are you the heroine or not? Get your stuff together and calm yourself. Good grief. I\u2019m not buying Rachel\u2019s attraction to Pierce. It feels forced. Listened to the audio. Another book that I started checking to see how much time was left (in this case how many hours were left). With 2 hours left, I was really ready for the book to end. To be fair, my review probably wouldn\u2019t have been as harsh if I had read the book\u2026but there is no escaping the irritating behavior/dialogue in the audio version. ...more I really liked this book a lot. I thoroughly enjoyed the plot. I appreciated Rachel's character development. I was glad to see some major questions answered (Jenk's life span, Matalinda's illness, etc). I even enjoyed the return of Rachel's no good ex, Nick. I think the writing was crisper, smarter, and really awesome this go around. Kim seems to be only getting better as an author and I really enjoy her work. I liked nearly everything about this book plotwise, except for Pierce. I don't understa I really liked this book a lot. I thoroughly enjoyed the plot. I appreciated Rachel's character development. I was glad to see some major questions answered (Jenk's life span, Matalinda's illness, etc). I even enjoyed the return of Rachel's no good ex, Nick. I think the writing was crisper, smarter, and really awesome this go around. Kim seems to be only getting better as an author and I really enjoy her work. I liked nearly everything about this book plotwise, except for Pierce. I don't understand why Pierce is even around. It makes zero sense. I can't stand him. That character feels like his sole purpose is to muck up Ivy and Rachel's blossoming romance. He's annoying, a jerk, and I want him deadeadeadead. He doesn't even feel like he fit in the world Rachel, Ivy and Jenks inhabit. And what is worse is that Ivy gets shunted off to the side for most of the story so Pierce can take her place. UGH! I want my Ivy/Rachel dynamic back! I hated that Rachel admitted to herself that she feels more than sisterly toward Ivy, but thinks it doesn't count because she won't act on it. *headdesk* If not for Pierce, I would have given this book five stars, but I just can't stand him as a plot device. ...more This one was CRAZY GOOD. But I cried like a baby at the big scene. You know which one I'm talking about. That was worse than the end of book five!!! *Re-read July 2015 **First read 2010 Phew, I feel like I just read three books, not one! Probably the most complex book in the series so far, and one of the best. Super action packed, emotional, character driven, suspenseful, emotional, funny when necessary, a major part in the overall story arc. Sooo much happened, it was almost overwhelming. The coven; Matalina (*sobs* whyyy?); Al (my favorite part - there wasn't one scene where he was involved and trouble and laughing out loud situations didn't *Re-read July 2015 **First read 2010 Phew, I feel like I just read three books, not one! Probably the most complex book in the series so far, and one of the best. Super action packed, emotional, character driven, suspenseful, emotional, funny when necessary, a major part in the overall story arc. Sooo much happened, it was almost overwhelming. The coven; Matalina (*sobs* whyyy?); Al (my favorite part - there wasn't one scene where he was involved and trouble and laughing out loud situations didn't follow. He's the bestest! \u2665), the Trent headquarters shenanigans (LMFAO what I wouldn't have given to be a fly on the wall and see his face, the whole thing was priceless; I'm still grinning just thinking about it); Pierce (ughhhh, grow up already, Rachel!), the Fountain Square scene (*giggles*), Trent, the horse race... \u2665 To sum it up: Pierce and Nic-k in the same book. Bleah, my least favorite part of the book. I'm so over both of them! But we all know how smart *sarcasm* Rachel is when it comes to her men, so we'll move on, necessary evil and all that. Though I kind of felt bad for Pierce, he was trying; I just couldn't feel any connection with him. Something was missing. :( Despite all that, we can see a lot of character growth and development, which was a big plus. Trent and Al were awesome! We can see things moving a certain way, and I can't wait to read the next books! ___________________ Trent still smiled, but the faint worry pinching his eyes tickled the back of my brain. Trent wasn't especially tall, but his bearing made people take notice, as if his baby-fine, nearly white hair, devilishly confident smile, and drool-worthy, athletic physique gained from riding his prize-winning horses wouldn't. All that I could ignore\u2014mostly\u2014but his voice... his beautiful voice, rich in variance and resonant... That was harder\u2014and I hated that I loved it. *** \"No, you just keep crashing my life. Look\u2014\" I said, and Al grunted. \"Here it comes,\" the demon muttered. \"Listen. Listen to this, runt. She's going to have a list.\" *** [Pierce's] eyes were inches from mine. \"You trust on the surface, but no deeper. You don't know how. For a clever woman, you took the short end of the stick when it comes to men.\" He pulled me closer, and I shifted to lay beside him, his arms twined around me. \"I cannot stay,\" he lied for me, eyes averted. \"I'm only going to be here for a time, then leave you.\" His gaze met mine. \"And I will cry when I go, because I could love you forever.\" ...more Esta parte puede resumirse en una frase dicha en la novela por cierto personaje : \"You're both idiots (...) Two people so intent on getting the best of each other that you can be manipulated into anything.\" Sep. Mucho de lo que pasa en la trama no vale la pena leer. Que decepci\u00f3n. Esos dos a los que se hace referencia arriba y las idas y vueltas interminables cuando todo podr\u00eda resolverse con una charla y listo. Y (view spoiler) [Rachel estuvo insoportable toda la novela! Se la pasa equivoc\u00e1ndose c Esta parte puede resumirse en una frase dicha en la novela por cierto personaje : \"You're both idiots (...) Two people so intent on getting the best of each other that you can be manipulated into anything.\" Sep. Mucho de lo que pasa en la trama no vale la pena leer. Que decepci\u00f3n. Esos dos a los que se hace referencia arriba y las idas y vueltas interminables cuando todo podr\u00eda resolverse con una charla y listo. Y (view spoiler) [Rachel estuvo insoportable toda la novela! Se la pasa equivoc\u00e1ndose constantemente y tenemos que creer que todas sus acciones son parte de alguna sabidur\u00eda especial .... ? Que p\u00e9rdida de tiempo. (hide spoiler) ] Espero que el pr\u00f3ximo sea mejor. Y haya menos (view spoiler) [ Pierce, Nick y yada yada, y mucho m\u00e1s IVY, Trent y David de lo que hubo en \u00e9ste! (hide spoiler) ] Le hab\u00eda puesto un dos en la primera rese\u00f1a, pero lo dejo mejor en 2.5 porque el \u00faltimo cap\u00edtulo fue lo m\u00e1s sensato que ha pasado en toda la historia. A\u00fan as\u00ed, todo el tiempo malgastado en (view spoiler) [Rachel y Pierce fue, en mi opini\u00f3n, totalmente est\u00fapido, clich\u00e9 e innecesario (hide spoiler) ] . Y ni hablar de la (view spoiler) [muerte de Matalina y como se lo manje\u00f3!!! Estoy furiosa (hide spoiler) ] ...more Very enjoyable, but the ending seemed a bit too easy and poor. The danger one faces with reading a series is that, after a time, they can get monotonous. If you\u2019re a true fan, you know the details, eccentricities and jokes intimately and after several books, if poorly executed, they become tiresome. However, when said series is in the hands of a master, then that \u201cold hat\u201d expectation never happens. For me, this is true of Kim Harrison\u2019s Hollows series. After nine books, (the tenth, A Perfect Blood released this month), the series has yet to grow stale. Per The danger one faces with reading a series is that, after a time, they can get monotonous. If you\u2019re a true fan, you know the details, eccentricities and jokes intimately and after several books, if poorly executed, they become tiresome. However, when said series is in the hands of a master, then that \u201cold hat\u201d expectation never happens. For me, this is true of Kim Harrison\u2019s Hollows series. After nine books, (the tenth, A Perfect Blood released this month), the series has yet to grow stale. Perhaps it\u2019s because I\u2019ve become invested in the characters, in the lush, intricate world that Harrison creates. Perhaps, it\u2019s because I\u2019m far too curious to find out what fate has in store for Rachel Morgan. In any case, reading a new Hollows novel, is like sitting down for a very long visit with an old friend. There is comfort, humor and familiarity in these characters; there is potential in what we hope will happen, what we hope will be avoided. Black Magic Sanction is all about Rachel\u2019s future and who will control it. In previous novels in the series, Rachel discovered the truth about her heritage: that she is a white witch with demon ancestry and that any children she may have will certainly be demons. This information, coupled with her unwillingly agreement to be a demon familiar, earns her a shunning by the Coven Council . She is given a choice: sterilization or prison time in Alcatraz. But Rachel Morgan isn\u2019t a woman who likes to be controlled, though there are plenty who are eager for the opportunity: Trent Kalamack, the rich politician/hiding elf whose father is responsible for her demon blood; the Coven Council who are hell bent on punishing Rachel for being able to twist demon magic; Algaliarept, the demon who schemed his way into making Rachel his familiar and the long dead witch, Pierce, who takes an \u201cany means necessary\u201d approach to getting out of his obligations. The lesson that all the above refuse to learn is that control cannot be taken from ones unwilling to relinquish it and in Black Magic Sanction, it\u2019s a lesson that each learn the hard way. The novels follows Rachel into her past, opening long-slammed shut doors that have made her the witch she has become. This includes her first encounter with Pierce and the dangerous situations he led Rachel into as a teen and her history with Trent when they were children together: Tulpa\u2019s feet left the earth, and he stretched forward. One with him, we leaned as well, instinct older than magic taking hold. The beating of his hooves was silenced, and the thumping of my heart was all that there was. For an instant, we flew. Tulpa\u2019s front feet touched, and the world rushed back. The cadence of his hooves beat into me, and I shouted, letting go of Trent. It had been marvelous. Wonderful beyond belief. Exuberant, I smiled, feeling breathless and powerful all at the same time. Trent turned, wonder in his eyes, shock almost. \u201cYou held on.\u201d Previous and current interactions hint at things to come between Rachel and Trent and the love/hate relationship they share. For all the traitorous things they have done to one another, there is a mutual respect that is central and layered throughout the story. Rachel\u2019s other relationships, with her family, her friends, partners and her community are tested in this novel, but they are ultimately resolved, perhaps, especially because, Rachel is, above all else, a survivor. She is also a force of nature, a driven character that only wants to do her job, protect those she loves and live her life as normally as a part witch/part demon can. It is this character\u2019s unyielding insistence to never give up that, I think, appeals and addicts Harrison\u2019s readers. She has fashioned a world where the underdog, the relentless woman, can learn and grow and define the path she will take, regardless of the plans others have for her. Or, as Pierce tells Rachel: You\u2019re firm in will, pure in intent, strong in magic. But now it\u2019s tempered with wisdom, and you\u2019re more beautiful and brilliant yet\u2026you are shades of gray swirling, balancing needs and desires\u2026you are good, Rachel. No matter what your choices lead you to, you will remain such.\u201d Harrison is one of the best in the genre. She has written the paradigm of great UF and effortlessly sets the bar higher and higher with every Hollows novel she writes, defying others to match her. So far, no one has. ...more A common complaint with series in general is that the books start to go off course, become redundant, or just plain stupid as more books are released. The Hollows is the opposite. I honestly believe that the second half is even better than the first, and the world and characters just get more interesting with each new release. I officially dislike the witch counsel. We hadn\u2019t seen them before, only heard of them, but egads, what a despicable group. What they planned to do to Rachel sickens me. T A common complaint with series in general is that the books start to go off course, become redundant, or just plain stupid as more books are released. The Hollows is the opposite. I honestly believe that the second half is even better than the first, and the world and characters just get more interesting with each new release. I officially dislike the witch counsel. We hadn\u2019t seen them before, only heard of them, but egads, what a despicable group. What they planned to do to Rachel sickens me. There\u2019s a lot of disturbing stuff in this series, and out of everything, even the tortures and murder scenes, this is more disturbing to me on a personal level. Against your will, being lobotomized and stripped of mind, choice, and even freaking fertility! Leaving the person an imprisoned husk. Wow, what monsters. As another creative technique (Rachel never ceases to amaze me with how she can wiggle out of things), Rachel impresses me with her bargaining, in addition to a cool twist with Trent. Nick and his devious ways have returned, and a fun moment with Al/Rachel/Nick is written \u2013 cool. I also really liked the Lee scenes. Before his character didn\u2019t sit right with me but now he\u2019s more enjoyable. Rachel \u201chigh\u201d is just hilarious. Whether it was in the vamp club getting blood sugared, Jenks accidentally buying her street grade brimstone in \u2018A Pocketful of Charms\u2019, and now being sedated with darts, she\u2019s a hoot. Here, maybe best of all, she leans out the window singing \u201cI\u2019m king of the world,\u201d almost getting everyone killed, flirts with Lee and his \u2018scar\u2019, sits at Al\u2019s feet (the concern from him was thrilling), and compliments Ivy\u2019s eyes. I repeat: Rachel wasted is always fun. I was pleased to see Ceri at first (she\u2019s been missing too long), but her smugness started irritating me. Can anyone tell I really dislike smugness? It\u2019s one of my biggest pet peeves, whether in life or in invented characters. Al times shine, the demon warmed his evil self even further into my soul with his scenes. I\u2019m really digging the mentoring bond developing. I liked Ivy for the most part but she seriously chickens out when it came to using magic and going with Rachel to help Jenks. I actually liked Trent the last part of the book. This is of course after he pissed me off by getting amused when Rachel is scared of being chemically castrated and lobotomized. >:0 Sadly there\u2019s a character loss which leaves a devastating absence. There is one sex scene and, while I don\u2019t want a perma-relationship there, I found it hot because it was unique with the discovery with the ley line, and honest during a vulnerable moment. Pacing stays up to speed and a lot happens in this one. It was a delight to shift between reality and the Ever After. Both of the worlds fascinate. As always Kim writes her characters realistically, uses words which make them seep into my mind perfectly, and makes me want the book to never end while I rush through it with anticipation. If only these books could be endless? But in this life I guess nothing\u2019s perfect. ...more Another good adventure in the Hallows. Rachel is settling into her new life as a shunned witch and spending her time in the ever after with Al learning. She is at odds with herself as her blood won't kindle witch magic, but does do demon magic, so what is she... a witch or a demon? Plus she has started to enjoy her studies and what she is learning. Rachel has a lot to deal with in the council coming after her and the punishment is something straight out of the early 1900's and very extreme. As th Another good adventure in the Hallows. Rachel is settling into her new life as a shunned witch and spending her time in the ever after with Al learning. She is at odds with herself as her blood won't kindle witch magic, but does do demon magic, so what is she... a witch or a demon? Plus she has started to enjoy her studies and what she is learning. Rachel has a lot to deal with in the council coming after her and the punishment is something straight out of the early 1900's and very extreme. As things go from bad to worse Rachel finds herself as usual going from the frying pan to the fire. As again as usual she comes up with a wacky plan that needs just the right timing to work. Her plans often seem like something that a cartoon character would think of, and never go quite as planned, there are always a few snags that pop up. Nick is back, I just hate him, and every time he comes back it seems like he has cleaned up his act, but once a puke always a puke. This time around it is even worse as he keeps betraying Rachel over and over, even when she anticipates his betrayals he comes up with new and inventive ways. Ivy seems to have found some happiness in her life in a new boyfriend. One we know well, but is still surprising. I think this match up could be all sorts of fun. I loved how Rachel found out!! Jenks is facing big changes in his life that rock him to his core. He is a surprisingly strong in so many ways, so to see his foundation rocked is tough. Rachel finds a really sweet way to comfort Jenks and help him with a difficult decision. Biz is starting to become more of a player in Rachel's world, leaving all sorts of things open in the future for him. Even he is getting a teacher to help him help Rachel. Al, is Al, the guy you love to hate. Although with this book he is starting to be more likable. I think Rachel is starting to get to him by demanding the truth from him for no other reason that just because. He is finding that she really doesn't have any ulterior motives. Pierce is back with a vengeance and no one trusts him and he does little to rectify that this time around. Rachel is trying to fight her attraction to him, but everyone is betting against her. Ceri is back and with surprising news. She has taken it upon herself to do secretly help Rachel. We get flashbacks to Trent and Rachel's time at camp as kids, interesting especially knowing how their relationship is now. Rachel also gets surprising insight into how Trent really sees her. She also once again takes a chance to embarrass him in front of all of Cincy. While most things end up resolved there are still issues that Rachel has to settle, but her life for the moment is back to normal, or at least as normal as they can be in her life. ...more Another amazing book from one hell of a writer! Kim Harrison out did herself once again. Black Magic Sanction is the 8th installment in the amazing Hollower series. I've been a fan from book one and was hooked from page one. Each book just keeps getting better, and after Rachel's hard trials I'm glad to see her getting past her devastation.. Kisten will be deeply missed and I bet I'm not alone in saying that. Rachel's still not out of the hot water. Rachel wouldn't be Rachel if she wasn't in some Another amazing book from one hell of a writer! Kim Harrison out did herself once again. Black Magic Sanction is the 8th installment in the amazing Hollower series. I've been a fan from book one and was hooked from page one. Each book just keeps getting better, and after Rachel's hard trials I'm glad to see her getting past her devastation.. Kisten will be deeply missed and I bet I'm not alone in saying that. Rachel's still not out of the hot water. Rachel wouldn't be Rachel if she wasn't in some sort of trouble. And what a trouble she is in this time.. Rachel finds herself in a showdown with The Coven. The Coven are technically committed to practicing only white magic.. but that doesn't make them any less dangerous. Because of her relationships to demons, The Coven attempt to lock her away in the witch prison of Alcatraz, guarded by violent guards who feed the inmates food that is drugged. Black Magic Sanction expands on Rachel's relationship with the demon world. Al is a bigger character in this story (which I was so happy about) and we finally get a bigger glimpse of his world. Al is my favorite! I honesty love the demon. I know he has his many faults, but Al is someone I can't stop thinking about. In this novel you can see he truly cares for Rach, even if it's not in the typical caring way. We see more of his personality and what it is to be a demon. This story may have lots of action and suspense but it also have strong emotion. There were times where I laughed out tears and times where I truly cried my eyes out. We finally get to see the outcome of the pixies, of whom make the story what it is and what the past was like between Rachel and Trent. A funny thing about the series is that Kim Harrison names her Hollows books after Clint Eastwood movies. Which really makes me laugh..not that I'd ever laugh at Clint Eastwood..but the thought is funny.. hehe Another hilarious thing is Rachel, stoned. Well not \"stoned\", but drugged. She is a very funny person when she open and free. Ever Al truly enjoyed her while stoned. He he! If you have yet to read this series, I cannot stress the utter most importance in starting it! :P It truly is an amazing read. You will not be disappointed! ...more Yay! Harrison has brought her Hollow's series back on track and its filled to the brim with the good stuff that made the earlier books so great. Rachel, always a magnet for trouble is in deep kimshee here. The Coven for Ethics and Morality (the witch ruling body) wants to imprison, neuter and lobotomize Rachel all without a fair trial because Rachel represents the dirty little secret about the true origins of witches and she is also the key to the demon's return to the Earthly plane. Black Magic Yay! Harrison has brought her Hollow's series back on track and its filled to the brim with the good stuff that made the earlier books so great. Rachel, always a magnet for trouble is in deep kimshee here. The Coven for Ethics and Morality (the witch ruling body) wants to imprison, neuter and lobotomize Rachel all without a fair trial because Rachel represents the dirty little secret about the true origins of witches and she is also the key to the demon's return to the Earthly plane. Black Magic sanction is exactly what I was looking for in the last book (I could have lived without the Kisten rehash entirely). Finally we get to explore a bit of Rachel's apprenticeship to Al and the new dynamics that puts on their relationship. Also, thankfully we've finally (finally!) gotten past all of the blood-balance stuff with Ivy, I was finding that oh-so tiresome. That thread took way too long to resolve itself and actually made Ivy so one-dimensional a character that she wasn't all that interesting anymore, hopefully Harrison will be able to remedy that now that Ivy's moved on and has a new beau. The constant peril for Rachel as the coven keeps trying to kidnap her and to coerce her by threatening Rachel's home and family keep the book really moving along and results in some really sad and poignant moments for Rachel's family. I love the way that Rachel finally manages to solve her dilemma with the coven, and the way that she manages to accept her ability to do black magic doesn't make her an evil witch (and the way that the coven manages to achieve truly evil results while sticking purely to white magic.) There is some resolution for Rachel with some characters from the past: Nick, Rachel's lying ex (I always liked the devious little thief), Lee and Trent. The direction that Harrison is taking Bis is also fun. So bottom line is that Black Magic Sanction is actually worth the hardcover price and has restored my enthusiasm for the series, can't wait to see what's in store for Rachel next. ...more Whoah what a book! Harrison has certainly upped her game in this latest installment. Gone is the angst over whether Rachel should make a go of things with Ivy. Instead most of this book is about Rachel trying to dodge the Coven from putting her in Alcatraz, lobotmising her magically and removing her ability to bare children. It certainly ups the stakes in this very dramatic game of cat and mouse and at times I wasn't sure where the chips would fall. Put together with Trent trying to \"Own\" Rachel af Whoah what a book! Harrison has certainly upped her game in this latest installment. Gone is the angst over whether Rachel should make a go of things with Ivy. Instead most of this book is about Rachel trying to dodge the Coven from putting her in Alcatraz, lobotmising her magically and removing her ability to bare children. It certainly ups the stakes in this very dramatic game of cat and mouse and at times I wasn't sure where the chips would fall. Put together with Trent trying to \"Own\" Rachel after the events from the previous book and trying to dodge becoming Newts apprentice and Rachel has her hands full. ITs all good stuff and by the end of the book you are breathless from the ride, especially with the conclusion in the last two chapters. NOw readers of the series have been seeing one major tradegy coming towards us and this book is the one where everything comes to a head. Where it will leave the characters left behind, I'm not sure, but I was sad to see this charachter leave the series. It was heartfelt and an almost poignant departure for the character and will leave a void in the lives of all concerned. And now to the latest love intrest for Rachel. Pierce, the shunned witch who was buried alive by the Coven years ago, only to take over a dead witches body and become Al's familiar. I'm still not sure about him, but he seems to be an ideal match for Rachel. We learn alot more about him and the lengths he will go to protect Rachel, not just from herself but from others. My judgement is reserved, but he seems better than Marshal. Overall I loved this book and I can't wait for the fallout in the next book. The series seems to be picking up again and I'm glad that Harrison hasn't took the easy route with some of her storylines. ...more This book was pretty much fantabulous the whole way through. There was a good chunk about 3/4 of the way through it that got a bit slow, but it picked up at the end, and even though it seemed to end on a cliff-hanger, I won't down-vote it for that because it was soooo much better than the previous book. I love Al. There was a lot more explaining of what Rachel is and world-building. Nick is such a creep. I'd like to see more Trent, more Ceri, and I love all the parts with the demons. Wish Rachel This book was pretty much fantabulous the whole way through. There was a good chunk about 3/4 of the way through it that got a bit slow, but it picked up at the end, and even though it seemed to end on a cliff-hanger, I won't down-vote it for that because it was soooo much better than the previous book. I love Al. There was a lot more explaining of what Rachel is and world-building. Nick is such a creep. I'd like to see more Trent, more Ceri, and I love all the parts with the demons. Wish Rachel wasn't always trying to be such a \"good\" witch. She has had plenty of reason to use other parts of the magic in and of The Hollows and the ever-after. Sometimes she annoys me, but not so much in this one. Not a big fan of Pierce - or her other romantic partners (except for Kisten). I'd love to see Rachel with Al, at least for a little bit, but know that is not going to happen. Rachel is a little too annoyingly abstinent, not just from sex, but of even simple indulgences in life. I love the series overall, though. I was VERY happy with this one! ...more The 8th book in the Rachel Morgan series. From page one the action explodes off the page. Rachel is driving when summoned. She shows up in California to find that she's been summoned like a demon into a circle. Even more surprising, it's the Coven she's surrounded by. Rachel is on the run from the Coven throughout this whole book. Trying to get her shunning removed is now the least of her problems. She's facing being thrown in Alcatraz, being labotimized, and having her future children either ta The 8th book in the Rachel Morgan series. From page one the action explodes off the page. Rachel is driving when summoned. She shows up in California to find that she's been summoned like a demon into a circle. Even more surprising, it's the Coven she's surrounded by. Rachel is on the run from the Coven throughout this whole book. Trying to get her shunning removed is now the least of her problems. She's facing being thrown in Alcatraz, being labotimized, and having her future children either taken, or being made sterile. When she's torn from all of her safety nets, the only people she can turn to are her enemies. With only Trent Kalamak, the ex-scum Nick, and Pierce to help her, she's in more trouble then ever. This book is an edge-of-your-seat thrill ride. It pulled all the heart-strings, one minute I was mad, the next laughing, and the next crying. Even through all the crazy turmoil Rachel stays true to character and you'll root for her the whole way. Can't wait for the next exciting adventure. ...more One of my favorites so far, I believe, but also very emotional for me. (view spoiler) [I cried my hart out when Matalina died, mostly I believe because it was so recognizable for me, and of course beautifully written. My favorite parts however were her interactions with Al. That demon really has grown on me. Love him. Maybe not for Rachel, but I love to read everything about him. He's such a complicated character I think, and he challenges every black and white view Rachel has about the ever afte One of my favorites so far, I believe, but also very emotional for me. (view spoiler) [I cried my hart out when Matalina died, mostly I believe because it was so recognizable for me, and of course beautifully written. My favorite parts however were her interactions with Al. That demon really has grown on me. Love him. Maybe not for Rachel, but I love to read everything about him. He's such a complicated character I think, and he challenges every black and white view Rachel has about the ever after and demons. I'm happy to see her grow into her own shades of gray. Not sure how I feel about Pierce though. But maybe that's just because of Rachel's luke warm attitude towards him. And I still don't understand what everyone's attraction is with Trent. Ah we'll maybe I'll warm to him in the next book. (hide spoiler) ] Next on my list is the short story with Jenks and Bis (love that little adolescent, and my feelings for Jenks ought to be well known by now. ...more (re-reading series) Nick, Nick, Nick - he must die! I'm with Jinks - give him to Al please Rachel. So sad - I cried :( poor Jinks. The grocery store fight with the coven - hehehe I liked it way too many (strawberries). I like how Rachel and Al's relationship is growing (teacher - student) not love interest. I can't believe I'm going to say this but I really like Al now. Trent is ok too, I guess.", "Title": "Black Magic Sanction"},
