{"Comments": "I am not a Baldacci fan...<---F>never read another of his books</---F>. But this is not characteristic of his legal thrillers. This is a beautiful story about 2 children learning what is really important in life...and it's NOT money. I've heard that in many places this is becoming required reading at the junior high/high school, level and it should be. It would be most impactful for this age. I loved it and will remember it long after I forget many of the other books I have read. I wish everyone would read t I am not a Baldacci fan...never read another of his books. But this is not characteristic of his legal thrillers. This is a beautiful story about 2 children learning what is really important in life...and it's NOT money. I've heard that in many places this is becoming required reading at the junior high/high school, level and it should be. It would be most impactful for this age. I loved it and will remember it long after I forget many of the other books I have read. I wish everyone would read this book. It's on the level of \"To Kill a Mockingbird\". ...more Everything about this book is terrible. The writing is sloppy (once you've written 800+ books, do you get a free pass on editing?),<---M> the plot is predictable and contrived</---M>, the characters are flat, and the theme of belief in the face of despair is bludgeoned in with no finesse. Spoilers Ahead! (Kind of. This book is so predictable it'd be hard to spoil.) The whole storyline is weak, but the ending is almost fantastically ridiculous. The previously comatose mother wakes up saves the day in the court Everything about this book is terrible. The writing is sloppy (once you've written 800+ books, do you get a free pass on editing?), the plot is predictable and contrived, the characters are flat, and the theme of belief in the face of despair is bludgeoned in with no finesse. Spoilers Ahead! (Kind of. This book is so predictable it'd be hard to spoil.) The whole storyline is weak, but the ending is almost fantastically ridiculous. The previously comatose mother wakes up saves the day in the courtroom - a plot device pulled out of a made-for-TV movie. And I cringed at the \"afterward\" written by future Lou. She grows up to be a famous, wealthy writer, her brother grows up to win a World Series with the Yankees. Everyone's dreams come true. It's fairytale ending that even Cinderella would have trouble believing. If Baldacci had ever treated his characters/setting/subject matter with irony or even subtlety, I might have wondered if the afterward was playful meta-fiction, to be taken with a grain of salt. But, no, just straightforward drivel. Quite simply, there are better books out there. ...more I laughed and I cried (mostly cried)...I would not typically read this type of book, but this story of hope and triumph of the human spirit had me hooked to the very end. It was well written; the characters were deep and engaging and the setting well beautifully described. This is the story of Louisa May (Lou) Cardinal; a precocious 12 year old from New York. Her father is a famous (albeit underpaid) writer and she has a caring mother and a younger brother named Oz. When the whole family is in a I laughed and I cried (mostly cried)...I would not typically read this type of book, but this story of hope and triumph of the human spirit had me hooked to the very end. It was well written; the characters were deep and engaging and the setting well beautifully described. This is the story of Louisa May (Lou) Cardinal; a precocious 12 year old from New York. Her father is a famous (albeit underpaid) writer and she has a caring mother and a younger brother named Oz. When the whole family is in a car accident that kills her father and leaves her mother unable to take care of her and her brother, they are sent away to live with the woman who raised their father; their great-grandmother. Suddenly Lou finds herself coming of age in a landscape that could not be more foreign to her. On her great-grandmother's farm\u2026on the land her father loved and wrote about, Lou finds her first true friend, learns lessons in loyalty, tragedy, and redemption; and experiences adventures tragic, comic, and audacious. ...more I really enjoyed this book. I loved being transported to another time and place. I loved the characters and the writing made me feel as if I was there. \"The place smelled of coffee, wood smoke, and baking fruit pies. Umbrellas for sale hung from the ceiling. There was a bench down one wall, and three swivel chrome barstools with padded green seats were bolted to the floor in front of a waist-high counter. Glass containers filled with candy rested on the display cabinets. There was a modest soda a I really enjoyed this book. I loved being transported to another time and place. I loved the characters and the writing made me feel as if I was there. \"The place smelled of coffee, wood smoke, and baking fruit pies. Umbrellas for sale hung from the ceiling. There was a bench down one wall, and three swivel chrome barstools with padded green seats were bolted to the floor in front of a waist-high counter. Glass containers filled with candy rested on the display cabinets. There was a modest soda and ice cream fountain machine, and through a pair of saloon doors they could hear the clatter of dishes and smell the aromas of food cooking.\" ...more This was a complete departure for Baldacci and I really enjoyed it. He showed a completely different side of him and his writing skill were shine. I cried, and learned about the hardships of people living in the nountains of Virginia just before WWII, with no power and hard life farming. ENJOY There are a lot of books which make you feel things- sometimes happy, sad the other times, and much more. Then there are some books which grab you by the scruff, shake all emotions out of you and refill you with a new experience of things which you never felt before. This is one of those books for me. I won't dare to say this book is perfect. This is a story of a struggle, of how humanity works, of how you should live, of how you can improve, and I can go on listing things which the book very subt There are a lot of books which make you feel things- sometimes happy, sad the other times, and much more. Then there are some books which grab you by the scruff, shake all emotions out of you and refill you with a new experience of things which you never felt before. This is one of those books for me. I won't dare to say this book is perfect. This is a story of a struggle, of how humanity works, of how you should live, of how you can improve, and I can go on listing things which the book very subtly touches and etches those things in you. And such books are never perfect, you can find a whole bunch of faults or loopholes in it, or you can appreciate it and take something worthy out of it. I'll not even describe or comment upon how the characters were or how the story was, because they were not characters of a story; but live, breathing people with whom I spent my time, and went through all they went. <---A>David Baldacci</---A> is, apparently (because I've not read him much), a writer of legal thrillers and such. But with this book he has shown his versatility, and convinced me to read more of him. ...more Really a touching story and a stark departure from his normal books. This tells of life in the mountains of Virginia and appreciation for the \"simple\" life. I've never read any other David Baldacci books, so I can't comment on how this is a departure from those plots, even though it's very obvious that it is. The story itself is well-written, with two main children characters who are forced to grow up and learn to rely on each other after they are faced with tragedy. They move from the city to a rural town in Virginia, where they first meet their Great-Grandmother, the woman responsible for raising their father. The story follows the two children, Lou I've never read any other David Baldacci books, so I can't comment on how this is a departure from those plots, even though it's very obvious that it is. The story itself is well-written, with two main children characters who are forced to grow up and learn to rely on each other after they are faced with tragedy. They move from the city to a rural town in Virginia, where they first meet their Great-Grandmother, the woman responsible for raising their father. The story follows the two children, Lou and Oz, as they make the transition from city dwellers to country kids, learning about their father, their family, and themselves along the way. It's amazing that I liked the story as much as I did, especially because Lou very easily could have been qualified as an annoying girl who just didn't know when to shut her trap...but boy, did that girl have spirit. It was the spirit that kept her from crossing the line to a child you'd want to slap, and helped balance the initial skittishness of her little brother. There's a classic tale of older sister taking care of younger brother, doing what she had to to ensure he was safe, while trying to keep the tough chick facade that she had created. I'll admit the story ended up being a lot more touching and inspiring to me than I thought it'd be at the beginning. Baldacci's descriptions of the place the kids end up calling home speaks of beauty, love and pride in the land. ...more TLDR: David Baldacci read \"To Kill A Mockingbird\" and thought he could write the same book just as well. He was wrong. \u201cYou've got to remember that these are just simple farmers. These are people of the land. The common clay of the new West. You know... morons.\u201d \u2013Gene Wilder, Blazing Saddles Apropos of nothing, I\u2019ve been thinking of Italian Western epics a lot lately, so I thought I\u2019d do this review with a Sergio Leone flavor. The Good: In truth, I enjoyed <+++>Wish You Well</+++> more than I thought I would TLDR: David Baldacci read \"To Kill A Mockingbird\" and thought he could write the same book just as well. He was wrong. \u201cYou've got to remember that these are just simple farmers. These are people of the land. The common clay of the new West. You know... morons.\u201d \u2013Gene Wilder, Blazing Saddles Apropos of nothing, I\u2019ve been thinking of Italian Western epics a lot lately, so I thought I\u2019d do this review with a Sergio Leone flavor. The Good: In truth, I enjoyed <+++>Wish You Well</+++> more than I thought I would. David Baldacci is not the sort of author I usually read, but my mother, who enjoys light and trashy paperback fiction convinced me to read it in return for (failing to try) reading Watchmen . I had expected far worse than I got. The action centers around young Lou and Oz Cardinal who lose their father in a catastrophic car accident which also leaves their mother comatose in the framing sequences. The Cardinal children, along with their crippled mother are forced to migrate from New York to their Great Grandmother\u2019s farm in Appalachian Virginia. The story is fairly enjoyable and moves along swiftly and smoothly, with few sticking points to bog it down. Baldacci has a clear affection for the Appalachian mountains and lingers a lot on the power and majesty that he feels from them (Coming from Alaska, the Appalachians are just foothills to me, so I can\u2019t really identify here) and that much shows in the writing. The plot is sweet without drifting too far into saccharine territory for the most part. It\u2019s also commendable for Baldacci to move beyond his usual themes of espionage and thrillers into something a bit more human, even if it is just a brief vacation. One shouldn\u2019t expect great, soul moving literature from a novel like this. That it\u2019s quick and interesting enough for the reader to make it to the end is sufficient to qualify as brain candy. The Bad: Nonetheless, inoffensive story aside, Wish You Well is not well written by any reasonable standard or comparison. The viewpoint character, Lou Cardinal and her ubiquitous younger brother, Oz simply do not read as children. From page one on, they make decisions and think like adults. On occasion, Mr. Baldacci seems to recognize this and attempts to write them like true children, but still misses, with Oz seeming like a mildly retarded adult. The trouble with the children is most glaring because of their primacy in the plot, but it applies to nearly all of the characters. None seem properly human. The elderly Great Grandmother, Louisa Mae reads like a flat stereotype of the \u201cTough but soulful old broad\u201d category. Equally, country lawyer Cotton Longfellow and black farmhand Eugene Randall could easily just be called \u201cCity Educated Nice Guy\u201d and \u201cCountry Educated Nice Guy\u201d while sneaky, violent neighbor George Davis may as well be named \u201cAsshole Hillbilly\u201d (Or Bob Ewell or Dubya if you like). The book is rife with other one dimensional stereotypes masquerading as characters including \u201cCorrupt City Lawyer\u201d, \u201cSpunky Country Boy\u201d and my favorite \u201cMoustache Twirlingly Villainous Mine Operator\u201d. Baldacci seems to have trouble fully developing many of his plot points, either starting them and leaving them forgotten or plopping them down jarringly without explanation or further visitation. An example of the former is the specter of the children\u2019s dead father, or lack of one. It seems like he should be more palpably present in the story, since ostensibly, the plot turns on the grieving and growing of a shattered family. I\u2019m thinking something in the vein of \u201cDeath of a Salesman\u201d rather than \u201cA Turn of the Screw\u201d here. But, instead of letting us get to know Jack Cardinal by inches through his family and the home he grew up in, he\u2019s mostly ignored except for a few brief episodes, leaving him less than even the one dimension given to most characters. We\u2019re often told how much he is missed, but beyond that, we\u2019re not really shown it. A particularly jarring interjection takes place later in the story when Lou is attacked by a pack of wild dogs during an ill-advised late night horseback ride. Until the pack closes on her, the problem of wild dogs isn\u2019t mentioned once, though Lou seems fairly unsurprised by the animals. The scene is bafflingly resolved when the local mountain lion, famous for terrorizing farmsteads and killing livestock, swoops down upon the dogs and chases them off. Why? Your guess is as good as mine. This bizarre occurrence is then brushed aside and never revisited. The Ugly: Something that struck me about Wish You Well and Baldacci\u2019s essay on it on his website was his desire not just to convey his affection for and the beauty of the Virginia mountains, but also the simple people inhabiting those mountains. Unfortunately, he either flubs it entirely or is far too honest. His mountain people as a whole, with the notable exception of Louisa Mae, come off as ignorant, close-minded and grasping as such people very likely are. Baldacci manages to not make his hillbillies quite \u201cDeliverance\u201d quality throwbacks, but the picture he paints of the people of Appalachian Virginia in 1940 is far from favorable. The honesty, if honesty it is, should be commendable. But when an author sets out to paint a picture of an idyllic country setting and instead fills it with mobs carrying torches and pitchforks (exaggeration mine), he has failed. In the end, Wish You Well was not the worst book ever written. The story has its charm. But the characters are poorly executed and the writing overall feels rushed and poor. Hearsay has it that Baldacci writes his novels very quickly, and here, despite good intentions, it shows. ...more Wish You Well. This is a book that made me cry, and pulled at my heart, but at the same time made me smile and really appreciate what I have before I loose it. The emotion in this book was powerfully written and motivating. It\u2019s about an everyday family, everyday people who loose everything, but slowly learn to live in their new world and cope to the emotional turmoil that has happened upon, a young brother and sister. I\u2019m glad that I was encouraged to read this book, with this book\u2019s setting bei Wish You Well. This is a book that made me cry, and pulled at my heart, but at the same time made me smile and really appreciate what I have before I loose it. The emotion in this book was powerfully written and motivating. It\u2019s about an everyday family, everyday people who loose everything, but slowly learn to live in their new world and cope to the emotional turmoil that has happened upon, a young brother and sister. I\u2019m glad that I was encouraged to read this book, with this book\u2019s setting being in the time of 1940 it was not a book I would have found and read on my own, and I really enjoyed reading about Lou and Oz. It was well written; the characters were deep and engaging, and so real you could almost see yourself in the lives and world that the words create. With their father dead and their mother in an unconscious state, the two children move away from their home in Brooklyn, New York into a beautifully described Virginia rural mountain town, to live with their grandmother, on a farm. Oz teaches you to hold on to your faith and always believe in your love, when Lou shows you that through any tragedy you must come through strong and keep living and loving what you are left with. You learn about the ups and downs of a young brother and sister who loose their world and move into a new one, so completely different, but fit in so naturally. ...more This is really a hard review for me to write mostly because those I know who have read it liked it and most of the reviews I have read loved it. I just don't understand WHY! I feel like I did not read the same book. First, I think that it did not help that I read this book at the same time we were reading To Kill A Mockingbird. I do feel like this was a poor homage to To Kill A Mockingbird on some level -- two precocious kids, court room drama, evil protagonist. Sadly, David Baldacci is no Harper This is really a hard review for me to write mostly because those I know who have read it liked it and most of the reviews I have read loved it. I just don't understand WHY! I feel like I did not read the same book. First, I think that it did not help that I read this book at the same time we were reading To Kill A Mockingbird. I do feel like this was a poor homage to To Kill A Mockingbird on some level -- two precocious kids, court room drama, evil protagonist. Sadly, David Baldacci is no Harper Lee. He can be descriptive and he can do it well but sometimes it feels like he is just droning on - you know like the person who goes on and on and pays no attention to whether anyone is listening ... \"It was very early morning, when the birds had barely awoken and thumped their wings to life, and cold mists were rising from the warm ground, and the sun was only a seam of fire in the eastern sky\". The man can turn a phrase but sometimes less is more. Another issue for me was that he never really vests me in the characters. One example of this would be the character of the dad. (spoiler) He kills him off in the first chapter. We know very little about him except that he is a poor but respected writer. We don't really ever get a sense in the next 400 pages of why we should even care except that he dies tragically and his children miss him. He tries to evoke memories of him by hitting us over the head with his poetic nature via letters he had written to his great grandmother or his wife (one section even uses his writings from childhood) but it really does not work. Which brings me to the issue of the kids -- I am a kid and neither I or even my smartest friends talk like this! He writes for children like how he thinks children would sound like ... When Cotton tells Lou something, she snaps at him and says something to the effect of \"I can't look back anymore. I need to look forward and to take care of Oz (her brother)\". She is 12! No 12 year old is that thoughtful - we are selfish creatures. My cousin lost his dad at a young age and before his dad died he was asked to take care of his little sisters - as thoughtful and sweet as he is, even HE doesn't talk like that. By the second chapter, Lou and Oz have lost one parent (in front of their own eyes) and another is in a coma. They get shipped off to rural VIrginia to do hard labor on a mountain farm. They go from New York City where they had museums, music, running water, and electricity to living with a great grandmother they never met or heard much about and they NEVER complain ... not once, not ever. Also, right away they acclimate - never would have happened that fast. Don't get me started on the panther - they talk vaguely about this panther throughout the book and then all of a sudden it shows up one night and then is never seen or even mentioned again. Lou goes out on her own after (spoiler) Diamond dies and she is randomly attacked by a pack of wolves. What?? In the entire book, Lou and Diamond go out at night and they are never bothered by a pack of wolves ... wolves are never heard or EVEN mentioned as a potential problem while traversing the mountain at night. Lou goes out and she is attacked by the wolves and is saved by the panther ... you know the panther that all the farmers say is bad and evil. After that happens, Lou mentions it to no one and it is never discussed. Is the panther an angel, is it her father reincarnated to protect her ... who knows, no one because it is NEVER explained. The characters are all standard and contrived ... salt-of-the-earth great grandmother Lou; honest, hard-working lawyer, Cotton; tough, yet sweet, school-of-hard-knocks kid, Diamond; and evil, (if he had one) mustache-turning evil neighbor, George Davis ... every last one unoriginal and stereotypical. I read that they made this book into a movie and that is perfect. It is an unoriginal, predictable, happily-ever-after clap trap they like to make in Hollywood. ...more I am going to make this one short and sweet. I have never read anything by David Baldacci before as the only books I saw by him seemed to be legal-type books which I don't read much of. But after seeing Wish You Well on the shelf at the local library, it sounded like a book I could not pass up. Because I really didn't know what I was in for, the first chapter or so didn't have me convinced, but once I got to about the third chapter I was totally captivated!! This was such a beautiful story! I c I am going to make this one short and sweet. I have never read anything by David Baldacci before as the only books I saw by him seemed to be legal-type books which I don't read much of. But after seeing Wish You Well on the shelf at the local library, it sounded like a book I could not pass up. Because I really didn't know what I was in for, the first chapter or so didn't have me convinced, but once I got to about the third chapter I was totally captivated!! This was such a beautiful story! I can't even find the words worthy of describing it. The setting of this book is magical. I could picture it so clearly in my head, although I have never stepped foot in the state of Virginia or been on a mountain in my entire life. David Baldacci's writing is almost poetic the way it filled my head with the images of this place that I can only think of as being amazing. Then we have the characters. There were so many that I fell in love with that I couldn't begin to tell you my favorite. But, if I had to pick, it would probably be Louisa. Little Lou and Oz melted my heart, and you couldn't find a better friend than Diamond or more exceptional people than Eugene or Cotton. And Louisa was the perfect example of an beautiful human being. I wish I knew someone like her in my own life, as I would certainly be blessed to know them. They will not be forgotten anytime soon. There were many times I found that my eyes welled up while I was reading. To me this means that the book has reached me on such an emotional level that it has far surpassed any other book that I had thought was the best thing I had read before. I am quite sure that it will take me awhile to find another book that has this kind of impact on me. If you want a book that you will become emotionally attached to - this is that book. When I closed the back cover, this book had definitely accomplished what it set out to do - it made me feel. It grabbed my emotions and never let go. It made me smile but it also broke my heart. It made me feel the pain of loss, and the shame of cruelty. But along with this I felt joy and love. I have already recommended this book to many people. And now I am recommending it to all of you. If you only read ONE book this year, make it this one. You can thank me later. ...more Not going to lie, I didn't really have high expectations for this book. Perhaps if I didn't it wouldn't have been as good as I thought it was. You know how that happens? You set yourself up for something really great and then end up being disappointed when it's not as good as you thought it was going to be? Well, whatever, with Wish You Well I was not disappointed. The only problem with the book was that it was a little clich\u00e9d at times, not a big deal, but a little annoying. Most common clich\u00e9 w Not going to lie, I didn't really have high expectations for this book. Perhaps if I didn't it wouldn't have been as good as I thought it was. You know how that happens? You set yourself up for something really great and then end up being disappointed when it's not as good as you thought it was going to be? Well, whatever, with Wish You Well I was not disappointed. The only problem with the book was that it was a little clich\u00e9d at times, not a big deal, but a little annoying. Most common clich\u00e9 was that whenever she was angry or upset Lou would shout/say/cry her final impacting statement and then take off running. That also leads me into how the kids themselves were walking clich\u00e9s it seemed. I don't know if Baldacci had been around a lot of young people because his interpretations just seemed to be diluted copies of how other people have written kids. I believe the main audience for this book would be women and/or young adults, but I wouldn't let that deter you men from reading this. The whole book contains messages that transcend all age and gender boundaries. Large font, small pages, and short chapters could classify this book as a quick, yet moving, beach read. One thing Baldacci hoped to accomplish was to make readers interested in seeking out their own unique stories hidden in their family history. That's one of the most important messages in the novel, cherishing what's truly important and lasting not the fleeting, shallow joys of today. Overall? Good, easy, enjoyable read. ...more Wonderful book about a girl and her brother who get sent to her grandmothers in the Virginia Mountains after her father is killed in a car wreck and her mother goes into a catatonic state. Very different from what Baldacci usually writes but very enjoyable. It is 1940 and the accidental death of their father sends two children, Lou and her younger brother Oz, along with their invalid mother, from New York City to the rugged mountains of southwestern Virginia to live with their great-grandmother, Wonderful book about a girl and her brother who get sent to her grandmothers in the Virginia Mountains after her father is killed in a car wreck and her mother goes into a catatonic state. Very different from what Baldacci usually writes but very enjoyable. It is 1940 and the accidental death of their father sends two children, Lou and her younger brother Oz, along with their invalid mother, from New York City to the rugged mountains of southwestern Virginia to live with their great-grandmother, Louisa Mae Cardinal. Life is different in Virginia where food is homemade, school is a long walk down the road, and chores involve rising early in the morning. The children flourish. Then the local coal-and-gas company comes around, conniving to seize the property. The climactic courtroom battle, which will decide the fates of Lou, Oz, and their mother, is as unpredictable as it is relentless. ...more Halfway through I thought I would have to put the book down forever (forever ever? yes. forever ever) because it felt like the book was taking a godly turn a.k.a a Milla-will-put-down-the-book-forever-ever turn, because I really don\u2019t want to read about how God saves everything, because, yeah, I don\u2019t do sci-fi, okaay? Anyhow\u2026 The book is about a sister and brother who lose their parents in a car-wreck, and gets sent to live with their great-grandmother on a mountain.. Well, they lose their fathe Halfway through I thought I would have to put the book down forever (forever ever? yes. forever ever) because it felt like the book was taking a godly turn a.k.a a Milla-will-put-down-the-book-forever-ever turn, because I really don\u2019t want to read about how God saves everything, because, yeah, I don\u2019t do sci-fi, okaay? Anyhow\u2026 The book is about a sister and brother who lose their parents in a car-wreck, and gets sent to live with their great-grandmother on a mountain.. Well, they lose their father, and their mother is in a coma, and is with them on the mountain, I should say. She just lies in a bed and sleeps throughout the book\u2026 I really wish I could have done that too instead of reading it\u2026.. We follow sister Lou (11 or 12 I think) and Oz (5-6-ish) through their first year (ish) on the mountain.. Of course there\u2019s some drama in it. What will happen to the children?! Meh. Boring . Also. I found it creepy how the lawyer dude saw the woman in a coma (who literally just lost her husband in a car wreck), and automatically thought he wanted to \u201cread to her\u201d. Which we all know what meant, and it's absolutely ridiculous to add a love-story with a woman in a COMA who just lost her HUSBAND 2 days ago.. I mean.. Get away from me right now, I don\u2019t even want to look at you. Apparently the husband was soon forgotten.. There were also some mistakes in the book, which made it seem like it had originally been from a first person pov. I do not like mistakes in my books. The end. All in all it\u2019s just a boring story, really. 1 star. ...more This is a heart felt story about people, about family. Lou and her younger brother Oz find themselves alone as their father has passed away and their mother has entered a catatonic state. They head up the hills in Virginia to live on the mountain with their great grandmother Louisa, whom they have never met, but heard frequently about from their father's stories. Their experience there is filled with trials, opposition, danger, learning, growth, understanding, friendship, love, and faith. I grew This is a heart felt story about people, about family. Lou and her younger brother Oz find themselves alone as their father has passed away and their mother has entered a catatonic state. They head up the hills in Virginia to live on the mountain with their great grandmother Louisa, whom they have never met, but heard frequently about from their father's stories. Their experience there is filled with trials, opposition, danger, learning, growth, understanding, friendship, love, and faith. I grew so attached to the characters and was on the verge of tears through much of the book. Although it was evident that life on the mountain was not an easy one, the simplicity of life up there was so intriguing. Louisa kept saying throughout the whole book that she didn't need anything more than the land. She could make due with whatever it gave her. And she did. And Lou and Oz learned a bit about faith and holding on and love. It was really a great story. ...more This was a sweet story about a couple of kids that are given more hard knocks than they deserve. I normally don\u2019t like it when authors switch genres (see: James Patterson, Patricia Cornwell), but this was wonderful writing from Baldacci. The ending is a little sugary-sweet-fairy-tale-ish, but it\u2019s forgivable. I felt a little bit of an extra connection to this story because it is set where I live. I\u2019m not quite in coal country, but I\u2019m on the cusp of it. People around here hold on to their way of This was a sweet story about a couple of kids that are given more hard knocks than they deserve. I normally don\u2019t like it when authors switch genres (see: James Patterson, Patricia Cornwell), but this was wonderful writing from Baldacci. The ending is a little sugary-sweet-fairy-tale-ish, but it\u2019s forgivable. I felt a little bit of an extra connection to this story because it is set where I live. I\u2019m not quite in coal country, but I\u2019m on the cusp of it. People around here hold on to their way of life as fiercely now as they did then, even if that way has changed a bit. I can also appreciate Louisa Mae\u2019s connection with the land, since my own family made their living from the land for a long time. ...more Reviewing books is not my forte, so all I will say is that I enjoyed this one more than I had thought I would at first. The first couple of chapters I was, through tears of heartache, wondering what I had just gotten myself into. So, in order to calm my troubled heart, I read the end first. At least enough to enable me to keep reading. And I'm glad I did (keep reading and read the end first). It was a touching tale. It read very easily and was captivating - I stayed up until after 2am reading it Reviewing books is not my forte, so all I will say is that I enjoyed this one more than I had thought I would at first. The first couple of chapters I was, through tears of heartache, wondering what I had just gotten myself into. So, in order to calm my troubled heart, I read the end first. At least enough to enable me to keep reading. And I'm glad I did (keep reading and read the end first). It was a touching tale. It read very easily and was captivating - I stayed up until after 2am reading it last night and had to finish it this morning before doing anything else (sorry to my family that now will live in a dirty house for one more day). The characters truly were as rich and unforgettable as the dustcover claims. I eagerly await the book club discussion on this one ladies! ...more Lovely, homespun and poignant tale of mountain folk and simpler times and ways. (Probably the kind that would survive and prosper in dystopian times). Well narrated (some done by the author). This isn't like authors usual story. Thoroughly enjoyable for any age and most genre-lovers. Highly recommended. Baldacci, who wrote \"The Camel Club\" saga (the legal thriller) among other things, has a very interesting voice. I enjoyed this book and thought the characters were well-developed. The plot line was interesting, with lots and lots of emotional and physical baggage. A departure and what a departure it was a book about books, love of writing, and family facing everything as one and standing together There\u2019s a wishing well in David Baldacci\u2019s novel, Wish You Well. There are children with deep wounds and wishes. There are adults worn down by care, worn out by pain, and worn to warmth by love. And there\u2019s a Virginia landscape standing proud against the inroads worn by mankind. The world of the 1940s is very different from today of course, but the greeds, prejudices, loves and concerns of the characters in this book are as real today as they were then. The author offers insights into backstories There\u2019s a wishing well in David Baldacci\u2019s novel, Wish You Well. There are children with deep wounds and wishes. There are adults worn down by care, worn out by pain, and worn to warmth by love. And there\u2019s a Virginia landscape standing proud against the inroads worn by mankind. The world of the 1940s is very different from today of course, but the greeds, prejudices, loves and concerns of the characters in this book are as real today as they were then. The author offers insights into backstories with perfect timing, creating depth and breadth without ever distracting from what\u2019s going on. Tragedy melds with hope, wishes just might be fulfilled, and a city girl grows up to love the mountains of her father\u2019s youth. It\u2019s all beautifully depicted with convincing insights into a childs-eye view of friendship, life and love, and it's a lovely novel, convincingly researched, beautifully plotted, and enticingly told despite occasional predictability. Disclosure: I needed a feel-good read! ...more My grandma gave me this book, so at first I was skeptical, but I started reading it anyway. The beginning was really good, but the bulk of the middle was slow. However, the last few chapters brought everything together, tied up loose ends, and made me cry. I love this book. I'm not a fan of historical fiction, but I loved this book so much that I didn't care what time period or location. If you like historical fiction, read it. If you don't like historical fiction, read it anyway. In the beginnin My grandma gave me this book, so at first I was skeptical, but I started reading it anyway. The beginning was really good, but the bulk of the middle was slow. However, the last few chapters brought everything together, tied up loose ends, and made me cry. I love this book. I'm not a fan of historical fiction, but I loved this book so much that I didn't care what time period or location. If you like historical fiction, read it. If you don't like historical fiction, read it anyway. In the beginning, Lou slightly annoyed me, but as the book progressed, she learned that there's more to life than just getting what you want. In the beginning, Oz was just a little boy, but I loved how he gradually turned into a little man who was braver than the Oz in the beginning. In the beginning of the book, I honestly didn't really like Diamond because he annoyed me, but I grew to love his character throughout the book, and then his death really hurt me. Why would the author kill him off halfway through the book? I get that it was necessary for the trial at the end, but I wish that it could have been someone else. The fact that he died saving his dog really hurt me, too. I'm pretty sure I cried when that happened. The only thing I really didn't like was that the inside cover said something about a battle for justice in a courtroom, and the battle for justice happened throughout the book, but the courtroom didn't come in until the last three chapters or so of the book. If it just said battle for justice, I would be fine, but I felt like I was waiting for the courtroom the entire book. I'm hiding this review because of spoilers, but if you're reading this anyway, I definitely recommend it! I give it five stars! :D ...more This was a really good book! Not your typical David Baldacci book that is for sure. \"The year is 1940. After a car accident kills 12-year-old Lou's and 7-year-old Oz's father and leaves their mother Amanda in a catatonic trance, the children find themselves sent from New York City to their great-grandmother Louisa's farm in Virginia. Louisa's hardscrabble existence comes as a profound shock to precocious Lou and her shy brother. Still struggling to absorb their abandonment, they enter gamely into This was a really good book! Not your typical David Baldacci book that is for sure. \"The year is 1940. After a car accident kills 12-year-old Lou's and 7-year-old Oz's father and leaves their mother Amanda in a catatonic trance, the children find themselves sent from New York City to their great-grandmother Louisa's farm in Virginia. Louisa's hardscrabble existence comes as a profound shock to precocious Lou and her shy brother. Still struggling to absorb their abandonment, they enter gamely into a life that tests them at every turn--and offers unimaginable rewards. For Lou, who dreams of following in her father's literary footsteps, the misty, craggy Appalachians and the equally rugged individuals who make the mountains their home quickly become invested with an almost mythic significance\" It can be at times a little slow, but it really is a great book about dreams, love and the ultimate power of both love and family. Great read!!! ...more What a surprise! David Baldacci has written a novel without a \"killer-thriller\" suspense story line! Though I have liked most of his other books I've read, Wish You Well was really a refreshing change. Baldacci stated, \"Ironically, as a writer, I've spent the last twenty years or so hunting relentlessly for story material, and utterly failed to see a lumberyard within my own family (he is a native Virginian)...writing this novel was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life.\" It is about What a surprise! David Baldacci has written a novel without a \"killer-thriller\" suspense story line! Though I have liked most of his other books I've read, Wish You Well was really a refreshing change. Baldacci stated, \"Ironically, as a writer, I've spent the last twenty years or so hunting relentlessly for story material, and utterly failed to see a lumberyard within my own family (he is a native Virginian)...writing this novel was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life.\" It is about a 12 year old girl living in NY in the 1940's who, due to a tragic accident, finds herself and her family moved into the mountains of Virginia to live with her remarkable great grandmother. Maybe this story will have a greater appeal to the girls, but it is not a teen novel. It has unforgettable characters, and is a wonderful story about adversity and family strength.I wholeheartedly recomment this book!!! ...more I just finished re-reading \"Wish You Well\" by David Baldacci. It is even better than the first time I read it last year. In fact, this is one of the best books I have ever read. It is a story of Louisa (Lou) May Cardinal who lives in NYC with her brother Oz, and her parents. Her father is a writer, but he doesn't make much money from his books. He wants to go to California. There is an auto accident, and Lou\u2019s father is killed, and her mother is in a coma. The family is sent to the mountains of I just finished re-reading \"Wish You Well\" by David Baldacci. It is even better than the first time I read it last year. In fact, this is one of the best books I have ever read. It is a story of Louisa (Lou) May Cardinal who lives in NYC with her brother Oz, and her parents. Her father is a writer, but he doesn't make much money from his books. He wants to go to California. There is an auto accident, and Lou\u2019s father is killed, and her mother is in a coma. The family is sent to the mountains of Virginia to live with Lou's great-grandmother, Louisa. The culture there is very different from what Lou has experienced. This is a story about the strength of a family and the morality of that family despite hardships. It also addresses the environment, and what man has done to ruin the earth's natural resources....and it is not done in a preachy manner. \u2013Bob K. ...more Every summer the town I live in does a \"one book--one community\" thing where everyone that chooses to reads the same book and then has the option to go to discussion groups, etc., to talk about and often, to meet the author. David Baldacci is from VA and came to meet us! It was great--he is one of my favorite authors. The story is filled with imagery of the southwestern corner of Virginia--a very special and unique place. It also made me tired just reading sometimes...the hard work that was nece Every summer the town I live in does a \"one book--one community\" thing where everyone that chooses to reads the same book and then has the option to go to discussion groups, etc., to talk about and often, to meet the author. David Baldacci is from VA and came to meet us! It was great--he is one of my favorite authors. The story is filled with imagery of the southwestern corner of Virginia--a very special and unique place. It also made me tired just reading sometimes...the hard work that was necessary just to survive. And of how cruel and ignorant human beings are capable of being. But it is a wonderful reminder of how important a simpler life is in a society that values things and possessions above all else. It also has some interesting twists in the plot--you will find both tragedy and redemption. A wonderful read--I couldn't wait to find time to read even just a few pages. ...more I'm 14 and i love this book..it is very interesting and sad at the same time. At first i though it was boring then i read it and it's very good. A girl name Louisa Mae Cardinal (lou) and her brother Oscar Cardinal (oz) are on a car ride with their parents and suddenly they had a car accident. her father die and her mother is in a coma. They moved to their great grandmother house at Mountain Virginia with her mother. they had to fit themself into the current condition and Lou find it very difficul I'm 14 and i love this book..it is very interesting and sad at the same time. At first i though it was boring then i read it and it's very good. A girl name Louisa Mae Cardinal (lou) and her brother Oscar Cardinal (oz) are on a car ride with their parents and suddenly they had a car accident. her father die and her mother is in a coma. They moved to their great grandmother house at Mountain Virginia with her mother. they had to fit themself into the current condition and Lou find it very difficult...then they met a boy named Diamond Skinner and they become best friend. And there is a coal mine company who threaten to buy her great grandmother house and things happen ever since. They had to go to court and they fight for it... The conclusion is the book is really GREAT and will make you cry and you can feel like you were attached to the characters. I really recommend this. ...more Alright, I'm not going to be eloquent about it, but I HAVE to add my two cents because there are just too many glowing reviews of this book. It is so so sooooo cliche, every plot device comes straight out of made-for-TV movies, which several reviewers have commented. Makes me think of Umberto Eco's essay on Casablanca, \"The Cliches are Having a Ball,\" because the whole thing is a mishmash of courtroom drama and wistful 'long-lost simple life' tropes. The ending is ridiculous. I think I have an e Alright, I'm not going to be eloquent about it, but I HAVE to add my two cents because there are just too many glowing reviews of this book. It is so so sooooo cliche, every plot device comes straight out of made-for-TV movies, which several reviewers have commented. Makes me think of Umberto Eco's essay on Casablanca, \"The Cliches are Having a Ball,\" because the whole thing is a mishmash of courtroom drama and wistful 'long-lost simple life' tropes. The ending is ridiculous. I think I have an extra big chip on my shoulder for this one because I was forced to read it in a high school English class, because several cases were donated to the school, and I knew, oh I knew, that it would be terrible. Lifetime movies are more nuanced than this one. ...more Since I did not know the subject of this little side story to the thriller line, I was surprised at what a wonderful story it turned out to be. It's historical, in the 1930's coal/gas mountains of Virginia and about much tragedy and also heartwarming doings involving an elderly grandmother taking in a comatose mother and 2 children after a New York accident killed the husband/father. It's quite the tale for those of us liking an occasional change from the thrills and chills of our mysteries. I d Since I did not know the subject of this little side story to the thriller line, I was surprised at what a wonderful story it turned out to be. It's historical, in the 1930's coal/gas mountains of Virginia and about much tragedy and also heartwarming doings involving an elderly grandmother taking in a comatose mother and 2 children after a New York accident killed the husband/father. It's quite the tale for those of us liking an occasional change from the thrills and chills of our mysteries. I did so enjoy the story as being well told and easily read. ...more<---C>David Baldacci</---C>", "Title": "Wish You Well"},
