{"Comments": "god, i am so glad jennifer egan won the pulitzer. when i heard she won, i said \" her ??\" because i had read invisible circus and thought it was really average and not to my liking at all. but then i read goon squad ,<---M> for science</---M>, which made me read this one, and i loved them both. and now i say loudly \"HER!\" this one has similarities to goon squad (<---B>and thankfully none to invisible circus </---B>). it is a weaving narrative swirling metafictionally between a criminal writing a story for his prison writing cl god, i am so glad jennifer egan won the pulitzer. when i heard she won, i said \" her ??\" because i had read invisible circus and thought it was really average and not to my liking at all. but then i read goon squad , for science, which made me read this one, and i loved them both. and now i say loudly \"HER!\" this one has similarities to goon squad (and thankfully none to invisible circus ). it is a weaving narrative swirling metafictionally between a criminal writing a story for his prison writing class and a man visiting his estranged cousin in a broken-down castle somewhere in eastern europe; a castle that is slowly being renovated into a hotel...<---F> and something more</---F>. and then there is our narrator. this book is a creeper. both stories are individually marvelous, and when they converge, it is like the angelic choir going \"ahhhhhh\" in a way that is completely satisfying and chilly. is it perfect? no, there are some questions i am still having at the end of it, but enough of it works that i love it to little pieces, and was squeeing most of the time i was reading it. it combines the gothic sensibilities with a mystery that is at once a mystery of real-world dimensions, and a mystery of the miiiind. it is about technology and imagination and how the one impacts the other. it is about childhood mistakes and the ways in which adulthood can be resisted. it is about atonement. it is about enduring the aftershocks of decisions regretted. and it is beautiful. i, for one, did not mind the last chapter. many people did. but that story, the beginning of it anyway, felt so necessary to me. the very-end i can see is not as strong as the rest of the book, but the words leading up to it are some of the most heart-wrenching in the whole book. i love stories-within-stories and i love the gothic settings, so this was pretty much a guaranteed win for me. and i am officially a big fan of jennifer egan, and am going to read look at me before the year is out. count on it. ...more i thought this was the most criminally over-hyped and misrepresented book of last year. clearly, <---A>Jennifer Egan</---A> has many well-placed friends (and fellow back scratchers) at the NY Times Book Section to fawningly and falsely fan the flames for this book. \"<+++>The Keep</+++>\" is two half-fleshed out novellas awkwardly crammed together. with a tacked-on third short story/chapter at the end. i cannot believe that any accomplished and previously published author would look at this fragmentary and sloppy work an i thought this was the most criminally over-hyped and misrepresented book of last year. clearly, Jennifer Egan has many well-placed friends (and fellow back scratchers) at the NY Times Book Section to fawningly and falsely fan the flames for this book. \"<+++>The Keep</+++>\" is two half-fleshed out novellas awkwardly crammed together. with a tacked-on third short story/chapter at the end. i cannot believe that any accomplished and previously published author would look at this fragmentary and sloppy work and say: \"Yes, I'm finished! I'm confident I've told a compelling and fully realized story!\" what? seemingly important elements and potential subplots are mentioned several times, only to be completely abandoned; characters given prominence only to be completely inconsequential to whatever plot is supposed to be going on. but oh yeah, it's 'meta', it doesn't have to be coherent. whatev. Entertainment Weekly gave it a deserved \"D\": http://www.ew.com/ew/article/0,,12198... i'm only glad i got this one from the library and didn't plunk down money to have my time so wasted. to be fair, i do think she is a decent writer. some turns of phrase and concise descriptions are nice. (and apparently \"Look at Me\" is great.) but this is just laughably unfinished. the only brightside is that it's really fast reading. she should be embarrassed that so many people paid $25 hardcover for this though. i would. ...more My review of this book will sound like it deserves more stars than I've given it, because overall, I only found one flaw in this fine homage to ghost stories and their tellers. Unfortunately, it's a major one, though I'm sure some will read right past it without so much as a blip. Egan sets up two fascinating threads, that of two cousins coming together in adulthood to play out the effects of a long-held secret between them, and the prisoner crafting their tale while taking a writing class from My review of this book will sound like it deserves more stars than I've given it, because overall, I only found one flaw in this fine homage to ghost stories and their tellers. Unfortunately, it's a major one, though I'm sure some will read right past it without so much as a blip. Egan sets up two fascinating threads, that of two cousins coming together in adulthood to play out the effects of a long-held secret between them, and the prisoner crafting their tale while taking a writing class from a woman he wants to impress. Both worlds are vividly evoked, and the two central figures both haunted in ways that play out to page-turning effects. The one flaw is how Egan makes these narratives collide in the book's climax. To me, it feels rushed and therefore contrived in a way the rest of the book is not, which is no small feat considering the overused elements she's working with: the prisoner with the heart of gold, the haunted castle in a remote village, and the more recently overused element, the writer of the story being in the novel (see Atonement, The History of Love, The Blind Assassin, et al.). And it's really too bad that she made that choice, because in every other way, I loved this book, its love for writing and storytelling, the way it shows us what it really means to be haunted in modern society. And especially the final chapter, which solidifies that latter theme in a beautifully lyric voice that haunts the reader long after it's done. ...more I've had this conviction for a long time that Jennifer Egan should be one of my favorite writers. She's a SHE who writes popular-but-smart contemporary fiction with ideas and experimental stuff in it. My hero! Ex-punks from the Bay Area! A woman teaching writing in prison...?!!! It's like Jennifer Egan produces books especially for ME! Oh yes, my swooning Egan fangirl plan makes so much sense on paper... The only problem with it is that for some reason I can't stand her books. First I tried A Vis I've had this conviction for a long time that Jennifer Egan should be one of my favorite writers. She's a SHE who writes popular-but-smart contemporary fiction with ideas and experimental stuff in it. My hero! Ex-punks from the Bay Area! A woman teaching writing in prison...?!!! It's like Jennifer Egan produces books especially for ME! Oh yes, my swooning Egan fangirl plan makes so much sense on paper... The only problem with it is that for some reason I can't stand her books. First I tried A Visit from the Good Squad and felt like I was being tortured physically, and bailed, so then I tried Look at Me , but I really hated that. I mean, hated , all the more painful because I'd so badly wanted to love it. So last night I sat down to read The Keep and swore I'd finish it if it killed me, which I did, and it didn't. There were definitely some awesome things about this book. The spooky stuff at the castle was great, and reading one of the best and most frightening scenes last night, up alone at 2am, I got those chills -- and the book's well-described \"worm\" -- on a level that became hard for me to achieve by reading around the time I reached puberty. So Egan does gain a lot of my respect for that. But the thing is that aside from these portions, I just don't enjoy her writing. There are two problems: (1) it doesn't surprise me, and (2) I don't believe it. In terms of the first, I almost always have this dull sense of overfamiliarity, sort of like the difference between touching yourself and someone else touching you. I read because I want the thrill of thoughts I never could have, and while obviously I don't actually think I could think or write like Jennifer Egan, somehow that's the sensation I get when I'm reading. Not all the time, but in general, both at the level of language and sentences, and in terms of characters and plot, I never have that awed feeling that I get with -- just throwing out a random name to represent this -- say, Steven Millhauser, where I'm just like, \"HOW does this lunatic's brain even MANUFACTURE this shit??!?\" While the little experimental formal things she does do help wake a girl up, the actual prose is never that exciting to me and is often the opposite (as when a character's terror is expressed by ice in his chest, or when his guts twist every few pages in fear). I also just don't buy it. I don't believe it. I don't believe in her characters and I never stop seeing her doing research on prison life and meth addiction and I can't ever suspend my disbelief accept that it's actually real. So I never care about the characters, because I don't buy them. This book held me with its suspense about the situation -- I wanted to understand what was happening at that creepy old castle! -- but I never gave a shit if anyone in it lived or died, and while I was engaged by the more fantastic, gothic storyline, the gritty realist-ish portions just got on my nerves. Just to be clear, this isn't supposed to be in any way a criticism of Egan, just my own 100% subjective and inexplicable response to her work. Obviously she's a brilliant Pulitzer Prize winning author and I am a dunce. There's a lot that I appreciate about her writing, and she does all this stuff that in theory I should love. But even when I like it -- the castle portions of this book, the tweeted spy story \"Black Box\" -- her writing never affects me any more than decent TV. I just can't engage with it on a significant level. I don't really know why. It makes me sad, because on paper she should be my perfect match, but in that mysterious affairs-of-the-heart way, we lack chemistry. Sad! For me, not for Egan; she has plenty of suitors. Me, I'm back to pawing dismally through unread books on my shelves while I wait for Richard Powers's new book to come out, as it's scheduled to do in just eleven interminable and lonely days. ...more I picked this one up a month or so ago based on the NY Times Book Review writeup from forever ago, because was that review so positive that it glowed like a deep-sea anglerfish's esca? Oh, yes. But is that an apt metaphor? Also yes, because reading the book felt like being digested by an anglerfish (if you know what that feels like), plus guess what, and this is the most important take-away: A book review in the NY Times Book Review is different from a book review in the NY Times ; did everyone e I picked this one up a month or so ago based on the NY Times Book Review writeup from forever ago, because was that review so positive that it glowed like a deep-sea anglerfish's esca? Oh, yes. But is that an apt metaphor? Also yes, because reading the book felt like being digested by an anglerfish (if you know what that feels like), plus guess what, and this is the most important take-away: A book review in the NY Times Book Review is different from a book review in the NY Times ; did everyone else know this but me? For: Madison Smartt Bell in the NYTBR was bioluminescent in her praise, whereas Janet Maslin in her NYT br was more like \"this book is the poor man's lobster\" (her way of saying, \"this is contrived and dumb and lame\", I think. Who knows with Maslin?). (dropping this metaphor now; if you came here to read about anglerfish, please see my review of Anglerfish: The Secret History of the Fish that Saved Europe .) There are some nice, likeable little things in the book, like the game \"Terminal Zeus\", although the best thing about it is the name, which sounds like something Neil Gaiman would say in his sleep, and not the description of the game, which seems put in there so there is a superficial connection between it and Dungeons & Dragons in general and folktale ghosts from \"medieval times\" and Danny's uncommented-upon-by-anyone-else-in-the-story goth makeup (which, huh?) and the titular haunted Keep. And in one of the superstructures (the initial haunted-stuff story of the cousins turns out to be written by an inmate in a prison writing workshop, and this story in turn may also be circumscribed by an \u00fcberstory by the teacher, although I'd have to reread it to be sure, and guess what?), there is a box full of hair that a character uses to communicate with ghosts, and this might be the most intriguing single moment in the book, but ultimately just shows up, threatens to connect thematically and is then is disgarded in a Safran-Foer kind of way. All the overall metaphors and all of the thematic connection between foils, in fact, feel superficial and tacked on with this book. Defenders will probably be quick to point out that this is reasonable, because the actual \"authors\" of the \"stories\" of the \"book\" are amateur writers who don't know what they're doing. I am no Madison Smartt Bell (and no Janet Maslin) (nor was meant to be -- foil joke!) and so I couldn\u2019t say for sure that the awkwardness in the writing isn\u2019t intentional, but I will say the poor writing is inconsistent -- good writing frequently shows up -- as are the poorly delineated characters: the inmate, Ray, gives his creation, Danny, a great deal of knowledge about things like the specific names of furniture from the 14th century that neither Danny nor Ray would know, but assuming they do, they then drop the ball on \"crenellation\" calling it \"rectangle things\". There's so much intertextual cross-polination and expositional buildup, that the final effect is like a Rube Goldberg contraption that ends up just turning on a lightbulb. (that was not a callback to the bioluminescent esca on an anglerfish stuff by the way. or was it? ooooh, I get to have it both ways!) signed, Danny signed, Ray signed, Holly signed, Jennifer N.B. I just thought of a better way to say all of this, which is: \" House of Leaves hooked up with The Castle of Otranto and had a short baby.\" ...more Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jpa8... Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2016: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4X6OQ... Dope beyond words. An extraordinary Gothic novel that draws on its tradition to reflect upon the powers of the imagination, to stimulate the reader's, and to push the limits of first person narration TO THE MAX. Shares several similarities with The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, and Oscar Wao is pretty much the best novel of all times. This book is told (written) by an inmate in prison taking a writing class. The narrator (the inmate) isn't a great writer; he doesn't always know the \"correct\" word for things. (on the first page he refers to the top of castle having those \"rectangle things that kids always put on the top of castles.\") This \"untalented\" narrator allows for some of the best, coolest description of things and feelings I've ever read. A very fast read. The end is disappointing, but only b/c so much of the book is gr This book is told (written) by an inmate in prison taking a writing class. The narrator (the inmate) isn't a great writer; he doesn't always know the \"correct\" word for things. (on the first page he refers to the top of castle having those \"rectangle things that kids always put on the top of castles.\") This \"untalented\" narrator allows for some of the best, coolest description of things and feelings I've ever read. A very fast read. The end is disappointing, but only b/c so much of the book is greaking (yes, not freaking, greaking, I don't know what that means, but I used it) good. Even not liking the ending all that much, this was easily one of my favorite reads. ...more Part modern gothic novel, part suspense thriller, The Keep's reality steadily spins out of control as imagination intermingles with tunnels and family secrets. Ms. Egan's brilliant book contains a construction so clever the reader barely notices there is a multi level mystery going on until the plot is in full swing. The writing is so fluid that you have the sensation of knowing the characters and you feel like you are a part of their lives. Burdened with his mistakes of long ago and seeking to esc Part modern gothic novel, part suspense thriller, The Keep's reality steadily spins out of control as imagination intermingles with tunnels and family secrets. Ms. Egan's brilliant book contains a construction so clever the reader barely notices there is a multi level mystery going on until the plot is in full swing. The writing is so fluid that you have the sensation of knowing the characters and you feel like you are a part of their lives. Burdened with his mistakes of long ago and seeking to escape the randomness and chaos of New York, Danny King arrives at a sinister medieval castle in Eastern Europe. He joins his cousin Howard to renovate the castle into a luxury retreat. Early on we find out there is more than one narrative voice here and I certainly won't spoil things by expanding on that. There are many themes and ideas going on but for me the one that really hit home was the fact that the power of art and creativity can transform the most twisted and hopeless lives. ...more After reading (and loving) Jennifer Egan's A Visit from the Goon Squad almost two years ago, I purposefully didn't pick up anything else she wrote for a while. I didn't want to run the risk that the author of one of my all-time favorite books was a flash in the pan, a one-trick pony. Turns out I needn't have worried. The Keep is a rich, perplexing, wonderful book, and the less you know about it going in, the better. At first it appears to be about childhood resentments bubbling to the surface in After reading (and loving) Jennifer Egan's A Visit from the Goon Squad almost two years ago, I purposefully didn't pick up anything else she wrote for a while. I didn't want to run the risk that the author of one of my all-time favorite books was a flash in the pan, a one-trick pony. Turns out I needn't have worried. The Keep is a rich, perplexing, wonderful book, and the less you know about it going in, the better. At first it appears to be about childhood resentments bubbling to the surface in adulthood as Danny, a ne'er-do-well with a spotty employment record and checkered past, is invited to help his cousin Howard renovate a European castle and turn it into a hotel. There's tension and trauma between these two, and for a while you're expecting Egan to explore how the sins of the past return to haunt us in the present. But then she turns the narration on its head, and what you thought the book was about isn't what it's about at all. So you settle into this new paradigm and marvel at how Egan's pulling this off ... and then she does it again in the final pages, another shift in narration, another adjustment of the reader's expectations. I'm being purposefully vague, because I think if I knew what was coming it wouldn't have been nearly as effective or delightful. The whole thing manages to be a lament for childhood, a gothic horror story, and an exploration of the American penal system. It's a dynamite book, and I won't be waiting two more years to spend some time with Egan. ...more This book was such an enigma to me and only half way thought was when I started appreciating the delectable balance of realms changing from sanity to the reality that the author wanted me to appreciate. The Keep is unlike any other book I've read in the past year, it has more than one narrator, three to be exact, and all different people who become the strands of the rope binding the story. This tale reads like a surreal fairy tale switching between Danny who has lost his home, job and stability This book was such an enigma to me and only half way thought was when I started appreciating the delectable balance of realms changing from sanity to the reality that the author wanted me to appreciate. The Keep is unlike any other book I've read in the past year, it has more than one narrator, three to be exact, and all different people who become the strands of the rope binding the story. This tale reads like a surreal fairy tale switching between Danny who has lost his home, job and stability with nothing else to do but go live with his cousin Howard at a castle somewhere near Prague and Ray who is an inmate at a prison completing a writing class only to get close to his teacher Holly, who he feels is the only person who understands him and who matters. The tale switches from Danny and his frustration of not having any internet and cell phone connection to which he is addicted to beyond belief, quite ironic since he arrives as a crumbling castle with interns trying to renovate it, his cousin and his wife Annie who shun out all electronic equipment in order to keep the place as a sanctuary type of a hotel,his best friend and a crazy baroness who is the last surviving living member who's life line carries the history and secrets of the castle itself. The story is quite interesting where the cousins start to remember their troubled past and compare their present situation as it switches back and forth form them and unveiling the baroness and the castle's secrets to them and Ray, the talented prison writer who is making up a story that might not be so fictional after all, one that will make for an amazing ending of a great novel. I found the writing to be haunting and very real. The author does an amazing job of digging deep into the human subconscious and psyche and churns out lines that the characters say and deal with that I found touched how I was feeling at the time when I read the book. She describes Danny and his guilty subconscious thoughts of being worried about something that all the worrying in the world won't change as a worm that is digging deeper and deeper into his brain. If he decides to let it in and eat him alive, his thought to control his emotions as he has a very close encounter with death then he is doomed. I found the writing to be fascinating and by the end of the book anything was possible. I loved the story and I am quite impressed that such a short book held my attention as such high interest the whole time I was reading it. This is for the open minded, about borders, tales and sanity levels that overlap to form a fantastic story that marries old civilizations and modern day marvels into one fun tale of enigmatic proportions that was better than I could have even suspected. This book is hard to explain, it must simply be read and digested by each reader to be fully appreciated. - Kasia S. ...more Loved this - a story, within a story, within a story. One of my favourite things about Egan is how she weaves our conflicted relationship to technology into her stories without the references sounding anachronistic or hokey. This is a minor but important note in this novel about our alienation from our own imaginations (the grandiose theme), or, if you prefer, a guy whose vacation to visit his childhood buddy goes horribly wrong. *3.5 Stars* Even though I read this way back in 2007, I am posting my review now. I don't think Goodreads even existed in 2007. In any case I was not a member. But tonight I am posting my review of A Visit From the Good Squad, which is related to my feelings about The Keep. So here you go: Wow! Wow! Wow! So good. I've been fascinated about this book since I first heard of it, but even so all the reviews did not begin to explain what it is really about. Yes, there is a crumbling castle with a keep in eastern Even though I read this way back in 2007, I am posting my review now. I don't think Goodreads even existed in 2007. In any case I was not a member. But tonight I am posting my review of A Visit From the Good Squad, which is related to my feelings about The Keep. So here you go: Wow! Wow! Wow! So good. I've been fascinated about this book since I first heard of it, but even so all the reviews did not begin to explain what it is really about. Yes, there is a crumbling castle with a keep in eastern Europe and yes there is a main character who is obsessed with staying connected by phone and email. But this story is really about crime and redemption; about the inexplicable connections people make; and about the power of imagination to redeem anyone. It is also about the vast imperfections of human life. Nobody gets off easy and no one gets out alive. On top of all that, the writing is fantastic, the dialogue and pace made me breathless and even the most despicable character is lovable. One review called The Keep \"deliciously creepy,\" because totally entwined with the modern hipness is a Gothic feel. Already from early on in the story there are two layers or stories going; one in the castle and one in a prison. In fact, the person writing the story is a prisoner taking a writing class. I was impressed by the way Egan handled these two layers. Then in the last 25 pages she takes it a surprising layer deeper, which enriches the entire tale. Wow! Wow! Wow! ...more La trama que se nos narra en \u2018La torre del homenaje\u2019, de la estadounidense Jennifer Egan, en realidad son dos. Por un lado, tenemos la historia de Danny, un joven treinta\u00f1ero que viaje desde Nueva York hasta un pa\u00eds centroeuropeo huyendo de la vida que lleva hasta ahora. Resulta que Danny ha sido invitado por su adinerado primo Howard a su castillo medieval, que est\u00e1 en plena restauraci\u00f3n, con la idea de transformarlo en un hotel. La \u00fanica particularidad, es que los aparatos electr\u00f3nicos est\u00e1n p La trama que se nos narra en \u2018La torre del homenaje\u2019, de la estadounidense Jennifer Egan, en realidad son dos. Por un lado, tenemos la historia de Danny, un joven treinta\u00f1ero que viaje desde Nueva York hasta un pa\u00eds centroeuropeo huyendo de la vida que lleva hasta ahora. Resulta que Danny ha sido invitado por su adinerado primo Howard a su castillo medieval, que est\u00e1 en plena restauraci\u00f3n, con la idea de transformarlo en un hotel. La \u00fanica particularidad, es que los aparatos electr\u00f3nicos est\u00e1n prohibidos. All\u00ed, Danny conocer\u00e1 a enigm\u00e1ticos personajes. Por otro lado, est\u00e1 la historia del narrador, que adem\u00e1s se encuentra en una prisi\u00f3n de m\u00e1xima seguridad, donde asiste a un taller de escritura impartido por una profesora, por la que se sentir\u00e1 atra\u00eddo. De esta manera, ambas historias se ir\u00e1n sucediendo paralelamente, al tiempo que ir\u00e1n entrelaz\u00e1ndose. Jennifer Egan es una buena narradora, y realiza un gran trabajo a la hora de estructurar su novela. Mediante una prosa enga\u00f1osamente sencilla y ligera, logra mantener nuestra atenci\u00f3n sobre lo que est\u00e1 sucediendo. Para m\u00ed, el \u00faltimo tercio es lo mejor de la novela. \u2018La torre del homenaje\u2019 es un buen thriller , con ciertos tintes g\u00f3ticos y alg\u00fan que otro giro inesperado. ...more A very peculiar book, about two cousins who re-unite at an old castle in Germany after not having seen each other since childhood. Along with this, it's the story of an inmate in prison for shooting someone in the head. At first, the transitions seemed a little jarring, as well as the narration, but I found it pretty easy to get the swing of. A lot of readers seemed put off by the vague narration style, and how at times you don't really know what happened or if things were just a dream. I'm a fan A very peculiar book, about two cousins who re-unite at an old castle in Germany after not having seen each other since childhood. Along with this, it's the story of an inmate in prison for shooting someone in the head. At first, the transitions seemed a little jarring, as well as the narration, but I found it pretty easy to get the swing of. A lot of readers seemed put off by the vague narration style, and how at times you don't really know what happened or if things were just a dream. I'm a fan of more surrealist works, like Haruki Murakami, so I actually really liked this aspect of the book. It's one of those books that whether it happened or not doesn't really matter--what matters is the actions characters take because of what they thought happened. I wasn't exactly sure how she planned on tying the two stories together, but in the end I really liked the result. Not a book for the more literal-minded crowd, but worth a shot if you can tolerate disjointed narration styles. ...more This book was such a surprise -- a story within a story within a story. Danny did a horrible thing to his cousin Howie when they were kids. Twenty years later, Howie's a mega millionaire who's bought a castle in Europe and he sends for the troubled Goth Danny. Is this reality, or just a story Ray has created for his prison writing class? Is THAT reality, or just a fantasy a recovering meth addict has created? Lots of tunnels, and words, and the color orange, and dungeons and secrets. I picked up Jennifer Egan 's The Keep because, well, Halloween, and for its premise: three different stories told by three different narrators that intertwine for an unusual twist on the gothic tale. The Keep opens with a seemingly traditional gothic tale. Danny arrives at the doorstep of a castle somewhere in central Europe after a maddeningly long and confusing journey. He's tired and disoriented and before him, in all its glory, is a mysterious castle, heavy with atmosphere and history, someth I picked up Jennifer Egan 's The Keep because, well, Halloween, and for its premise: three different stories told by three different narrators that intertwine for an unusual twist on the gothic tale. The Keep opens with a seemingly traditional gothic tale. Danny arrives at the doorstep of a castle somewhere in central Europe after a maddeningly long and confusing journey. He's tired and disoriented and before him, in all its glory, is a mysterious castle, heavy with atmosphere and history, something out of a fevered dream. Danny has a history of his own too, as it seems all protagonists do in gothic tales. He's an ex-con who bounced around a bit, and has recently gotten into the kind of trouble that involves busted kneecaps (he walks with a limp when we first meet him). When his cousin Howard calls him out of the blue and invites him to help with a castle renovation, dangling a one-way ticket, Danny is quickly on board. Serendipity or so it seems. Now cue the organ music to highlight that something is amiss. We learn that the relationship between Danny and Howard isn't so straightforward. A horrible childhood incident (recounted in flashback) has marred their lives forever, and you begin to suspect that Howard's motives might be more sinister. As the days go by, Danny's perceptions of the castle begin to darken. Egan gets a little heavy-handed with the foreshadowing when Howard reveals his renovation plans for the castle: to turn it into a new-age retreat for people to get in touch with their inner imaginations. Howard argues that TV and movies and other forms of passive entertainment have impoverished the mind, that we don't know how to tell ourselves stories anymore. Danny balks at this and then starts to become increasingly paranoid about his cousin's true intentions. Perhaps his cousin has brought him here to enact some revenge fantasy on him as payback for that long-ago but never forgotten, cruel childhood prank. Egan's brilliant, slow poison starts to take effect, and we see Danny start to unravel. The fourth wall breaks early on with this line, so watch for it: \"You? Who the hell are you?\u00a0 That\u2019s what someone must be saying right about now.\u00a0 Well, I\u2019m the guy talking.\u00a0 Someone\u2019s always doing the talking, just a lot of times you don\u2019t know who it is or what their reasons are.\u00a0 My teacher, Holly, told me that.\" The line comes like a slap right in the middle of Danny's narrative. The trespassing authorial presence seems to engage us directly, and suddenly the gothic creepiness dissolves into something more ominous. Who is telling this story? Cue the second story. We find out that the first story is an account being written by another character, Ray. Ray is a convict in a max security prison doing time for murder. He's writing about Danny and Howard as part of a creative writing course. He claims the story is true, told to him by a friend, and yet it's obvious that Ray is more involved in the story's events than he's letting on. In this narrative, Egan mostly shows Ray growing more and more infatuated with this writing teacher, Holly. In the third story, Holly becomes our narrator, and we learn how she's become emotionally involved with Ray and how the castle story about Danny and Howard connects them somehow. The connection is more emotional and psychological at first, and later becomes something much more real. Or so it seems. I can't make up my mind about The Keep . On one hand, it's a mind-bending Mobius strip of a book; on the other, it feels gimmicky, and besides, other writers have done it and done it better. But I suspect there's something there meant to fool us, to make us dismiss it too quickly. (To show our flawed, impoverished imaginations perhaps?) On the whole, the book is a story about childhood demons that never quite go away, psychological traumas that come back and become real-world dangers. To her credit, Egan creates some genuinely horrifying moments. The scenes of Danny walking around the castle grounds; the dark pool of sludge he ponders; the keep with its strange occupant, a malevolent baroness who refuses to vacate the castle; the small town whose streets become a maze that Danny can't navigate; the claustrophobia-inducing underground tunnels\u2014all nightmarish. But the way the book is structured\u2014with its second story intruding early on\u2014Egan robs the book of some of the psychological complexity it could be building up, and we never truly have the gothic aspects to ourselves. We're always made aware that it's *just* a story. Though I now wonder...could this all be some kind of larger authorial trick? I started to suspect this by the time I got to the Holly story. OK, I thought, here's a book that has three strands woven together in a tight braid. There are twists and turns that are clever, though mostly obvious, and then Egan drops the narrative magic altogether by the time we get to Holly's story. At this point, I was feeling cheated, like the complex layers of narrative had all been too contrived and forced. As I started thinking more about Holly, though, I began to develop other ideas. Egan is being very, very deliberate with Holly. Holly's narrative is supposed to be the 'real' part of the story, where all illusions drop away, where the veil is finally lifted. But I suspect that Egan is actually showing us the real 'gothic' story with Holly. (view spoiler) [In the last few pages, Holly decides to drop everything and visit the castle from Ray's story. She gets on a plane and make the journey, exactly as Danny does in the first story. I couldn't help but think she was entering her own fever dream. In fact, she desperately and irrationally hopes that Ray might be there so they can reunite. In one section, Holly even assumes the character of the baroness locked away in the keep. The book finally ends with a surreal scene with Holly stepping into the pool of imagination. (hide spoiler) ] The Keep is much more complex for its own good, much like the castle, and maybe even our imaginations, with all its impenetrable walls, unfathomable depths, and dark passageways. ...more The Keep by Jennifer Egan is an intriguing gothic ghost story with a difference. It is metafiction with layering of narratives. In my view, it is principally about the power of the imagination and what constitutes reality. Set in a medieval castle, the story is told mainly by Ray, the protagonist-narrator, who cranked up the suspense as the reader traversed the castle grounds. The decrepit castle was in the process of being spruced into a hotel and carried within its mysterious halls a putrid po The Keep by Jennifer Egan is an intriguing gothic ghost story with a difference. It is metafiction with layering of narratives. In my view, it is principally about the power of the imagination and what constitutes reality. Set in a medieval castle, the story is told mainly by Ray, the protagonist-narrator, who cranked up the suspense as the reader traversed the castle grounds. The decrepit castle was in the process of being spruced into a hotel and carried within its mysterious halls a putrid pool (haunted by a pair of drowned siblings) and a tower called The Keep with its underground tunnels and a Havisham-like Baroness (who claimed ownership of the castle). The reader follows Danny, a young loafer, as he made his way to the castle at the invitation of his cousin, Howard, who had bought the castle and gathered a team of graduate students and a guy called Mick (ex-convict on parole) to convert it into a high-concept resort that promised life-changing possibilities. Many times in the novel, Egan alluded to the idea of The Keep as the last stronghold, the one place in the castle to which one fled when the walls were breached. The Keep is a safe place, a sanctuary. This theme plays itself out in the lives of several of its characters. More specifically, The Keep is \"the pool of imagination\". In an era of over- connectedness, Egan seems to suggest the need to wean ourselves from our satellite dishes and live more fully in our imagination. It is the only reality that matters, as it is a shield from myriads of personal threats. Howard, for example, attributed his childhood survival from the ordeal of being left to die in a cave to his ability to conjure up mind games and the many rooms in his head into which he escaped. Davis, too, created a radio out of a shoebox of dust wherein he was purportedly able to hear the voices of the dead. Ray, commenting on this ghost-tracking device, again underlined the strength of the imagination: \"And in that split second, I go from pretending straight into believing - it's like all the pretending made me believe.\" Even the frail Baroness believed in the illusion of her power and control, and it defined reality for her. Thus, as one of the characters put it, \"there's nothing out there you won't swallow\" if you trust your mind. Antithetical to the keep is the worm, which represents the \"one evil terrifying thing that had waited years to catch up\" with the individual. The worm's gnawing destruction is best exemplified in Danny's guilt surrounding the cruel childhood trick he played on Howard. Guarding one's thoughts is all important. I appreciated the notion of The Keep and for me, this is the most salient point of this novel. Less satisfying for me is the inconsistent way in which Egan employed the Keep as a metaphor. For all its profession to be a place of refuge, The Keep turned out surprisingly to be a labyrinth of tunnels, a mass grave, for which there was no way out. What I also found difficult to navigate is the shifting perspectives that came from the multiple layering of narratives (as told by Ray, Danny, Holly) and the non-linear timeline. The cleverness of the novel's structure can be a double-edged sword. Despite parts in the story that did not seem necessary to the plot and a somewhat contrived and disappointing penultimate chapter, The Keep is nonetheless quite absorbing. Read it on a stormy night with howling winds - it may just keep you up all night. ...more What is real? That was what I kept asking myself while reading this novel. Now, more than a week after going through the whole book, I still don't feel quite ready to answer the question. To be honest, I think that's the point. We are told what seem to be, at first, two different stories, one real and one fiction, the fictional one being written by a character from the real one. Then, at some point, they intertwine as, after reading A Visit from the Goon Squad , one would expect. But, instead of ma What is real? That was what I kept asking myself while reading this novel. Now, more than a week after going through the whole book, I still don't feel quite ready to answer the question. To be honest, I think that's the point. We are told what seem to be, at first, two different stories, one real and one fiction, the fictional one being written by a character from the real one. Then, at some point, they intertwine as, after reading A Visit from the Goon Squad , one would expect. But, instead of making the story clearer as it happens on A Visit from the Goon Squad , in this case only more questions arise, more mystery. (view spoiler) [Specially when you are reading the supposedly fictional part written in third person and you suddenly run into an \"(...) and I \". I had to stop reading and go back a couple of pages to see if I had missed something. Then I understood I hadn't, it was all part of the game . I think it was clever, even though I would have loved it to be a new character that we had all somehow missed. (hide spoiler) ] There's a fog that I expected to be cleared and that wasn't. And the ending itself? I didn't really like it. It felt somehow out of place. (view spoiler) [Even though I quite liked how Holly met Ann's vision of the place. The pool in the darkness, the waking up to a new world, perhaps even a new self. Full circle . (hide spoiler) ] The only thing I am sure of is that I absolutely adore Jennifer Egan's writing style. Her relationship with words is brilliant to the point of having you follow her into a fog that you can feel is taking over and yet you choose not to abandon it. You want to move forward, to see what's beyond it... \u201cPeople are bored. They're dead! Go to a shopping mall and check out the faces. I did this for years \u2013 I'd drive out to the malls on weekends and just sit there watching people, trying to figure it out. What's missing? What do they need? What's the next step? And then I got it: imagination . We've lost the ability to make things up. We've farmed out that job to the entertainment industry, and we sit around and drool on ourselves while they do it for us.\u201c That was my favourite part of the book. The reflection about the importance of imagination . And that's exactly what Jennifer Egan is doing with The Keep , she's playing with our imagination. And I am very grateful for that. But still, that ending... Sigh . It was just too rushed for me, too out of nowhere . All in all, it was quite an experience. Great food for thought! P.S. There was one other quote, scene, that made me fall in love with this book. It's when Davis is talking about about death, \u201cAll that love, all that pain, all the stuff people feel \u2013 not just me and you, brother, but everyone, everyone who's ever walked this beautiful green planet \u2013 how can all that disappear when somebody dies? It can't disappear, it's too big. Too strong, too... permanent. So it moves to another frequency, where the human ear can't pick up.\" ...more Die unterschiedlichen Erz\u00e4hlstr\u00e4nge sind jeder f\u00fcr sich genommen ungemein spannend und das Ende ist nie vorhersehbar: Das erste Kapitel suggeriert eine jugendliche Verratsgeschichte, die die Erwachsenen einholt. Zum Ende dieses Kapitels wird zudem der Erz\u00e4hler Ray eingef\u00fchrt, der offenbar im Gef\u00e4ngnis sitzt und einen Schreibkurs absolviert. Zweites Kapitel \u2013 Erneuter Perpektivwechsel: Wir lernen Danny, aus deren Perspektive wir bislang in die Geschichte eingef\u00fchrt wurden, aus Sicht der Anderen k Die unterschiedlichen Erz\u00e4hlstr\u00e4nge sind jeder f\u00fcr sich genommen ungemein spannend und das Ende ist nie vorhersehbar: Das erste Kapitel suggeriert eine jugendliche Verratsgeschichte, die die Erwachsenen einholt. Zum Ende dieses Kapitels wird zudem der Erz\u00e4hler Ray eingef\u00fchrt, der offenbar im Gef\u00e4ngnis sitzt und einen Schreibkurs absolviert. Zweites Kapitel \u2013 Erneuter Perpektivwechsel: Wir lernen Danny, aus deren Perspektive wir bislang in die Geschichte eingef\u00fchrt wurden, aus Sicht der Anderen kennen: Hielt man ihn bislang vermutlich f\u00fcr einen unscheinbaren IT-Nerd, erf\u00e4hrt man hier, dass er schwarz gekleidet, durch Babypuder betont blass ist und roten Lippenstift tr\u00e4gt. Sein K\u00f6rper ist von Tattoos und Narben gezeichnet, die er sich bei diversen Jobs als T\u00fcrsteher und \u00e4hnlichem zugezogen hat. Durch diese Perspektivwechsel wird nicht nur Spannung in die Geschichte(n) gebracht, es geht auch immer wieder um die M\u00f6glichkeiten von Sprache und Literatur. Es sieht in mancher Hinsicht so aus, als ginge es um den Ursprung des Geschichtenerz\u00e4hlens in beengten, ausweglosen R\u00e4umlichkeiten (H\u00f6hle, Gef\u00e4ngnis, von moderner Kommunikation abgeschnittener Burg). Die Bedeutung von W\u00f6rtern wird immer wieder analysiert: Danny erfindet Begriffe f\u00fcr Empfindungen, denen kein existierender Ausdruck gerecht werden kann; der inhaftierte Danny sammelt ungew\u00f6hnliche Ausdr\u00fccke um aus ihnen eine imagin\u00e4re Welt au\u00dferhalb der Gef\u00e4ngnismauern zu erbauen; die Burg, auf der Ray seinen Cousin trifft befindet sich in einer Art Niemandsland, dessen Sprache sie beide nicht sprechen. Daneben geht es um Traumata, Drogenrausch, verkrachte Existenzen... Mich \u00fcberrascht, wie vielseitig Jennifer Egan schreibt: Nach Der gr\u00f6\u00dfere Teil der Welt , der von Menschen handelt, die auf unterschiedliche Weise mit Musik zu tun haben und dem Twitter-Agentenroman Black Box , zeigt sich auch hier, dass sie gleichzeitig spannende Geschichten erz\u00e4hlen und mit literarischen Formen spielen kann. ...more I was puzzled while I was reading this book, and am still puzzled after finishing it. It's a story within a story: we watching a suspenseful tale unfold, set in a European castle, through the eyes of a narrator who happens to be a prisoner writing the story for a writing class. Jennifer Egan does some interesting \"technical\" things--moving between the first person and third person, between the present and the past, creating some moments of true suspense. (One scene that took place in an enclosed I was puzzled while I was reading this book, and am still puzzled after finishing it. It's a story within a story: we watching a suspenseful tale unfold, set in a European castle, through the eyes of a narrator who happens to be a prisoner writing the story for a writing class. Jennifer Egan does some interesting \"technical\" things--moving between the first person and third person, between the present and the past, creating some moments of true suspense. (One scene that took place in an enclosed space was so vivid that I felt intensely claustrophobic and had to put the book down.) But the characters felt completely flat and one-dimensional to me. I can't even describe them; their attitudes and motivations seemed to change on every page. There is a bizarre twist at the end (I won't spoil it here), which was totally divorced from any possible reality, and the writing just stinks throughout its telling in the last pages. ...more Per questo romanzo di Jennifer Egan prendo a prestito una parola utilizzata da uno dei personaggi del libro per indicare che le aspettative sono state soddisfatte pienamente: elevazione. Infatti ho trovato tutti gli ingredienti per un romanzo divertente, curioso e intrigante di \"tradizione postmoderna\" : non ci si deve perci\u00f2 aspettare una trama mozzafiato da romanzo gotico, ma diversi piani di narrazione, con divagazioni, trovate divertenti che si intrecciano come in un gioco. Mi \u00e8 piaciuto, pa Per questo romanzo di Jennifer Egan prendo a prestito una parola utilizzata da uno dei personaggi del libro per indicare che le aspettative sono state soddisfatte pienamente: elevazione. Infatti ho trovato tutti gli ingredienti per un romanzo divertente, curioso e intrigante di \"tradizione postmoderna\" : non ci si deve perci\u00f2 aspettare una trama mozzafiato da romanzo gotico, ma diversi piani di narrazione, con divagazioni, trovate divertenti che si intrecciano come in un gioco. Mi \u00e8 piaciuto, parecchio. ...more I can't stop thinking about this book. Jennifer Egan is masterful at taking something (or sometimes a character) that's beautiful and forbidding and mysterious and slowly rendering it recognizably, imperfectly human. This book is particularly accomplished at just that. And the way she does it in two (actually three) parallel narratives reveals the shape of the over-arching metaphor in a particularly affecting way. I don't want to give anything away here, because the process of unfolding the myst I can't stop thinking about this book. Jennifer Egan is masterful at taking something (or sometimes a character) that's beautiful and forbidding and mysterious and slowly rendering it recognizably, imperfectly human. This book is particularly accomplished at just that. And the way she does it in two (actually three) parallel narratives reveals the shape of the over-arching metaphor in a particularly affecting way. I don't want to give anything away here, because the process of unfolding the mystery is as powerful as the mystery itself. But I'm a week out and I can't stop thinking about it. ...more A tightly written novel with intersecting narratives that both stimulated my imagination, entertained and transported me. I had this book in my head for quite a long time after reading it and plan on teaching it to my 201 class next semester. Sara also taught this book with much success, so I recommend it for that purpose, if you happen to teach Lit. I can see why the kids would eat this up, dive through it, think about it, engage with it, whathaveyou. It's a one sitting novel. I picked up my copy of this book in the convenience store next to our resort on Greek's party island, Ios. It jumped out at me, begging to be read, and since I'd heard great reviews of it on Amazon and it was high up on my TBR pile, I thought 'I'm on hols, the other novels can wait - why not?'. So I ignored the frustration welling in my heart at the sight of an 18 euro price tag for such a slimline paperback, and bought it. I didn't get to read it on the plane (too tired) and have only just finis I picked up my copy of this book in the convenience store next to our resort on Greek's party island, Ios. It jumped out at me, begging to be read, and since I'd heard great reviews of it on Amazon and it was high up on my TBR pile, I thought 'I'm on hols, the other novels can wait - why not?'. So I ignored the frustration welling in my heart at the sight of an 18 euro price tag for such a slimline paperback, and bought it. I didn't get to read it on the plane (too tired) and have only just finished it now, over two weeks after arriving back in Oz. And you know what? This whole thing is most perplexing. For a book that I was dying to read, I'm sitting here staring at the screen, and its becoming clear to me that I'm finding it intensely difficult to conjure up a review. So to kick me off in the right direction, I might try beginning this review from a slightly different angle, that of examining why I'm having so much trouble writing this review! There's a feeling there...oooh, almost lost it, but now I have a firmer grasp of it and I know exactly what it is now...it's a feeling of immense disappointment. Yes, that's it, immense disappointment. One more time, ladies and gents, for the people up the back: immense...disappointment. This emotion now threatens to consume me as I sit here but I shall press on. I don't know exactly what Jennifer was trying to do here - I'm confused and underwhelmed by the various story arcs that are going on in this novel and how they all intertwine. And I don't know how it represents what it purports itself to be, namely a 'gothic' novel. Instead it's a shambles of modern techno-lover Danny going out on a limb and visiting his cousin Howie in Howie's purchased 'gothic' castle free of the shackles of technology (and sanity). From the first day Danny feels unsettled, and soon enough strange things start to happen, and Danny is pulled like a magnet toward 'the Keep' and its chestful of secrets. At the same time, Ray, trapped in prison and an emotional prison inside that of his own choosing, empathises with the character of Danny in the narrative he is writing. 'The Keep' switches mainly between these two arcs, but I was so confused about what was happening and when that these paralleled events that should have felt like they had a connection really didn't and only served to confuse more. Furthermore, there is no sense of place in this novel. The surroundings are 'conjured' up with ease by the characters of the book, but I for one cannot picture any of the places that are so intrinsic to the apparent Gothic 'feel' of the novel. A prison is described as a prison, the castle as a sprawling castle with a white-haired 92 year-old baroness residing in the darkness of the Keep. The pool is described as a dark pool, sometimes filled with waves and sometimes clear. What the ****? Everything is so damn one-dimensional. My head was swimming, no, floundering in the emptiness of the writing. The characters shared much with the description of places - they were shallow. I had no empathy for any of them, but equally did not feel disgust, hatred, or dismay with any of their personal actions, reactions or interactions with each other. I similarly disliked the lack of dialogue punctuation - it was incredibly confusing to have 'thoughts' of a character as well as their speech out loud written in the same monotonal pattern. And the narrator changes constantly! Not just between Ray and Danny, but everyone! One minute it'll be Danny as 'I', the next it will be some secondary character taking on the role of 'I' , without even a page break! I won't even go into the third part of the book, which was so utterly confusing with an ending so anticlimactical as to emit a snore from my throat upon its last sentence. What are you trying to do to me, Jennifer Egan? Go back and write a novel that doesn't read like an inanely boring TV Pilot Episode script. Go back and write a novel that truly expresses all the detail one expects from a self purported 'Gothic' novel. And for the love of God, Jennifer, write at least half of the novel in a way that makes some sort of sense to the reader! *shudders* And that's that. One star for you, stupid, idiotic, lame 'The Keep'. Ugh. ...more OK. Let me preface this by saying that I read this book immediately after finishing \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d by Charles Dickens and \u201cAmericanah\u201d by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (which is.. OMG... amazing and if you haven\u2019t read it you must do so immediately!), so the fact is that ANY book that had the misfortune to be my next selection was going to suffer from comparison. I tried to keep that in mind when I was reading it. I really, really tried. Oh, another caveat: I also don\u2019t normally read \u2026 whatever OK. Let me preface this by saying that I read this book immediately after finishing \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d by Charles Dickens and \u201cAmericanah\u201d by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (which is.. OMG... amazing and if you haven\u2019t read it you must do so immediately!), so the fact is that ANY book that had the misfortune to be my next selection was going to suffer from comparison. I tried to keep that in mind when I was reading it. I really, really tried. Oh, another caveat: I also don\u2019t normally read \u2026 whatever this genre is. I don\u2019t like reading about sparkly vampires. Or witches. Or fairies. Or ghosts. I only watched the \u201cLord of the Rings\u201d movies under duress, and I still have not read the books. Is this called metafiction? Or magical realism? Paranormal fiction? Whatever it is, I walk past this aisle of the bookstore. Every. Single. Time. I am a fan of nonfiction--I like facts. I only read this because it was the selection for my book club, and I make an effort to read those so I can participate in the discussions. First off: I didn\u2019t like the writing. The dialogue immediately struck me as rather simplistic. And the language. Let's talk about the language. Now, I\u2019m not a prude by any means. I grew up with 4 brothers and I now live in a house of men (hubby and two sons). I\u2019ve heard pretty much any and every swear word that exists in the English language, and even some that probably do not. I don\u2019t usually even notice bad language, so for me to do so it must be rather excessive. I find the constant use of words like \u201cfucking\u201d to be incredibly careless on the part of the author. There are supposedly 1 million words in the English language\u2014why keep using that single one over and over? If it\u2019s for shock value, it\u2019s not working on me. I just think it\u2019s lazy. I didn\u2019t feel like the author did a good job of setting up the plot. It jumps right into the story (one of them, anyway) without really setting it up. This irritated me right away. The characters are not fully fleshed out and they seem more like caricatures of themselves. And the various plot points struck me as implausible, which didn\u2019t help. Also, I thought the writing was terribly inconsistent. Even after you find out that the stories are supposed to be intertwined, the whole thing feels off-kilter, like two novellas awkwardly jammed together into one. The segues are not well done. In too many places, it honestly read like this was one of the first drafts of the novel instead of the edited, finished product. And before it\u2019s argued that I didn\u2019t understand the book, let me say that, yes, I got it. The book is about power, confinement, knowledge and escape. All of the characters are imprisoned in one way or another, if not in a physical location (i.e. jail, a tunnel, a castle keep) then in a mental cage of their own making (i.e. paranoia, mental illness, addiction). Everyone has doors in their heads, and everyone is running from the worm. However. In the end, it was weird, it was irritating, it didn\u2019t appeal to me at all. I\u2019m off to find a good nonfiction book filled with facts and other real stuff to get my balance back. I have a biography of Carl Sagan on my nightstand that should do the trick. ...more The second I finished this book, the only way I could think of how to describe it is \"Bah, humbug.\" Let down. Disappointed. Why do I keep believing these \"Thriller! What a page turner!\" critic reviews? Lies, all lies. If I could give this 2.5 stars, I would. I'm going to be generous and bump it up to 3, since at least I wasn't extremely bored during my read. But I knew a few pages in when the word \"frigging\" was used to describe something that this was probably not the most literary book I'd be The second I finished this book, the only way I could think of how to describe it is \"Bah, humbug.\" Let down. Disappointed. Why do I keep believing these \"Thriller! What a page turner!\" critic reviews? Lies, all lies. If I could give this 2.5 stars, I would. I'm going to be generous and bump it up to 3, since at least I wasn't extremely bored during my read. But I knew a few pages in when the word \"frigging\" was used to describe something that this was probably not the most literary book I'd be picking up this December. Egan has some good ideas here, and her connections between the very distinct plotlines are quite creative. I admire her outline process. However, I couldn't have cared less about any of the characters, and I found them all to be too stereotypically predictable. Also, ***SPOILER***. Skip the next paragraph if you don't want to read a part of the plot. ...But WTF? Danny slept with a 98-year-old baroness? Please. This might have been the biggest cop-out of any story I have EVER read. Completely unbelievable, no matter how drunk he was. Also, Benjy was possibly the most annoying child I've ever encountered in a text. Shut the eff up. What kind of mother would take her children down into a torture chamber? I don't care if you think you're going to lose your husband. Ann had too much sense before she made that terrible decision, and as a reader I felt duped when she did that. Come on now, Jennifer Egan. Were you that desperate to create tension? ///End Spoiler. Anyway, I do not recommend this book. It was a quick, easy read, but I did not feel challenged or particularly moved by these characters' stories. If you want a prison story, which is what this ultimately turned out to be - another dupe from the publisher - go read A Million Little Pieces . That is a great story about a prisoner who is able to redeem himself, and whether James Frey made it all up, it at least is a fascinating tale that can help you grow as a reader and a person. This last reflection has made me realize that I will only be giving this book 2 stars, not 3 as I previously stated. It was only half the book of A Million Little Pieces, so it deserves half the rating I gave it. ...more There are two things an author can do that almost guarantee I will not finish reading her book. The first is to break standard prose conventions, especially if the intent is to showcase how 'edgy' or 'experimental' the author is. The second is when an omniscient narrator's voice intrudes on the flow of the story. Jennifer Egan does both of these things in THE KEEP, but what is remarkable - and the reason that I said \"almost guarantee\" rather than \"ensure\" - is I kept reading THE KEEP. In fact, d There are two things an author can do that almost guarantee I will not finish reading her book. The first is to break standard prose conventions, especially if the intent is to showcase how 'edgy' or 'experimental' the author is. The second is when an omniscient narrator's voice intrudes on the flow of the story. Jennifer Egan does both of these things in THE KEEP, but what is remarkable - and the reason that I said \"almost guarantee\" rather than \"ensure\" - is I kept reading THE KEEP. In fact, despite the eschewal of standard dialog punctuation and the almost dreamlike intrusion of the prison inmate's narrator's thoughts into the story about the renovation of a castle, I could not put down THE KEEP. I devoured the book, much as the characters devour savory dishes prepared by a mogul who wants to resurrect imagination from the yoke of instant entertainment and illusory connection provided by technology. Another non-traditional narrative tactic Egan employs is the blurring of two stories, such that it is difficult to tell which plot \"frames\" the other. Unlike HEART OF DARKNESS, where the frame is a clear bookend around the story of Krurtz's degradation, it is unclear whether the castle or the prison is primary. Egan masterfully holds the thread on the two parallel stories, tying them together in a satisfying and unexpected ending that defies any of the rules you might have thought you knew about fiction. Egan's craft is superb, and she shuns narrative conventions to deliver intense reader satisfaction. If you are looking for a book with an unusual premise told in a very unusual way, THE KEEP should be the next book you read. Hell, it should be the next book you read, period. You will be awed. ...more La lettura de La Fortezza \u00e8 stata una lenta agonia. Fino a circa met\u00e0 mi sono letteralmente forzata a leggerlo, un po' per sfida un po' nella speranza che prendesse il decollo dopo ore e ore di rullaggio. Dopo di che la narrazione da noiosa, prolissa, e inutilmente farcita di parolacce, ha cambiato (leggermente) registro al punto da convincermi ad arrivare sino ad un finale che avrebbe potuto riscattare l'intero romanzo. S\u00ec, avrebbe potuto... La narrazione e la scrittura sono affidate ad un dete La lettura de La Fortezza \u00e8 stata una lenta agonia. Fino a circa met\u00e0 mi sono letteralmente forzata a leggerlo, un po' per sfida un po' nella speranza che prendesse il decollo dopo ore e ore di rullaggio. Dopo di che la narrazione da noiosa, prolissa, e inutilmente farcita di parolacce, ha cambiato (leggermente) registro al punto da convincermi ad arrivare sino ad un finale che avrebbe potuto riscattare l'intero romanzo. S\u00ec, avrebbe potuto... La narrazione e la scrittura sono affidate ad un detenuto che sta seguendo un corso di scrittura in carcere e la cui vita si riveler\u00e0 legata a quella dei due cugini protagonisti. Nonostante il tentativo della Hegan di simulare quella che potrebbe essere la scrittura di un detenuto al suo primo incontro con la parola scritta, il risultato \u00e8 mediocre e poco credibile. Ha l'aria, inoltre, di essere un romanzo in cui l'autrice ha messo nel pentolone svariati personaggi e idee, alcune anche degni di nota (confine tra reale e virtuale, dipendenza dai dispositivi di comunicazione, insuccesso personale, potere, ecc.) ma la sensazione \u00e8 quella di trovarsi di fronte ad una bozza che avrebbe bisogno di grosse rifiniture. Forse il fatto di aver vinto un premio Pulitzer ha fatto chiudere un occhio all'editore. Salvo solamente una delle scene iniziali del libro (quello della grotta in cui due cugini abbandonano il terzo per scherzo). ...more I loved this! Gothic, meta, ghosts, weird, disturbing, what's not to like? Unfortunately, either I was too stupid or Egan didn't tie enough loose ends together to finish her meta-fiction, and literary thoughts. I gave it four stars because of the journey of the story and the delightful atmospherics (man, this book can CREEP you out!) but it ends either too soon, or chapters should have been added to end certain plots within plots within plots (too open-ended). However, WHAT a puzzle-box of a sta I loved this! Gothic, meta, ghosts, weird, disturbing, what's not to like? Unfortunately, either I was too stupid or Egan didn't tie enough loose ends together to finish her meta-fiction, and literary thoughts. I gave it four stars because of the journey of the story and the delightful atmospherics (man, this book can CREEP you out!) but it ends either too soon, or chapters should have been added to end certain plots within plots within plots (too open-ended). However, WHAT a puzzle-box of a start and middle! I think this would be an EXCELLENT book for writer folks to bounce off of! This is such a playful book, it has caused me to completely reassess the only other book of Egan's that I read. If she is in reality such a playful, cynical but loving, meta-fictional writer, I like her much better. But damn! Why didn't she cook this book a little more thoroughly? ...more<---C>Jennifer Egan</---C>", "Title": "The Keep"},
