{"Comments": "This book was so much better than Dark Currents.<---F> I\u2019m giving **** </---F>. In fact, so far it was the best in the series. I feel like the action was more directed and had purpose. There was an exciting dynamic between the characters. One character decides to kill the other, while two others start to care for each other. This conflict,<---M> along with the mystery</---M>, gave this book a lot more suspense, and definitely gave the characters more depth. The Emperor\u2019s Edge are slowly becoming an elite team of professi This book was so much better than Dark Currents. I\u2019m giving **** \u00bd. In fact, so far it was the best in the series. I feel like the action was more directed and had purpose. There was an exciting dynamic between the characters. One character decides to kill the other, while two others start to care for each other. This conflict, along with the mystery, gave this book a lot more suspense, and definitely gave the characters more depth. The Emperor\u2019s Edge are slowly becoming an elite team of professionals and they are becoming good friends. It was very satisfying to read. One of my favorite things about this series is the characters. I\u2019ve grown so fond of all of them. Each and every one of them teaches something new to the group. Each one of them is important to their success. I long to get into everybody\u2019s POV. I always think the most mysterious is probably Sicarius, but then again I know so little about Akstyr. I\u2019m curious to find out both of their backgrounds. While each character is an archetype, they are slowly developing more and more of their own personalities, and I realized after this series is over, I will actually miss them. Out of all the characters though, Amaranthe is my fav! She's such a great female character. I see her as a true leader, the fabric that holds The Emperor\u2019s Edge together. I love how\u2019s she\u2019s got a soft touch, always approaching everything with tact, instead of bashing people over the head. She\u2019d rather talk her way out of a bad situation instead of fight, and with slew of badass Buffy wannabes out there in the fiction world, I think she\u2019s wonderfully refreshing. Amaranthe shows that a woman doesn\u2019t have to act like a pain-in-the ass Alpha douche to be a true leader. I also love how the guys are so protective over her and treat her like family. They follow her because they admire her, not because they want get into her pants, and they know that if any one of them gets into trouble, she do everything she can to get them out. It\u2019s so rare to have a female in a position like this. I\u2019ve read comments that say she\u2019s a little bit Mary Sue, and maybe their right. She does have some unreal kind of luck. But they are several things about her that don\u2019t make her a Mary Sure. For starters, she doesn\u2019t have some special power, she\u2019s not the fairest of them all, she does make mistakes and she doesn\u2019t always have the right answer. In fact, she relies on her elite team to help her out. If it weren\u2019t for the others, Amaranthe would fail, and she knows this. Yet if it weren\u2019t for her, there would be no team. I think she\u2019s the bomb! Anyhoo, this story has a crazy ass ending involving a giant squid, a bunch of evil scientists, and an underground water city. It was a lot of fun, in all. I really hope that someday they make this series into a graphic novel because it would be so awesome to see these books drawn out. This was a buddy read with Jeannette! I\u2019m definitely reading book 4. ...more So even though it took me 3 1/2 months to finish this one it is probably the my favorite yet. For reasons ... Okay, maybe just one reason. Sicarius. \"You're the only person who's ever wanted to give me happiness...\" Athletes in what's equivalent to the Olympics are disappearing. Amaranthe and the gang are on the case. Blah Blah Blah Basilard has vowed to avenge the wrongs done to his kingdom. Blah Maldynado tries to set Amaranthe up with Lord Mancrest (Deret). Not once, but TWICE he tries to turn her So even though it took me 3 1/2 months to finish this one it is probably the my favorite yet. For reasons ... Okay, maybe just one reason. Sicarius. \"You're the only person who's ever wanted to give me happiness...\" Athletes in what's equivalent to the Olympics are disappearing. Amaranthe and the gang are on the case. Blah Blah Blah Basilard has vowed to avenge the wrongs done to his kingdom. Blah Maldynado tries to set Amaranthe up with Lord Mancrest (Deret). Not once, but TWICE he tries to turn her over to enforcers. Some more blahs, Basilard gets choosen as the ringer for the competition, and both he and Sicarius end up kidnapped due to their superior physical prowess. Even more blahs, Amaranthe and the remaining gang are to the rescue. There's some more plot stuff here, Akstyr continues to improve is magical abilities. I'm beginning to worry about him. Throw in some more blahs (and some diving and sea monsters), Sicarius runs around naked. Sicarius runs around naked. Sicarius runs around NAKED!!!!!!!! After that there were some other words but who really cares at this point? I just want to know is he blonde all over?? Everyone is safe and sound. Basilard decides Amaranthe will be upset with his revenge plans so he decides ixnay on the executionay. Oh, and last but not least, Amaranthe tries for a third \"date\" with Deret (he apparently really, really wants a date at this point). EXCEPT.... Amaranthe gave leave to Sicarius to take the night off to do whatever it is he wants to do so.... And it is absolutely worth the wait. So yeah, I don't think Amaranthe will be going on any more dates with Deret. Have I mentioned how much I love Sicarius? Yeah. I kind of do. And when I say \"kind of\" I mean I would have his little blonde headed assassin babies. ...more OMG! What a way to spend the last day! Lindsay, you absolutely amaze me with how much I love all your books, but <+++>Deadly Games</+++> was incredible! If I was slightly in love with Sicarius in the last two books, I am totally done for now! The incredible way he is portrayed, with his lack of emoting makes me want to simultaniously shake him and hug him for making me smirk, then smile, then grin like an idiot. I can honestly say I really wish he was real, I would love to see that stoney-faced silent star OMG! What a way to spend the last day! Lindsay, you absolutely amaze me with how much I love all your books, but <+++>Deadly Games</+++> was incredible! If I was slightly in love with Sicarius in the last two books, I am totally done for now! The incredible way he is portrayed, with his lack of emoting makes me want to simultaniously shake him and hug him for making me smirk, then smile, then grin like an idiot. I can honestly say I really wish he was real, I would love to see that stoney-faced silent stare and revel in the shudders that would likely race up my spine. Amaranthe, well, some of the other reviews of this tale sum her up brilliantly. She is the ever present glue for this motley group of men. What I especially like is her ability to think quickly on her feet, and the fact that the guys all love (and sometimes roll their eyes at) that about her. I do have one thing to say about the choice of ending for this one though. I hate that I now have to wait to find out what happens, but WOW! What a way to end this fantastic story! Lindsay, you should be most proud of this one! Thank you for the best yet! To those reading the review, buy this! Buy all of the Emperor's Edge series! Buy everything by <---A>Lindsay Buroker</---A>, you will not be disappointed! ...more I usually stray away from stories about the fairer sex, perhaps because they tend to be too fair to digest. I wasn't always this way, and can in fact vividly remember gobbling upon stories about fairy queens and wicked witches, especially Enid Blyton's Blue, Yellow and Red fairy books, Malory Towers and what not. However, as things often come to pass, and then pass away- my appetite for bright and beautiful worlds faded- and I latched onto a darker and grimmer reality. Now, to say that female aut I usually stray away from stories about the fairer sex, perhaps because they tend to be too fair to digest. I wasn't always this way, and can in fact vividly remember gobbling upon stories about fairy queens and wicked witches, especially Enid Blyton's Blue, Yellow and Red fairy books, Malory Towers and what not. However, as things often come to pass, and then pass away- my appetite for bright and beautiful worlds faded- and I latched onto a darker and grimmer reality. Now, to say that female authors cannot sculpt a gritty narrative would be quite blasphemous- and more so since I have come to respect Robin Hobb's penmanship. I have, though, often noticed that books that have female protagonists usually border on romantic notes, hardly, if ever dipping a toe in the realm of gore and violence. Now, there's Amarenthe, and she ostensibly follows the same trend of a moral high ground. She nags in the manner of a self righteous clergyman and she blushes on the smallest mention of human reproductive organs. But I love her. As a matter of fact, I would have no qualms against cuddling her, sweaty or not- she's the rainbow hued yarn ball wet-dream of kittens, or perhaps a nightmare of little cats littering the house. I have also come to appreciate how Lindsay Buroker maintains a consistency of character. I find it oddly unnerving to encounter a hardcore uncaring (asshole) assassin who turns into a candy licking doll lover in about 25 pages of the goddess-who-touched-his-heart. It isn't just one book that is infected with this disease- not at all, I had to abandon trillions of tomes in mid passage because of spontaneous personality defection of the protagonist. Sicarius, in a way, reminds me of Lan (WOT) with his, let us say, economy of expression. Although, Lindsay has described the man in a manner distinct enough to credit him a unique personality. His feelings towards Amaranthe grow gradually as opposed to the switch-flippery I have come to detest. It maintains that exoticism in their relationship which I, personally, have come to relish. Instead of popping a saccharine pill that is probably going to ruin your taste- Lindsay has masterfully prepared a dish that provides a lingering taste of sweetness. Another wonderful jewel I discovered in Amaranthe's world is the fact that people don't turn into gross idiots when trapped in impossible situations, waiting for others to rescue them. Rather, they show initiative and a number of times extricate themselves out of self created blunders- which, to me, is the mature way of handling a story. I don't wish to be abrupt, but well, I have to start with the next book. ...more Genre: high fantasy with a touch of steam, a dash of magic and the tiniest sprinkle of romance I'm not sure I can accurately describe how much I love this series. Lindsay Buroker nails it again in the third instalment. This edition is easily as cinematic as the previous two. You could transcribe it word for word onto the big screen and hold me riveted. These characters continue to grow and endear themselves to me. Funnily enough, the character that struck me as the most changed was Maldynado. He Genre: high fantasy with a touch of steam, a dash of magic and the tiniest sprinkle of romance I'm not sure I can accurately describe how much I love this series. Lindsay Buroker nails it again in the third instalment. This edition is easily as cinematic as the previous two. You could transcribe it word for word onto the big screen and hold me riveted. These characters continue to grow and endear themselves to me. Funnily enough, the character that struck me as the most changed was Maldynado. He really has become a rather loyal fellow who looks out for... well, Amaranthe, but there were several \"Aww, the big softie\" moments. I think he is acting more and more like her big brother (albeit one that doesn't get possessive or expect her to be chaste - we can leave that to Sicarius). Akstyr worries me. He is useful, but I don't think he has formed the type of bonds for Amaranthe as the others have. She is the glue that holds them together, and he isn't quite as attached. I think when we get his point of view, we might see things differently, but I am expecting a surprise from him. Amaranthe continues to be a lady to admire. She doesn't have to resort to seduction or lies to convince people to join her cause. Her humanity and passion do that. But I see a few cracks of doubt appearing here and there, which should open some interesting discussions going forward. I'd actually like to see how Sicarius might deal with her moments of doubt. She's always kept such a positive face for him. Especially since he is depending on her planning to bring him... well, potentially two rewards now. Basilard was 100% correct. Amaranthe humanises Sicarius. But then, she brings the best out in each member of that team. I'm glad Basilard did not go through with his plan. That epilogue was brilliant (as was the scene preceding it, but I truly do not want to spoil it for everyone who SHOULD be reading this book). What a brilliant tease for the next chapter in this series, which I hope I won't hound the author for too much in the coming months. Bottom line: Awesome storytelling. Engaging and unique characters. Flawless eBook. On my top ten list of books I've read in 2011 (which also includes the other two). Must read. ...more I'll be honest and say what i've read of this book just wasn't as good as what i've read of the other books in the series. I know once i get into it it'll be better, but now just isn't the time. Thoroughly enjoyed this next installment in the adventures of the Emperor's Edge, Amaranthe's well-meant team of do-gooders who still manage to leave mayhem and disaster in their wake. The central romance progresses with delicious slowness (I would have so hated insta-love begetting insta-change); probably my only complaint would be that the secondary character chosen for this one actually reveals no more than we knew already. But that won't stop me from getting the next! Still trying to stop my heart racing that fast. That was so intense !! Non stop action and the battle/s on...er...inside the lake was/were something...something...ah, see for yourself. I don't know what to say really. I just want to keep reading because that message at the end of the book...How is the team going to respond to that ? But Amaranthe likes a good challenge, doesn't she ? WE GOT A KISS!!! I'm going to attempt to make this a more analytical review, instead of just gushing about the characters. But I can't promise anything... Like the previous books in the series, I found the plot to be kind of dull. And because the characters are so interesting and function so well together, as a reader, you have higher expectations for the story. In this installment, Ameranthe and her men are investigating the disappearance of some elite athletes. It takes quite some time to piece together what it I'm going to attempt to make this a more analytical review, instead of just gushing about the characters. But I can't promise anything... Like the previous books in the series, I found the plot to be kind of dull. And because the characters are so interesting and function so well together, as a reader, you have higher expectations for the story. In this installment, Ameranthe and her men are investigating the disappearance of some elite athletes. It takes quite some time to piece together what it is happening, and at the end of it all, you just get a very simplistic explanation that doesn't even seem to be worth all the effort put into the investigation. I understand that this particular investigation is still part of a 'bigger picture' but there is just some sort of spark missing with the actual storyline. That being said, the plot for this book is still far better than the plots for the two previous ones. But there is definitely still room for improvement. Sicarius is also absent for a decent chunk of the book. I expected to hate that, but surprisingly, it worked out for me. Especially because of WHY he was gone ( (view spoiler) [he got captured because he didn't want to come back to Ameranthe without information and so he wasn't as careful as he usually is (hide spoiler) ] ). It gave the author time to play with the dynamic of the group and I really enjoyed that. Sicarius is also going through some personal improvements, which is great! Thanks to Ameranthe and the rest of the boys, he even is starting to develop a sense of humor :P. AND THAT ENDING. I have no words. It was just fabulous. ...more Fast becoming my favourite set of outlaws, this time a series of kidnappings catches the attention of the emperor's edge. Sicarius is as difficult to read as ever, though there are flashes of humour. Amaranthe continues to keep the group together. It's Basilard's turn to be the main focus of the story as he struggles with some revelations from Dark currents, the previous book. It does help to read the books in order as they follow on from each other. How do you it Ms. Buroker? This series just keep getting better with each volume! You even added a kraken to the plot! And the last chapter, OMG. That just made me SWOON!! I knew there was some fire smoldering deep inside Sicarius's icy exterior. And <---C>Amaranthe Lokdon</---C> is one of the BEST heroines I've ever come across! The action is non-stop, but the strength of Deadly Games and the rest of the books is that it's character-driven. I LOVE IT! Here are the reasons why I'm loving this series: - when I was a kid, I liked watching the A-Team; - [reason #2] - [reason #3] - [reason #4] - \u2026 - \u2026 - I LOVED the A-Team. Also: Also: Maldynado reminds me of Face. This series is getting better and better! All the good has been kept and the plot deepens more and more! The mane characters grow and become more complex, but always very, very enjoyable! I wish I had discovered this series before: it's soooooo good! \"You're the only one whose ever wanted to bring me happiness...\" Oh my stars. I can't review this properly because those last 15 pages got me like: I'M JUST SO HAPPY I CAN'T STOP SMILING. Addictive. Three cuz that ending. Dude. Originally published at Reading Reality Deadly Games gets off to a slightly slower start than the first two books in the Emperor\u2019s Edge series (see my reviews of The Emperor's Edge and Dark Currents ) but it\u2019s the same type of slowly as those last few feet of clanking you hear on a roller coaster just before it gets dragged over the top of the first, highest peak on its track and goes careening down the other side in near-freefall. Once this story gets going, the stomach-clenching, twisting and tur Originally published at Reading Reality Deadly Games gets off to a slightly slower start than the first two books in the Emperor\u2019s Edge series (see my reviews of The Emperor's Edge and Dark Currents ) but it\u2019s the same type of slowly as those last few feet of clanking you hear on a roller coaster just before it gets dragged over the top of the first, highest peak on its track and goes careening down the other side in near-freefall. Once this story gets going, the stomach-clenching, twisting and turning action never stops. The reader can also feel the places where the story kind of \u201cbends\u201d onto a slightly different path, and the whole fantastic construction of the series shifts from just being a glorious adventure to something more serious and, well, deadly. In the background, you see the long game being played. Amaranthe and her band may be pawns on someone else\u2019s chessboard. We won\u2019t know until the future books play themselves out. But in this story, there is an event like the Olympics, and people are being kidnapped. Athletes who otherwise have nothing in common besides the games are turning up missing. Amaranthe gets involved because it\u2019s the right thing to do, not because there\u2019s a job in it. Speaking of games, someone is impersonating Sicarius, and drawing what you would think would be life-limiting attention from the Enforcers. Oh, and Maldynado keeps trying to set Amaranthe up on a blind date with one of his warrior-caste friends. Not only is Amaranthe embarrassed by this matchmaking assistance, but her \u201cdate\u201d keeps trying to get her arrested. There are a couple of bright spots that come out of this particular charade. The question, as usual, is whether Amaranthe will live long enough to enjoy them. Escape Rating A-: This installment in the series takes a bit to really get going, possibly because it starts while the gang is on vacation, so there\u2019s a flavor of \u201cgetting the band back together\u201d after downtime. Also, it felt like more of the action than normal took place with the group split into different factions, and the narrative had to switch back and forth. I think this was intended as Basilard\u2019s story, or it felt that way. His issues with his past are the ones that get resolved in this book, even though the long arc is Amaranthe and Sicarius\u2019 story. The focus this time is on Amaranthe and Sicarius strangely developing relationship; on Basilard\u2019s acceptance, or lack thereof, of the things he had to do to survive; and on Maldynado\u2019s continuing to be Maldynado. Mal may also be growing up a bit, although that\u2019s a really long journey. It\u2019s probably longer than Amaranthe and Sicarius getting to the point of having a relationship, and that\u2019s saying something! Books and Akstyr take a backseat in this book, and that\u2019s okay. This story has a lot to juggle without keeping all of them in front all the time. There was no easy solution this time. They solved the \u201ccase\u201d, but found as many questions as they did answers. The ending left me chomping at the bit to start the next book, Conspiracy . I have a nasty feeling that they will have more than one conspiracy to deal with. Their luck just seems to run that way. Bad. Awful for them, but compelling to read. ...more This is the third of the \u2018Emperor\u2019s Edge\u2019 series, featuring former enforcer (cop) Amaranthe and her motley band of outlaws cum undercover agents - Sicarius the assassin, Maldynado the ladies\u2019 man, Books the scholar, Akstyr the learner mage and Basilard the former slave wrestler. The steampunk setting is, as always, a nicely drawn backdrop and convenient plot device, so that one of the events in the games of the title is the clank race, where contestants compete on a mechanical (and rather unplea This is the third of the \u2018Emperor\u2019s Edge\u2019 series, featuring former enforcer (cop) Amaranthe and her motley band of outlaws cum undercover agents - Sicarius the assassin, Maldynado the ladies\u2019 man, Books the scholar, Akstyr the learner mage and Basilard the former slave wrestler. The steampunk setting is, as always, a nicely drawn backdrop and convenient plot device, so that one of the events in the games of the title is the clank race, where contestants compete on a mechanical (and rather unpleasant) obstacle course. As usual, there\u2019s a mysterious series of events for the team to investigate in the hope of ingratiating themselves with the young emperor, and restoring themselves to respectability. There are also some ongoing backstories, and the author is brilliant at reminding the reader of past details at just the right moment, and without it ever feeling contrived. If only all authors were so skilled. This is a million miles from the gritty realism end of fantasy. The characters are just the right side of caricature, and the plot - well, it really doesn\u2019t matter. It rolls along nicely, a jolly adventure that is always one wobbly step away from disaster but never quite teeters over the brink. It\u2019s predictable in the sense that the eventual outcome is never in any real doubt, but there\u2019s a huge tangle of twists and turns along the way, most emanating from the fertile (if not always sensible) imagination of Amaranthe. You\u2019ve got to love a character who never fails to have a hairbrained idea, however dire the circumstances. There are moments when it\u2019s tempting to pause and think - how on earth did they get into this situation? And how can they possibly get out of it? There are times, too, when it all got a little bit over the top. The amount of punishment the characters manage to take, the number of armed and/or magic-wielding opponents they tackle simultaneously, and the sheer number of problems they encounter, all of it becomes just a little too cartoonish sometimes. And then there\u2019s another brilliant bit of humour, and I just don\u2019t care. In the end, it\u2019s the characters who matter, and the funny, tetchy and even (occasionally) affectionate moments between them that make these books so wonderful. Even Sicarius the ice-cold assassin gets some bonding with Basilard, and... and... no, it can\u2019t be... is that a romantic interlude with Amaranthe? Well, sort of, maybe. For anyone looking for a light read, with plenty of action and huge dollops of witty banter between the characters, this fits the bill beautifully. These books are just so entertaining, it\u2019s all too easy to think - just another chapter, and then another, and perhaps just one more... The book equivalent of a box of chocolates. Lovely stuff. Four stars. ...more Fantasy Review Barn Say one thing about the Emperor Edge series, it is highly consistent. Three books in and I know exactly what to expect from each book at this point. I know that I will be very entertained by enjoyable banter between entertaining characters. I know that main character Amaranthe Lokdon will come up with the craziest, most implausible plan imaginable, her crew will go with it, it will fail, and quick thinking from her and her crew will save the day. And to top it off, I know when Fantasy Review Barn Say one thing about the Emperor Edge series, it is highly consistent. Three books in and I know exactly what to expect from each book at this point. I know that I will be very entertained by enjoyable banter between entertaining characters. I know that main character Amaranthe Lokdon will come up with the craziest, most implausible plan imaginable, her crew will go with it, it will fail, and quick thinking from her and her crew will save the day. And to top it off, I know when it is over I will immediately go to Amazon and book mark the next book, then try to talk myself out of buying right away\u2026It will be there later man, have some control! This time around Lokdon discovers that athletes are disappearing from some Olympic-like event before it even starts. Hey, our crew is in great shape! Let\u2019s enter Basilard into an event against people who have trained their whole life. This way we have an insider AND a chance to speak to the Emperor at the end. It is fool proof! Following a patter in the series the plan falls apart, a couple teammates get kidnapped, and things spiral farther out of control. I think even the characters are starting to realize they live in a slightly silly land, saying things like \u201cyou have a tendency to wander into the enemy camp to chat with the head villain.\u201d The magic is starting to get a bit powerful; it is getting harder to understand how the Empire is so powerful when it is willfully ignorant of such a powerful force. And I really am not buying how Lokdon is feeding her people working as mercenaries with such high standards. But those area all minor squabbles. Fans of the series get more of what they want. These books still move at lightning speed; walking the line very well by showing a lot of action without getting bogged down by repetitive details. And the characters continue to.. not grow.. but do all the things that made them so endearing in the first place. Maldynado alone makes the book a great buy, Sicarius shows a little personality behind his too perfect cool exterior, and Lokdon shows both charm and wit. Even Akstyr shows some usefulness for the first time. Still not books for everyone, but still just right for me when I want something light. Three books down and I only want to read some more. 4 stars. One more way these books have stayed consistent. ...more The author raises the bar in her series of alt-steampunk urban fantasy. A third book in series is a great place to examine the mix, make tweaks, expand characterization, and generally challenge the story direction. Here Lindsay Buroker does exactly that and then some. I admire her writing for its strong foundation of character driven story. Despite the odd assembly of novice anti-heroes (short recap: a traitorous policewoman, an alcoholic professor, a lazy aristocrat, an emotionless assassin, a mu The author raises the bar in her series of alt-steampunk urban fantasy. A third book in series is a great place to examine the mix, make tweaks, expand characterization, and generally challenge the story direction. Here Lindsay Buroker does exactly that and then some. I admire her writing for its strong foundation of character driven story. Despite the odd assembly of novice anti-heroes (short recap: a traitorous policewoman, an alcoholic professor, a lazy aristocrat, an emotionless assassin, a mute arena killer, and a rebellious ex-gang psychic) this group of outcasts is starting to find a purpose and high level of teamwork. In point of fact, the longer the group follows Amaranthe, the ex-policewoman, the more of their negative baggage they are shedding. The professor stops drinking. The aristocrat sees his skills worthwhile. The assassin reveals his silent courage and loyalty. The arena warrior is a noble pacifist. The ex-ganger is actually a snotty arrogant little teen who....oh well, things take time, don't they? And that's the other side of craft in this series. The plot moves faster than a speeding steam hauler but the character reveals are slow and beautiful to watch. This plot is multi-threaded and slippery. There is never time to identify a client and there is no gain in how far the group sticks its collective neck out this time. So we gets lots of great character bits instead. It works (even if I miss the strong story bits, the payoff is pretty good.) The villains revealed are even nastier than some our Heroes have already dealt with. Here again, we see 'mental science' (magic) producing some very scary and prodigious threats. We see magic, and magicians working in concert, able to negate Empire soldiers handily and take down the best trained people. The question remains in my mind: will magic reveals in this series quickly overtake what the heroes can do to balance evil magic against their own wits and courage? ...more The best in the series so far and so much better than the last instalment, Dark Currents . I love the way this series is character-driven. Here, Lindsay Buroker takes another step in character development by splitting our favourite team of outlaws in two, each with a separate mission. It gives a whole new perspective to the group dynamics with Amaranthe leading half of the team and Sicarius leading the rest. The characters really evolve from one book to the next. The way they interact and relate The best in the series so far and so much better than the last instalment, Dark Currents . I love the way this series is character-driven. Here, Lindsay Buroker takes another step in character development by splitting our favourite team of outlaws in two, each with a separate mission. It gives a whole new perspective to the group dynamics with Amaranthe leading half of the team and Sicarius leading the rest. The characters really evolve from one book to the next. The way they interact and relate to each other changes, which is nice. You can actually see them growing closer together and forming tighter bonds. I\u2019m still having my doubts about Askyr though. I can\u2019t get myself to really like him and he is definitely my least favourite character in the series. This might change in the next instalments, who knows? Amaranthe is such a kick-ass heroine; I love her and her uncanny ability to blow things up! She always comes up with the craziest of plans, never gives up and has a great sense of humour. And boy is she patient with Sicarius! Overall I found that the book was better written and much better plotted than the previous instalments. You can really see a general storyline appearing and developing for the series, which is nice. The plot thickens and I can\u2019t wait to get my hands on Conspiracy ! ...more Actual rating 3.5 stars. The following review was originally posted on my book blog The Book Challengers. Our fun team is back to solving mysteries! This time round it's with a new twist as our favourite assassin disappears quite early in the story as he is helping Amaranthe with finding new clues. The team is kind of lost without him, but to everyone's delight they do come out of eventually. But if I do say so myself, it would have been hell of a lot easier with Sicarius with them all the time. T Actual rating 3.5 stars. The following review was originally posted on my book blog The Book Challengers. Our fun team is back to solving mysteries! This time round it's with a new twist as our favourite assassin disappears quite early in the story as he is helping Amaranthe with finding new clues. The team is kind of lost without him, but to everyone's delight they do come out of eventually. But if I do say so myself, it would have been hell of a lot easier with Sicarius with them all the time. The characters are still fun to read about. Their banter is guaranteed to make you chuckle at times even if the mystery solving part does come together a bit too easily (again). Especially if our heroine Amaranthe is so keen on finding trouble and it finding her. While the first book gave us the second POV with emperor Sespian, the second one with Books, then this one is the most interesting with our pacifist-turned-slave-turned-gladiator-of-sorts Bas. Due to the fact that his vocal cords were damaged sometime during his years as a slave he is one of the most difficult to understand characters as he cannot express himself so well as others. Although I admit I'm quite eager about discovering the inside of Akstyr's or Maldynado's or Sicarius' head (er... thoughts) as well. And I'm falling more and more for Sicarius without even having seen a glimpse into his head! On to the next one! ...more Finally some bonding between our much loved and very dysfunctional family as we get to find out in this third installment of The Emperor's Edge series. This book is from Basilard's POV and Buroker did a fantastic job at portraying him and his identity as a foreign man trying to find his place in another land. Unfortunately, this dual-identity forces him to form a dangerous plan with the team's most fickle, Akstyr. From there, the readers are pushed to pick sides with either Basilard- the calm, Finally some bonding between our much loved and very dysfunctional family as we get to find out in this third installment of The Emperor's Edge series. This book is from Basilard's POV and Buroker did a fantastic job at portraying him and his identity as a foreign man trying to find his place in another land. Unfortunately, this dual-identity forces him to form a dangerous plan with the team's most fickle, Akstyr. From there, the readers are pushed to pick sides with either Basilard- the calm, serene, former ring-fighter or Sicarius- notorious assassin with apparently no conscience. This becomes impossible to do as the series progresses and the love for each of Buroker's characters begin to hold a distinct place. However, as the plot reaches the climax, everything is topsy-turvy and suddenly Basilard is forced to work with the very man he is supposed to hate. Buroker flawlessly seams the relationship between the two men into what I see as a precious bromance. *cries happy tears* All in all, a fantastic addition to the series. ...more I love,love, love this series. Only thing wrong is I now have to wait months for the next book. This series is so entertaining. I smiled the whole way through this book. I smiled when I bought it (in anticipation) I smiled on the train while reading it, in the office (when thinking about it) and reading it at the restaurant waiting for my lunch date (so glad they were late!) I love how Amaranthe can talk people into doing whatever she wants, I love how Sicarius is gradually developing a sense of I love,love, love this series. Only thing wrong is I now have to wait months for the next book. This series is so entertaining. I smiled the whole way through this book. I smiled when I bought it (in anticipation) I smiled on the train while reading it, in the office (when thinking about it) and reading it at the restaurant waiting for my lunch date (so glad they were late!) I love how Amaranthe can talk people into doing whatever she wants, I love how Sicarius is gradually developing a sense of humor, I love how Amaranthe has whole conversations with Sicarius with his only involvement being the twitch of the brow. I love the pace of the series, Lindasy Buroker times the progression of the relationship perfectly with a little more in each book. And just as I was wondering what was going on with Sespian - there he is at the end of the book. ...more Another great installment in the Emperor's Edge series! Amaranthe and team work on discovering the mystery of who is killing star athletes. For me the delicious dialogue and tension between Amaranthe and Sicarius is the main attraction. However I love the fact that all the supporting characters get plently of page time and are fully fleshed out. Maldynado is a hoot. The plot moves quickly, the writing is crisp and the book is wonderful! I can't wait for the next installment- it woud be great to get Another great installment in the Emperor's Edge series! Amaranthe and team work on discovering the mystery of who is killing star athletes. For me the delicious dialogue and tension between Amaranthe and Sicarius is the main attraction. However I love the fact that all the supporting characters get plently of page time and are fully fleshed out. Maldynado is a hoot. The plot moves quickly, the writing is crisp and the book is wonderful! I can't wait for the next installment- it woud be great to get scenes with Sespian, Sicarius and Amaranthe together. Although the adventures are fun, the real draw is the interpersonal relationships. ...more As part of my ongoing strike as to re read all of the series this book was, obviously, the next in line. And, as always, the author, Lindsay Buroker, made a compelling, exciting humorous and full of adventures for our favorite protecting-the-empire gang, lead by former enforcer Amaranthe. But this novel features an important development: the hint of a relationship is blooming and you really want to know if it will be worth all of the waiting (Spoiler alert: it will melt your heart in the process). As part of my ongoing strike as to re read all of the series this book was, obviously, the next in line. And, as always, the author, Lindsay Buroker, made a compelling, exciting humorous and full of adventures for our favorite protecting-the-empire gang, lead by former enforcer Amaranthe. But this novel features an important development: the hint of a relationship is blooming and you really want to know if it will be worth all of the waiting (Spoiler alert: it will melt your heart in the process). Also, I assure you it will never feel rush. ...more I looked at my stack of library books, and all the books on my Kindle, and thought, \"What will be reliably enjoyable?\" The answer, of course, was the next Emperor's Edge book. And I was right. More action, more clever dialogue, more frantic improvisation by Amaranthe passed off as risky plans. More character development, too, more development of some of the relationships between the characters, and a little more development of the world. A nice lead-in to the next book right at the end, too. I kee I looked at my stack of library books, and all the books on my Kindle, and thought, \"What will be reliably enjoyable?\" The answer, of course, was the next Emperor's Edge book. And I was right. More action, more clever dialogue, more frantic improvisation by Amaranthe passed off as risky plans. More character development, too, more development of some of the relationships between the characters, and a little more development of the world. A nice lead-in to the next book right at the end, too. I keep recommending these to people because they're just so very well done. ...more This is just a very entertaining series for me! Clearly, as I keep putting aside my other reading to read another one of these! This episode shows us another character's story and the struggles he is having....Books was highlighted in the second book and Basilard in this one. I continue to enjoy these characters and their adventures...and sense of \"team.\" I especially love the brooding and sober and undemonstrative Sicarius and LOVED the ending of this one!!! Will I be able to hold off on the ne This is just a very entertaining series for me! Clearly, as I keep putting aside my other reading to read another one of these! This episode shows us another character's story and the struggles he is having....Books was highlighted in the second book and Basilard in this one. I continue to enjoy these characters and their adventures...and sense of \"team.\" I especially love the brooding and sober and undemonstrative Sicarius and LOVED the ending of this one!!! Will I be able to hold off on the next one, or will I throw my scheduled reading to the curb!!!! ...more This author has a knack for making a mad dash in the final 30% I was more or less ambling around, reading a few pages here and there, but not really been glued to the pages... And then. She did it again. I raced through the last third of this - it had all the good stuff again: adventure, tension, mayhem, monsters and humor. And so I will continue with this series. At least I got a little, teeny, tiny bit of romance in this installment :-)", "Title": "Deadly Games"},
