{"Comments": "Can't decide which cover I like best! This was an okay story, but I didn\u2019t like it as much as Storm Glass. <---C>Opal</---C> did try to make the best of her abilities in this book, but she also made some mistakes. I felt quite sorry for her every time she got caught out or ended up walking straight into a trap, but she also seemed quite powerless at points. The storyline in this was about Opal making glass animals again, trying to get Ulrick and Devlen swapped back to their correct bodies, something going on wi Can't decide which cover I like best! This was an okay story, but I didn\u2019t like it as much as Storm Glass. Opal did try to make the best of her abilities in this book, but she also made some mistakes. I felt quite sorry for her every time she got caught out or ended up walking straight into a trap, but she also seemed quite powerless at points. The storyline in this was about Opal making glass animals again, trying to get Ulrick and Devlen swapped back to their correct bodies, something going on with some weird magical sea glass, as well as people trying to kill Opal. There was a little bit of romance between Kade and Opal, but not a lot. The ending to this was quite surprising, and left Opal in a very strange position. I have no idea where the third book will go from here.<---F> 6 out of 10 </---F>...more Opal's dumb as a doornail routine annoys me. But the plot surrounding her intrigues me. Thus I will push on. Wondering how this semi- love triangle will end. Now that the Council have found out about Opal's ability to steal other magician's powers they immediately see her as a threat. No matter how much she has done for them in the past it is all worth nothing now and they now want her under house arrest inside the Citadel where they can monitor her activities and decide what to do with her. The worst thing of all is that nobody believes her when she tells them that Devlen and Ulrick have swapped bodies so now Devlen has free reign of the Citadel and Now that the Council have found out about Opal's ability to steal other magician's powers they immediately see her as a threat. No matter how much she has done for them in the past it is all worth nothing now and they now want her under house arrest inside the Citadel where they can monitor her activities and decide what to do with her. The worst thing of all is that nobody believes her when she tells them that Devlen and Ulrick have swapped bodies so now Devlen has free reign of the Citadel and is as trusted as Ulrick would have been. Opal doesn't know what his goals are but she knows that nothing good can possibly come of them and since she's the only one who knows what's going on it's up to her to stop him. First she needs to find Ulrick and figure out a way to put his soul back in his own body but what if Ulrick wasn't quite the innocent victim in all this? Will he even want Opal's help? While I think I prefer the Study series I'm still really enjoying the Glass books and I love being able to dive back into the world of Ixia. Although this is Opal's story we still get to see some familiar faces along the way and Janco in particular has a starring role in this story but I also loved catching up with Leif and of course Yelena too. Opal has always seemed much more innocent than Yelena,<---M> she is younger</---M>, more trusting and less able to stand up for herself, particularly in Storm Glass and during the beginning of this book. I was really pleased to see how much progress she makes in this novel though, she still has her moments but it was great to see her starting to gain confidence now that she's beginning to understand how her magic works and I was glad that she is standing up for herself more now. In fact by the end of the book she'd become pretty impressive. I actually like the fact that Opal and Yelena are so different and it's always fun to see how the two of them interact with each other. There is a lot going on in <+++>Sea Glass</+++> , Opal finds herself in a whole heap of trouble and she has more than one enemy to deal with. We get to see more of the different Sitian clans which was interesting but at times it did feel like there was a little too much travelling going on. I would have liked to spend more time with some of the clans seeing Opal making use of her new found magical abilities. That's a fairly minor niggle though because there was so much going on that I was certainly never bored and I could happily have devoured the whole book in one sitting if only there were more hours in the day. One thing Opal really has to learn throughout this story is not to blindly trust people, even those who she feels closest to. There are a lot of people who aren't quite what they seem and that doesn't make it easy for her to figure out who are allies and who are enemies but that is something she is starting to get better at. She needs to learn to trust her gut instincts a little more and that is definitely something she is improving at. There are some revelations at the end of <+++>Sea Glass</+++> that are going to make things very interesting for Opal in the future and I can't wait to read Spy Glass to see what happens to her next. ...more What can I say, I was a little dismayed by Sea Glass. Perhaps because I expected more out of this second book. Perhaps because I thought Opal's character was going to be more interesting and her adventures more daring and intriguing. However, none of that came into fruition, at least in my opinion. The book didn't really pick up for me until the last 100 pages. I felt that the first 200 pages dawdled and there were chapters that seem indulgent and unconsequential. I know Maria Snyder was trying What can I say, I was a little dismayed by Sea Glass. Perhaps because I expected more out of this second book. Perhaps because I thought Opal's character was going to be more interesting and her adventures more daring and intriguing. However, none of that came into fruition, at least in my opinion. The book didn't really pick up for me until the last 100 pages. I felt that the first 200 pages dawdled and there were chapters that seem indulgent and unconsequential. I know Maria Snyder was trying to develop Opal's character and what other magical talents she has but some chapters just took too long to do so. In respects to Opal, I appreciated her character developing some spunk in this book but I did not care so much for her becoming jaded and distrustful of everyone. I get it that a lot of people in this book disappointed her but it was just such a downer when she was acting this way. You can still be spunky and kind at the same time, Opal. It doesn't mean you're weak when you're kind. Just look at Harry Potter! But what irked me the most about the Sea Glass is how Opal's character was turning into a mini-Yelena. Opal all of a sudden found the urge to learn to defend herself, just like Yelena in the Study series. Just like Yelena, she wanted to learn how to fight with weapons, pick locks, move like a ninja/ghost, do nightly investigations, etc. Also just like Yelena, she befriended two soldiers and have become her sworn protectors - Nic and Eve to Yelena's Ari and Janco. I just wish that Maria Snyder was more creative and original in fashioning Opal's character. She is the heroine of the Glass series after all. She should be different from Yelena, eventhough the Glass series is a sequel/spin off of the Study series. I'm sure if I looked for more similarities between these series that I would. But I'll stop here just to be fair with this book. I just have a love-dislike relationship with this book. I did enjoy the last 100 pages of the book! I liked that Lief's character had more face time in this book. I still felt that Kade should have been in the book more since he is Opal's main squeeze. Good riddance to Ulrick. He's a whiny lad anyway. But, Devlen, hmmm, the devil who's had a change of heart might just steal Opal's heart. Sneaky little devil! This I am definitely interested in finding out in the 3rd installment, Spy Glass. Also, I am intrigued as to what becomes of Opal, with all her magical abilities changed. So now that I've opined, I still love Maria Snyder. The Glass series is definitely not a favorite but I will continue onto Spy Glass as I'm intrigued indeed. ...more \u201cLying to yourself is easy, too. I know. It's much harder to stay and deal with consequences.\u201d The good: *I absolutely love Sitia and the world Snyder created. *Kade is my sweetheart. *Reappearance of old characters - Yelena, Leif, Janco.. \u201cDon\u2019t you dare say it.\u201d He poked my arm with a finger. \u201cMy choice to help you. My fault for being caught. No regrets. I\u2019d do it again without thought.\u201d He cocked his head to the side and scratched his scarred ear. \u201cWhich isn\u2019t that big of a revelation. Ari sa \u201cLying to yourself is easy, too. I know. It's much harder to stay and deal with consequences.\u201d \u00b4 The good: *I absolutely love Sitia and the world Snyder created. *Kade is my sweetheart. *Reappearance of old characters - Yelena, Leif, Janco.. \u201cDon\u2019t you dare say it.\u201d He poked my arm with a finger. \u201cMy choice to help you. My fault for being caught. No regrets. I\u2019d do it again without thought.\u201d He cocked his head to the side and scratched his scarred ear. \u201cWhich isn\u2019t that big of a revelation. Ari says I do everything without thought.\u201d He shrugged. \u201cThinking is overrated.\u201d The bad: *It was a bit boring and stretched someries. I was considering DNFing it, but in the end am glad I didn't. *I still couldn't conect with Opal (<---B>And I really, really tried!</---B>) *Devlen's sudden change seemed a little weird to me. \u201cIt was all a part of being trustworthy\u2014of being a piece of sea glass. High tides, low tides, storms, sand and mistakes all contributed to the polishing process. Though difficult to endure at the time, the demanding elements helped smooth the surface, transforming one into a better person, not worse. A person who learned from the harsh environment, who knew the storm would end, and who felt confident she would still be in one piece.\u201d ...more Thank you to Stefanie for keeping me motivated for the past two months when I was thinking of dnf this! As always with <---A>Maria V. Snyder</---A> books this was good! Not her best in my opinion but still worth the read, especially if you're reading the main series in the chronicle (Study series). Review to come. This was soo, soo, soo good! I don't think that MVS can write anything I won't love! This was an okay read, but I didn't like it as much as the first. I liked Opal in this one, but again, there were times where she annoyed me. The pacing in book one was the main reason why I started to lose interest near the end. It was the same reason why I started to lose interest in this one. Unfortunately though, I found this one to be a bit slower, so I lost interest quicker. Overall, Okay read. Actual rating 4.5 stars This review was originally posted at https://freadomlibrary.wordpress.com/ Critically Plot \u2013 4 out of 5 stars Just like all her other books, the plot is fast paced and full of constant action. It\u2019s full of adventure and traveling to all the different kinds of clans found in Sitia which was really fun to experience. There\u2019s suspense, danger. betrayal, tension, lies and magic of course. I like that there\u2019s a new form of magic introduced that gave the story and the world an enti Actual rating 4.5 stars This review was originally posted at https://freadomlibrary.wordpress.com/ Critically Plot \u2013 4 out of 5 stars Just like all her other books, the plot is fast paced and full of constant action. It\u2019s full of adventure and traveling to all the different kinds of clans found in Sitia which was really fun to experience. There\u2019s suspense, danger. betrayal, tension, lies and magic of course. I like that there\u2019s a new form of magic introduced that gave the story and the world an entirely new dynamic. Super easy to read and to get caught up in which is why I enjoy them so much. Writing Style \u2013 4 out of 5 stars As always, her writing style is super easy to read and engaging. It\u2019s really straight forward and simple but the pace is fast which makes it addicting and really easy to consume. Yet it still manages to be descriptive and detailed especially since the world is so vast and full of all different kinds of magic and people. The narration this time is a little darker, jaded and harsh after the events of the first book which was sometimes a downer to read. But it\u2019s so imaginative that you can\u2019t help but be caught up in it. Characters \u2013 4.5 out of 5 stars This was were my biggest problem was in the first book. Opal is absolutely nothing like Yelena and that threw me off completely in the first book but there\u2019s a lot of development in this one that made me like her a bit more. She\u2019s deeply affected by all the events in the first book and has almost done a 180 from where she started. She\u2019s a lot more jaded and angry and is trying to not trust people so easily so she doesn\u2019t get hurt. She\u2019s grown more powerful but she\u2019s kind of resentful about it and tries to keep her powers to herself so people won\u2019t try to take advantage of her. However, she still gets sucked into horrible situations for being naive and caring when she really shouldn\u2019t. And she unfortunately has kind of martyr attitude that got on my nerves a lot. Again, there\u2019s a few side characters that are spotlighted. I love seeing some of the old characters from the Study series make appearances in this one, they\u2019re all so interesting and complex and funny that I enjoyed the interactions they all have together. The new characters introduced in this series I\u2019m not 100% sold on. There\u2019s a lot of back and forth and you don\u2019t really know who to trust or what to believe so it was a little hard for me to connect with the characters, specially the love interests. Yes, as in plural, also one of the things that turns me off about this series is that there\u2019s a lot of different romantic entanglements with the main character and I DON\u2019T KNOW WHO TO SHIP. IT\u2019S SO CONFUSING. Emotionally (view spoiler) [This one was definitely a huge step up from the first book. The plot is intricate. We follow Opal again as she\u2019s trying to make her way back to Sitia to stop blood magic once and for all. The problem is no one believes her that that kind of magic is still going on and everyone has started to see her as a threat because of her new powers. The plots of these books are always really entertaining and super fast paced. It\u2019s very hard to be bored because there are a lot of different threads showing up at once and you can never really tell what\u2019s going on until the end. They all seem unrelated and separated in the beginning but they all come together in such a mind blowing way and in one that you never saw coming. I really loved getting to see more of the setting because this world is so vast and full of such different cultures and clans that have very special realities and rituals. It was so interesting to learn more and to see the huge imagination that the author has to create so many different cultures that are still intertwined together. The ending was unexpected and kind of annoyed me to be honest. It changed a really critical and important part of the series arc and of the character and I don\u2019t know how that is going to work in the third book. I\u2019m a little apprehensive to see what will happen there. Opal is a lot better for me in this book. I definitely warmed up to her more though she has the tendency to annoy me. She finally realized how much people have taken advantage of her and used her and she\u2019s sick of it. She tired of people overpowering, bullying and pushing her to do the things that they want her to. So to counteract that, she started to take matters into her own hands. But things were taken way too far. She shed everything and everyone, even the people who love and support her. That ended up getting her into more trouble than necessary because she tried to do everything alone. It was really frustrating to see her go from one extreme to another but it\u2019s also realistic. I\u2019ve done things like that myself, so while I was annoyed by her actions, I understood them. Towards the end, she got a little better so I\u2019m hoping she will reach a happy medium in the last book. So my biggest issue with this series and this book in particular was the love square that ended up emerging which is so frustrating. I was quite surprised to see this kind of romance from this author because my favorite part of the Study is the slow and steady build up of Yelena and Valek\u2019s relationship. Again, there\u2019s three guys in this story and the lines are quickly blurred because of some of the plot points and most of the time I have no idea who to ship! Just when you think you know who it\u2019s going to be and you start focusing more on that line of the square, shit happens and you\u2019re back at square one. It\u2019s very disorienting and I am not a fan of this part of the story, I could do without it. Overall, this book improved a lot after the first one. The plot as always is fast paced, entertaining and intricate. The main character\u2019s development was intense and necessary but it was taken a bit too far. The romance is not my cup of tea but the writing style makes it easy to get caught up in the story anyway. Can\u2019t wait to finish the series! (hide spoiler) ] ...more This book still suffered slightly from the tell me over showing me syndrome BUT it was drastically improved from book one. I hope it's all but gone in the last one as I know what a skilled story teller the author is. As for the storyline itself I'm loving it, seeing in the mind of someone with this new power set, when before we have only seen this from the outside... I'm looking forward to seeing how things unfurl. If I were to write an action adventure story with magical and fantastical elements, I would write a book exactly like \u201cSea Glass\u201d. But since I\u2019m not ambitious or imaginative enough to write an actual novel, I\u2019m glad Maria V. Snyder can and did. \u201cSea Glass\u201d is the second book in Maria\u2019s latest trilogy. It complements the first book perfectly, even upping the excitement and intrigue level a notch. There is enough magic, mystery, blood magic, humor, cameos, political intrigue and action to keep you If I were to write an action adventure story with magical and fantastical elements, I would write a book exactly like \u201cSea Glass\u201d. But since I\u2019m not ambitious or imaginative enough to write an actual novel, I\u2019m glad Maria V. Snyder can and did. \u201cSea Glass\u201d is the second book in Maria\u2019s latest trilogy. It complements the first book perfectly, even upping the excitement and intrigue level a notch. There is enough magic, mystery, blood magic, humor, cameos, political intrigue and action to keep you riveted and entertained. She even has a bit more romance thrown in for good measure. \u201cSea Glass\u201d starts off almost exactly where \u201cStorm Glass\u201d left off. In this installment, Opal has spunk! She is frustrated beyond belief that the list of those who believe what happened to her in \u201cStorm Glass\u201d is so short \u2013 and it grows shorter and shorter as the book progresses. On top of that, she feels as though she has no control over her own life or her own decisions. She feels trapped. While reading, I just wanted to reach into the book, shake these people and tell them to really think about what they are accusing! Seriously\u2026*sigh* But alas, no matter how much I wanted to, there was no way to reach into the pages. So I simply continued reading to see where the adventure took me. (Not a real sacrifice, I must say). Through the book, Opal is gathering up her courage and it\u2019s actually nice to see when she finally has enough self-confidence to \u201cstick it to the man\u201d. Unfortunately, when she is finally in a position to make her own choice, what she must decide between will basically screw her over no matter what she decides to do. Opal is well aware of this, but she is trying her hardest to opt for the choice that makes her feel as though she is in control and that let her feel somewhat independent. Opal is a great character. You really feel her struggle. It\u2019s her struggle that makes her so relatable. Who hasn\u2019t felt like the whole world was against you and as your confidence level wavers while you are trying to battle magicians who are using giant green bees as weapons? Okay\u2026maybe not the magicians with the bees part\u2026but the confidence part? Absolutely. One decision that is easy to agree with is Opal\u2019s choice of beau, Kade. How he tries to stand by her even when everyone else seems to have left her behind is quite admirable. Their relationship is not perfect \u2013 you feel as though Opal is holding back a bit. But Kade is strong and he wants to stick by her. Let\u2019s talk about Devlen. Now he\u2019s a conundrum. He\u2019s the bad guy. I should hate him. He hurt our girl Opal \u2013 many times. He\u2019s deceived her, lied to her, tricked her\u2026 Really, I should hate him. But I can\u2019t seem to bring myself to as wholly and completely as I should. I attest that to the way Maria writes her characters. She makes them human. Whether they are bad guys or good guys, I can\u2019t help but feel drawn to them. You can\u2019t help but feel for the naughty boy who is trying his hardest reconcile for his actions. I actually found myself wanting to tell Opal that if things with Kade don\u2019t work out, maybe she should consider Devlen. Seriously, how messed up is that?! \u201cSea Glass\u201d bumps up the level of adventure from high to \u201choly cow!\u201d It\u2019s funnier than the first one too, although that should not surprise since Janco (from Maria\u2019s \u2018Study\u2019 series) has quite an important role in this book \u2013 and Janco is funny! And the ending\u2026whoa! What happens to our girl Opal is very unexpected. Then again, so is most of what happens in these tales. If you loved \u201cStorm Glass\u201d, then you will for sure really love \u201cSea Glass\u201d and you\u2019ll count the days until \u201cSpy Glass\u201d is released with impatient glee. ...more What's worse than a dumbass? A cynical, mopey, feeling-sorry-for-themself dumbass - and that is what Opal is in this book. She's changed from an optimistic dumbass to a pessimistic dumbass. But, don't worry, she still gets kidnapped and caught a lot. And, the thing is, Opal knows she's an idiot, but instead of trying to fix her idiocy, she wallows in self-pity. I would be a fool to trust him. Too bad being a fool was my best skill. Oh.... poor you!!! Let's all feel sorry for her. So, in this sto What's worse than a dumbass? A cynical, mopey, feeling-sorry-for-themself dumbass - and that is what Opal is in this book. She's changed from an optimistic dumbass to a pessimistic dumbass. But, don't worry, she still gets kidnapped and caught a lot. And, the thing is, Opal knows she's an idiot, but instead of trying to fix her idiocy, she wallows in self-pity. I would be a fool to trust him. Too bad being a fool was my best skill. Oh.... poor you!!! Let's all feel sorry for her. So, in this story, Opal is trying to convince everyone about the blood magic exchange between Devlin and Ulrick while the Council treats her like their personal Apple Store since she makes the magical equivalent of cell phones and they got the cell phone fever. They don't trust her (probably a good idea since she's a moron), so they decide to make her their very own Chinese slave labor factory worker. She's on lock-down, unpaid, and only allowed any freedoms if she keeps up with her glass animal iphone quota. Of course, she reacts to all of this in every worst way you can imagine. First, she goes the defiance route and doesn't go back to the Council when they call her. She is determined to find Ulrick, stuck in Devlin's body, and \"rescue\" him. That went as well as expected. Even when he flat out tells her that he wanted the exchange, she wouldn't believe it. Dumbass. Next, she decides to go the submission route and rolls over for the council, but whines and bitches the whole time. This is typical of the character of Opal. She is totally wishy-washy - deciding one thing with all the conviction of an idiot without the right information, only to change her mind and start acting and doing the opposite. I really really don't like this chick. (have I made that clear yet?) And, yet, she is supposed to be the big hero of the story. She can't even keep her mind on her supposed one-true-love, Kade. She kisses him to get her mind off of Devlin. Really, girl? The guy who tortured you and gave you fear and nightmares since you were 14 years old? I don't care how nice and reformed he gets, girls don't generally get together with their rapist/torturers. Consider that a hard rule. But, at this point, I have to think that the torturer can actually do better than her. She's a total dumbass. ...more A fantastic continuation from book 1. I'm looking forward to reading the conclusion! This book drove me a little crazy. I found that too many things were occurring at the same time. Just like a whirlwind, Opal was involved in too many things. Moreover, the deaths of many of the glass-makers frustrated me a little. I found it unnecessary to kill them off. Too many authors use the 'only person capable' routine to accentuate the importance of their protagonists. However, what irritated me the most was definitely Opal's relationships with men. Her constant desire to rescue Ulrick wh This book drove me a little crazy. I found that too many things were occurring at the same time. Just like a whirlwind, Opal was involved in too many things. Moreover, the deaths of many of the glass-makers frustrated me a little. I found it unnecessary to kill them off. Too many authors use the 'only person capable' routine to accentuate the importance of their protagonists. However, what irritated me the most was definitely Opal's relationships with men. Her constant desire to rescue Ulrick who was beyond redemption made me want to slap her back into reality. Towards Devlen, I wouldn't even bat an eyelid talking to him if I discovered what he did. Other than that, Kade was too good to be true. The most powerful, young and elegant stormdancer who cares and loves? No, no, no! It's OVERKILL. 3 MEN, 1 GIRL. Note how I don't consider her a grown woman. Her competency and inexperience contrasts greatly to Yelena, which might be why her responses weren't much to my liking. My perspective towards her powers? Never expected it. Definitely one of a kind but relatively useless against Curare. Who I loved in this book? LEIF. LEIF owned this book. Every scene made me bawl in laughter. Whether it would be his sarcastic replies to anything regarding Yelena, or the matter of his tummy, FOOD. Unfortunately, I found his magic overly downplayed in this series. As unique as his ability is, he still somehow gets caught and rendered immobile by Curare too often than to my liking. LEIF & MARA are a match made in heaven. ...more \u00c5rh hvor var den god <3 Enjoyed Content: mild language, implied sex but no scene or details Whaaaaaaaaaatttt?! It's always a bad idea to start off a book review with negatives, which is why I tend to follow the same structure each time: summary, positives, negatives, overall. When it comes to the second book in a Fantasy series, though, I don't know how to give a summary and not give everything away or at least spoil the first book. It just seems like too much work and I'm too lazy. So I'm ditching my usual structure and just spewing thoughts as they come. I find myself fairly ambivalent towards this seri It's always a bad idea to start off a book review with negatives, which is why I tend to follow the same structure each time: summary, positives, negatives, overall. When it comes to the second book in a Fantasy series, though, I don't know how to give a summary and not give everything away or at least spoil the first book. It just seems like too much work and I'm too lazy. So I'm ditching my usual structure and just spewing thoughts as they come. I find myself fairly ambivalent towards this series, so far. They're light Fantasy, light like Fiona McIntosh though mercifully better written - but not great. Still flawed, and a bit sloppy. I had forgotten a lot of what had happened in the first book, but it all started to come back to me as I read Sea Glass , so that was handled well. It may be because I didn't read them back-to-back, but I'm still finding what look to me like plot-holes. The one that really popped out at me here and confused me, was regarding Opal's new power. She can drain a magician's magic by drawing it from them into a glass orb - or any glass container - where it turns into magically-charged diamonds. Now, she did this accidentally to one of her classmates at the wizard school in the first book. It was hardly a secret. So why was Opal always talking about how no one at the magicians' keep - where the school is and the Council resides - knows about her siphoning ability? I thought they all knew! That really bugged me. Other aspects of the plot bothered me too. Like regarding the forbidden blood magic, which no one on the Council believes is still out there after Opal told them her story (which they also disbelieved). It seemed pretty significant to me that one of the magicians was a witness to some attempted blood magic, but no one mentioned it. I thought \"A-ha! Now they'll believe Opal!\" But no. It was barely mentioned again. In fact, all the mature adults in the story seem, most of the time, to be conveniently stupid and immature, or corrupt - with a few exceptions, but generally, getting Opal's perspective, you'd think they were all idiots (Opal's perspective is not always trustworthy (any more than any narrator's is) but she has the self-absorption of a child). There were other little niggly things like that, that made it seem like Snyder wasn't as in-control of her story as she should be. I found the ending confusing as well, and it bugs me when characters don't have the conversations you feel they should have, that are screaming to be had, especially when they would clear things up. Contrived, is the word that springs to mind. Most of the time, I like Opal. Many times, though, she annoys me. I wonder how much tighter the plot would be if Opal weren't narrating it? The plot, I do like, even if I think it could be better executed. The characters refer back to the Poison Study trilogy a lot, which I haven't read yet, so I do know how that ends and some of the things that happened in it - mostly regarding Opal, as she does think a lot about herself. She's well-meaning, but tends to be a bit deluded. Going after Ulrick to rescue him and switch him back into his own body, which Devlen is occupying, is one example: so sure she is that Ulrick wants saving, it never occurs to her that he might be happier this way. She's just preoccupied with Devlen tricking her and no one believing her that Ulrick is really Devlen. She's quite immature, and her growth is handled clumsily, obviously, spelt out for us. However, Opal is also quite engaging, and often sympathetic. I did actually like her. She reminds me of a couple of other Fantasy characters I love, but she's got that self-indulgent streak I don't like. She wallows a bit, and has fairly superficial relationships with the other characters. Still, her adventures are exciting. One of the things I liked was the Bad Guy becoming a Good Guy, and a possible triangular love interest. Ooooh ;) That would be Devlen, who had kidnapped and tortured Opal more than once in the past. Is there a word for when kidnappers/torturers fall in love with their victims? I know it's supposed to happen the other way 'round, with kidnappers. Anyway, that adds a bit of spice. The story begun in Storm Glass is wrapped up at the end of Sea Glass , but there is another book to follow. God knows what mess Opal will get herself into this time! ...more I'll start off first by saying--omg how much did I want this book? I might be a little biased, since I have adored the series since the very first, but I'm so glad I got a copy a little early. Next, for those of you who haven't yet gotten around to reading Storm Glass (for whatever reason, I don't judge) don't feel that you'll be lost jumping into this second book. The first 100 pages or so of Sea Glass has a pretty intensive overview of what happens in the first book through interactions and co I'll start off first by saying--omg how much did I want this book? I might be a little biased, since I have adored the series since the very first, but I'm so glad I got a copy a little early. Next, for those of you who haven't yet gotten around to reading Storm Glass (for whatever reason, I don't judge) don't feel that you'll be lost jumping into this second book. The first 100 pages or so of Sea Glass has a pretty intensive overview of what happens in the first book through interactions and conversations. Its not like 'exposition drop', but if you've read or re-read the book recently you'll find yourself skimming passages a little more frequently then in Yelena's books. The book itself! After the huge revelation in Storm Glass about Ulrick and Devlen's connection, you'd think Opal would be that much wiser. I'm not so certain she is. More cautious, but wiser? Not so much since Devlen manages to trick her a couple of times and Ulrick...well Ulrick is just difficult to deal with. To be fair she has a lot stacked against. Like Yelena, Opal's actions are judged critically through fear, paranoia and the careful manipulation of facts by enemies. I was happy to see that the whole romance angle was worked out for this book. The synopsis is slightly misleading, but the author purposely had it changed that way so that spoilers for Storm Glass weren't covering the back cover. As much as possible (in a continuous series) MVS tries to keep things vague and 'in the moment' so that spoilers don't ruin a new reader's perception (which is nice since I can't tell you how many times I've picked up the third or second in a series and been spoiled for plot twist major from Book 1). Janco plays a bigger role in this book then in the previous one. Which made me gleeful. I love Janco (and Ari) and lamented the fact there isn't more of them. Fisk too (a minor character from the Study series that, more or less, worked his way up the supporting character ladder to become pretty important in Sitia) makes several appearances. What's interesting is to see the unraveling of a society. Between the events of the Study series and the events transpiring around Opal, Sitia is becoming a messy, paranoid country (or at least the leaders are). The Council is making more mercenary decisions, treating each suspicious piece of evidence as hard proof and being secretive. Not for anything, but I can see why the Commander is so reluctant to work with them on allowing magic in Ixia. Ixia might not be the perfect place, but a lot their problems stemmed from magic (Mogkan for instance) and the consequences thereof. The Council stood back for far too long and let things run rampant, their sudden 'we're in trouble, batten down the hatches' attitude isn't being helpful. If, like me, you pick up a first press release of Sea Glass you're likely to see that on the last page it says 'Stay Tuned for more in Fall 2011'. MVS assured me that the next book is due out in the Fall of 2010, the publishers just printed the wrong year (and forgot her acknowledgements as well). If, also like me, you finish the book and scream that its a pretty important cliffhanger and why are we waiting for a year to find out what happens--take heart in three things: 1) MVS' young adult novel, Inside Out, is due out in the Spring of 2010 from Harlequin Teen. Not set in Ixia/Sitia (but a whole new world), but still. Get a MVS fix where you can. 2) MVS' newsletter (published once every two months or so depending on her schedule) ordinarily has a short story set between the events of books (or concurrent to events from a different character's perspective). Right now a mini-series called 'Ice Study' is under way. E-mail her at any time to get the back chapters and join the list! 3) This is par for the course. Anyone who picked up Luna's original printing of Magic Study and waited for them to put out Fire Study had a cruel awakening when the books switched to Mira (a different imprint), had to be re-released as new trade paperbacks (no more mass market or hardcovers) and THEN Fire Study came out. Almost two years later. Having Storm Glass, and six months later Sea Glass, come out so close together was a wonderful vacation. Welcome back to reality. We still have nothing on the Wheel of Time fans. ...more You Thought Opal was Badass in Storm Glass, Think Again! Sea Glass Rating: 4.5/5 Summary: Opal has learned she can steal a magician\u2019s powers without being provoked by siphoning it into a glass orb. The Council is afraid of her new power and orders her back, but Opal must confront Ulrick about blood magic and switching souls with Devlen. After the goes badly, Opal is forced back to the Keep and is held under house arrest. She is isolated, Zitora avoids her and is no longer her mentor, a null shield You Thought Opal was Badass in Storm Glass, Think Again! Sea Glass Rating: 4.5/5 Summary: Opal has learned she can steal a magician\u2019s powers without being provoked by siphoning it into a glass orb. The Council is afraid of her new power and orders her back, but Opal must confront Ulrick about blood magic and switching souls with Devlen. After the goes badly, Opal is forced back to the Keep and is held under house arrest. She is isolated, Zitora avoids her and is no longer her mentor, a null shield is always around her and she has baby sitters. The constant suspicion begins to drive Opal insane and devises a way to get rid of her babysitters and the get the Councils approval. Opal must also find a way to end blood magic once and for all because after Councilor Moon\u2019s testimony, no one believes her about the soul switch. I really enjoyed this installment. For me, it seems that the second one of Snyder\u2019s trilogies are my favorite though I can\u2019t say about Spy Glass since I just started it. I definitely liked this one more than Storm Glass for two reasons. One- less Ulrick and two- Opal is a badass with major confidence. And she is a sassy girl. Oh she could battle Yelena with some of her retorts in this book. It\u2019s no secret from my Storm Glass review that I hated Ulrick and I still do. Sea Glass didn\u2019t change my opinion of him and I wished that Opal had given up on him much sooner or actually believed Devlen when he told her that Ulrick wanted the magic. The plot in the book was great! I loved it. I loved chases and learning about glass making and schooling. There was always something interesting happening and the last 30% was especially intriguing! Snyder is always putting her heroines into tense situations. This time Opal didn\u2019t always freeze, she would think and use her skills with weapons. She depended on herself and would get herself out of them. When she couldn\u2019t, she called for help. She just was so badass, especially in the middle when the Council was trying to control her and she was like nuh-uh I\u2019m not taking this shit. Oh it was wonderful! The romance in this book was absent for the first part. Kade wasn\u2019t in the book until about 40-50% of the way through sadly, but when he was, it was awesome. Opal and Kade are adorable and such a good couple. Once Opal graduates, it should be easier for them to be together. Since Opal knows the sand recipe for Stormdancer orbs they always seem to need her too. Ooh I just love them, but there\u2019s trouble brewing for book three because Devlen is reformed and he\u2019s got feelings for Opal too! ...more Brilliant! Was flipping through the pages at high speed. Am always satisfied by Snyder's books. In this series the concept of Opal's magic makes for a fun read. I really wanted her to ping more magic into her orb! :) The dark can be pretty dark (particularly in the Study series), but the resolution is always completely satisfying. Aahh... I love it when an author is clever enough to finish a book well. What I love the most about this book is the growth in Opal's character from the beginning of th Brilliant! Was flipping through the pages at high speed. Am always satisfied by Snyder's books. In this series the concept of Opal's magic makes for a fun read. I really wanted her to ping more magic into her orb! :) The dark can be pretty dark (particularly in the Study series), but the resolution is always completely satisfying. Aahh... I love it when an author is clever enough to finish a book well. What I love the most about this book is the growth in Opal's character from the beginning of the series to the end of Sea Glass. Characterization is impressive - I was feeling what Opal was feeling (which doesn't happen often). Grrr to the council!! I think first person perspective helps with developing a connection with the protagonist quickly, but it's more than that. I was 'feeling it' more than with Yelena Zaltana in the study series. (Perhaps not so much in Storm Glass, but definitely in this book.) I thought she did a great job with Devlen's character. It's refreshing when the 'bad guys' are occasionally shades of grey not black & white, and when the 'evil' is separate to the person who can choose one way or another and who has the option to go through a process of redemption. Makes it deeper and way more satisfying. Snyder is really very clever. I want to be like her when I grow up. ...more WOW! I literally did a fan girl squeel into my pillow like two...okay three... OKAY, five times while reading this. I love it. It was better than Storm glass by a mile and half and I loved the evolution of Opal's character through this book. I can't stand it when the female charcter is a door mat. And by the end of Sea Glass Opal is anything the but the sweet push over that she is when the series begins! :D I'm so mad I have to wait till September to read what happens! I can't get enough of Snyde WOW! I literally did a fan girl squeel into my pillow like two...okay three... OKAY, five times while reading this. I love it. It was better than Storm glass by a mile and half and I loved the evolution of Opal's character through this book. I can't stand it when the female charcter is a door mat. And by the end of Sea Glass Opal is anything the but the sweet push over that she is when the series begins! :D I'm so mad I have to wait till September to read what happens! I can't get enough of Snyder's writing! I will keep reading her stuff untill quits writing it. This one has changed my opinion of Storm Glass and I think I'll take away one of it's stars because this was so much better. I love that she does twists and turns and crazy action scenes so there is never a dull moment. Even the internal monologue is interesting! I just want to gush and gush and gush about this but it's making me a bit crazy because I don't want to move on. I have so many theories about whats going to happen and I have no one to talk to about it because no one has read it!! Whew....Okay... book detox is going into effect. ...more I love these books. There is all the action and excitement, but, I have a problem with Opal. ***Spoiler Alert!!!*** She has no confidence in her own abilities and allows everyone to walk all over her. But, when she decides to gain control and take over her life the fireworks start. I love Opal with a backbone, you go girl!! Now lets discuss Opal's other little problem. Who is it that Opal really wants? Does Opal want to be involved with Kade the safe secure choice or Devlin, a man she has good I love these books. There is all the action and excitement, but, I have a problem with Opal. ***Spoiler Alert!!!*** She has no confidence in her own abilities and allows everyone to walk all over her. But, when she decides to gain control and take over her life the fireworks start. I love Opal with a backbone, you go girl!! Now lets discuss Opal's other little problem. Who is it that Opal really wants? Does Opal want to be involved with Kade the safe secure choice or Devlin, a man she has good reason to hate. But as we all know there is this thin line between love and hate. And Kade as sweet and dependable he is there is something I do not lie or trust about him. Odd for me, I normally root for the nice guy, there is something there I just don't know what it is. *Spoiler over* All in all I enjoyed it and the only regret I have is that it will be 2011 before the next book comes out and my questions and thoughts get addressed. ...more I liked this book a lot more than Storm Glass! There was a lot more adventure, and action. Opal was such a bad-ass in this book! She wasn't taking anyones crap anymore. I love the new Opal. And I'm really glad she learned to stick up for herself! I love all the plot twists that were in this book as well. I never would have seen the thing with Tama and Kakoka coming at all! Same with Devlen, that was a big change. I loved all the character developments in this book. Most of them really learned abo I liked this book a lot more than Storm Glass! There was a lot more adventure, and action. Opal was such a bad-ass in this book! She wasn't taking anyones crap anymore. I love the new Opal. And I'm really glad she learned to stick up for herself! I love all the plot twists that were in this book as well. I never would have seen the thing with Tama and Kakoka coming at all! Same with Devlen, that was a big change. I loved all the character developments in this book. Most of them really learned about themselves. Kade was as amazing as ever <33 I love him. Zitora got on my nerves until the ending of this book! The world building was even better in this book also! So much detail, going in depth about the places they went and the things they saw. I love how Snyder explains what magic feels like. Its so descriptive that you can almost feel it yourself! Overall, I really enjoyed this book. The whole series is great so far! 4.5/5 star rating! ...more Another great book from Maria V. Snyder. I love Opal even more and I got so frustrated when the Council kept accusing her of being a threat. She never would do the things they are accusing her of but no one would see that. Man that is frustrating. Kade is so sweet and understanding. Also, I really started to like Develen even though he has done horrible things to Opal. Blood magic is still creepy and I strongly recommend refrain from using it for any reason. Overall: 5 stars Recommendation: Opal Another great book from Maria V. Snyder. I love Opal even more and I got so frustrated when the Council kept accusing her of being a threat. She never would do the things they are accusing her of but no one would see that. Man that is frustrating. Kade is so sweet and understanding. Also, I really started to like Develen even though he has done horrible things to Opal. Blood magic is still creepy and I strongly recommend refrain from using it for any reason. Overall: 5 stars Recommendation: Opal is not exactly like Yelena but they both are strong, fierce, and attract trouble like moths to a flame. This one is a little bit better than the first and the first was really good so you should know this is even better. ...more I thought rereading the Glass series would keep me occupied for a while. But I'm devouring them like the very first time! On to Spy Glass! Would it be to soon to reread Shadow Study next? A few things: -the council was annoying in this book and I just wanted to punch them -Devlin grew on me -No Valek :( -Lot's of Janco :) -Lief is so funny!! I liked it a lot. It wasn't predictable. There was a twist at the end that I never would have anticipated. -A very good read. Opal has come a long way in this book and I felt she was more likeable as she became a stronger person. Just love Maria V Snyders work it's always amazing I enjoyed this book, but not as much as the last one, and definitely not as much as the study books. While I still think the author does character development well, I'm not really loving the character itself all that much. She did Yelena very well, but the insecure Opal comes off irritating and dull sometimes. Her confidence is developing, in what I think is a very believable way (which is great) but Opal's character herself is just ... meh. I wish she found her confidence sooner, and without be I enjoyed this book, but not as much as the last one, and definitely not as much as the study books. While I still think the author does character development well, I'm not really loving the character itself all that much. She did Yelena very well, but the insecure Opal comes off irritating and dull sometimes. Her confidence is developing, in what I think is a very believable way (which is great) but Opal's character herself is just ... meh. I wish she found her confidence sooner, and without being so dumb about it. I felt like her character had a lot of potential to be amazing, but she just wasn't. The development of magic in this book was good. The plot and story was interesting. But something about it just felt off. The story doesn't resonate the way the Study books did. I don't care about Opal's character, and the other characters, as much as I did the original cast. The plot fell short of my expectations. That all being said, I did enjoy the book. ...more", "Title": "Sea Glass"},
