{"Comments": "The following is a transcript of a phone intercept recorded June 8, 2003. The first subject is <---C>John Corey</---C>, former NYPD detective and current contract agent for the FBI & NYPD\u2019s joint Anti-Terrorist Task Force. The second subject is Asad Khalil (a/k/a <+++>The Lion</+++>), currently wanted internationally for multiple acts of terrorism and murder.<---F> John Corey: Hello</---F>. Asad Khalil: John, it\u2019s Asad Khalil. Do you remember me? JC: Asad! How could I forget? You killed more people than cancer when you got inside The following is a transcript of a phone intercept recorded June 8, 2003. The first subject is John Corey, former NYPD detective and current contract agent for the FBI & NYPD\u2019s joint Anti-Terrorist Task Force. The second subject is Asad Khalil (a/k/a <+++>The Lion</+++>), currently wanted internationally for multiple acts of terrorism and murder. John Corey: Hello. Asad Khalil: John, it\u2019s Asad Khalil. Do you remember me? JC: Asad! How could I forget? You killed more people than cancer when you got inside the U.S. three years ago. AK: Ah, yes. It was a good run. Of course, you kept me from completing my ultimate objective. JC: Let\u2019s call it a draw. How have you been? AK: Busy. Lots of work in Afghanistan and Iraq for terrorists these days. JC: Yeah,<---M> you guys have kept me hopping</---M>, too. AK: Hey, do you still work with that woman you were partnered with when you were chasing me? What was her name? JC: Kate. And we still work together. In fact, we got married. AK: Really? Congratulations. But working with your wife? That has to be awkward. JC: It can get complicated, but we\u2019re a pretty good team. We\u2019ve had a couple of big cases since you were here, and we managed to get the job done. Besides, what do you know about working with females? You\u2019d rather kill a woman for not wearing a burqua than take her out for a drink. AK: True, true. But this isn\u2019t a social call, John. We need to discuss some business. JC: OK. But you really should try dating a girl instead of stoning her to death at some point. It\u2019d be good for you and a hell of a lot more fun for her. AK: You know I\u2019ve got far too many religious and sexual hang-ups to do that, John. Anyhow, back to the reason I called. Do you remember that phone conversation we had right before I fled the country three years ago? JC: Yeah. You said something about coming back to get me, and I said I was looking forward to the re-match. AK. Yes, and then I promised that I\u2019d kill you and that whore you were with if it took me the rest of my life. JC: Right. You better be careful. Kate\u2019s still pissed you called her a whore, and she\u2018s armed. AK: Well, here is her chance to do something about it. Some of my boys in Al Queda need a job done in New York, and I told them I\u2019d do it if they\u2019d help me come over there and kill you and Kate and a few other people I\u2019m still mad at. JC: Oh, we\u2019re still on for that? I was starting to think you forgot. AK: Not a chance. It just took me a little while to put my business case together and get some financial backers lined up. International terrorism and revenge are very expensive enterprises, John. JC: I\u2019m sure. So we\u2019re really doing this? AK: Definitely. JC: Great. How about we threaten and insult each other to get in the mood? AK: Certainly. Go ahead whenever you\u2019re ready. JC: *ahem* You fucking psychopath. I\u2019m going to blow your goddamn brains out. AK: No, you infidel pig! I\u2019m going to kill you. But first I\u2019m going to peel the face of your skull and show it to you. JC: You\u2019re a piece of shit, and I\u2019m going to rip your evil heart out of your chest and eat it. AK: I\u2019m going to cut your godless head off, and you\u2019ll burn in hell for all eternity. JC: Your mother was a whore. AK: Your wife is a whore. (Subjects verbally assualt each other for the next forty-five minutes.) JC: Oh, yeah. This is working. I\u2019m really psyched. How about you? AK: I can\u2019t wait. JC: That stuff about cutting off my face is new. AK: It\u2019s something I picked up in Afghanistan. I\u2019ll demonstrate it on you. JC: I\u2019ll be waiting. AK: See you soon, John. JC: Try not to kill too many people on the way here. End transcript. ***** Geez. This book is so filled with alpha male testosterone that I think I grew a second pair of testicles while reading it. DeMille has been tending towards overstuffing books lately, and this one is no exception. He probably could have cut this book in half by toning down the macho posturing, but he does manage to put a very primal vibe into the conflict between Corey and Khalil. The sense of loathing between the two of them is kept at a nice boil through the book, and pays off in a confrontation that\u2019s savage and brutal. This isn\u2019t the usual good guy and bad guy settling things with a quick-draw gunfight. This is two enemies going completely caveman on each other. My other headache with this one is that I think John Corey is wearing a little thin. Most of DeMille\u2019s protagonists are very similar and Corey is the ultimate version. A cynical, sarcastic, politically incorrect, smart-ass with an anti-authority streak and a New York attitude was fun in the early books like Plum Island , but after five novels, I don\u2019t think Corey is nearly as clever and amusing as DeMille thinks he is. Plus, DeMille\u2019s editor needs to tell him that multiple repetitions of a line make it get tiresome and not funnier. Despite being too long and Corey\u2019s act getting a little stale, this was still a pretty good page turner and a nice follow-up to The Lion\u2019s Game . And it\u2019s a lot better than other recent DeMille stinkers like Night Fall and The Gate House . ...more This book is awesome. If only all fiction flowed this fast then truly would I be in Heaven. Step into the world of John Corey, all time smartass NYC detective who has a quip for every moment and who seems to always manage to solve the most difficult of cases. We were first introduced to him in PLUM ISLAND in which he was recovering from three bullet wounds and on disability leave. Of course, Corey can't keep his nose out of things like any good detective and goes on to investigate a matter relat This book is awesome. If only all fiction flowed this fast then truly would I be in Heaven. Step into the world of John Corey, all time smartass NYC detective who has a quip for every moment and who seems to always manage to solve the most difficult of cases. We were first introduced to him in PLUM ISLAND in which he was recovering from three bullet wounds and on disability leave. Of course, Corey can't keep his nose out of things like any good detective and goes on to investigate a matter related to something mundane like biological warfare. Yeah, right. This tale brings back Corey's greatest antagonist, The Lion, a smooth and most capable terrorist who has returned to get revenge against Corey and others for foiling his plans three years ago (in a previous novel titled LION'S GAME) in which he tried to assassinate all of the pilots who bombed Libya in 1986. Stellar suspense. I finished this novel in less than two weeks. The opening scene is a sky dive with his wife which goes from an adrenaline rush to pure terror. MY GRADE: A minus to A. ...more Rauferei auf Ground Zero Was f\u00fcr ein Schmarren, \u00fcber den fragw\u00fcrdigen Inhalt und die alles andere als zufriedenstellende Gestaltung haben sich ja schon gen\u00fcgend entt\u00e4uschte Fans ausgelassen. Da ich das, anscheinend virtuose, \u201eSpiel des L\u00f6wen\u201c, das diese Pflichtfortsetzung bei public demand geradezu provoziert hat, nicht kenne, sollte sich mein Entsetzen eigentlich in Grenzen halten. Aber schon der Qualit\u00e4tsabfall innerhalb des Buches ist geradezu ersch\u00fctternd. Hat die aus dem Ruder gelaufene Besch Rauferei auf Ground Zero Was f\u00fcr ein Schmarren, \u00fcber den fragw\u00fcrdigen Inhalt und die alles andere als zufriedenstellende Gestaltung haben sich ja schon gen\u00fcgend entt\u00e4uschte Fans ausgelassen. Da ich das, anscheinend virtuose, \u201eSpiel des L\u00f6wen\u201c, das diese Pflichtfortsetzung bei public demand geradezu provoziert hat, nicht kenne, sollte sich mein Entsetzen eigentlich in Grenzen halten. Aber schon der Qualit\u00e4tsabfall innerhalb des Buches ist geradezu ersch\u00fctternd. Hat die aus dem Ruder gelaufene Beschattung eines iranischen Diplomaten noch einen gewissen Pfiff und der Mordanschlag beim Fallschirmsprung auf Coreys Frau, die mit durchgeschnittener Kehle gen Erde trudelt, einen nicht abzuleugnenden Thrill-Faktor, so ist danach schnell die Luft raus. De Milles B\u00fccher sind traditionell mindestens 200 Seiten zu lang, aber so viel totes Holz ist mir selten untergekommen. Nelson De Mille fehlen definitiv ein paar Jahre Praxis als Heftromanschreiber, selbst wenn sein Schluss ein \u00e4hnliches Niveau ansteuert. Mehr noch als der Spannungsverlust haben mich die in dritter Person eingestreuten Handlungsf\u00e4den mit Coreys Gegenspieler Asad Khalil ersch\u00fcttert, der definitiv jeden seiner Helfer nach vollbrachter Aufgabe ins Paradies schickt. Mit dieser Politik der verbrannten Erde, die mehr M\u00e4rtyrer aus eigener Hand produziert als Gegner vernichtet, kann keiner auf Dauer \u00fcberleben, die Botschaft ist klar: alle Amerikaner mit arabischen Wurzeln, die einem Killer wie Khalil helfen, und sei es nur als Taxifahrer, sind Selbstmordattent\u00e4ter per se, auch wenn sie sich nicht selbst in die Luft sprengen wollen. Khalil ist ein Virtuose des T\u00f6tens, der seinen eigentlichen Gegenspieler Corey nicht bei erster Gelegenheit abknallt, sondern ihn erst mal gen\u00fcsslich dabei zuschauen lassen will, wie seine Frau in der Luft verblutet, um dann sp\u00e4ter noch das gro\u00dfe Duell auszufechten, nachdem er ein paar minderbemittelte Figuren aus dem Weg ger\u00e4umt hat. Dergleichen bei\u00dft sich ein wenig mit der Effektivit\u00e4t, mit der er s\u00e4mtliche Helfer eliminiert, um Spuren zu verwischen. Auf dem mit Bomben beladenen Laster auf der Ground-Zero-Baustelle liegen denn auch neben den beiden Wachm\u00e4nnern gleich seine drei Bombenbastler, drei bosnische Untermoslems, die drei Jahre lang f\u00fcr diesen gro\u00dfen Tag unauff\u00e4llig Explosivmaterial gesammelt haben, um nine-eleven noch mal ordentlich zu toppen. So weit, so superlativisch, wie holprig und reich an erz\u00e4hlerischen Leerstellen der Weg zu diesem dramatischen H\u00f6hepunkt auch gewesen sein mag.Doch was kommt dann? !ACHTUNG SPOILER! Der Rohrkrepierer schlechthin: Der mittels einer SMS vom Handy seines an den Kran geh\u00e4ngten Vorgesetzten herbei gelockte Corey bekommt eine Einladung zum Messerduell, an dessen Ende Khalil seinem Gegenspieler erst das Gem\u00e4cht abschneiden und dann die Gesichtshaut abtrennen will. Der Zweikampf selbst, auf den dieses ganze Unget\u00fcm von einem \u201eSpannungsroman\u201c von Anfang an zusteuert, verl\u00e4uft eher auf dem Niveau eines unterdurchschnittlichen Western in dessen Verlauf der B\u00f6sewicht, der so lange als hinterh\u00e4ltiger Killer erfolgreich war, keine echte Chance gegen den Bruce-Willis-Klon Corey hat. Und der ist am Ende sogar froh \u00fcber die paar Stiche im R\u00fccken, die n\u00e4chsten drei Jahre wird er garantiert nicht mehr von seiner Frau zum Fallschirm springen mitgenommen. Ach ja, die letzten paar Seiten darf noch mal ordentlich nachgezittert werden, weil Corey bei der Rauferei ganz vergessen hat, dass es ja noch eine Bombe geben muss. Deshalb brechen er und seine Frau Kate auch noch aus dem Krankenhaus aus, um in der Baugrube von Ground Zero auch nur darauf hoffen zu k\u00f6nnen, dass es keinen zweiten Z\u00fcnder gibt, den das Entsch\u00e4rfungskommando \u00fcbersehen haben k\u00f6nnte. Die Leser l\u00e4sst die Passage ziemlich kalt,sie wissen ja aus der Khalil-Handlung l\u00e4ngst, dass es nur diese eine Batterie gibt. ! SPOILER ENDE Wenn man schon so erz\u00e4hltechnisch schlampig vorgeht und Helden-Ich-Erz\u00e4hler mit einem B\u00f6sewicht in der dritten Person mixt, dann kann man bei einem derart spannungsrelevanten Thema durchaus Mut zur L\u00fccke haben. Zumal De Mille seine Leser auch sonst nicht \u00fcber jedes Morgengebet und jeden n\u00e4chtlichen Klogang Khaliks informiert hat, sondern seinen Schwerpunkt beim Gegner unmissverst\u00e4ndlich auf die Morde gelegt hat. Immerhin kommen mehr Gesinnungsgenossen als Gegner ums Leben, (wenn man zwei Kollateralsch\u00e4den ausklammert). Nelson De Mille h\u00e4tte nicht auf seine Fans h\u00f6ren sollen, zumal er ihnen mit diesem als L\u00f6wen deklarierten Bettvorleger keine allzu gro\u00dfe Freude gemacht hat. Bei der binnen 24 Stunden bew\u00e4ltigten \u201eR\u00fcckkehr nach Spencerville\u201c habe ich noch \u00fcber manche seiner anscheinend typischen Schw\u00e4chen hinweg gesehen, etwa den doppelten Erz\u00e4hlaufwand, bei dem der Leser 200 Seiten fr\u00fcher als der Held wei\u00df, dass ein Sender unter der Sto\u00dfstange klebt. Aber nach diesem als Bonus in meine Sammlung gelangten Rohrkrepierer, der das b\u00f6ser, sadistischer Sheriff - guter Agent-Schema nur variiert, ist dieser St\u00fcmper f\u00fcr mich erledigt. Mit viel gutem Willen k\u00f6nnte man, wegen des guten Starts, vielleicht sogar zwei Sterne geben, aber die erz\u00e4hltechnischen Defizite, die B\u00fccher mit Substanz f\u00fcr bestenfalls 300 Seiten auf das Doppelte aufbl\u00e4hen, sorgen f\u00fcr die H\u00f6chststrafe. ...more If you haven\u2019t yet read The Lion's Game , you really should read it before you read this book. You don\u2019t have to, but it will be a much more satisfying read if you do. The Lion continues the story of John Corey, a New York City homicide police officer who is now working on the Joint Terrorism Task force and his nemesis the uber-terrorist and all out psychotic scary guy, Asad Khalil. At the end of The Lion\u2019s Game (sorry for the mild spoiler) John and Khalil have a standoff. They both vow to kill ea If you haven\u2019t yet read The Lion's Game , you really should read it before you read this book. You don\u2019t have to, but it will be a much more satisfying read if you do. The Lion continues the story of John Corey, a New York City homicide police officer who is now working on the Joint Terrorism Task force and his nemesis the uber-terrorist and all out psychotic scary guy, Asad Khalil. At the end of The Lion\u2019s Game (sorry for the mild spoiler) John and Khalil have a standoff. They both vow to kill each other. Khalil is now back with a vengeance and he is out to kill anyone in his way. And the body count is high in this book. I even started to keep track of the carnage. I absolutely loved John Corey. He just seems like a regular kind of guy. He likes to drink, he\u2019s a bit of an ass, he doesn\u2019t really like authority. John has a great sense of humor \u2013 a little wry, a little ironic. He is cynical, sarcastic, and jaded. He\u2019s exactly who you want protecting you from the crazies of the world. His internal dialogue is priceless at times and a real tension breaker. The author takes you inside the terrorist\u2019s mind. Some sections of the book are told from the terrorist\u2019s point of view. <---A>Nelson DeMille</---A> captures Khalil\u2019s fanaticism and his disdain for the American way of life. Khalil feels repulsed when he sees a homosexual couple in the park. He is disgusted with women\u2019s roles: working outside the home, driving, and immodest dress. Khalil cannot understand the conspicuous consumption of the American people. He compares America to the declining Roman Empire. Khalil is portrayed as the ultimate killing machine, with no remorse, motivated by hate and his own personal jihad. Khalil is, in fact, avenging the death of his family in 1986, systematically killing anyone that had anything to do with his family\u2019s death. He is in the United States on a mission for Al Qaeda, but he has his own personal mission to accomplish first. I was impressed with the depiction of how the terrorist cells work, and how terrorists can travel under the radar. The amount of personnel on the ground arranging items such as weapons, cell phones, travel, and lodging was astounding. I was even more impressed with the way the way that the law enforcement agencies worked together to thwart the threat. The Lion is an exciting and entertaining read. I really could not put the book down. If you haven\u2019t read anything by Nelson DeMille, I recommend that you start with The Lion\u2019s Game. ...more I ordered this to listen to on a trip to visit my kids. I'm chagrined that I wasted the time to listen to this catastrophe of a book. The story is predictable, there is no character development, and no suspense. It is the literary equivalent of reality TV. This is a tiresome and dated book with the usual prototype smart-alec protagonist oozing with testosterone and whose mouth and sarcastic repartee got on my nerves as did his extreme vulgarity. I mean, I am all for realism, but people - at leas I ordered this to listen to on a trip to visit my kids. I'm chagrined that I wasted the time to listen to this catastrophe of a book. The story is predictable, there is no character development, and no suspense. It is the literary equivalent of reality TV. This is a tiresome and dated book with the usual prototype smart-alec protagonist oozing with testosterone and whose mouth and sarcastic repartee got on my nerves as did his extreme vulgarity. I mean, I am all for realism, but people - at least the cops who I know - simply do not talk that way ALL THE TIME. Corey is a vulgar Bruce Willis and I really think that the rule breaking macho guy has been so overplayed in U.S. crime and thriller fiction that I think it's time for a break. Add to this annoying character the incessant blather about 9/11 and simply too many words and I found myself so irritated with it that we skipped to the last disc after disc 6. It was utterly predictable and I suspect that we missed nothing by cutting out 1/3 of the narrative. ...more Excellent audiobook narrated by Scott Brick. Scott also interviews the Author at the end of the book. I was so excited to have this book finally arrive! I love the John Corey books, and this did not disappoint. I don't think it's as good as Lion's Game, but come on, that bar is pretty high. I am stingy with my stars and this isn't quite a five,but I happily give it four. Weak spots: In this book I felt Khalil didn't have any measure of humanity. In the first book, when we learn his story, he still has a spark of some kind of humanity and it made the book more interesting. The brief attraction he I was so excited to have this book finally arrive! I love the John Corey books, and this did not disappoint. I don't think it's as good as Lion's Game, but come on, that bar is pretty high. I am stingy with my stars and this isn't quite a five,but I happily give it four. Weak spots: In this book I felt Khalil didn't have any measure of humanity. In the first book, when we learn his story, he still has a spark of some kind of humanity and it made the book more interesting. The brief attraction he had with the lady pilot for example. . .but in this one, he is just bad to the bone. The final section, with Boris, John, and, well, let's say the truck, seemed a tiny bit pro forma. The scene with Boris was well done, but then the scene with John was a bit anticlimactic. And to have John's boss show up at the end the way he does I guess seemed a bit of a cheat--the last book took such delicious time building up to the killings. That one just kind of happened, but it was probably the only way to do it to get the phone bit to work for the reader. Then, to have John basically save the world from his hospital bed. . . well. . . that was the weakest. I can see that Al Qaida needed Khalil to pay them back for their info and help, but how did he effect that plan? The three guys he killed did it all--they didn't need him at all. They likely would have been successful if it weren't for his involvement! He needed to have found something to try with the Statue of Liberty as he dreamed earlier on, and do more of it himself. On the good side, the sky diving scene in the beginning was ROCKIN'! This book is really screaming to be made into a movie. I can't get enough of Corey's snarkiness. I love this guy. I loved the dig DeMille took when Corey, two years after 9/11, makes the comment that the political infighting affecting ground zero was likely to delay construction for another COUPLE YEARS. Hmmm, yeah, just a couple years! Another favorite scene was the one at 26 FP, when John realizes the after action report that was filed after their first encounter with Khalil was probably not true, and the images held from what information was revealed was also likely not true. I realized that these guys deal in such secrets, and even they don't know what cards are being or have been played. I have to admit, I didn't get the nuance at first; it took me a while, and when I got it, I was furious and how unfair it all was. Seriously, except for the few things I mentioned, I really liked this book, and recommend it highly. It's packed with action and intrigue, and a long simmering vengeance is finally closed. I can sleep at night and know my country is safe. :) ...more Right from the start I just want to say that this novel ROCKED for me. John Carey is a fun character and I am glad to have discovered him finally. I know, where have I been and why haven\u2019t I read his work before? Chalk it up to one of life\u2019s little mysteries. I have seen the movie The General\u2019s Daughter and enjoyed it; I have the novel on my- to read- list now. The beauty of the whole thing is that this is what I enjoy about the different websites we are a part of, finding new stuff to read, the Right from the start I just want to say that this novel ROCKED for me. John Carey is a fun character and I am glad to have discovered him finally. I know, where have I been and why haven\u2019t I read his work before? Chalk it up to one of life\u2019s little mysteries. I have seen the movie The General\u2019s Daughter and enjoyed it; I have the novel on my- to read- list now. The beauty of the whole thing is that this is what I enjoy about the different websites we are a part of, finding new stuff to read, the discovery process. The Lion captured me right from the get go. The banter, the edge, the machismo of John Carey blew me away. The guy is a gamer. Nelson DeMille gets major points from me for his style, prose and gift of continual action and suspense. I like the different vantage points the novel creates for us as he bounces back and forth from Carey to no one\u2019s favorite terrorist, The Lion. The inclusion of the NYPD, FBI, CIA, and the NY State Police was great and the way he had the forces interact was interesting and for the most part, respectful of all parties. I like that. The interagency infighting was minimal; the matter at hand & the capture of the terrorist was foremost on everybody\u2019s mind. Nelson Demille creates a great tale of suspense, intrigue, and action in The Lion. The bad guy, Asad Khalil, is a great bad guy. Instantly able to be disliked, psychotic, zealot, totally flawed and damaged, he is the total bad guy package. Khalil makes it easy to root for John Carey and Company. This is an excellent novel for this time of year, for all the right reasons. The Lion is great read at the beach, poolside, anywhere. Humor, compassion, honesty, patriotism, this novel just has it all. It would be remiss of me not to ask you to put this in your Goodreads \u2013to read- list. I was a bit bent ; the Goodread meter said that this novel had 600 pages. Mine only had 433, and DeMille used every single one of them, to the last word. What are you reading today? Check us out and become our friend on Facebook. Go to Goodreads and become our friend there and suggest books for us to read and post on. You can also follow us on Twitter, Book Blogs, and also look for our posts on Amazon. Did you know you can shop directly on Amazon by clicking the Gelati\u2019s Store Tab on our blog? Thanks for stopping by today; we will see you tomorrow. Have a great day. ...more Damn, this book was intense! The Lion is the follow-up to The Lion's Game, and takes place 3 years later and The Lion (AKA Asad Khalil) is a ruthless Arabian Terrorist who has returned to America to kill John Corey out of revenge for ruining his plans 3 years ago. When I found out that this was a follow-up to The Lion's Game I just wanted to skip Nightfall and Wild Fire and go right to this book to find out what happens next, but I chose to read them in order so I wouldn't be lost. One thing I'll Damn, this book was intense! The Lion is the follow-up to The Lion's Game, and takes place 3 years later and The Lion (AKA Asad Khalil) is a ruthless Arabian Terrorist who has returned to America to kill John Corey out of revenge for ruining his plans 3 years ago. When I found out that this was a follow-up to The Lion's Game I just wanted to skip Nightfall and Wild Fire and go right to this book to find out what happens next, but I chose to read them in order so I wouldn't be lost. One thing I'll say about Asad Khalil was he was one sick bastard, LOL! And once again John Corey still has his sarcastic humor and personality and the story was very riveting! Those who like the John Corey series I recommend reading The Lion's Game before this book. ...more This is my favorite in this series! I absolutely LOVED this one. As I have stated in my reviews from other books in this series, I have read these completely out of order. That is not the norm for me. I have one more to read in this series. I hope that DeMille writes more of these because I cannot get enough of John Corey. He is one of my favorite characters of all time. Great plot, great characters (good guys & the scariest, most psycho villian), & excellent style. Fantastic delivery by This is my favorite in this series! I absolutely LOVED this one. As I have stated in my reviews from other books in this series, I have read these completely out of order. That is not the norm for me. I have one more to read in this series. I hope that DeMille writes more of these because I cannot get enough of John Corey. He is one of my favorite characters of all time. Great plot, great characters (good guys & the scariest, most psycho villian), & excellent style. Fantastic delivery by Scott Brick! He just adds so much to the character of Mr. John Corey. This is an excellent series. ...more Another fabulous book by DeMille. I wish he published a book every week. I just can't get enough. Written for the KAZI Book Review ( http://kazibookreview.wordpress.com/): Nelson DeMille\u2019s latest effort combines humor and violence (not necessarily in that order) with an examination of the clash between Middle Eastern and Western cultures to produce a novel that is both wildly entertaining and frighteningly realistic. The Lion is the sequel to DeMille\u2019s The Lion\u2019s Game, published in 2000, which pitted retired NYC Detective John Corey against Libyan terrorist Asad Khalil, also known as The Lion. Written for the KAZI Book Review ( http://kazibookreview.wordpress.com/): Nelson DeMille\u2019s latest effort combines humor and violence (not necessarily in that order) with an examination of the clash between Middle Eastern and Western cultures to produce a novel that is both wildly entertaining and frighteningly realistic. The Lion is the sequel to DeMille\u2019s The Lion\u2019s Game, published in 2000, which pitted retired NYC Detective John Corey against Libyan terrorist Asad Khalil, also known as The Lion. In this second installment, Khalil is back in the US three years after his last confrontation with Corey, seemingly emboldened by the World Trade Center attacks of September 11. Corey worked closely with FBI Agent Kate Mayfield during the original conflict with Khalil, and something clicked: Corey and Mayfield are now happily married. DeMille uses this to ratchet up the tension further, as Khalil comes back to the U.S. to finish the job Corey and Mayfiled thwarted and adds them to his hit list. Khalil\u2019s astonishing attack on Mayfield not only drives Corey\u2019s actions through the rest of the novel, but it also show\u2019s off DeMille\u2019s skill in writing complex and breathtaking action sequences. To heighten the contrast between the main characters\u2019 respective cultures, DeMille moves between using the first person perspective in the Corey sections and the third person in the Khalil sections. By allowing John Corey to narrate his own sections, DeMille is easily able to show off the dry wit and internal dialogue of his mildly unreliable narrator. This unreliability usually introduces humor to the novel, in stark contrast to the graphic violence that tends to follow Khalil around. The mood definitely changes when the author is following Asad Khalil. The third person narration allows DeMille to examine and describe Khalil clinically, giving these parts a much chillier feel than when we are listening to the detective. The descriptions of Khalil\u2019s actions and methods are precise, brutal and devoid of humor, much like Asad Khalil himself. The Lion takes on larger themes than just a clash between terrorists and the government. One way DeMille uses this story is to look at the endless war on terrorism. His obvious research and attention to detail give the reader an authentic feel of what it is like every day for the men and women whose task it is to keep this country safe. He is able to look at the relationship between Middle Eastern and Western cultures and how this is about more than terrorism\u2014it is about a struggle between two value systems that have difficulty finding a middle ground. By successfully taking on this topic alone, DeMille has established himself as a master of timely, modern fiction. ...more Nelson DeMille\u2019s latest effort \"The Lion\", combines humor and violence with an examination of the clash between Middle Eastern and Western cultures to produce a novel that is both wildly entertaining and frighteningly realistic. The Lion is the sequel to DeMille\u2019s The Lion\u2019s Game, published in 2000, which pitted retired NYC Detective John Corey against Libyan terrorist Asad Khalil, also known as The Lion. In this second installment, Khalil is back in the US three years after his last confrontatio Nelson DeMille\u2019s latest effort \"The Lion\", combines humor and violence with an examination of the clash between Middle Eastern and Western cultures to produce a novel that is both wildly entertaining and frighteningly realistic. The Lion is the sequel to DeMille\u2019s The Lion\u2019s Game, published in 2000, which pitted retired NYC Detective John Corey against Libyan terrorist Asad Khalil, also known as The Lion. In this second installment, Khalil is back in the US three years after his last confrontation with Corey, seemingly emboldened by the World Trade Center attacks of September 11. Corey worked closely with FBI Agent Kate Mayfield during the original conflict with Khalil, and something clicked: Corey and Mayfield are now happily married. DeMille uses this to ratchet up the tension further, as Khalil comes back to the U.S. to finish the job Corey and Mayfiled started and adds them to his hit list. The mood definitely changes when the author is following Asad Khalil. The descriptions of Khalil\u2019s actions and methods are precise, brutal and devoid of humor, much like Asad Khalil himself. The Lion takes on larger themes than just a clash between terrorists and the government. One way DeMille uses this story is to look at the endless war on terrorism. His obvious research and attention to detail give the reader an authentic feel of what it is like every day for the men and women whose task it is to keep this country safe. A very enjoyable read. ...more In a summer of great, long awaited sequels (at least 10 years from original) -- see my reviews of Linda Greenlaw's \"Seaworthy\" and Scott Turow's \"Innocent\" -- Nelson DeMille's sequel to the 2000 \"The Lion's Game\" (reviewed earlier this summer), is a brutal disappointment. In fact, \"The Lion\" only got its second star because of a wonderfully written, over the top, original skydiving scene. Much of what served DeMille so well in the first installment failed or was dropped in this go 'round. The 200 In a summer of great, long awaited sequels (at least 10 years from original) -- see my reviews of Linda Greenlaw's \"Seaworthy\" and Scott Turow's \"Innocent\" -- Nelson DeMille's sequel to the 2000 \"The Lion's Game\" (reviewed earlier this summer), is a brutal disappointment. In fact, \"The Lion\" only got its second star because of a wonderfully written, over the top, original skydiving scene. Much of what served DeMille so well in the first installment failed or was dropped in this go 'round. The 2000 original, set contemporaneously i.e., pre-9-11 was powerfully prescient; the sequel is set in 2003, thus it had reference to 9-11 but is adrift from current political realities and fears. To deal with this, DeMille moved from global political / war on terror motivations to a brutal revenge scenario whereby both his protagonist (John Corey) and antagonist (Asad Khalil) are diminished in the process. Even more off-putting is the author's maintaining the vehicle of flipping back and forth from 1st person narrative (Corey) to 3rd person (Khalil). While, it was fresh in the original, here we have way too much time with the inner monologue of a self-centered, brute (and that's our hero - Corey). It's like spending eternity inside the brain of Sylvester Stallone! Where \"The Lion's Game\" was a chess game of strategy between two strongly committed foes, \"The Lion\" is a blood feud of two homicidal maniacs. I lost count when the body count exceeded 12! Stay away. ...more Mais uma aventura de John Corey, que come\u00e7a com um ritmo vertiginoso, com o regresso de Asad Khalil para se vingar do \u00faltimo piloto que fez parte da esquadra que bombardeou Tripoli quando ele era adolescente e tamb\u00e9m para se vingar de John Corey e os outros agentes do FBI que o perseguiram tr\u00eas anos antes. Asad Khalil regressa com o apoio financeiro da Al-Qaeda e, como tal, tem uma miss\u00e3o terrorista de \"agradecimento\" a cumprir, paralelamente \u00e0 sua vingan\u00e7a pessoal. John Corey, ap\u00f3s v\u00e1rias mortes Mais uma aventura de John Corey, que come\u00e7a com um ritmo vertiginoso, com o regresso de Asad Khalil para se vingar do \u00faltimo piloto que fez parte da esquadra que bombardeou Tripoli quando ele era adolescente e tamb\u00e9m para se vingar de John Corey e os outros agentes do FBI que o perseguiram tr\u00eas anos antes. Asad Khalil regressa com o apoio financeiro da Al-Qaeda e, como tal, tem uma miss\u00e3o terrorista de \"agradecimento\" a cumprir, paralelamente \u00e0 sua vingan\u00e7a pessoal. John Corey, ap\u00f3s v\u00e1rias mortes perpetradas por Asad Khalil, consegue trav\u00e1-lo... para sempre. No final \"tudo est\u00e1 bem quando acaba bem\", mas apenas presumimos que acabou bem, pois n\u00e3o nos \u00e9 dito... ...more Disappointing sequel to The Lion\u2019s Game. The only value is to satisfy your curiosity if you read The Lion\u2019s Game. Do not read this as a stand alone. There were three action scenes in the beginning of the book with Asad killing people. Then the huge middle section of the book felt like filler. Too wordy with political ponderings. Too much internal thinking and monologuing. Too much repetitive thinking about past events. Finally we get some action toward the end. This book would have been better if w Disappointing sequel to The Lion\u2019s Game. The only value is to satisfy your curiosity if you read The Lion\u2019s Game. Do not read this as a stand alone. There were three action scenes in the beginning of the book with Asad killing people. Then the huge middle section of the book felt like filler. Too wordy with political ponderings. Too much internal thinking and monologuing. Too much repetitive thinking about past events. Finally we get some action toward the end. This book would have been better if we could have seen how Asad got his information, how his sources got information, and how Asad and those sources communicated. I did not understand why the authorities did not put Asad\u2019s picture in the newspapers and on TV. Asad is running around the country interacting with people. One scene was kind of unbelievable. Two guys want to kill each other but they throw down their guns in order to fight hand to hand with knives. Scott Brick did a good job as John Corey because Scott does cocky arrogance well. John Corey\u2019s arrogance was written in an entertaining way so it worked. But I\u2019ve given Scott Brick 1 and 2 stars for his narration of other books where he was too arrogant, and it detracted from the book. DATA: Narrative mode: 1st person John Corey, 3rd person other characters and scenes. Unabridged audiobook length: 15 hours and 45 mins. Swearing language: strong including religious swear words, but not often used. Sexual content: none. Setting: 2003 mostly New York City, NY. Book copyright: 2010. Genre: suspense thriller. ...more John Corey is back and has unfinished business with terrorist Asad Khalil. Fans will know him from DeMilles The Lion's Game. One has to get used to all the testosterone, but will quickly enjoy Corey mouthing off on everyone and everything. I was constantly laughing out loud or the very least shaking my had in amusement. Witty dialogue! Please keep the soap away from Corey's mouth a while longer because I enjoyed this book a lot. 5 stars for this entertaining read! Now, I've read some of the other John Corey is back and has unfinished business with terrorist Asad Khalil. Fans will know him from DeMilles The Lion's Game. One has to get used to all the testosterone, but will quickly enjoy Corey mouthing off on everyone and everything. I was constantly laughing out loud or the very least shaking my had in amusement. Witty dialogue! Please keep the soap away from Corey's mouth a while longer because I enjoyed this book a lot. 5 stars for this entertaining read! Now, I've read some of the other reviews. People are complaining about Corey being annoying and the lack of character development. I respectfully disagree. His sarcasm is what makes him such a fun character. Corey keeps the readers on their toes. Of course he can be a pain in the behind. That's exactly what I'm looking for in a book. I need to feel the need to comment on the protagonists behaviour, otherwise it would be a great bore. Spoiler! Detective Ramos confided in me, \u201c If something happens to you on my watch my ass is O-U-T. \u201d \u201c How do you think I\u2019d feel? D-E-A-D. \u201d --- Kate had never been married, so she had no way of knowing if I was a normal husband. This has been good for our marriage. ...more Asad Khalil (aka \"The Lion\"), the ruthless Libyan terrorist who menaced ex-NYPD cop John Corey in The Lion's Game (2000), returns to the U.S. 18 months after 9/11, bent on finishing old business in DeMille's fast-paced fifth John Corey thriller (after Wild Fire). In Los Angeles, Khalil dispatches the last of the eight American pilots who dropped the bombs that killed Khalil's family in the historic 1986 raid on Tripoli. In New York City, a daring encounter with Corey, a member of the federal Ant Asad Khalil (aka \"The Lion\"), the ruthless Libyan terrorist who menaced ex-NYPD cop John Corey in The Lion's Game (2000), returns to the U.S. 18 months after 9/11, bent on finishing old business in DeMille's fast-paced fifth John Corey thriller (after Wild Fire). In Los Angeles, Khalil dispatches the last of the eight American pilots who dropped the bombs that killed Khalil's family in the historic 1986 raid on Tripoli. In New York City, a daring encounter with Corey, a member of the federal Anti-Terrorist Task Force, and Corey's FBI agent wife, Kate Mayfield, who's also a member of the ATTF, sets the stage for the mano a mano struggle both Corey and Khalil crave. DeMille splices gripping action scenes with accounts of Khalil's horrifically inventive attacks and the ATTF's futile countermeasures. While Corey isn't much more appealing than his foe, those who enjoy starkly black-and-white battles between good and evil will be satisfied. Copyright \u00a9 Reed Business Information, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Another good story from DeMille. ...more Having read four previous John Corey novels, I didn't need much persuading to like The Lion's Game. DeMille's practice of counterpointing violent and often evil events with his protagonist's weakness for the flippant wisecrack is not an easy trick to pull off, but he is able to make it work. Unsurprisingly, some of the jokes are better than others (\"Have you experience of terrorism? I was married.\") It is a pity that other reviewers have divulged rather a lot of the plot; suffice it to say that, Having read four previous John Corey novels, I didn't need much persuading to like The Lion's Game. DeMille's practice of counterpointing violent and often evil events with his protagonist's weakness for the flippant wisecrack is not an easy trick to pull off, but he is able to make it work. Unsurprisingly, some of the jokes are better than others (\"Have you experience of terrorism? I was married.\") It is a pity that other reviewers have divulged rather a lot of the plot; suffice it to say that, from a clever opening involving a strange occurrence with a passenger jet incoming to JFK, it pits Corey against a ferociously committed foreign killer with a mission. There are good surprises. There is nothing new in cross-referencing characters and events from the author's previous books, and it didn't bother me as it has some, but the book's ending is far from what might have been anticipated. Full marks for that. ...more I do like the way Nelson DeMille writes his main characters. John Corey is a snot. He's sarcastic, he's rude, he's basically a brat. While I don't love his as a character in the \"he's just so loveable\" sense, I am so impressed with the way DeMille commits 100% to the personality of this caracter. He doesn't just bring out the sarcasm in the dialog when Corey talks, but it is throughout his actions, his thinking - there is no doubt in anyones mind of Corey's character. I appreciate that about DeM I do like the way Nelson DeMille writes his main characters. John Corey is a snot. He's sarcastic, he's rude, he's basically a brat. While I don't love his as a character in the \"he's just so loveable\" sense, I am so impressed with the way DeMille commits 100% to the personality of this caracter. He doesn't just bring out the sarcasm in the dialog when Corey talks, but it is throughout his actions, his thinking - there is no doubt in anyones mind of Corey's character. I appreciate that about DeMille's writing. He writes about John Sutton in the Gold Coast series the same way - the character is funny and not exactly loveable but totally predictable and true. An anti-terrorist story, this was a good read. However, if you actually have to really \"love\" or relate to your main character, you may not love this book. ...more Signed and personalized first edition. This is the sequel to Lions Game that I waited a good 7 years for. It was very good as it furthers the John vs. Asad game that started years before. I liked it a lot but (sadly) wasn't as nutso as I was about Lions game. First because halfway through the book I got an email from Mr. Demille/hachette talking about the next corey book (so clearly asad was the loser in the lion) and 2nd because I found it lacking the depth of asad that the first book was so ful Signed and personalized first edition. This is the sequel to Lions Game that I waited a good 7 years for. It was very good as it furthers the John vs. Asad game that started years before. I liked it a lot but (sadly) wasn't as nutso as I was about Lions game. First because halfway through the book I got an email from Mr. Demille/hachette talking about the next corey book (so clearly asad was the loser in the lion) and 2nd because I found it lacking the depth of asad that the first book was so full of. That, to me, made lions game scary-a peek into the mind of a terrorist mad man and what made him tick. I really missed that in this book. all in all a great fast paced read. ...more I too received an advance copy of this book, before it was released. I enjoy all of this authors works, but mostly his earlier works. Sadly, I feel he is resting a bit on his well earned laurels. The book read like it was almost an afterthought, with very little new character development and almost no plot twists. It was a nice read, but more of a palate cleanser than the satisfying meal which this author is capable of delivering. I long for the likes of The Charm School, The Generals Daughter, I too received an advance copy of this book, before it was released. I enjoy all of this authors works, but mostly his earlier works. Sadly, I feel he is resting a bit on his well earned laurels. The book read like it was almost an afterthought, with very little new character development and almost no plot twists. It was a nice read, but more of a palate cleanser than the satisfying meal which this author is capable of delivering. I long for the likes of The Charm School, The Generals Daughter, and ever Spencerville. ...more This novel first involves John Corey and his wife in a sky diving event in the Borscht Belt of the Catskills near where we lived in Ulster County of New York State although \"The Lion\" had already wreaked havoc out of the Santa Barbara airport in California. I continue to enjoy the caustic humor of John Corey and appreciate he and his wife's triumphs out of devastating catastrophes! Listened to this as an audio book and the reader was excellent. He brought John Corey to life just the way I had imagined him. The story was fast paced and I was glad to see the end to Asad. Now onto The Panther. Love Nelson DeMilles dry wit and fast-paced action.Reading this book was like watching a scary movie,I'd slam it shut,get up and walk around a little to get my courage up...the start reading..Couldn't put it down for too long. Really enjoyed this one, as has been the case with the rest of the series. There were a few gruesome scenes described in detail that I would have skimmed through a little faster had I been reading this instead of listening to the audio book. John Corey is such a badass. I can't believe I actually \"forgot\" I read \"The Lion\"! Ha!!! I always love Nelson DeMille! Maybe I've read one too many of his books.... hummm? I will be so sad when this series ends. This was probably my favorite so far. I'm a bit obsessed with John Corey. Two more books to go in this series! If you read the first 25 chapters and then skip to the last 4 chapters, you won't miss anything other than John's wise cracks and complaining about his bosses. I'm a big fan of Nelson DeMille, as well as his character John Corey. I always enjoy his wit, and the various twists and turns w/his plots. Another very enjoyable read from him!", "Title": "The Lion"},
