{"Comments": "Like so many students,<---M> Philby confused communism with a great levelling</---M>, an equality among men. So when recruited at 18 by MI6, he sees it as his opportunity to give Russia a helping hand. To be a spy in Britain at that time, you had to be from a certain background, with the essential confidence of being at the top of the social tree. This is what enabled him to get away with, quite literally, murder, for years. One doesn't question one's friends does one? They are all such decent chaps! Like fu Like so many students, Philby confused communism with a great levelling, an equality among men. So when recruited at 18 by MI6, he sees it as his opportunity to give Russia a helping hand. To be a spy in Britain at that time, you had to be from a certain background, with the essential confidence of being at the top of the social tree. This is what enabled him to get away with, quite literally, murder, for years. One doesn't question one's friends does one? They are all such decent chaps! Like fuck they were. There was a coterie of them, the Cambridge Five, Philby was one. The others were Guy Burgess, Anthony Blunt (<---B>a cousin of the Queen Mother</---B>) and Donald MacLean. Who the fifth was is a matter of conjecture still. The book was well-researched and well-written, a thorough biography of the charismatic, fascinating and clever Philby. Charm and good looks are always difficult to accept in a villain. Evil people are not supposed to look like the handsome prince, but Philby did, and that also played a part in keeping suspicion away from him. Much is made of Philby's personal attributes, much of his betrayal of his country, but perhaps not enough of the many people who were killed directly because of his actions. Anyone who is responsible for a lot of people murdered by the state in their pursuit of a political or religious purpose is evil. Just because he personally didn't shoot the gun or stab with the poisoned umbrella doesn't make him less culpable. Philby a murderer, from a comfortable distance is all. Nonetheless, it is a very good book indeed. A cabal of spies, espionage and intrigue, a handsome anti-hero, romantic locations...<---F> almost the plot of a film</---F>. ...more Deceit, disinformation, dissembling, deaths, doubts, dismay, discovery, debriefing, defection, disbelief. Definitely dazzling... How amused and flattered the infamous British traitor Kim Philby would be to discover he is again the subject of fascinated scrutiny in his home country and in America fifty years after his defection to Moscow. Ben MacIntyre has managed to reignite interest in Philby by presenting the most rounded and detailed picture yet of this uniquely talented and duplicitous man with the use of newly declassified material from MI6 files. Kim Philby rose within the ranks of British Intelligence and gave secr How amused and flattered the infamous British traitor Kim Philby would be to discover he is again the subject of fascinated scrutiny in his home country and in America fifty years after his defection to Moscow. Ben MacIntyre has managed to reignite interest in Philby by presenting the most rounded and detailed picture yet of this uniquely talented and duplicitous man with the use of newly declassified material from MI6 files. Kim Philby rose within the ranks of British Intelligence and gave secrets to the Soviets during WWII and at the beginning of the Cold War. The outwardly charming diplomat was responsible for the deaths of possibly hundreds of covert agents working in British interests. The especial charm he radiated may have come from his \u201cflashes of insecurity beneath his debonair exterior, the unpredictable stammer\u2026his intellectual curiosity\u2026and his old-world manners.\u201d [Yuri Modin] But reading about a man whose great skill was \u201ccharm\u201d falls strangely flat without access to the man himself; it is a little like trying to describe the performance of a great actor. In order for the reading audience to really understand how this man escaped censure for so long, we need to see the man in action. Fortunately, Macintyre seems to have understood this and the publication of his book in Britain was accompanied by a two-part BBC documentary showing essential photographs and a (too short) video clip of Philby\u2019s 1955 demurral of his involvement with earlier defectors Burgess and Maclean. Macintyre calls the videotaped press conference a \u201cvirtuoso performance\u201d revealing a master of duplicity and misdirection, yet he shows us only a fraction of its contents. The November \u201955 press conference is apparently still used as a MI6 training tool: \u201ca master class in mendacity.\u201d One other audio record of Kim Philby we know exists: Philby\u2019s debriefing in 1963 Beirut by his longtime friend and colleague, <---C>Nicholas Elliott</---C>. We need to hear, not just read, this interview in order to make our own assessment of Philby\u2019s extraordinary charm and manipulative skill, but that debriefing is still being withheld by MI6. For these reasons, Macintyre\u2019s description of Philby\u2019s legendary rise within the ranks of British Intelligence is incomplete and two-dimensional, despite the fulsome detail that is far more exciting than any fiction. It still boggles the mind that Philby was allowed the access he was; only his particular personality can explain that access. People who knew Philby often used the same words to describe Philby\u2019s effect on people, which only serves to further occlude our vision of the man and his talent. Like the story of the blind man and the elephant, this biography catches some truths but the reader has the disconcerting feeling that the man himself has once again absconded with his secrets intact. One could argue that good nonfiction cannot answer every question but is successful if it impels a reader to avidly seek out additional materials in the subject area. By this standard, MacIntyre\u2019s book succeeds admirably. While at first I was entranced by MacIntyre\u2019s concurrent descriptions of Philby\u2019s work for British Intelligence and his work for the Soviet Comintern, by the end of MacIntyre\u2019s book I had more questions than answers about Philby and the reaction to him in Britain. MacIntyre also, in order to propel the narrative I suppose, was a bit sketchy with dates. I needed some basic scaffolding to support my queries. To fill in some of the holes in my understanding, I found the gossipy 1980 history by Douglas Sutherland, The Great Betrayal: The Definitive Story of Blunt, Philby, Burgess, and MacLean , a useful addition to MacIntyre\u2019s since it came at the material from a different angle, and gave me a more solid understanding of the thinking in MI5 and -6. That MI6 did not react to Philby\u2019s betrayal in the way we might expect--by jailing Philby, for instance\u2014was something I needed to understand more fully. Sutherland\u2019s analysis was \u201cthat under no circumstances could we have afforded to put [Philby] on trial. He was a man of immense ambition, hungry for power and with a mental dexterity which made him a very formidable character\u2026he might have convinced a jury that he was the innocent victim of a witch hunt\u2026\u201d MacIntyre makes the point that the spy agencies in Britain couldn\u2019t go through a drawn-out trial revealing the vast amount of damage Philby had wreaked upon them. So they stood by and let him defect to Moscow. Sutherland\u2019s account helped me to grasp that in those days the British government had a completely different reaction than the average citizen might expect to the discovery that some of their intelligence agents were spies. In some ways those defections, identified by former KGB Controller Yuri Modin in his book My Five Cambridge Friends: Burgess, Maclean, Philby, Blunt, and Cairncross by Their KGB Controller , shaped the government we have and the people we are today. Loss of faith by government, and in government are two different things. Kim Philby, charismatic British traitor, had something to do with both. Another thing I needed to understand after reading MacIntyre\u2019s history was what spies actually do. I believe MacIntyre expects us to already understand this and he is not going to be the one to reveal any real secrets. The spies in this book don\u2019t act like my idea of spies, and the government that uncovers them doesn\u2019t act like any government I\u2019ve known. These spies spend a great deal of time drinking and carousing with other spies, and everyone seems to know who they are. The only ones that appear to use spy craft are those acting as double agents. And our drunken spies don\u2019t reveal anything either, according to MacIntyre, except to each other. Yuri Modin ran five British spies for only a short time (1948-1951) but he is frank in what makes a successful spy: \u201cI know from experience that a high IQ should never be the main criterion for recruiting the average secret agent\u2026On the other hand, certain other qualities\u2026are absolutely essential for a spy\u2026he should have a childish, gleeful, mischievous side to his nature\u2026I also believe that a good intelligence agent should have a strong political awareness. [A good agent will] possess physical and moral strength\u2026being in good physical shape will help him stand up to all kinds of peculiarly nasty pressures\u2026[and] will help him to view problems with complete clarity\u2026\u201d Philby was a long-term penetration agent working in Soviet interests, \u201cprobably the best ever.\u201d MacIntyre also points out the insular world of spies at the time shared the common vocabulary of public schools, private clubs, and high-born parents. Many simply could not conceive that \u2018one of their own\u2019 could or would deceive them so completely for so long. I expect that has changed now. This is a blood-curdling story of deception and intrigue, one that must be read alongside the documentary. It is an unsettling, but essential read. An advance of this title was sent to me as part of First Reads from librarything.com and Netgalley.com. The advance does not have photographs, but I understand the hardcopy, when it is released in the United States in July 2014, will have pictures of the personalities featured in this book. ...more I read A Spy Amongst Friends by <---A>Ben Macintyre</---A> all the way through to the last page of the bibliography. Actually, I read the two pages after that. It's what you do when you can't bear for the story to end. And I already knew the end of this story, but I knew just enough to not know much at all. Really excellent book. Writing non-fiction which has more dazzle and suspense than any novel is a gift. To do it over and over as Mr. Macintyre has done is just pure talent. I researched James Jesus Angle I read A Spy Amongst Friends by Ben Macintyre all the way through to the last page of the bibliography. Actually, I read the two pages after that. It's what you do when you can't bear for the story to end. And I already knew the end of this story, but I knew just enough to not know much at all. Really excellent book. Writing non-fiction which has more dazzle and suspense than any novel is a gift. To do it over and over as Mr. Macintyre has done is just pure talent. I researched James Jesus Angleton for my last book, The Kennedy Endeavor, and knew he was a broken man-- just one 'among the friends'. If you want to understand the depths of despair that one human being can cause another without causing them the slightest physical blemish--this is the book. Maybe the worst thing is to murder someone's soul. ...more (for a more in-depth look at what I think about this book, feel free to journey on over to the nonfiction section of my online reading journal ). I'll post my review of this book here because LibraryThing and the publishers sent me this edition, but I have to make a sort of embarrassing confession: I received an advanced reading copy of this book from the publisher, but couldn't get started on it right away so I set it aside to be picked up later. When I was ready to read it, which was like 2 wee (for a more in-depth look at what I think about this book, feel free to journey on over to the nonfiction section of my online reading journal ). I'll post my review of this book here because LibraryThing and the publishers sent me this edition, but I have to make a sort of embarrassing confession: I received an advanced reading copy of this book from the publisher, but couldn't get started on it right away so I set it aside to be picked up later. When I was ready to read it, which was like 2 weeks ago, I went to find it, and it was nowhere. It had just disappeared. I looked through each and every bookshelf and each and every book to find it (which in my case, is like looking for a needle in a haystack), and it didn't turn up. I went to find one on Amazon and to my horror discovered that the book is not scheduled for publication until July. Then I went into full-on panic mode because I had committed to reading this for LibraryThing's early reviewers' program for April so I bought a new, UK copy of <+++>A Spy Among Friends: Kim Philby and the Great Betrayal</+++> . Considering the pound to dollar conversion rate, I ended up paying about $40 for my stupidity. But I will say this: it was worth every penny I spent on it and more. A Spy Among Friends , which is, in Macintyre's words, \"not another biography of Kim Philby,\" ... \"less about politics, ideology and accountability than personality, character, and a very British relationship that has never been explored before.\" Macintyre notes also that the \"book does not purport to be the last word on Kim Philby,\" but rather \"it seeks to tell his story in a different way, through the prism of personal friendship...\" and his work succeeds on every possible level: impeccable research, the very-well developed investigation of Kim Philby's dual character, and frankly, despite the fact that it's nonfiction, it reads like a highly-polished, top-tier espionage novel, making it reader-friendly for anyone at all interested in the subject. Macintyre's account brings new life to this very old and well-covered story: he sets Philby's story among friends, most notably Nicholas Elliott of MI6 and James Jesus Angleton (who had met Philby in London at the age of 24, and for whom Philby right away became \"an elder-brother figure), who ultimately became an ultra-high ranking member of the CIA. Both men trusted Philby implicitly and both refused to believe that he was a spy the first time he came under suspicion after the defections of Maclean and Burgess. As Macintyre examines the respective careers of the three high-level spies, their social interactions, their proximity to each other over the course of their work as spies, and their ties to upper-class British society with its private clubs, the best schools, etc., he also establishes how easy it was for the trusted Philby to carry away much highly-secret information and hand it over to his Soviet contacts. As Macintyre notes, one of the \"weaknesses\" within the intelligence community was how natural it was to trade information, since agents are not able to share it with anyone outside of their small circle. Philby, a big drinker, boozed it up with Angleton, for example, during lunches in Washington DC when after being transferred there as MI6 chief (selected by Angleton himself); Angleton and Philby exchanged info while drinking bourbon, eating lobster, and having cigars at the end. In one particular Albanian operation that ended in possibly hundreds of deaths, Macintyre notes that \"Lunch at Harvey's restaurant came with a hefty bill.\" Philby's relationship with Elliott was one of even stronger ties and a stronger long-term friendship; Elliott would have never in a million years banked on Philby, with whom he shared his secrets, as putting those secrets to \"murderous use.\" Throughout this entire book, Macintyre focuses on Philby's \"two faces,\" his dual nature as a \"double-sided man,\" where \"One side is open to family and friends and everyone around them,..the other belongs only to himself and his secret work.\" As much as friends and family thought they knew him, the real truth was that \"Philby was spying on everyone, and no one was spying on him, because he fooled them all.\" Among other things, Macintyre also examines the effects on the friends and family left in the wake of Philby's betrayals, the divisions between MI5 and MI6, and the results in human terms of Philby's work in passing along info to the Soviets. A Spy Among Friends is extremely well written, and even though it's a work of nonfiction, the story kept me on edge up until the last minute. In fact, one of the most eye-opening sections of this book is at the point where Philby's been outed in 1963, and Nick, Philby's biggest supporter, takes it upon himself to be the one to get him to confess. If this conversation hadn't been recorded, one would think it was the work of a master spy novelist. Then, when Macintyre has written his last word, the reader comes upon a short, but wonderful afterword by John LeCarr\u00e9 that the reader should absolutely not miss. In fact, anyone who's even remotely interested in Kim Philby, or anyone who has enjoyed Macintyre's previous work should not miss this book -- it is simply stellar. ...more For Americans, the name \"Benedict Arnold\" is synonymous with traitor. (Arnold was an officer in the Continental Army with a distinguished combat record during the American War of Independence who later changed sides and fought with the British.) Taken in the larger context of the Cold War, the same can be said for Harold Adrian Russell Philby - aka Kim Philby. Philby was one of those men of Britain's interwar generation hailing from a privileged class who, upon graduating from Oxford or Cambridg For Americans, the name \"Benedict Arnold\" is synonymous with traitor. (Arnold was an officer in the Continental Army with a distinguished combat record during the American War of Independence who later changed sides and fought with the British.) Taken in the larger context of the Cold War, the same can be said for Harold Adrian Russell Philby - aka Kim Philby. Philby was one of those men of Britain's interwar generation hailing from a privileged class who, upon graduating from Oxford or Cambridge, were expected to make their mark upon the world and lead it. In Philby's case, as the son of a distinguished, eccentric and distant father, he learned early how to ingratiate and endear himself with people. In his early 20s, Philby became a convert to Soviet Communism and devoted his life in service to the Soviet Union. What is remarkable in Philby's case is how he was able for close to 30 years to live, in effect, two lives. The one of an urbane, witty, charming, and suave Englishman (who rose to the highest ranks of Britain's MI6, which is analogous to the CIA) --- coupled with that of a Soviet spy --- a mole --- who faithfully served Moscow Centre by compromising a whole host of Allied/Western espionage operations dating from the Second World War to the early 1960s (when he defected to Moscow). In reading this book, I was amazed at how the British \"old boy network\" operated in terms of both promoting and protecting its own in its intelligence services (MI5 and MI6). The following observations made by the author I found both interesting and startling --- \"... Philby's life developed a pattern of duality, in which he consistently undermined his own work, but never aroused suspicion. He made elaborate plans to combat Soviet intelligence, and then immediately betrayed them to Soviet intelligence; he urged ever greater efforts to combat the communist threat, and personified that threat; his own section worked smoothly, yet nothing quite succeeded.\" \"During the war, the Bletchley Park decoders had enabled Britain to discover what German intelligence was doing. Philby's espionage went one better: he could tell his Soviet handlers what Britain's spymasters were intending to do, before they did it; he could tell Moscow what London was thinking.\" This is a book that provides the reader with \"a chilling examination of how far anyone can ever really know another human being.\" ...more Alternately gripping and hilarious. Reads like Le Carre and Wodehouse by turns. Astonishing story fluently told by McIntyre. A treat Brilliant, absolutely brilliant! How\u2019s this for knowing how to organise your material? Ben McIntyre\u2019s book opens with the confrontation between Kim Philby, MI6 agent and of course Soviet spy, and Nicholas Elliot, one of Philby\u2019s closest friends and now the man sent to Beirut to break him. Ten years earlier, when suspicions of spying had first attached themselves to Philby, it was Elliot who was his strongest defender. As the decade went on, Elliot remained Philby\u2019s champion and staunchest support Brilliant, absolutely brilliant! How\u2019s this for knowing how to organise your material? Ben McIntyre\u2019s book opens with the confrontation between Kim Philby, MI6 agent and of course Soviet spy, and Nicholas Elliot, one of Philby\u2019s closest friends and now the man sent to Beirut to break him. Ten years earlier, when suspicions of spying had first attached themselves to Philby, it was Elliot who was his strongest defender. As the decade went on, Elliot remained Philby\u2019s champion and staunchest supporter. It was Elliot who actually got Philby paid work again from MI6. But now the evidence was there to really prove the betrayal and so it was Elliot\u2019s job to confront Philby and get his full confession. We open then with a scene then of unparalleled tension. This is a confrontation that most dramatists would sell their first born child to create, or at least sacrifice a number of fingers \u2013 but this also a confrontation which actually happened. From there McIntyre flashes backwards to look at the younger Philby and Elliot. Two men with similar school lives (one went to Westminster, the other Eton), identical university (Cambridge, of course) and then both using the old school tie and connections to get themselves into MI6. McIntyre really captures this very English (and English of a certain class) whirl of the secret service, bringing Wartime and post-War MI6 to life as he captures the natures and personalities of these two men. One swore his life to the crown and country and is determined to beat the Communist menace; the other is outwardly exactly the same, but underneath so utterly and disgustingly duplicitous. The former can\u2019t see the latter\u2019s flaws, as how could a man with the same education, background and membership of all these clubs possibly be a spy? It just wouldn\u2019t be British. Philby comes across as a contemptible human being. The reader is informed again and again as to his incredible charm, but we also know what he was really up to and that level of sheer betrayal becomes skin crawling. Even though most people reading this book will know the broad outlines of the story, the average reader is still going to wish that Philby\u2019s incredible luck fails and that he\u2019ll be caught much, much sooner. The average reader is going to be frustrated with the old boy\u2019s network letting him get away with so much, keeping defending him even when the evidence piles up, just because he went to the right school and had the right people. So many men and women died and so many lives were ruined because of Philby, and it\u2019s incredible that even after he was revealed and forced to defect, he still considered himself a great friend to those he betrayed. In a way the book\u2019s focus does echo its protagonists\u2019 belief that they are the chosen ones. That because of their education and their old school scarf, they are good eggs and know what\u2019s what. Those from a lower class and not members of the right clubs are inferior in the eyes of Philby and Elliot and MI6, and seemingly in the eyes of the book as they rarely intrude into the narrative. Okay, it would be extraordinarily hard to write a book about Kim Philby without focusing on Kim Philby; while Elliot, through the force of his personality and the fact it was he who actually confronted Philby, forces himself to be a major part of the story. But one could ask: where\u2019s Dick White\u2019s story? Dick White was a former MI5 man who first confronted Philby, remained absolutely convinced of his guilt, and was head of MI6 when he was finally exposed? Where\u2019s his tale? The tale of the man who was right all along, but just didn\u2019t have the same pedigree as the others. I quibble though. I raced through this book and in reality wouldn\u2019t change a page of it. ...more Review originally posted on BookLikes: http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/... \u2018I have always operated on two levels, a personal level and a political one. When the two have come into conflict I have had to put politics first.\u2019 \u2013 Kim Philby At what cost to others, though? And to what end? Ben Macintyre has gone into a great level of detail to describe Kim Philby's life and provide a background to the circumstances of his defection. However, it is still impossible to know what reasons Philby had fo Review originally posted on BookLikes: http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/... \u2018I have always operated on two levels, a personal level and a political one. When the two have come into conflict I have had to put politics first.\u2019 \u2013 Kim Philby At what cost to others, though? And to what end? Ben Macintyre has gone into a great level of detail to describe Kim Philby's life and provide a background to the circumstances of his defection. However, it is still impossible to know what reasons Philby had for leaking secrets to the Soviet Union and what made him betray everything he knew. Was it the illusion of communism as a viable alternative to Western society and politics? It is hard to fathom; especially now when have disclosure of the workings of the Soviet regime. Unfortunately, the history surrounding Philby (and the other Cambridge Spies) is somewhat tainted by the propaganda which has been published by both sides in the wake of Philby\u2019s defection, and although Macintyre\u2019s excellent research aims to balance the records made available by both sides, ultimately no one can say for certain where fiction ends and fact begins: \"Philby died in a Moscow hospital on 11 May 1988. He was given a grand funeral with a KGB honour guard, buried at Kuntsevo cemetery outside Moscow, and lauded for his \u2018tireless struggle in the cause of peace and a brighter future\u2019. He was commemorated with a Soviet postage stamp. In 2011, the Russian foreign intelligence service put up a plaque with two faces of Kim Philby facing one another in profile, an inadvertently apt monument to a man with two sides to his head. Elliott hatched a plan for a different sort of memorial. He recommended to MI6 that Philby be awarded the CMG, the order of St Michael and St George, the sixth most prestigious award in the British honours system, awarded to men and women who render extraordinary or important non-military service in a foreign country. Elliott further suggested that he write a signed obituary note to accompany the award, in which he would say only: \u2018My lips have hitherto been sealed but I can now reveal that Philby was one of the bravest men I have ever known.\u2019 The implication would be clear to Moscow: Philby had been acting for Britain all along; he was not a valiant Soviet double agent, but a heroic British triple agent, and Elliott had been his spymaster. The idea that Philby had fooled the KGB would cause \u2018a tremendous fluttering in the dovecotes of the Lubyanka\u2019, Elliott wrote, and inflict the most gratifying posthumous revenge. It would be a splendid tease at Philby\u2019s expense, to which he could have no answer. Elliott\u2019s proposal was turned down. The new-style MI6 did not do jokes.\" ...more (view spoiler) [ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler) ] This is labelled as a bestseller but I struggled to really get into it. The first half of the book is so full of names and details about each person mentioned that it was hard to keep track of what was going on. It felt disjointed and it wasn't easy to see how all the facts and people hung together. There was too much information about some seemingly irrelevant figures that confused the main story. In short, it wasn't especially readable and I nearly gave up. I'm glad I finished it as the second This is labelled as a bestseller but I struggled to really get into it. The first half of the book is so full of names and details about each person mentioned that it was hard to keep track of what was going on. It felt disjointed and it wasn't easy to see how all the facts and people hung together. There was too much information about some seemingly irrelevant figures that confused the main story. In short, it wasn't especially readable and I nearly gave up. I'm glad I finished it as the second half was much more coherent and focused more on the two or three main characters and honed in on Philby, the master spy who committed the great betrayal. I believe this is a bestseller primarily due to the subject matter as I can see why this story would appeal to readers all across the genres. It is really an unbelievable and unique account of the worldwide spy and intelligence network during and after the second world war. I found it especially hard to believe that so many seemingly intelligent educated British men were so easily recruited by the KGB to serve the evil purposes of communism and that some of them continued to serve this purpose even after some of these evils had been widely exposed. It is tragic but in some ways fitting that those spies that sought refuge in Moscow rather than face trial in Britain, ended their days as loners trusted by neither country and no doubt hounded by their collective conscience....or maybe not. The language wasn't as bad as I have read in other books recently but there is enough swearing for me to comment on it. There is no graphic violence although numerous deaths. There are a few sexual jokes/references but nothing graphic. Some readers might enjoy this if you can make it past the boring first chapters to get more of a grip on the story and characters for the latter ones. ...more Incredible true story about a master spy who had a tremendous impact on operations in British, American, and Soviet intelligence. Graham Greene, John Le Carre, and Ian Fleming all knew him personally, and surely he inspired something in their future spy novels. This is a story that's been told before, this man is a legend, but the author is able to dig deeper into declassified documents and notes Le Carre took from Eliot decades earlier. I listened to the audio read by John Lee who has such an ol Incredible true story about a master spy who had a tremendous impact on operations in British, American, and Soviet intelligence. Graham Greene, John Le Carre, and Ian Fleming all knew him personally, and surely he inspired something in their future spy novels. This is a story that's been told before, this man is a legend, but the author is able to dig deeper into declassified documents and notes Le Carre took from Eliot decades earlier. I listened to the audio read by John Lee who has such an old fashioned voice. It worked for this book. ...more Ben Macintyre is a great writer and, in this latest book, he has turned his attention to Kim Philby \u2013 one of the Cambridge Spies. Historically, this book may not offer much that is new, but it does tell the story from a different viewpoint ; that of his friendships, most notably with Nicholas Elliott. In other words, this is not really a straight-forward biography of Philby, but focuses on his personality and on the Old Boy network that enabled him to evade detection for so long. The book begins Ben Macintyre is a great writer and, in this latest book, he has turned his attention to Kim Philby \u2013 one of the Cambridge Spies. Historically, this book may not offer much that is new, but it does tell the story from a different viewpoint ; that of his friendships, most notably with Nicholas Elliott. In other words, this is not really a straight-forward biography of Philby, but focuses on his personality and on the Old Boy network that enabled him to evade detection for so long. The book begins with the meeting between Philby and Elliott in Beirut in January, 1963, with Elliott confronting his former friend about his betrayal of his country and trying to obtain a confession. He must certainly have felt betrayed personally too, as he had done much to protect Philby from earlier suspicions by MI5 \u2013 defending and helping him when he was in difficulty. This fascinating account looks at the early life of both men, their meeting during WWII and their career in the Secret Intelligence Service. Kim Philby was, from the beginning, a Soviet agent. Along with the Cambridge Spies; Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean, Anthony Blunt and John Cairncross, he was so successful that his Soviet spymasters suspected him of being a double agent. As well as being a close friend of Elliott, he also became the mentor of James Jesus Angleton, an American and one of the most powerful spies in history. The Old Boy network which had brought both Elliott and Philby into the intelligence service meant that while agents were secretive outside of their immediate circle, they were horribly indiscreet within it, trusting on bonds of class and social networking to protect them. During this book, we read of Elliott\u2019s and Philby\u2019s career, and personal life, including the jaw dropping appointment of Philby as head of the Soviet Section. As the Second World War ended and the Cold War began, Philby was able to inform Moscow of exactly what Britain was doing to counter Soviet espionage and, indeed, their own espionage efforts against Moscow. There is no doubt that Philby\u2019s actions were an odd mix of defiant belief in the Soviet Union and an inability to take responsibility for his own actions. His passing of information to his Soviet masters led to many people losing their lives. Yet, despite his own reluctance to finally defect to Russia (he called himself a \u2018Russian\u2019 but lived there as an almost stereotypical Englishman) he was insistent that he had carried out instructions out of a (misguided) loyalty and was seemingly untroubled about the, often terrible, consequences. Also, although he was constantly loyal to Russia, he rarely spoke of politics. It was as though, having decided on his beliefs, he simply put them out of his mind and stayed true to them, despite any conflicting, or disturbing, evidence \u2013 such as the disappearance of successive Soviet spymasters that he looked up to and respected. As Kim Philby\u2019s life descended into the drama of defection, Macintyre asks whether he was, in fact, allowed to escape. Would his possible trial been such an embarrassment to the British government that he was simply given the chance to leave? However, the real core of this book is his friendship with Nicholas Elliott and the two men are almost given equal space. Angleton comes to the fore when Philby is in the States, and is important to the book, but the central relationship was Philby and Elliott. Personally, I found this a really interesting read and there is an enjoyable afterword, written by John le Carre. It is impossible to defend Kim Philby for his actions, but his story \u2013 both personal and as a spy \u2013 are certainly larger than life. If you have read anything by Ben Macintyre before, you will know that this is a not a dry and academic account, but reads almost like a spy novel. If you were not aware that it is factual, you would assume that this astonishing account was pure fiction \u2013 but it is certainly a riveting read and another well written and entertaining book from the talented Ben Macintyre. ...more How on earth did he get away with it for so long?! Ben Macintyre's latest book answers this question and more in an accessible, enjoyable and informative way. Philby's deceit of MI6 is well known, but the book details more the deceit of his friends and particularly his friend and colleague in SIS, Nicholas Elliot. I find the The Philby case and indeed the whole of the Cambridge 5 fascinating in that the \"old boy network\" of MI6 just couldn't comprehend that that one of their own (i.e of their clas How on earth did he get away with it for so long?! Ben Macintyre's latest book answers this question and more in an accessible, enjoyable and informative way. Philby's deceit of MI6 is well known, but the book details more the deceit of his friends and particularly his friend and colleague in SIS, Nicholas Elliot. I find the The Philby case and indeed the whole of the Cambridge 5 fascinating in that the \"old boy network\" of MI6 just couldn't comprehend that that one of their own (i.e of their class & upbringing) would spy for another country, which led to Philby being able to continue for so long. A fascinating read for anyone interested in espionage, the cold war and political motivation. ...more This book is hard to classify: it is a biography of perhaps the most famous traitor of the modern era, but is written as a series of anecdotes compiled by author Ben Macintyre. To a large extent, the book portrays Kim Philby as a suave, gregarious member of the Old Boy network, taking advantage of his closest friends, especially Nicholas Elliot and James Angleton. In my opinion, there were too many characters, perhaps a tool to deflect attention from the lack of verifiable facts and conversation This book is hard to classify: it is a biography of perhaps the most famous traitor of the modern era, but is written as a series of anecdotes compiled by author Ben Macintyre. To a large extent, the book portrays Kim Philby as a suave, gregarious member of the Old Boy network, taking advantage of his closest friends, especially Nicholas Elliot and James Angleton. In my opinion, there were too many characters, perhaps a tool to deflect attention from the lack of verifiable facts and conversations, such as Philby's admission of guilt to Elliot. There was precious little about Philby's family relationships, especially with wives and his children, and a very weird episode his devastation upon the death of his pet fox, when he seemed to care so little about people. Politics over friends and family. The most interesting analysis was whether or not Philby was encouraged to defect to avoid political embarrassment in the UK and US. Finally, I have never come across the word \"bibulous\" before, but it was used excessively, but probably aptly in describing the espionage community. ...more Just fascinating! I listened to the audiobook and was completely hooked from start to finish. How Kim Philby was able to fool all his friends, family, MI6, and the CIA is amazingly depicted in this nonfiction account. His betrayal for many years as a double agent for the KGB took everyone by shocking surprise. Wonderfully told was the intricately weaved story of the Cambridge 5. A spy ring of British upper class students graduating to MI6 and then turning to the KGB under the misunderstood ideali Just fascinating! I listened to the audiobook and was completely hooked from start to finish. How Kim Philby was able to fool all his friends, family, MI6, and the CIA is amazingly depicted in this nonfiction account. His betrayal for many years as a double agent for the KGB took everyone by shocking surprise. Wonderfully told was the intricately weaved story of the Cambridge 5. A spy ring of British upper class students graduating to MI6 and then turning to the KGB under the misunderstood idealism of communism. I couldn't get enough. This book left me wanting to know more about Philby and MI6. ...more This reads like a novel. Yes, there are some factual errors. Yes, some of the dialog must have been invented. But, it's stunningly good. Crossposted at Booklikes . Disclaimer: ARC read via Netgalley. Perhaps one of the most famous spy rings in history is the Cambridge Five. They have a nice little bit in the International Spy Museum in Washington D.C., and there are countless books and films either about the members or inspired by the members. So why read this one? Because it is a different perspective on the whole Kim Philby story. It\u2019s the story that everyone in the public wonders. How did he get away with it for so long? Macinty Crossposted at Booklikes . Disclaimer: ARC read via Netgalley. Perhaps one of the most famous spy rings in history is the Cambridge Five. They have a nice little bit in the International Spy Museum in Washington D.C., and there are countless books and films either about the members or inspired by the members. So why read this one? Because it is a different perspective on the whole Kim Philby story. It\u2019s the story that everyone in the public wonders. How did he get away with it for so long? Macintyre\u2019s thesis is that the success of Philby was due to the Old Boy Network, and he illustrates =not only with Philby\u2019s career but with the career of his friend Nicholas Elliott. Elliott who saw Philby as a close friend \u2013in the British way. It is too Macintyre\u2019s credit that he is able to convey, to a degree, the attraction that Philby had for those around him while at the same time detailing as much as he can Philby\u2019s double cross and less than stellar behavior, in particular in regards to women. It also goes some way to explain the slew of quasi defenders/hero worshippers that still exist in regards to the Cambridge Five. It was thought the Old Boy Network that both men got their jobs in the Service, and Macintyre contends it was the same network that enabled Philby not only to keep his job but to cover up his dealing for so long. The study not only looks at the spy services in terms of the Second World War and Cold War, but also in terms of class. The rivalry between MI6 and MI5 is described by Macintyre almost as a class segregation/war by Macintyre. This comparison does quite a bit more in explaining the rivalry between the two services far better than anyone has explained the rivalry between the CIA and FBI here in the states. In many ways, the most interesting part of the book is the women that circle around the Old Boy Network, either as wives, mistresses, secretaries, friends, or, more rarely, co-workers. While Philby\u2019s second wife had issues, Macintyre does not sugarcoat what her own mental issues were, but neither does he give Philby a pass. Macintyre's showing how even wives and mistresses who were liked by the men were still always in a way on the outside is subtly and empathically done. It is hardly surprising that some of the comments about accusations about Philby as a spy not only come from a woman but she is then mentioned by those around Philby in a disparaging way. This is even more interesting if you read Emma Garman\u2019s essay about female spies when Skyfall came out. (I think she and Macintyre should write a book together). Macintyre\u2019s writing is gripping, and he more steers the reader to conclusions instead of beating the reader with a crowbar. It is not necessary to have anything more than a basic knowledge of the Cold War to understand the book. My knowledge of the Cambridge Five is basic, and the book filled in quite a few blanks. The weakest part of the book is, almost strangely, the afterword by John le Carre. Le Carre talks about his interviewing of Elliott, and it\u2019s amusing to read the quotes. And that is what the afterword feels like \u2013a quote list. Still worth a read. ...more I received an uncorrected proof from Crown Publishers as part of a Goodreads Giveaway. Available in the USA in July 2014. Ben Macintyre's A Spy Among Friends is exactly what you'd expect if you've ever read any of his other books. It's a meticulously researched and skillfully written account of Kim Philby, the ultimate deceiver who spied for the Soviet Union during World War II and the Cold War. Philby was a master actor who managed to hide his true motives, and Macintyre does a great job of show I received an uncorrected proof from Crown Publishers as part of a Goodreads Giveaway. Available in the USA in July 2014. Ben Macintyre's A Spy Among Friends is exactly what you'd expect if you've ever read any of his other books. It's a meticulously researched and skillfully written account of Kim Philby, the ultimate deceiver who spied for the Soviet Union during World War II and the Cold War. Philby was a master actor who managed to hide his true motives, and Macintyre does a great job of showing the duality of his personality and his life. Philby was quintessentially English, complete with a love of cricket and Worcestershire sauce, dressed in tweed and smoking a pipe. He was a husband and father, and a charming and charismatic man who surrounded himself with friends and trusted colleagues. At the very same time, he was a devoted communist, and was betraying his country and everyone close to him. Macintyre describes a number of the big events in Philby's story: his recruitment into MI6 by Nick Elliott, his relationship with James Angleton, notable missions where his counterintelligence led to unsuccessful (and sometimes deadly) outcomes, and a few close calls that could have exposed him as a double agent. There are also some great descriptions of Philby\u2019s colorful associates. Even though Philby\u2019s story is already well-documented, Ben Macintyre has been given access to previously unavailable materials and he writes nonfiction in a style that\u2019s informative, accessible, and entertaining. Ultimately, the story is about Kim Philby and his friendship with Nick Elliott, who becomes his ultimate victim. Elliott stood by Philby\u2019s side and defended him from suspicion and accusation, and helped his former friend when he was living in poverty and struggling with alcoholism. Eventually, Elliott was the one who confronted Philby face-to-face. Macintyre\u2019s telling is the culmination of Philby\u2019s struggle with his double life, where he is finally forced to make a choice. I was one of the lucky ones to get an advance copy of the book for review, and I would certainly recommend picking this up in July when it\u2019s released in the US. If you\u2019re in the mood for double agent stories, I\u2019s also recommend grabbing a copy of Macintyre\u2019s Double Cross The True Story of the D-Day Spies , and while you\u2019re at it get Operation Mincemeat as well. ...more Beware the old boy network, not just the spies and crooks who connive themselves into top positions, but their unwitting enablers who accept them for merely being, on the exterior \u201clike\u201d them. Author Ben MacIntyre shows how this network\u2019s values of trust and loyalty made it incapable of policing itself. Kim Philby may be the most successful counter-agent ever. He fooled the top spies in Britain and the US. He believed in communism as a youth and through Stalin's purges (inclusive of his handlers) Beware the old boy network, not just the spies and crooks who connive themselves into top positions, but their unwitting enablers who accept them for merely being, on the exterior \u201clike\u201d them. Author Ben MacIntyre shows how this network\u2019s values of trust and loyalty made it incapable of policing itself. Kim Philby may be the most successful counter-agent ever. He fooled the top spies in Britain and the US. He believed in communism as a youth and through Stalin's purges (inclusive of his handlers) and the growing dysfunction in the Soviet Union he never wavered. He never discussed politics and no one thought that he wouldn't think as they did since he had the right family background, accent, education and manners. He was exceptionally charming and \u201cgood\u201d at parties. MacIntyre shows how Philby\u2019s instincts were spot on. He knew when to \u201chold them\u201d \u201cfold them\u201d \u201cwalk away\u201d and \u201crun\u201d. Nicholas Elliot of MI6 and James Angleton of the CIA and the others who enabled him paid no consequences for their bad judgment. Those who paid were patriots who died in the undercover operations he betrayed, the agents who informed the west whose names he sent to the Soviets and the many living under the Stalinist rulers he strengthened. He shattered the life of his second wife and the consequences for their 5 children and his third wife are unknown. The impact his treachery had on Angleton did further damage to the CIA. As a further note on the theme of the old boy network, Nicholas Elliot may be the consummate example. When another spy operation (done against the Prime Minister\u2019s directive) goes sour Elliot says the only problem with it was the way PM Anthony Eden handled it. There is no post mortem, no consideration that Philby, guilty or not, who was by this time circumstantially linked to a mountain of disasters, could have been at fault. The \u201cAfterword\u201d is an interview of Elliot by John LeClarre which reeks of the attitude that enabled Philby. This is an incredible story. There is a lot on the lifestyle of the British intelligence service of this era and the internal politics. There are photos of just about everyone you want to see. The few times I used the index it worked. While I cheated and went to Wikipedia to know the end of the story, as a testament to the author\u2019s skill, I still stayed up last night to finish it. ...more I was thoroughly engrossed in this book, beginning to end. It provided insight into the behind-the- scenes working of those we entrust with our most important political and military secrets. Harold \u201cKim\u201d Philby (1912-1988) during the 1940\u2019s and 50\u2019s was an officer in the U.K. secret intelligence service (MI6). All the time he was spying for the Soviet Union remitting many damaging Anglo-American secrets to Moscow. Hundreds died because of his treachery. Ben Macintyre tells the story of Kim Philby I was thoroughly engrossed in this book, beginning to end. It provided insight into the behind-the- scenes working of those we entrust with our most important political and military secrets. Harold \u201cKim\u201d Philby (1912-1988) during the 1940\u2019s and 50\u2019s was an officer in the U.K. secret intelligence service (MI6). All the time he was spying for the Soviet Union remitting many damaging Anglo-American secrets to Moscow. Hundreds died because of his treachery. Ben Macintyre tells the story of Kim Philby a member of the British upper class. His father was linguist who became an advisor of King Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia. Philby became a Communist while at Cambridge University. He married Litzi Friedman a Communist of Hungarian Jewish descent. It is claimed she was the one to recruit him as a Soviet spy. Macintyre suggest that although Philby was a sincere Communist, the impelling motive for his treachery was conceit. Cheating people made him feel clever. He betrayed anti-Soviet insurgents in Albania, Georgia, Lithuania, Estonia, Armenia and Ukraine, causing many deaths. The KGB defector Anatoly Golitsyn provided information against Philby in 1962. He made a confession and then escaped to Russia in 1963. Ben Macintyre was a journalist with the Times of London. He conducted an enormous amount of research and found new sources of information in the office diaries of MI5\u2019s deputy Chief Guy Liddell which became available in 2012. The book ends with an afterword by John le Carrie who worked in MI6 during the same time as Philby. The book reads like a spy novel but it is a solidly researched true story. I read this as an audio book downloaded from Audible. John Lee does an excellent job narrating the book. ...more It was an interesting book, but as the author pointed out some of the official files are still undisclosed, so we can't get full picture of the events. \u274b [...] a Latvian named Ozolin-Haskins[...] There is such surname as Ozoli\u0146\u0161 not Ozolin. Haskins is not Latvian name/surname. [...]Latvian seaman called Villi Maris[...] Villi- is not a Latvian name (but there is Vilis) however there is no such surname as Maris. M\u0101ris is a given name not a surname. \u274b I didn't count how often Guy Burgess was mentioned It was an interesting book, but as the author pointed out some of the official files are still undisclosed, so we can't get full picture of the events. \u274b [...] a Latvian named Ozolin-Haskins[...] There is such surname as Ozoli\u0146\u0161 not Ozolin. Haskins is not Latvian name/surname. [...]Latvian seaman called Villi Maris[...] Villi- is not a Latvian name (but there is Vilis) however there is no such surname as Maris. M\u0101ris is a given name not a surname. \u274b I didn't count how often Guy Burgess was mentioned but every time he was (except in two (?)instances. again, didn't count) it was reminded that he was homosexual. Repetitive and a bit strange. ...more Kim Philby is infamously known as the greatest spy in history. He had a long career as a double agent working for MI6 while secretly passing information to the Soviets. MacIntyre does a superb job of making Philby's suspensful and seemingly almost unbelievable story come alive. If you are interested in Cold War history, I highly recommend this one. <+++>A Spy Among Friends: Kim Philby and the Great Betrayal</+++> by Ben Macintyre tells the story of the famous double agent Kim Philby who for more than 30 years was a lead in the British spy force, all the while actually functioning as a Soviet mole. I may have my spy language mixed up-I'm not a great reader of spy fiction-but the story is gripping and particularly so for the prism through which Macintyre chose to view it: the betrayal on not only the grand scale but the intimate. Nicholas Elliott and Ki A Spy Among Friends: Kim Philby and the Great Betrayal by Ben Macintyre tells the story of the famous double agent Kim Philby who for more than 30 years was a lead in the British spy force, all the while actually functioning as a Soviet mole. I may have my spy language mixed up-I'm not a great reader of spy fiction-but the story is gripping and particularly so for the prism through which Macintyre chose to view it: the betrayal on not only the grand scale but the intimate. Nicholas Elliott and Kim Philby are both children of the British empire. Born to the upper class, born to parents active in ruling over colonies, products of the brutal but elite public school system, both men even had similar problematic relationships with their fathers. When they met in their early 20s, with fascism on the rise, theirs was an immediate bond. They quickly became close friends and remained that way for the next three decades. Or so Elliott thought: the question he was ultimately left to ponder was, how a friendship that close, with so many hours and confidences shared could have left him unaware that his \"friend\" was, in fact, a Soviet spy, who was continuously betraying Elliott, their country, and countless others, sending many even to their death. It was this mystery of betrayal, not as a single act but as almost a state of being that attracted me to this book and it continued to fascinate me throughout the story and after. I found myself enraged at the complacency of Philby who seemed never to doubt the rightness of his course no matter what the cost. At the same time, I was baffled by how someone could maintain this double life at all levels for so long. Philby could never be \"himself\" or, at least, be one whole person with anyone. Not his wives or his children or his many friends. Not even his closest friend, Nicholas Elliott. The story begins with the end: the final meeting between these two men, in many ways so much alike but simultaneously, profoundly different. It's a question that remains alive even now that I've finished the book, bringing along other questions about loyalty, politics, duty, morality. The world they moved in was one of power and intrigue, although Philby took it to a whole other level. I found the book as engrossing as a novel, emotional and intellectually engaging.It is a terrific if somewhat troubling read. I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in issues of friendship, loyalty, and betrayal. It's also a terrific spy story. I may even try some fictional ones ( John le Carr\u00e9 wrote the afterwards, also of great interest). Anyway, I'm glad to have read this book. I'm going to be looking for other readers with whom to discuss some of these issues! Any takers? ...more Philby is probably one of the best known and notorious spies in history. For decade he kept his ideological master in Moscow fed with top secret intelligence, from his reporting in the Spanish Civil war and form the moment that he gained access to the most exclusive club in England, MI6. Philby was a charmer. He made friends easily, was well connected and had what seemed to be almost limitless confidence. His entry into MI6 was effortless, the vetting process comprising of the deputy head of MI6 Philby is probably one of the best known and notorious spies in history. For decade he kept his ideological master in Moscow fed with top secret intelligence, from his reporting in the Spanish Civil war and form the moment that he gained access to the most exclusive club in England, MI6. Philby was a charmer. He made friends easily, was well connected and had what seemed to be almost limitless confidence. His entry into MI6 was effortless, the vetting process comprising of the deputy head of MI6 saying that he knew his people. And he was in. Philby and Nick Elliot, another rising star in the service, became close friends. They worked well together and spent long evenings in gentlemen's club strengthening their relationship. Philpy also formed a friendship with Angleton, who was to become chief of counter intelligent of the CIA. They shared every secret because of that trust. And Philby told Moscow everything. He was posted to Washington after the war and cultivated the people of the American network there. But things were starting to move against hime. He was one of a number of spies who had been requited in Cambridge in the 1930's and after some defections the net was closing in on Maclean. Philby tipped him off that they were after hime, and he defected with Burgess over a weekend as the MI5 watchers didn't work at weekends! The Americans were also starting to have their doubts about him after a series of Albanion operations were rounded up almost immediately. He returned to London with question marks over his loyalty, but with his charm on full managed to deflect suspicion following interrogation. He was accused in Parliament, and did a famous press conference, still used today for MI6 training purposes, where almost everything he said was a lie. He was asked to leave the service and ended up doing some little bits of journalism, but he was running out of cash. The Russians stepped into help, but in the background Nick Elliot was looking to return him to the service. And after short period he managed it. Philby would be based in Beruit, supposedly working for the Observer but finding intelligence for MI6 and of course the Soviets. But the net was closing in once again and this time the evidence was damming. In 1963 Elliot confronts him in an apartment in Beruit and extracts a form of confession from Philby, but no apology. Short after this meeting he defects to Moscow. Macintyre has concentrated on the personal side in this book. He writes in detail about the way that Philby was able to move with in the intelligence services, cultivating friendships in MI6 & MI5 and in the CIA too. He describes how the American started to have their suspicions and were more shocked by the UK response that he could never do that as he was a member of the establishment. It was quite scary that when MI5 were investigating him that MI6 closed ranks to protect a colleague. A very well written book about the most treacherous spy in history. ...more Review of A Spy Among Friends \u2013 Philby and the Great Betrayal Again, truth proves to be stranger than fiction: a mole in the top levels of British Intelligence for 3 decades? Macintyre tells the fascinating story of Kim Philby, English Gentleman, Russian ideologist and universal prevaricator. It's clear from the start that Macintyre has done his homework on this many-layered cat-and-mouse game and that he understands the inner workings of the intelligence community's bureaucracy as well as the me Review of A Spy Among Friends \u2013 Philby and the Great Betrayal Again, truth proves to be stranger than fiction: a mole in the top levels of British Intelligence for 3 decades? Macintyre tells the fascinating story of Kim Philby, English Gentleman, Russian ideologist and universal prevaricator. It's clear from the start that Macintyre has done his homework on this many-layered cat-and-mouse game and that he understands the inner workings of the intelligence community's bureaucracy as well as the mechanics of tradecraft by the foot soldiers. What's especially engrossing about this book is the way coworkers mingle in clubs and bars, easily milking intell on covert ops from each other over brandy and cigars. What one would think might cliche \u2013 the refined Britishers in tweeds, Hamburgs and umbrellas gathered at clubs for drinks, turns out to be exactly the way it was during WWII and into the cold war. Macintyre fleshes out the main players in this espionage quandary well. We're allowed inside the heads of the players and are privy to the scheming that lead to their audacious actions... \u201cPhilby characterized CIA operatives as upper-class wine-drinkers, while the FBI were earthier beer-drinking types; Philby was happy to drink quantities of both, with either, while trying to 'please one party without offending the other.' Philby's office was in the British embassy, but he was often to be found at the CIA or FBI headquarters, or the Pentagon, where a room was set aside for meetings on the Albanian operation. Few subjects were out of bounds: 'The sky was the limit...he would have known as much as he wanted to find out.' Keeping track of who's who in the avalanche of names is a bit daunting in A Spy Among Friends, but the important people pop up with enough frequency to have one's memory refreshed as to who they are. Ironically, instead of a period of relief after Philby was caught, a witch hunt was launched in both England and the United States to ferret out other possible moles that might be burrowing into the foundations of democratic society. Innocent lives have been ruined, punishments unjustly given out. How sad it would be if the true Philby blow to the West has been to leave behind a plethora of paranoia and mistrust that further alienates the people from their governments. Best book I've read in quite some time. ...more What is it about Kim Philby that so fascinates? There is no end to the books about his life as a double agent working for MI6 and the KGB during World War II and the early days of the Cold War, yet I just keep reading (and loving) them. Ben Macintyre's book focuses on Philby's relationship with his closest friend and colleague Nick Elliott, who believed in him until the very end and arguably gave him the means and opportunity to escape to Moscow when his role as a spy was compromised. Philby's d What is it about Kim Philby that so fascinates? There is no end to the books about his life as a double agent working for MI6 and the KGB during World War II and the early days of the Cold War, yet I just keep reading (and loving) them. Ben Macintyre's book focuses on Philby's relationship with his closest friend and colleague Nick Elliott, who believed in him until the very end and arguably gave him the means and opportunity to escape to Moscow when his role as a spy was compromised. Philby's duplicity extended to his four wives with whom he shared nothing of his second life and who had to endure his alcoholism, infidelities and frequent unexplained disappearances. Why did Philby betray the England that he clearly loved? Macintyre provides us with a number of possible answers. Perhaps he was duplicitous by nature and found some satisfaction in his double life. He used his prodigious charm to gain the love and loyalty of his friends and colleagues. Clearly he had convinced himself during his Cambridge University days that the communist way would lead more surely to peace and prosperity. Yet surely he knew of the miseries attendant to Stalin's regime, especially since he witnessed the brutal deaths of so many Soviet agents and counterspies. One of Macintyre's major questions is how Philby managed to elude detection and survive investigations over a long period of years. MI6 during the period functioned as a kind of gentleman's club comprised of members who had graduated from the most elite of Britain's public schools. Their shared code of loyalty to friends and country did not allow for the possibility of treachery within the group. Philby was the unthinkable traitor. One of my favorite parts of the book is toward the end when Elliott, John LeCarre and others who served in the Secret Service with Philby talk about their views of the man. This is a fascinating book and deserves a place on the bookshelves of those interested in spy craft and spies. ...more This is a fascinating story and the most amazing aspect is that it is true. It has all the ingredients of the most intriguing spy fiction, and clearly offered much of the context of classics such as John le Carre's 'Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy' which features the intrepid quest behind the scenes to uncover the mole working at the heart of the British intelligence community. Everyone now knows the name of Kim Philby, perhaps the most infamous of traitors, but it was only from reading this book that This is a fascinating story and the most amazing aspect is that it is true. It has all the ingredients of the most intriguing spy fiction, and clearly offered much of the context of classics such as John le Carre's 'Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy' which features the intrepid quest behind the scenes to uncover the mole working at the heart of the British intelligence community. Everyone now knows the name of Kim Philby, perhaps the most infamous of traitors, but it was only from reading this book that I appreciated the extent of his deception and, indeed, the crushing reluctance of many of those counter-espionage officers investigating him to believe that he might actually be guilty. Of course, knowing that Philby fled from Beirut to Moscow in January 1963, it is easy with the benefit of hindsight to add additional weight to the circumstantial evidence against counting against Philby. Yet viewed at any time that circumstantial evidence should have been sufficient to secure his isolation from anyone in the espionage community, even if it was deemed insufficient to warrant public prosecution. Philby was suspected, and questioned intensely, following the sudden departure of his former associates Donald MacLean and Guy Burgess in 1951, but he kept his nerve and retained his freedom. Macintyre's approach is an unusual one, emphasising Philby's thirty year friendship with fellow MI6 officer Nicholas Elliott. Throughout the period in which Philby was being most ferociously castigated Elliott remained loyal, adamantly defending his friend's patriotism and loyalty. My one cavil about the book was Macintyre's writing style which slumped below prosaic to the point of mundanity. Written by anyone with a feel for words this would have been a rattling good read. As it was, the subject matter, and Macintyre's detailed research still give us a very gripping book. ...more \"Never judge a man by his umbrella.\" *lol* BBC BOW (view spoiler) [ With access to newly released MI5 files and previously unseen family papers, and with the cooperation of former officers of MI6 and the CIA, author Ben Macintyre unlocks the last great secret of the Cold War. Kim Philby was the most notorious British defector and Soviet mole in history. Agent, double agent, traitor and enigma, he betrayed every secret of Allied operations to the Russians in the early years of the Cold War. Philby's t \"Never judge a man by his umbrella.\" *lol* BBC BOW (view spoiler) [ With access to newly released MI5 files and previously unseen family papers, and with the cooperation of former officers of MI6 and the CIA, author Ben Macintyre unlocks the last great secret of the Cold War. Kim Philby was the most notorious British defector and Soviet mole in history. Agent, double agent, traitor and enigma, he betrayed every secret of Allied operations to the Russians in the early years of the Cold War. Philby's two closest friends in the intelligence world, Nicholas Elliott of MI6 and James Jesus Angleton the CIA intelligence chief, thought they knew Philby better than anyone - only to discover they had not known him at all. This is a story of intimate duplicity; of loyalty, trust and treachery, class and conscience; of an ideological battle waged by men with cut-glass accents and well-made suits in the comfortable clubs and restaurants of London and Washington; of male friendships forged, and then systematically betrayed. The story begins in Beirut 1963, a bugged room. Two men who've known each other for thirty years face one another. Both are spies, but one is a traitor. The first episode of A Spy Among Friends starts with Kim Philby's confession to his best friend. (hide spoiler) ] ...more The Cambridge Spy Ring. Most people have heard of this notorious group of five, upper-crust British double-agents who, throughout WWII and the years that followed as the Cold War began and escalated, passed so many secrets on to the KGB. The most notorious of these spies, of course, was Kim Philby and much has been written about this enigmatic man. But now it's Ben Macintyre's turn and few writers can pen a narrative like Macintyre. He doesn't disappoint. Reading like fiction, Macintyre chooses t The Cambridge Spy Ring. Most people have heard of this notorious group of five, upper-crust British double-agents who, throughout WWII and the years that followed as the Cold War began and escalated, passed so many secrets on to the KGB. The most notorious of these spies, of course, was Kim Philby and much has been written about this enigmatic man. But now it's Ben Macintyre's turn and few writers can pen a narrative like Macintyre. He doesn't disappoint. Reading like fiction, Macintyre chooses to tell this narrative through the lens of the close friendship between Philby and fellow MI-6 spy/British upperclassman Nicholas Elliott. The two men came up together in MI-6 from the 1930s, met in 1940, and solidified as close of a friendship as ever their was. Their only difference (unknown to Elliott) was one of political ideology. Philby was dedicated to the Communist cause - despite never having lived a day under Stalin or any subsequent Soviet leader a day in his privileged life - while Elliott's loyalty to Britain came as a matter of course; less ideological than a natural course of events given his privileged upbringing and membership in Britain's \"good old boy's club.\" But ideological principles aren't at the heart of Mcintyre's book: friendship is. And how well we can ever truly know another human being. Philby, of course, continued his work as a double agent for decades before discovery. Even after initial suspicion, powerful friends within MI-6 and even the CIA (like Elliott) simply could not conceive that someone like Philby that came from \"British establishment\" could be capable of such a thing and would go on shielding him for many more years before matters would ever come to a head. Macintyre does a remarkable job cutting through the smoke and mirrors that espionage folks tend to leave in their wake. He does so by tirelessly examining all sources and then finding the most simple, obvious explanation. No conspiracy theories, no ridiculous nonsense. Just the obvious. Because the truth is often the most simple explanation. There is not one part of this book that bogs down in trivial, boring details. Quite the opposite, in fact. I was riveted and plowed through this faster than many fiction books I've read recently. By far, this is the best non-fiction I've read in 2014 and I highly recommend it. Even if you're not all that familiar with this part of history, you won't be lost, Macintyre makes it easy to follow all the people and all the events. It's an amazing story and you'll walk away just shaking your head wondering *how* this could possibly have happened. And then you'll wonder how well you really know the people in your life. ...more", "Title": "A Spy Among Friends: Kim Philby and the Great Betrayal"},
