{"Comments": "I was inspired to pick up <+++>Wishful Drinking</+++> , after seeing that a couple of my GR friends had recently read this. I found <---A>Carrie Fisher</---A> to be honest, funny, and interesting in this memoir. Carrie's childhood,<---M> celebrity parents</---M>, struggles with addiction, reminiscences from Star Wars, and battle with bipolar disorder are topics addressed. I didn't realize that the memoir was made into an HBO production in 2010 and will look to watch in the future. Below is a link to a few clips.<---F> http://www</---F>.hbo.co I was inspired to pick up <+++>Wishful Drinking</+++> , after seeing that a couple of my GR friends had recently read this. I found Carrie Fisher to be honest, funny, and interesting in this memoir. Carrie's childhood, celebrity parents, struggles with addiction, reminiscences from Star Wars, and battle with bipolar disorder are topics addressed. I didn't realize that the memoir was made into an HBO production in 2010 and will look to watch in the future. Below is a link to a few clips. http://www.hbo.com/documentaries/wish... A Few Favorite Quotes: \u201cAnd when you're young you want to fit in. Hell, I still want to fit in with certain humans, but as you get older you get a little more discriminating.\u201d \u201cResentment is like drinking a poison and waiting for the other person to die.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s important to be able to distinguish the difference between a problem and an inconvenience. In my opinion, a problem derails your life and an inconvenience is not being able to get a nice seat on the un-derailed train.\u201d Following is a link to a Vanity Fair article that highlights some of the points that Fisher makes in this book and also celebrates her life in photographs. http://www.vanityfair.com/style/2016/... I enjoyed reading this book and recommend it to her fans. RIP Carrie Fisher. \u260a Audiobook - Well-narrated by Carrie Fisher. Listening time about 3 hours. Available on Hoopla. ...more When the original Star Wars trilogy came out, I was too young to have nurtured any grotty, pubescent fantasies about Princess Leia (though I guess by the time of Return of the Jedi , I was old enough to be confusedly excited by those harem scenes with Jabba the Hutt). But now that I\u2019ve read Wishful Drinking , I kind of want Carrie Fisher for my girlfriend. Except that she\u2019s my mother\u2019s age. And she\u2019s a recovering alcoholic/drug addict with bipolar disorder and a lavishly messed-up family. Other th When the original Star Wars trilogy came out, I was too young to have nurtured any grotty, pubescent fantasies about Princess Leia (though I guess by the time of Return of the Jedi , I was old enough to be confusedly excited by those harem scenes with Jabba the Hutt). But now that I\u2019ve read Wishful Drinking , I kind of want Carrie Fisher for my girlfriend. Except that she\u2019s my mother\u2019s age. And she\u2019s a recovering alcoholic/drug addict with bipolar disorder and a lavishly messed-up family. Other than that, though, she\u2019s really great: she\u2019s smart as a whip, wickedly funny and she swears like a teamster, whatever that is. All the same, I definitely wouldn\u2019t want her for a daughter, or even a distant cousin. When it comes to her family\u2019s dirty laundry\u2014of which there are piles and piles lying around, hopelessly soiled\u2014she\u2019s not what you\u2019d call the soul of discretion: My father is beyond likeable. I mean you would just love him. My father also smokes four joints a day. Not for medical reasons. So I call him Puff Daddy. But he is just adorable. There\u2019s a reason he got all that high-quality pussy\u2014except for the Miss Louisiana thing, and anyone can make one mistake. How often do you find the word \u2018father\u2019 and the phrase \u2018high-quality pussy\u2019 in the same paragraph? Right, not very. And it takes a special kind of daughter to describe her mother\u2019s sexual orientation in the following terms: \u2018Not that it matters, but my mother is not a lesbian . She\u2019s just a really, really bad heterosexual.\u2019 I\u2019m not exactly up on Hollywood tell-alls, so maybe I\u2019m overlooking some classics of the genre, but I don\u2019t imagine there\u2019d be that many celebrities out there who are blessed with either Fisher\u2019s command of the American vernacular or her healthy perspective on her own fame: Speaking of graves, I tell my younger friends that one day they\u2019ll be at a bar playing pool and they\u2019ll look up at the television set and there will be a picture of Princess Leia with two dates underneath, and they\u2019ll say \u201cawww\u2014she said that would happen.\u201d And they\u2019ll go back to playing pool. Or there's this: You know what\u2019s funny about death? I mean other than absolutely nothing at all? You\u2019d think we could remember finding out we weren\u2019t immortal. Sometimes I see children sobbing in airports and I think, \u201cAww. They\u2019ve just been told.\u201d See, that\u2019s clever, but isn't it also just the teensiest bit profound? Okay, not Schopenhauer profound, but still. Wishful Drinking is fluff, I guess, in the sense that it won\u2019t change your life or even your lunch break. But it\u2019s good, witty fluff. True, Fisher\u2019s relentless wisecracking starts to sound needy and defensive after a while\u2014he said, casually lobbing a rock from his glass house\u2014but I think it\u2019s to her credit that, despite her freakish Hollywood existence, she\u2019s still human enough to laugh at herself. Come to think of it, what could be more freakish than that: a human being in Hollywood? It must get awfully lonely for her. ...more I hate to be one of those people who rush to read a book written by a celebrity who has just decided to throw their spoon in the corner, and move onto the next level, out of this world. I have always found it to be a case of appreciating someone after they are gone rather than appreciating them when they are still with us. And here I am, doing exactly that. To my defense, I have had Fisher's books on me for a very long time, but never got to them for reasons of many. My intrigue sparked after her I hate to be one of those people who rush to read a book written by a celebrity who has just decided to throw their spoon in the corner, and move onto the next level, out of this world. I have always found it to be a case of appreciating someone after they are gone rather than appreciating them when they are still with us. And here I am, doing exactly that. To my defense, I have had Fisher's books on me for a very long time, but never got to them for reasons of many. My intrigue sparked after her new book release, The Princess Diarist , but I still continued to push her other books on the side. First of the reasons to put me off was the very low rating of Wishful Drinking . It told me something is up with, because celebrity books are often rated high just due to them being written by a iconic personality, which Carrie Fisher no doubt was, and my second and more justified reason was that I had no particular relationship with Fisher and her cinematic work. As I said, Carrie Fisher as Princess Leia is iconic, part of the movie history. She was the wet dream of boys and men all over the world, she was a brand, young girls (and older women) adored her, looked up to her, idolized her, and all that for a good reason. She appeared to be a strong, beautiful, witty and a good female role model. I, however, never had that kind of approach to her. I appreciated her cinematic work, but never had a deeper interest or awe towards her. This is mainly due to the fact that before I saw any Star Wars movies, my child's eyes had already seen Basic Instinct, and my child's brain had already decided that Sharon Stone as Catherine Tramell was a perfect role model for a young girl like me (she still is, btw). What can I say, I went wrong at a very young age, but I am sure that if I would have seen Star Wars first, I would have picked Carrie Fisher as Princess Leia to be my dream woman and a celebrity role model, but that just was not in the cards I was dealt with. After finishing Wishful Drinking , I am very disappointed by the fact that I have been avoiding to read it, and also that I had not paid any attention to Carrie Fisher before her death. She was pretty awesome lady. She was witty, loud, outspoken, true, sarcastic, self-ironic, someone you would have enjoyed to spend some time with despite of their addictions, despite of their bipolar disorder, but more so due to the family dynamic and their way of dealing with life. I understand the low rating. This would not satisfy the need of a person who would wish to know more about Carrie Fisher, who would want to read her chronicled life story, who would want to dwell inside her history, inside her great stories and experiences. In many ways, what Wishful Drinking is, is a rambling stream of consciousness, unedited word flow that comes straight through the mind of that specific moment. It feels more like listening to a friend who wants to spend the evening talking serious and funny than it feels like reading a celebrity that wants to share their career and life. You learn great deal of what and who Carrie Fisher was, but at the same time, you don't really learn to know her at all. That is an interesting outcome, but what she accomplished great, was to show how a bipolar mind, in its manic stage, reads. It pretty much reads like Wishful Drinking does. And that is all kinds of cools. I will return to Carrie Fisher's other books soon enough, and I kind of hate to write this mushy, awing review, but I was kind of grabbed by the feels, so I have this feeling of entitlement, which makes me wanna write really nice words. Super nice. SuperSuper nice. ...more Like most boys popping wood for the first time in the late '70s and early '80s, I had a \"healthy\" interest in Princess Leia Carrie Fisher. Later in life, whenever I've seen one of her books on the shelves, I'd think about possibly reading it, out of interest for what she might have to say regarding those iconic Star Wars movies. I even gave a little shit about what she's been up to since then. Call it a passing fancy, one that I've passed up time and again for year upon year, right up until rece Like most boys popping wood for the first time in the late '70s and early '80s, I had a \"healthy\" interest in Princess Leia Carrie Fisher. Later in life, whenever I've seen one of her books on the shelves, I'd think about possibly reading it, out of interest for what she might have to say regarding those iconic Star Wars movies. I even gave a little shit about what she's been up to since then. Call it a passing fancy, one that I've passed up time and again for year upon year, right up until recently when I found the audiobook version of Wishful Drinking at the library. It was free, I had it in hand and yet still I hesitated and would not have bothered with it except that it is quite short. I wish I'd put it back on the shelf. Three hours of listening to anyone famous and privileged talking about their problems is three hours too long. Add to that Fisher's tendency to shout, as if saying it louder makes it funnier. I blame \"Laugh In\"-era Goldie Hawn for this. Negatives aside, Fisher's humor is one of the book's saving graces. She's gone beyond the \"woe is me\" stage, attained the \"let's get our skeletons out of the closet\" stage, and she handles it with laughter. However, it's a sense of humor that is as dark as the undertones and somewhat depressing subject matter of the entire book. From start to finish, nearly everything within Wishful Drinking is about her struggles with depression, mental illness and substance abuse. It's a hard-knock life. Fisher's taken her knocks and here they are all laid out for you to read. I'm not sure I would recommend it. Rating : 2.5 ...more WISHFUL DRINKING is a short, but interesting memoir surrounding Carrie Fisher's life growing up in a celebrity household, (parents Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher) her addictions, electroshock therapy, bipolar disorder and after effects of playing Princess Leia in the epic STAR WARS saga. Written with sarcastic humor and wit, gotta give her credit for laying it all out there, and persevering to overcome her demons. Just ok for me. Turning to the first of her short memoirs, I was faced with some of Carrie Fisher's most interesting sentiments and humorous anecdotes detailing a life about which I knew very little. Fisher adds as an opening disclaimer that she underwent electro-convulsive therapy (ECT), which erased some of her past memories, so things within these pages might not be as clear or succinct as their actual occurrences. Born in the worst possible situation, the offspring of two Hollywood stars, Carrie Fisher foun Turning to the first of her short memoirs, I was faced with some of Carrie Fisher's most interesting sentiments and humorous anecdotes detailing a life about which I knew very little. Fisher adds as an opening disclaimer that she underwent electro-convulsive therapy (ECT), which erased some of her past memories, so things within these pages might not be as clear or succinct as their actual occurrences. Born in the worst possible situation, the offspring of two Hollywood stars, Carrie Fisher found herself in the middle of the most complex family tree imaginable. With Eddie Fisher (an apparently famous crooner of the 1950s) and Debbie Reynolds (famous Hollywood starlet at a young age) as parents, Fisher was forced to live in their blinding glory and make a name for herself. However, as with many star-studded couples, her parents moved on to bigger and better things, leaving her as a child of divorce. Does she use this excuse to explain away her decision to turn to drugs and alcohol? Not at all, or at least no more than any other child. Fisher tells of a life both in Los Angeles and New York, following her mother along her successful but fading career before she ended up on the set of Star Wars at nineteen and carving out a name for herself. This single character (Princess Leia) has permeated Fisher's very being and she was forever unable to shake its presence. Pulling out some stories about her interactions with George Lucas to explain why wearing a bra on set would not make scientific sense, her brief marriage to Paul Simon, and eventually marrying a man who got her pregnant and eventually announced that he was gay, Fisher takes the reader through a whirlwind tour of some of her most memorable moments, all surrounding an ever-increasing dependence on pills, psychiatrists, and flashes of fame. An interesting smattering of thoughts and memories, instilled with enough humour to leave the reader feeling this is an extended comedy dialogue, Fisher presents something to tide the reader over between larger and more substantial reading assignments. Funny for what it is, but not a stellar piece for those seeking an in-depth exploration of Carrie Fisher's life. Some might wonder why I am reading Carrie Fisher after I panned her two novels so recently. I knew what I was getting into with this book and it delivered precisely what I expected. While I might have preferred something more linear, I found myself interested in all the adventures, follies, and downright stupidity that crossed Fisher's path. I knew her only as Princess Leia (though I was not one to plaster posters upon my wall) and so all of this proved both intriguing and even a little entertaining. Fisher does not try to gussy up her writing or her stories. They are precisely as she remembers them, though she does remind the reader of her ECT throughout the piece, which acts as a means to understand some of the more random commentaries found herein. Engaging and even a little provocative, Fisher serves her purpose by presenting this piece, the first in what became a series. We shall see what else comes to pass as the Force flows through me for the other two memoir-ish publications. Kudos, Madam Fisher for entertaining and intriguing me. A nice appetizer before I delve into a month of hard-going biographies Love/hate the review? An ever-growing collection of others appears at: http://pecheyponderings.wordpress.com/ ...more I loved Carrie Fisher; she was an icon of my youth. She was also smart, funny, and courageous. Her death saddened me so much. She should have had years ahead of her. She (and we) were deprived of her wit and intelligence. Her witness to surviving mental illness and addiction. I read this book in honor of her and to feel her presence again. The book is as funny, poignant, and funny as you would expect. It read like lightening and was over too soon. Just like Carrie Fisher's life. A memoir about drug abuse, sexual compulsion and manic depression shouldn't be this funny, but in Carrie Fisher's hands it's a laugh riot. Wishful Drinking ($21, Simon & Schuster) is slim, packed with photos and basically the script for her hit one-woman show of the same name. Fisher calls this book a \"a really, really detailed personals ad,\" and covers everything from the dead, gay Republican in her bed (which was tabloid fodder for weeks in 2005), her missing-in-action, over-the-top parent A memoir about drug abuse, sexual compulsion and manic depression shouldn't be this funny, but in Carrie Fisher's hands it's a laugh riot. Wishful Drinking ($21, Simon & Schuster) is slim, packed with photos and basically the script for her hit one-woman show of the same name. Fisher calls this book a \"a really, really detailed personals ad,\" and covers everything from the dead, gay Republican in her bed (which was tabloid fodder for weeks in 2005), her missing-in-action, over-the-top parents (Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher) and, of course, plenty of anecdotes about playing Princess Leia in the original Star Wars trilogy. I plowed through it in one evening, laughing out loud. Fisher has a knack for making the heartbreaking hilarious and there's probably more truth packed into these 176 pages than found in other \"memoirs\" twice this size (Jane Fonda's bloated tome comes to mind). She talks honestly about her marriage to Paul Simon, her second husband who left her for a man, her father's womanizing (most notoriously leaving Debbie Reynolds for Elizabeth Taylor after her third husband, Mike Todd, was killed in a plane crash), and her electroconvulsive therapy, which she says has done her more good than a dozen shrinks and their pills. Her recollections of Debbie are endearing and juicy, including her gift of a vibrator to 15-year-old Carrie and having Cary Grant call her daughter not once, but twice to talk about the dangers of dropping acid. Perhaps the most hilarious chapter in the book is Carrie's diagram of her whacked out family tree (complete with photos and linking arrows) as she tries to figure out if her teenage daughter is committing incest by dating Elizabeth Taylor's grandson. I actually wish I'd bought the audio book version, because hearing Carrie read this aloud must be a scream. ...more The sad thing about this book is that my favorite part was the cover. I mean, that's a brilliant cover! But overall? Not the book I was hoping for. Fisher seems to have mostly transcribed her one-woman show, and the problem is, what works for a performance doesn't hold up very well as a book. Everything's sort of glossed over with self-deprecating jokes, and there's not a real sense of narrative or much in the way of self-reflection. I didn't really want a celebrity tell-all, but I would really b The sad thing about this book is that my favorite part was the cover. I mean, that's a brilliant cover! But overall? Not the book I was hoping for. Fisher seems to have mostly transcribed her one-woman show, and the problem is, what works for a performance doesn't hold up very well as a book. Everything's sort of glossed over with self-deprecating jokes, and there's not a real sense of narrative or much in the way of self-reflection. I didn't really want a celebrity tell-all, but I would really be interested in what Fisher really thinks and feels about her struggles with addiction, mental illness, and the bizarreness of her fame. Instead, I mostly got a lot of jokes about how it's weird when guys talk about jacking off to Princess Leia. It seemed like whenever she got too close to something painful, it was danced around or told in such a way that felt like she was saying, \"Ok, told you about that, got it out of the way, so there.\" There is some genuinely interesting and affecting material here, but it's hard to find, which is really disappointing. ...more This rating is all about how damn funny this book is, and how sad I am that Carrie Fisher is no longer with us. (Also because I'm pleased that one of my favourite songs of all time - Paul Simon's Graceland - is revealed to be about her. (Which was probably no revelation at all to most fans.)) This is a short audiobook that my husband and I listened to in the course of one morning - it is basically a studio recording of a one-woman show that Carrie Fisher did for a while. It is about her life, looking back after electro-shock therapy had discarded some of her memories (terrifying to realize they are still using this treatment!!). She is so funny in how she talks about her father's dalliances and her mother's lifestyle. I do wish the audio engineer had her re-record a few of the parts This is a short audiobook that my husband and I listened to in the course of one morning - it is basically a studio recording of a one-woman show that Carrie Fisher did for a while. It is about her life, looking back after electro-shock therapy had discarded some of her memories (terrifying to realize they are still using this treatment!!). She is so funny in how she talks about her father's dalliances and her mother's lifestyle. I do wish the audio engineer had her re-record a few of the parts where she is shouting, but I get it, she has a loud voice. I didn't know all that much about Carrie Fisher but enjoyed this just the same, perhaps more with all the surprises I experienced in not knowing! (If you have Hoopla, it's available there.) ...more Do you have a friend, who no matter how much you like her, you have to acknowledge is a horrible story teller? She tells them with too much back story, and after every overlong vignette concludes she pauses expectantly waiting for you to crack up at just how hysterical it was that Sarah would say that to Jean in line at the supermarket . Well, now you can have that experience in book form, written by someone who isn't even your friend. Picked this up on a whim at the used bookstore. Glad I did it was a quick, highly entertaining read. It's based on the show Carrie Fisher was doing at the time and reads like that. It definitely seems a bit scattered at times but given the subject matter it's to be expected. I really enjoyed Carrie's perspective on addiction and mental illness. Plus, her perspective on celebrity was great. Check out this quote... \"Anyway, at a certain point in my early twenties, my mother started to become worrie Picked this up on a whim at the used bookstore. Glad I did it was a quick, highly entertaining read. It's based on the show Carrie Fisher was doing at the time and reads like that. It definitely seems a bit scattered at times but given the subject matter it's to be expected. I really enjoyed Carrie's perspective on addiction and mental illness. Plus, her perspective on celebrity was great. Check out this quote... \"Anyway, at a certain point in my early twenties, my mother started to become worried about my obviously ever-increasing drug ingestion. So she ended up doing what any concerned parent would do. She called Cary Grant.\" I'm a big fan of Carrie's writing and this is no exception. ...more This is a helluva good memoir! I finished it in one day. Longer review to come ASAP. Some more thoughts on Wishful Drinking. I've read several of Carrie Fisher's novels (I recommend Postcards from the Edge) but her memoir is much more fun. It's written in her droll, self-deprecating style and covers her life growing up the daughter of famous parents; the Princess Leia years; her marriages and finally being diagnosed with bipolar disorder. \"My diagnosis was manic depression. I think today they call This is a helluva good memoir! I finished it in one day. Longer review to come ASAP. Some more thoughts on Wishful Drinking. I've read several of Carrie Fisher's novels (I recommend Postcards from the Edge) but her memoir is much more fun. It's written in her droll, self-deprecating style and covers her life growing up the daughter of famous parents; the Princess Leia years; her marriages and finally being diagnosed with bipolar disorder. \"My diagnosis was manic depression. I think today they call it bipolar disorder - so you might say I swing both ways.\" At the end of the book, Carrie makes a plea for more tolerance regarding mental illness. She writes that she is baffled that there is still is so much stigma regarding mental illness. \"At times, being bipolar can be an all-consuming challenge, requiring a lot of stamina and even more courage, so if you're living with this illness and functioning at all, it's something to be proud of, not ashamed of.\" This is a quick read and I finished the book wishing I could be her friend. She is very funny. Well, as Carrie says, you get the gist of my drift! Now that Carrie has passed away, I'm glad once more that I read this book and encourage everyone to read it too. Very sad that she died so young (she was 60) and her mom, Debbie Reynolds, died of a broken heart a few days later. May they both Rest In Peace. ...more It is not often one gets the chance to read the memoirs of someone who has has the dubious distinction of having been made into a Pez dispenser. In Wishful Drinking, Star Wars icon Carrie Fisher has plenty of stories to tell about that and many other fascinating subjects including being raised by famous, scandal-plagued parents, her drug abuse and mental disorder, marriage to Paul Simon, her recent electroconvulsive therapy, and what it's like when a gay republican dies in your bed. Carrie Fisher It is not often one gets the chance to read the memoirs of someone who has has the dubious distinction of having been made into a Pez dispenser. In Wishful Drinking, Star Wars icon Carrie Fisher has plenty of stories to tell about that and many other fascinating subjects including being raised by famous, scandal-plagued parents, her drug abuse and mental disorder, marriage to Paul Simon, her recent electroconvulsive therapy, and what it's like when a gay republican dies in your bed. Carrie Fisher is a very, very funny person, and I frequently laughed out loud while reading this book. Her life is jam-packed with outrageous moments - who else can claim their mother called Cary Grant to counsel them about LSD? As with much good comedy, Fisher's is born of excruciating pain, in her case made all the more extreme by her bi-polar disorder. But she appears to have come out the other side of her illness and suffering, and we can safely enjoy her stories - and the genuine bits of wisdom within them - because of it. My primary complaint about this book is that it was too short. Because it is based on her one-woman show of the same title, it doesn't follow the general conventions of memoir, giving only quick treatment to most of the topics she discusses. You know she has a lot more material when being in rehab with Ozzy Osborne only merits half a line, and her Star Wars experiences could likely have filled a whole book instead of just a short chapter. Because it's also written with the rhythm of a performance, I suspect I might have preferred the audiobook on this one so that I could catch the full nuance of her skilled delivery. But if you've ever felt a burning desire to know why it's a bad idea to wear a bra in space, you'll definitely want to check this out. ...more This has to be one of the funniest biographies I've ever read. Fischer's frankness reminded me of Esther Williams' autobiography The Million Dollar Mermaid . And what she does tell is pretty cut and dry with no euphemisms (for example Fischer describes that when Elizabeth Taylor's husband died in a tragic accident, her father \"consoled her with his penis\"). It's a very short read and that might be my biggest complaint. \"You wouldn't believe what I'm NOT telling you,\" Fischer teases in her book. An This has to be one of the funniest biographies I've ever read. Fischer's frankness reminded me of Esther Williams' autobiography The Million Dollar Mermaid . And what she does tell is pretty cut and dry with no euphemisms (for example Fischer describes that when Elizabeth Taylor's husband died in a tragic accident, her father \"consoled her with his penis\"). It's a very short read and that might be my biggest complaint. \"You wouldn't believe what I'm NOT telling you,\" Fischer teases in her book. And I know that she's leaving out tons because whenever she's on a talk show promoting her book she always has something new to say. For instance, on the set of Star Wars , Mark Hamill was a huge fan of Alec Guinness. And eventually he got so annoyed with Mark Hamill asking him all these questions, Alec gave him 20 pounds to go away. Which Mark actually did...after Alec signed the 20 pounds. When on NPR's Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me! , Peter Sagal asked her when she was going to come out with the full uncut biography. She replied, \"When all the people those stories relate to are dead. Including ME!\" So I will be left to consider how big the uncut biography of Carrie Fischer is in comparison to Esther Williams' and (god forbid) Bill Clinton's biographies. I only hope that she does eventually write a full biography because that would be a fantastic read. But then again maybe she wants some secrets to stay secret. And for a \"Hollywood Inbreed\" celebrity whose life was always in the open, she probably deserves that privacy. ...more This was the kind of light-hearted-about-tough-shit reading I love. A brief peek behind the curtain of Carrie Fisher's life and a funny yet original portrayal of mental illness. 3.5 stars. I didn't expect to enjoy this, since I hadn't been able to get into her last book, The Princess Diarist . However, I found myself frequently laughing out loud at her irreverence, profanity, candid look at being bipolar, and her oddball take on her life and life in general. Reread in light of recent events. I knew when I spotted this book on the shelf at the bookstore that I wanted to read it. I have always loved both Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds. I have read at least two of Fisher's novels, and I figured if her nonfiction was half as funny as her fiction, then I would enjoy this too. Plus, who can resist the picture on the cover of Princess Leia slumped over a martini glass and pills? I was not disappointed. I laughed out loud several times, and I really liked her quote near the beginning that I knew when I spotted this book on the shelf at the bookstore that I wanted to read it. I have always loved both Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds. I have read at least two of Fisher's novels, and I figured if her nonfiction was half as funny as her fiction, then I would enjoy this too. Plus, who can resist the picture on the cover of Princess Leia slumped over a martini glass and pills? I was not disappointed. I laughed out loud several times, and I really liked her quote near the beginning that pretty much sums up her personal philosophy: \"If my life wasn't funny it would just be true, and that is unacceptable.\" This is a quick, very funny (and at times very sad) read that apparently is based on Fisher's one woman show of the same name (who knew she had a one woman show?!) I knew the premise - that her father Eddie Fisher left her mother Debbie Reynolds for Liz Taylor - but I did not know how close Taylor and Reynolds were before this happened, and I had no earthly idea how frequently both parents remarried (not each other) after their divorce. No wonder Fisher includes a pictorial chart to help explain it all! I love that she refers to her father as Puff Daddy (drug reference, not cigarettes) and changed the name of his memoir from Been There, Done That to Been There, Done Them. And I feel strangely vindicated after reading her very brief memories of filming the Star Wars movies, because for some strange reason I remember noticing when watching Star Wars long ago that it seemed to me that Princess Leia could have used a better bra. Turns out, according to George Lucas, the existence of a bra would not have been appropriate in outer space! (You'll have to read the book to find out how they worked around this little glitch.) There are far too many good quotes in this book to capture here. There are some serious passages mixed in with the funny ones about dealing with mental illness (Fisher is bipolar and her treatment has inclued electroshock therapy). At one point Fisher writes about finding out that her picture appears in a psychology textbook, and she reflects on the surreal phenomenon of forever being identified as Princess Leia. When discussing her mood swings, she explains that she named her manic side Roy and her depressed side Pam (which stands for \"piss and moan\"). This reminded me of a passge in one of her novels. One of her characters has AIDS and only has 2 T-cells left, which he promptly names Mutt and Jeff. She also discusses her passionate but seemingly doomed from the beginning relationship with first husband Paul Simon, along with the demise of her second marriage after her second husband realized he was gay. (She claims this is her super power - turning men gay.) All things considered, having experienced everything that she has in her life, she not only is in pretty good shape, but in my opinion, also has a great outlook. I would recommend this to anyone whose life has somehow been touched by mental illness or anyone who is a Fisher fan (or just appreciates a good laugh, for that matter). ...more Funny and bittersweet. Or maybe just funny and bitter. Or sarcastically hilarious. She drowned in moonlight, strangled by her own bra. Wishful Drinking is the saddest biography I've ever read. I'm sure die-hard fans of Carrie Fisher may enjoy and appreciate this book, but if you're looking for some fun celebrity comic-relief, definitely pass this one up. Wishful Drinking begins with Carrie Fisher explaining how proud she is to be starting her life over at the age of fifty-two after having undergone electroshock therapy. She states how she can't remember much of her life up until the writing of Wishful Drinking, and also tries to Wishful Drinking is the saddest biography I've ever read. I'm sure die-hard fans of Carrie Fisher may enjoy and appreciate this book, but if you're looking for some fun celebrity comic-relief, definitely pass this one up. Wishful Drinking begins with Carrie Fisher explaining how proud she is to be starting her life over at the age of fifty-two after having undergone electroshock therapy. She states how she can't remember much of her life up until the writing of Wishful Drinking, and also tries to spin bipolar disorder into something normal, light and humorous. Carrie Fisher sprinkles random anecdotes about her life throughout Wishful Drinking, all of which aren't funny at all. I understand she is trying to maintain a positive outlook on her alcoholic, drug-ridden life, but her writing isn't humbling at all; just boastful. If Fisher had reflected more on what she's learned and how she's overcome her problems, then Wishful Drinking might have been more redeeming. Instead, her biography comes across as pathetic. In Hollywood there are many existing celebrities whose parents are celebrities as well, but despite being born into a whirlwind of stardom, the stronger personalities do eventually grow up at some point. When I originally saw Wishful Drinking in the bookstore, I thought to myself, \"Wow! Princess Leia is finally going to come forward and share with the world how she overcame her drug and alcohol problems because she's finally grown up and learned something!\" Boy was I wrong! I recommend Wishful Drinking only to the faithful fans of Carrie Fisher. ...more Wishful Drinking by Carrie Fisher (audio) I enjoyed listening to this book, narrated by Princess Leia. Okay, it was narrated by Carrie Fisher. I found it to be funny and brutally honest, but I didn't discover much that I didn't already know. Plus, I expected it to be longer. It was only a couple of hours and that was it. I checked this out from my local library, but if I had paid good money for it, I would probably be upset because it was so short. Overall, I liked it, but I didn't get all tha Wishful Drinking by Carrie Fisher (audio) I enjoyed listening to this book, narrated by Princess Leia. Okay, it was narrated by Carrie Fisher. I found it to be funny and brutally honest, but I didn't discover much that I didn't already know. Plus, I expected it to be longer. It was only a couple of hours and that was it. I checked this out from my local library, but if I had paid good money for it, I would probably be upset because it was so short. Overall, I liked it, but I didn't get all that I had expected. Recommended for those not familiar with Carrie Fisher's story, (does that apply to anyone?) ...more in case I had forgotten, this book reminded me how awesome Carrie Fisher is. and how much I fucking love her. she is brilliant and absolutely nuts. her jokes are so dark and funny at the same time. I can only wish to one day have her attitude towards life, even when all things go to shit. I literally loved this book so much, I can't think of nothing bad to say about it. full review here: https://catshelf.wordpress.com/2017/0... You know what\u2019s funny about death? I mean other than absolutely nothing at all? This was a really fun autobiography! I had come across this book on BookDepository over a year ago and was immediately taken by that humorous cover. For some dumb reason I had been reluctant to buy it because I had recently discovered the wonder that was Carrie Fisher (not Princess Leia, I knew her, I\u2019m not that lost) and was afraid that she wouldn\u2019t be as funny in her book as she was in her interviews. Lucky for me, You know what\u2019s funny about death? I mean other than absolutely nothing at all? This was a really fun autobiography! I had come across this book on BookDepository over a year ago and was immediately taken by that humorous cover. For some dumb reason I had been reluctant to buy it because I had recently discovered the wonder that was Carrie Fisher (not Princess Leia, I knew her, I\u2019m not that lost) and was afraid that she wouldn\u2019t be as funny in her book as she was in her interviews. Lucky for me, I was wrong. I can\u2019t really find a proper way to review this book because\u2026 really, how can I? So I\u2019m going to show you some of my favorite quotes: \u201dOh my God! I thought about you every day from when I was twelve to when I was twenty two.\u201d Instead of asking what happened at twenty two, I said, \u201cEvery day?\u201d He shrugged and said, \u201cWell, four times a day.\u201d Welcome to the land of too much information. I have to start by telling you that my entire existence could be summed up in one phrase. And that is: If my life wasn\u2019t funny it would just be true, and that is unacceptable. My mother, who incidentally lives next door to me, she calls me to this day and says \u201cHello, dear, this is your mother, Debbie.\u201d (As opposed to my mother Vladimir or Jean-Jaques.) You know how they say that religion is the opiate of the masses? Well, I took masses of opiates religiously. And my favorite thing this woman said to me was, \u201cI\u2019m so sorry we had to meet under these conditions.\u201d Hello!? You\u2019re a grief counselor! What other conditions would we meet under? Then she says, \u201cI can\u2019t even imagine what you\u2019ve been through.\u201d You can\u2019t!? Well if you can\u2019t then I\u2019m really fucked. I have to admit it was sad to read about some of the things she wanted to do or was hoping that would happen before she died, and that we now know won\u2019t happen. It was a bitter sweet read, but I fully recommend it! ...more iskreno, brutalno i na trenutke duhovito Truth - I've never seen anything with Carrie Fisher in. I've read about her and heard about her via fans.. This is the first meeting I've had with Carrie Fisher. And so far.. I love her. Over the past year, I've read a lot of celebrity memoirs and a lot of addiction memoirs. I'm most heavily on the lookout for celebrity addiction memoirs, as you can imagine. Cue Carrie Fisher's Wishful Drinking , the cover art of which depicts Princess Leia passed out face down on a table, still clutching a drained martini. So far so good, right? And the thing's Kate Moss-thin, too, like 171 pages soaking wet. You could read this in less time than it takes to recover from a four-drink hangover, Over the past year, I've read a lot of celebrity memoirs and a lot of addiction memoirs. I'm most heavily on the lookout for celebrity addiction memoirs, as you can imagine. Cue Carrie Fisher's Wishful Drinking , the cover art of which depicts Princess Leia passed out face down on a table, still clutching a drained martini. So far so good, right? And the thing's Kate Moss-thin, too, like 171 pages soaking wet. You could read this in less time than it takes to recover from a four-drink hangover, and here's why -- Wishful Drinking the book was adapted from Wishful Drinking the one-woman Broadway stage show. When I say \"adapted,\" I mean \"essentially transcribed.\" Almost all the cadence, detail and delivery are designed specifically for the spoken word. In some cases, the presentation works great. In many other cases, though, Fisher should and could've retrofitted the format transition to the material's advantage. Even the foreword Fisher wrote specifically for the book version clashes with the material that comes right after, like, \"If she was paying attention, she wouldn't have to tell us this identical detail twice in the span of ten pages.\" There's funny stuff, though. The book opens strong with a bit explaining her confusing family tree -- her parents, both famous, divorced, remarried and eventually remarried each other. Fisher deftly and entertainingly navigates her way through. Most everywhere else in the book, Fisher is on a full-on crusade to be entertaining. Every sentence has an attempted punchline, whether it needs one or not. Fisher tries so terribly hard that it becomes burdensome, and it takes away from the unforced, for-real comic payoffs. Also, I'm not a big Star Wars person, but I was getting the vibe from Fisher that, \"I'm sick of Star Wars , I'm sick of telling the stories, but that's what a bunch of you are paying for, so here's another one...... wasn't that great? I'll do another one in a few minutes. I can't do 'em all at once, or you sci-fi geeks'll never stay with me till the end.\" I didn't get enough of what I signed on for, though, which was the addiction memoir aspect. The tone there was, \"I used to drink a lot. I like drugs. Alcohol and drugs got me into trouble. I found AA. It doesn't always work for me. I'm still bipolar and have to manage that. Most of the time, I'm sober. Sometimes I'm not. I was married to Paul Simon once, but I ain't saying shit about it. Three pages till the next Star Wars story.\" ...more I read Princess Diarist in December and knew I needed more of Carrie's writing in my life. She is so raw and honest. This is also a memoir, but it goes a little deeper into her history with drugs and family. My favorite line was when she talks about reading her dad's memoir, feeling the need to get her DNA fumigated. The stories about Gene Kelly calling her and giving her intervention talks were great. She definitely has a sense of humor around these things, but it didn't come off as her not tak I read Princess Diarist in December and knew I needed more of Carrie's writing in my life. She is so raw and honest. This is also a memoir, but it goes a little deeper into her history with drugs and family. My favorite line was when she talks about reading her dad's memoir, feeling the need to get her DNA fumigated. The stories about Gene Kelly calling her and giving her intervention talks were great. She definitely has a sense of humor around these things, but it didn't come off as her not taking it seriously. Especially when it comes to her daughter. You can tell that Billie's presence had a lot to do with her cleaning up, and she has so much love and respect for Billie. In this one, she also talks a bit about her research process for Postcards From The Edge (which I'm now reading). Also, it's super impressive that she still had her monologue from Star Wars IV memorized at the time that she wrote this book. She brings up electro-shock therapy in this book and how it effected her memory. She does go through her history with different therapies, psychiatrists, drugs, etc. in regards to her process and how she decided to go through electro-shock therapy. I keep remembering more things to say about this book, but if you're looking for something to read that has a great voice, is about mental health, and Carrie Fisher, this is your book. ...more<---C>Carrie Fisher</---C>", "Title": "Wishful Drinking"},
