{"Comments": "There is no school cooler than the Gallagher Academy. There is no profession more exciting than being a spy. You know how Harry Potter is THE DEAL? Well, this is MY Harry Potter. I would choose to become a Gallagher Girl over a witch anytime. Also, you'll want to have book 5 close to you when you finish this book.<---F> Trust me</---F>. I THINK THIS ONE WAS MY FAVORITE ONE! why? because: 1) More Spying 2) More action 3)More answers 4) More Zach 5) More Zach/Cammie moments wow... WOW!!!! WOW!!!!! oksy now that I'm done... i liked the ending! I hope she brings Zach with her! hehe it was his idea afterall. (you'll find out what i'm talking about when you read the book) Honestly i thought the Gallagher Girls books were getting repetitive pattern: school>somethinghappens>school mission then it I thought it was going to go: something hap I THINK THIS ONE WAS MY FAVORITE ONE! why? because: 1) More Spying 2) More action 3)More answers 4) More Zach 5) More Zach/Cammie moments wow... WOW!!!! WOW!!!!! oksy now that I'm done... i liked the ending! I hope she brings Zach with her! hehe it was his idea afterall. (you'll find out what i'm talking about when you read the book) Honestly i thought the Gallagher Girls books were getting repetitive pattern: school>somethinghappens>school mission then it I thought it was going to go: something happens over vacation> school>spy... but it wasn't like that ^^. AAND i loooove Zach! he's awesome! and this book made REALLY miss Mr. Solomon and realized what an awesome character he is. You'll understand all my blebbering once you read the book. GO.... NOW it was so intensseeeeee~ ...more I've always been a fan of the Gallagher Girl series. I think that an all girls school for spies would be an absolute dream, don't ask me why because I really don't know. But <+++>Only the Good Spy Young</+++> was another interesting addition to the series and left me hanging for more. The Circle,<---M> an organization of double agents</---M>, has been tracking down and trying to capture <---C>Cammie Morgan</---C>, a junior at the the Gallagher Academy for Exceptional Young Women. There, she learns how to survive the most dangerous I've always been a fan of the Gallagher Girl series. I think that an all girls school for spies would be an absolute dream, don't ask me why because I really don't know. But <+++>Only the Good Spy Young</+++> was another interesting addition to the series and left me hanging for more. The Circle, an organization of double agents, has been tracking down and trying to capture Cammie Morgan, a junior at the the Gallagher Academy for Exceptional Young Women. There, she learns how to survive the most dangerous scenerios and everything she needs to know about how to be a spy. And when one of her most trusted allies and teachers is found to be a double agent in the Circle, she learns the truth of her father's death and the mysterious boy she's in love with. re-read december 2011 ...more This book was not as amazing as I expected it to be. It went above and beyond any expectations I had at all, and I loved every second of reading it. <---A>Ally Carter</---A> does a great job of including all of the sweet and funny aspects that readers have come to know in her writing, but she also shows the darker points of humanity, including a double cross, cruelty, and above all, secrecy. With a completely out-of-the-blue shocker to end the book, Ally Carter has a new masterpiece on her hands. Well done! This book was not as amazing as I expected it to be. It went above and beyond any expectations I had at all, and I loved every second of reading it. Ally Carter does a great job of including all of the sweet and funny aspects that readers have come to know in her writing, but she also shows the darker points of humanity, including a double cross, cruelty, and above all, secrecy. With a completely out-of-the-blue shocker to end the book, Ally Carter has a new masterpiece on her hands. Well done! She knows how to leave the readers wanting more in the Gallagher Girls series. I can't wait for book number 5. ...more Ally Carter is not finished writing this series, but I may be finished reading it. A shame, because it started out so different and positive and kind of cool. The worst to be said was that it was a little too naive and upbeat. But it's published by Hyperion, which is owned by Disney, so all the sparkles are a little expected. Besides, this series boasts ideas such as girl power, loyalty, and even self respect over cute boys (unheard of in YA, right?) so it's a great series for younger girls. How Ally Carter is not finished writing this series, but I may be finished reading it. A shame, because it started out so different and positive and kind of cool. The worst to be said was that it was a little too naive and upbeat. But it's published by Hyperion, which is owned by Disney, so all the sparkles are a little expected. Besides, this series boasts ideas such as girl power, loyalty, and even self respect over cute boys (unheard of in YA, right?) so it's a great series for younger girls. However, at the fourth installment of the series it is still all about protagonist Cammie Morgan. Her bff's/roomies/fellow spies-in-training Bex, Macey and Liz remain bland, one dimensional cheerleaders for Team Cammie. The adults all focus on Cammie. And heartthrob/mystery guy/danger guy/ridiculously-to-suave-to-be-a-teenager Zach continues to swoop into and out of Cammie's life. At this point in the series... it is not perfect, but there are so many positive's which outweigh the negatives. Yet, how disappointing that by book four the cast of characters are no more in depth than they are in the first installment? Yes, the themes approached in each book are more mature. But the writing, plot and characterization remain the same. These have been cute books and great brain candy. For younger girls, I recommend them whole-heartedly. But for adult readers of YA.... ah, read at your own risk ;) ...more So I accidentally abandoned this series 2 years ago. FOR NO REASON. I like Ally Carter, I do! I always felt the first Gallagaher Books were a bit young (peoples, I like things dark and sinister). Anyway! I wanted to finish it! And...because it's been sooo looooong since I read bk 3 I basically had forgotten absolutely everything and therefore bk 4 made about 2% sense. MY FAULT. But it still didn't make the read so enjoyable. By the end I was more in the groove though. And by groove, I mean, I wa So I accidentally abandoned this series 2 years ago. FOR NO REASON. I like Ally Carter, I do! I always felt the first Gallagaher Books were a bit young (peoples, I like things dark and sinister). Anyway! I wanted to finish it! And...because it's been sooo looooong since I read bk 3 I basically had forgotten absolutely everything and therefore bk 4 made about 2% sense. MY FAULT. But it still didn't make the read so enjoyable. By the end I was more in the groove though. And by groove, I mean, I wasn't going \"WHO THE HECK IS MACY? Oh yeah. An extremely important friend. Ah. I totally knew that. Totally knew it.\" Erm. Ahem. So this is a very fast-actiony-and-emotional GG book. Cammie is recovering from bk 3 (I'd say WHAT and WHY but I have no idea. Gee, you peoples. Stop expecting things from me.) And everyone is like closeting her and protecting her and asking if her head's okay and feeding her M&Ms, normal stuff. Then BOOM. Secrets come out about the death of her dad! Her mother might be missing! She has to break into the deep dark secret depths of the school! Mr. Solomon is probably evil! (Bah. Called that in book 1.) And Zach is...I don't know?! A creep? HE IS A CREEP. *ahem* Also they get a new sucky teacher. He reminded me of an American, spy-master Snape. Also is it just me or is Mr. Solomon's kind of, erm interest in Cammie a mite bit too creepy? Like I don't know if SHE had a crush on him, but she frequently mentions he's \"hot\" so. He's like 2 million years older. So. No. And also I HATE ZACH. I was not surprised when Cammie discovered the secrets behind Blackthorne. I mean, HELLO. DUH. Of course they are (view spoiler) [ assassins. Called it. (hide spoiler) ] Also Cammie is suffering from Special Snowflake Syndrome. Consider me disappointed. But...as long as there's a good reason...not that they tell you anything in this book. Half the conversations are like: Gallagher Girl: I ate a sandwich today, what did you eat? Spy: THAT'S CLASSIFIED. RED ALERT. DON'T ASK ME THAT. HOW COULD YOU? I THOUGH YOU WERE SMARTER THAN THIS? OMG, YOU BRAT. Which is...tiring. To say the least. ANYWAY! I'm being a negative hedgehog! It's not all THAT bad. Haha. no no! I do still love the teenage spies. I love the missions and the covert operations and the voice. It kind of reminds me of Percy Jackson a bit. Particularly when the girls go on this super undercover mission in the Academy...in their PJs, so if anyone stops them they won't be suspicious. THAT'S CUTE. And there are tons of lists and hilarious quips and it's an entirely enjoyable book. I still feel it's aimed at a younger YA audience, even though Cammie's just turned 17. But that makes sense and I don't mind. It's not a bloody gory spy series. And I do like it...I'm just not...infatuated. I think I do want to finish the series. Even though my brain is like watermelon soup and I still can't remember anything that happened in bk 3. ANYWAY. Spies are cool. And I still wish this was made into a TV series. [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more Oh my gosh, I loved this book so much. I flew through it in several hours. It was brilliant and amazing. The best Gallagher Girl book yet, and that's saying something because I absolutely LOVE every single book in the series. Questions, oh the questions that are answered in Only the Good Spy Young! Ally Carter ties up so many strings, yet leaves about a zillion more questions you want answers to in their place. We meet old characters and new characters too. I just love Liz. She's one of my favor Oh my gosh, I loved this book so much. I flew through it in several hours. It was brilliant and amazing. The best Gallagher Girl book yet, and that's saying something because I absolutely LOVE every single book in the series. Questions, oh the questions that are answered in Only the Good Spy Young! Ally Carter ties up so many strings, yet leaves about a zillion more questions you want answers to in their place. We meet old characters and new characters too. I just love Liz. She's one of my favorite characters. She's the little Southern girl who's totally smart. There's this one new character, I absolutely hated him from the first page he appeared on. I thought he was a pompous idiot. I'm pretty sure my family thought I was crazy while I was reading Only the Good Spy Young. One minute I'd be screaming, NOOOO! another I'd be like OMG OMG, others I be cheering. Carter had you making guesses about this, then you'd be going in another direction, so you'd assume it meant that, then you'd be completely wrong! I got so into Only the Good Spy Young! I think that was part of what made me love it so much. While I got into the other books, I don't recall getting into them as much as I did for Only the Good Spy Young. In fact, I don't ever recall getting into many books this much. Ally Carter's writing is absolutely fantastic. It just draws you in. With page 1, I was hooked. I had tons of homework to be doing, but instead I told myself I'd read just 50 pages. Two and a half hours later I had finished the book. I simply couldn't put it down. My tip to you, follow your heart when your reading or you might die (quite literally!) Only the Good Spy Young was absolutely amazing. It's a book I would say GO BUY THIS INSTANCE. The ending was brilliant. One of the best endings ever. And now I really need Gallagher Girls 5, is it next year yet? **I also feel this is my favorite cover of the series yet. I just absolutely love it ...more I haven't read this in years. But all I can remember is ZACH!!!! <3 <3 Reviewed by Jaglvr for TeensReadToo.com ONLY THE GOOD SPY YOUNG starts the reader off with heart-pounding suspense...as can be expected in the Gallagher Girl series. Cammie is on winter break in England with Bex and her MI-6 parents and an army of agents watching over her. But on New Year's while ice skating, she finds Zach watching her across the ice. All of a sudden, the rink goes dark and her Covert Ops teacher, Mr. Solomon, tries to steal her away. Cammie can't figure out why Mr. Solomon is be Reviewed by Jaglvr for TeensReadToo.com ONLY THE GOOD SPY YOUNG starts the reader off with heart-pounding suspense...as can be expected in the Gallagher Girl series. Cammie is on winter break in England with Bex and her MI-6 parents and an army of agents watching over her. But on New Year's while ice skating, she finds Zach watching her across the ice. All of a sudden, the rink goes dark and her Covert Ops teacher, Mr. Solomon, tries to steal her away. Cammie can't figure out why Mr. Solomon is being chased by MI-6 or why he would tell her to \"follow the pigeons.\" It's after he jumps off a drawbridge to escape the agents that Cammie's world starts turning all over again. Cammie is led to believe that Mr. Solomon is part of \"The Circle\" that tried to kidnap her before. If Cammie knew anything, it was that Mr. Solomon was one of the few people she could trust implicitly. She can't imagine he is part of The Circle or could harm her. But all evidence is pointing to just that. When Cammie and Bex return to school to start their spring term, things have drastically changed. Cammie is forbidden to leave the grounds, and all the secret passageways she spent years discovering are gone. With the help of Bex, Liz, and Macey, the four girls are determined to figure out Mr. Solomon's cryptic message, and discover the secrets he wants her to know. Of course, Zach, the dreamy Blackthorne boy who always seems to show up when Cammie is in the most danger, is figured prominently in ONLY THE GOOD SPY YOUNG. But Zach is connected to Mr. Solomon somehow, and again, Cammie doesn't know who she can believe in. There is a new teacher at school, taking over Covert Ops, Mr. Townson. Cammie met him when she was debriefed in England after the attempted kidnapping by Mr. Solomon. Mr. Townson is hiding something, and Cammie and the girls don't trust him, either. I can't tell you how frustrated I was when I got to the final page. I was like, \"What? NO!!!\" There is nothing like a total cliffhanger to leave the reader in eager anticipation for the next installment. Because there HAS to be a follow-up to this one; there HAS to be! According to Ms. Carter's website, she ultimately plans on six books. So, The Circle is still out there, mysteries abound as to what happened to Cammie's dad, and Cammie the Chameleon won't rest until she can bring closure. As long as The Circle exists, Cammie will never be safe. If you've read the first three books in the Gallagher Girl series, you won't want to miss ONLY THE GOOD SPY YOUNG. The story delves deeper than the previous ones, and the action is continuous and exciting. Cammie is coming into her own, and Ms. Carter has added that extra element to this one to make the story even more addicting. ...more i finished it in like two hours and that were some of the most heart-breaking two hours in my life After reading this book, which I loved by the way I just have one question........... HOW THE HELL DID THIS SERIES GO FROM A, MEH I MIGHT GET AROUND TO READING THE NEXT BOOK SERIES TO A OMGGGG I NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW!!!!!! SERIES? It was only the good spy young Is all I really know, I was not expecting to be flabbergasted when i finished this book, sooooooooo, if someone would like to clue me on why this book became so amazing please do................................... No takers??????.......... After reading this book, which I loved by the way I just have one question........... HOW THE HELL DID THIS SERIES GO FROM A, MEH I MIGHT GET AROUND TO READING THE NEXT BOOK SERIES TO A OMGGGG I NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW!!!!!! SERIES? It was only the good spy young Is all I really know, I was not expecting to be flabbergasted when i finished this book, sooooooooo, if someone would like to clue me on why this book became so amazing please do................................... No takers??????.......................Okay, I guess Im on my own to figure it out. Hmmmmm, maybe it was a)\tThe characters, which were amazing. b)\tThe storyline, which got more and more interesting and kept me on my toes. c)\tThe writing which I had always liked but now I loved I am still not quite sure what changed in this book, I had always liked the characters, the storyline and the writing. One thing changed in this book, and I think this might be one of the things that made it so great................... Cammie was questioning more, and didn\u2019t rellie on others as much, also there was a lot more Zach in this book and yeah, that made it pretty amazing as well. What ever it was, I\u2019m not complaining, I adored this book, and i cant wait for the next one, This book was action packed, had funny comments, I loved all the lists, loved all the characters and the betrayals, and of course all the Cammie and Zach moments. ...more Ooh, the story is starting to get darker. (4.5) But YES. Something that never fails to irritate me: A person is in danger and needs to be protected, but nobody tells her what the hell is going on. Especially if said person in danger is a girl who is training to be a spy. There is a disconnect there, especially when she gets into as much trouble as she does. Nobody tells Cammie anything when she's a key person--they all just expect her to fall in line (yeah, right, when has she ever done that?). It's crazy how they can teach the girl how to undermine c Something that never fails to irritate me: A person is in danger and needs to be protected, but nobody tells her what the hell is going on. Especially if said person in danger is a girl who is training to be a spy. There is a disconnect there, especially when she gets into as much trouble as she does. Nobody tells Cammie anything when she's a key person--they all just expect her to fall in line (yeah, right, when has she ever done that?). It's crazy how they can teach the girl how to undermine countries and yet they still can't trust her with something that pertains to her. Bah. In any case, the Ghallagher Girl books are a super light read. You really can't take any of it seriously (think about it seriously), or else holes will pop up all over the place. Huge glaring holes that make a person wince and try to turn away except they're always there. Eh. Otherwise it's a fun read, if shallow. Things come a little too easily to Cammie and the gang, but otherwise they'd probably never get anything done. The ending was a bit better, but overall... about 2 stars for this book. I liked the previous Ghallagher Girl books better than this one. ...more Ally Carter has done it again! Her Heist Society series was the first I'd ever read of Ally's, and I just adore those characters (yes, present tense adore. And just Hale *sighs*) and the ridiculous cleverness of everything that this author creates. I gave this series a try at my sisters' insistence, and I'm so glad I did! Ally has a way of making characters that you just want to hang out with and laugh over a bag of M&Ms, and the situations and humor in her stories: WARNING! There WILL be ac Ally Carter has done it again! Her Heist Society series was the first I'd ever read of Ally's, and I just adore those characters (yes, present tense adore. And just Hale *sighs*) and the ridiculous cleverness of everything that this author creates. I gave this series a try at my sisters' insistence, and I'm so glad I did! Ally has a way of making characters that you just want to hang out with and laugh over a bag of M&Ms, and the situations and humor in her stories: WARNING! There WILL be actual gut-laughing in public places! It's very rare that you can find a story, let alone series, that is so adorable, fun, and incredibly clever that it just makes you smile to see them on your shelves. The author has an awesome balance of fast-paced adventure interspersed with roll-your-eyes humor. This is my favorite book in the series so far, and though they are written for younger groups, they are so enjoyable that you can't help but get caught up in the fun and creative plots. Definitely give this series a try! ...more This book is definitely the best in the series to far terms of the plot, characters, and the writing. It reminds me a bit of Harry Potter. The writing, subject matter, and perspective on life are all maturing as both the characters and readers mature. This installment was stuffed full of intrigue, betrayal, pain, fright, and hope. I stayed up till 3 am just to finish it because I kept saying one more chapter, or I'll stop as soon as I figure this out. Before I realized it I had read half the boo This book is definitely the best in the series to far terms of the plot, characters, and the writing. It reminds me a bit of Harry Potter. The writing, subject matter, and perspective on life are all maturing as both the characters and readers mature. This installment was stuffed full of intrigue, betrayal, pain, fright, and hope. I stayed up till 3 am just to finish it because I kept saying one more chapter, or I'll stop as soon as I figure this out. Before I realized it I had read half the book and knew I couldn't stop till I was finished. I have been getting these books from the library but if the series stays as good as this one was I will definitely have to buy them to reread. ...more These seriously keep getting better and better. I started this book at 1:30am, it is now 4:30am and I've finished it. I can't even remember the last time I read a book in one sitting. I didn't even stop to go to the bathroom, it's just been three solid hours of reading. I just seriously love these books so much. I love all these characters and the plots just keep getting more intriguing. I get giddy just looking at this. Hehehehehehehehehehehe. Ally Carter. just an fyi to all of you readers of this here postie reveiw, I will have you know that I practically ripped my hair out from its roots begging my mother to take me to the bookstore the day it came out. I was running around the house, drinking apple juice(since I don't like soda or coffee, apple juice is the next best thing) and screaming until my voice was raw. At this point you are probably thinking, \"Dude. This chic has no I get giddy just looking at this. Hehehehehehehehehehehe. Ally Carter. just an fyi to all of you readers of this here postie reveiw, I will have you know that I practically ripped my hair out from its roots begging my mother to take me to the bookstore the day it came out. I was running around the house, drinking apple juice(since I don't like soda or coffee, apple juice is the next best thing) and screaming until my voice was raw. At this point you are probably thinking, \"Dude. This chic has no life. I bet she's like, twelve.\" And to you, I say, I do have a life, and it consists of the following: 1. Eating 2. Sleeping 3. Reading Books. So there you have it. That's my life. And to the age-thingie, I am almost sixteen. I have always had this dream of being a spy, though. Sounds pretty epic. But back to my story! Despite my rants and jumping on the ceilings, my mother is one tough cookie. I didn't get the book until about noon. (insert horror-movie screaming here) The horror! I read the book, cover to cover, in a few hours. Then I cried. You ask why? 10 months until the next book. I suffered severe withdrawl and visited a therapist fully equipped with a plush sitting chair and he said, \"And how does that make you feel?\". (slight exaggeration, the chair was rather lumpy). But you didn't come here to hear about my depression issues. Onto the story! Beautiful. As we know, the Circle is... *Spoiler here* After Cammie!!! And, Solomon is a traitor!(insert dramatic music here) *End Soiler* This wrench thrown in made my heart ache. I was so hurt by this fact, and felt as betrayed as Cammie did. I loved how Ally had the characters' emotions develop, and even change as the situation became more intense. As in, Bex was being cautious. If you read the first three, your eyes will be getting very wide right about now. Bex was being protective, and discouraging mischief (Merlin's Beard, what's going on?!) I personally love Bex, and seeing how much she changed due to her concern and worry was great. Also, I liked Townsend. He amused me and I'd like to see him more in future novels. Also, I liked Cammie, though at points I wanted to personally lock her in a bunker because of her...\"danger-tendencies\". The sudden knowledge of her true situation made her more independent and detached than ever. Though i understand that suspense can be a good thing to get people to read the next book, a shout-out to Ally Carter. Ahem. \"WHAT THE HECK WERE YOU THINKING?!?! WE HAVE TO WA IT A WHOLE BLOODY YEAR TO FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?!?! AND WHAT ABOUT THOSE LAST FEW CHAPTERS, HUH?!?! I WAS NOT EXPECTING THAT!!!! WHYYYYYYY?!?!?! WHYYYYYYYYY?!?!\" ~Two Days Later~ Mr. Therapist: \"I read something about the Book-that-must-not-be-Named that you posted, and I found it rather revealing. So now that you wrote it, how is it making you feel?\" Me: \"I dunno, I'm still pretty angry with Ally for the cliffhanger though...\" Mr. Therapist: \"Mmhm. And how does THAT make you feel?\" Me: \"...like I need the next book ASAP?\" Mr. Therapist: \" I see. And how does THAT make you feel?\" Me: \"Uh...is there an echo in here? I want the next stinkin' book!\" Mr. Therapist: \"Calm yourself. The next book, \"Out of Sight, Out of Time\" will be out in a couple mo-\" Me: \"WHY DID YOU SAY THE NAME?!?! WHY WOULD YOU REMIND ME?!?! WHY!?!? I WANT IT!!!!!!!\" *breaks down in tears* Mr. Therapist:\"...And how does that make you feel?\" ...more ONLY THE EYES OF GALLAGHER GIRLS MAY READ THE CONTENTS Operative Sabrina Upon gaining access to the novel Only the Good Spy Young by subject Carter, the Operative was able to ascertain the following: ~ The romance is undeniably evivident throughout. According to Operatives Sutton, Baxter and McHenry, Operative Morgan is \"in love\" with an asset who had firsthand knowledge of the Blackthorne Institute. ~ Said asset has shown to reciprocate feelings towards Operative Morgan. The asset is privy to som ONLY THE EYES OF GALLAGHER GIRLS MAY READ THE CONTENTS Operative Sabrina Upon gaining access to the novel Only the Good Spy Young by subject Carter, the Operative was able to ascertain the following: ~ The romance is undeniably evivident throughout. According to Operatives Sutton, Baxter and McHenry, Operative Morgan is \"in love\" with an asset who had firsthand knowledge of the Blackthorne Institute. ~ Said asset has shown to reciprocate feelings towards Operative Morgan. The asset is privy to some of the most awesome-smelling soap in the world. ~ WARNING: SPOILER AHEAD! The aforementioned asset's mother wishes to kill a certain Operative ~ The insitute for male spies, Blackthorne, will be revealed in this novel. ~ The Operative would like to congratulate subject Carter for including more and better action scenes ~ The Operative's favourite character remains to be Operative Sutton due to her ability to be both smart and \"kick-ass\" at the same time ~ The Operative would wish to warn potential readers that due to the surprises within the novel to not be drinking any liquid while reading, or else spit takes may take place ~ The writing was quite impressive and also made the Operative laugh quite loudly causing disruption in the library ~ Many unanswered questions were answered to only result in more questions. However, the Operative would like to note that the questions that made her think were a good thing ~ The pace of the novel perfect and flowed nicely. The Operative was rendered speachless after reading the final pages of the novel ~ Speaking of which, the Operative highly disliked the ending due to the fact that it was a cliff hanger and the Operative did not wish to wait another 2 years for the next installment ~ According to the Operative, Only the Good Spy Young will not disappoint. The Operative was able to obtain the following quotations and definitions: But, honestly, at that moment statistics were the last thing on my mind, because fluffly white snowflakes were floating through the night sky that stood between me and the one boy who didn't move, the boy who didn't swoon, the boy who just stood by the rails with his hands in his pockets, staring at me, saying, \"Happy New Year, Gallagher Girl\" (Carter, 4) Although Operative McHenry could not comment on the quotations, she allowed me to take a crack at it. The asset, Mr.Goode, is a mysterious boy, and it seems that Operative Morgan enjoys this quality. Promise me, Cammie! No matter what, promise me you will follow the pigeons (Carter, 17) Definition: The Operative as well as Operative Morgan were both unclear of the meaning behind \"follow the pigeons\" until the near end of the novel. As the main mystery of said novel, it was unraveled quite cleverly, in a way only a spy can do. Climbing the stairs to our room, I tried not to count the secret passageways that we should have passed (4); or the underclassmen who suddenly stopped whispering as soon as they saw me (6); or even the number of fingerprint-sensitive doors we had to pass through to reach our suite (9) (Carter, 53). This leads the Operative to make the 3 following observations: 1) The increased security measures to the Gallagher Academy were extreme, therefore the threat made to Operative Morgan must have been extreme. 2) Operative Morgan has an in-depth knowledge of the Gallagher Academy 3) The secret passageways were removed meaning that Operative Morgan was not the only one aware of such passageways. More shocking, those that removed them knew others had been using them. Realizing the majority of readers are uninterested in above quotes, the Operative has compiled a list of her 3 favourite quotes which display a high level of \"Zammie\": \"Despite having known him for almost a year, there were a lot of things I still didn't know about Zachary Goode. Like how soap and shampoo could smell so much better on him than anyone else. Like where he went when he wasn't mysteriously showing up at random (and frequently dangerous) points in my life. And, most of all, I didn't know how, when he mentioned the jacket, he made me think about the sweet, romantic part of the night last November when he'd given it to me, and not the terrible, bloody, international-terrorists-are-trying-to-kidnap-me part that came right after\" (Carter, 4) \"I might never have realized that Zach was disappointed to find another girl in the gazebo\" (Carter, 124) \"And then he pulled me closer, squeezed me so tightly that I could barely breathe. He pressed his lips hard against my forehead for a split second - nothing more - and when he finally let me go and disappeared back into the trees, I thought that I might fall\" (Carter, page 153) The Operative was also able to obtain the following \"gifs\" to better express her feelings toward the novel: Due to the following information, the Operative can confidently conclude that the novel Only the Good Spy Young is worthy of 5 stars and subject Carter is, in lack of better words, a genius. Operative Sabrina out ...more This series has gone downhill so much since the first book. I think Ally Carter's lost sight of her original plan? Book 1 was firmly tongue-in-cheek, with girls making bombs in chemistry class and being taught how to kill a man with a piece of uncooked spaghetti. But with each new book, the Gallagher Girls have moved more and more into Deep and Serious territory, and I think that's a mistake. I don't want to read about torture and death and mountains of angst. I want schoolgirls running around i This series has gone downhill so much since the first book. I think Ally Carter's lost sight of her original plan? Book 1 was firmly tongue-in-cheek, with girls making bombs in chemistry class and being taught how to kill a man with a piece of uncooked spaghetti. But with each new book, the Gallagher Girls have moved more and more into Deep and Serious territory, and I think that's a mistake. I don't want to read about torture and death and mountains of angst. I want schoolgirls running around in knee-high socks and foiling plans and abseiling down buildings. The more realistic Ally Carter tries to make this series, the more she has to gloss over how the girls actually do anything. Breaking into Sub-Level Two is a prime example. We're told that Liz \"cracks the code\" and Cammie \"disables the security devices\" like it's that simple, yet somehow none of the adults (who are all professional, experienced spies ) could manage that. And it's never even mentioned how they find the entrance to Sub-Level Two in the first place. Also: not enough of Macey being awesome. She's the strongest, most well-rounded character (and did I mention she's completely awesome?) but she had about three lines in this book. Disappointed! ...more Covert Operations Report By Anna Sk (hereafter referred to as \"The Operative\" ) Phase 4. Note : At this point the Operative had to go to ground in order to regroup and continue with the mission. During the fourth part of the mission the Operative managed to uncover some of the mystery that shrouded the mission and move accordingly to what she believed was the right course of action. She continued the mission. Despite of the seeming turncoats of this phase of the mission, the Operative still held back j Covert Operations Report By Anna Sk (hereafter referred to as \"The Operative\" ) Phase 4. Note : At this point the Operative had to go to ground in order to regroup and continue with the mission. During the fourth part of the mission the Operative managed to uncover some of the mystery that shrouded the mission and move accordingly to what she believed was the right course of action. She continued the mission. Despite of the seeming turncoats of this phase of the mission, the Operative still held back judgement and waited for more evidence before she decided to state plainly accusations. More secrets to be uncovered (with the most important one: how does Asset Goode move without anyone taking notice of him). The Operative had the urge to both protect Asset Morgan and unleash her to the field to raise Hell. In the end, Asset Morgan took matters into her own hands. Additional input: the Operative is still in mild shock over Asset Morgan's last action of this Phase. Proceed to Phase5 . ...more Reread: Jan 17 2015 The wifi was out yesterday so I ended up finishing the last three Gallagher Girls books and it was awesome. Man, I forgot how painful this one was. He's gone. He's just gone. Someone has to tell Rachel. Safe to say I shed a lot of tears. First read: April 2013 (5 stars) Thoughts: 1. GRIPPING! Conspiracies, twists, and everybody's not who they seem to be. 2. ZACH HOW DO YOU SEXY 3. The ending...Cammie what are you doing I need to read the next book. 2nd September 21, 2014 BEST BOOK EVER! Love this book from begging to start. This book is the whole reason I read and reread this series! In love with everything in it. 3rd May 15, 2015 THAT ENDING, never gets old! Oh I love it! Love it all!:) Zach is like the best guy ever I'm sad though.. the next book... Ya'll need to read this series! No joke! Never fails to amaze! Plot is gripping and chockfull of secrets and surprises. I find myself thinking, \"one more chapter then I'll wash the dishes,\" but you know how likely that is when you're in the middle of a great book. In most series, the first book is the best then the novels the come after get gradually worse and worse, but with Ally Carter's books, they maintain the amazing quality. Ahh i so want to read this book. I reckon Zach is the one who gets labelled as the rogue operative cause he always turns up where cammie is and that guy from the circle of cavan knew him and why wasn't he at blackthrone? Ahh cannot wait until it is out... Joe Soloman hs been labelled a double agent:( OH MY GOD. I'M DEAD I CAN'T WHAAAAT I am so glad I chose to read this series. Ally Carter is an amazing author who I would definitely recommend. It is hard to trust others once someone you thought you knew was a totally different person. Cammie's life only gets more complicated. She must be careful everywhere she goes because you never know someone's true identity and purpose in Cammie's life. I would definitely recommend this book and the rest of the series. HOT DAMN, THIS BOOK WAS INTENSE. I honestly don't know how these keep getting better but they do, and I can't wait to see where the plot goes next. *Review published on Mundie Moms on 10/1/2011* You know from my previous reviews that I adore both Cammie and Zach, but oh Mundie Moms, I have been waiting for this plot line ever since Zach walked into Cammie's life in book 2 ( Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy ). And the way Ally raises the stakes with each book, well, let's just say my patience was tested in the best possible way. Let me get this out of my system: Zach! Cammie! Dear God, Mr. Solomon! I can guarantee one thing, Mundie Moms, Zach isn't *Review published on Mundie Moms on 10/1/2011* You know from my previous reviews that I adore both Cammie and Zach, but oh Mundie Moms, I have been waiting for this plot line ever since Zach walked into Cammie's life in book 2 ( Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy ). And the way Ally raises the stakes with each book, well, let's just say my patience was tested in the best possible way. Let me get this out of my system: Zach! Cammie! Dear God, Mr. Solomon! I can guarantee one thing, Mundie Moms, Zach isn't the only one you will be swooning over. Hell-oooooo, Mr. Solomon. I adore how Zach and Mr. Solomon have been presented as almost the younger and older version of the same character type -- that swoony boy whose intentions you are never quite sure of. In Only the Good Spy Young , the intentions are no longer a mystery. Ally gives us Zach's backstory and suddenly everything becomes clear, personal and dangerous. But Cammie and Zach are still Cammie and Zach. I can't leave you without a sample of that delicious tension which makes me crazy (from page 206): \"Are you still mad at me?\" Zach whispered as we crossed the Pennsylvania border. His leg was pressing against mine, but I didn't think about how it felt, because my mother ( who is a spy ) was riding shotgun in the front seat, and my roommates ( who are future spies ) were surrounding us in the van. And besides, it doesn't take a lot of training to know that leg-pressing can seriously divert a girl from little things, like trying not to die. So I didn't say a word. \"Ooooh,\" Zach whispered. \"The silent treatment.\" \"I am not talking to you, Zach,\" I whispered, whirling on him, \"because I know you're not going to really say anything anyway. Should I be asking you more questions you refuse to answer.\" As I turned and faced forward again, watched the yellow lines of the highway flying by, I expected more excuses. More lies. But instead, Zach just leaned across me and whispered to Liz, \"She's cute when she's silent.\" Have I convinced you to pick up this series, yet? That tapping sound you hear are my nails tapping out the level of my anxiety while waiting for the next installment. I cannot wait until next year when Out of Sight, Out of Time comes out. ...more The best in the series so far. Cammie is in London with her friend, Bex. They're skating near the Tower of London, guarded by Bex's parents and virtually an entire legion of undercover agents. Yet despite the protection, Zach - the boy from Blackthorne, the boy Cammie is half-crazy about - manages to make contact with her. He's looking for Joe Solomon, Cammie's CoveOps (Covert Operations) teacher. And, as it turns out, Joe Solomon is looking for Cammie. In the middle of London Bridge, he finds her The best in the series so far. Cammie is in London with her friend, Bex. They're skating near the Tower of London, guarded by Bex's parents and virtually an entire legion of undercover agents. Yet despite the protection, Zach - the boy from Blackthorne, the boy Cammie is half-crazy about - manages to make contact with her. He's looking for Joe Solomon, Cammie's CoveOps (Covert Operations) teacher. And, as it turns out, Joe Solomon is looking for Cammie. In the middle of London Bridge, he finds her and delivers a mysterious message: 'Follow the pigeons.' Then, rather than be taken in for questioning by MI6 or the CIA, he plunges into the freezing cold Thames. Spoilers follow: Cammie just can't believe that someone she trusted as much as Joe Solomon could be a double agent. Could be working for the Circle of Cavan. But the facts are irrefutable. He was recruited by them when he was just 16, the same age she is. The evidence, however, is confusing. Cammie's friends point out all the inconsistencies in the evidence: Joe's saved her life more than once. Joe Solomon is replaced at the Gallagher Academy by Edward Townsend - an arrogant operative from MI6. And just coincidentally, the person who interrogated her after Joe's leap from London Bridge. If life isn't complicated enough, Zach is making it more so? Just how does he know where she'll be and when she's about to be in trouble? How does a boy who's supposed to be at school just appear when danger threatens her? And why do the Circle's hit men seem to avoid wanting to hurt him? Just how does an orphan from Blackthorne come and go as he pleases? And what's his relationship to Joe Solomon? As it turns out, Zach isn't orphaned at all. He's a trained assassin. Just as the Gallagher Academy tries girls to be spies, Blackthorne trains boys to be killers. And the reason he knows so much is because his mother is the one behind the attempts to abduct Cammie. It seems the Circle believes that Cammie knows something that could destroy them, once and for all. It's a pity that she doesn't know what it is. But when Joe Solomon and Zach choose to die - in the hopes of taking a significant group of the Circle to their deaths as well - she realises she is a danger to all those around her. So she decides to leave the Academy and strike out on her own. At least those she loves will be safe. Or so she thinks. ...more", "Title": "Only the Good Spy Young"},
