{"Comments": "Middling books are the hardest to review, dontchathink? Maybe it's the recent time change (<---B>is there any point to Daylight Savings Time anymore?</---B>), maybe it's the fact that I feel like I'm swimming uphill in my nursing clinical trying to get hours in, but <+++>Still Life</+++> kept putting me to sleep. A blurb (or a review, I forget which) compares her to Agatha Christie,<---M> which I suppose could be true</---M>, only it's a version of Christie that was being paid by the word and operates only inside people's heads, whi Middling books are the hardest to review, dontchathink? Maybe it's the recent time change (is there any point to Daylight Savings Time anymore?), maybe it's the fact that I feel like I'm swimming uphill in my nursing clinical trying to get hours in, but <+++>Still Life</+++> kept putting me to sleep. A blurb (or a review, I forget which) compares her to Agatha Christie, which I suppose could be true, only it's a version of Christie that was being paid by the word and operates only inside people's heads, which really isn't Christie at all. Consider Christie's brief character description from Crooked House about Uncle Roger, an emotional gentle giant: \u201cHe collided with a screen, said \u2018I beg your pardon\u2019 to it in a flustered manner, and went out of the room. It was rather like the exit of a bumble bee and left a noticeable silence behind it.\u201d In Still Life, we get characters musing: \"The studio was growing cold and Clara wondered whether Peter, sitting across the hall in his own studio was also cold. He would almost certainly, she thought with a twang of envy, be working too hard to notice. He never seemed to suffer from the uncertainty that could freeze her, leave her stuck and frozen in place. He just kept putting one foot in front of the other, producing his excruciatingly detailed works that sold for thousands in Montreal. It took him months to do each piece, he was so painfully precise and methodical. She'd given him a roller for his birthday one year and told him to paint faster. He didn't seem to appreciate the joke. Perhaps because it wasn't entirely a joke.\" Goodness, no wonder I kept falling asleep. There is a great deal of telling and hardly any showing. Dialogue is employed when it comes time to discover items of significance or sum up progress. Inspector Gamache, who I liked strictly because his name bears a resemblance to 'ganache,' holds an informal inquest and meets with all the villagers togther, reviewing the circumstances of the death. Later, he convenes with his team, reviewing clues brainstorming solutions. For those who fell asleep earlier, it's a nice chance to catch up.<---F> The plot is fine; nothing unusual</---F>. It is possibly even a bit predictable--as I've mentioned before, if I can figure out what the mystery is, it must be relatively simple. I did like a development near the end that further fleshed out a character. However, many of the characters were one note: the urbane gay couple that ran a bistro and whose main conversation seemed to be joking about being gay; the petulant, money-grabbing niece; the caustic village witch--I mean 'poet.' There was also a junior detective whose characterization was particularly strange. I thought perhaps she was involved to block a crucial plot point, but I think I was wrong. Overall, I'd have to say the Christie comparison wears thin. It's not that Christie wouldn't have had weak characters, just that in her best works they would have felt a little less farcical. Overall though, it's a nice little study of the small village of Three Pines in Quebec, and of the talented Inspector and his team. A bit too pastoral for my own tastes, it's a bit more like a painting of a haystack at sunset instead of a group of women dancing. To combat the sleepies I started reading from the end, hoping to find a strong finish that would invigorate me (it's kind of like hopscotch, a chapter or two, then flip back further). And while it did, I have no real interest in re-reading. I'll give the next couple a try, because my mom wants to give them a go and because my friends seem to enjoy the series. Of course, your own mileage may vary. Note that it won a first book award or two. Two, two-and-a-half stars. ...more Film Review Book Rating: 4.5* of five The Publisher Says : Winner of the New Blood Dagger, Arthur Ellis, Barry, Anthony, and Dilys awards. Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec and his team of investigators are called in to the scene of a suspicious death in a rural village south of Montr\u00e9al and yet a world away. Jane Neal, a long-time resident of Three Pines, has been found dead in the woods. The locals are certain it\u2019s a tragic hunting accident and nothing more but Gamache smells Film Review Book Rating: 4.5* of five The Publisher Says : Winner of the New Blood Dagger, Arthur Ellis, Barry, Anthony, and Dilys awards. Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec and his team of investigators are called in to the scene of a suspicious death in a rural village south of Montr\u00e9al and yet a world away. Jane Neal, a long-time resident of Three Pines, has been found dead in the woods. The locals are certain it\u2019s a tragic hunting accident and nothing more but Gamache smells something foul this holiday season\u2026and is soon certain that Jane died at the hands of someone much more sinister than a careless bowhunter. With this award-winning first novel, <---A>Louise Penny</---A> introduces an engaging hero in Inspector Gamache, who commands his forces\u2014and this series\u2014with power, ingenuity, and charm. My Review : Oh, the raptures of a first novel that also inaugurates a mystery series! It's like your first piece of birthday cake as a kid...OMIGOD this is good wait whaddaya mean I gotta wait another whole year to get another one you stink and you're mean *waaahIwantmymommy* But crafty old fifty-plussers like moi wait. We lurk behind the bakery, sniffing the ineffable esters of birthday cakes destined for the inexperienced and the impatient and the indiscriminate, mentally filing away those scents most closely followed by moans and slurps of ecstasy, biding our time and hoarding our book-calories (aka money) to see which annual yumyums consistently produce those sounds and smells. Here it is, ladies and what-all-else, the first birthday cake from Canadian cake-baker Louise Penny, and my GOD was it worth the wait! A friend sent this to me as a Christmas gift. It came after self-same friend raved and jumped up and down and yodeled the praises of the series, featuring Inspector Gamache of the Quebec Surete (I can't help myself, I hear Gestapo jackboots and Euro-sirens every time I see that word) and the odd, off-kilter inhabitants of Three Pines, Quebec. I was practically panting with eagerness to get this package, which when it arrived proved to contain *several* of the Gamache series. Being a good Virgo, I snatched up the first in the series, and applied eyes to page. Steadily. For four hours. I was 2/3 through with the book then, and *forced* myself to put it down because a) I had to walk the dog, b) I had to feed my 91-yr-old aunt, and c) I had to pee. Let's talk about mystery series for a minute. I like them, as readers of past reviews will yawningly recall, because they satisfy my need for order, for the world to work *right* for a change. I think a lot of people feel similarly to me. But a series, iteration upon iteration of similar plots/characters/motivations/dialogue...what makes a well-read consumer of Lit'rachure such as I, and so many fellow Goodreadsers, am/are seek these books out? Comfort? Yes, but... Ease? Yes, but... Quality. Some of the best storytelling going on in literature today happens in mysteries and thrillers. Yeup, you can love or loathe Grisham's writing, but you CANNOT fault, in any way, his eye for a story. You can fairly say it's not to your personal taste, but don't even TRY to say it's \"not good.\" Likewise James Patterson, Stephen King, Iris Johansen, et alii. There is a reason these folks are bestsellers, and it is NOT that the People got no taste. It's that these are storytellers, entertainers, creators of worlds we-the-people want to inhabit if only for a moment. As was Homer, may I remind the snobs. No one thought much about Homer's stuff, except that it was rollicking good fun. Nobody even bothered to write it down for a few centuries *after* writing was invented. Somewhere on the Times bestseller list is the work of the Homer our culture will be remembered for, and it's not likely to be Faulkner. (Horrible thought: What if it's HEMINGWAY?!?) Louise Penny's Three Pines is a place I want to go and stay, eating Gabri's bounteous cooking and flirting with Olivier and lusting from afar at unattainable Peter and gossiping unkindly with Ruth...then settling in for a long, quiet snifter with Gamache and Beauvoir and Clara, to think it all through and come to a reasoned conclusion about life. I am there with these people, these words-on-page creations that have the life only a deep well of talent can water into existence. I believe them. I think you will, too. I offer this moment from very near the end of the book, when Clara realizes who murdered her very best friend: Clara stared at her reflection in the window of {the victim}'s kitchen. A ghostly,frightened woman looked back. Her theory made sense. Ignore it, the voice inside said. It's not your business. Let the police do their work. For God's sake, don't say anything. It was a seductive voice, one that promised peace and calm and the continuation of her beautiful life in Three Pines. To act on what she knew would destroy that life. What if you're wrong? cooed the voice. You'll hurt a lot of people...But Clara knew the voice lied. Had always lied to her. Clara would know and that knowing would eventually destroy her life anyway. If that doesn't make you sprint out to get this book, nothing else I can say will. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Rating: 2.5* of five The Filmmaker Says : When a beloved schoolteacher is found dead, the possibility of murder leaves the quaint town of Three Pines aghast in this crime drama based on the award-winning novel by Louise Penny. The Film at Acorn.tv The Film Review : Well now. I don't know what cause Louise Penny to distance herself from the film made of her first novel, and so far as I am aware, she hasn't been public about the cause of her breach with the filmmakers. The only actor I recognized in the cast was Gamache, played by Nathaniel Parker. I had a dizzy moment or two when I first saw <---C>Peter Morrow</---C>, playd by one Gabriel Hogan . I was sure as sure could be that it was Henry Rollins with a bad dye-job and after a facelift. Then I wondered if permaybehaps Mr. Hogan was, errrmmm, a product of Rollins' rock-star years...no, born in 1973...so no go.... And do you now see the problem? I was able to trace these arabesques and follow these fancies because I was so very not wrapped up in the film. Parker does a rather blah job as Gamache, the lady who plays Clara is nothing special, we don't so much as hear BOO from Myrna, Gabri and Olivier appear to be acquaintances with a formal past. And then there are the police: Lacoste looks just right and isn't terribly busy onscreen, Jean-Guy is edgeless, but then there's Agent Nicol. She's perfectly cast for attitude, is Susanna Fournier . Manages to be just like Nicol in the book. Whatever the alchemy is that makes a film adaptation great is missing from this one. It's pretty to look at. The actors aren't bloody awful in the roles. The screenplay has the events in order. And at the end of the 88 minutes, I was utterly uninterested in seeing more. Bad, bad sign. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more NO SPOILERS. Her debut, entertaining, well written and deserving of its literary awards. A traditional detective novel, the murder unraveled by careful observation - felt like a breath of fresh air after my normal diet of forensics mysteries. A murder disrupts the peace in Quebec\u2019s heartland where \"The only reason doors were locked was to prevent neighbors from dropping off baskets of zucchini at harvest time\" . A rural setting, quiet pace and lack of gore has some pegging this as a cozy mystery, NO SPOILERS. Her debut, entertaining, well written and deserving of its literary awards. A traditional detective novel, the murder unraveled by careful observation - felt like a breath of fresh air after my normal diet of forensics mysteries. A murder disrupts the peace in Quebec\u2019s heartland where \"The only reason doors were locked was to prevent neighbors from dropping off baskets of zucchini at harvest time\" . A rural setting, quiet pace and lack of gore has some pegging this as a cozy mystery, disagree. On the surface seems just a pleasant story placed in a picturesque artsy community but there's depth. Undercurrents of homophobia, the tension between Anglo & Francophone\u2019s. Atmospheric without being gloomy, nice change from the Canadian novels I\u2019ve read lately. Fascinating characters, Chief Inspector Armand Gamache a standout. What? A detective who\u2019s respectful and loves his wife, brilliant without a drop of arrogance \u2013 appealingly flawed, if anything overly compassionate? Refreshing... \"He always felt a pang when looking at the hands of the newly dead, imagining all the objects and people those hands had held. The food, the faces, the doorknobs. \" Tension provided courtesy of a smug young rookie agent, Yvette Nichol. As her mentor Gamache tries to stem her arrogance by teaching her humility, the power of \"I\u2019m sorry, I don\u2019t know, I need help, I was wrong.\" Plan on reading the next in the series just to see if she smartens up. Loved the role the painting \u2018Fair Day\u2019 plays in the mystery. Didn\u2019t figure out the murderer but that\u2019s no surprise, I rarely do. For it\u2019s genre a solid 4.5 stars. And in case you\u2019re wondering if places like this actually exist - the answer is yes:) Cons: Way too many characters and while the majority are well fleshed out a few are ridiculously exaggerated. No one is as superficial as Yolande Fontaine, as smug as Agent Yvette Nichol \u2013 couldn\u2019t take either of them seriously. \u201cA fire had been laid and lit, outside the storm moaned and called the leaves from the trees.\u201d ...more Sometimes a memorable read needs to be revisited for a multitude of reasons. Louise Penny lost her husband Michael this year. Her loss was so apparent in her latest offering, The Great Reckoning. As I turned the initial pages of this first book in the series, Still Life, I came upon the Acknowledgements that almost made me weep: \"This is for my husband Michael, who has created a life for us full of love and kindness. He allowed me to quit my job, pretend to write, then gave me unstinting praise ev Sometimes a memorable read needs to be revisited for a multitude of reasons. Louise Penny lost her husband Michael this year. Her loss was so apparent in her latest offering, The Great Reckoning. As I turned the initial pages of this first book in the series, Still Life, I came upon the Acknowledgements that almost made me weep: \"This is for my husband Michael, who has created a life for us full of love and kindness. He allowed me to quit my job, pretend to write, then gave me unstinting praise even when what I produced was drivel. I've realised that anyone can be a critic but it takes a remarkable person to offer praise. Michael is that person.\" So you see, more than just words have gone on every page by Louise Penny. Far, far more. Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the Surete du Quebec is introduced to us in Still Life as well as the tiny village of Three Pines. When an elderly former teacher has been found dead along a woodsy path, shock reverberates throughout the village. Was this a careless hunting accident or was there something more sinister going on? If so, who could ever have wanted the kindly Jane Neal dead? As you enter into an Armand Gamache book, you will pull back on the reins and slow the pace. Your eyes adjust to finite observations and attention to detail. Gamache's eyes sweep over every gesture, every careless article, and every door ajar. He tunes into every bit of dialogue with the words: \"Tell me about it.\" And each storyline of every book in the series will sharpen your own sensitivities and your own sharpened skills. The truth is hard-hitting in Three Pines. One of their own is responsible in some way for Jane's death. Houses left unlocked at night soon become fortresses. Fear permeates like heavy smoke. Gamache brings along his trusted inspectors. They will soon discover that Three Pines will give up, unwillingly, multi-layered secrets. You will also meet the main characters who weave their way throughout the series.......the heart and the core of Louise Penny's offerings. Still Life begins the journey and is a must read to set the stage. The following books will grow in intensity, subject matter, character development, and heavy-duty crime. The Inspector Gamache Series is certainly not fluff as you will discover. It will expose you to the dastardly deeds at the hands of the respected and the not-so-respected of humanity. Ask any die-hard fan of Louise Penny and they will broadly smile at the mere mention of her name. ...more I am a little sad that I can't give Still Life more than 2 stars. It was recommended to me and it's not a pleasant task to trash someone's suggestion, but what can I do, this book was just a barely OK read for me. Still Life is a traditional (\"cozy\") mystery set in a Canadian village Three Pines. One Sunday morning a body of 76-year old Jane Neal - a long-time resident of the village - is found. At first, it appears that Jane was killed in a hunting accident, but later we find out that quite a fe I am a little sad that I can't give Still Life more than 2 stars. It was recommended to me and it's not a pleasant task to trash someone's suggestion, but what can I do, this book was just a barely OK read for me. Still Life is a traditional (\"cozy\") mystery set in a Canadian village Three Pines. One Sunday morning a body of 76-year old Jane Neal - a long-time resident of the village - is found. At first, it appears that Jane was killed in a hunting accident, but later we find out that quite a few seemingly ordinary and upstanding villagers have some secrets to hide and maybe reasons to murder the old lady. On a positive side, I enjoyed learning a little about Quebec. I personally never knew that there was a tension between Quebec and the rest of Canada and also a lot of friction between francophones and anglophones. Archery/hunting details were interesting as well. And, the most exciting thing, I could practice my newly acquired basic French skills - I even knew what boulangerie was! As for the rest, the book didn't live up to my expectations. Poor characterization simply killed the story for me. The characters were drawn in a strange way and their back stories were introduced awkwardly. I couldn't understand their motivations and actions. Too often they acted immaturely (Yvette Nichol) or weirdly hysterical (Clara Morrow, Yolande). Dialog was very stilted at times too, often I had no idea what people were talking about and why they found certain things funny. I suppose I should have cut Louise Penny some slack, it was her first novel after all. But the book was rather poorly written even for the first effort. I am surprised Still Life managed to receive so much critical recognition and mainly positive Goodreads ratings. Did the mystery standards go down since Agatha Christie's death? I guess the success of this book is the biggest mystery to me... ...more 4.5 stars With the encouragement of several of my Goodreads friends, I finally decided to pick up Still Life, a novel I bought 3 years ago. I don\u2019t know why I waited so long to dust it off, especially since it has won multiple awards, but I can tell you it won\u2019t take 3 years for me to read book 2 of what I believe will be a highly enjoyable series. Some readers called this a cozy. I respectfully disagree; I think this story is more in the category of literary mystery. There is so much depth. The s 4.5 stars With the encouragement of several of my Goodreads friends, I finally decided to pick up Still Life, a novel I bought 3 years ago. I don\u2019t know why I waited so long to dust it off, especially since it has won multiple awards, but I can tell you it won\u2019t take 3 years for me to read book 2 of what I believe will be a highly enjoyable series. Some readers called this a cozy. I respectfully disagree; I think this story is more in the category of literary mystery. There is so much depth. The setting is a small village nestled somewhere in Quebec, not terribly far from Montreal. Three Pines is inhabited by a somewhat quirky group of people who have layers upon layers of interpersonal relationships. Having no local detective, the town calls in Chief Inspector Armand Gamache from Montreal when a woman is killed\u2014was it an accident or murder? I have fallen in love with this guy. He is not your usual law enforcement protagonist with demons seeping out of his pores. In fact, he seems very well adjusted and even has a wonderful relationship with his wife (we just get a peek at the latter and I am hoping to see more of Armand\u2019s and his spouse\u2019s marital relationship in future books). Armand is highly intelligent, extremely perceptive, kind and gentle, yet firm and no nonsense when called for. His integrity is impeccable. I also became quite fond of his right hand man, Jean Guy Beauvoir. Overall, characterization is excellent, but not quite strong enough to pull me hook line and sinker into the lives of the villagers, perhaps only because of the sheer number of players. I do feel that Ms. Penny\u2019s writing is such that this will come with later installments as we get to know the townfolk better. The plot is engaging and had me changing my mind right and left regarding whom the baddie was. I never did get it right. I did have to suspend belief just a bit regarding the intricacies of the crime, but this didn\u2019t lessen my enjoyment of the journey. I enjoyed this novel more than my usual 4-star reads, but I have a feeling Ms. Perry is going to get better and better. Thus, the round down from 4.5 to 4 stars. Will I continue with the series? Absolutely. Do I recommend Still Life? I sure do\u2014to all readers of crime fiction interested in something a little different and with emphasis on characterization. ...more This was a pleasure to read. Imagine a detective who is happily married and is not an alcoholic! Discovering Chief Inspector Armand Gamache is a pleasure in itself! I really enjoyed the setting, a small town in Quebec, and I became quite attached to several of the characters. They were quirky and a couple verged on going over the top but overall the author held it together. An easy, comfortable read with just a bit of bite to it to keep it interesting. Consider me hooked on the series:) This is a murder mystery in the category of police procedural. I like to throw in a few of these every once in a while for variety. After all, one does not wish to consider oneself effete for having dined on too rich a diet of purely literary fare, does one? Now that we're in the star bestowal business I thought for a minute about what makes for a good book of this sort. Here\u2019s the list I came up with along with how Still Life did with respect to it. \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Interesting characters \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Plausible fo This is a murder mystery in the category of police procedural. I like to throw in a few of these every once in a while for variety. After all, one does not wish to consider oneself effete for having dined on too rich a diet of purely literary fare, does one? Now that we're in the star bestowal business I thought for a minute about what makes for a good book of this sort. Here\u2019s the list I came up with along with how Still Life did with respect to it. \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Interesting characters \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Plausible forensics \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Sensible structure to the story \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Skill in the uncovering of clues \u2713 \u00a0 \u00a0 Details of the setting for added flavor x \u00a0 \u00a0 Success in avoiding an annoying, witless junior officer who thinks she knows way more than she really does and is terrible at reading people So with the exception of the last criterion, this one does well. Chief Inspector Armand Gamache qualifies as interesting in that wise and avuncular way that inspires confidence. It\u2019s set in Quebec in a French and English speaking town south of Montreal. The local flavor was delicieux . As far as the forensics are concerned, there were some bits involving bowhunting that were out of the ordinary. This was Penny\u2019s first book, but she seemed very polished in the way she set the stage and kept us guessing. As you\u2019ve no doubt already gathered from my list, I did have a problem with one of the characters on the investigative team. She seemed almost willfully obtuse. If the goal was to create conflict to foil the naturally unflappable Inspector Gamache, there had to have been more satisfying ways to do it than through her. Even so, the book has enough charm, intrigue and local color to recommend. 3.5 stars rounded up to 4. ...more In all the years Jean Guy Beauvior had worked with Gamache, through all the murders and mayhem, it never ceased to thrill him, hearing that simple sentence. \"Tell me what you know.\" It signaled the beginning of the hunt. He was the alpha dog. And Chief Inspector Gamache was Master of the Hunt. October -Canadian Thanksgiving weekend- Three Pines, Quebec Victim : Jane Neal, 76 years old, retired school teacher, never married- found dead in the woods not far from her home- cause of death -shot with a In all the years Jean Guy Beauvior had worked with Gamache, through all the murders and mayhem, it never ceased to thrill him, hearing that simple sentence. \"Tell me what you know.\" It signaled the beginning of the hunt. He was the alpha dog. And Chief Inspector Gamache was Master of the Hunt. October -Canadian Thanksgiving weekend- Three Pines, Quebec Victim : Jane Neal, 76 years old, retired school teacher, never married- found dead in the woods not far from her home- cause of death -shot with an arrow...possible hunting accident. [image error] Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec and his team are called to the normally peaceful village of Three Pines- to investigate the death of Jane Neal. The locals are positive it was an accident- everyone loved Jane, and no one in Three Pines is capable of murder...or are they? Louise Penny's debut, STILL LIFE is the first novel in the Inspector Gamache series- and what a wonderful start it is! It was an ideal book for me to have read coming into holiday season- since it begins during the Thanksgiving weekend and the next in the series \"A Fatal Grace\" starts during the Christmas holidays. Not as light as a cozy...but not too dark either. Beautiful setting, great characters, and an enjoyable mystery. So put down the snow shovel, get on those flannel P.J.s, grab a warm beverage, cuddle up by the fire...and let STILL LIFE entertain you for an evening or two. ...more Sign me up.....I'm in, and it looks like the ratings only get better for this popular series going forward! Jane Neal is found dead in the woods, and Chief Inspector Armand Gamache leads his troops to the picturesque village of Three Pines to uncover secrets and find a killer. This fun to read crime-mystery has many great characters that I can't wait to get to know better.....Oliver and his partner Gabri are a hoot and newbie smart-mouth Agent Nichol, well, she is something else, and then there's Sign me up.....I'm in, and it looks like the ratings only get better for this popular series going forward! Jane Neal is found dead in the woods, and Chief Inspector Armand Gamache leads his troops to the picturesque village of Three Pines to uncover secrets and find a killer. This fun to read crime-mystery has many great characters that I can't wait to get to know better.....Oliver and his partner Gabri are a hoot and newbie smart-mouth Agent Nichol, well, she is something else, and then there's Inspector Gamache's final comment (I'm not telling) that draws you to book two! One down :-) and Ten to Go :-( \"Who Knows What Evil Lurks in the Hearts of Men\" ...more Still Life My discovery of the charming, picturesque Canadian fictional village of Three Pines comes a few years too late, but I am glad I finally decided to pay a visit. Before reading Still Life I only had a casual idea of what a \"cozy murder mystery\" was. Once you read this novel however, you can see how that moniker perfectly describes this novel and Mrs. Penny's writing style. The title, Still Life , also describes the idyllic, low-key lifestyle the residents of Three Pines have been accustome Still Life My discovery of the charming, picturesque Canadian fictional village of Three Pines comes a few years too late, but I am glad I finally decided to pay a visit. Before reading Still Life I only had a casual idea of what a \"cozy murder mystery\" was. Once you read this novel however, you can see how that moniker perfectly describes this novel and Mrs. Penny's writing style. The title, Still Life , also describes the idyllic, low-key lifestyle the residents of Three Pines have been accustomed to. Unfortunately for them their way of life comes to a screeching halt when one of their most beloved citizens is found dead under suspicious circumstances. The victim is Jane Neal, a middle-age retired school teacher. Her body is found in the woods near the village. At the beginning it appears that she was the victim of an unfortunate hunting accident but nobody knows for sure. As a slow pace investigation unravels, we are introduced to Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec. In his mid-50's, the Chief Inspector of Homicide has a reputation for being a smart, honest investigator. With one glaring exception, he brings with him a group of experienced detectives who are determined to find out what really happened to Jane. We also get to know a long colorful cast of townsfolk, including Clara and Peter Morrow, both of whom are local artists; Olivier and Gabri are gay partners who own and run a bistro and a bed and breakfast, Myrna Landers is a former psychologist who makes a living selling used books and Ben Hadley, who has been Peter Morrow's close friend for years. I found the paced of the story and the mystery behind it, engaging and entertaining. But mostly what kept my interest was learning about the the idiosyncrasies of the region and the bi-cultural aspect of life in Qu\u00e9bec. The quirky references to the differences between French and English culture made for some funny, light-hearted moments. So question for my Goodreads friends, since there are so many books already published on this series, is it necessary to read them in order, or is it okay to skip a few? I would appreciate any recommendations about what book to read next. Finally I should say that it is a breath of fresh air to get to know a character of so much integrity and as straightforward as Inspector Gamache. Overall this was a very entertaining read, I look forward to visiting him and the Three Pines village in the near future. ...more Martha Stewart meets Agatha Christie on a very bad hair day. I was recommended this author by a friend who is a great admirer of Ian Rankin and Stieg Larsson, so I was quite excited as I set out. Excitement soon turned to disappointment, followed by a sense of disbelief that writing so bad could be so well received by the reading public. And indeed win a prize, albeit one for novice crime writers. The setting is an idyllic village near Montreal, populated with a cast of caricatures - aging bohemi Martha Stewart meets Agatha Christie on a very bad hair day. I was recommended this author by a friend who is a great admirer of Ian Rankin and Stieg Larsson, so I was quite excited as I set out. Excitement soon turned to disappointment, followed by a sense of disbelief that writing so bad could be so well received by the reading public. And indeed win a prize, albeit one for novice crime writers. The setting is an idyllic village near Montreal, populated with a cast of caricatures - aging bohemian artists, a famous but misanthropic poet, a retired black psychologist, a gay couple who run, guess what, the bistro and bed and breakfast. I could continue. The hero inspector is an intelligent, intuitive and caring man who spends what little free time he has helping his wife stuff partridges with wild rice in the kitchen of his trendy Montreal apartment. His second-in-command is almost indistinguishable from him. By way of contrast we have some rough poor people, and a handful of one dimensional, over the top, emotionally challenged characters. All the nice people run around eating fragrant, freshly baked rolls stuffed with warm brie and black forest ham, while dabbling in solving the murder which has only ever so slightly ruffled the peace and tranquility of their lives. There is an abundance of golden leaves and drifting woodsmoke. The plot is disjointed, the pace is tediously slow, the characters are drawn with strokes so thick you can't make them out, the writing is seldom good and sometimes painfully bad. According to the cover, there was actually an editor. This is a book with very few redeeming features, other than the occasional telling description and flash of humour. Whodunnit? I really didn't care enough to find out. ...more I finally get the chance to read this series, I've heard nothing but good things about this series. I should have read this a lot sooner than I did. This 1St book in the series was just fabulous. This mystery takes place in Quebec, Canada in a small village called Three Pines. The author describes this place so well that I actually felt that I was there visiting with these odd characters. Three Pines is the place to be! This book is very well written and has won many awards. The mystery starts I finally get the chance to read this series, I've heard nothing but good things about this series. I should have read this a lot sooner than I did. This 1St book in the series was just fabulous. This mystery takes place in Quebec, Canada in a small village called Three Pines. The author describes this place so well that I actually felt that I was there visiting with these odd characters. Three Pines is the place to be! This book is very well written and has won many awards. The mystery starts out with Jane, who was 76 years old and was a school teacher and she was found dead in the woods of Three Pines. She had lived there for 25 years. She was very will liked. Detective. Gamache and his team come to investigate, and find out that she died of a bow and arrow wound. Was this a tragic accident or was she murdered? If she was so loved why was she murdered and who would of done it? I could go on and on about the characters, but there are so many it could take awhile. Gamache and his team are left with so many clues and so many secrets and lies! Jane would have so many visitors but they were not allowed in her living room. Why? Also when she decides to show her painting called Fair Days, and has a party to celebrate she dies the next day. Does the painting have anything to do with why Jane died. Follow Gamache and his team and get to know these odd characters to find out how Jane died. This book was sooo good....I loved every minute of it There's no way to described this book to give it the justice that it deserves. There is so much beauty. in it you really need to read it and I think it will be one of your favorite series. It sure was mine. This book is definitely a must read. It is a page Turner and I have so much passion for this book. ...more This is Louise Penny 's debut novel and the first in the Inspector Armand Gamache series. This was a terrific read and in some ways reminds me of Agatha Christie . The characters are well developed and likable ... well not the murderer. The locale is Three Pines, a small rural village south of Montreal and the author description makes it a come alive and a place you would like to live in or at least visit. Jane Neal, 76 years old and a retired school teacher, is found dead in the woods over the Can This is Louise Penny 's debut novel and the first in the Inspector Armand Gamache series. This was a terrific read and in some ways reminds me of Agatha Christie . The characters are well developed and likable ... well not the murderer. The locale is Three Pines, a small rural village south of Montreal and the author description makes it a come alive and a place you would like to live in or at least visit. Jane Neal, 76 years old and a retired school teacher, is found dead in the woods over the Canadian Thanksgiving weekend. She had been shot with an arrow. Surely the victim of a hunting accident. Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Qu\u00e9bec and his team are called to investigate the death. Over the course of the investigation we get to meet the residents of this normally quiet little village. Olivier and Gabri; a gay couple who run a bistro and a bed and breakfast, Myrna Landers; a former psychologist who now owns a bookshop, Ruth Zardo; an eccentric poet, Clara Morrow; artist and friend of Jane's, Clara's husband Peter; also an artist. These are just a handful of the wonderful residents of Three Pines. People you wouldn't mind sitting down with at the bistro and enjoying a meal or just a cup of coffee. But not everyone is who they appear to be and the village is not as idyllic as it may outwardly appear. Early in the book Olivier and Gabri are victims of a vicious assault by three boys who mock the pair's sexual orientation. A family is in turmoil. Their 14 year old son is suspected of being one of the boys involved in the assault. He had been a happy boy and a good student. Now he is sullen and rebellious. Could it be because of drugs? And of course the death of Jane Neal was not a hunting accident. She was murdered. Why? What harm could a 76 year old retired school teacher be to anyone? Everyone loved her and had nothing but kind things to say. Inspector Gamache is very patient man. He will meet the residents of Three Pines and get to know them. He and his team will learn who is behind the murder of Jane Neal. Definitely recommend reading this book. Happy to have found another outstanding series and am looking forward to reading A Fatal Grace . ...more I started reading A Fatal Grace and soon realised that I would be better to go back to the beginning with Louise Penny's first book set in the magical Quebecois village of Three Pines. I'm loving it so far and I'm only up to page 12. A sample: \"In the twenty-five years she'd lived in Three Pines she'd never, ever heard of a crime. The only reason doors were locked was to prevent neighbours from dropping off baskets of zucchini at harvest time.\" I love the characters so much I want to go to Three I started reading A Fatal Grace and soon realised that I would be better to go back to the beginning with Louise Penny's first book set in the magical Quebecois village of Three Pines. I'm loving it so far and I'm only up to page 12. A sample: \"In the twenty-five years she'd lived in Three Pines she'd never, ever heard of a crime. The only reason doors were locked was to prevent neighbours from dropping off baskets of zucchini at harvest time.\" I love the characters so much I want to go to Three Pines right now and share a drink and a chat in the bistro - but reading the books is the next best thing. Update some days later: I just had to finish this book so it took priority over washing, shopping and other Saturday chores. My 'home' (Louise Penny never describes a person's dwelling place as a 'house') is still in a mess but I'm now happily back to A Fatal Grace and meeting some new characters. Thankfully in this book the victim deserves her end, unlike the unfortunate Jane in the first book. ...more \u201c\u2018I think many people love their problems. Gives them all sorts of excuses for not growing up and getting on with life.\u2019 Myrna leaned back again in her chair and took a long breath. \u2018Life is change. If you aren\u2019t growing and evolving you\u2019re standing still, and the rest of the world is surging ahead. Most of these people are very immature. They lead \u201cstill\u201d lives, waiting.\u201d Still Life is the first book in Louise Penny\u2019s Chief Inspector Gamache Novels, maybe she came on strong in later books but \u201c\u2018I think many people love their problems. Gives them all sorts of excuses for not growing up and getting on with life.\u2019 Myrna leaned back again in her chair and took a long breath. \u2018Life is change. If you aren\u2019t growing and evolving you\u2019re standing still, and the rest of the world is surging ahead. Most of these people are very immature. They lead \u201cstill\u201d lives, waiting.\u201d Still Life is the first book in Louise Penny\u2019s Chief Inspector Gamache Novels, maybe she came on strong in later books but I didn\u2019t like this one. My problems with the book: Shallow stereotyped characters - The characters are moved around like chess pieces. I was astonished by the broad-strokes stereotyping going on in this book. Complicated characters are the ones that stick with us the longest but Louise Penny doesn\u2019t have the skills to draw living characters we can recognize. She doesn\u2019t know how to give each character something memorable. The main character - Chief Inspector Armand Gamache - we learn very little about him, I would have liked more insight into how his mind works, because it seems like his method of work is to do nothing in particular, except for being very nice to most people. And I wanted to know more about his work, because the author wants us to believe inspector Gamache is highly intelligent, maybe even brilliant, but he does not show any of these qualities. There is not a single moment in the book when he would come up with any briliant idea. (view spoiler) [And in fact, it was Clara who solve the case, not the intelligent insector. (hide spoiler) ] I don\u2019t think Yvette Nichol (she is the daughter of Czech immigrants to Canada) adds anything to the book. She seems to have been created for humor that isn't funny. Every time she appears we are reminded that she is an idiot. I don\u2019t know if she is also in the next books, but if she is, I hope there is some character development. I didn\u2019t find the other characters to be very interesting people as well , they all have limited depth. Clara Morrow, Jane Neal\u2019s best friend, was particularly non-believable. Olivier Brul\u00e9 and Gabri Dubeau, the two gay men who own a bistro, could they be any more caricaturish? Myrna Landers seems to have been created to show how tolerant people in Three Pines are because every time she appears we are reminded that she is black. The writing - I found the writing awkward and disjointed, particularly because so much of the writing is dialogue and Louise Penny doesn't do it well, in my opinion. That's not how people talk to each other. The plot The story is so contrived - (view spoiler) [a village in which everyone is sweet and nice but only the bad guy is faking it. Too predictible. Not the mention that I think the fourteen-year-old Philippe Croft (one of the boys Jane caught attacking Olivier and Gabri) anxiety was completely not believable. He shoots an arrow and becomes distressed that his arrow killed someone, but later we discover his arrow landed high in a tree instead. Now, even if you are a very bad archer, you would notice whether your arrow went a short distance from you to the level of a person walking on the ground, instead of up 20 feet in the air. But when it comes to the story, what bothered me the most was how the investigation into the murder was done. The way it was handled would never be allowed, at least in my opinion. They simply allowed someone to move into the victims house before the police could see it? And then everyone was allowed to trample around wherever the police were doing the investigation? It doesn\u2019t make sense to me. (hide spoiler) ] All in all , an ordinary whodunit. Unbelievable characters, dialogue, and solution because the conclusion just doesn't make any sense and doesn't hit you in the gut. ...more Clara \"laughed until she thought she would piddle,\" and I want to piddle on this book. No to the word \"piddle\"; no to twee gay couples who sing along to \"It's Raining Men\"; no to \"violent death demanded Earl Grey\"; no to murderers who are both telegraphed and chosen out of a hat; no to this smug, precious, suffocatingly cozy mystery. Still Life is an absolutely delightful read. Louise Penny weaves a complex plot with sure hands, repeatedly provides an interesting sense of place, and develops her characters deftly, patiently, one ingredient at a time. There is a very satisfying blend of action and reflection, and mostly intelligent detective work, set against a beautifully presented background of life in a small artists village in modern Quebec where everyone knows everyone else and one of them is a murderer. One of the inter Still Life is an absolutely delightful read. Louise Penny weaves a complex plot with sure hands, repeatedly provides an interesting sense of place, and develops her characters deftly, patiently, one ingredient at a time. There is a very satisfying blend of action and reflection, and mostly intelligent detective work, set against a beautifully presented background of life in a small artists village in modern Quebec where everyone knows everyone else and one of them is a murderer. One of the interesting characters is the female trainee, a total jerk. Will she reappear in future episodes? This was my first exposure to Penny's series (stimulated by a GR review) and now I am pleased to have the rest of them in front of me. ...more Jane Neal was an eccentric artist. Her mudroom was a museum, her kitchen a shrine. That was as far as anybody was allowed into her home. Even her most dearest friends never made it beyond the kitchen. The status quo would have lingered on forever, if it wasn't for Jane submitting, for the first time in her life, one of her paintings, ' Fair Day' , to the Annual Williamsburg Arts Exhibition. It was the only piece of herself that she finally wanted to share with the world. Some judges were horrifie Jane Neal was an eccentric artist. Her mudroom was a museum, her kitchen a shrine. That was as far as anybody was allowed into her home. Even her most dearest friends never made it beyond the kitchen. The status quo would have lingered on forever, if it wasn't for Jane submitting, for the first time in her life, one of her paintings, ' Fair Day' , to the Annual Williamsburg Arts Exhibition. It was the only piece of herself that she finally wanted to share with the world. Some judges were horrified, others were delighted. And somewhere in between someone probably got scared. \u2018For whatever reason, Fair Day challenges us. It moves us. To anger,\u2019 here Elise acknowledged Iren\u00e9e, \u2018to confusion,\u2019 a brief but meaningful look at Henri who nodded his grizzled head slightly, \u2018to \u2026\u2019 a glance at Peter and Clara. \u2018Joy,\u2019 said Peter at the very moment Clara said, \u2018Sorrow.\u2019 They looked at each other and laughed. \u2018Now, I look at it and feel, like Henri, simply confused. The truth is I don\u2019t know whether Fair Day is a brilliant example of naive art, or the pathetic scrawling of a superbly untalented, and delusional, old woman. That\u2019s the tension. And that\u2019s why it must be part of the show. I can guarantee you it\u2019s the one work people will be talking about in the cafes after the vernissage .\u2019 Ruth Zardo, a woman who were known to be scarier than a burning building, thought it was hideous. It was suddenly all too clear that Jane did not write a diary. No, she painted her life story, as well as those of the villagers, into canvasses nobody was allowed to ever see. Myrna was saying to Clara. \u2018Even the deaths, accidents, funerals, bad crops, even they have a kind of life. She (Jane) made them natural.\u2019 Although she was old, Jane was also gentle and kind. And fearless too. When a gay couple were harassed in the small town of Three Pines, south of Qu\u00e9bec, Jane not only confronted the three young boys, she also recognized them. The three young assailants fled. One of them, with the orange mask, left behind a laugh so foul it even eclipsed the duck manure they just finished throwing at Olivier and Gabri. However, before Jane Neal could enjoy the triumph of her first exhibition, she was dead. A hunting accident, the sleepy town believed. It would have been accepted as true, if Chief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Quebec\u2019, with his two assistants, Inspector Jean Guy Beauvoir and Agent Yvette Nichol, was not summoned to the scene. The town hall was packed when he announced his theory. A silence deader than Jane, ascended onto the gathering. 'Even the coughing stopped, miraculously cured by curiosity.' Comments : Like a good murder mystery, the plot is everything, allowing the dedicated reader of this genre to try and solve the mystery before the detective does. For us it is more than just a story. It is a game. We revel in the sleuths, the puzzle, and the resolution of the case at the end of the book. We simply demand those thrills as readers, yes! Still Life did not fall into the trap of getting bogged down in history or back flashes, or going off on a tangent. These elements were present in the book, but never inspired me to skip-read as with many other books in this genre. What better way of spending a winter's weekend, curled up in front of an old-fashioned fire , enveloped in warm blankets and cocooned in a nest of big fluffy soft cushions! In our quest for more murders, clues and suspicious persons, a first novel, such as Still Life honors the thrilling, joyful experience of classic authors such as Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler, Julien Barnes, Eric Ambler, Dorothy Slayers, Arthur Conan Doyle, and Agatha Christie to name but a few. As a first novel, it was perfect. The plot point was plausible, keeping the action moving, the murder was believable; the culprit was able to commit the crime; the researched was very well done; the ending was unpredictable enough. Of course the addition of unexpected twists to throw us off the scent, was applied, and the detectives themselves got tricked! The gentle, laid-back style worked for me. It was more than a murder mystery. It was a multi-layered tale of human relationships within a warm, close-knit community. Dignity and grace comes to mind. Sometimes we want to be strapped to a chair, gagged and scared to death! Sometimes we just want a good ole inspector Morse, or Hercule Poirot and the all-time famous Sherlock Holmes to entertain us. Nothing beats the combination of good detective work, scientific solutions and the use of plain common sense to grace our imaginations. This multiple-award winning book is one of those. I was mesmerized and thrilled to read it, and ultimately sad to close the book. I loved being part of the Three Pines community. I felt like leaving behind my own friends. And that, in my humble opinion, makes this book a winner in its own right! It is the first book in a series. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! ...more I don't want to annoy others who think Louise Penny writes great stuff. OK, she does - for the simple reason she has achieved a high star rating, but she is NOT for me. The ending is SO incredible - (view spoiler) [ Snakes,hoses / rat traps / umpteen people falling down steps with broken bones galore and one strong brave woman standing there triumphant.... (hide spoiler) ] I like credible, realistic stories. This is not. The ending was simply the last straw for me. I tried this book in an attempt I don't want to annoy others who think Louise Penny writes great stuff. OK, she does - for the simple reason she has achieved a high star rating, but she is NOT for me. The ending is SO incredible - (view spoiler) [ Snakes,hoses / rat traps / umpteen people falling down steps with broken bones galore and one strong brave woman standing there triumphant.... (hide spoiler) ] I like credible, realistic stories. This is not. The ending was simply the last straw for me. I tried this book in an attempt to enjoy a fun cozy mystery. It only confirmed that even a book touted as being rich in character portrayal STILL isn't going to work for me if it isn't credible! This is first and foremost a mystery. Lots of time is spent covering the details of who \"did it\" and why and how. The chance that the events in this book would happen is minimal. Not only is the ending incredible but also the motive for the crime is feeble. I have learned that I value credibility. Another aspect of this book that annoyed ME, was all the discussion of food. Lots of people love books where every other paragraph reverts to what is being eaten. I have learned to value other aspects of life than food. Why? Because I am a T1 diabetic and food just leads ME to trouble, I am the exception. Many adore books about eating and talking about delicious food. So again, a book for YOU, but NOT me. Go ahead, enjoy it. A fun cozy murder mystery filled with yummy food. Not everything has to be credible for most people......except me. Adam Sims narrated my audiobook. HE did nothing wrong whatsoever so go ahead and choose his narration if you think the book will be good for you! ETA: I am getting braver. Here are more complaints: There is simplistic philosophizing. You know that the criminal accused in the middle of the book will NOT be the right one. Nothing is done with the theme of the French versus English communities in Quebec. Popular themes of bullying and discrimination against gay people and women and Black rights - all covered but only superficially. It is set in a cozy fictive town in Quebec, but nothing is delved into with depth. Does cozy have to mean superficial? ...more This was a cozy type mystery set in a small town in Quebec. I did enjoy the overall story, but it took me a really long time to actually start enjoying the book and wanting to find out who killed Jane. I've read several reviews that say the books get better in the series as this was the author's first published work. I may give at least the next book a chance. On a side note, what was the point of Nichol? (view spoiler) [She started out really positive and turned into an egocentric witch by the en This was a cozy type mystery set in a small town in Quebec. I did enjoy the overall story, but it took me a really long time to actually start enjoying the book and wanting to find out who killed Jane. I've read several reviews that say the books get better in the series as this was the author's first published work. I may give at least the next book a chance. On a side note, what was the point of Nichol? (view spoiler) [She started out really positive and turned into an egocentric witch by the end. (hide spoiler) ] ...more How have I never heard of Louise Penny? Granted, my focus on books tend to lean to the darker side of genres, but I do enjoy a good mystery in pretty much everything I read. The only thing is the mystery aspect is usually an component of thriller, horror, sci-fi or fantasy genres I'll read. Not cozies. Real men don't read cozies. But is this a cozy, really? I just read an interview with Louise Penny and she bristles at the term. She says, how can the shock of a murder in a tiny village be defined a How have I never heard of Louise Penny? Granted, my focus on books tend to lean to the darker side of genres, but I do enjoy a good mystery in pretty much everything I read. The only thing is the mystery aspect is usually an component of thriller, horror, sci-fi or fantasy genres I'll read. Not cozies. Real men don't read cozies. But is this a cozy, really? I just read an interview with Louise Penny and she bristles at the term. She says, how can the shock of a murder in a tiny village be defined as cozy? But back to my opening statement. How come it took an American podcast (What Should I Read Next) to get this author on my radar? Well, I'll answer that. Because she's Canadian, and I'm Canadian, mostly exposed to Canadian media, and frankly we don't promote our own very well. Meanwhile, everyone else in the world can't wait for each August when she releases her next Inspector Gamache novel. Now, I will admit to vaguely remembering this cover when it was released. I had seen a favorable review for it but it didn't stick for me, and soon it was forgotten. So what...twelve years later I hear this podcast talking about this series and how marvelous it is, how the debut was great but it actually takes four books for it to really hit its stride. This sparked my interest. One of my go-to sites is Publishers Weekly. It's pretty much a can't miss if a book has a starred review. So I start looking at all the books in the series. I think ALL BUT ONE had starred reviews. Holy crap (where have I been through all this??). So, Still Life. I loved it. Just loved it. I probably had a grin on my face most times I was reading it, and when I wasn't, I couldn't stop thinking about it. Who did it? Why? Or just thinking about all these unique characters in a tiny English Quebec village. When the resolution was finally made, it was somewhat satisfying, but what really did it for me was simply being into this novel. I was totally immersed in this village, and Penny is a wonderful writer. There is just enough Canadiana to make me smile, without hitting me over the head with it. There are some poignant philosophical and psychological timbits err TIDbits ;) that were excellent, and, heck, Louise Penny is just a wonderful writer (oh, I said that already). For the story alone I would give this 4.5 stars. But for the enthusiasm and excitement she has given me for the rest of the series I can't help but give it 5 stars. I'd love to binge out on it but the last thing I want to happen is me getting tired of the series. I think I'm on to something really special here so the order of the day is to step away and keep coming back to it. It took me an hour and a half last night to decide what to read next. I know it will suffer the pull back to Three Pines, so I ended up picking something relatively short. I will be back to Book 2 in this series as soon as I finish that one! (Already into it, and yes, I am pining for Three Pines already.) Still Life was exactly what I needed at the time. A mystery without all the tropes of a sicko psycho killer, a damaged detective, a chase scene, a gunfight, the inevitable twist for the sake of a twist. How refreshing this was. A story that doesn't rely on today's cliches. I can't wait to get back to this series. ...more I have quite mixed feelings about this one. It was enthusiastically recommended on Twitter by a couple of authors I do like, but from the very first page it felt clumsily written to me. A little overwritten \u2014 \u201cChief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Quebec knelt down; his knees cracking like the report of a hunter\u2019s rifle, his large, expressive hands hovering over the tiny circle of blood marring her fluffy cardigan, as though like a magician he could remove the wound and restore the wom I have quite mixed feelings about this one. It was enthusiastically recommended on Twitter by a couple of authors I do like, but from the very first page it felt clumsily written to me. A little overwritten \u2014 \u201cChief Inspector Armand Gamache of the S\u00fbret\u00e9 du Quebec knelt down; his knees cracking like the report of a hunter\u2019s rifle, his large, expressive hands hovering over the tiny circle of blood marring her fluffy cardigan, as though like a magician he could remove the wound and restore the woman.\u201d It just reads all wrong to me, and put me off right there \u2014 and that\u2019s in the second paragraph. The same sort of style continues throughout, and extends to the characters as well \u2014 if there are two more florid and clich\u00e9d gay men in all of fiction, I\u2019d almost be surprised, and it\u2019s not as though that gives them life. It\u2019s like a world of cardboard cut-outs, springing up to attention when the reader looks, but flattening down the rest of the time. Some of them were even ridiculous, like the young detective Yvette Nichol: she doesn\u2019t seem capable, trained, adult \u2014 she seems like a child having a sulk, most of the time. This is meant to be a \u2018cosy\u2019 mystery, apparently; though it doesn\u2019t really feel like it, with the intrusion of the police into a small rural community, with an old woman killed by someone in that community\u2026 Normally in a cosy mystery, I guess I expect there to be a different sort of crime. Someone we sympathise with less, maybe even someone who we feel deserves it. The disruption of a small tight-knit community like this one is supposed to be is pretty much the antithesis of cosy, to me. The one thing I did really like about this was the domestic partnerships. Gamache is far from the stereotyped lonely detective with a drinking problem, with a wife and a harmonious home to return to. Other characters in the book are married as well, and these relationships are presented as natural, symbiotic, fulfilling. Those were the moments where Penny shone, for me, because for that moment her characters did show a spark of life. Ultimately, though, I found this really disappointing and just skimmed it. It\u2019s cosy in the sense that it\u2019s not gritty Ian Rankin/Val McDermid style crime, full of sexual abuse and the like. It seems to try and be more in the genre of Mary Stewart or Alan Bradley \u2014 the only writers I\u2019d forgive that ending with the snakes \u2014 and, well, fails. I\u2019m sure there\u2019s an audience for it, but it ain\u2019t me. ...more I never read mysteries, but a friend suggested Louise Penny's \"Beautiful Mystery,\" and after reading it I wanted to read \"Still Life,\" the book that began Armand Gamache's story. I can't say with authority that Penny's mysteries are different from other mysteries, but I can say that these books are very different from the way I thought mysteries were. The characters are complicated and human. They think deeply about their lives and they try to do the right thing. Even minor characters in this bo I never read mysteries, but a friend suggested Louise Penny's \"Beautiful Mystery,\" and after reading it I wanted to read \"Still Life,\" the book that began Armand Gamache's story. I can't say with authority that Penny's mysteries are different from other mysteries, but I can say that these books are very different from the way I thought mysteries were. The characters are complicated and human. They think deeply about their lives and they try to do the right thing. Even minor characters in this book are lovingly crafted into real people, people I care about. Take, for instance, the character of Nichole, so new and young and eager to impress, feeling so deeply all of her own flaws and blunders, and yet impressing everyone else as shallow and smug. I love the way Louise Penny never resolves this tension between Nichole's inner life and her outward impression. Instead of neatly sewing up Nichole's story, Penny allows the misunderstandings to accumulate into a minor tragedy of their own. Nothing about the book feels formulaic. Indeed the book is almost willfully peculiar, rife with details about a village and the people who have lived there together for generations and the way their identities clash and/or sing together. The details of these lives are never less than fascinating. Both the crime and the way it is solved is bizarre and fantastic and theatrical and I loved that about it and never stopped to think, hmm, this could never happen...in this way Penny's novel resembles a stage play, with nearly the immediacy of live performance. ...more Part of good writing is the author's clever and fun understanding of the human condition. Louise Penny is a master at at this, revealing touching qualities of love and sacrifice of some and the negative traits of the greedy, the liars, the selfish and then the underlying traits causing one person to murder another. Armand Gamache is a methodical, experienced, brilliant detective who comes to town to solve the latest death, perhaps a hunting accident, but maybe a murder. Along with his team, he s Part of good writing is the author's clever and fun understanding of the human condition. Louise Penny is a master at at this, revealing touching qualities of love and sacrifice of some and the negative traits of the greedy, the liars, the selfish and then the underlying traits causing one person to murder another. Armand Gamache is a methodical, experienced, brilliant detective who comes to town to solve the latest death, perhaps a hunting accident, but maybe a murder. Along with his team, he starts to peel back each layer of the onion, looking at this and that, interviewing, hypothesizing with his team, cringing as one rookie investigator lies a little here, clumsily asks embarrassing questions there, etc. By the end of the book I felt I had become part of a close little community of mostly good people. People who help each other, laugh together, eat together, celebrate together and have a good life. A cozy well done nicely put together mystery novel. ...more 3.75 stars - Quite a few reviewers have described this book (and other books by Louise Penny) as a \"cozy\" mystery. I've always tried to steer clear of any book with that description for fear it would be too \"cutesy\" and predictable. After this book was recommended to me by a friend I decided to try it and I have to say I was pleasantly surprised. I have 12 of her books and I plan to continue the series until it gets stale...which happens more than not :( The Canadian writers are just \"killing it\" lately..pun intended. This is a lovely, gentle murder mystery set in an artsy, rural, picturesque Canadian town called Three Pines. I did guess who the killer was, although there were many possible suspects. The cast of characters in the town is richly depicted. There are wonderful artist couple Clara and Peter; former Montreal psychologist turned used book store owner Myrna, a huge black woman given to dramatic entrances in purple caftans, bringing unus The Canadian writers are just \"killing it\" lately..pun intended. This is a lovely, gentle murder mystery set in an artsy, rural, picturesque Canadian town called Three Pines. I did guess who the killer was, although there were many possible suspects. The cast of characters in the town is richly depicted. There are wonderful artist couple Clara and Peter; former Montreal psychologist turned used book store owner Myrna, a huge black woman given to dramatic entrances in purple caftans, bringing unusual flower arrangements; gay couple Gabri (a splendid cook and baker) and Olivier, antiques dealers, and bed-and-breakfast owners; ne'er-do-well heir of a wealthy family, Ben Hadley; bitchy, phony real estate dealer Yolande and her petty criminal husband and thug of a son; the tragic Croft family; housecleaner Nellie and her chronically ill husband; curmudgeonly poetess Ruth Zardo; Arts Williamsburg and its board members, all artists, including a famous and unlikeable potter and a sculptor. Jane Neal is a kind, loveable, retired school teacher who is a secret artist. Everyone adores her. (view spoiler) [ But one day her corpse is found in the woods outside her house. No one can imagine that it was anything but an hunting accident, because who would want her dead?. (hide spoiler) ] And then there is Timmer, Ben's mother, who has died recently of cancer.. (view spoiler) [ Or so everyone thinks... (hide spoiler) ] There are many other minor characters. The warmth and friendships among the townspeople, as well as their enmities, are well illustrated. In particular, Ben, Peter, Clara, Myrna, Ruth, Gabri, Olivier, and Jane are all good friends. No one likes Yolande or her husband Andre or her son Bernard. And then there are the investigators from the Surete in Montreal (the provincial police for all of Quebec). Chief Inspector Armand Gamache is a wonderful character. He is French Canadian, cultivated, portly, elegantly dressed, insightful, observant, and compassionate. He promotes collaboration. He is also secretly terrified of heights. His deputy is Jean Guy Beauvoir, a clever and resourceful guy who is so happy to have Gamache as a boss. There are two women detectives, one of whom, a new hire, Agent Nichol, is a thorn in everyone's side, but is so tone deaf she thinks everyone else is the problem. This is a murder mystery, but Penny clearly has great affection for her characters, whom she knows well. The prose is elegant and unobtrusive. There are lots of delightful descriptions of food, parties, art openings, the countryside, etc. And Ralph Cosham does a wonderful job reading the audiobook. This was apparently the first in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. I'm looking forward to reading the subsequent books. ...more One of my co-workers listens to a lot of audio, so when I asked her for some favorites, she exclusively spoke on the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. She said she only goes to another author if there isn't a new title to listen to, and sometimes even goes back to relisten. I don't read a lot of mystery novels so I decided to have a brief diversion and give it a try. It is a typical cozy mystery with a cast of quirky characters but I enjoyed it. After all, I usually find I read mysteries not One of my co-workers listens to a lot of audio, so when I asked her for some favorites, she exclusively spoke on the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series. She said she only goes to another author if there isn't a new title to listen to, and sometimes even goes back to relisten. I don't read a lot of mystery novels so I decided to have a brief diversion and give it a try. It is a typical cozy mystery with a cast of quirky characters but I enjoyed it. After all, I usually find I read mysteries not for the mystery but for the setting and the people. In audio it was hard to keep track of them at first but it got better, and if the series continues with the same people that will help (I'm not sure if it is just the inspector who is consistent or everyone.) If you like northeast Canada, and a mystery novel, you will probably like this. Discussed on Episode 037 of the Reading Envy podcast . ...more Cozy mysteries typically aren't my thing but I have nothing against them, either. My mom loves this series and wanted me to read it so we can discuss it, thus, I am and we will. This is the first book in the series and this tiny, charming Quebecois town (I kept thinking it was British even though Montreal is mentioned ten-million times and most everyone has a French name) has great potential. It's full of quirky characters (Mom's favorite is crabby, old Ruth. Apparently, she gets a duck later on) Cozy mysteries typically aren't my thing but I have nothing against them, either. My mom loves this series and wanted me to read it so we can discuss it, thus, I am and we will. This is the first book in the series and this tiny, charming Quebecois town (I kept thinking it was British even though Montreal is mentioned ten-million times and most everyone has a French name) has great potential. It's full of quirky characters (Mom's favorite is crabby, old Ruth. Apparently, she gets a duck later on) a B&B, bucolic scenery, and the like. The story was fine. There were a few things that stood out and seemed illogical (like walking into a freshly-painted and wallpapered room that had been shut up for five days yet there was no scent? I don't think so) and I felt a little bit jerked around at finding whodunnit since we were lead one direction than another and then the one who did it wasn't really all that satisfying. But that's ok, these stories don't have to fit together perfectly. At least there were clues along the way, unlike some books that are all \"HA HA! You never guessed it was THIS PERSON!\" and you're all, \"I didn't even know that person existed until just this very minute...\" We did not find out, though, what became of Yvette Nichol, the self-involved, delusional brat who somehow made it onto the police force. It seemed there should have been some resolution there. And what is it with the crazy women who live in their own little worlds? And whose names start with Y? Odd. This book was entertaining and I'm glad I listened to it at work. I look forward to discussing it with my mom, though I know she really wants me to hurry up and get to the book that has a duck. ...more I don't normally read \"cozy\" mysteries -- although I do love most of Alexander McCall Smith's books, and I suppose they might be classified as \"cozy\" with a little stretching. But in any case, I had no intention of reading this series until I was coerced into it by an evil Goodreads member who shall remain forever nameless. As I told him, ya gotta watch out for those \"gateway\" books -- they can get you into all sorts of trouble if you're not careful. Now that I've taken that first \"hit\", I can ho I don't normally read \"cozy\" mysteries -- although I do love most of Alexander McCall Smith's books, and I suppose they might be classified as \"cozy\" with a little stretching. But in any case, I had no intention of reading this series until I was coerced into it by an evil Goodreads member who shall remain forever nameless. As I told him, ya gotta watch out for those \"gateway\" books -- they can get you into all sorts of trouble if you're not careful. Now that I've taken that first \"hit\", I can honestly say that I enjoyed this first volume of the \"Three Pines\" (aka \"Chief Inspector Armand Gamache\") series quite a bit. The book is written in a gentle, observant, somewhat melancholy tone, with very nice prose throughout. Here's one good example of Penny's prose, imagery, and melancholia: \"But her wall of words hid from her a growing quietude. She failed to notice his silence, his distance, until it was too late and he\u2019d retreated all the way to his icy island. She hated that place. From it he stood and stared, judged and lobbed shards of sarcasm.\" For the most part, I also enjoyed Penny's work at character building. Occasionally she did hit some false notes, notably in her awkward handling of a young and recalcitrant novice agent working under Chief Inspector Gamache's direction. But since this was not only the first installment of the series but also Penny's first novel, I couldn't really fault her too much for occasional missteps. She seemed to have a great deal of respect and fondness for her characters in general, showing them to have their own strengths and humanity and realism when they could easily have been treated as mere caricatures. Still Life is also one of those \"message\" books, in which the author intends for the reader to notice much more than just the plot of the mystery. The message here relates to change, both internal and external, and how people relate to the changes that happen inevitably in any life. As Ms. Penny puts it: \"Life is change. If you aren\u2019t growing and evolving you\u2019re standing still, and the rest of the world is surging ahead. Most of these people are very immature. They lead \u201cstill\u201d lives, waiting.\" The story is filled with characters who welcome change, or who refuse to acknowledge change, or who actively work to resist change within themselves, or who are changed by circumstances without even realizing it. Lots and lots of changes happening, or failing to happen. And finally -- I have read a few reviews of this book which complain about pacing, or lack thereof. Well, sure -- if you want breakneck action, this isn't the place to look. But speed was nowhere in Penny's list of objectives here. This isn't that kind of mystery. This is the kind of mystery where you settle in to explore a community and the quirks of its inhabitants, get to know the village a bit, maybe admire the gentle wisdom of the Chief Inspector and sympathize with the travails of those who get wrapped up in the consequences of murder. And, yes, the murder will eventually get solved somewhere along the way. Just don't be in a big hurry to get there. ...more", "Title": "Still Life"},
