{"Comments": "Romans and Pokemon . That was my initial reaction when I heard of Codex Alera's concept and I am sure your face looks like this as well (<---B>don't deny it fellow readers,it's a normal reaction</---B>).And to answer your next question,<---M> NO it was not lame and weird</---M>, YES it was a brilliant, brilliant high fantasy book . You're intrigued,aren't you? The story Alera is an empire similar to Rome regarding the social layers,the administration and the army,founded by the descendants and the camp followers of the Lost Rom Romans and Pokemon . That was my initial reaction when I heard of Codex Alera's concept and I am sure your face looks like this as well (don't deny it fellow readers,it's a normal reaction).And to answer your next question, NO it was not lame and weird, YES it was a brilliant, brilliant high fantasy book . You're intrigued,aren't you? The story Alera is an empire similar to Rome regarding the social layers,the administration and the army,founded by the descendants and the camp followers of the Lost Roman Legion.<---F>Every Aleran commands elemental forces called furies</---F>.Well,not everyone.15-years-old Tavi of Calderon Valley is the only Aleran that cannot furycraft,which makes him a freak.An unfortunate series of events brings Tavi and his family in the center of a conspiracy and a barbarian invasion caused by an ambitious and traitorous High Lord.The fate of Alera lies in the hands of a boy whose only weapon is his wits. \u201cIf there is any lesson to be learned from history,it is that all too often the fate of armies,of cities,of entire realms rests upon the actions of one person's decision,good or bad,right or wrong,big or small,can unwittingly change the world. But history can be quite the slattern.One never knows who that person is,where he might be,or what decision he might make. It is almost enough to make me believe in destiny.\u201d Thoughts <---A>Jim Butcher</---A> is a miracle maker. <+++>Furies of Calderon</+++> is the engrossing,addictive first book to one of my all time favorite fantasy series.His world-building is spectacular and flawless,he created a vivid world I'd give anything to live in (just not when there is war raging,duh!). Usurpers,spies,traitors,barbarians,slaves,citizens,powerful furycrafters ,men and women,adults and children,all of them are pieces of a puzzle of intrigue,politics,secrets,battles and sieges .Do you want fights?You get them.Do you want interesting characters?You get them.Do you want romance?Plot twists?Beings of immense power?You.get.them. The characters One of the most fascinating things about Codex Alera is that the main hero is not someone with great powers that make him unique.On the contrary,he is weak, the only one who doesn't possess any powers .But because of this weakness he uses his brain,he is resourceful and one of the smartest heroes I have ever encountered.Sometimes he behaves like a naive child,some others like a mature adult.And there is not a chance that he will not charm you. \u201cTavi looked wildly around the courtyard,and when his gaze flicked toward them,his face lit with a ferocious smile.\"Uncle <---C>Bernard</---C>!Uncle Bernard!\" he shouted,pointing at Doroga.\"He followed me home!Can we keep him?\u201d The rest of the characters,good and evil,are compelling and alluring.I wanted to kiss Bernard and kill Fidelias and become friends with Doroga ( what do you mean he's a cannibal?I don't care ) and fight alongside Amara and Kitai and live through them. Codex Alera is an epic journey you will not regret! ...more Most of the people know the background of this series. For the rest of you I will tell it again. Jim Butcher made a bet he could write a fantasy book(s) based on Roman legions and Pokemon. This is the result. You have a society somewhat resembling that of Ancient Rome with its military being almost exact copy of Roman legions. Magic also exists and comes in the form of Furies (glorified Pokemon). Some of them are related to wind, some to wood, some to fire, etc. This is not Harry Dresden series . Most of the people know the background of this series. For the rest of you I will tell it again. Jim Butcher made a bet he could write a fantasy book(s) based on Roman legions and Pokemon. This is the result. You have a society somewhat resembling that of Ancient Rome with its military being almost exact copy of Roman legions. Magic also exists and comes in the form of Furies (glorified Pokemon). Some of them are related to wind, some to wood, some to fire, etc. This is not Harry Dresden series . A young boy Tavi who also happened to be practically the only one without any magic whatsoever did not take care of his herd on time because a girl asked him to get some special flowers. Finally trying to get the herd back he sees something he is not supposed to see and as the result got mixed up in Big Politics. We all know the life expectancy of little people who happened to be in the way of ambitious politicians. Fear not, this is a fantasy world so unlike in real life Tavi has a slim chance of survival. At the same time a graduate of local Academy called Amara has to infiltrate an enemy camp and do some reconnaissance as a graduation exam (boy, these guys are serious about testing their pupils). She also sees something she is not supposed to see resulting in the same situation as the poor guy I mentioned above. This is not Harry Dresden series . I cannot stress it enough. If you need another Dresden fix before the next book of this better-known series is published look elsewhere. The signature humor of the famous Chicago wizard is not present at all. The only similar themes I found were fast-paced plot and last moment escapes. This book reminded me of a summer blockbuster. I already mentioned non-stop action: at times I felt I did not have a moment to catch my breath. On the other hand this book has a lot of fantasy cliches - I would say the majority of them were present here. So if you look at exciting but mindless fantasy read this book is for you. Just remember that this is not Harry Dresden series . If you want a book which would make you think about the meaning of life this is exactly the wrong one. In the conclusion I need to explain why I kept saying that this is not Harry Dresden series . I saw people gave this one a low rating for the only reason that they expected something similar to that series; this on is not, so if you start reading this one keep it in mind. ...more **Edit: The original review discussed Codex Alera's rather entertaining \"origin story,\" which involved a flamewar, a bet, Pokemon, and the Roman legions. Because this is \"author behavior\" that is not discussed in the book, it may not be in line with the impressively subjective new policies of GR. I don't want to break these shiny new rules, so I am deleting most of the fun parts of this review. My original review is posted over at booklikes --you can take a look at it there, if you want. Sorry abou **Edit: The original review discussed Codex Alera's rather entertaining \"origin story,\" which involved a flamewar, a bet, Pokemon, and the Roman legions. Because this is \"author behavior\" that is not discussed in the book, it may not be in line with the impressively subjective new policies of GR. I don't want to break these shiny new rules, so I am deleting most of the fun parts of this review. My original review is posted over at booklikes --you can take a look at it there, if you want. Sorry about the added trouble! Here is a highly expurgated version which does not mention the author, as I do so hate breaking rules: The story takes place in the Calderon Valley of the Kingdom of Alera, where the descendents of the lost Roman legions apparently settled thousands of years ago. Alera is a savage, hierarchical land, with a failing high king who is the last of his line, a set of scheming lords anxious to relieve him of the burden of office, an economy built upon slavery, and a tendency try to massacre the members of the neighboring lands. Not that its neighbors aren't doing their fair share. Alera, the only human civilization, is surrounded by the savage icemen, the barbaric Marat, and the warg-like Canim. Alerans themselves are superhuman: they are all gifted with and dependent on their Furies : elemental magic that can be embodied in beings of wind, fire, and stone. All Alerans have furycrafting skills and use them for everything from mundane household tasks to healing, flying, and superhuman epic battlemagic. Only Tavi, a shepherd boy in the Calderon Valley, is furyless. Lucky Tavi is treated like a retarded child: he not only looks like a young 12-year-old, but at fifteen years, his lack of furies appears permanent and means he is essentially useless and helpless. In a world dependent on the furies, he cannot turn on or off lights, help with the farming, or even travel fast on the roads (which are specially designed for fast travel via earthcrafting). The story--and the series--starts with a seemingly mundane incident. Tavi wants to bring flowers to the girl he is sweet on, and is therefore so late bringing in the sheep that they wander away and are lost. In retrieving them, he stumbles upon proof of a traitorous scheme that will endanger the entire Calderon Valley. Aided by his watercrafting aunt Isana, his stolid stonecrafting uncle Bernard, and the mysterious windcrafting servant of the high lord, Amara, Tavi must bring news--and preferably proof--to the garrison to alert the legions (yes, Roman legions) to the danger. Along the way, he and his allies must evade and outwit scheming mercenaries, vicious slavers, and bloodthirsty barbarians. ~4.5 stars ...more I admit that I made a huge mistake by reading this novel before any of The Dresden Files. At the time I was shuffling through my Kindle library and I had just finished one or two urban fantasy novels. I was not in the mood for another one, so I thought, Hey! How about The <+++>Furies of Calderon</+++>!? Oh poor, unwitting me. You had such good intentions. My first problem with this book is where the premise came from. Although I could not find any definite evidence, the rumor is that Butcher was bet he could I admit that I made a huge mistake by reading this novel before any of The Dresden Files. At the time I was shuffling through my Kindle library and I had just finished one or two urban fantasy novels. I was not in the mood for another one, so I thought, Hey! How about The Furies of Calderon!? Oh poor, unwitting me. You had such good intentions. My first problem with this book is where the premise came from. Although I could not find any definite evidence, the rumor is that Butcher was bet he couldn't make a good story out of a bad idea. In this case, the lost Roman 9th legion, and Pok\u00e9mon. Now, I personally think that sounds pretty awesome, but I'm a nerd. I also think that Jim Butcher taking it and running with it is a testimony to his balls of steel and his writing capability. Not just anyone could make that shitty bet into a six book series. Unfortunately for us, the bet should have been: take a bad premise but make good characters. Good characters, in my opinion, do not always need a good story, nor do they need ridiculous situations to prove themselves the better human. The bad guys do not need to be evil for the sake of evil with some general douchery thrown in. Nor do all of the good characters need to be noble and upstanding. The elemental powers drew strong parallels to Avatar: The Last Airbender for me. (One of my favorite cartoons!) Who knows where the cartoon writers got their inspiration, but Avatar was released in 2005, while this novel was published in 2004, so no worries there. Of course, the target audience for Avatar: The Last Airbender is 6-11 year olds, so I'm a wee bit outside the demographic there. Furies of Calderon, on the other hand, is advertised as a \"high fantasy novel;\" which means that sex, blood, and general world ending antics are fine. Yet in this novel those all felt distinctly out of place, like it was supposed to be written as a young adult novel but a rape scene accidentally got thrown in. Yeah, you heard me. Furies is like The Last Airbender but with more rape. When I started writing this review I told my boyfriend that I was reviewing Furies of Calderon, but he gave me a blank look. As soon as I said, \"You know, Avatar The Last Rape Bender?\" He walked away groaning. I started referring to Furies as that when the stupidly one dimensional and overly antagonistic local muscle revealed their propensity for said torture and rape. It was so ridiculous and purposefully overdramatic for the sake of drama that I threw the book down and had to walk away for a few days. At least the major antagonists have some semblance of a plan going for them, but the betrayer was revealed way too early in the story to make that very dramatic. As in the first chapter. Butcher, I feel, really missed out on some potential character development there with Amara. So here I am as the reader, disgusted when local farmers rape slaves for drama, and then confused as to why a perfectly good opportunity for drama and character development was dropped by the wayside. Whether it was an excess of drama or a lack thereof, a lot of the book was telling and not showing. The one sentence I wrote down after finishing it to remind myself of things I should say in a review was \"500 pages of characters talking about how scared they are.\" I was badgered, harassed, and goaded into unspeakable acts of eye rolling as characters fleshed out how incredibly frightened they were, over and over again. It's not character development, it's 500 pages of characters worried about what is going to happen. Of course, it's those one dimensional \"good characters\" I mentioned earlier, noble and upstanding, who don't have any other traits to talk about besides either being right, or scared. If that is all your characters are capable of, something needs to be reevaluated here. It is a trope in urban fantasy that the main character starts out already very powerful, pain resistant, tough, and disillusioned. In Furies of Calderon, however, it is the exact opposite. Not only is the main character weak, he is the only weak character, every single other person having their own elemental already, while he has none. While reading this book I kept thinking, \"NOW would be a good time for his powers to suddenly come into affect....ok how about NOW?!\" This is the one positive thing about this novel, and at least it is a valid drama point. As much as I would like to know whether he ever does get his powers, I was definitely not planning on finishing the series. However, I will be begrudgingly reading more, but only because the internet informs me that it gets better. Two years later... I did it. I finally finished. Here is the star break down for the series for me: Furies of Calderon - 2 Academ's Fury - 2 Cursor's Fury - 1 Captain's Fury - 2 Princeps' Fury - 1 First Lord's Fury - 2 Needless to say, I do not recommend this series. It does not get better. ...more Read from December 26, 2015 to January 03, 2016 This review is for the whole series (spoiler free). First of all, I would like to say that reading some other reviews, you will get the impression that the story has Pokemons, or at least something similar. That's kinda bullshit. It has nothing to do with either them, or anything resembling them. Codex Alera is a nice fantasy story, taking place in Alera, a realm strongly resembling the Roman Empire. The magic system is the best i have encounter, sav Read from December 26, 2015 to January 03, 2016 This review is for the whole series (spoiler free). First of all, I would like to say that reading some other reviews, you will get the impression that the story has Pokemons, or at least something similar. That's kinda bullshit. It has nothing to do with either them, or anything resembling them. Codex Alera is a nice fantasy story, taking place in Alera, a realm strongly resembling the Roman Empire. The magic system is the best i have encounter, save perhaps the one of the Night Angel. The characters are well built as well. I got really close to them,and completely understood their emotions and decisions. Unfortunately, that's where the good attributes stop. \u201cLiving was a dangerous past-time, and often quite painful\u2014but there was also such joy in living, such beauty, things that one would otherwise never see, never experience, never know. The risk of pain and loss was a part of living.\u201d To begin with, the story is too Goddamn long. All of the story arcs, and i do mean all of them, are far stretched. I really got tired after the 3rd book. Thing is, far stretched arcs weren't enough for Jim Butcher. He had to keep repeating the same topics. I swear to God, i got sick reading about a female character who loves a male character, but can't be with him because she can't bare him a child. Thoughts & discussions about it lasted more than 200 pages in the whole series. Another really big problem i encountered is that there were a lot of cliches, and no surprises. Everything was predictable. In a trilogy this is not a big deal, but in 6 books? It's really frustrating. All in all, Codex Alera is a nice fantasy series, but it doesn't belong in the top of your TBR list. Leave it for some other time... You can find more of my reviews on http://booknest.eu ...more Furies of Calderon is your typical fantasy epic. Swords, sorcery, world turning upheaval, the blackest of evil and noblest of good. Only, the true hero of the story is not only powerless... Because that's been done before. No, the true hero is now only powerless, he's the ONLY powerless character. Even the other lowly farm hands can command boulders to simply pull themselves out of crop fields. The savage Marat barbarians all have years of fighting experience from birth and great mighty beasts wh Furies of Calderon is your typical fantasy epic. Swords, sorcery, world turning upheaval, the blackest of evil and noblest of good. Only, the true hero of the story is not only powerless... Because that's been done before. No, the true hero is now only powerless, he's the ONLY powerless character. Even the other lowly farm hands can command boulders to simply pull themselves out of crop fields. The savage Marat barbarians all have years of fighting experience from birth and great mighty beasts who kill with and for them. The Alerans all have access to their furies that control metal, earth, fire, air, water and plants making them powerful in a very many interesting ways that you wouldn't immediately think of as the traditional domains' powers. But Tavi is just a smart young lad who really knows how to run. Making him the hero is brilliant, but better yet is not making him do things so unbelievable as to nullify the fact that he's powerless compared to everyone around him. How many times does somebody have to save his ass? I can't even remember, but it was refreshing. Jim Butcher takes his incredible story telling to a fully other dimension. The Dresden Files' first person narative is the only way those stories could work as amazingly as they do, but the multiple view points in The Furies of Calderon turn it into a vast reaching epic, every bit as expansive as Dresden is intimate. ...more First of all... I consider Jim Butcher to be a very talented writer, and I have greatly enjoyed the Dresden Files for a number of years. So when reading my complaints, you must also keep in mind that, having read all of the Dresden Files books more than once, I had a certain level of expectation that needed to be met. They weren't. With the exception of a few short scenes in the beginning and in the middle, this first book in the Codex Alera was very, very subpar. It's not even all that long and First of all... I consider Jim Butcher to be a very talented writer, and I have greatly enjoyed the Dresden Files for a number of years. So when reading my complaints, you must also keep in mind that, having read all of the Dresden Files books more than once, I had a certain level of expectation that needed to be met. They weren't. With the exception of a few short scenes in the beginning and in the middle, this first book in the Codex Alera was very, very subpar. It's not even all that long and yet reading it took me well over a month. Even overlooking the ridiculous amount of pronoun typos in various chapters, the world-building is mediocre at best. The reader is never given an introduction to any of the new concepts so much as thrown in the deep end of the world-building pool. The drop is unpleasant and unrewarding. The writing is weak and the characters, for the most part, are unbelievable and unlikable. The book tries too hard to be epic, and never manages to succeed. Perhaps one is meant to see this as Butcher's equivalent of George R. R. Martin's Westeros, but Alera fails to be nearly as complex or interesting. Due to liking Butcher's other series, I will have to try the second book in the Codex Alera but I will not make as much of an effort to complete it. Doing so with this book was exhausting enough. ...more I am shocked at how many people actually really liked this novel. The pacing was awful, the characters were flat and there were too many (often I couldn't tell who was on which side) - and the lame novice-to-hero progression of several characters was painfully uncreative. The only good parts were parts where the men spoke a little like Dresden (Butcher's other major series' protagonist). The one witch was creepy enough, and the monsters were pretty cool, but that seems to be Butcher's general st I am shocked at how many people actually really liked this novel. The pacing was awful, the characters were flat and there were too many (often I couldn't tell who was on which side) - and the lame novice-to-hero progression of several characters was painfully uncreative. The only good parts were parts where the men spoke a little like Dresden (Butcher's other major series' protagonist). The one witch was creepy enough, and the monsters were pretty cool, but that seems to be Butcher's general strong point. I found myself thinking, \"These are some of the most boring, characterless heroes and heroines I have ever read about.\" Pretty much the only thing you find out about anyone is what weapon they can wield, where their allegiance lies, and who they fancy. That does not a character make. I realized part of the way through that it has the exact same plot in general as the Dresden books, too. It's just slow and not funny and harder to follow. Overall I was shocked after having found the Dresden Files to be a breath of fresh air, compelling, fantastic characters and world, great noir... I really had to struggle to read all the way through this book because I was hoping it might get better. I'm definitely not planning on reading more of the series after such a disappointment. And please, everyone, stop writing about those four elements. It's not cool anymore. ...more Executive Summary: A fun but trope-heavy fantasy story that combines a Lost Roman Legion with Pokemon. Yeah, you read that right. Audio book: I've long heard both good and bad things about Kate Reading. I actually got to meet her last year for the A Memory of Light book tour as she and her husband both live near me, but had never listened to a book by her before now. Personally I think she's a really good reader. However, she may not be well suited for this book as it has many male characters (the Executive Summary: A fun but trope-heavy fantasy story that combines a Lost Roman Legion with Pokemon. Yeah, you read that right. Audio book: I've long heard both good and bad things about Kate Reading. I actually got to meet her last year for the A Memory of Light book tour as she and her husband both live near me, but had never listened to a book by her before now. Personally I think she's a really good reader. However, she may not be well suited for this book as it has many male characters (then again what fantasy series doesn't?) and her male voices aren't as good. They aren't bad though, and eventually I got used to her so I wasn't thinking about the fact that it was a woman attempting a man's voice even though it was always apparent. I think her theater background is apparent with the variety of inflections and voices she uses as well as the emotion and inflection of her reading. Full Review Until maybe 2 years ago I didn't really read that much anymore. I wasn't well-read in fantasy. In late 2006 I discovered Jim Butcher and the Dresden Files. I devoured all the books that were out until I was stuck waiting like everyone else. Then I noticed in the back of the books that Mr. Butcher had 3 books in another series though, called Codex Alera. Unlike the Dresden Files, it wasn't Urban Fantasy, but closer to \"traditional\" or epic fantasy. I picked it up and devoured those books as well. For awhile I liked this series better than Dresden Files, but it was a close thing. One thing was for certain, Jim Butcher wrote the kind of books I liked to read. For 3 glorious years I had 2 new Butcher books/year to look forward to. Fast forward 7 years or so and I recently did a re-read of Dresden Files in audio, but haven't read this one since it ended back in 2009. I'd consider myself much better read in Fantasy than when I first discovered this. I was a bit apprehensive about a reread. Would the series live up to my memory of it? Or would I find all the tropes tired and boring? The answer is a little of both it seems. It took me a bit to get back into this book. I was starting to get nervous that I was ruining my memory of this series. However once things really got going, I remembered why I enjoyed it so much. This is a \"chosen one\" story through and through. However most chosen one stories tend to have a protagonist who is suddenly great at everything. This one does not. In a world where everyone posses at least a little magic, Tavi has none. He is considered a \"freak\". That notion of being an outsider is something I've always identified with. I liked that Tavi had to use his wits to make it in a world where he was always at a disadvantage. That said, a 15 year old shepherd boy who saves the realm has been done. A lot. The book also has some \"mustache-twirling\" bad guys. Mr. Butcher does a good job at making me hate those characters, but at the same time they feel a bit cartoonish. That said, there are other antagonists in the series who are much more complex. They aren't evil necessarily, but are willing to do whatever it takes to accomplish their goals. Those goals happen to be set against our young protagonist and his family, so they come out looking evil. But are they really? That's an ongoing question that won't be answered here. I didn't know it until many years later, but Mr. Butcher was challenged to write a story based on a \"lame idea\". He countered that he could it using 2 Lame ideas, that of \"Lost Roman Legion\" and Pokemon. It sounds really stupid, but it somehow works for me. I know almost nothing of Pokemon apart from the whole capturing magical creatures thing. There may be more to it. I don't know. The strongest furycrafters in the book have the ability to summon powerful elementals ala Pokemon, but they aren't the only part of it. His magic system is really fun and creative, though you really don't get the full experience in just this book. To this day though, it's one of the magic systems I've most enjoyed reading. So if you can get past the heavy trope use and magic system based on Pokemon, the only other thing that may turn people away is battles. This series is battle heavy. I'd guess most of the last 25% of this book or so is one long battle. I loved it. People that aren't into that kind of thing, may find it tedious. I think the story is pretty well self-contained. There are a lot of bigger questions looming, but all issues of the book are wrapped up pretty nicely in my opinion. I had originally planned on alternating the books in this series with books from another, but by the time I got to that battle, there was just no way I could stop. I jumped right into the next book, and may continue on all the way to the end without a break. ...more worst fantasy book ever, too many books like this out in the fantasy genre out there! too many tropes! so formulaic of a story! the first line on the back cover tells the whole plot to the series! please stop writing books like these! if this was written in the late 70s or the early 80s, then it would have worked a lot better and fresher I only read about 150 pages into the book and stopped 4.0 stars. Great, well developed characters, an excellent magic system and wonderful world-building and plot pacing. Appears to be the start of a compelling series. Will defintely read the next books in the series. Entering the Codex Alera series you're introduced to some very familiar tropes, but also to some very new ideas. On the familiar side, there is a coming-of-age plot for one of the main characters, there is a political power struggle and a lot of action and battle scenes. On the other hand, the society is somewhere between the typical medieval setting and the Roman Empire. This is fresh enough for me. The most prominent idea would be the furies, elemental creatures that are bound to almost every hu Entering the Codex Alera series you're introduced to some very familiar tropes, but also to some very new ideas. On the familiar side, there is a coming-of-age plot for one of the main characters, there is a political power struggle and a lot of action and battle scenes. On the other hand, the society is somewhere between the typical medieval setting and the Roman Empire. This is fresh enough for me. The most prominent idea would be the furies, elemental creatures that are bound to almost every human being. The humans live in some kind of symbiosis with these creatures and the furies have a huge impact on everyday life. This symbiosis could have been explored a bit deeper for my taste, but I hope to learn more about it in upcoming books of the series. Although the book has a very familiar approach regarding tropes, I was surprised to find most of the characters to be more ambivalent then I thought. Especially the villains are portrayed very well and are not evil without evil's sake, maybe with one exception. Over the course of the book we're following 5 povs. There is Tavi, a young shepherd's apprentice (yes Butcher went there). In contrast to the other humans, he hasn't bonded with a fury so far, which makes him a freak to some of the others. He lives with his uncle Bernard, a former veteran of the King's Legion and a strong eartcrafter. He is also the leader of the small community, where Tavi lives. Another member of that community is Tavi's aunt Isanna, a watercrafter who is very strong and commanding on the outside, but a little insecure on the inside. The fourth pov is Amara. Amara is a cursor of the king. Cursors are somewhere between messangers and agents. She is about to infiltrate a rebel camp to gather intelligence. Her supervisor is the cursor Fidelias, who accompanies her on her mission. Amara was my favorite character of those 5. Her journey is very interesting and she is very capable and likeable. The most obvious character development is going on for Tavi, cause his is the coming-of-age thread. I'm not a fan of those stories, so some of his parts weren't that interesting for me personally. But thankfully the book is really fast paced. I dreaded 300 pages of village life, but if you get past the first 100-150 pages the pace picks up and there's plenty of action. Overall I enjoyed the book and I would rate it 3,5 stars. I decided to give it 3 stars here on GR, cause some of the books I rated 4 stars here lately, I enjoyed a tad more, but those are 3 really strong stars. I'm definitely going to continue the series at some point, but not right away. ...more An interesting series from the creator of the Dresden files. This is more of an epic fantasy with a really interesting magic. The characters were well done & I especially liked all the different creatures. Very interesting world & inhabitants with logical politics & problems. That said, I had a few problems with the story, especially at the end. (view spoiler) [ Too many good & bad guys seemingly died in the final confrontation & then weren't dead at all. Cheap shots, IMO. If s An interesting series from the creator of the Dresden files. This is more of an epic fantasy with a really interesting magic. The characters were well done & I especially liked all the different creatures. Very interesting world & inhabitants with logical politics & problems. That said, I had a few problems with the story, especially at the end. (view spoiler) [ Too many good & bad guys seemingly died in the final confrontation & then weren't dead at all. Cheap shots, IMO. If someone falls with a rope around their neck & a crack is heard, they're dead of a severed spinal column & shock. Not here though. Yuck. (hide spoiler) ] I almost took a star away for that, but decided since I really wanted to start the second book, to leave the extra star. I often give the first book of a good series an extra star as a thanks for the introduction. On to Academ's Fury ! Maps: There is no bloody map in the book! The only maps are in the 3d & 6th books. I paid over $10 each for these paperbacks, so you'd think they could spring for a damn map. There's a good selection here: http://www.jim-butcher.com/posts/2009... They're supposed to be for your computer wall paper, but print out in monochrome well. http://www.jimbutcheronline.com/bb/in... contains a lot of maps of specific areas. I didn't find it all that useful & there are maps throughout the series, so it contains spoilers. ...more Well... THAT WAS REALLY REALLY AWESOME! I started to read this series, knowing that the authors main inspirations for these books were the old Roman empire and Pok\u00e9mon. That sounds really weird but after hearing this I was very curious about picking up the first volume and I wasnt disappointed. First of all it was not very difficult to get into the story and this is a problem which I have very often with other High Fantasy series, especially in the first novel. The plot was very exciting from the Well... THAT WAS REALLY REALLY AWESOME! I started to read this series, knowing that the author\u00b4s main inspirations for these books were the old Roman empire and Pok\u00e9mon. That sounds really weird but after hearing this I was very curious about picking up the first volume and I wasn\u00b4t disappointed. First of all it was not very difficult to get into the story and this is a problem which I have very often with other High Fantasy series, especially in the first novel. The plot was very exciting from the beginning and the switching between different characters not overly complicated because the story was focused on a major point and came to an end which was relatively closed and also made me interested in reading book two in the series. Furthermore I did not read a fantasy novel for a very long time where the fighting scenes are described so good and interesting. It didn\u00b4t only remind me of Pok\u00e9mon but in some scenes also of X-Men or Avatar: The Last Airbender :D That sounds silly but it isn\u00b4t, the whole magic system within this world is absolutely believable and very imaginative for the reader. The world building which was inspired by the roman history was also very good but I hope to see more of the world in the following volumes because I think that the world of Alera has a lot of more potential and that this was only the beginning. Now I come to the characters. Tavi, the main protagonist, was very likable to me. The way he fought through dangerous situations, without the ability of using elements like nearly every other person in this world, really impressed me and I also liked that he is not a perfect hero but that he has also some self-doubt within the story. I liked nearly all other characters as well Tavi\u00b4s friends and family as the antagonists of this novel, they had all very interesting and individual personalities and motivations. But the highlight of this book regarding characters were the Marat. Their way to live by their own laws reminds me a little bit of the Dothraki (\"A Song of Ice and Fire\" franchise) and I would love to get to know more of their culture in the rest of the series. Overall this is an absolutely stunning and brilliant intro to the series and I will definitely continue. Well-deserved 5 of 5 stars! ...more Fantasy with some romance. Good story. First in the complete series of six books. A little too much internal reflection, a battle scene that went on and on, and a bit predictable, but still a solid hit. (I read the entire series. Six books. A coming-of-age tale. Feel-good fantasy with brotherly camaraderie and romantic relationships amidst a military theme. Apocalyptic battles towards the last books.) Audio, narrated by Kate Reading, includes annoying trumpet fanfare numerous times. This series i Fantasy with some romance. Good story. First in the complete series of six books. A little too much internal reflection, a battle scene that went on and on, and a bit predictable, but still a solid hit. (I read the entire series. Six books. A coming-of-age tale. Feel-good fantasy with brotherly camaraderie and romantic relationships amidst a military theme. Apocalyptic battles towards the last books.) Audio, narrated by Kate Reading, includes annoying trumpet fanfare numerous times. This series is told in 3rd person POV (yay for that). The long-lost Ninth Roman Legion \u2014 stationed near York and possibly disappearing near Hadrian's Wall at the Scottish-English boundary sometime during the 2nd Century AD\u2014 isn't really lost. No, it just marched into another world, to this magical place. That's why we couldn't find them. And that's why the Alerans in this fantastical setting are known by Roman names like Octavian (Tavi, the hero), Maximus, Gaius, etc., and they speak in Latinate terms like legionaire, tribune, centurion, juris macto, ex-cursorius, gladius, patriserus, etc. This series takes place on a planet called Carna, in the Kingdom of Alera. Aging King/ Emperor / First Lord Gaius Sextus has no heir, because his son Princeps Septimus was assassinated 15 years ago. Treacherous high lords and senators vie for the crown. In addition to vicious political infighting, Alera is surrounded by super-strong non-human (but fairly humanoid) enemies: Icemen, Marat, Vord, and Canim. Alerans are only puny weak humans, so their survival depends on their ability to bond with six elemental Furies: air, fire, water, wood/plants, metal/ steel, and earth/stone. Alerans are \u2014 innately, genetically \u2014 capable of fury-crafting. But not Tavi, a shepherd boy in the Calderon Valley of Alera. Tavi lives on a group homestead called Bernardholt with his uncle Bernard, a wise and powerful earth- and wood-crafter, and his aunt Isana, a water-crafter and healer. Apparently, Tavi was born without that special fury-crafting gene. Thus, Tavi is treated like a retard (by some) and at 15 years, his lack of fury-crafting is considered permanent. But he can think his way around most problems...Tavi prevails though sheer guts, instinct, intelligence, and unyielding determination. It helps that he's read the ancient manuscripts, describing obsolete Roman siege weapons that don't require magical furies. It also helps that he grew up in the mountains, as a shepherd, learning to deal with wild predators. ------ Helpful info about the elemental furies (earth, water, fire, etc) and the capacities of fury crafting from Gil Wilson: https://www.sfsite.com/12b/fc286.htm From BBC: \"In fact, the last certain piece of evidence relating to the existence of the Legion from anywhere in the Roman Empire comes from York where an inscription, dating to AD 108, credits the Ninth with rebuilding the fortress in stone. Some time between then and the mid-2nd Century, when a record of all Legions was compiled, the unit had ceased to exist.\" http://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-1275... ...more 5+ stars to an awesome start to a series. Not sure how the rest of the series is going to compete with the start of it but I am looking forward to see where it goes. Especially since my friend says they get better. Epic fantasy adventure story of Tavi. Tavi is a boy born without any furies and is looked upon by many in his realm as a freak. In the realm of Alera people have furies which allow then to control earth, water, air, fire metal in some way or another. Some are very strong and some not s 5+ stars to an awesome start to a series. Not sure how the rest of the series is going to compete with the start of it but I am looking forward to see where it goes. Especially since my friend says they get better. Epic fantasy adventure story of Tavi. Tavi is a boy born without any furies and is looked upon by many in his realm as a freak. In the realm of Alera people have furies which allow then to control earth, water, air, fire metal in some way or another. Some are very strong and some not so much, but everyone has some kind of fury except for Tavi. He has always been told he just hasn't come into them yet but at age 15 it is becoming harder to believe that he will ever come into a fury. When Tavi and his uncle Bernard run into trouble in the valley, Tavi will have to rely on his brain all the time wishing he had some kind of fury to help him through his ordeals. My friend told me that it started out slow because of the world building that happens. I didn't find that at all. The world building was done during the telling of several story-lines that were going on. It didn't feel like an info dump where you are trying to figure out what is going on. There are things that are mentioned but aren't spelled out what they are but I like that sometimes. There are stories that give a definition of all the terms and I feel like the world building can drag on when that happens. I prepared myself for the world building and found myself immediately immersed in the story with the world just kind of forming during the story to my delight. One of my favorite parts of this story is how the face of evil gets blurred. There are flat out heroes and evil villains in this story but then there are those that enter the grey zone. That grey zone gets entered into by the good and evil characters. Once the story gets started it is nonstop action. There are several stories going on and they stay on that story for a long time. You are not bouncing back and forth getting teased and then jumping back and forth constantly. There is the longest battle I ever read about without ever getting bored. I guess because it was actually several battles broken up with strategic maneuvering. There was also several story-lines being told within the same battle. If it was 1% or 2% shorter than it would have been perfect. Now if you want to pick it apart there were times when I was like why don\u2019t they just do __. There was also a couple battles that were a little farfetched but they were short and didn't affect my enjoyment of the story. There are a couple romances building but this is a fantasy lovers book not a romance lovers book. I loved the pace of the book. The writing was mature but not to the point of ever having to hit my dictionary. I\u2019m really looking forward to the rest of the series. This book ends with enough finality that you wouldn't have to move on with the series. Anymore it seems that they end in a cliffhanger to get you to read the next book. The quality of this book will have me moving on with the series and not a cliffhanger and I LOVE that. ...more I read this book after I ran out of Dresden Files. Jim's little blurb at the end of his books had convinced me to give it a whirl. Let it be known, this is not to the caliber of The Dresden Files. It is a good book none the less. The story follows several characters in the world of Alera, who find themselves intertwined together in a land on the brink of war. This is a book of themes. Bravery, honor, love, family and sacrifice are all themes predominately displayed through out the story. Alera i I read this book after I ran out of Dresden Files. Jim's little blurb at the end of his books had convinced me to give it a whirl. Let it be known, this is not to the caliber of The Dresden Files. It is a good book none the less. The story follows several characters in the world of Alera, who find themselves intertwined together in a land on the brink of war. This is a book of themes. Bravery, honor, love, family and sacrifice are all themes predominately displayed through out the story. Alera itself is not described in much detail, and the reader is left mostly to context to piece together what the world is like. The main characters are likable, but not easy to identify with. What I liked most about the book is its simple yet engaging storyline. It's essentially good vs evil. I'm sucker for a story where the good guys wins, and heroes get the girls...or guys. Overall I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys classic fantasy story telling. I do however caution Dresden fans, this is no substitute while waiting for the next Dresden Files. ...more A friend of mine has been trying to get me to read this for ages and I'm so glad I finally did! I loved it! A lot of people complain that it's very trope heavy, and I suppose it is, but it didn't bother me in the least. There are lots of brilliant ideas that make the tropes feel new and it was just such a fun ride. The main characters were fantastic and I felt deeply invested in all of them. Although I don't care much for Jim Butcher's Dresden Files, I have to say that I really enjoy his Codex A A friend of mine has been trying to get me to read this for ages and I'm so glad I finally did! I loved it! A lot of people complain that it's very trope heavy, and I suppose it is, but it didn't bother me in the least. There are lots of brilliant ideas that make the tropes feel new and it was just such a fun ride. The main characters were fantastic and I felt deeply invested in all of them. Although I don't care much for Jim Butcher's Dresden Files, I have to say that I really enjoy his Codex Alera and can't wait to read on in the series. Thanks Nimrod! Excellent recommendation :) ...more I tried, I really tried. DNF at 18%. High fantasy just is NOT for me. Yeah - I liked it! It reminded me a lot of Sanderson's Elantris with a dash of May's Pliocine Exile. The magical system - Furies - has a huge amount of potential, and it's easy to see how it inspired Butcher to write this series. Traditionally, magic falls into two camps: Wizards - they learn spells/potions/summonings, etc and then carefully use them as tools to achieve the end result. Sorcerers - they are the source of magic and improvise on the fly to twist the world to their desire Furies don't fal Yeah - I liked it! It reminded me a lot of Sanderson's Elantris with a dash of May's Pliocine Exile. The magical system - Furies - has a huge amount of potential, and it's easy to see how it inspired Butcher to write this series. Traditionally, magic falls into two camps: Wizards - they learn spells/potions/summonings, etc and then carefully use them as tools to achieve the end result. Sorcerers - they are the source of magic and improvise on the fly to twist the world to their desire Furies don't fall easily into either of these camps. Furies are elemental spirits - earth furies, fire furies, air furies, etc. People find and bond with a powerful furies when they are young, and call on them telepathically for aid. Furies are semi-sentient, semi-autonomous beings, which makes fury-crafters a lot closer to sorcerers - they think what they want, and the fury makes it happen - but the fury-crafter themselves are not the source of the magic. It's a very clever concept because wizards are easier for audiences to relate to, because they start 'normal' and learn their way to power. Sorcerers are imbued with power, are further from 'normal' to start with, and usually harder to relate to - but are arguably more fun to write. Butcher had already written a superb wizard (Harry Dresden) - and a lot of that experience carries over here. The actual story (government secret agent, rebel forces, chase scenes and sieges, etc) isn't particularly inspired - it's more a generic narrative shape to show-off how furies force these to be reinterpreted. Water-fury healing is awesome! Using earth-furies to raise castle walls is awesome! Using air-furies for flying knights is awesome! It didn't quite get that 5th star, because I don't think he took any proper risks - the heroes are good and the baddies are bad - there's no shades of grey (there's a little personal-honour over factional-disputes, but that's still kind of classic for fantasy). There's no gritty, make-you-wince moments. There's no startling poetry. There's no back-of-the-neck poetry. There's no shocking twists. It's a grand adventure, and it's a really fun, enjoyable ride - but it delivers that really well - but there's nothing to elevate it into the 5-star 'whoa that blew my mind' category. Having said that, neither Dresden Files nor Vorkosigan Saga blow my mind, but they regularly get 5-stars because I adore the characters. Neither Amara (the secret agent) nor Tavi (the brave youth) are in that category (yet). ...more Ich liebe die Welt. Den Aufbau. Die Geschichte. Die Figuren, alle unterschiedlich, eigensinnig, stark und einfach besonders. Butcher zieht mich in seine Geschichte hinein und l\u00e4sst mich derma\u00dfen zufrieden zur\u00fcck, dass ich gar nicht viele Worte verlieren m\u00f6chte. Wer Fantasy gerne liest, ist hier genau richtig. Jetzt freue ich mich einfach, dass es noch so viele weitere B\u00e4nde gibt. So this was an excellent start to the Codex Alera series. It was jam packed with everything I need in a book which includes a great plot, great writing, great characters!! That is all I am going to say for this review. I am just going to let the rating and these few words let you know my love for this book while I go and start book 2!!!!!!!! So at the end of a lot of the Harry Dresden books there's this author biography that talked about how Butcher has loved epic fantasy since he was a wee thing, and how he wrote it for years but never got published, and it was urban fantasy that broke him into print. But what he really loves is epic fantasy, because he imprinted on Lord of the Rings and he just, OMG, he loves it. Which tells you most of what you need to know about this series. Epic fantasy where the good guys win through ever-mount So at the end of a lot of the Harry Dresden books there's this author biography that talked about how Butcher has loved epic fantasy since he was a wee thing, and how he wrote it for years but never got published, and it was urban fantasy that broke him into print. But what he really loves is epic fantasy, because he imprinted on Lord of the Rings and he just, OMG, he loves it. Which tells you most of what you need to know about this series. Epic fantasy where the good guys win through ever-mounting odds, male virtue is constructed almost entirely through soldiering, and did I mention the long lost prince who rises to bring hope and goodness to the threatened realm? Man, these were awesome finals reading.[1] I mean patriarchy blah flat female characters blah moral complexity of a high school history discussion blahcakes. But the valiant battles fought against vast evil! The inspiration of the faint-hearted and self-interested by a great leader! Man, if these had been around when I was twelve or so, they would have been the best things ever. As it is they were, uh, well. Shockingly addictive and compulsively readable (2500 pages in twelve days, if you must know). [1] See, the thing I need for good finals reading is a series, because I want my brain to get into a particular universe groove and just run on it. Changing books mid-finals takes too much brain I need elsewhere. And it's got to be a lot of reading, to carry me through. And I've got to want to read it at any given moment where I might need a breather, because I have this overfocusing problem where I study study study, and then when I take a break I can't actually switch my brain over to anything that isn't tax law and I go a little crazy because I'm too tired to keep studying but too rabbited up in the head to do anything else. This series totally wins on all fronts. ...more It wasn't bad read but I expected lot more and I expected high fantasy book not YA. First the good stuff.Book is set in interesting and unique world where magic affects everyday life and everyone has it.Magic system and combats are also nicely done and I disagree that furies are similar to pokemon/digimon, I think that magic system works similar to Avatar:Last airbender which is always plus for me.I also loved that protagonists is the only one who doesn't have any magic so he has to compensate wi It wasn't bad read but I expected lot more and I expected high fantasy book not YA. First the good stuff.Book is set in interesting and unique world where magic affects everyday life and everyone has it.Magic system and combats are also nicely done and I disagree that furies are similar to pokemon/digimon, I think that magic system works similar to Avatar:Last airbender which is always plus for me.I also loved that protagonists is the only one who doesn't have any magic so he has to compensate with wit. Not so good stuff: Dialogs are mostly flat.They aren't bad, I would say that just serviceable, there are no witty dialogs or interesting banter between characters.Characters are also not particularly interesting, most of them are very one sided and I don't think I will remember any of them for long.I would be more willing to forgive this to new author but when Butcher wrote this he had several Dresden novels behind him and while they aren't perfect they didn't have those problems. One big issue I had with this book are it's attempts of being dark and mature.Dark parts in this book feel out of place since it's mostly heroic YA tale. ...more Codex Alera 1: Furies of Calderon by Jim Butcher As you probably have noticed by now, I am a huge fan of Jim Butcher's Dresden Files series. The books are fun reads - fast-paced, gritty and realistic, while still maintaining that a tarnished patina of fantasy about them. They have a great narrative voice and I could read them the same way I eat a bag of Doritos - all in one sitting, unsure of how it happened, but with less orange Cheez (tm) on my fingers. I know for a fact that as long as Jim But Codex Alera 1: Furies of Calderon by Jim Butcher As you probably have noticed by now, I am a huge fan of Jim Butcher's Dresden Files series. The books are fun reads - fast-paced, gritty and realistic, while still maintaining that a tarnished patina of fantasy about them. They have a great narrative voice and I could read them the same way I eat a bag of Doritos - all in one sitting, unsure of how it happened, but with less orange Cheez (tm) on my fingers. I know for a fact that as long as Jim Butcher continues to write The Dresden Files , I will continue reading them. At a certain point, I became aware of his Codex Alera series, mainly because he talked about them in author's notes in the backs of the latest few Dresden paperbacks. I didn't really read through the notes, usually because I was far too impatient to get into the next book, but I knew they were out there and that I would, sooner or later, have to read them. I also knew that they would be a different beast from what I was used to. This series is Butcher's real baby, as he tells us. From his childhood, Butcher was fascinated with high fantasy, the kinds of epic journeys that were made famous by people like Tolkien and Eddings, Zelazny, Brooks, and Weis and Hickman, to name a few. So, when he decided that he wanted to be a writer, it was on that kind of world-spanning, epic fantasy that he set his sights. He found what a lot of young writers find - that this kind of fiction is viciously hard to do well, and is really suitable only for writers who have either mutant-level innate talent or who have spent many, many years honing their skills. Out of the process of working on his craft, of course, Butcher gave birth to Harry Dresden, which has certainly made the world a better place, but he never forgot his dream of writing an epic fantasy series. After much hard work, and what was no doubt a series of terrifying decisions to let it go public, Butcher published The Codex Alera , his contribution to the Sword-and-Sorcery genre. It introduces us to the nation of Alera, an old and massive country build on swords, intrigue, and the strange talent possessed by most people to shape and control the very elements themselves. Within the very earth itself, in water and air and fire, trees and metal and stone, there are furies - spirit beings that can bend these elements to their will. The furies, in turn, link to a human, who gives them direction and purpose. A human in control of a fury is a force to be reckoned with, whether they are just bending a water fury to tell if someone is telling the truth, or compelling an earth fury to raise great walls in defense of a population. Most everyone has one or two furies at their command, and some of them have more. Young Tavi, living in the frontier region of Calderon, has none. Despite his disadvantage, however, Tavi is surrounded by good people. He's been raised by his uncle, Bernard, who is the leader of their community at Bernardholt, and Bernard's sister, Isana. Like all people on the edges of empire, the people of Bernardholt have learned to be tough and live without the security of armies or the support of central government. They take care of their own matters, thankyouverymuch, and don't need a lot of interference from the rest of Aleran political society. Unfortunately, of course, what they want doesn't really matter. They soon find themselves at the heart of a violent coup, a plan to overrun the empire and topple its leaders. With the help of the inhuman Marat, the traitors to the First Lord are willing to sacrifice everything in order to save what they believe are the best parts of their nation. Of all the themes that kind of got lost in this book, that last one is the one I wish had gotten more play - that sometimes people do horrible things for reasons that they believe are not only defensible, but actually good. The main antagonist, a man with the hilariously ironic name of Fidelias, starts out as a wonderfully conflicted character. He tricks his apprentice, the Cursor Amara, into traveling with him to the rebel camp. He makes an attempt to convert her to his way of thinking, and when she rejects a place in his coup, he reverts to Villain Pastiche - the former teacher who is very, very disappointed with his student, to the point where he just has to kill her so she won't give away the plan. Fidelias travels with a sword-happy knight, Aldrick, who is almost invincibly good at what he does, and the knight's lady-friend, a semi-psychotic water-crafter named Odiana. It's kind of unfortunate, really - I really wanted to be uncertain as to whether Fidelias and his crew were actually good guys, but I was pretty much convinced of their alignment within a few chapters. If I had one wish for this book, it would be that Butcher had kept me wondering throughout the book. I mean, it's not impossible that the First Lord was deserving of being toppled, and that Amara had given her loyalties to the wrong man, but I stopped questioning that pretty quickly once Fidelias reached mustache-twirling levels. In general, there were some parts of the story that I really liked, some that left me cold, and a lot that had me playing \"Spot The Fantasy Trope\" drinking game. Some of the best scenes were fast-paced and full of action, scenes that Butcher has always been good at. Whether it's Tavi being chased by giant, heat-seeking spiders, or an all-out assault on a semi-impregnable fortress, Butcher does a very good job at controlling the action and making sure the reader knows what is going on where. On the other hand, a lot of the narration itself, especially in the beginning, is way too talky. Probably one of the hardest things for any epic fantasy writer to do is to introduce his or her world to the reader in a way that is not only clear, but that also makes sense from within the story. Often characters spell out details of history and culture that they already know, and really don't need to recap. It would be as though I called my friend back in the United States and said, \"As you know, President Obama, who was democratically elected by the people -\" \"Yes,\" my friend says, \"in a process that was established over two hundred years ago!\" \"Indeed,\" I say. \"President Obama - who is African-American - is thought be some to be Muslim!\" \"But he isn't! He is a Christian!\" \"That's right, a follower of that ancient religion founded on the teachings of Jesus Christ....\" It would be weird. But writers do this all the time, especially in Fantasy and Science Fiction. And you have to feel a little sorry for them - they have all this information to give us, and no natural way to do it, because the residents of that world already know it. That's why so many epic fantasies (this one included) tend to start in backwater, isolated regions, where people haven't seen a tax collector in generations, and why the protagonists tend to be young, working-class people. They are the only ones who would need this kind of history recap. It's one of the most common ways of filling the audience in, from Lord of the Rings to The Wheel of Time to Star Wars , and Butcher is not an exception. There is a lot of potential here, though, shining through all the weight that the first book of a fantasy series always has to bear. There's a complicated political system that we have barely begun to explore, and the way that people and furies interact is shown to be very flexible and creative. As we follow Tavi through the rest of the books, we'll get to see how someone without the ability to call on a fury might make his way in the world. Incidentally, that is a place where I have to give Butcher credit. I seriously expected Tavi to finally gain his furycrafting powers in a big way at some point in the book, but he never did. For all intents and purposes, Tavi is a cripple in this world, and that is going to be a serious obstacle in his future endeavors. It looks like Butcher's going to allow the boy to stay disabled, which makes for a far more interesting character in the end. Anyway, out of loyalty to an author I really like, and in the hopes that he will be able to break the shackles of the Fantasy Formula, I will continue with this series. Don't disappoint me, Jim.... ----------------------------------------------------------------- \"Two days ago, I had a lot more sense....\" - Tavi, Furies of Calderon , by Jim Butcher ----------------------------------------------------------------- ...more Zu meine m\u00fcndlichen Rezension: https://youtu.be/BO8cHz-0-6k Wir befinden uns hier im Reich Aleras. Einem Reich wo Ritter leben die m\u00e4chtige Elementare beherrschen, Stabilit\u00e4t und Wohlstand regieren. Doch es brodelt in den Reihen der F\u00fcrsten. Intrigen werden geschmiedet und eine Horde von Barbaren ist nicht weit. Auf einem der Wehrh\u00f6fe im Calderon Tal im \u00d6stlichen Teil Aleras, lebt der junge Tavi mit seinem Onkel und seiner Tante. Als dieser etwas sieht was er nicht sehen sollte, ist nicht nur sein Zu meine m\u00fcndlichen Rezension: https://youtu.be/BO8cHz-0-6k Wir befinden uns hier im Reich Aleras. Einem Reich wo Ritter leben die m\u00e4chtige Elementare beherrschen, Stabilit\u00e4t und Wohlstand regieren. Doch es brodelt in den Reihen der F\u00fcrsten. Intrigen werden geschmiedet und eine Horde von Barbaren ist nicht weit. Auf einem der Wehrh\u00f6fe im Calderon Tal im \u00d6stlichen Teil Aleras, lebt der junge Tavi mit seinem Onkel und seiner Tante. Als dieser etwas sieht was er nicht sehen sollte, ist nicht nur sein Leben in Gefahr. Er muss sich auf eine harte und hindernissreiche Reise begeben, denn an ihm h\u00e4ngt ab sofort das gesamte Schicksal aller die im Calderon Tal leben und weit \u00fcber dieses hinaus. Zum Autor. Jim Butcher kenne ich \u00fcber seine Harry Dresden Reihe und da ich ja ein gro\u00dfer Fan dieser Reihe bin, war ich sehr neugierig was er so in der High Fantasy zu bieten hat und ich wurde nicht entt\u00e4uscht. Der Auftakt dieser Geschichte und auch sein erster High Fantasy an den er sich gewagt hat, war spannend, abenteuerlich und magisch. Absolute Suchtgefahr, also f\u00fcr mich zumindest. Zu Anfangs war es zwar etwas schwierig sich einzufinden, da wir sehr viel Handlungsstr\u00e4nge haben und ich als Leser erst mal etwas \u00fcberfordert war mit den ganzen Elementaren und Charakteren. Aber dieses legte sich schnell und ich konnte die Geschichte genie\u00dfen. Was allerdings auch an dem interessanten, gut zu lesenden und bildlichen Schreibstil lag. Mir kam es oft so vor als w\u00e4re ich live im Geschehen und w\u00fcrde mitten drin stehen. Wenn so etwas passier, macht mir das Lesen am meisten Spa\u00df. Mit Alera wurde eine tolle Welt erschaffen die von der Beschaffenheit unsere nicht un\u00e4hnlich ist. Mal von der Magie und den Elementaren/Bewohnern abgesehen. Die Charaktere wurden sehr gut beschrieben und jeder f\u00fcr sich hat seine Pers\u00f6nlichkeit. Auch das Magiesystem konnte mich \u00fcberzeugen. Wir haben hier Elementare \u00fcber die Magie gewirkt wird und dieses habe ich in so einer Form noch nicht gelesen. Sonst hat man ja meist in der High Fantasy, Orks, Elfen, Gnome und \u00e4hnliches. Die Spannung kam definitiv nicht zu kurz. Der Leser wird hier des \u00d6fteren in Sicherheit gewiegt und auf der n\u00e4chsten Seite steht man wieder mitten drin im geschehen. Das hat mir sehr gut gefallen, die ausgewogene Abwechslung zwischen ruhigen Momenten, wo man einiges um das rund herum erf\u00e4hrt und spannenden Action reichen Szenen. Der Schluss ist in sich abgeschlossen und dennoch habe ich als Leser das Gef\u00fchl, dass dies nur die Ruhe vor dem eigentlichen Sturm war. Da kommt noch einiges auf uns zu. Denn das Reich Alera ist sehr gro\u00df und dieser erste Teil spielt ja nur im Calderon Tal, ein kleiner \u00f6stlicher Fleck des Ganzen. Kommen wir zum Cover. Dieses ist zwar recht schlicht gehalten aber dennoch ein Blickfang mit dem Baum darauf der einen Hirsch darstellt und ich vermute somit einen Elementar. Mir zumindest, gef\u00e4llt diese Neuauflage um einiges besser als die Alte. Ich empfehle dieses Buch ab 16 Jahren, da wir hier schon die ein oder andere etwas brutalere Szene haben. Vor allem die Schlachten sind nicht ohne Blutvergie\u00dfen und diversen K\u00f6rperteilen. Fazit: Ein toller Auftakt der Reihe. Spannung, Charaktere mit Pers\u00f6nlichkeit, ein mitreisendes Abenteuer und ein tolles Magie System. F\u00fcr mich eine absolute Suchtgefahr. Freue mich schon wahnsinnig auf den zweiten Band. Von mir gab es volle verdiente 5 von 5 Sternen. ...more 3.5 stars mmm not my favorite, found it hard to get through although I will try the next in the series. I finished all six volumes in Jim Butcher\u2019s Codex Alera series, so I\u2019m writing one review to cover the whole set. Regardless of which of the books this review is attached to, if you want to read this epic saga, start with the first book: Furies of Calderon . I\u2019ve also read all fourteen of the full-length books in his Dresden Files , and there are some interesting points of comparison. First and foremost, this is a well-crafted and engrossing tale \u2014 definitely worth reading. The tale follows the li I finished all six volumes in Jim Butcher\u2019s Codex Alera series, so I\u2019m writing one review to cover the whole set. Regardless of which of the books this review is attached to, if you want to read this epic saga, start with the first book: Furies of Calderon . I\u2019ve also read all fourteen of the full-length books in his Dresden Files , and there are some interesting points of comparison. First and foremost, this is a well-crafted and engrossing tale \u2014 definitely worth reading. The tale follows the life of young Tavi of the backwater province of Calderon over the course of several years, as his world is riven by existential threats and as he grows up and plays a larger and larger role. There really isn\u2019t anything fundamentally innovative here \u2014 most of the elements of the plot are echoed in other epic fantasies. The system of magic plays a large role and is well thought-out, but while it is fresh, it isn\u2019t radical. What makes Codex Alera an excellent addition to the fantasy shelf is in the story and its telling. The characters are engaging and adequately complex, the plot starts well and grows satisfyingly convoluted, and there is plenty of action to drive things forward. Because the story begins when Tavi is still only fifteen, the first volume is weaker than the sequels. His relationships and option for acting aren\u2019t as complex as they soon become, and his circle of acquaintances is also more limited. Starting with the second book, the scope of story broadens dramatically, with a wider range of characters getting in-depth treatment. Eventually, Butcher brings a small measure of romance into the mix, with even a little non-puritanical treatment of sex. Considering how poorly these last topics are dealt with in the Dresden Files , that\u2019s a nice change. Fans of the Dresden Files will still find some aspects of the tone and style very familiar. Since series is set in a completely fictional world (as opposed to contemporary Chicago), the ironic sarcasm is toned down dramatically, but there is still plenty around. All the clever characters still banter and tease, especially in times of mortal peril. This isn\u2019t exactly a rare device in genre fiction (and quite possibly anachronistic, given the rough approximation of feudalism, to the extent that can apply to fantasy), but Butcher does it pretty well. Codex Alera is a more mature effort, though. The earlier series is locked into a first-person narrative, for example, which means the voice of a single character is loud, flaws and all. Here, instead, there are several point-of-view characters, although unfortunately Butcher only lets us hear the thoughts of his protagonists. As limiting as that still is, there is more psychological depth. A major theme that grows more pressing through the series is the inevitable compromises a leader must make between opposing values, and how horrifying it is to be required to make decisions whose outcomes are all nauseating. Because the various viewpoint characters are at differing points in their understanding of this dynamic, Butcher can simultaneously illuminate the imperative for pragmatism and the revulsion towards apparent amorality. Unfortunately, there is also still a bit too much untimely introspection and moralising. The multiple viewpoints ameliorate this a bit, but we\u2019re still treated to characters pausing in the middle of a tense situation (a battle scene, for example, or a political debate) and expounding on their convictions \u2014\u00a0which aren\u2019t particularly interesting, since they are fairly predictable. This is another aspect that makes the first book weaker \u2014\u00a0because Tavi is still growing emotionally, there are too many opportunities for the author to indulge himself with the self-righteous attitudes of adolescence. Butcher has a long way to go before he can honestly portray real nuance in personality types. Judging by both series, I\u2019d bet that he\u2019s what I\u2019ll call a \u201cheartland liberal\u201d. His heroes are socially progressive multiculturalists, without much respect for faiths or creeds that require uncritical obedience. Religions are frequently portrayed benevolently, but religious leaders seem to be corrupt more often than other powerful characters. Butcher portrays political and military institutions in a somewhat more favorable light. While both have plenty of power-hungry and venal characters, he depicts kings and generals as responsible people struggling to do the right thing. Where the nuance is missing is in a genuinely sympathetic portrayal of those that don\u2019t fit his morality. For example, late in the series there is a conflict between the secular leaders of a military group and its religious leadership. The flaws of the latter group are quite plausible, but make things morally simplistic. Instead of having two groups both of which are honestly striving to do the right thing, one of the two has already made choices that signify their corruption. Even though Butcher doesn\u2019t fall into the common trap of casting the whole story into a good-versus-evil conflict ( a la the threat of Mordor, or the Dark Side of the Force, or the Death Eaters, et cetera ad nauseum ), he still relies on evil at the individual level. The good might be complex, but his villains really aren\u2019t. Granted, that\u2019s asking a lot. The much more experienced George R. R. Martin has humanized a few of his villains in his Song of Ice and Fire series , but he generally still makes it hard to like them. Martin\u2019s real strength is that he makes it harder to actually decide who is a villain. Butcher\u2019s stories are still morally unambiguous, even with his gradually growing skill at giving us characters that struggle with their choices in increasingly realistic ways. Oh, this might help. There was, frustratingly, no map in the editions I read until the final volume. But Butcher\u2019s website provides this one (click through to a larger version): The first book in the series was the fantasy selection for the Goodreads SciFi and Fantasy Book Club for the month of July 2010. Visit this link to see all of the discussions, group member reviews, etc. \u00ad ...more So...imagine you take Roman people, customs and building designs and then insert them in a magical world of strange creatures and savages. Then say you give every 'Roman' the ability to summon elemental spirits called Furies to 'craft' fire, water, earth, air, wood and metal. That's more or less what this book is. I had read Furies of Calderon before and not enjoyed it anywhere near as much as I did now. I think the type of fantasy had to grow on me. It was sort of G.R.R Martin in parts, sort of So...imagine you take Roman people, customs and building designs and then insert them in a magical world of strange creatures and savages. Then say you give every 'Roman' the ability to summon elemental spirits called Furies to 'craft' fire, water, earth, air, wood and metal. That's more or less what this book is. I had read Furies of Calderon before and not enjoyed it anywhere near as much as I did now. I think the type of fantasy had to grow on me. It was sort of G.R.R Martin in parts, sort of Wheel of Time in others and all unique. The story follows several parallel plotlines centred around a courier for the King of the land, a boy named Tavi who is furyless and his aunt and uncle. The basic plot involves treachery and invasion threat through savages. It's a well told story, in fact I would venture to argue that it's better written and told than the initial Dresden Files novel. Which is my only reference point for Jim Butcher's writing. If you're a fan of epic fantasy and liked Storm Front you'll likely enjoy this. All in all, definitely worth a read! ...more", "Title": "Furies of Calderon"},
