{"Comments": "''Sometimes people run... to see if you'll come after them.'' In book one, we see the girls opening themselves to the outside world . In book two, we see the girls opening their hearts . In this book, we see the girls opening their eyes to face danger .<---F> Things are getting serious</---F>. When someone tries to kidnap Macey, a fellow spy student at the Gallagher Academy, everything changes for the Gallagher girls. The girls are growing up. They\u2019re becoming more mature and more focused. It can easily be said tha ''Sometimes people run... to see if you'll come after them.'' In book one, we see the girls opening themselves to the outside world . In book two, we see the girls opening their hearts . In this book, we see the girls opening their eyes to face danger . Things are getting serious. When someone tries to kidnap Macey, a fellow spy student at the Gallagher Academy, everything changes for the Gallagher girls. The girls are growing up. They\u2019re becoming more mature and more focused. It can easily be said that this whole series is a coming-of-age story, among many other things. It\u2019s not one of my favourite series because it\u2019s interesting. Or unique. Or well-written. It\u2019s a favourite of mine because the characters remind me why I love reading in the first place. They\u2019re brave, strong, intelligent but the most important part is that they make us reflect upon ourselves. Are we the people we were always meant to be? They make us believe that we, too, could make a change in this world. That saving someone isn\u2019t about having the right gadgets or impeccable timing, but about knowing them and being there for them. These girls make me want to be a better person. For now, all I have left to say is that,<---M> in an alternate universe</---M>, I hope I\u2019m a Gallagher girl. It would make me proud and very, very happy. Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin\u2019 ...more <---A>Ally Carter</---A> is a great writer and this book just proves it. She weaves in the new mysteries and includes some old ones too, just to tie all of the books together. Once it comes down to the final showdown, I wouldn't be surprised to see all of the characters (<---B>spies or not</---B>) included in the battle. This series is fantastic, and I definitely recomend this book REREAD: July 27, 2015 I WAS INNOCENT ONCE. Initial Read: January 22, 2015 I ship Solomon with Abby a lot. and I also ship Macey and Preston. That's the only update, I could ever give you. Definitely an improvement over the first two books; it's basically what I'd wanted to see from the series to begin with: more actual spy action (that isn't focused almost completely on boys ), and an actual focus (somewhat) on Cammie's relationship with her friends, (specifically Macey, who is admittedly probably my favorite character in the series, so bonus points for that) which has thus far been rather superficial. The book is marred, however, by having dramatic scenes, particularly toward the Definitely an improvement over the first two books; it's basically what I'd wanted to see from the series to begin with: more actual spy action (that isn't focused almost completely on boys ), and an actual focus (somewhat) on Cammie's relationship with her friends, (specifically Macey, who is admittedly probably my favorite character in the series, so bonus points for that) which has thus far been rather superficial. The book is marred, however, by having dramatic scenes, particularly toward the end, that all scream \"This was so aVOIDable!\" had most of the adults actually, you know, decided to divulge what they knew with Cammie and Macey earlier on in the book. Bad things happening because of people in the know keeping secrets from other people who have a right to know to keep themselves safe always smacks of a cheap way to have a plot. Regardless of what Solomon and Mom say, if they honestly knew pretty much nothing more than Cammie all that time, then they're pretty sorry-ass spies and not really in a position to be protecting her, I'd think, especially considering that the girl has a huge habit of sneaking out of the school, on multiple occasions, and everyone knows it. Most likely they did know more but chose not to give the girls any clues for...what reasons, I can't think of any smart ones right now, considering the previous italicized and bolded segment above . Because they're still \"kids\"? Hello, these are girls that are trained to deal with highly sensitive government information and how to kill people using mundane, everyday objects. They're not really kids. Get your priorities straight. Actually, that's something that's kind of been bugging me about these books. The teachers at Gallagher are largely supposed to be some of the greatest spies of all time, but...personally, I've yet to see much proof that would lead me to agree. ...more I finished the galley for this book last week and I really enjoyed it. I think each book could have more in it though. I'm not sure what I mean about more, but the books are spread out too far and are too forgettable that if there was more to it, I wouldn't have to spend the first few chapters trying to remember what happened in the last book. Maybe it needs more action or more missions or something. That being said, I always enjoy the books when I am reading them and this one is no different. I I finished the galley for this book last week and I really enjoyed it. I think each book could have more in it though. I'm not sure what I mean about more, but the books are spread out too far and are too forgettable that if there was more to it, I wouldn't have to spend the first few chapters trying to remember what happened in the last book. Maybe it needs more action or more missions or something. That being said, I always enjoy the books when I am reading them and this one is no different. I love the idea of a spy school for girls and I like the main character very much. ...more I hope I can wait for this book to come out. I am sooooooooooo excited! Ally Carter is a great writer, and everyone should read the Gallagher Girls series. I swear, this series gets better and better. So I definitely wasn't disappointed with Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover. The plot gets more interesting and it definitely has more action. I mean, a kidnapping attempt on the daughter of the governor, soon-to-be, VP of the US? Yea, action packed novel for sure. And not only is there an kidnapping attempt, who are the people behind it? And who exactly are they trying to kidnap? The characters are definitely more well-defined. Cammie seems to be a lot mo I swear, this series gets better and better. So I definitely wasn't disappointed with Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover. The plot gets more interesting and it definitely has more action. I mean, a kidnapping attempt on the daughter of the governor, soon-to-be, VP of the US? Yea, action packed novel for sure. And not only is there an kidnapping attempt, who are the people behind it? And who exactly are they trying to kidnap? The characters are definitely more well-defined. Cammie seems to be a lot more mature in this novel and her relationship with Zach is more confusing as ever which only adds an element of mystery and suspense to Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover. Cammie's best friends are, as always, her loyal sidekicks. So they're always a refreshing element to the plot especially with their obvious different activities and specialties. The writing style is also a lot more flowing. There's definitely not as many parenthesis (I'm really against it, if you couldn't tell. So against it that in fact, I use them too! :) and if there were, it didn't bother me as much. My favorite part is probably the disguises. I mean, you get to read about Cammie dressing up as a hooker! How amazing is that? It's totally entertaining and hilarious. Plus, you get a lot of advice in spy stuff too which is always helpful. :) The ending is kind of a cliff hanger but then again, it shows that there's a definite continuation. If there isn't...I'm gonna sue! Hahaha. Overall, I can't wait for the next installment of the series! ...more N\u00e3o estava nada nos meus planos ler esta s\u00e9rie agora mas estou meio que viciada! \"Quem v\u00ea caras n\u00e3o v\u00ea espi\u00f5es\" teve o papel dif\u00edcil de come\u00e7ar a grande est\u00f3ria que \u00e9 desenvolvida at\u00e9 ao final do \u00faltimo livro. Aqui a vida de Cammie complica-se ao ponto de quererem mat\u00e1-la! Tamb\u00e9m s\u00e3o introduzidas novas personagens como o Preston que aqui mesmo n\u00e3o tendo grande relev\u00e2ncia, certamente tem o seu destaque nos \u00faltimos livros da s\u00e9rie. \u00c9 engra\u00e7ado como a autora consegue explorar todas as personagens e N\u00e3o estava nada nos meus planos ler esta s\u00e9rie agora mas estou meio que viciada! \"Quem v\u00ea caras n\u00e3o v\u00ea espi\u00f5es\" teve o papel dif\u00edcil de come\u00e7ar a grande est\u00f3ria que \u00e9 desenvolvida at\u00e9 ao final do \u00faltimo livro. Aqui a vida de Cammie complica-se ao ponto de quererem mat\u00e1-la! Tamb\u00e9m s\u00e3o introduzidas novas personagens como o Preston que aqui mesmo n\u00e3o tendo grande relev\u00e2ncia, certamente tem o seu destaque nos \u00faltimos livros da s\u00e9rie. \u00c9 engra\u00e7ado como a autora consegue explorar todas as personagens e desenvolv\u00ea-las ao ponto de a sua presen\u00e7a na s\u00e9rie \u00e9 linear e n\u00e3o irregular. Seja a m\u00e3e de Cammie, os professores ou as amigas, todas elas t\u00eam um papel fundamental na constru\u00e7\u00e3o do enredo. \u00c9 importante e agrad\u00e1vel que a autora n\u00e3o tenha centrado toda a aten\u00e7\u00e3o na Cammie e que os la\u00e7os de fam\u00edlia e amigos estejam sempre l\u00e1. http://algodaodoceparaocerebro.blogsp... ...more <---C>Cammie Morgan</---C> is back in her most exciting adventure yet. Roommate Macey McHenry's father is running for vice-president and Macey is a target. After an incident on the campaign trail when Cammie and Macey barely manage to escape an attack on their lives, a new operative is brought to Gallagher Girls Academy to watch out for Macey. Cammie, Liz and Bex are told not to worry, but when have they ever followed the rules before? And why does Cammie keep seeing Zach in strange places? Does he still lik Cammie Morgan is back in her most exciting adventure yet. Roommate Macey McHenry's father is running for vice-president and Macey is a target. After an incident on the campaign trail when Cammie and Macey barely manage to escape an attack on their lives, a new operative is brought to Gallagher Girls Academy to watch out for Macey. Cammie, Liz and Bex are told not to worry, but when have they ever followed the rules before? And why does Cammie keep seeing Zach in strange places? Does he still like her or was their kiss in book 2 a one-time thing? I loved this book just as much as the first two, I'd Tell You I Love You But Then I'd Have to Kill You and Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy. I highly recommend this series for middle and high school students. Ally Carter writes books that are fun to read; I can't wait for book 4 in the Gallagher Girls series! ...more Wow, these books are truly amazing, I never get bored because there's always something happening and a lot to figure out. To be honest, most of the times I have no idea of what is about to happen and that's why I find it so interesting. This particular book was so OMG, I'm still shocked and I really need to read the next one to know the truth. I mean, what the hell is happening??? Now, about Cammie and Zach: I think they're very cute and they have to stay together in the end, but he has so many se Wow, these books are truly amazing, I never get bored because there's always something happening and a lot to figure out. To be honest, most of the times I have no idea of what is about to happen and that's why I find it so interesting. This particular book was so OMG, I'm still shocked and I really need to read the next one to know the truth. I mean, what the hell is happening??? Now, about Cammie and Zach: I think they're very cute and they have to stay together in the end, but he has so many secrets and he's so confusing, gee. And Abby and Joe... WHAT?? They're also really cute because he's different with her, it's like he's got a heart after all. All in all, it was a great book and I'm dying to read the next one! ...more These books are seriously getting better and better. The characters are as kickass and amazing as always and the overall plot is so intriguing. I have so many questions and I can't wait to see how it all pans out. This one was certainly a lot darker than the first few and it was perfect. Seriously my favourite so far. I forget how darn, short these books are - only 260 pages! Definitely an improvement from the second book. ^_^ 3.5 stars! I really like the progression of this series. When I read YA I usually do it unthinkingly, by which I mean I read YA like I would read any other book for which I am the target audience. The Gallagher Girls series is one of those things, though, where I am constantly made aware of the fact that I am absolutely not the target audience. From a bookselling perspective, I'd definitely recommend these to a young reader making the transition from MG to teen; the series may get darker later on, but as of book three the series is pretty sanitized, e When I read YA I usually do it unthinkingly, by which I mean I read YA like I would read any other book for which I am the target audience. The Gallagher Girls series is one of those things, though, where I am constantly made aware of the fact that I am absolutely not the target audience. From a bookselling perspective, I'd definitely recommend these to a young reader making the transition from MG to teen; the series may get darker later on, but as of book three the series is pretty sanitized, easy-to-read, and quick. So: I recognize the particular use and place of books like these. I just feel like, even with that fact acknowledged, <+++>Don't Judge a Girl by Her Cover</+++> is just bad. I get it. It's book three in a six-book series, and not every plot line can be resolved. That said, it's impossibly frustrating to read an entire novel and get nothing resolved. This doesn't feel like a complete book, and honestly, the information and action that occurs in here could pretty easily be condensed into half a book. I get each novel is supposed to cover a semester at a time, but when the author fails to make the semester interesting then maybe it's time to consider a different format? Like, a lot of my objections are personal taste: where other people might find Zach cool and intriguing I find him and insufferable prig. The adults are unlikable and strangely incompetent for super-spies. Cammie's friends are impressively two-dimensional. The writing itself isn't bad, but it's boring. Rather than finding different ways to write scenes, Carter is overly reliant on almost this memetic shorthand: \"Cammie knows 14 languages but doesn't know what to say,\" &c. &c. Once that line is cute, but it gets dropped obnoxiously often. The action is unclear and difficult to follow, which may have more to do with my engagement with the text than the author's craft. That said, these books have been surprisingly slow reads despite being 250 or so pages and also about spies. I guess the problem is there's very little spying. Hardly anything happens, and whenever the characters act for themselves it almost always ends terribly. The school structure of the books doesn't help; I don't care about their classes, I don't care about their teachers, and I really, really, really do not care about boys. Like, the whole \"omfg what do boys think??\" thing gets super annoying. I hated it in Wheel of Time and I hate it here. Like I said, though, I am obviously not the target, and I'm glad that these books make other people so happy! I was really expecting to at least enjoy this series since I like the author's other work so much, but no dice I guess. ...more This review is also posted on my blog, In The Good Books . When Cammie visits her roommate and friend, Macey, in Boston, where her father's being nominated for vice president, she expects an exciting end to summer break. Excitement she gets, when she and Macey find themselves in a kidnapper's plot. Luckily, escaping is just one the things they do best, as students of the Gallagher Academy For Exceptional Young Women - a spy school in disguise. But soon they find out that it isn't over yet, and as m This review is also posted on my blog, In The Good Books . When Cammie visits her roommate and friend, Macey, in Boston, where her father's being nominated for vice president, she expects an exciting end to summer break. Excitement she gets, when she and Macey find themselves in a kidnapper's plot. Luckily, escaping is just one the things they do best, as students of the Gallagher Academy For Exceptional Young Women - a spy school in disguise. But soon they find out that it isn't over yet, and as more attempts are made, they wonder if Macey was the real target. Like the Gallagher Girls book before it, Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover was fast-faced and fun to read. Written in a no-nonsense prose, there was constant action and mystery, and was completely captivating - so much so that I read it on Christmas morning. There aren't a lot of spy books out there targeted to a young adult audience, and this series is the only I've read in the genre, but it's enough to make me want to branch out and find more books like it. A boarding school full of female spies-in-training - a premise so unique and exciting you can't help but pick it up. Cammie is a strong, clever and loyal protagonist. She spends the majority of this book trying to protect her friend without a second thought, outsmarting secret agents, and unraveling mysteries. Though, in spite of all that, she's relatable. She worries about her friends, she has boy trouble, and misses her dead father. She's a dynamic protagonist that you can't help but feel endeared and sympathetic to. The plot was cleverly constructed, with problems from past books weaved into the story and with new ones arising. It was at all times unpredictable - every time I think I can guess what's about to happen, something else entirely occurs. The romance between Zach and Cammie was mysterious and compelling. The broody, mysterious stock character that always weasels his way into paranormal romances can't hold a flame to the enigma that is Zach. I mean, he's a spy. His intentions throughout the book aren't clear, but he still feels trustworthy. I give Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover 4 out of 5. ...more Hooooooowwwww???? How could Ally Carter make this my favorite book in this series so far??? This book was so exciting, and I think the reason I like it best out of all three is that it had more of a mystery feel to it, and the romance was less. Plus, it gave all of my characters awesome moments and chances to show off their awesome spy skills. A few of the characters did dumb things (*cough* CAMMIE) but I've kind of realized that \"doing dumb things\" is part of Cammie's character. Really loved th Hooooooowwwww???? How could Ally Carter make this my favorite book in this series so far??? This book was so exciting, and I think the reason I like it best out of all three is that it had more of a mystery feel to it, and the romance was less. Plus, it gave all of my characters awesome moments and chances to show off their awesome spy skills. A few of the characters did dumb things (*cough* CAMMIE) but I've kind of realized that \"doing dumb things\" is part of Cammie's character. Really loved this book in the series, but THAT CLIFFHANGER THO. Series predictions (read at your own risk) (although I am completely guessing here and you're probably fine just reading them) (also, if you've read farther than me, please DO NOT comment below and spoil things ;) ) (okay, I'm done): (view spoiler) [Cammie might actually be a descendant of Gillian Gallagher ON HER DAD'S SIDE. Or the people are seeking her for revenge because of something that her mom or dad or Aunt Abby did. Or the Circle of Cavan simply wants to meet the famous Cammie Morgan and offer her a sponsorship and a free trip to Hawaii. (This last one may not be serious.) (hide spoiler) ] ...more Covert Operations Report By Anna Sk (hereafter referred to as \"The Operative\" ) Phase 3. At this point of the mission, the Operative would like to state that (simply stated for everyone) shit has started to hit the fan . A change of scenery for the Assets and an addition of new Assets (particularly Abigail Morgan and Preston Winters) has brought a more serious and dangerous vibe on the mission. Main target in this mission was Asset McHenry (that the Operative managed to understand better in Phase 3 a Covert Operations Report By Anna Sk (hereafter referred to as \"The Operative\" ) Phase 3. At this point of the mission, the Operative would like to state that (simply stated for everyone) shit has started to hit the fan . A change of scenery for the Assets and an addition of new Assets (particularly Abigail Morgan and Preston Winters) has brought a more serious and dangerous vibe on the mission. Main target in this mission was Asset McHenry (that the Operative managed to understand better in Phase 3 and would like to see her with Asset Winters). Asset Goode was sadly MIA for most of the phase which resulted in the disappointment of both the Operative and Asset Morgan. Additional input: none. Proceed to Phase 4 . ...more These books. I am in love with these books. They're so much fun with the perfect amount of suspense to keep you reading until the very end! There were some scenes that even made me teary eyed. And the last few chapters were crazy. I loved how this was mostly centered around Macey since there wasn't much of her in the previous book. I still can't believe I disliked Macey in the beginning because she's honestly one of my favourite characters. And Then Abby! I loved her!! And I'm excited to see if s These books. I am in love with these books. They're so much fun with the perfect amount of suspense to keep you reading until the very end! There were some scenes that even made me teary eyed. And the last few chapters were crazy. I loved how this was mostly centered around Macey since there wasn't much of her in the previous book. I still can't believe I disliked Macey in the beginning because she's honestly one of my favourite characters. And Then Abby! I loved her!! And I'm excited to see if she will make more appearances. The dynamic of the friendships between the Gallagher Girls (mostly between Cammie, Bex, Liz and Macey) is something I adore about this Series. And also the relationship between Cammie and Rachel (Mother/daughter) is something I'm looking forward to in the next books. Also I WANT MORE ZACH. I hope to get more scene with Zach in the next books! ...more Looks like things are finally looking up for Cammie Morgan. And I mean that but I don't, because Cammie's life is slowly becoming a clusterfucks of whodunit, and I love it. That's right. Ally Carter is starting to tighten the ribbons on the present that is the Gallagher Girls series, and I can't wait for the bow to finally be tied. Plots are coming together, characters are appearing into new light, and secrets are starting to be unearthed. Plus Zach... what a dream boat. UuU give me the next book NoW!!!11! (pls) THIS ONE'S MY FAVORITE SO FAR!!!! i love preston i loved the action and the mystery! but like when do we get to know about zach im tired of his secrets I really missed the Buffy the Vampire Slayer refetences in this one. I'm really enjoying living spy school through Cammie and her friends. Reasons to love the Gallagher Girls series: - with every book this series gets more intriguing - the plot is so interesting - all the characters are kickass - the friendships are just fantastic - cute boys everywhere - character development I can't wait to read more! This book was amazing like the other two books. The book always had suspense and you never knew who Cammie would meet next. I was sad for Macey because she could never go outside without people following her since her father could be the next vice president. I can't wait to read the fourth book of the series. Don't Judge A Girl by her Cover turned out of a bit of serious. There was less of school drama and classes, and more of Boston, Ohio and D.C. I love Gallagher Academy and the regular life there, but so many outings and so much risk on life wasn't there before. So, it felt like a new territory for me and Cammie as well. \u201cI thought about how there are two types of secrets: the kind you\u00a0want\u00a0to keep in, and the kind you don't\u00a0dare\u00a0to let out Have I ever mentioned before how much I adore Joe Solo Don't Judge A Girl by her Cover turned out of a bit of serious. There was less of school drama and classes, and more of Boston, Ohio and D.C. I love Gallagher Academy and the regular life there, but so many outings and so much risk on life wasn't there before. So, it felt like a new territory for me and Cammie as well. \u201cI thought about how there are two types of secrets: the kind you\u00a0want\u00a0to keep in, and the kind you don't\u00a0dare\u00a0to let out Have I ever mentioned before how much I adore Joe Solomon. Oh, I love him and his classes. He\u2019s such a kick-ass teacher and all his tricks during the CoveOps are brilliant. (Not to forget that he\u2019s really hot!). This guy wasn\u2019t on my favourite people list when the first book began but slowly and steadily he has made his place in my heart. Enough of swooning, moving on. \u201cThere are six reasons anyone does anything: Love. Faith. Greed. Boredom. Fear...\" he said, ticking them off on his fingers; but he lingered on the last, drawing a deep breath before he said, \"Revenge.\u201d It was heart breaking seeing Macey like that throughout the book. It was hard for her, and even harder for Cammie to see her like that. Abigail Cameron wasn't that amazing, if you ask me. Yeah, the girls admired her but me - Not. (What was the need of kissing Joe Solomon at the end btw? She could have kissed Mr. Smith and I wouldn\u2019t have cared, but Joe. I do care.) We are introduced to the Circle of Cavan and its history. Why they wanted Macey seemed reliable enough to me but then that anti-climatic scene at the end left me with lots of questions. And how come Zach is there every time Cammie leaves the Academy. That guy seems suspicious though I have full trust on him if Cammie is considered. There was enough of action and drama; still the book couldn't exactly hold me like the previous ones. Yes, I liked it as usual but not more than the previous two. Fingers crossed for the 4th one - Only the Good Spy Young. ...more I really look forward to new books in this series. I'm a bit addicted to them if I'm honest and this was another fun installment. When Cammie visits her friend Macey in Boston things don't exactly go to plan. Unless the plan was being ambushed! Or finding themselves part of an attempted kidnap they barely manage to escape. Desperately wanting to help keep their friend safe, Cammie, Liz and Bex use their spy skills to find the truth... I really like how the author manages to give us a completely di I really look forward to new books in this series. I'm a bit addicted to them if I'm honest and this was another fun installment. When Cammie visits her friend Macey in Boston things don't exactly go to plan. Unless the plan was being ambushed! Or finding themselves part of an attempted kidnap they barely manage to escape. Desperately wanting to help keep their friend safe, Cammie, Liz and Bex use their spy skills to find the truth... I really like how the author manages to give us a completely different story each time but at the same time continuing the overall arc. This time it focuses on Macey and Cammie, but the others are on fine form too. I found Macey's storyline really interesting - she forced into the limelight because of her father's political campaign and you can see how it has an effect on her. I loved Cammie in this one. She's very protective of her friends and determined to be there for Macey. I love Cammie's voice - it's the trademark of the series for me - so I love having the story told from her point of view. Aunt Abby makes an appearance and I really liked her - although I wasn't sure if I completely trusted her. However, I completely agree with what she says about Mr Solomon! Someone really did have to do it! Zach is back and I adored the scenes between him and Cammie. I think my only complaint was that there wasn't enough Zach - I wanted more! This time though I have no idea if we should trust him or not. Also, I'm slightly worried about whether I should trust Mr Solomon, which will break my heart if proved true as I love him! Again the were surprises and things I didn't see coming. I was left with even more questions making the next book a must read. I need to know what is going on! I pretty much inhale these books as soon as I get my hands on them and I can't wait for the next! Great fun and totally addictive! ...more Another completely and utterly awesome addition to the Gallagher Girl series! Love this one! We get to know Macy so well in this book and, honestly, I loved it because it really didn't take away from Cammie at all. Oh, and then we realize that...........oh, I can't say that. It would give *everything* away. Just know that Cammie is awesome. I really liked the incorporation of the Gallagher Academy classes - we hear the girls' worries about upcoming tests and are a part of their classes sometimes Another completely and utterly awesome addition to the Gallagher Girl series! Love this one! We get to know Macy so well in this book and, honestly, I loved it because it really didn't take away from Cammie at all. Oh, and then we realize that...........oh, I can't say that. It would give *everything* away. Just know that Cammie is awesome. I really liked the incorporation of the Gallagher Academy classes - we hear the girls' worries about upcoming tests and are a part of their classes sometimes - and events happening outside the Academy with Macy. Cammie, Liz, and Bex are sneaky again with their crazy antics! We're introduced to new characters you're going to absolutely love! Oh, and Mr. Solomon is at his best with his classes in town. I love his classes. They're so entertaining and interesting. Zach is so frustrating in this book! Appearing at the most inopportune moments! And then with NO explanation whatsoever! No wonder Cammmie is so frustrated with him! All he does is points to himself and say \"spy\". As if *that* explains anything! And the ending?! Holy. Cow. Probably the book with the worst cliff hanger in the entire series! I just DIED. Seriously. I was thrown off my feet! Between Zach, Macy, someone new, Cammie, Mr. Solomon, the Circle. Wow. I was FREAKING OUT! Okay? Just be prepared! I cannot express how awesome the ending is (not that the rest isn't awesome, too!)! With frustrating (and totally spy hot) guys, amazing friends, and page turning twists and turns, don't hesitate for this book! Go read it! Sexual Content: Mild kissing. Language/Profanity: None. Violence: Some fighting. ...more Wow! Now THAT is a book with substance. Seriously, I can't believe how good this was. The other books in the series just start off light and preppy, so I never thought they were \"serious\". But this book... This book introduced danger from the very beginning. I guess that it could represent the fact that the girls are older, therefore wiser, therefore could get into more danger? Nevertheless, Ally Carter found a way to seamlessly weave all the conflicts of the past books, and then add a ton more Wow! Now THAT is a book with substance. Seriously, I can't believe how good this was. The other books in the series just start off light and preppy, so I never thought they were \"serious\". But this book... This book introduced danger from the very beginning. I guess that it could represent the fact that the girls are older, therefore wiser, therefore could get into more danger? Nevertheless, Ally Carter found a way to seamlessly weave all the conflicts of the past books, and then add a ton more with this one. Ally Carter also never fails to surprise me in the way that she can introduce more and more characters and yet make them all so unique. I could really hear all of their voices in my heads and imagine them clearly. Abby was so fun, and I can't help but feel swoony towards Mr. Solomon... And of course Zach! I'm so glad that Cammie had some really great development in the book. She's 16 now, so she needs to be more grown up. It's great to see when a character \"grows up\" before your eyes. Now, I have to say this, because I got really annoyed by this fact. Who in their right mind would call their daughter \"Cameron Ann Morgan Cameron \"?! Her first name and her second last name are exactly the same! I just seems ridiculous to me. To sum everything up, if you're looking for light, quick and entertaining reads, you should look into this series. (A spy school, how awesome is that?!) 5 stars. ...more Cammie has been through a lot of boy problems (technically 2) and is now in her junior year at the school for Gallagher Girls. Now she and her friend Marcey are in danger. The 3rd book was more interesting then the last two, but it is still frustrating to read. Knowing that's Cammie's personality and that's how she narrates, it still bothers me how she thinks she is all that. There were also a lot of confusions because of the lack of details. One point she may be describing the fight but I could Cammie has been through a lot of boy problems (technically 2) and is now in her junior year at the school for Gallagher Girls. Now she and her friend Marcey are in danger. The 3rd book was more interesting then the last two, but it is still frustrating to read. Knowing that's Cammie's personality and that's how she narrates, it still bothers me how she thinks she is all that. There were also a lot of confusions because of the lack of details. One point she may be describing the fight but I couldn't imagine the setting. I like how the romance part is kicking in. It's very mysterious which is fun. She likes Zach but Zach may not be what he seems. I believe Carter did a good job by making the series narrate in third person. It really took care of the mystery romance part. She only allowed us to know how Cammie felt and no one else. I do recommend this book since it is an easy read. You either like it or don't. I recommend starting at book 1 and continuing in sequence. Each book always talks about something from the previous books. ...more I've got to say, the Gallagher Series is really fun. There are some flaws, but overall, it's such a great series. In this installment, Cammie and Co. investigate about an attack on the Macey. It's fun and there's that wonderful awkwardness of these teenage girls who don't really get the outside world. Things are starting to connect now too. I love the relationship between Abby and Cammie, and the romance is really cute too. I just don't know what happened to Josh, if he's even coming back. I also I've got to say, the Gallagher Series is really fun. There are some flaws, but overall, it's such a great series. In this installment, Cammie and Co. investigate about an attack on the Macey. It's fun and there's that wonderful awkwardness of these teenage girls who don't really get the outside world. Things are starting to connect now too. I love the relationship between Abby and Cammie, and the romance is really cute too. I just don't know what happened to Josh, if he's even coming back. I also love all the girl power and all the friendship. These girls are tiiiiiight. They're all unique and it's really fun to see th There are still so many holes in the story. EVERYWHERE. However, there is the start of an overarching story. I can start to see it with this secret organization. Overall, <+++>Don't Judge a Girl by Her Cover</+++> was a cute book that moves the story along. A good installment. ...more", "Title": "Don't Judge a Girl by Her Cover"},
