{"Comments": "I should divulge that I formerly lived along <+++>Cane River</+++> (<---B>the in-town part</---B>) and was given a free copy by our local National Park unit at a public symposium. I started the book that night at bedtime, thinking I'd read for an hour or so, per usual. Well I was up until well after 4:00 a.m. finishing this thing! When I showed up slightly bleary-eyed for class the next day,<---M> one of our observant grad students (thanks</---M>, Melissa!) asked whether I'd been up all night finishing \"the Book of Crack\" as she ca I should divulge that I formerly lived along <+++>Cane River</+++> (the in-town part) and was given a free copy by our local National Park unit at a public symposium. I started the book that night at bedtime, thinking I'd read for an hour or so, per usual. Well I was up until well after 4:00 a.m. finishing this thing! When I showed up slightly bleary-eyed for class the next day, one of our observant grad students (thanks, Melissa!) asked whether I'd been up all night finishing \"the Book of Crack\" as she called it. So true--you just couldn't put it down. It was a wonderful story--kind of an Alex Hailey's _Roots_ set along the region surrounding Cane River in northwest Louisiana (roughly spanning Natchitoches to Cloutierville). For anyone not from the region (as with Mom and mother-in-law who both received and loved their copies), it's a great introduction to a region and to the complexities of Louisiana's creole communities. And the fact that the author wrote the book as something of a voyage of discovery of her own family roots, just makes it that much more bittersweet after you become so invested in characters from whom she is actually descended. This is a beautiful book about a beautiful and complicated place. ...<---F>more What a gorgeous novel</---F>. The key thing is, is that this novel was based on <---A>Lalita Tademy</---A>'s own family history. She calls it fiction, though, because she had to elaborate and add rich detail to the simple stories she had been told of her grandmothers before her. What shocked me most about this novel was that it was Tademy's first. Her writing seems to reflect years and years of writing before her, it flows so well and the language is so rich. You can't criticize her characters, because they are real What a gorgeous novel. The key thing is, is that this novel was based on Lalita Tademy's own family history. She calls it fiction, though, because she had to elaborate and add rich detail to the simple stories she had been told of her grandmothers before her. What shocked me most about this novel was that it was Tademy's first. Her writing seems to reflect years and years of writing before her, it flows so well and the language is so rich. You can't criticize her characters, because they are real, even so she added layers on to them that just increased their likeability. It was funny, because I didn't think I was going to like the fact that the book followed every generation closely. I thought I would bond with Suzette and feel slight resentment when her daughter and granddaughters story came up, but I didn't. Somehow I loved it. I loved it because the mothers and grandmothers weren't shoved to the side when the story switched focus, which is further reflection on how Tademy's family thinks of their elders, especially their grandmother's. This book is a surprisingly enjoyable novel, and I'd say if the story doesn't sound like something you would want to read, give it a try anyway. I really don't need to say too much about this novel because it doesn't need much. Everything about it is great, and really, that's all I need to say. ...more If you are looking for historical fiction that focuses on the lives and struggles of African American women, I highly recommend picking up Cane River. Lalita Tademy has turned her family story into a fictionalized account of three generations of women who have each faced physical and emotional trauma with strength, dedication to family, and a burning need to move their families forward. When faced with no choice but to physically submit themselves to the men who hold the power of life and death If you are looking for historical fiction that focuses on the lives and struggles of African American women, I highly recommend picking up Cane River. Lalita Tademy has turned her family story into a fictionalized account of three generations of women who have each faced physical and emotional trauma with strength, dedication to family, and a burning need to move their families forward. When faced with no choice but to physically submit themselves to the men who hold the power of life and death over them, each woman ultimately does what she feels is best for the resulting children. The means by which the family is moved forward is by bleaching the line through the generations. This process isn't truly by choice, but these strong women use whatever advantages that they can grasp for their children. Suzette and Philomene never actually have a choice in who the father of their children will be, but their perseverance, resourcefulness, and pure grit is impressive. Having modern sensibilities, it is upsetting to know that the skin color helped to define the hopes of a mother for her children. Yet, women with no power over their own bodies and futures had to maneuver and manipulate advancement as best they could. It was Emily's story, the last generation delved into in Cane River, that was the most heartbreaking for me. Emily had a taste of love, even though it was a tarnished one. Emily's desire to just be without being harassed for simply existing, and being audacious enough to attract and acquire love from a white man, was what made her an even larger target for savage mistreatment. Tademy actually had me feeling sorry for a man who couldn't defend a family that he knew would never be accepted. Even though I felt compassion for Joseph, his arrogance and sense of entitlement is what led to his downfall and eventually cost him everything. Both Emily and Joseph were naive in their belief that they could be left alone to live as they wished, but especially Joseph. As a white male living in their community after the Civil War, he should have know that he could not be a successful businessman and expect others not to balk at the idea of him having a woman with even a trace of black blood. The ending of the book had me upset knowing that after all that Emily had endured and survived, society still made sure that she knew her place. However, toward the end there is a bit of joy given to me via the choice of Emily's son T.O. to break the line by his choice of a wife. It was a step that not only set him apart as a man who thinks for himself, but also a step to break the cycle that T.O. saw as destroying his own sense of self worth. Ya'll....There is so much to experience in Cane River! I generally haven't had the best of luck with Oprah Book Club picks, however Cane River was a home run for me and is going on my favorite reads list. I am so glad that I grabbed this one when I saw it in my local Goodwill for only a dollar. Spending a dollar and discovering a new favorite read is about as good as it gets! Reading this one makes me wish that I belonged to an organized book club so that I could discuss all of the issues and feelings that Tademy evoked. This was a hard review to rein in. It would be so easy to write a review on each woman featured! Cane River is a very well paced read that will hit you in all of the feels and provides food for thought long after you close the cover. I am now going to have to get a copy of Red River, which focuses on the Tademy side of the family. You can find more from me at \u2022(\u2665).\u2022*Monlatable Book Reviews*\u2022.(\u2665)\u2022 http://www.monlatablereviews.com/ ...more I was a little cautious entering this book. First off, it's an Oprah book choice and those are generally a bit on the depressing side. Secondly, what I knew of the plot of the book was that it was about a family of women slaves during the Civil War era....which could be depresing, graphic, etc. I was pleasantly surprised by this book. Granted, some of the situations that happen to the family of women in the book are sad, and make me frustrated that people were ever treated that way, the overall I was a little cautious entering this book. First off, it's an Oprah book choice and those are generally a bit on the depressing side. Secondly, what I knew of the plot of the book was that it was about a family of women slaves during the Civil War era....which could be depresing, graphic, etc. I was pleasantly surprised by this book. Granted, some of the situations that happen to the family of women in the book are sad, and make me frustrated that people were ever treated that way, the overall tone of the book, for me, was one of hope. These women hoped for a better future for their children. They perservered through all of the hard times with hope in their hearts, along with some other well deserved emotions. Another pleasant surprise with this book is that it is not graphic - there were plenty of times when some white master came to the slave women and the author could have let these situations be pretty awful - but she didn't. It was a relief to not have to cringe when I was reading. ...more I come from two long lines of strong women. They survived the hard life of settling in the mountains of Southwest Virginia, the pain and loss of childbirth, disease, economic hardship, the Depression, the helplessness of dealing with alcoholism and many other tragedies and difficulties of life. But none of them, to my knowledge, had to suffer the indignities of slavery. Lalita Tademy's book, Cane River, tells in fictional form the stories of four generations of the women in her family. The story, I come from two long lines of strong women. They survived the hard life of settling in the mountains of Southwest Virginia, the pain and loss of childbirth, disease, economic hardship, the Depression, the helplessness of dealing with alcoholism and many other tragedies and difficulties of life. But none of them, to my knowledge, had to suffer the indignities of slavery. Lalita Tademy's book, Cane River, tells in fictional form the stories of four generations of the women in her family. The story, focusing on the women that raised children, mostly by white men, in rural Louisiana during the years before the Civil War and into the 1930s, brings home the true tragedies of slavery. The first woman of the family to come to Cane River was Elizabeth, torn from her two children in Virginia and shipped South, still a slave with no control over her fate or the fates of her children. Generation after generation struggle with the truth of being of dark skin in the South, as her daughters and granddaughters bear children to white plantation owners against their will, finally using the desires of these white men against them to better the lives of their children. The great tragedy for me in this book was that these wonderful women, each beautiful and strong, was unable to realize the glory of their color. Being dark was a burden, and lightening the skin of the next generation became an unacknowledged goal for Suzette, Philomene and Emily as they fought for security in white society for their children. Being able to \"pass\" as white made life easier, but the resentment that built up in the community against the white men who lived openly and acknowledged their children by these black women shattered lives. Tademy's search for her heritage began in a resentment against the attitudes of the earlier generation against dark skin. What she discovered was that each generation dealt with prejudice and hardship in the only way they knew, and her respect for these women and their difficult choices becomes a wonderful story of their lives. Although this is fiction, there is a lot of truth in this portrayal. The story doesn't end with a \"happy ever after\", and it sometimes seems to me that the struggle is still as hard as ever. It's long past time that we learned lessons from our tragic history. ...more Cane River is a wonderful novel, which I highly recommend. I learned a lot about the slave/plantation/small farmer experience of Creole Louisiana. Especially interesting are the details about the gens de couleur libre and the long line of interracial unions (both forced and chosen) among Tademy's ancestors. An important thread that runs from beginning to end in Cane River is the impact of skin color biases within the black community, and Tademy's family specifically. San Francisco Bay Area native Cane River is a wonderful novel, which I highly recommend. I learned a lot about the slave/plantation/small farmer experience of Creole Louisiana. Especially interesting are the details about the gens de couleur libre and the long line of interracial unions (both forced and chosen) among Tademy's ancestors. An important thread that runs from beginning to end in Cane River is the impact of skin color biases within the black community, and Tademy's family specifically. San Francisco Bay Area native Lalita Tademy has a unique story to tell about her family lineage, and I'm glad she took the time to research and write this novel. She convincingly portrays strong, interesting, complex women -- starting with her great-great-great-grandmother Suzette, whose nine-year-old fictionalized character launches the novel in 1834. Lalita Tademy brings a cast of memorable characters to life, with a great literary flair. I selected this novel for the February 2009 meeting of my library-based Mostly Literary Fiction Book Discussion Group. Book group participants described the book as a \"page turner,\" and recounted many passages that moved them to tears. Lalita Tademy visited the Hayward Public Library for a special event on March 11, 2009, as part of our NEA-sponsored Big Read of A Lesson Before Dying by Ernest J. Gaines -- a novel set in Cajun Louisiana in the late 1940s. It was a memorable opportunity to meet Tademy and hear more details about her research and writing. I also recommend her second novel, Red River , which explores (again in fictional form) her father's ancestors, and the devastating Colfax, Louisiana, Massacre of 150 black freedmen in 1873. ...more Cane River is an odd mix of fiction and non-fiction, and I'm not sure it entirely works. It feels like trying to find the balance between the two constrains the narrative in ways that either one by itself would not. As non-fiction, it is limited by the availability of sources, and it truly seems like there is much that has to be speculative. As fiction, it is equally limited by the sources - the author is hemmed in by what she does know, and that structure seems binding. Note: The rest of this re Cane River is an odd mix of fiction and non-fiction, and I'm not sure it entirely works. It feels like trying to find the balance between the two constrains the narrative in ways that either one by itself would not. As non-fiction, it is limited by the availability of sources, and it truly seems like there is much that has to be speculative. As fiction, it is equally limited by the sources - the author is hemmed in by what she does know, and that structure seems binding. Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here . In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook ...more A work of historical fiction focusing on the lives of 4 generations of women in Creole Louisiana, from the slave woman matriarch brought to Cane River from Virginia in 1820 to the early 20th century, with a brief epilogue in 1936. All but the first generation had children by white fathers--one by force, one by a coldly calculated relationship intended to benefit the children, & one by a long-term loving relationship hampered by ostracism & legal constraints. The special challenge of thes A work of historical fiction focusing on the lives of 4 generations of women in Creole Louisiana, from the slave woman matriarch brought to Cane River from Virginia in 1820 to the early 20th century, with a brief epilogue in 1936. All but the first generation had children by white fathers--one by force, one by a coldly calculated relationship intended to benefit the children, & one by a long-term loving relationship hampered by ostracism & legal constraints. The special challenge of these mixed-race relationships is--along with the resources of family strength--the main focus of the book. Moderately engaging & somewhat didactic, with serviceable but not inspiring prose, it's worthwhile reading but not worthy of the enthusiastic recommendation it got from Oprah, Darlene, & my Mom. ...more I don't ever remember reading Roots, by Alex Haley. I do remember liking the miniseries when it came out, more for the experience of understanding how lives so different from my own unfolded in times very different from my own. Cane River is like Roots. Maybe not quite as non-fictional, but nonetheless a compelling story of the lives across three generations of African-american women in the 1800's and early 1900's. It's thick, very thick. It touches upon the issues of \"bleaching the line\", the r I don't ever remember reading Roots, by Alex Haley. I do remember liking the miniseries when it came out, more for the experience of understanding how lives so different from my own unfolded in times very different from my own. Cane River is like Roots. Maybe not quite as non-fictional, but nonetheless a compelling story of the lives across three generations of African-american women in the 1800's and early 1900's. It's thick, very thick. It touches upon the issues of \"bleaching the line\", the reasons for lack of strong male presence in many African-american families during that transitional time in history, and of course the racism of the south. The nice thing about the book is that it does this without hitting the reader over the head -- it is quite matter-of-fact. The detracting thing about this book is that it doesn't set up these issues as issues very well or in any intellectual sense, thus the importance of these issues in shaping future generations is lost to most readers. It might have been better as a series of stories, and continued on through to the author's generation and their struggles. Then a comparison of the struggles of each generation, and the different paths chosen in order to overcome those struggles, would really have added importance or some intellectual meaning to the work. ...more Really not good. Which I knew by around page 5. But I read all 500 pages to the end, mostly because my next set of books from Amazon hadn't arrived yet. Interesting story and concept, but the writing is just stinky. It's definitely got the vibe of \"I quit my job at Sun to write a fiction book.\" The dialogue is really bad and the characters are just poorly developed (even though they're real people). I read this one a while ago and did not jot it down in my Book Lover's Diary Journal, so I will relate what I remember. This was an Oprah Book. It has such an interesting backround in that the author Lalita Tademy, wrote this after quitting her job to research her own family heritage. Real documents and photos of the characters, her ancestors, fill the book. The author successfully researched back to her what I think was her great-great-great-great grandmother. A slave. The narrative is broken in I read this one a while ago and did not jot it down in my Book Lover's Diary Journal, so I will relate what I remember. This was an Oprah Book. It has such an interesting backround in that the author Lalita Tademy, wrote this after quitting her job to research her own family heritage. Real documents and photos of the characters, her ancestors, fill the book. The author successfully researched back to her what I think was her great-great-great-great grandmother. A slave. The narrative is broken into three parts. Told from the perspective of her ancestors, spanning three generations. This is a heart-wrenching book; very similar to Uncle Tom's cabin. I think that the fact it is written by a black woman, and about her own heritage and family makes this story more compelling and personal. Uncle Tom's Cabin did the remarkable job of bringing to light the horrors of slavery and prejudice through a fictional cast of characters. Cane River is about a real family and their very real experiences. The dynamics of creoles, blacks and whites, living in Louisiana at that time, somethig I knew nothing about, was very interesting and enlightening as well. The cruelness of humans to others humans is staggering. Yet, it shows the strength of woman, and the power of mothers to survive for their children. Great, sad, read. ...more I am always wary when it comes to books written by regular people who decided to discover their family history. They more often than not are of interest only to the authors and their relatives. And they are usually badly written. Also this was an \"Oprah\" book, so I was expecting lots of gooey 'women power' yadda-yadda. I was pleasantly surprised. Wheares Ms Tademy might not win Nobel Prize for literature anytime soon I don't feel I have wasted my time. She doesn't over-romantacise her heroines - s I am always wary when it comes to books written by regular people who decided to discover their family history. They more often than not are of interest only to the authors and their relatives. And they are usually badly written. Also this was an \"Oprah\" book, so I was expecting lots of gooey 'women power' yadda-yadda. I was pleasantly surprised. Wheares Ms Tademy might not win Nobel Prize for literature anytime soon I don't feel I have wasted my time. She doesn't over-romantacise her heroines - something hard to avoid when you write about your ancestors, so she earned one star for that alone. The remaining three stars are for an interesting story and insight into life in Deep South during the slavery and post-Civil War era. The book seems extremely well researched so I trust my vision of that time is not distorted. ...more This is a captivating novel, based on the author's own genealogy. Set in antebellum Louisiana, it traces the lives of African Americans, particularly women, from slavery to freedom. Tademy's ancestors lived at a fascinating, if often grim, time in the nation's history, and the novel depicts the many obstacles they faced even after the Civil War, particularly for couples of mixed race. Highly recommended. 3.5 stars. A friend really loved this book, so maybe my expectations were too high. I just didn't love it as much as I thought I would. Cane River is an interesting, if easy book. Lalita Tademy traced her ancestry through four generations of remarkable woman, each struggling for her freedom in different ways. This is their story. First we have Elisabeth and then her daughter Suzette, who is the first to know the joys and the heartbreaks of freedom, her daughter Philomene, Philomene's daughter Emily. All of these women are different, and they all go through different trials and tribulations, but they all have one thing in common: Cane River is an interesting, if easy book. Lalita Tademy traced her ancestry through four generations of remarkable woman, each struggling for her freedom in different ways. This is their story. First we have Elisabeth and then her daughter Suzette, who is the first to know the joys and the heartbreaks of freedom, her daughter Philomene, Philomene's daughter Emily. All of these women are different, and they all go through different trials and tribulations, but they all have one thing in common: their unbreakable spirit. And I know that sounds really cliche, but it's true. They never lose hope, and they stick together, despite the occasional spats. The most interesting thing about Cane River is that most of the things that happen in the book, are, presumably, things that actually happened in real life. Lalita Tademy also wrote a book about her father's side of her family, which I may or may not read. I read Cane River for Language Arts class, and it did not help my reading experience. Normally, I would read a book this size in 2 or 3 days, but it got stretched out over two months. Two months. I know, right? So I would read the 40 some-odd pages assigned for four days in one day, and then kind of forget about the book, and then read another 40 pages 4 days later, and etc. In the intermediate time, I would kind of forget what happened. Not forget, exactly. It was more like the book lost its immediacy. Nevertheless, I really enjoyed Cane River. There are some really disturbing things in this book. Both Suzette and Philomene have children with white Frenchmen, and Emily, Philomene's daughter, ends up having relations with a white man over twice her age. But he genuinely loves her, I think. Cane River is not for the faint of heart, though there's nothing too intense. Just some disturbing stuff. I would highly recommend this book, despite my short review. www.novareviews.blogspot.com ...more \"Cane River\" is a family saga of 4+ generations of African American women from slavery to the 1930s. The writing is straightforward, even simple; not great. I found it hard to engage at first, but the narrative eventually becomes engrossing. This is actually a fictionalized family history -- real people, real dates, real events but re-imagined with dialog and inner thoughts of the characters. That gives it a resonance that is deeper than the writing. As I said, it's about the women. The only men \"Cane River\" is a family saga of 4+ generations of African American women from slavery to the 1930s. The writing is straightforward, even simple; not great. I found it hard to engage at first, but the narrative eventually becomes engrossing. This is actually a fictionalized family history -- real people, real dates, real events but re-imagined with dialog and inner thoughts of the characters. That gives it a resonance that is deeper than the writing. As I said, it's about the women. The only men of significance are the white men who bed but cannot wed (even though some of them want to) the women. Over generations, members of the family have lighter and lighter skin and some pass for white. Almost totally absent: black men. This is not an oversight by the author; she's telling us the story as it was. The absence of the black men was part of the culture of slavery and its legacy. The black husbands and wives (or lovers) in \"Cane River\" are consistently and intentionally separated, leaving the women dependent on their white masters and lovers (who are depicted relatively sympathetically). This helps explain the chronic weakness of black families--or rather the absence of men. Actually, the families are strong matriarchies. ...more Cane River covers 137 years of the author's family history, written as fiction, but rooted in research, historical fact and family stories. The matriarch of the line was the Negress, Elisabeth, sold away from a plantation in Virginia to the backwaters of Louisiana. It was heartbreaking at times to read the stories of her descendants' families as they were torn apart by slave auctions, abandoned by their fathers who were white, and faced the sentence of illiteracy. At the same time, it was inspi Cane River covers 137 years of the author's family history, written as fiction, but rooted in research, historical fact and family stories. The matriarch of the line was the Negress, Elisabeth, sold away from a plantation in Virginia to the backwaters of Louisiana. It was heartbreaking at times to read the stories of her descendants' families as they were torn apart by slave auctions, abandoned by their fathers who were white, and faced the sentence of illiteracy. At the same time, it was inspiring to read of the resourcefulness of the women I met in the book. They were smart, strong, hard working, loving mothers who were human just like me. Through Tademy's words and easy-to-read writing style, I could smell the wood fires and cooking greens, see the sweat glisten around the cotton pickers' necks and the dust on their feet, and hear the lilt of the Creole French spoken by the inhabitants of Cane River, Louisiana. That period in time was wrong, and if there is a judgement day, many sins must be accounted for from that ugly time in our history. ...more I picked up this book after I read the author's story in Chicken Soup. I admire her, having taken that leap of faith, deciding to leave her top corporate job, just so she can concentrate on her mission to find out about her family, her roots. She herself admitted that she didn't really know what compelled her to resign; and she didn't have any idea then where that decision would take her. Well, it took her to a two-year long discovery of he lineage, and eventually to a bestseller. The author, Lal I picked up this book after I read the author's story in Chicken Soup. I admire her, having taken that leap of faith, deciding to leave her top corporate job, just so she can concentrate on her mission to find out about her family, her roots. She herself admitted that she didn't really know what compelled her to resign; and she didn't have any idea then where that decision would take her. Well, it took her to a two-year long discovery of he lineage, and eventually to a bestseller. The author, Lalita, is of the seventh generation down from Elizabeth in a mixed-race family who went through the tough times of slavery and discrimination from as early as the 17th century. It demonstrates the strength of women, so evident nowadays, but it had been so even before. They may have been looked down upon, but they bore the weight of the hard times and made sure that their children were raised right under whatever circumstances. A good story to draw strength upon. ...more I found this book on the bargain table and picked it up to read when I needed something in between other books. I am very thankful that I read this book\u2026I truly enjoyed it. The author takes the real life people from her family\u2019s genealogy and puts them within a heart breaking and loving story set in the backcountry of Louisiana in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The story deals extensively with racial relations between whites and blacks because throughout most of the book, the characters are I found this book on the bargain table and picked it up to read when I needed something in between other books. I am very thankful that I read this book\u2026I truly enjoyed it. The author takes the real life people from her family\u2019s genealogy and puts them within a heart breaking and loving story set in the backcountry of Louisiana in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The story deals extensively with racial relations between whites and blacks because throughout most of the book, the characters are slaves and are treated with utter disrespect, hatred, and distain. Each woman in the book fights for her place in the world, for what she believes is her due for herself and for her children. After finishing the book, I recommend returning to the beginning and rereading the author\u2019s note. There was so much factual information that meant much more to me after \u201cknowing\u201d the people involved. ...more This was a pick for my face to face book club. I generally either love or hate Oprah's picks. Upon reading the synopsis, I thought this might be really interesting, but unfortunately, it never got off the ground for me. The author is writing about 4 generations of her family who started out as slaves in the Cane River area of Louisiana. While there was some interesting explanations about the hierarchy of the people in that area (free people of color, mulattos, Creoles, etc), the characterization This was a pick for my face to face book club. I generally either love or hate Oprah's picks. Upon reading the synopsis, I thought this might be really interesting, but unfortunately, it never got off the ground for me. The author is writing about 4 generations of her family who started out as slaves in the Cane River area of Louisiana. While there was some interesting explanations about the hierarchy of the people in that area (free people of color, mulattos, Creoles, etc), the characterization a of the main characters fell flat for me (a sentiment shared by other bookclub member). Under full disclosure, I did mostly skim the last sections of the book since book club so that I \"finished\" before my bookclub meeting. ...more A wonderful book, I loved the history, the story the setting. I've been to this area and live fairly close, so learning about the history of the people through the eyes of slave women really brought it to life for me. The tragedies that the slaves went through are unthinkable but to come out on the other side still intact is amazing. Although this book is historical fiction the author's piecing together her family history here is nothing short of a miracle. Inspring and gives you a sense of what the culture is like in Louisiana for that time period if your into History and want to know why people think and do the things they do. Harsh but reality. This book will make you appreciate much of which we take for granted everyday. The narrative is told so well- through numerous viewpoints. I recommend this for all the women I know in the Downtown Book Club. Kelly's Favorite. Bravo Ms. Tademy for her first work of historical fiction. I know I\u2019m late with this as this book has been out for some time, but achieving success in the historical fiction genre is no small feat. This book is very easy to read. You can tell immediately that she has certainly done her research in regards to this time period involving Louisiana, slaves and emancipation. It is also evident that she has done her homework discovering how her personal family history fits into this. Trying to resear Bravo Ms. Tademy for her first work of historical fiction. I know I\u2019m late with this as this book has been out for some time, but achieving success in the historical fiction genre is no small feat. This book is very easy to read. You can tell immediately that she has certainly done her research in regards to this time period involving Louisiana, slaves and emancipation. It is also evident that she has done her homework discovering how her personal family history fits into this. Trying to research family history is difficult and time consuming within itself let alone trying to trace ancestral lines that go back into slavery. Most of us reach the \u201cwall of slavery\u201d in our research efforts and the trail goes cold. So, once again, kudos for her diligence, progress and success. Lalita Tademy successfully mixes elements of her families factual history with researched period details to create a sprawling generational account of love, family, choices and sacrifice. Four stalwart generations of women of color tell the story of their lives and the steps they took living life in response to the twists and curves that were thrown at them. Our journey starts with Suzette but at the head of the family is our grand matriarch Elisabeth, a slave who works in the cook house on the Derbane plantation. Elisabeth is described as a dark complexioned woman who was sold to the Derbanes from a relation\u2019s plantation in Virginia. Elisabeth, who has experienced real hardship and loss within the bounds of slavery is a quiet woman who sees a lot but tries to stay in her place. Suzette, one of her daughters, carries us through most of her and her mother\u2019s story of heartbreak, strength and resolve there on the plantation. Philomene, Suzette\u2019s mulatto daughter picks up the narrative breaking the mold in a line of subservient slave women. Philomene tells us a true love story in the midst of bondage. Philomene, described as a woman with piercing eyes, who when pushed to the brink, learns to manipulate the components of her situation to get what she wants and needs for her family. She is the strength and level head of her family young and old. Lastly, we meet Emily who carries the torch into the future. Emily, is described as a petite fair skinned quadroon. Emily, who\u2019s had many advantages considering her status, carries a certain air of grandeur, pumped up pride and conceit about her what she feels is the privilege of her fair skin. Emily, the last leg from the heavy past, begot the seeds of the future leading to our author in the present. My feelings on the book: As I noted when I started reading this book, I've actually owned this book for some time. I attempted to start it previously but I assume I just wasn't in the right frame of mind to take on the subject matter. Although the reading of this book is quite smooth and flows nicely, slavery, is no easy subject to digest. I must admit that a few times some of the hardships these women had to deal with within the bounds of slavery brought me to tears. I had to stop and compose myself before continuing. I actually thought near the beginning of book that I would have to put it down and switch books. Not due to any disturbing detail just the emotion brought on by the fact that this is a situation some of my very own ancestors dealt with, gave me pause. It wasn't all bad and these women, as I'm sure most during this time in America's history, learned to persevere in whatever little ways they could. This was the encouragement to keep reading. If they could press on, I could keep reading about it. I'm giving this book 4 stars for two reasons. #1 Although I respect the author for her efforts and success, towards the very end of the book, the last few chapters seemed rushed and weary. As if after all the tiring detail throughout the majority of the book, the last few chapters were a quick run down of relative names and a few quick little stories to get the reader to the link between these people and the author. It just seemed rushed and maybe the steam had gone out. #2 Reason is a heavy one. In the words of one of my favorite comedian's who did a skit on it, \"this racism is killing me!\" I can take a book about the history of slavery in America. We all know what that entails as a subject. It's heavy enough but this inner race racism between the various colors and shades of African American people, though it is a reality, I can't take it. I don't subscribe to it. I personally think it's debilitating to the strength of a people and it enrages me. One shade on the canvas is not better than the other, although some may feel otherwise. One is not more true or real than the other. I've seen it, I've heard it, I've experienced it. Yes, unfortunately it is a reality in history and surprisingly yes, even in present times but I hate it. These are my own personal opinions and they tie in with my rating because of the overtone that annoyed me. The impression that this one or that one had more opportunities based on her skin tone, ticked me off because at the end of it all, she still had to get waited on second in the store and still needed to sit in the back of the bus. Maybe because I'm from a later generation but to deny one's true, God blessed identity and mask with this air of superiority that is rooted in self hate, preposterous to me. It's a self induced repetition of the ideals that slavery was built on. A self induced slavery. And I could be wrong but this is my opinion that in some ways, there was an undertone that glorified this way of thinking. All, of that was my own opinion, which I'm entitled to. All in all, this was a good thought provoking, emotion stirring historical fiction and I do recommend it to those who can handle the subject. ...more It was a good read. It opens a window into a time when slavery was at its peak. Reading about the abominations carried out on the people of colour and their sheer will to create a better life for each new generation, makes me appreciate their strong willed women. A very powerful and poignant chronicle of four generations of the author's lineage, and the evolution of the post civil war south. A really great read that in many ways left me in the same mindset as \"The Help\", but in much earlier times and on many different levels. It is remarkable (or a bit strange, maybe) that being a Western European I\u2019ve always been more fascinated by American history than European history. Well I wouldn\u2019t use the term 'more fascinated', rather 'more moved by', or enthralled. It\u2019s rather like the American history speaks more to my imagination, or because I find it more compelling and adventurous on some level. Or maybe it is simply that the American history has found its way much more often to the wide screen, or on the pages of plenty It is remarkable (or a bit strange, maybe) that being a Western European I\u2019ve always been more fascinated by American history than European history. Well I wouldn\u2019t use the term 'more fascinated', rather 'more moved by', or enthralled. It\u2019s rather like the American history speaks more to my imagination, or because I find it more compelling and adventurous on some level. Or maybe it is simply that the American history has found its way much more often to the wide screen, or on the pages of plenty of talented novelists, more than any other country\u2019s history? Probably. So yes I was eager to read this book but unfortunately Cane River, the narration of four enslaved women, was not the unforgettable and magnificent read that I had hoped it would be. I have to say that there\u2019s no doubt in my mind that this book is a valuable family chronicle and that I totally admire the author\u2019s work in researching her family\u2019s history. I applaud the idea behind the book, the concept of mixing family history with fiction \u2013 and most of all I applaud and recognize the story\u2019s historical importance \u2013 deserving all the praise and more. Nevertheless when it comes down to the storytelling itself, this book didn't have as much of an emotional impact on me as I had expected. The author shares with us four generations of women who are ill-treated, taken against their will (in other words some repeatedly raped and/or some had to compromise), bearing children by their white masters, who are then born into slavery, while other members of their family, their mothers, fathers, husbands or loved-ones are sold away with no hope of reunion. These things should have been profoundly moving, and yet the author's style was a bit too dispassionate to able to convey real emotion other than overall sadness. The other issue I had with this book was that it sometimes moved too fast over the time-line, rendering all the events in quickly succession. One thing I will say: I do immensily admire all the women in Mrs. Tademy's book. Immensily! The author also did a wonderful job of conveying the love that these women had for their children. This book had so much potential and could have been a truly great novel, but I cannot help but compare this read to the wonderful books I\u2019ve recently enjoyed in the same genre or on similar topics, especially the masterfully written and engrossing \u201cKitchen House\u201d or \u201cMudbound\u201d and then observe that Cane River is falling a tiny bit short. (3,5 *** rating) ...more Wonderful and Soulful Publishers description: \"Five generations and a hundred years in the life of a matriarchal black Louisiana family are encapsulated in this ambitious debut novel that is based in part upon the lives, as preserved in both historical record and oral tradition, of the author's ancestors. In 1834, nine-year-old Suzette, the \"cocoa-colored\" house servant of a Creole planter family, has aspirations to read, to live always in a \"big house\" and maybe even to marry into the relatively Wonderful and Soulful Publishers description: \"Five generations and a hundred years in the life of a matriarchal black Louisiana family are encapsulated in this ambitious debut novel that is based in part upon the lives, as preserved in both historical record and oral tradition, of the author's ancestors. In 1834, nine-year-old Suzette, the \"cocoa-colored\" house servant of a Creole planter family, has aspirations to read, to live always in a \"big house\" and maybe even to marry into the relatively privileged world of the gens de couleur libre. Her plans are dashed, however, when at age 13 a French migr takes her as his mistress. Her \"high yellow\" daughter Philomene, in turn, is maneuvered into becoming the mother of Creole planter Narcisse Fredieu's \"side family.\" After the Civil War, Philomene pins her hopes for a better future on her light-skinned daughter, Emily Fredieu, who is given a year of convent schooling in New Orleans. But Emily must struggle constantly to protect her children by her father's French cousin from terrorist \"Night Riders\" and racist laws. Tademy is candid about her ancestors' temptations to \"pass,\" as their complexions lighten from the color of \"coffee, to cocoa, to cream to milk, to lily.\" While she fully imagines their lives, she doesn't pander to the reader by introducing melodrama or sex. Her frank observations about black racism add depth to the tale, and she demonstrates that although the practice of slavery fell most harshly upon blacks, and especially women, it also constricted the lives and choices of white men. Photos of and documents relating to Tademy's ancestors add authenticity to a fascinating story.\"~~~~~~~ I picked up this book on a whim and was worried I wouldn't enjoy it due to it's volume. However, once I began reading, I was unable to stop. This is a book for any woman who wants to walk in the life of those who came before her, to really appreciate the hardships women have endured in order to make this life for current women possible. Engrossing, wonderfully and vividly written, your emotions go up and down with the characters'. ...more<---C>Lalita Tademy</---C>", "Title": "Cane River"},
