{"Comments": "OK, I will admit it....after not even paying attention to <---A>Lee Child</---A>'s name in the bookstores all these years, I am now a committed <---C>Jack Reacher</---C> fan. And it even pains me more to reveal that it was the Tom Cruise movie that motivated me to start reading the series! (<---B>Ouch...that hurt just to type</---B>) But, whether you go to see the movie or just want a fun read, I highly recommend these novels. I have read two now and am on my third. Same engaging character (Reacher,<---M>) great plot lines</---M>, wonderful suppor OK, I will admit it....after not even paying attention to Lee Child's name in the bookstores all these years, I am now a committed Jack Reacher fan. And it even pains me more to reveal that it was the Tom Cruise movie that motivated me to start reading the series! (Ouch...that hurt just to type) But, whether you go to see the movie or just want a fun read, I highly recommend these novels. I have read two now and am on my third. Same engaging character (Reacher,) great plot lines, wonderful supporting character development, and best of all, a nice pace to the story. After seeing the movie, I researched a little, and found out that \"<+++>The Enemy</+++>\" was the eighth in the Reacher series but actually was a pre-quel to the first novel Child wrote. There are conflicting opinions as to whether you should read the books in order or start with this pre-quel. For whatever it's worth, I think reading \"<+++>The Enemy</+++>\" first is a great move. It really gives you a terrific insight into what makes Reacher tick and therefore gives the reader an improved perspective into the character as he is developed in the remainder of the series. \"The Enemy\" starts off a tad slow in pace but as you read on, you realize it is all part of the development of the main character. Reacher is a product of life in the military. He was literally born while his father was an active soldier. This is important as you move into the later books in the series because it helps you understand the way he approaches almost everything in life...<---F>problems, people, relationships, eating</---F>....literally \"everything!\" Do NOT get thrown off by the author's repeated use of the phrase \"I said nothing.\" Just keep yourself in check and put the phrase into the context of YOUR understanding of \"Reacher.\" This is an important tidbit because otherwise, the phrase will drive you nuts after a while. Just keep in mind exactly who this guy is, how he got there, and how different his view of the world has been compared to yours. So with that, you are on your own to either pursue \"The Enemy\" or not! However, be forewarned, if you DO choose to try a Child novel, my bet is you won't be able to read just one. ...more I love this fast action, fast moving series. Jack Reacher is a mans man with a tough exterior and a good moral compass. I have not read this series in order but this could be the first. It is the explanation of why Jack opts out of his military career. The storyline moves along smartly with good characters who are likable and believable. I love when any of these come up as a Daily Deal. Dick Hill is not always my favorite narrator but Reacher is the perfect character for him. First in the Jack Reacher thriller series (and technically eighth) revolving around an ex-military policeman out to see the world. And save it. This story takes place at Fort Bird in North Carolina. My Take I just love how Reacher's mind works. It's fascinating to read how he pulls the clues together, how he puts himself into the killer's mind. I do like the post pathologist. He's as interested in truth as Reacher and they dance around the evidence and keeping it safe. Make me laugh\u2026 \"The Reacher b First in the Jack Reacher thriller series (and technically eighth) revolving around an ex-military policeman out to see the world. And save it. This story takes place at Fort Bird in North Carolina. My Take I just love how Reacher's mind works. It's fascinating to read how he pulls the clues together, how he puts himself into the killer's mind. I do like the post pathologist. He's as interested in truth as Reacher and they dance around the evidence and keeping it safe. Make me laugh\u2026 \"The Reacher brothers' need for caffeine makes heroin addiction look like an amusing little take-it-or-leave-it sideline.\" I did enjoy Reacher and Summer's European tour. Tearing ahead of Willard and terrifying Armored Branch officers. Then there's the little escape at the airport. Sadly, Reacher also fit in a trip to his mom's. Talk about not knowing someone. It takes a situation like this for Reacher to learn an extremely important, valuable fact about his mother. For the most part, this story was so convoluted, twisting around on itself and so full of betrayals! There is no organization in the world that is without people more interested in their own power, their own status quo than in the organization they are supposed to be a part of. It's one thing in the corporate world but when it comes to the military or the church---or government! Stop, just stop laughing so hard. So I'm an idealist... You know what I mean. In a perfect world, people would look out or each other. It would be full of Reachers. This story has one Reacher, but it does have a lot of support for him. My heart raced, I cried for people like Kramer and Carbone for what they had to hide just so they could do what they loved [in the army!], and I was so angry about the lives destroyed just for jerks who want to get ahead. D'ya reckon they might ever come out with a conscience bomb?? I do wonder if Reacher makes the decision he does at the end because of people like Willard and others like him in the army. That he doesn't want to start down that road. The major lesson here? Don't piss Reacher off. The Story With the Berlin Wall coming down, soldiers are nervous. No more Cold War means fewer soldiers needed. There are a few things you can count on the army for: to screw up and to cut inexplicable orders. Jack thought it was odd enough that he was suddenly ordered out of Panama and sent to Fort Bird. He finds it even odder as he discovers that a number of M.P.s, good ones, have all been rearranged around the world. All on the same day. None of the signatures on their orders make sense either. Nor do the lies. Then there's the two-star general who bought it with a heart attack in a rundown motel. And his briefcase is missing. He'd had a very good chance of becoming Vice-Chief of Staff. If he'd lived. They don't have too long to worry about having to tell the widow. It just gets weirder when Reacher is arrested when he returns from a quick trip to Paris to see his mother. But it does introduce him to his enemy. Willard may think he has it all over Reacher, but he reckons without the loyalty Reacher commands. Well, how would Willard understand loyalty, anyway? The Characters Major Jack Reacher is one of the best of the military policemen in the army and the top people know it. Joe Reacher is his brother who moved over to the FBI from military intelligence. Their mom is dying from cancer. Monsieur Pierre Lamonnier knew her when Josephine Moutier was B\u00e9atrice and rescuing downed soldiers. For which she received La Medaille de la R\u00e9sistance . Lieutenant Summer is eager to transfer into 110th Special Unit and she thinks she's lucky to have caught Reacher's eye. Lieutenant Colonel Norton is an instructor in Psy-Ops for the army. Colonel Leon Garber suddenly gets sent to Korea with a promotion. Just in time to screw up Reacher's trip home from Paris. Now, Reacher is answering to Colonel Willard , a.k.a., The Enemy . A jerk who is more interested in the status quo and his own rise than in truth. Blackmail works just fine for him. Kenneth R. Kramer is, or rather was, a two-star general in Armored Branch, staying in a flea-bitten motel while en route to a hush-hush, no-big-deal conference at Fort Irwin in California. Mrs. Kramer is already home in Virginia for the holidays. General Vassell and Colonel Coomer with Kramer were \"the corporate face of Armor\" and they were traveling together to this conference. Major Marshall is their driver. Rick Stockton is the deputy chief near Fort Bird in North Carolina. Detective Clark is on Mrs. Kramer's case. Special Forces Sergeant Christopher Carbone seemed like such a good guy. His mates in Delta Force are not gonna be happy. Colonel David C. Brubaker, Fort Bird's Special Forces CO, is found murdered in very suspicious circumstances. Sergeant Trifonov is also with Delta, but he has an excellent excuse. And his friend's sister can back him up. So can her soon-to-be-ex husband. The Cover The cover is a deserted, rainy street with the light from traffic lights and neon signs reflecting off the wet pavement in a glorious blur of red, white, and blues. The title is too accurate, for Reacher did find The Enemy . You just know Reacher was army, prepared to make on-the-spot decisions. ...more This is one of my favorite Lee Child books - and that says a lot as I would say he IS my favorite author! This book is a bit of a departure as it follows Jack Reacher while he is still in the military instead of Reacher, the ex military hobo. He is removed from his post in Panama and stationed in North Carolina on New Year's Eve. A strategic relocation by someone that still has yet to be identified... While \"celebrating\" the new year in the MP office he is called to a run down hotel where a 2 st This is one of my favorite Lee Child books - and that says a lot as I would say he IS my favorite author! This book is a bit of a departure as it follows Jack Reacher while he is still in the military instead of Reacher, the ex military hobo. He is removed from his post in Panama and stationed in North Carolina on New Year's Eve. A strategic relocation by someone that still has yet to be identified... While \"celebrating\" the new year in the MP office he is called to a run down hotel where a 2 star general is found dead... then hours later and miles away, he finds the general's wife dead too. This is just the beginning of a conspiracy that Reacher has to unravel in order to find a killer in his own ranks and avoid being set up as the fall guy for it all. In between the military mystery, you learn about his family as well. While visiting his mother in France with his brother, Joe. Secrets are revealed and his mother's mysterious past comes to light. I particulary like the ending and the explanation for background we have learned about Reacher in Child's other books. This trip back introduces us to characters referenced in other books and gives a sense of how he was demoted before leaving the military... I look forward to the next flashback book which I anticipate will introduce us to his elite team while they were still in the military (Re: Bad Luck and Trouble). ...more I really wish I could love Jack Reacher books more. In theory they are everything I should enjoy in a story but in reality I find them a bit of a trudge through treacle and always about a hundred pages or so too long. This one was interesting in that it took you back to perhaps a light bulb moment in Jack Reacher's army career and life and shows you a little more of his personal life. The isolated relationship he has with his family - even his mother only calls him Reacher. We find Jack unexpected I really wish I could love Jack Reacher books more. In theory they are everything I should enjoy in a story but in reality I find them a bit of a trudge through treacle and always about a hundred pages or so too long. This one was interesting in that it took you back to perhaps a light bulb moment in Jack Reacher's army career and life and shows you a little more of his personal life. The isolated relationship he has with his family - even his mother only calls him Reacher. We find Jack unexpectedly drafted to Fort Bird where on New Years Eve a General is murdered close by and things go to hell in a hand basket rather quickly. The General's wife is also murdered and Reacher has to turn that investigation over to local police as its a civilian homicide. The company boss is switched out with a colonel who insiats that Reacher does not continue to investigate the murder. This doesn't sit well and despite the orders Jack continues to look into the situation. Reacher also has to deal with a very upsetting personal situation and the most interesting point of the book is the history of his mother and what she did during the second world war as part of the resistance. Between trying to avoid charges and arrests instigated by his new CO and being blocked at every turn in the investigation there is as always time for Reacher to get into bed with a subordinate. This seems to be a theme through the books and there doesn't seem to be any attraction between him and the female lieutenant in this book until the point they go to Paris. In a way this book has actually made me a bit anti Reacher but I can't quite put my finger on why. He obviously has honour and fights for what is right but even MPs can't go off doing half of what he does and get away with it. Not wanting to ruin the ending I think perhaps this is what does it for me. To me it was pre-meditated murder and makes him just as bad as the rest of the people he was rounding up. Three stars is about as good as I can manage for this. Will I read the next Reacher book? Probably but then I am a glutton for punishment! ...more Weak 3 stars. It wasn\u2019t as fun or engaging as other Reacher stories. A long drawn out mystery with a tell-all at the end. STORY BRIEF: A general was meeting someone for sex in a motel and dies of a heart attack. His briefcase with confidential documents is missing. Someone kills his wife the same day. Someone kills a Delta force soldier in the woods a day or so later. Reacher\u2019s boss is transferred out and replaced by Willard who tells Reacher not to investigate these deaths. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: This Weak 3 stars. It wasn\u2019t as fun or engaging as other Reacher stories. A long drawn out mystery with a tell-all at the end. STORY BRIEF: A general was meeting someone for sex in a motel and dies of a heart attack. His briefcase with confidential documents is missing. Someone kills his wife the same day. Someone kills a Delta force soldier in the woods a day or so later. Reacher\u2019s boss is transferred out and replaced by Willard who tells Reacher not to investigate these deaths. REVIEWER\u2019S OPINION: This is not typical tough guy Reacher with a lot of action and good mystery. The mystery drags through most of the book. There is some discovery but not much. Then all of a sudden toward the end, Reacher has a eureka moment in his head and tells his partner in a five minute monologue the complicated story of what has been going on. I would have preferred we learn clues and some of the mystery as we go along. This book doesn\u2019t have the energy of prior books. There are a few good fighting and macho scenes, but not enough to make up for the rest. This is the first Reacher book that I have NOT labeled as a thriller. I call it mystery suspense. In a thriller we watch the bad guy planning and doing bad things to Reacher and others. In this book, the bad guys are hiding and covering up things rather than planning future harm to Reacher. That might be part of the reason it\u2019s not as good as the prior books. Reacher wants to investigate a murder, but his incompetent bureaucratic boss orders him to write it up as a training accident and to not investigate. So Reacher investigates on the sly, with his boss threatening to arrest him for being AWOL or not following orders. That is the main threat to Reacher which is not as fun as when bad guys try to harm him. PERSONAL PREFERENCE DISLIKES: I did not like two things toward the end. Usually I like seeing Reacher beat up and kill bad guys. But he killed one of them in a way that bothered me. It felt like an assassination. It wasn\u2019t killing in self defense. I don\u2019t know why it bothered me when other Reacher killings did not. I wish it were done differently. Another thing that bothered me was that Reacher received an inheritance. He said he didn\u2019t want it and gave it away. In other books, he is a vagabond and uses his savings to pay for busses, motels, and cheap restaurant food. The inheritance would help him. Yes he is still in the army and has not yet started his vagabond lifestyle, but it felt unsettling and impractical. Army pay is not very good. In another book he inherited money that he put in a bank account to fund his vagabond lifestyle. I don\u2019t see why this inheritance should have been different. There was no taint to it. To be fair, his charitable donation was for a worthwhile cause. THE SERIES: This is book 8 in the Jack Reacher series. I gave 4 or more stars to all of the first 7 books except for Running Blind, gave that one 2 \u00bd. NARRATOR: The narrator Dick Hill was very good. DATA: Unabridged audiobook reading time: 14 hrs and 9 mins. Swearing language: moderate. Sexual language: none. Number of sex scenes: two referred to not shown. Setting: January, 1990, mostly N and S Carolina, plus other US locations and Europe. Book copyright: 2004. Genre: mystery suspense. Ending: Technically good, but an unsettled feeling. ...more This is a Jack Reacher novel. He gets into trouble, he gets into more trouble, then there is a fight or something gets blown up, then everything works out, and Reacher moves on. Good stuff, but he is not Tom Cruise! Prequel time. Rather than Reacher the wandering loner, The Enemy gives us Reacher the army man; Reacher the Major; Reacher the Military Policeman. Long before the events of the previous seven novels (and referred to obliquely in at least one of them) Reacher got involved in something while he was an MP Major and had to take a demotion as a 'punishment'. This is the story of that something. Reacher has been transferred back from Panama to a nowhere base in North Carolina. His transfer papers sig Prequel time. Rather than Reacher the wandering loner, The Enemy gives us Reacher the army man; Reacher the Major; Reacher the Military Policeman. Long before the events of the previous seven novels (and referred to obliquely in at least one of them) Reacher got involved in something while he was an MP Major and had to take a demotion as a 'punishment'. This is the story of that something. Reacher has been transferred back from Panama to a nowhere base in North Carolina. His transfer papers signed by General Leon Garber (another name from a few of the previous novels). Before Reacher can speak to Garber about that though he's transferred out to Korea himself. In fact Reacher isn't the only investigator MP that's been brought back from Panama and left effectively unattended as he discovers. More complex than your usual Lee Child novel, there are multiple stories going on that all, eventually, tie together \u2013 more of less. The political story of who authorised the transfers, the secret meeting agenda (there's always a written agenda) is one story. The death of the General Kramer and the murder of his wife on the same day (that seems like too much of a coincidence) is the second story and the first case that Reacher finds on his plate. The murders of the two special forces guys is a third thread (and the second case). And finally, we get to find out a lot of Reacher's family history in the fourth story about the terminal illness of his mother who lives in Paris. All in all a lot to keep track of, but it's handled well. There are a few 'yeah right' moments that are obviously in there to expedite the story, but the pace lets you forgive them mostly. I was left not quite sure who the titular Enemy was supposed to be though. The murderer(s) that he's tracking down seems too obvious. The political shenanigans that goes on within the military that treats careers as more important than soldiers lives and tries to stop Reacher 'doing the right thing'? The change in the enemies of the US \u2013 with the former Soviet cold war situation falling apart \u2013 means that Reacher is already starting to think, and talk, about possible redundancy? Or just the old enemy of Death, the shadow over both the Reacher brothers as they worry about their mum? ...more A nice trip back in time to Jack Reacher as an MP. Get to meet his family. Although I figured out one clue right away, Child still managed to throw in surprises at the end. Amazing scene with Reacher and his brother taking leave of their dying mother in Paris: Then she revisited another old family ritual. She did something she had done ten thousand times before, all through our lives, since we were first old enough to have individuality of our own. She stuggled up out of her chair and stepped ove A nice trip back in time to Jack Reacher as an MP. Get to meet his family. Although I figured out one clue right away, Child still managed to throw in surprises at the end. Amazing scene with Reacher and his brother taking leave of their dying mother in Paris: Then she revisited another old family ritual. She did something she had done ten thousand times before, all through our lives, since we were first old enough to have individuality of our own. She stuggled up out of her chair and stepped over and put her hands on Joe's shoulders, from behind. Then she bent and kissed his cheek. \"What don't you need to do?\" she asked him. He didn't answer. He never did. Our silence was part of the ritual. \"You don't need to solve the all the world's problems, Joe. Only some of them. There are enough to go around.\" She kissed his cheek again Then she kept one hand on the back of his chair and reached out with the other and moved herself over behind me. I could hear her ragged breathing. Then she kissed my cheek. Then like she used to all those years before she put her hands on my shoulders. Measured them, side to side. She was a small woman, fascinated by the way her baby had grown into a giant. \"You've got the strength of two normal boys,\" she said. Then came my own personal question. \"What are you going to do with this strength?\" she asked me. I didn't answer. I never did. \"You're going to do the right thing,\" she said. Then she bent down and kissed me on the cheek again. I think this exchange is the key to Reacher's ability to lead a nomadic life. When your mother has known you so well, and been your true home, you don't need any other home. It's enough to carry the memory of that love and understanding with you wherever you go. ...more The Enemy (Jack Reacher #8), Lee Child \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u062f\u0634\u0645\u0646 - \u06a9\u062a\u0627\u0628 08 - \u0627\u0632 \u0633\u0631\u06cc \u062c\u06a9 \u0631\u06cc\u0686\u0631\u061b \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u0647: \u0644\u06cc \u0686\u0627\u06cc\u0644\u062f\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0645\u062d\u0645\u062f \u0639\u0628\u0627\u0633 \u0622\u0628\u0627\u062f\u06cc\u061b \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u062a\u0646\u062f\u06cc\u0633\u060c 1394\u061b \u062f\u0631 571 \u0635\u061b \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9786001821776\u061b Here I was thinking that the Jack Reacher novels were all action and fast-paced movement with lots of interesting settings in the macho worlds of military/police/criminals. I was amazed to find that The Enemy kept me pondering and thinking long after I was done reading it. I got thinking about all the \"enemies\" in the story that drove the plot. I assumed that the enemy referred to in the title was the murderer that Reacher was tracking down. But then the story is set in the political upheaval in Here I was thinking that the Jack Reacher novels were all action and fast-paced movement with lots of interesting settings in the macho worlds of military/police/criminals. I was amazed to find that The Enemy kept me pondering and thinking long after I was done reading it. I got thinking about all the \"enemies\" in the story that drove the plot. I assumed that the enemy referred to in the title was the murderer that Reacher was tracking down. But then the story is set in the political upheaval in the military world following the fall of the Berlin wall and the loss of the communists as an enemy. Reacher realizes that now the United State's \"enemy\" has dissolved, he'd better be thinking about what might happen to his job as an MP if/when the military is heavily reduced. Besides those two enemies, Reacher's personal \"enemies\" as he tries to do his job are not only the bad guys but his immediate superior who just wants to cover things up and the Delta force soldiers who think Reacher was the one who murdered their buddy. But then there is also another story line and enemy identified--Reacher's mother is dying of cancer. It's a subplot that adds a lot of depth and reason for Reacher's actions. Death is every man's final enemy. Reacher's mom kept the fact that she had cancer a secret until it was too late to do anything about it. Reacher tells his brother, who was upset that they she hadn't told them earlier, that the reason she hadn't told them was because they would have argued with her about treatment. \"It was a decision that belonged to her.\" I kept thinking about my own mother and her decision not to have chemo or radiation at the end of her life. Yes, we wanted to argue with her, but yes, it really was her decision. Another insight about death: \"Life, what a completely weird thing it is. A person lives sixty years, does all kinds of things, knows all kinds of things, feels all kinds of things, and then it's over. Like it never happened at all.\" \"We'll always remember her.\" \"No, we'll remember parts of her. The parts she chose to share. The tip of the iceberg. The rest only she knew about. Therefore the rest already doesn't exist. As of now.\" That statement struck me as being so true. Since Mom died, I have realized there are so many things I don't know about her and that I'd like to ask her now, but I can't. But that statement is actually only half true: I console myself with the thought that unlike Reacher's brother, I know Mom still lives and I will see her again and can ask her to tell me the things I've been wondering about. Death doesn't have to be the Enemy; just as a doorway. ...more I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social con I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all. If you feel a certain affinity for the lone hero, a man of principle, of unwavering knowledge and assent as to his own actions, than Jack Reacher's your kinda guy. Lee Child has created an unforgettable and unique character in his creation of Jack Reacher. Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies. He embraces it. Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values. He defends those he loves, those he does allow into his world, with a loyalty bar none while never letting go of the notion that he is alone and being perfectly comfortable with that. I read one, and within two months read all 15 books with an appetite that couldn't get enough. Enough said, HR ...more I haven\u2019t previously read the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child, although his fans I\u2019ve talked with are extremely loyal and eagerly grab each new installment as it hits the shelves. Then I met him at a recent mystery conference and he seemed so intelligent, I decided to give the series a try. I started with The Enemy, because although it wasn\u2019t written first, it is the earliest in the fictional life of Jack Reacher. When we first meet Jack, he\u2019s a Major in the Military Police, an Academy grad and I haven\u2019t previously read the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child, although his fans I\u2019ve talked with are extremely loyal and eagerly grab each new installment as it hits the shelves. Then I met him at a recent mystery conference and he seemed so intelligent, I decided to give the series a try. I started with The Enemy, because although it wasn\u2019t written first, it is the earliest in the fictional life of Jack Reacher. When we first meet Jack, he\u2019s a Major in the Military Police, an Academy grad and the son and grandson of soldiers. The Army is his life. He has just been transferred from Panama to Ft. Bird, NC. It\u2019s New Year's Eve, 1990 \u2013 the Berlin Wall in falling and the Soviet Union is failing. How will the Army react to the loss of their current enemy? Reacher is called out to investigate the death of a two star General in a seedy motel. The death is ruled a heart attack, but his briefcase is missing, and with it the agenda for a meeting of top Generals of the Armored Divisions based in Europe. When Reacher and his aide, Lt. Summer, drive to Virginia to break the news to the General\u2019s wife, they discover she is also dead, bludgeoned with a crowbar. Then the vicious butchery of a Delta Force soldier occurs on base, but Jack\u2019s newly transferred in boss tells him to report it as a \u201ctraining accident.\u201d He soon discovers that 20 of the best and brightest of his cohorts have been transferred the same day. This leads to all sorts of interesting questions like \u201cWho has the power to transfer 20 of the Army\u2019s top cops?\u201d In the middle of this, Jack gets a call from his brother \u2013 their mother is dying in Paris. Jack and Lt. Summer travel in search of clues, to Germany, back to Virginia, South Carolina, back to North Carolina, DC and then California. This is very much a police procedural with the duo following wherever the clues lead him, while trying to stay ahead of their Commanding Officer, who declares them AWOL. The culprits are fairly easy to figure out -- it\u2019s nailing down the evidence that\u2019s difficult. Jack delivers a somewhat shocking brand of his own justice at the very end of the book. I grew up on military bases, just like Jack, and the descriptions of Army life are accurate. This book is more of a mystery than his later books, which I understand are better described as thrillers. However, I couldn\u2019t put the book down until the end and stayed up until the early hours of dawn. So if you enjoy a good mystery with crackling suspense, try the Jack Reacher novels of Lee Child. There is also a new movie out in December starring Tom Cruise as Reacher; quite a stretch as Reacher is described as 6\u2019 5\u201d and Cruise is 5\u2019 7\u201d. But, hey, that\u2019s why they call it acting. ...more I say this every time, but Lee Child is more of a guilty pleasure read than anything else. I enjoy the Jack Reacher stories yet I\u2019m less sure about the story telling. Nevertheless, I mostly enjoy the books \u2013 some more than others. As always, the writing left me feeling somewhat iffy. Whenever I have time away from the Jack Reacher books, it takes me a while to get back into Lee Child\u2019s way of writing. Fortunately, this story was an interesting one meaning it did not take long before I was enterta I say this every time, but Lee Child is more of a guilty pleasure read than anything else. I enjoy the Jack Reacher stories yet I\u2019m less sure about the story telling. Nevertheless, I mostly enjoy the books \u2013 some more than others. As always, the writing left me feeling somewhat iffy. Whenever I have time away from the Jack Reacher books, it takes me a while to get back into Lee Child\u2019s way of writing. Fortunately, this story was an interesting one meaning it did not take long before I was entertained enough to overlook the issues I have. In fact, I found this story to be super fun. It isn\u2019t my favourite Reacher story, but the notion of the story pulled me right in. With this one, we go back in time. We go back to when Reacher was in the service, showing the male in his role of a military police officer. Of course, when I heard this, I was pulled right in. Throughout the prior books, I have been hoping to find out more about Reacher\u2019s time in uniform. This one didn\u2019t disappoint: it had all the action of the prior books, added in with the military workings. When you put the two aspects together, you have another gripping Jack Reacher read. Despite this, it failed to make it into my favourite Reacher reads list. It was an average read, even though the setting and story had such promise. It just missed out on those things that made some of the other books go the extra mile. It was fun, but it wasn\u2019t enough to leave me crazy excited at the end of every chapter. Overall, another fun addition to the series, yet it is not my favourite. ...more The Enemy takes us back to the earlier days of Jack Reacher, back when was a Military Policeman. So far I have only read Lee Child's first two Reacher books and , and I know in those he starts out as a drifter, so when I read that The Enemy was a prequel, I decided to read it to see if I would learn more about Reacher's background. We are introduced to Reacher's family, his older brother Joe, and his mother who is dying of cancer. While reading the book I kept trying not to picture in my head The Enemy takes us back to the earlier days of Jack Reacher, back when was a Military Policeman. So far I have only read Lee Child's first two Reacher books and , and I know in those he starts out as a drifter, so when I read that The Enemy was a prequel, I decided to read it to see if I would learn more about Reacher's background. We are introduced to Reacher's family, his older brother Joe, and his mother who is dying of cancer. While reading the book I kept trying not to picture in my head Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher. Don't get me wrong Tom Cruise was a good choice to play Reacher, but personally I don't know if I would've picked him. Because for one thing, Lee Child describes Reacher as a tall, muscular, rugged looking man, and here's Tom Cruise who's not really that tall, HAHA! The movie was entertaining nonetheless. If I had my own choice for someone to play Jack Reacher it would have to be Ben Affleck because he's tall and he's gotten really buff since he started playing Batman, so I think he would have been a perfect Jack Reacher! The Enemy had me hooked from the first 10 pages, I couldn't put it down! To me the series just seems to be getting better and better, and that's what I hear a lot of people saying! ...more Another Reacher book started and ended in one day. Could not put it down. I think this is my favorite so far. It is 8th in series, but actually 1st in chronology. It is January 1990 and Reacher is still in the army. We meet his mother and get her backstory, we meet his brother, and the emphasis on how Joe dressed is poignant if you have just read # 7, which I had. I started by listening to these out of order as I just picked them up at the library by whichever was in. BIG MISTAKE! and something Another Reacher book started and ended in one day. Could not put it down. I think this is my favorite so far. It is 8th in series, but actually 1st in chronology. It is January 1990 and Reacher is still in the army. We meet his mother and get her backstory, we meet his brother, and the emphasis on how Joe dressed is poignant if you have just read # 7, which I had. I started by listening to these out of order as I just picked them up at the library by whichever was in. BIG MISTAKE! and something I rarely do. So I started reading from the beginning. This book seems to be written very differently from the others, maybe because Reacher is still in the army. In awe of Child's knowledge of tanks, firearms etc. Since this was written long after the events, I enjoyed Joe's descriptions of what was going to happen in the world in the future. Without spoilers, the Berlin wall falls, Reacher finds himself sent to NC from Panama, several murders occur, and the army is going to have to deal with a changed Europe. I also must add that this is one of the more humorous of the books. Reacher is particularly funny and I was laughing out loud at some parts. Also, a bittersweet book, because we learn why he eventually leaves the army, and oh yeah, a quite surprising ending!! ...more This was the novel that took us back in time to Reacher's army days. As fast paced as the previous books, I couldn't really put it down. I liked the ancillary characters of the Sergeant with the baby and Summer, his attractive sidekick for this book. It follows the standard pattern of a Jack Reacher book - he ends up in trouble, he gets some girl action, lots of people die and it ends up with him carrying on as before, alone (although in the case of this book, demoted and back on service abroad, This was the novel that took us back in time to Reacher's army days. As fast paced as the previous books, I couldn't really put it down. I liked the ancillary characters of the Sergeant with the baby and Summer, his attractive sidekick for this book. It follows the standard pattern of a Jack Reacher book - he ends up in trouble, he gets some girl action, lots of people die and it ends up with him carrying on as before, alone (although in the case of this book, demoted and back on service abroad, rather than back on the road to the next US city). A solid 4* as most Lee Child books seem to be for me. I'm nearly halfway through the series! ...more Another great thriller / murder mystery by Lee Child! This one takes you back in time, when Reacher was still an MP. Several plots are going at the same time that come together in the end. I actually managed to figure things out before the end, which is usually hard with some of the Reacher books. I can't wait to read the next one in the series. This particular book is a prequel to the other books in Lee Child's Jack Reacher series but he has said he thinks it will have more emotional impact if read after the first 7 and before the books that follow and he is right about that. When we first met Jack Reacher in Killing Floor , he had spent 13 years as a military cop and had retired from the Army. He was living a weird life which continued through the next books where he kept getting caught up in mysteries or being asked by some government This particular book is a prequel to the other books in Lee Child's Jack Reacher series but he has said he thinks it will have more emotional impact if read after the first 7 and before the books that follow and he is right about that. When we first met Jack Reacher in Killing Floor , he had spent 13 years as a military cop and had retired from the Army. He was living a weird life which continued through the next books where he kept getting caught up in mysteries or being asked by some government agency (sometimes off the books) to help them solve a crime. He is a big man who wears clothes a few days and then rather than wash them, throws them away. He does not have a driver's license or ID, likes to hitch hike and ride buses, and uses phony names. He is way off the grid. With both parents dead-and his brother Joe dead in Killing Floor, he is both a loner and alone though he manages to have inappropriate sex with one woman per book. Naturally, you ask yourself why someone would be like Reacher. For example, in one book after being left a house, car, and money by the general who treated him like a son, he wanted no part of it. Here in \"The Enemy,\" he turned down a $60,000 inheritance. The man is not normal but he is appealing in his sense of fairness, justice, and protecting the innocent though he seems to manage to murder people in each book with no fair trial. This book takes us back to 1990 just as the last decade of the 20th century begins. The Berlin Wall comes down, the military will now downsize, and cut throats within the military right up to the Secretary of Defense are willing to kill to see that their branches suffer no losses. Reacher finds that he has been suddenly moved from Panama to a hick town in North Carolina right when 19 others are strangely moved on the same day. The orders were signed by General Garber- but actually a forger signed his name to them then sent Garber to Korea! Immediately people start to die, a new and hostile replacement for Garber comes in and tries to cover up the killings, and the Delta Force wants to kill Jack because the new officer lies about who killed one of their guys and their commander. Jack takes up with a lovely and ambitious Lieutenant Summer to help him investigate the goings on including dead gay generals, wives, and more, none who die in any normal way. To add to his distress, Reacher's mother is in Paris dying and he and Summer go AWOL. Here is where we find some unreality. Reacher can just steal some military travel vouchers and manage to travel back and forth to France, Germany, California, Washington DC , Virginia and North Carolina though the signatures are forged and stays in a luxury hotel in France. In fact, people are constantly in North Carolina today, Germany later the same day then on their way to California tomorrow. People don't just bop around like this in the military for no reason. Also, people don't get moved around so quickly for no reason either, especially military cops and Generals (Oh, General, pack it up, you are moving to another country this afternoon). As usual, these books are filled to the brim with action and adventure. When I rate a book, it is how I place it in its genre (this is not high literature!) and I liked this a lot. ...more Lee Child's Jack Reacher books tend to elicit extreme responses. (Boy, that website is something, note how the smoke moving across the page flows from the cigarette of Child on to the nearly shirtless Reacher actor. Steamy!) Anyway, people either love the hard-boiled prose, the violence and the twisty mysteries, or they view the prose as overly staccato, Reacher as an unrealistic superhuman and the violence as disturbing. I count myself in the former group, but I can see how it isn't everyone's Lee Child's Jack Reacher books tend to elicit extreme responses. (Boy, that website is something, note how the smoke moving across the page flows from the cigarette of Child on to the nearly shirtless Reacher actor. Steamy!) Anyway, people either love the hard-boiled prose, the violence and the twisty mysteries, or they view the prose as overly staccato, Reacher as an unrealistic superhuman and the violence as disturbing. I count myself in the former group, but I can see how it isn't everyone's cup of Double Bergamot Earl Grey. I've just read the Enemy, which is a sort of Reacher Origins story, to take a comic book concept. The year is 1990 and Reacher is still an MP. On New Year's Eve, he is called in to investigate the death of an Army general found naked and dead in a no-tell motel. As soon as Reacher tries to investigate he finds himself stymied and in danger, grave danger. The story shows a little of Reacher's family history as well as the starting point for his departure from the Army. We learn that Reacher's military unit is a special police unit that is set outside the normal military chain of command, so that it can better investigate anyone up and down the military hierarchy. This helps explain how the lone wolf Reacher of the books set later in his career could stand to work for an organization like the Army. Child is particularly good at misdirecting the reader, an essential trait in a mystery. While I had a sense of where things were going, he managed a couple of nice surprises. I also quite liked the Army setting. We get a nice does of intra-Army politics and infighting as well as life on the base. I didn't love the ending I have to admit. I liked the very end, as the darker Reacher finally emerges, but the climatic revelations went on a bit long. The ride beforehand is great though. This book could even be a reasonable entry point to the series as it is more reflective of the style of other books in the series than the ghoulish Killing Floor, the first book in the series. ...more Lee Child's Reacher novels are all pretty similar and generally preposterous, but still I find them satisfying. They are great books for beaches and airplanes. In this installment, we step back in time to Reacher's days in the Army as an Executive Officer of the Army Military Police. It's the waning days of the Cold War, January 1990, and Reacher is stationed at an Army Base in North Carolina. On New Year's Eve a General is found dead in a seedy roadside motel, and shortly afterward his wife is Lee Child's Reacher novels are all pretty similar and generally preposterous, but still I find them satisfying. They are great books for beaches and airplanes. In this installment, we step back in time to Reacher's days in the Army as an Executive Officer of the Army Military Police. It's the waning days of the Cold War, January 1990, and Reacher is stationed at an Army Base in North Carolina. On New Year's Eve a General is found dead in a seedy roadside motel, and shortly afterward his wife is murdered. A highly classified agenda for a meeting of top Army brass goes missing. Officers around the world are inexplicably reassigned. Reacher smells a rat, and begins to uncover a massive coverup and internal struggle for power within the upper ranks of the Army. The story has plenty of far-fetched scenarios that could be lifted out of a Steven Seagal movie, but it's balanced by a fast paced plot and great attention to detail. Lee Child always manages to throw a few good twists and turns in there, too. We also learn some very interesting facts about Reacher's mother. Reacher is a little more human, a little less cold vigilante in this one, which I liked. Unlike other crime/thriller series, you don't have to read the Reacher books in the order they were written. Since this one is a flashback, it could also work well as a point of departure in the series, which is pretty clever. ...more Surely feels dated. Before internet; before mobile phones; before asymetrical warfare; before the Fulda Gap became OBE. Is all that fatal to the story? No. Does it detract? A little. This novel does show the pressures that are on DoD during a time of peace: retrenchment, cut-backs, layoffs, loss of prestige and opportunity. But the story exaggerates. Would senior offices resort to murder? Not likely. This novel also gives Reacher the motivation to think about life outside the Army, although it is nev Surely feels dated. Before internet; before mobile phones; before asymetrical warfare; before the Fulda Gap became OBE. Is all that fatal to the story? No. Does it detract? A little. This novel does show the pressures that are on DoD during a time of peace: retrenchment, cut-backs, layoffs, loss of prestige and opportunity. But the story exaggerates. Would senior offices resort to murder? Not likely. This novel also gives Reacher the motivation to think about life outside the Army, although it is never made explicit. On the 'remotely possible' to 'out-right impossible' scale: right next to ori. ...more This story could have been better if Child had not tried to do so much. Generals and Special Forces soldiers are being murdered. People are being treated as chess pieces. The Berlin Wall has fallen and the game is changing and a lot of powerful people don't like it. The sub-plots intrude as Reacher realizes that maybe the choices he's made and the loyalties he took for granted need to be re-assessed. Everything comes to a reasonably satisfying conclusion but I like Reacher better when he's out th This story could have been better if Child had not tried to do so much. Generals and Special Forces soldiers are being murdered. People are being treated as chess pieces. The Berlin Wall has fallen and the game is changing and a lot of powerful people don't like it. The sub-plots intrude as Reacher realizes that maybe the choices he's made and the loyalties he took for granted need to be re-assessed. Everything comes to a reasonably satisfying conclusion but I like Reacher better when he's out there wandering around helping those who need help. Of all the Reacher books, this is most likely the one I liked least. ...more In terms of the Reacher novels, this one surpasses the craftsmanship of most of the others. There is an amazing balance of characters with story-life lines in this book, all relevant and interwoven with quite a lot of expertise. While I know little of the military and what an MP does, Reacher shows a \"softer\" side in this book when he has to deal with the terminal illness and death of his mother...only to discover in himself that a certain strength really is from her, and not his father. I liked In terms of the Reacher novels, this one surpasses the craftsmanship of most of the others. There is an amazing balance of characters with story-life lines in this book, all relevant and interwoven with quite a lot of expertise. While I know little of the military and what an MP does, Reacher shows a \"softer\" side in this book when he has to deal with the terminal illness and death of his mother...only to discover in himself that a certain strength really is from her, and not his father. I liked this book and could easily recommend it to murder mystery reading fans. ...more I really think this was a solid 3. The 2nd half performance of Child came on que as expected. The first half was just a prolonged lengthy setup. This was fairly predictable though, I nailed it early on. The way it was came about was completely interesting though. You can't fail with Jack Reacher, you just end up appreciating him. I think that the series overall is one of the best and there is no reason this book should be skipped. It was good, it only gets 3 stars from be but I if I could break I really think this was a solid 3. The 2nd half performance of Child came on que as expected. The first half was just a prolonged lengthy setup. This was fairly predictable though, I nailed it early on. The way it was came about was completely interesting though. You can't fail with Jack Reacher, you just end up appreciating him. I think that the series overall is one of the best and there is no reason this book should be skipped. It was good, it only gets 3 stars from be but I if I could break it down it would be 3.5, strong. Read on. format- .mobi ...more Painful suspense and an ever-increasing body count keep this one moving, but the perpetrator(s) were obvious as hell from the word go and the usually-dependably-awesome Child climax just failed to happen. This is really remarkable, as even the books I thought were kinda blah like Personal still had awesome action movie endings. The 8th book in the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child. Jack Reacher is an ex military cop who is never far from trouble. If your only experience of Jack Reacher is the poor film with Tom Cruise, don't be put off. This series of books are fast paced and have plenty of action. Didn't really do it for me...Weakest of all the Lee Child books I have read. I'm reading my way through the Jack Reacher books. And there are a lot of them! 1 - 7 seemed to follow a time line. 8 now thrust me back into an earlier time in Reacher's life. I can't wait to see where 9 is set. The stories are engaging, Lee Childs is quite an excellent author. However, reading them one after another does reveal the author's favorite descriptions and \"buzz\" words. Still, they are entertaining, and I'm ready to jump into book 9. Il nemico, in originale \"The Enemy\" \u00e8 un romanzo di Lee Child del 2004, pubblicato in Italia nel 2005 per Longanesi. Il libro costituisce l'ottavo episodio della serie Jack Reacher. Jack Reacher \u00e8 ovviamente un personaggio immaginario dell'autore: \u00e8 un ex Maggiore nel Corpo di Polizia dell'esercito militare degli Stati Uniti, che decide di lasciare all'et\u00e0 di 36 anni per poi cominciare a viaggiare senza una meta fissa in tutti gli Stati Uniti prendendo lavoretti saltuari e per indagare nelle vari Il nemico, in originale \"The Enemy\" \u00e8 un romanzo di Lee Child del 2004, pubblicato in Italia nel 2005 per Longanesi. Il libro costituisce l'ottavo episodio della serie Jack Reacher. Jack Reacher \u00e8 ovviamente un personaggio immaginario dell'autore: \u00e8 un ex Maggiore nel Corpo di Polizia dell'esercito militare degli Stati Uniti, che decide di lasciare all'et\u00e0 di 36 anni per poi cominciare a viaggiare senza una meta fissa in tutti gli Stati Uniti prendendo lavoretti saltuari e per indagare nelle varie situazioni sospette e spesso pericolose che si trover\u00e0 ad affrontare tra capo e collo. Da questo personaggio e dai libri -per adesso solo due- che sono gi\u00e0 stati tutti opzionati dalla Paramount Pictures, \u00e8 gi\u00e0 uscito il primo film con protagonista Tom Cruise. Il personaggio di Lee Child \u00e8 menzionato pi\u00f9 volte anche nel romanzo di Stephen King \u201cUnder the Dome\u201d. Jack Reacher, chiamato semplicemente Reacher anche dalla madre, nasce in una base militare a Berlino in quanto il padre \u00e8 un militare in carriera il 29 ottobre 1960 e verr\u00e0 poi costretto a viaggiare per tutta la sua infanzia e adolescenza in tutto il mondo dovendo seguire il padre che in base alle varie missioni viene assegnato in molteplici basi militare americane. Anche lui entrer\u00e0 nella Accademia Militare di West Point e grazie alle sue straordinarie doti investigative raggiunger\u00e0 il grado di maggiore risolvendo casi eccezionalmente difficili. Guadagner\u00e0 la \u201cBronze Star\u201d, \u201cSuperior Service Medal\u201d, la \u201cLegion of Merit\u201d, una \u201cSilver Star\u201d e la \u201cPurple Heart\u201d per le ferite e le azioni nel bombardamento a Beirut nel 1983. Successivamente lascer\u00e0 l\u2019esercito e diventer\u00e0 un vagabondo errante per l\u2019America; le sue peregrinazioni sono anche spinti dal desiderio di sperimentare il paese ha servito per cos\u00ec tanto tempo, senza mai aver vissuto in esso. Vivr\u00e0 sempre pagando in contanti, vivendo in motel economici, portando nessun bagaglio se non i vestiti che indossa e che abitualmente cambia adattandosi al clima e alle varie localit\u00e0. Reacher \u00e8 alto 1,96 m di altezza e pesa sui 110 Kg. (e qui non si capisce molto come venga scelto Tom Cruise per interpretarlo sul grande schermo), \u00e8 abile in varie forme di arti marziali, abile tiratore e usa la sua notevole intelligenza con la conoscenza tecnica e militare avanzata. Ha una capacit\u00e0 innata di contare il tempo senza fare riferimento a un orologio, che gli consentono di riposare o svegliarsi in qualsiasi momento che sceglie. Ha anche una predisposizione naturale con i numeri, che solleva la possibilit\u00e0 di essere affetto di una forma lieve della sindrome di Savant. Ama il blues, il caff\u00e8 che prende nero e forte in grandi quantit\u00e0. La maggior parte dei romanzi sono ambientati negli Stati Uniti, da grandi aree metropolitane come New York e Los Angeles a piccoli centri della Midwest e del Sud degli Stati Uniti e i romanzi sono scritti sia in prima persona che in terza persona. La trama di questo libro \u00e8 la seguente: Il giorno di Capodanno del 1990, in un motel del North Carolina, un generale a due stelle viene trovato morto. In pochi minuti, Reacher si trover\u00e0 immischiato nella situazione. Ma le cose presto precipetano quando Reacher scopre che la valigetta del generale \u00e8 sparita e la moglie di quest'ultimo viene uccisa anche lei. Reacher si trova ben presto coinvolto in un complesso gioco di tiro alla fune tra i potenti uomini dell'esercito degli Stati Uniti, e non solo. Ora se siete appassionati del genere action-thriller e non avete mai letto un libro di Lee Child, cominciate pure a nascondervi che vi mando Reacher a stanarvi e saranno cazzi acidi per voi. Questo \u00e8 la commistione di James Bond, John Mclane e Rambo, vi basta? Sa fare tutto: usa il cervello, l'istinto, spara, corre, salva il mondo e nel frattempo si tromba il trombabile. A parte gli scherzi, se amate i ritmi incalzanti, descrizioni minuziose di armi e tecniche di combattimento, rocamboleschi colpi di scena e tanta tanta azione, correte in libreria e cominciate a leggere i libri di Lee Child. Vi suggerisco di cominciare dai primi e di andare avanti, perch\u00e9 purtroppo dopo il sesto le trame cominciano a calare un po\u2019 e anche il personaggio perde un po\u2019 di smalto. Questo in particolare della serie, non mi \u00e8 piaciuto per niente e anche se ho continuato a comperare i libri di Reacher mi ha indotto a interromperne le lettura per un bel po'. ...more", "Title": "The Enemy"},
