{"Comments": "The last of the eponymous tetralogy, <+++>Nemesis</+++> is the powerfully written tale of Bucky Cantor and the Newark polio crisis of 1944. Unable to go into the war like his friends primarily due to his poor eyesight, Bucky - a natural athlete- works as a gym teacher and playground director (<---B>do those even exist anymore?</---B>) when the epidemic hits Newark hard. As always Roth's prose is sublime,<---M> his humanity breathtaking</---M>, and his analysis sharp and precise. Roth said that this would be his last book ever and I The last of the eponymous tetralogy, <+++>Nemesis</+++> is the powerfully written tale of Bucky Cantor and the Newark polio crisis of 1944. Unable to go into the war like his friends primarily due to his poor eyesight, Bucky - a natural athlete- works as a gym teacher and playground director (do those even exist anymore?) when the epidemic hits Newark hard. As always Roth's prose is sublime, his humanity breathtaking, and his analysis sharp and precise. Roth said that this would be his last book ever and I must admit that it is a great way to walk off the stage with a short but wonderful book like Nemesis. ...more if i pie-graphed all the (wasted) hours i've spent arguing on this site, a sizable portion would be wedged out to old man roth. he's one of those guys that really drives people batty (call it a flaw, but i really really love those people who drive other people up the wall): whether he's too ironic, too earnest, too jewish, too american, too classical, too postmodern, too stylized, not stylized enough, too white, too old, too liberal, too conservative, or that he's a misogynist, racist, sexist, s if i pie-graphed all the (wasted) hours i've spent arguing on this site, a sizable portion would be wedged out to old man roth. he's one of those guys that really drives people batty (call it a flaw, but i really really love those people who drive other people up the wall): whether he's too ironic, too earnest, too jewish, too american, too classical, too postmodern, too stylized, not stylized enough, too white, too old, too liberal, too conservative, or that he's a misogynist, racist, sexist, self-loathing anti-semite, etc. lotsa people have serious problems with the old bastard. but like morrissey (about the only thing they have in common), those who dig him really dig him. and for those in this camp, i have 2 pieces of good news: 1. in the opening pages of nemesis , in which your typical roth book divvies up the author's work into categories, there appears a new one: SHORT NOVELS. under this heading are his last few: everyman, indignation, the humbling, nemesis . i'm hoping this signifies the end to one of the least interesting chapters in roth's oeuvre. 2. of the four titles under this heading, nemesis is the best. beyond its own merits, it's exciting as it shows roth climbing outta that old-as-fuck self-pitying mode which has dragged down the (pretty) good: everyman , the (truly) bad: exit ghost , and the ugly: the humbling . here's hoping that his next book is one of those big bad complex panoramic novels that roth does better than just about any other living writer. skimming the nytimes review for nemesis , i came across this bit: \"His characters sometimes get caught up in a kind of Socratic M\u00f6bius strip, endlessly debating one another and themselves in a way that can verge on the tedious, but even then one cannot but marvel at his sheer energy, his unremitting investment in \u2014 what? Provocation.<---F> Interrogation</---F>. The feat of living. This is not a nihilist. This is a writer whose creative work lays bare the act of struggle.\" yes. yes. yes. (in vain, i hunted for a lost thread in which mike reynolds - another rothfan - waxed poetic on roth's energy and anger. anyone know where this is?) oh. and here goes a totally irrelevant (but very fun) link to piss off monsieur watkins: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a60D4M... ...more I read this in a day (it was Sunday). Started at 9 in the morning (weather unseasonably cool); finished on the stroke of midnight. I did stop to eat and breathe and watch a movie, but gulping down a short Roth was very invigorating. This novel has a powerful grip for one so short, like an 80 year old grandmother who just won\u2019t let you go. It\u2019s a tragic story of a polio epidemic in 1944 in Newark, New Jersey and I give it four big stars for its urgency, unusual subject and the fact that Philip Ro I read this in a day (it was Sunday). Started at 9 in the morning (weather unseasonably cool); finished on the stroke of midnight. I did stop to eat and breathe and watch a movie, but gulping down a short Roth was very invigorating. This novel has a powerful grip for one so short, like an 80 year old grandmother who just won\u2019t let you go. It\u2019s a tragic story of a polio epidemic in 1944 in Newark, New Jersey and I give it four big stars for its urgency, unusual subject and the fact that <---A>Philip Roth</---A> is NOT banging on about his old withered penis and its uncanny power over women one third his age. That is good news for a reader like me who thinks that Mr Roth is a great writer when he\u2019s not boring us into a state of hyperaggravation about his shrivelled old member and its hypnotic properties. However I did contemplate docking one star for the unhappy lapse into symbolism and crude theological discussions at the end, which went something like \u201cGod is a complete bastard.\u201d \u201cO Bucky, don\u2019t be so childish.\u201d \u201cHmph.\u201d But then I thought no, give Mr Roth back his fourth star. I like to like him, I\u2019m sorry I don\u2019t get the opportunity more often because of his hideous sexual problems. And also, I appreciated, if that is the right word, which it isn\u2019t, the unspoken irony which hangs over the whole story like a leaking zeppelin, which is that this is a sad and touching tale of a handful of deaths in a particular Jewish community and how devastating they are, whilst off-stage, over in Europe, under the cover of the war which is constantly referred to, entire Jewish millions were being slaughtered, entire communities, with no one left to be devastated, no one left at all. ...more I have been thinking about what makes some books stay in my memory... ... even long after I returned them to a library in a town from which I moved away some ten years ago? And why others just fade away to an extent that I could possibly read them again without ever recognising that I have actually met the characters before? Or buy a new copy because I have forgotten I own one already? Philip Roth's \"Nemesis\" is one of those books I remember with force after ten years, and I know why as well. The I have been thinking about what makes some books stay in my memory... ... even long after I returned them to a library in a town from which I moved away some ten years ago? And why others just fade away to an extent that I could possibly read them again without ever recognising that I have actually met the characters before? Or buy a new copy because I have forgotten I own one already? Philip Roth's \"Nemesis\" is one of those books I remember with force after ten years, and I know why as well. The topic is heartbreaking, and very realistic: a polio epidemic in the 1940s, and how it affects the characters over the course of their lives. As such, it is nothing out of the ordinary, just well-written, good, late, short Philip Roth. But when I came to the last page, the book closed the circle of the story with - yes! - a memory of the main character before the the epidemic, and it conjured up this picture in me of all the hopes, dreams, ideas we have when we are young, when our life is still a novel to be written by us, and we imagine it to be a heroic tale with a happy beginning, middle and end (although we do not think of the end, of course, and of the fact that the novel would be outrageously bad, from a literary standpoint!). The memory of the main character's appearance at a time before the tragedy unfolds is of powerful vitality, and it emphasises the weakness that is the main theme of the later plot, - both physical and mental loss. It is so incredibly sad to imagine what comes afterwards, the failure to cope with the realities of life,- or Nemesis, as the title of the novel indicates, referring to ancient Greek drama, where heroes were first put on stage to form our ideal of a perfect life. In fact, that very last sentence of the book has more than one reference to ancient Greek idealism, as it shows the athletic act of throwing a javelin, the Olympic discipline of a body not destroyed by polio. It demonstrates the treacherous belief in humankind's perfectibility that so often is followed by Nemesis' entrance on the stage: \"Running with the javelin aloft, stretching his throwing arm back behind his body, bringing the throwing arm through to release the javelin high over his shoulder \u2014 and releasing it then like an explosion \u2014 he seemed to us invincible.\" The novel closes on that word: invincible... a sad contrapunto to the preceding story of defeat. Invincible, invincible, invincible - that is what made me remember this novel so clearly. It is like the slave standing behind the almighty emperor whispering \"Memento mori\". And yet, the memory of that moment of invincibility is beautiful! And it made the novel memorable as well. The power of words to conjure up dreams... ...more There's nobody less salvageable than a ruined good boy. The gnomic sentence above could have served as the epigraph to Roth's masterpiece American Pastoral , a novel to which this absolutely gorgeous and deeply troubling novelette is, I believe, a terrific B-side. Like Swede Levov in Pastoral , protagonist Bucky Cantor is an upstanding citizen of his mid-20th-century Jewish New Jersey community, athletically gifted and respected by all; and like Swede, Bucky finds himself thrown into the kind of pe There's nobody less salvageable than a ruined good boy. The gnomic sentence above could have served as the epigraph to Roth's masterpiece American Pastoral , a novel to which this absolutely gorgeous and deeply troubling novelette is, I believe, a terrific B-side. Like Swede Levov in Pastoral , protagonist Bucky Cantor is an upstanding citizen of his mid-20th-century Jewish New Jersey community, athletically gifted and respected by all; and like Swede, Bucky finds himself thrown into the kind of personal crisis in which everything he thought he knew -- about himself, about the world, about God -- is violently cast into doubt, a crisis that leads to his undoing. For Swede, the catalyst for such a crisis was an act of terrorism perpetrated by his daughter; for Bucky it's a polio epidemic afflicting the children of Newark in the summer of 1944. In both books, Roth gazes unflinchingly at the effects of inexplicable horror's intrusion into the life of a decent, successful man. But where Pastoral was a devastating sprawl, fussily obsessed with the internal minutiae of a soul in freefall, Nemesis is concentrated and broad, with a big ol' narrative ellipsis between main story and epilogue. That's why I called it a B-side. But the B-side is its own art, and I couldn't ask for a better one than this. The nemesis of the title is God, as Bucky rails against the injustices of fate like the shipwrecked sailors in Stephen Crane's Naturalist classic \"The Open Boat\" , but it's also Bucky himself; the cruel punchline of his tragedy, which makes it almost sadder than Swede Levov's tragedy, is that in ascribing permanent blame to himself for crimes of which no jury in the world would convict him, he actually becomes the agent of his own downfall, fulfills his own irrational prophecy. The ellipsis, which seems to be bothering some readers here, amplifies the effect of this ironic revelation about Bucky; to fill in the details of his life as they occurred rather than in a retrospective postscript would have been to bloat the book unnecessarily. The writing throughout this book is as sharp as any previous Roth I've read, but it's especially beautiful in the game-changing epilogue and lyrical flashback-coda, an inspired passage that could only have come from someone who's still one of our best writers. Make no mistake: as tempting as it is to make fun of him for his continuing solemn fixation on the verities of aging and mortality (and the ridiculous sex of The Humbling , which I gave three stars but which now seems like execrable self-parody), Roth can still write circles around your favorite novelist -- and Nemesis is so good that Roth himself should still be someone's favorite novelist. You earned these five stars, you depressive old geezer! ...more It wasn't great Roth, but I've got to say almost any Roth is going to be pretty damn good. This one focuses on a polio epidemic in 1944. It seems like late in Roth's writing career, after going on one of the greatest runs of 5 star literature ever, Roth spent a decade writing high little novellas that allowed him to explore delicate themes. These books seem to me, the equivalent of Frank Lloyd Wright spending his last years working just on chairs and desks. So, yes, pretty damn good, but in the It wasn't great Roth, but I've got to say almost any Roth is going to be pretty damn good. This one focuses on a polio epidemic in 1944. It seems like late in Roth's writing career, after going on one of the greatest runs of 5 star literature ever, Roth spent a decade writing high little novellas that allowed him to explore delicate themes. These books seem to me, the equivalent of Frank Lloyd Wright spending his last years working just on chairs and desks. So, yes, pretty damn good, but in the end they just aren't the things that will be remembered about Roth. They are his funky chairs, just not his holy houses. ...more N\u00e9mesis es una novela que se desarrolla durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial y que sin duda no dejar\u00e1 indiferente a nadie. Sobre lo dura que fue la p\u00f3leo durante los veranos de los a\u00f1os treinta y cuarenta mientras la guerra ten\u00eda lugar, es una novela con un ritmo trepidante, con un protagonista muy bien construido y con una historia que no dejar\u00e1 indiferente a nadie. Estamos ante una novela que cuenta con un giro incre\u00edble al final, que deja con la boca abierta y que demuestra la virtud del autor a N\u00e9mesis es una novela que se desarrolla durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial y que sin duda no dejar\u00e1 indiferente a nadie. Sobre lo dura que fue la p\u00f3leo durante los veranos de los a\u00f1os treinta y cuarenta mientras la guerra ten\u00eda lugar, es una novela con un ritmo trepidante, con un protagonista muy bien construido y con una historia que no dejar\u00e1 indiferente a nadie. Estamos ante una novela que cuenta con un giro incre\u00edble al final, que deja con la boca abierta y que demuestra la virtud del autor a la hora de escribir mezclando dos tipos de narradores (algo que se descubre al final). El personaje de Bucky me ha parecido sumamente fascinante, construido en torno a su tormento por la culpabilidad que siente tanto por no haber ido a la guerra como por las muertes de sus alumnxs por la p\u00f3leo. Es un personaje redondo, fuerte, con una voz que se desmarca de lo que estamos acostumbradxs y que deja con ganas de m\u00e1s. Me ha encantado ver su evoluci\u00f3n y observar la capacidad que tiene el autor de construirlo. Sin duda N\u00e9mesis ha sido una novela fascinante, que me ha dejado con ganas de leer m\u00e1s obras del autor y sumamente recomendable. Es de esas lecturas duras, reales, cercanas, pero que no se olvidan y que nos hacen recordar aquellos a\u00f1os 30 y 40 donde lxs ni\u00f1xs mor\u00edan por la p\u00f3leo y los adultos por la guerra. ...more FRICKIN FANTASTIC--- If I could pick one author to study ---(read and discuss his books)---in a College University class--- it would be Philip Roth. He gets to me 'Always'.....and \"Nemesis\" is a gem. Rather than add anything else to the already wonderful 'other' 5 star reviews that several people also gave this book.... I'll just say--- I think Roth is one of our very best contemporary American writers we've got! Love how this guys brain works!!! Driiiiin! Suona finalmente la campanella della terza ora, Lucrezia sprofondata in uno stato di narcolessi fin dalla sua entrata a scuola quella mattina, finalmente si riscuote e apre un po di pi\u00f9 gli occhi. Sta per arrivare il momento della sua materia preferita ,dopo la letteratura italiana, letteratura greca. Sebbene detesti la professoressa con tutto il cuore a causa della sua tracotante ignoranza e della sua perfidia, e sebbene spieghi praticamente leggendo dal libro e senza aggiungere un con Driiiiin! Suona finalmente la campanella della terza ora, Lucrezia sprofondata in uno stato di narcolessi fin dalla sua entrata a scuola quella mattina, finalmente si riscuote e apre un po di pi\u00f9 gli occhi. Sta per arrivare il momento della sua materia preferita ,dopo la letteratura italiana, letteratura greca. Sebbene detesti la professoressa con tutto il cuore a causa della sua tracotante ignoranza e della sua perfidia, e sebbene spieghi praticamente leggendo dal libro e senza aggiungere un concetto di suo ,che sia una solenne stupidaggine (come le conferma poi il libro quando ci va a studiare), Lucrezia ascolta interessata, anche se spiega lei, perch\u00e8 la letteratura greca le piace \"assai\" fin da quando balzellava sulle ginocchia del padre a sette anni implorandolo di leggergli ancora una volta il mito di Perseo e Medusa (raggiungendo livelli di eccitazione palpabili quando si arrivava a parlare di Pegaso). Cosi appena la prof apre il libro e comincia a legger...oppps spiegare, Lucrezia tende bene le orecchie, e si concentra. \"Allora ragazzi oggi parliamo di un concetto fondamentale nella letteratura greca la \u1f55\u03b2\u03f1\u03b9\u03c2 (si legge H\u00fdbris), cosa \u00e8 la \u1f55\u03b2\u03f1\u03b9\u03c2? Nella trama della tragedia la \u1f55\u03b2\u03f1\u03b9\u03c2 \u00e8 un evento passato che influenza in modo negativo gli eventi del presente. \u00c8 una \"colpa\" dovuta a un\u2019azione che v\u00ecola leggi divine immutabili, ed \u00e8 la causa per cui, anche a distanza di tempo, i personaggi o la loro discendenza sono portati a commettere crimini o subire azioni malvagie. Strettamente collegata con la \u03bd\u03ad\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b9\u03c2 (n\u00e9mesis) che le consegue direttamente. Cosa \u00e8 la \u03bd\u03ad\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b9\u03c2? Innanzitutto significa \"vendetta degli dei\", \"ira\", \"sdegno\" ,\u00e8 ,quindi, la punizione giustamente inflitta dagli dei a chi si macchia di tracotanza. La \u03bd\u03ad\u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03b9\u03c2 fa nascere nell\u2019individuo proprio quei sentimenti di piet\u00e0 e di terrore che permettono all\u2019animo di purificarsi da tali passioni negative che ogni uomo possiede. La catarsi finale, per Aristotele rappresenta la presa di coscienza dello spettatore, che pur comprendendo i personaggi, raggiunge questa finale consapevolezza distaccandosi dalle loro passioni per raggiungere un livello superiore di saggezza. Il vizio o la debolezza del personaggio portano necessariamente alla sua caduta in quanto predestinata (il concatenamento delle azioni sembra in qualche modo essere favorito dagli d\u00e9i, che non agiscono direttamente, ma ex macchina). La caduta dell\u2019eroe tragico \u00e8 necessaria, perch\u00e9 da un lato possiamo ammirarne la grandezza (si tratta quasi sempre di persone illustri e potenti) e dall\u2019altra possiamo noi stessi trarre profitto dalla storia. Insomma ragazzi la tragedia greca sembrerebbe proprio una mirabile telenovela, di quelle fatte bene\"- \"perch\u00e8 ne esistono?\" Pensa intanto fra s\u00e8 e s\u00e8 Lucrezia cercando di ricordarsene una- \"solo che ha il preciso intendimento di mostrare al cittadino Greco il perfetto standard morale da seguire, che poi sembra dirgli: Senn\u00f2 lo vedi che ti succede!\" Fine delle divagazioni. Quando ho deciso di cominciare questo libro, sono rimasta lungamente a fissare il titolo ricordandomi appunto cosa succede in alcune \"nemesi\" ai miei vecchi amici Greci. Mai nulla di piacevole, ve lo posso assicurare. Ho quindi cominciato il libro carica di presagi, che infatti non tardano a manifestarsi: \"Il primo caso di polio quell'estate si verific\u00f2 agli inizi di giugno, subito dopo il Memorial Day, in un quartiere italiano povero all'altro capo della citt\u00e0 rispetto al nostro. Dall'angolo sudoccidentale di Newark, nella zona ebraica di Weequahic, noi non ne venimmo a conoscenza, e non venimmo a conoscenza nemmeno dei casi successivi, una decina, sparpagliati in quasi tutti i quartieri tranne il nostro. Solo il 4 luglio, quando in citt\u00e0 si registravano gi\u00e0 quaranta casi, sulla prima pagina del quotidiano della sera comparve un articolo dal titolo Autorit\u00e0 sanitaria allerta i genitori contro la polio, in cui si riportavano i consigli alla famiglia del dottor William Kittell, direttore del servizio sanitario locale: tenere sotto stretta osservazione i propri figli e contattare un medico se un bambino mostrava sintomi come mal di testa, mal di gola, nausea, torcicollo, dolori alle articolazioni o febbre...\" Ecco infatti l' allegro incipit e poi di seguito un affascinante dissertazione sulla polio che ho spesso avuto maniera di incontrare in altri romanzi ,ma quasi sempre, come la disgrazia degna di compassione di un personaggio secondario, da tutti nominato con piet\u00e0 e trattato con condiscendenza. Ma ecco che mi ritrovo ad averci a che fare come protagonista! Perch\u00e9 \u00e8 proprio lei la Nemesi del titolo e la vera protagonista del romanzo, e che nemesi! Peccato che non ci avesse pensato uno dei tragediografi Greci! E dire che a quell' epoca la polio gi\u00e0 esisteva... Non incontriamo prima di quattro o cinque pagine dall' inizio il protagonista secondario del nostro romanzo e vale a dire Bucky Cantor. Bucky Cantor \u00e8 il tranquillo animatore di un campo giochi finch\u00e9 la Nemesi non decide di fare la sua conoscenza. Perch\u00e9 proprio con lui? Come andr\u00e0 a finire? Le risposte a queste domande meritano di essere lette nel libro stesso, anche se poi alla fine non \u00e8 detto che siano quelle definitive ne tantomeno quelle giuste. Ma una cosa posso dirvela con certezza, il libro \u00e8 bellissimo. ...more Roth's books are usually dark, unsettling, argumentative, challenging, sexually explicit, political\u2026 well, you get the picture. So not quite what you'd reach for when spending a nice relaxing day swinging in the hammock. Ok, so I haven't got a hammock but I do sometimes reach for a Roth book - mainly when I've had my fill of crime capers and fancy something a little more serious. This novel is set in Newark in the sweltering Summer of 1944, at the time of a polio epidemic. It follows a young man Roth's books are usually dark, unsettling, argumentative, challenging, sexually explicit, political\u2026 well, you get the picture. So not quite what you'd reach for when spending a nice relaxing day swinging in the hammock. Ok, so I haven't got a hammock but I do sometimes reach for a Roth book - mainly when I've had my fill of crime capers and fancy something a little more serious. This novel is set in Newark in the sweltering Summer of 1944, at the time of a polio epidemic. It follows a young man who is not fighting in the war due to poor eyesight and instead becomes a school playground director. His goal is to nurture and protect the young people in his charge and to show them the joys and benefits of sporting activity. What transpires is told beautifully by the author, as we witness the story unfolding through the eyes of one the youngsters who is to become a victim of the outbreak. It's a concise and spare tale but is none the worse for that. So go on - skip the hammock, get yourself cup of tea or a glass of something strong, sit down and have yourself a treat. -------------------------------------------------------------------- December '14: A re-visit to a book that has stayed with me. I'd go as far as to say it's one of the five most memorable books I've read. A sympathetic and sometimes unsettling account set at a time of historic suspicion and suffering. The reflection on human nature - both good and bad - has the ring of complete truth about it. It's easy to believe that the conversations and events depicted here actually happened. It's both a sad tale and an uplifting one. It's a book that creates, in the reader, the need for reflection; the need to ponder on the story and the messages it carries. A good book. No, a great book. One I'll return to again, for sure. ...more Roth\u2019s last book and my first Roth\u2019s book. As any of my school teachers could tell you \u2013 I have absolutely zero respect for authority, so I approached Philip Roth with exactly as much reverence as I would have for any first time writer in their 20s. Additionally, I find Roth\u2019s rabid fanboys the most annoying demographic ever, so if you are one of them you might want to do yourself a favour and stop reading right here. Alright, let\u2019s see what this male Joyce Carol Oates has to offer. As a side not Roth\u2019s last book and my first Roth\u2019s book. As any of my school teachers could tell you \u2013 I have absolutely zero respect for authority, so I approached Philip Roth with exactly as much reverence as I would have for any first time writer in their 20s. Additionally, I find Roth\u2019s rabid fanboys the most annoying demographic ever, so if you are one of them you might want to do yourself a favour and stop reading right here. Alright, let\u2019s see what this male Joyce Carol Oates has to offer. As a side note \u2013 isn\u2019t it interesting how Oates is literally being accused of being over-prolific but no one says that about Roth? This is a review of Nemesis but I\u2019m also now reading American Pastoral and it\u2019s hard not to comment on some obvious similarities. I hope the remaining 30 books of his are about something else. So what do we have here? An all-round American golden boy (even if Jewish) \u2013 athletic, honourable, burdened with a great sense of duty, decent and deprived of any sense of humour, whose life comes apart due to some perverse tragedy that God Roth sends his way. Roth, himself generously endowed in the irony department, deprives his golden boys of any sense of it, which in turn makes them so tragic. They cannot comprehend their own failure and the injustice of fate. The above is true for both American Pastoral (or at least the first 120 pages of it I\u2019ve read so far) and Nemesis. But let\u2019s now focus on the latter one. Roth starts it with a plural first person narrator but, thank God, it\u2019s just an opening gambit, quickly abandoned. I\u2019m all for experimentation but a plural first person narrator is mind numbing. It\u2019s a summer in 1940s and the town of Newark is struck with an epidemic of polio. The first half of the book is gripping, emotional and authentic. It\u2019s the sort of story that you have to keep reminding yourself is just a book of fiction so as not to cry for all the broken lives there. The only false note there was Bucky\u2019s, the book\u2019s hero, questioning and eventually rejecting God. It just seemed so out of character for him that for a moment he sounded like a mouthpiece for someone else. The story is still told by a rather mysterious first person narrator, who is really just an insignificant observer (another similarity with American Pastoral) and we forget about him until the final part of this book where he suddenly makes his presence known and comes forward to literally explain the whole thing to us. Now, I can see that this sort of fourth wall breaking is very much part of Roth\u2019s style but completely unprepared at the time I had a very \u2018WTF\u2019 reaction to it. Completely abandoning the golden rule of \u2018show, not tell\u2019, the narrator proceeds to explain to the reader what Bucky was all about and what it all meant, how his big sense of responsibility was the cause of his downfall, etc., just in case the reader missed the point. Frankly, I was irritated and felt I was being patronised by the freaking narrator who didn\u2019t trust me to get the book without him beating me on the head with the explanation. It didn\u2019t work for me, it took me out of the story and also I\u2019m out of a job as a reviewer, because Roth\u2019s already reviewed the book in its final chapters. Something similar happens in American Pastoral, where the narrator is at the same the author who writes the book but it\u2019s done a lot better there. Clever, even. All in all \u2013 great book, shame about the ending. PS. My favourite quote - \u201cSo unschooled was he in extravagance that he took the presence in a house of more than one bathroom as the height of luxurious living.\u201d This was true for me as well. I remember when I first visited a house with two bathrooms I was absolutely blown away and decided it was a benchmark of having made it in life. PPS. In an interview posted on Paris review website Roth says: \u201cBut you know, I don\u2019t believe that the biography of a writer has anything to do with his books.\u201d I mean, LOL, Roth, LOL. (In another interview from 2010 Roth says he would never stop writing because how could he). ...more Helle, meet Philip. Philip, meet Helle. Except of course, Philip Roth has not met me \u2013 but I have certainly met him. His is one those names that have been hovering on my horizon for years, but after abandoning Portnoy\u2019s Complaint years ago (vowing that I\u2019d get back to it when I was a more mature reader), I kept putting it off, suspecting he wasn\u2019t really my kind of thing. I\u2019m still not sure that he is, but I\u2019m glad to have met him. The novel is a portrait of polio and its ravaging effects in 1940 Helle, meet Philip. Philip, meet Helle. Except of course, Philip Roth has not met me \u2013 but I have certainly met him. His is one those names that have been hovering on my horizon for years, but after abandoning Portnoy\u2019s Complaint years ago (vowing that I\u2019d get back to it when I was a more mature reader), I kept putting it off, suspecting he wasn\u2019t really my kind of thing. I\u2019m still not sure that he is, but I\u2019m glad to have met him. The novel is a portrait of polio and its ravaging effects in 1940s America, more specifically in a Jewish neighbourhood in Newark during the summer of 1944. As we know, polio was a nasty disease that attacked mainly children, sometimes paralyzing them, sometimes killing them. For years, nobody had any idea of how it spread, and fear became a constant side-effect. This is the background for the story, as the children around a sweltering Newark playground are trying to pass the summer while Bucky Cantor, their athletic mentor and friend, tries to ward off the epidemic and keep up everybody\u2019s spirit. He begins to wonder what kind of god would do something like this to children and gradually ponders life choices that may or may not have cataclysmic results (hence the title). Meanwhile, Bucky\u2019s girlfriend is at a safe summer camp up in the cooler mountains, insisting that he join her. Their love is palpable, their happiness an almost too-happy antidote to the horror of the polio epidemic, not to mention the war in Europe, which Bucky couldn\u2019t join because of poor eyesight. His best friends are there, and though he feels guilty for not being able to sign up, he tries to make a difference at home. But how does he choose between the children who are caught in the maelstrom of polio and his girlfriend who offers him the glimpse of a life he had previously only dreamed of? The novel began quietly and seemed, at first, to be a general description of polio. I was mildly interested. Then Bucky entered the story, and things perked up. But Bucky doesn\u2019t offer much in the way of interiority, and though it\u2019s well written with sentences like: The four o\u2019clock sun was no less punishing than the twelve o\u2019clock sledgehammer. The lake was fed by natural springs. The words sounded like the name of an earthly wonder: natural springs \u2013 yet another way of saying \u201cno polio\u201d. there is something flat or wooden about the storytelling. I was almost the only one in my reading group who liked the novel; everyone else felt more or less unmoved by it despite the topic. It partly has to do with Bucky\u2019s somewhat insipid character, I believe, and his overly responsible, guilt-ridden take on life but also the aforementioned lack of true interiority. Mainly, though, it has to do with the narration. The first person narrator who begins the novel doesn\u2019t show itself again until the end when the novel falls flat on its face to me because the voice simply tells us what happened. This framing device had the effect of sucking out the life of the rest of the story to me and left me deducting a star (which had tentatively been there for a while). A pretty good and interesting book about a topic that I\u2019d never read about before. It must be one of the only novels that take place between 1939 and 1945 which is not about World War II. That alone makes it an interesting portrait of a time. So thanks for the story, Philip. Not sure when we\u2019ll meet again. ...more This is a frightening story about a polio epidemic that spreads throughout the Jewish community of Newark during the excruciating hot summer of 1944, and the struggles of 23 year old Bucky Cantor who's 4-F military status keeps him from joining his buddies in the war. Bucky, a physical education teacher, is an extremely conscientious and kind-hearted young man who sincerely cares for the children in his care and is well-liked and admired for his athletic ability and easy-going ways in return, but This is a frightening story about a polio epidemic that spreads throughout the Jewish community of Newark during the excruciating hot summer of 1944, and the struggles of 23 year old Bucky Cantor who's 4-F military status keeps him from joining his buddies in the war. Bucky, a physical education teacher, is an extremely conscientious and kind-hearted young man who sincerely cares for the children in his care and is well-liked and admired for his athletic ability and easy-going ways in return, but as his \"kids\" become infected, he continually questions his decisions, and fights a guilt-ridden battle within himself and his beliefs. Within these short 300 pages is a powerful, often intense unforgettable read! ...more N ot quite living to my E xpectations of Roth, Nemesis M eets the demand of his faithful readers and delivers an E nd to a prestigious career. It is a S tory of hysteria, sickness and sadness; I ntertwining reminiscence with a moral conclusion. S imple, superfluous mostly, but still Roth-esque in nature. My 6th read book by Philip Roth and he is still to disappoint. In fact, next to his The Human Stain (4 stars), this is one of his better novels for me. This is the story of a 23-y/o Jewish orphan man Eugene \"Bucky\" Cantor who wants to go to war to defend his country but he is short and with poor eyesight. Instead applies to be the playground officer of the Jewish Weequahic section in Newark. The year was in 1944, eight years before the discovery of polio vaccine. While his friends are either in E My 6th read book by Philip Roth and he is still to disappoint. In fact, next to his The Human Stain (4 stars), this is one of his better novels for me. This is the story of a 23-y/o Jewish orphan man Eugene \"Bucky\" Cantor who wants to go to war to defend his country but he is short and with poor eyesight. Instead applies to be the playground officer of the Jewish Weequahic section in Newark. The year was in 1944, eight years before the discovery of polio vaccine. While his friends are either in Europe or in Germany, Bucky contents himself with the thought that he is serving his country by taking care of the boys enjoying their summer under the heat of the sun. Then the polio epidemic comes and it changed everything that Bucky believes and even challenges his faith on everything that he holds dear. Roth's strength is in his plot. Just like \"The Human Stain\" or \"American Pastoral,\" his story here is about ordinary human beings but the ordinariness of their lives is suddenly threatened by something extraordinary, i.e., polio epidemic. Roth interweaves his ordinary characters to this extraordinary stimulus producing a brilliant plot. There is nothing new of the book's theme: conscience. This reminded me of novels with a Raskolnikov-like characters having a dilemma on whether what he is doing is right or wrong. Then the twist in the end is something like guilt Briony Tallis in Ian McEwan's Atonement (4 stars). When something that you have come to believe in for a long period of time is challenged by the fact that you cannot deny even to yourself. The ending is the best part of the plot. I just did not anticipate that. It felt rushed up in a way but I guess Roth was already able to convey his message even prior to that ending. There are no thought-provoking lines that are nice to capture in the review. As I already told you, the story seems to be ordinary but the storytelling is something that will make you leaf through the pages until you get to the last part and even feel sad that it ends. I am looking forward to another book by him. Aside from the Jewish characters, he seems not to be among the novelist who rewrite themselves. Every book by him is different and a joy to read. ...more It is the summer of 1944. While a world war rages across the Atlantic and Pacific, a different war is fought on the home front. In the blistering heat of that summer Polio reappears in Newark, New Jersey. Its origin is unknown. Its effects are horrifying as anxious parents watch their children fall ill overnight. Bucky Cantor is a college graduate, a phys-ed teacher in charge of a New Jersey playground. Cantor is 4-F because of his poor eyesight. He is ashamed to be seen on the street in civilian It is the summer of 1944. While a world war rages across the Atlantic and Pacific, a different war is fought on the home front. In the blistering heat of that summer Polio reappears in Newark, New Jersey. Its origin is unknown. Its effects are horrifying as anxious parents watch their children fall ill overnight. Bucky Cantor is a college graduate, a phys-ed teacher in charge of a New Jersey playground. Cantor is 4-F because of his poor eyesight. He is ashamed to be seen on the street in civilian clothes. His closest friends are somewhere in France and he wishes he could be with them. Although Bucky cannot battle fascism overseas, he finds his own battlefield on the playground as his young charges fall prey to the nemesis of Polio. Roth has created a beautiful story of responsibility and heroism exhibited in a manner not recognized in war time America. In church a singer is known as a Cantor. In the synagogue the role is filled by a Hazzan. However, Bucky is a singer in his own right as we hear his thoughts as he listens to Kaddish sung for his young students. Cantor rages against God for his creation of the deadly virus. These are thoughts he keeps to himself, recognizing that speaking them aloud will only strip bereaved parents of the small comfort afforded them in their children's funeral services. Roth examines duty, love and loss with a degree of warmth I have rarely found in his previous works. In \"Nemesis,\" Roth places great scenes of happiness next to scenes of total despair, just as we all experience in life. I highly recommend Roth's eloquent exploration of one man's struggle to face life at its most challenging. ...more Now that the Grecian-tragedy scaffolding of Roth's recent novellas is finally clear (Coetzee lays it out very simply in his NYRB review, and Roth himself now groups these works together as his Nemeses books), I have to say I like the idea in theory. But like all the other books in what has shaped up to be a series, this latest work's strong premise is undone by an ultimately enervated performance. Roth's energy really does seem to be finally flagging. The way the author practically throws the st Now that the Grecian-tragedy scaffolding of Roth's recent novellas is finally clear (Coetzee lays it out very simply in his NYRB review, and Roth himself now groups these works together as his Nemeses books), I have to say I like the idea in theory. But like all the other books in what has shaped up to be a series, this latest work's strong premise is undone by an ultimately enervated performance. Roth's energy really does seem to be finally flagging. The way the author practically throws the story away here\u2014via a narrator who waits till the third act to speak up and then proceeds to analyze and dismiss the hero we've been following for 200 pages\u2014is as anticlimactic a bailing-out as anything this side of McCarthy's WTF ending to No Country for Old Men. Having said all that, I found this the most pleasant read Roth's managed to put together in a long time. He may blow the tragic finale, but the evocations of mid-century Newark are as good as ever, and the contrast between the polio outbreak's spread through a steamy city playground and a \"safe\" Catskills camp is expertly done. Roth nails the feeling of summer, of that special, electric humidity of human beings, especially kids, playing under the sun. * * * Update: Apparently the old man has given up writing\u2014his work these days consists of cataloging his papers for his handpicked biographer\u2014so Nemesis is going to be his final book. ...more La freccia invisibile \u201cMa adesso non era pi\u00f9 un bambino, ed era in grado di comprendere che la ragione per cui le cose non avrebbero potuto essere diverse andava imputata a Dio. Se non fosse stato per Dio, se non fosse stato per la natura di Dio, le cose sarebbero state diverse\u201d. Escluso dalla guerra, orfano di madre e segnato da un'inestinguibile senso del dovere, Bucky Cantor vive con eroismo e ostinazione la torrida estate del New Jersey che segner\u00e0 per sempre la sua irrecuperabile e terribile La freccia invisibile \u201cMa adesso non era pi\u00f9 un bambino, ed era in grado di comprendere che la ragione per cui le cose non avrebbero potuto essere diverse andava imputata a Dio. Se non fosse stato per Dio, se non fosse stato per la natura di Dio, le cose sarebbero state diverse\u201d. Escluso dalla guerra, orfano di madre e segnato da un'inestinguibile senso del dovere, Bucky Cantor vive con eroismo e ostinazione la torrida estate del New Jersey che segner\u00e0 per sempre la sua irrecuperabile e terribile esistenza. Siamo nel 1944, la seconda guerra mondiale non risparmia nessuno, nemmeno chi combatte una guerra interna contro un nemico che assume fattezze metafisiche, tale quale un flagello divino, la poliomielite. Malattia epidemica che contagia come una nemesi i bambini, falcidiandone i corpi innocenti e le giovani speranze. Ed \u00e8 cos\u00ec che il protagonista affronta la tragedia, con spirito di sacrificio e determinazione, come da severa educazione del nonno: se non che, mentre una luminosa forza resta sospesa tra senso di colpa e vergogna, aprendo le porte a un'esistenza felice, la vita si rivela pi\u00f9 crudele della pi\u00f9 maligna delle previsioni e si trasforma in maniera irreparabile in qualcosa di ineluttabile: un'assenza senza repliche, un esilio perpetuo, un rifiuto inevitabile. \u201cMa nessuno \u00e8 pi\u00f9 irrecuperabile di un bravo ragazzo che si \u00e8 rovinato. Per troppo tempo se n'era stato da solo con il suo senso della realt\u00e0 \u2013 e senza tutto quello che aveva cos\u00ec disperatamente voluto \u2013 perch\u00e9 io potessi cancellare la sua interpretazione del terribile evento della sua vita o modificare la sua relazione con esso\u201d. ...more \"Dio era un essere onnipotente che riuniva in un'unica entit\u00e0 divina non tre persone, come nel cristianesimo, ma due: uno stronzo depravato e un genio del male\". Il dialogo sulla malvagit\u00e0 di Dio \u00e8 il tema centrale del romanzo, anche se Roth, fortunatamente, non ha insistito in modo esagerato sulla questione e ha lasciato che si facesse strada nei pensieri del protagonista un poco alla volta. Bucky Cantor vede il Dio ebraico come un essere malvagio e imperfetto, come un criminale, come il respo \"Dio era un essere onnipotente che riuniva in un'unica entit\u00e0 divina non tre persone, come nel cristianesimo, ma due: uno stronzo depravato e un genio del male\". Il dialogo sulla malvagit\u00e0 di Dio \u00e8 il tema centrale del romanzo, anche se Roth, fortunatamente, non ha insistito in modo esagerato sulla questione e ha lasciato che si facesse strada nei pensieri del protagonista un poco alla volta. Bucky Cantor vede il Dio ebraico come un essere malvagio e imperfetto, come un criminale, come il responsabile dell'epidemia di poliomielite. Perch\u00e9 Dio avrebbe dovuto creare una malattia del genere? Perch\u00e9 Dio avrebbe dovuto permettere che questa malattia si portasse via i bambini e i ragazzini, i migliori del mondo, la nuova generazione americana? Bucky \u00e8 un uomo che tenta di combattere l'ineluttabilit\u00e0 della vita e del destino. E' una guerra ben diversa da quella che combattono i suoi due migliori amici, nella Francia del 1944. A Bucky \u00e8 stato vietato di arruolarsi perch\u00e9 la sua vista era troppo debole e aveva bisogno degli occhiali. Cos\u00ec rimane a casa, e la guerra che si trova a combattere, la guerra contro un nemico invisibile, la polio, \u00e8 impossibile da vincere. Bucky \u00e8 una figura umana meravigliosamente descritta. Credo che nessuno, o quasi, al posto suo si sarebbe comportato in maniera diversa. La scrittura \u00e8 perfetta. Ogni parola \u00e8 l\u00ec dove deve essere. Questo libro \u00e8 musica per le orecchie del lettore. E' un romanzo senza pecche, un meccanismo che gira fino alla fine e non si intoppa mai. La storia, toccante, si dipana davanti agli occhi del lettore mano a mano che le pagine si assottigliano. E' quasi un dispiacere rendersi conto che stanno finendo. A me ha messo addosso una tristezza infinita. Ho pianto un sacco e ancora mi viene da piangere. Mi basta pensare all'impotenza di un ragazzo di ventitr\u00e9 anni davanti a un nemico invisibile che gli porta via i ragazzini a cui insegna a fare sport. Penso a come ci si deve sentire. Penso a cosa si prova a vedere giovani vite andarsene nel giro di ventiquattro ore. E penso a cosa direi a me stesso. \"Dove ho sbagliato? Cosa non ho fatto che si potesse fare per evitare questa catastrofe?\". L'amore, un amore tenerissimo e infinito come pu\u00f2 esserlo un amore tra un ragazzo di 23 anni e una ragazza di 22, contribuisce a dare alla storia quel senso tragico e drammatico che era gi\u00e0 dato dalla terribile malattia. \"Un weekend di fine autunno, mentre il resto della famiglia era a Deal, quando, intorno alle quattro del sabato pomeriggio, con le tende abbassate nella camera da letto di Goldsmith Avenue, lui aveva preso la sua verginit\u00e0 - e perso la propria -, lei dopo gli aveva sussurrato: \u00abBucky, insiegnami il sesso\u00bb, come se dei due fosse lei la pi\u00f9 inesperta. Dopodich\u00e9 erano rimasti per ore a letto - il suo letto, aveva pensato lui [...] Sdraiati faccia a faccia nel letto a baldacchino, continuarono a raccontarsi le loro storie fino all'imbrunire, e poi nel buio, finch\u00e9 entrambi non ebbero detto pressoch\u00e9 tutto quel che avevano da dire e si furono rivelati all'altro nel modo pi\u00f9 completo. Poi, come se non fosse gi\u00e0 abbastanza ammaliato da lei, Marcia gli sussurr\u00f2 all'orecchio una cosa che aveva appena scoperto: - Questo \u00e8 l'unico modo di parlare, vero?\" Roth \u00e8 un maestro nello scrivere e chiunque desideri dilettarsi in questa disciplina dovrebbe leggere questo romanzo. E' un romanzo completo. Perfetto dalla prima riga all'ultima. Le ultime due pagine, anzi, sono un esempio di altissima scrittura. Una luce nell'immondezzaio che troviamo spesso in libreria. Un capolavoro di altri tempi, un gioiellino per umanit\u00e0, bravura e comprensione dell'animo umano. Leggetelo, leggetelo e leggetelo. ...more Nemesis is set in the Jewish Weequahic section of Newark during a polio epidemic in the summer of 1944. Bucky Cantor is a strong, earnest young man who feels guilty that he is unable to fight in World War II due to poor eyesight. He is spending his summer working as a playground director for a large group of boys. The people of Newark are upset as polio spreads through their city, and they don't know how it is spread or how to cure it. Blame is placed on the Italians, the Jews, dirty stores, and Nemesis is set in the Jewish Weequahic section of Newark during a polio epidemic in the summer of 1944. Bucky Cantor is a strong, earnest young man who feels guilty that he is unable to fight in World War II due to poor eyesight. He is spending his summer working as a playground director for a large group of boys. The people of Newark are upset as polio spreads through their city, and they don't know how it is spread or how to cure it. Blame is placed on the Italians, the Jews, dirty stores, and the playgrounds by the hysterical parents of the stricken children. At a funeral for a boy from the playground, Bucky cannot understand the cruelty of God in allowing the existence of such a terrible disease. The unanswerable question is whether we are victims of circumstance, or victims of an uncaring God. Bucky's girlfriend Marcia begs him to come work in the relative safety of a summer camp in the Poconos, and he finally gives in to her wishes, but with a strong sense of guilt. Not only is Bucky unable to fight in the war, but he feels he has also run away from his duty in Newark. We are far along into the book before we find out the identity of the narrator of the story. The narrator's experiences provide a contrast to the way Bucky handled a tragic situation, denying himself any happiness. The narrator closes with a beautiful memory of Bucky in his prime, an invincible man throwing the javelin which arcs like an arrow. It seems symbolic of Bucky's unproven idea that he was an arrow that was a carrier of polio to the children. In the background of the polio story, World War II is being fought with its victims also being maimed or buried. There is more than one nemesis in this book. The same questions about blame, duty, guilt, and an uncaring God can be asked about the war. Roth has also included many warm scenes and people in this book such as Bucky's caring grandparents, the close Jewish neighborhood, the loving Marcia and her family, and the optomistic narrator. So Nemesis does not have the feel of a terribly dark book, but rather a look back into a part of history, set in Roth's hometown when he was a young adult. I found it to be an interesting read. ...more Roth non sbaglia un colpo e questo romanzo ne \u00e8 l'ennesima dimostrazione. \"Nemesi\" \u00e8 un romanzo sui sensi di colpa, sulla colpa di un giovane che si chiede cosa avrebbe potuto fare se... Un se che pone mille domande, un se che porta a chiedersi cosa fare, un se dai mille dubbi. Lo stile di Roth \u00e8, come sempre perfetto. Ogni parola si trova esattamente al posto giusto per lasciare sbigottito il lettore. Una storia intrisa di malinconia e tristezza che tocca il cuore. Una storia che vale la pena d Roth non sbaglia un colpo e questo romanzo ne \u00e8 l'ennesima dimostrazione. \"Nemesi\" \u00e8 un romanzo sui sensi di colpa, sulla colpa di un giovane che si chiede cosa avrebbe potuto fare se... Un se che pone mille domande, un se che porta a chiedersi cosa fare, un se dai mille dubbi. Lo stile di Roth \u00e8, come sempre perfetto. Ogni parola si trova esattamente al posto giusto per lasciare sbigottito il lettore. Una storia intrisa di malinconia e tristezza che tocca il cuore. Una storia che vale la pena di essere letta, una storia targata Roth, uno scrittore geniale che \u00e8 meglio non vi lasciate sfuggire. ...more \"Devo dire che, per quanta compassione possa provare per il cumulo di calamit\u00e0 che gli aveva rovinato la vita, non si tratta d'altro che di stupida superbia, non la superbia della volont\u00e0 o del desiderio ma la superbia di un'infantile, irreale interpretazione religiosa\" Gi\u00e0, quanti danni ha fatto a ogni singolo uomo e al mondo intero quel voler essere tutti di un pezzo che non \u00e8 altro che incapacit\u00e0 di gioire del mondo, nella buona e nella cattiva sorte. Un libro indimenticabile. I hadn't read anything by Philip Roth since his 1991 memoir, Patrimony, and so picked up this short novel on an impulse last week, and I'm glad I did. Nemesis isn't a terribly important part of his oeuvre, but it does tug at the emotions. I started reading it while having lunch alone in a busy restaurant and within the first 40 pages, I found myself getting all teary-eyed and upset until my entrec\u00f4te de boeuf arrived and I was able to calm myself with a bit of red-meat mastication. The talent and I hadn't read anything by Philip Roth since his 1991 memoir, Patrimony, and so picked up this short novel on an impulse last week, and I'm glad I did. Nemesis isn't a terribly important part of his oeuvre, but it does tug at the emotions. I started reading it while having lunch alone in a busy restaurant and within the first 40 pages, I found myself getting all teary-eyed and upset until my entrec\u00f4te de boeuf arrived and I was able to calm myself with a bit of red-meat mastication. The talent and skill of Roth in eliciting such a strong emotional response is what makes him so controversial as a writer. Praised and condemned, loved and loathed, Roth gets into your head and heart and delivers a powerful reading experience no matter what the subject matter. Nemesis gives us a tragic look at a polio outbreak in 1944 New Jersey that devastated a community and destroyed the spirit of 23-year-old Mr. Cantor, the focus of this short book. Orphaned at birth, \"Bucky\" Cantor is raised to honor his place as a man in a difficult world, challenged by lack of birth parents, physical limitations, and the antisemitism of mid-century America, Bucky rises as high as he can go until his invisible, incomprehensible nemesis - polio - arrives to take his life apart one element at a time. A good read for anyone who appreciates a writer at the top of his profession. ...more c\u00e2u chuy\u1ec7n th\u00ec r\u1ea5t bi k\u1ecbch, c\u00f2n g\u00ec bi k\u1ecbch h\u01a1n khi tr\u1ebb con b\u1ecb ch\u1ebft v\u00ec b\u1ec7nh d\u1ecbch h\u00e0ng lo\u1ea1t, \u0111en t\u1ed1i kinh kh\u1ee7ng, c\u0169ng c\u00f3 r\u1ea5t nhi\u1ec1u chi ti\u1ebft c\u1ea3m \u0111\u1ed9ng nh\u01b0ng n\u00f3i chung l\u00e0 truy\u1ec7n k\u1ec3 h\u01a1i b\u1ecb ch\u00e1n. kh\u00f4ng n\u1ee1 cho 2sao th\u1ef1c ra ch\u1ec9 \u0111\u00e1ng 2sao r\u01b0\u1ee1i, c\u0169ng ch\u1ea3 bu\u1ed3n vi\u1ebft c\u1ea3 review \u0111\u1ec3 m\u00e0 ch\u00ea. kh\u00f4ng \u0111\u1ecdc c\u0169ng ch\u1ea3 m\u1ea5t g\u00ec, kh\u00f4ng ph\u1ea3i l\u00e0 cu\u1ed1n xu\u1ea5t s\u1eafc. \u00e0 qu\u00ean l\u00e0 k\u1ebft c\u1ee5c h\u01a1i b\u1ecb h\u00e3m. ch\u1ea3 ra l\u00e0m sao. I enjoyed the old-fashioned narrative style of this book, which fits the time and the subject matter: a strapping 23-yr-old Jewish man, Bucky Cantor who, passed over for the draft due to poor eyesight, lands a job as a playground director in a Newark suburb during a 1944 polio epidemic. Despite his attempts to protect his young charges, Bucky watches many of them succumb to the disease. He struggles with guilt and questions his religion after his fiance lures him from his playground job to a \"sa I enjoyed the old-fashioned narrative style of this book, which fits the time and the subject matter: a strapping 23-yr-old Jewish man, Bucky Cantor who, passed over for the draft due to poor eyesight, lands a job as a playground director in a Newark suburb during a 1944 polio epidemic. Despite his attempts to protect his young charges, Bucky watches many of them succumb to the disease. He struggles with guilt and questions his religion after his fiance lures him from his playground job to a \"safer\" position as a director at a camp in the Poconos. When one of the camp kids comes down with polio, Bucky decides he might be a polio carrier, and asks to be tested. The end of the story finds him broken and bitter, and still struggling with the questions of guilt and faith that plague him throughout the story. This book kept me reading late into the night, so vivid were the descriptions of the paranoia and uncertainty during the summers when the disease was rampant. Roth creates a heroic martyr in Bucky, but does it in a way that is entirely believable and, thus, exceedingly poignant. I grew up in the 50's and remember receiving both the Salk vaccine injections and the Saben oral vaccine (given to us in sugar cubes by the nuns at my Catholic elementary school). So, this story brought me back to my own childhood and made me remember a time when polio was still feared and very much in the news. I admire the details in Roth's writing; for those who have family members who suffered with polio, or who remember that time themselves, this book is definitely worth reading. ...more Philip Roth is a masterful writer, but this book was just weird. The first part was a great story about the devastating effect of polio on the Jewish section of Newark, New Jersey in the 1940's. Bucky Cantor, the playground supervisor, who was kept out of the army by his poor sight,feels guilty as he watches young kids get sick and die. In the middle section, he joins his girlfriend as a swim coach at a camp in the mountains. He spends most of his time feeling guilty for abandoning his charges in Philip Roth is a masterful writer, but this book was just weird. The first part was a great story about the devastating effect of polio on the Jewish section of Newark, New Jersey in the 1940's. Bucky Cantor, the playground supervisor, who was kept out of the army by his poor sight,feels guilty as he watches young kids get sick and die. In the middle section, he joins his girlfriend as a swim coach at a camp in the mountains. He spends most of his time feeling guilty for abandoning his charges in the city. Then, Polio hits the camp and he is convinced he brought it there. He goes in for a test and is immediately diagnosed with Polio. In the last section, we find him 25 years later, leading a life of desperation. He basically decided that he was unlovable because of his handicap and would spend his life quietly waiting for death. We are led to believe that he had not grown or changed emotionally and was going to live his life based on decisions made at the age of 23. So, there was lots of discussion of guilt and why God lets good people die. But, optimism and the ability to grow and change is lacking. It was a pretty sad book. ...more When I saw a copy of this at the library, I was pretty excited. Originally, I had planned to review a digital ARC of this through NetGalley, but they pulled it from their list for whatever reason. Nemesis , written by the same icon of Jewish-American literature who brought you Portnoy's Complaint , examines the Jewish-American experience during the 1944 polio epidemic. We see the disease spread from urban New Jersey to rural Pennsylvania, ravaging in particular the Weequahic section of Newark. Buc When I saw a copy of this at the library, I was pretty excited. Originally, I had planned to review a digital ARC of this through NetGalley, but they pulled it from their list for whatever reason. Nemesis , written by the same icon of Jewish-American literature who brought you Portnoy's Complaint , examines the Jewish-American experience during the 1944 polio epidemic. We see the disease spread from urban New Jersey to rural Pennsylvania, ravaging in particular the Weequahic section of Newark. Bucky Cantor, playground coordinator and athlete extraordinaire, spends much of this book running from conflict. He declines to join his friends in military enlistment, he runs from Weequahic when the polio epidemic intensifies, and he runs from Marcia, his fianc\u00e9e, when he falls victim to polio himself. He seems to be, on many levels, impotent; he tells us so himself. But is he really? Native American symbols abound in the latter half of this book, when the Poconos camp where he works engages in some Native American roleplaying. When polio strikes the camp, he believes himself to be the \"invisible arrow\" (a term borrowed from Native American epidemiology) that brought the illness to the camp from the city. Although doctors try to reassure him that the odds of this are slight, Bucky revels in \"self-castigation,\" and Marcia later calls him out on this inherent masochism. The \"arrow\" imagery insinuates potency, virility. It is all but phallic. So while Bucky is powerless to navigate his own relationships and quick to dodge potential conflict, perhaps the \"invisible arrow\" identity allows him to feel a certain measure of power. Perhaps it is not self-loathing, but self-indulgent. Powerlessness is one of the prominent themes at work in this story. Parents withdraw their children from playgrounds and camps to protect them from polio. People yearn so deeply for a culprit, an epidemiological scapegoat they can identify and subsequently avoid, that they point fingers at restaurant hot dogs. Lawmakers consider quarantining entire communities to stop the spread of the virus. People like Bucky flee the cities in hopes of avoiding infection. None of these measures proves to be particularly effective. No one can suppress the biological realities of polio. Also of note is Bucky's crisis of faith as the epidemic intensifies. He becomes something of an agnostic clich\u00e9, turning his anger on his god when polio hits close to home. His anger, his powerlessness, and a sense of self-blame more virulent than the polio itself ruin him. The disease ravages his body, but it is his mind that reduces him to the bitter cynic he becomes. Polio robs him of loved ones and of his once-athletic body, but he robs himself of a life with Marcia. The book ends with a memory from Arnold Mesnikoff, the former student of Bucky who narrates parts of this story. Even after running into Bucky decades after the epidemic and witnessing his bitterness firsthand, he remembers him differently in the end. We are left not with the image of a crippled, impotent version Bucky, but a youthful, healthy one who could throw a javelin with expert precision. Bucky has no narrative control over this memory, so he cannot taint it with his self-loathing. So we remember Bucky as his students do: with fondness and admiration. The tragedy lies in what his life might have been if he had seen himself in this same light. ...more Estate 1944, in Europa e nel Pacifico imperversa la guerra. A Newark, nel quartiere ebraico di Weequahic, Bucky Cantor, giovane insegnante di ginnastica e animatore del campo giochi del quartiere, si trova ad affrontare l'emergenza di una epidemia di poliomielite, che colpisce i suoi ragazzi uno dopo l'altro, senza che lui possa fare qualcosa per fermare quella carneficina. La paura e la sensazione di impotenza di fronte alla malattia che colpisce, talvolta uccidendo, e pi\u00f9 spesso lasciando il c Estate 1944, in Europa e nel Pacifico imperversa la guerra. A Newark, nel quartiere ebraico di Weequahic, Bucky Cantor, giovane insegnante di ginnastica e animatore del campo giochi del quartiere, si trova ad affrontare l'emergenza di una epidemia di poliomielite, che colpisce i suoi ragazzi uno dopo l'altro, senza che lui possa fare qualcosa per fermare quella carneficina. La paura e la sensazione di impotenza di fronte alla malattia che colpisce, talvolta uccidendo, e pi\u00f9 spesso lasciando il corpo devastato e invalido a vita, fa decidere Bucky a lasciare la citt\u00e0 e raggiungere la sua ragazza, per recarsi al campo estivo di Indian Hill, sulle vette delle Pocono Mountains. L\u00ec \u00e8 un vero paradiso, splendidi panorami e un lago dalle acque cristalline e, cosa pi\u00f9 importante, nessuna epidemia, nessun virus. Ma il paradiso presto diventa inferno, la malattia infatti fa capolino e travolge diversi ragazzi, lo stesso Bucky, che scopre anche di essere il portatore del contagio. Da allora, Bucky, l'atleta eccelso, l'uomo forte, di sani principi, rispettato ed amato da tutti, distrutto nel corpo e tormentato dalla \u201ccolpa\u201d, rinuncia a vivere, ad essere felice, rinuncia all'amore, egli non accetter\u00e0 mai l'idea che il virus che l'ha reso invalido e che ha devastato la vita di molti bambini sia una tragedia, una semplice e tragica fatalit\u00e0. La sua vita sar\u00e0 un'eterna ricerca di un perch\u00e9 senza risposta. Questa \u00e8 la nemesi cui Roth ci mette di fronte in questo romanzo breve, ma intenso. Nemesi intesa come indignazione di fronte ad una malattia che colpisce, che devasta e che fa sentire Bucky Cantor vittima impotente, in balia di una giustizia divina incomprensibile e ingiustificata. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i2Agdx... ...more Nemesis is the most un-Rothian of Roth novels. Roth's novels usually turn out of nowhere on some unforeseen twist that manages to completely flip the story around and this usually happens relatively early, is utterly preposterous, and is unbelievably brilliant. And yet in this novel, the twist doesn't happen until near the end, it is completely telegraphed throughout (or at least most of it is), and it is sort of just \"eh.\" Plus, the majority of the novel is just an in-depth, maudlin, and almost Nemesis is the most un-Rothian of Roth novels. Roth's novels usually turn out of nowhere on some unforeseen twist that manages to completely flip the story around and this usually happens relatively early, is utterly preposterous, and is unbelievably brilliant. And yet in this novel, the twist doesn't happen until near the end, it is completely telegraphed throughout (or at least most of it is), and it is sort of just \"eh.\" Plus, the majority of the novel is just an in-depth, maudlin, and almost Rockwell-ian picture of America in the middle of the 20th century and sappiness is not Roth's strong suit (he does it well enough, but who wants to read it?). As for the plot, the first 90% is basically a period piece about life in a Jewish neighborhood in New Jersey (the setting for most of Roth's novels) during the polio scare of the 1940s when life was simpler and the world was isolated. It is obviously well written and not un-entertaining (if that is a word), but it lacks that usual Rothian bite (until the end, but the payoff isn't even all that great). It's a decent read, just not one of his best. ...more Mi-a pl\u0103cut stilul autorului, modul de a descrie personajele, de a le pune \u00een eviden\u021b\u0103. Subiectul c\u0103r\u021bii este unul foarte trist. Pe l\u00e2ng\u0103 asta, via\u021ba eroului principal nici pe departe nu este mai bun\u0103, de\u0219i, la \u00eenceputul c\u0103r\u021bii este idolatrizat \u0219i considerat cel mai bun \u0219i grijuliu profesor de sport. Prin ce evenimente tragice trec elevii lui, \u00eel determin\u0103 s\u0103 se considere cel mai vinovat de epidemia care s-au n\u0103pustit asupra ora\u0219ului s\u0103u. Am descoperit un nou autor, voi mai citit pe viitor cel p Mi-a pl\u0103cut stilul autorului, modul de a descrie personajele, de a le pune \u00een eviden\u021b\u0103. Subiectul c\u0103r\u021bii este unul foarte trist. Pe l\u00e2ng\u0103 asta, via\u021ba eroului principal nici pe departe nu este mai bun\u0103, de\u0219i, la \u00eenceputul c\u0103r\u021bii este idolatrizat \u0219i considerat cel mai bun \u0219i grijuliu profesor de sport. Prin ce evenimente tragice trec elevii lui, \u00eel determin\u0103 s\u0103 se considere cel mai vinovat de epidemia care s-au n\u0103pustit asupra ora\u0219ului s\u0103u. Am descoperit un nou autor, voi mai citit pe viitor cel pu\u021bin \u00eenc\u0103 o carte de a lui. V\u0103 \u00eendemn \u0219i pe voi s\u0103-i \u00eencerca\u021bi operele. ...more<---C>Philip Roth</---C>", "Title": "Nemesis"},
